{"id": "13430845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13430845", "title": "1984 Network Liberty Alliance", "text": "1984 Network Liberty Alliance\n\n1984 Network Liberty Alliance is a loose group of software programmers, artists, social activists and militants, interested in computers and networks and considering them tools to empower and link the various actors of the social movement around the world. They are part of the hacktivism movement.\n\nThe group was formed in November 1984, during a \"debriefing\" workshop of the European Peace Marches on the Hartmannswillerkopf in Alsace, France, following the struggle against the installation of Pershing II and SS-20 nuclear missiles in Germany (Mutlangen). From 1978 to 1985, this European-wide peace movement had mobilized millions of citizens, protesting the arms race, the growth of military spending and joining in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.\n\nIn reference to George Orwell's novel 1984 and to the Rebel Alliance of the movie Star Wars, the group chose the (ironic) name 1984 Network Liberty Alliance. Founders are André Gorz, French philosopher, Dov Lerner, MIT computer graduate and disciple of Saul Alinsky, as well as Gregoire Seither, free radio activist, Frauke Hahn who had led the woman's resistance ('Commons Women') at Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp, David Szwarc from the Israeli Peace movement and Adama Drasiweni, computer graduate from the University of London, future founder of N'DA, Africa's first independent telecom company. \n\nOther members, like Australian co-founder of Indymedia Matthew Arnison, south-African anti-apartheid militant Peter Makema and Israeli peace activists Uri Avnery and Michel Warchawsky, joined later on. All were active in various social movements and peace initiatives in Europe and the USA.\n\nWhen Richard Stallman published the GNU Manifesto in March 1985 and called for participation and support, Dov Lerner and Gregor Seither started organizing regular meetings and workshops in order to train activists in the use of information technology and gather support for the Free Software movement. Adama Drasiweni, owner of a computer business in London, set up similar workshops in Kibera, a giant slum outside of Nairobi, Kenya. \n\nIn France, the Alliance used the network of the Maisons de l'Informatique that had been set up under the presidency of François Mitterrand as well as the computer labs of Paris University, who access to academic networks and Billboard Systems. The group ran a number of BBS, among them 'Pom-Pom', devoted to the Apple Macintosh and 'PeaceNet', an \"electronic pow-wow\" to help social activists and community organizers exchange information around the world, offering free mail accounts and file hosting services.\n\nVery soon the issues of free speech, software patents, civil rights and surveillance became some of the major topics addressed by the Alliance, the group being accused of hacking and fork software. One of the BBS run by the group 'Gaia rising', was accused by the German government of being a meeting point for radical environmental activists as well as anarchists. \n\nThe Liberty Alliance was particularly active in the popular worldwide resistance to Multilateral Agreement on Investments (MAI) in the mid-1990s, networking multiple groups and providing \"open cyberspaces\" for activists to share information and experience. \n\nIn the summer of 1998 the first \"alternative media centre\" was set up in a bus in Birmingham, United Kingdom during the Global Street Party, an international day of protest and festive actions coinciding with the 24th G8 Summit. The alternative media centres also provided interpretation and language services to international militant meetings, like during the July 1999 Global Carnival against Capitalism, or J18 London, a giant rally and party in the heart of the London City, meant as a counter-summit to the 25th G8 Summit in Köln, Germany. \n\nMembers of the team travelled to the WTO Ministerial Conference of 1999 in Seattle to set up an alternative media centre during the WTO Ministerial Conference of 1999 protest activity. The project joined with that of other media activists and, out of the necessity to bypass the corporate media and report on a WTO conference but also to show how one could bypass corporate software (Windows), the independent media agency Indymedia was born. \n\nLanguage diversity and the lack of interpreters led a number of activists to start thinking about a way to help militants from around the world to bridge the language barrier. Three years later, during the 27th G8 summit in Genoa, Italy, this would lead to the creation of the Babels network of volunteer interpreters and translators for linguistic diversity and social change.\n\nMembers of the Network Liberty Alliance have worked on social IT projects in North America (San Francisco Free Software movement, Chicago community cybercenter), Central America (Nicaragua, Guatemala, Panama), the Middle-East (Egypt, Occupied Palestine) as well as in the Asia Pacific region (Indonesia, Nouvelle-Calédonie, Australia, Papua Niugini) and Africa (Malawi, Mali, Cameroon).\n\nWhen the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, another member of the Alliance, Stefan Ostrowsky, transferred \"NET(te) Bude\" (a play on the word NET like network, and 'Nette Bude', nice crashpad in German), a community IT training centre to East-Berlin, thus becoming the first 'Cybercafe' behind the iron curtain. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8192236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8192236", "title": "Agrarian Justice", "text": "Agrarian Justice\n\nAgrarian Justice is the title of a pamphlet written by Thomas Paine and published in 1797, which proposed that those who possess cultivated land owe the community a ground rent, and that this justifies an estate tax to fund universal old-age and disability pensions, as well as a fixed sum to be paid to all citizens upon reaching maturity.\n\nIt was written in the winter of 1795–96, but remained unpublished for a year, Paine being undecided whether or not it would be best to wait until the end of the ongoing war with France before publishing. However, having read a sermon by Richard Watson, the Bishop of Llandaff, which discussed the \"Wisdom ... of God, in having made both Rich and Poor\", he felt the need to publish, under the argument that \"rich\" and \"poor\" were arbitrary divisions, not divinely created ones.\n\nIn response to the private sale of royal (or common) lands, Paine proposed a detailed plan to tax land owners once per generation to pay for the needs of those who have no land. This can be considered a precursor of the modern idea of citizen's dividend or basic income. The money would be raised by taxing all direct inheritances at 10%, and \"indirect\" inheritances – those not going to close relations – at a somewhat higher rate; this would, he estimated, raise around £5,700,000 per year in England.\n\nAround two-thirds of the fund would be spent on pension payments of £10 per year to every person over the age of fifty, which Paine had taken as his average adult life expectancy.\n\nMost of the remainder would be used to make fixed payments of £15 to every man and woman on reaching the age of twenty-one, legal majority.\n\nThe small remainder of the money raised still un-used would be used for paying pensions to \"the lame and blind\".\n\nFor context, the average weekly wage of an agricultural labourer was around 9 shillings, which would mean an annual income of about £23 for an able-bodied man working throughout the year.\n\nThe work is based on the contention that in the state of nature, \"the earth, in its natural uncultivated state... was the common property of the human race\"; the concept of private ownership arose as a necessary result of the development of agriculture, since it was impossible to distinguish the possession of improvements to the land from the possession of the land itself. Thus, Paine viewed private property as necessary while at the same time asserting that the basic needs of all humanity must be provided for by those with property, who have originally taken it from the general public. This in some sense is their \"payment\" to non-property holders for the right to hold private property.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30960278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30960278", "title": "Ali Musliyar", "text": "Ali Musliyar\n\nĀli Musliyār (1861–1922) Malayalam: ആലി മുസ്ലിയാർ, Arabic: عالي مسليار), born Erikkunnan Pālattu Mūlayil Āli was a local religoius leader in moplah riot against British rule in the 1921–22 Malabar riots in Madras Presidency, British India. He was a sufi of Qadiriyya Tariqah.\n\nMusliyār was an Masjid al-Haram educated Islamic scholar who served as the Imam of Tirurangadi Mosque from 1907 until his eventual execution for leading malabar rebellion at Coimbatore Prison. He was an active orator of the Khilafat Movement.\n\nĀli Musliyar was born in Nellikkunattu desom, Eranad taluk, Malabar district to Kunhimoitīn Molla and Kōtakkal Āmina. Kōtakkal Āmina was a member of the famous Maqdoom family of Ponnani, known for their religious scholarship. Musliyar's grandfather, Mūsa, was one of several \"Malappuram Martyrs\". Ali Musliyar began his education studying the Qur'an, tajwīd and the Malayālam language with Kakkadammal Kunnukammu Molla. He was sent to Ponnani Darse for further studies in religion and philosophy, under the tutelage of Shiekh Zainuddin Maqdum I (Akhir), which he successfully completed after 10 years.\n\nHe then went to Haram, Makkah (Mecca) for further education. Throughout this period, he was guided by several famous scholars, including Sayyid Ahmed Sahni Dahlan, Shiekh Muhammed Hisbullahi Makki, and Sayyid Husain Habshi. After spending seven years in Mecca, he went on to serve as the Chief Qasi in Kavaratti, Laccadive Islands.\n\nIn 1894, after learning of the slaying of his brother and several other family members, Musliyar returned to Malabar. He discovered that many of his relations and fellow students were lost during an 1896 riot. In 1907 he was appointed as the Chief Musliyar of the mosque at Tirurangadi, Eranad taluk.\n\nHe .became a Khilafat leader, on the introduction of the Khilafat movement, was installed as Khilafat King on the 22nd August 1921 at the Jamat Mosque and issued edicts proclaiming his assumption, of office and directing that in future market fees, ferry and toll revenue belong to the Khilafat Government.\n\nHe posed as a great leader of the people. Khilafat and non-co-operation meetings were held regularly under Ali Musaliar, and \"these constant preachings, combined with the resolution passed in the All-India Khilafat Conference at Karachi last July, led the ignorant Moplahs to believe that the end of the British Government in India was at hand. AH Musaliar and his lieutenants were making secret preparations for active and direct hostility against the British Government. News was spread that the Amir of Afghanistan was about to invade India and, with the assistance of Gandhi and Ali Brothers, would establish the Khilafat rule in the country. Khilafat volunteers were recruited and made to swear on the Holy Koran that they would be ready to die for the cause of the Khilafat. Ali Musaliar also made his volunteer corps parade throughout the locality, armed and in their uniforms, and such demonstrations added to the strength of this mischievous movement.\" (Public Prosecutor's speech, West Coast Spectator, October 6, 1920).\n\nThe beginnings of the future Khilafat army were in the 'making, and, at an anti-non-co-operation Meeting held at Ponnani on 24 July to counteract the effects of the Khilafat agitation, Ali Musaliar, \"turned up with his volunteer force of about 50 to 100 volunteers armed with big Khilafat knives and clad in Khilafat uniform, marching under a red flag, with shouts of Allah-Ho-Akbar. The volunteers rushed the Police in the bazaar.\" (Judgement in Case No. 7/21).\n\nNo evidence has yet been forthcoming to warrant the allegation regarding agrarian discontent, but it would appear that there was some trouble — what it was, it is not possible to say — between the Pookotur Moplahs and the Manager Tirumulpad of the Pookotur Estate. This lack of cordiality was aggravated by the Police search instituted at the instance of the Manager, and V. Mohammad exploited the Khilafat movement and the fractious temper of his co-religionists to wreak vengeance. The Moplahs demanded \" their wages at 9 o'clock at night, threatened the , manager and became very turbulent \" (Appendix VII) and in this jungly, remote and fanatical hamlet of Pookotur, the civil administration practically ceased to function from 2 August 1921.\n\nThe revolt of 1921–22 began following the police attempt to arrest 3 leaders, of which Ali Musaliar was one among them on 20 August 1921. Rumours were spread by Moplahs that the British troops had destroyed the Mampuram Mosque, and the Moplah gangs were brought out in huge numbers, estimated to be between 15,000 to 30,000. This led to large scale massacre of British troops, Hindu peasantry, rich Hindu landlords, and severe damage to the government infrastructure including buildings, rail bridges, roads etc throughout South Malabar.\n\nThat this was not a riot or a class revolt, but a planning Caliphate uprising is based on evidence as follows\n\nThe events of the day — 20 August — are summarised in the following Press Communique, dated 26 August 1921\nIt is not correct to say the khilafat fighters directed Hindus because of that they were being Hindus. They targeted all the people who were loyal to the British. Here on the one side stood Hindus and Muslims who supported the British and those who were against them. Muslims who supported the British were also not spared. And also we have no evidence the khilafatists raping women, tearing pregnant women's bellies to expose the new born.\n\n\"This attempt to make searches and arrests under legal warrants in due conformity with the law has been a signal for an outburst of fanaticism throughout Ernad, Walluvanad and Ponnani directed first against European Officials and Non-officials and latterly against Hindu Jenmis* and others. Public Offices have been looted everywhere, Manast and Kovilagams pillaged, Hindus murdered or forcibly converted, and the line cut to an extent, regarding which there is no information.\"\n\n\"It was an organised rising ; the rebels had manufactured war-knives and swords: collected firearms and swords from Hindu houses: also from Police stations: they wrecked the rail-road and cut telegraph lines, destroyed bridges, felled trees and blocked roads, dug trenches and lay in ambush to attack the passing troops : in fact, they acted as men who had gained some knowledge of modern war-fare, having learned these tactics from disbanded sepoys, who had seen service in Mesopotamia and who, having joined the rebels, instructed these Khilafat soldiery as to how they should proceed.\"\n\nThe widespread violence was led by Ali Musaliar and carried out by other Moplah families (Thangal families)\n\n\"The storm had burst with a vengeance. Civil administration came to a standstill: the sub-treasuries in the rebellion area were looted and lakhs of rupees carried away : public buildings and records were burnt : Munsiffs, Magistrates, and Police Officers had to seek refuge elsewhere : Police Officials were overwhelmed by rebel hordes and had to surrender their arms : Village Officials had left their villages; and, eventually, the train traffic stopped for a week between Shoranur and Calicut. Murders, dacoities, forced conversions and outrages on Hindu women became the order of the day. Hindu refugees in thousands poured into Calicut, Palghat, the Cochin State, and other places wending their weary way over hills and through jungles for safety from the lust and savagery of the Moplahs.\"\n\nAlthough the British army troops were quick to take the upper hand in many towns, a number of rebels initiated guerilla operations, forcing the British to deploy additional military units and introduce \"aggressive\" patrolling. The massacre, and attempted genocide of Hindus, and revolt against British came to an end in February 1922. Ali Musliyar was among a dozen leaders who were tried and sentenced to death. He was subsequently hanged at the Coimbatore Prison on 17 February 1922.\n\n"}
{"id": "30805664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30805664", "title": "Alpine Convention", "text": "Alpine Convention\n\nThe Alpine Convention is an international territorial treaty for the sustainable development of the Alps. The objective of the treaty is to protect the natural environment of the Alps while promoting its development. This Framework Convention involves the European Union and eight states (Austria, Germany, France, Italy, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Slovenia, and Switzerland). Opened to signature in 1991 and consisting of a Framework Convention, various implementation protocols and declarations, it entered into force in 1995, contributing to reinforce the recognition of special qualities and specific characteristics of the Alps, going beyond national boundaries and seeking international action.\n\nThe geographic area of the Alpine Convention covers a encompassing 5867 municipalities (data from 2013). The Alpine Range as defined by the Alpine Convention stretches across , through eight states, and its maximum width is , between Bavaria and Northern Italy.\nThe entire territories of Monaco and Liechtenstein are included. Austria and Italy together represent more than 55% of the Convention area. With France, these three states cover the three-quarter of the total surface of the Alpine Convention territory.\nIn 2013, the total population of this area was approaching 15 million inhabitants.\n\nThe Alpine Conference is the body that takes the most important decisions regarding the Convention. The Presidency of the Conference rotates between the Contracting parties, each holding the Presidency for a two-year period. For the period 2016–2018 the presidency is held by Austria.\n\nThe Conference also welcomes the following observers: European association of elected representatives from mountain regions, Alpe Adria, Arge Alp, CIPRA International, Club Arc Alpin, COTRAO – The Working Community of the Western Alps, Euromontana, FIANET, the International Steering Committee of the Network of Protected areas, the IUCN, the Managing Authority of the European Cooperation Programme Alpine Space, Pro Mont Blanc, UNEP and ISCAR.\n\nAll the Alpine Conferences:\n\nThe Permanent Committee is the executive body of the Alpine Conference. It is composed of all Member delegations and guarantees that the basis, the principles and the objectives of the Convention are implemented.\nPermanent committee analyses the information submitted by the Member States in implementing the Convention and reports to the Alpine Conference; prepares programmes for meetings of the Alpine Conference and proposes the agenda; sets up Working Groups that have to formulate Protocols and recommendations and it coordinates their activities; examines and harmonizes the contents of draft Protocols and makes proposals to the Alpine Conference.\n\nPermanent Committee meets twice a year; last meetings.\n\nThe Compliance Committee is the body that oversees implementation of the commitments and obligations taken under the Alpine Convention. Every 10 years, Contracting Parties have to publish a report concerning the implementation of the Convention and its protocols. The first report was adopted at the Xth Alpine Conference (March 2009).\n\nThis treaty dedicated to a specific territory is supported by a Permanent Secretariat, created in 2003, that has its main office in Innsbruck, Austria, and a branch office in Bolzano-Bozen, Italy. \nThe role of this Permanent Secretariat is to support all the other bodies instituted by the Alpine Convention by providing professional, logistic and administrative support, and by helping the Contracting parties, especially in implementing projects. The Secretariat is headed by a Secretary General, currently M. Markus Reiterer.\n\nPermanent Secretariat carries out different projects and activities for promotion of the Alpine Convention.\n\nThe Permanent Committee can establish Working Groups, with a 2-year-mandate, on topics it considers relevant to support the sustainable development within the Alps. The main responsibility of the Working groups and Platforms is the development of new protocols, recommendations and implementation measures, studies of ongoing developments and reports on the progress to the Alpine Conference and Permanent Committee.\n\nNine Working Groups and Platforms are currently active:\n\nWorking groups active in the past were:\n\nThe first meeting of interested countries took place in Berchtesgaden in December 1989. On the Framework Convention was signed by Austria, Germany, France, Italy, Liechtenstein and Switzerland. Slovenia signed on and Monaco on . Ratification occurred between 1994 and 1999.\nBelow is a brief overview about the signatures and the state of ratifications:\n\nTo date, Alpine states have signed all the protocols, except Monaco that didn't sign the protocol 'Energy' and the European Union that didn’t sign the protocols ‘Mountain Forests’ and ‘Settlement of disputes’. Regarding protocol ratification, Switzerland has not ratified any protocols yet.\n\nUnder the Convention, Member States should adopt specific measures in twelve thematic areas (Population and Culture, Spatial Planning, Air pollution, Soil Conservation, Water Management, Conservation of Nature and the Countryside, Mountain Farming, Mountain Forests, Tourism, Transport, Energy, and Waste Management). Of these areas, eight are now protocols annexed to the Framework Convention:\n\nTwo new protocols, not related to a specific thematic area, have since been adopted:\n\nThe Alpine Convention includes two Declarations that could not been turned into Protocols:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46442394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46442394", "title": "Alternatiba, Village of Alternatives", "text": "Alternatiba, Village of Alternatives\n\nAlternatiba (« Alternative », in Basque language) is a framework to mobilise society to face the challenges of climate change. Numerous Alternatiba events, which provide hundreds of alternatives in order to raise people's awareness and to stimulate behaviour change, have been or will be organised in over sixty different French and European cities.\n\nAdditionally, these initiatives aim to put pressure on politicians, especially before the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris (and the next United Nations Climate Change conferences).\n\nThe first Alternatiba, village of Alternatives, took place in Bayonne on 5–6 October 2013. It was initiated by the Basque environmental organization Bizi!, and reunited over 12.000 people. Following the Copenhagen Summit failure in 2009, they felt it was time to show \"European citizens that everything cannot be expected from political decisions at a higher level. We should start at the base, right where we live, with practical initiatives: eco-construction, short distribution chain, renewable energies, organic food, local money, etc. A list that should certainly not be restrictive in order to create a European citizen dynamic\".\n\nIn a festive and friendly atmosphere, the visitors were able to discover that \"solutions exist; they are already put into effect by thousands of associations, local communities and individuals. Even better: these alternatives contribute to a more pleasant society where solidarity, justice and people matter.”\n\nThe first village hosted 50 conferences and 15 thematic areas with workshops and stands, as well as a vast number of artistic and educational activities. Ninety organizations supported the event \"such as Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, SUD solidaires, Attac, Biocoop, the Nicolas Hulot Foundation as well as a thousand volunteers\" Stéphane Hessel became the sponsor of the event in 2012, followed by his wife Christiane Hessel after his death. She concluded the event with a speech calling for the construction of 10, 100, 1 000 Alternatibas all over the world.\n\nOn 22 February 2014, in Nantes, hundreds of people rallied for the first Alternatiba meeting on a European level. The initiators of the Bayonne Alternatiba presented the guidelines and emphasized the main principles. In the wake of this event, a European framework for Alternatiba was created.\n\nA Charter describing the shared values and common principles of all the Alternatibas was defined on 6 October 2013 and then revised after successive debates of the Alternatiba committees.\n\nDuring the summer of 2014, the Nantes Alternatiba committee proposed to create an \"Alternatiba\" anthem, recorded by a collective from Nantes with professional and amateur musicians.\n\nThe organization of the different Alternatiba collective reflect the experience gained by Bizi ! Cross-sectoral commissions decide on the location of the event, liaise with local governments and manage the funds. Organization relies on the work of a large number of volunteers.\n\nThematic committees concentrate on the content of the event and the organization of the thematic areas. At almost every Alternatiba, a climate area is introduced as well as different thematic areas concerning the use of natural and energy resources such as transport, energy, agriculture, food, and also areas dedicated to alternative lifestyles and culture, education, solidarity, shared goods, sustainable development, the necessity of international environmental justice, for example.\n\nin 2015 the Alternatiba Tour crossed six European countries, using 3- or 4-person bikes and joined by other cyclists along the 5,000-km route. The aim of the Tour was to popularize the Alternatiba initiatives and to start mobilizing citizens on the climate. The tour ended in the Île-de-France region at the Paris Alternatiba on 26–27 September 2015.\n\nAlternatiba collectives have currently been established in more than sixty cities, most of them in France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "392782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392782", "title": "American Farm Bureau Federation", "text": "American Farm Bureau Federation\n\nThe American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF), more commonly referred to as Farm Bureau (FB), is an independent, non-governmental, voluntary organization governed by and representing farm and ranch families united for the purpose of analyzing their problems and formulating action to achieve educational improvement, economic opportunity and social advancement and, thereby, to promote the national well-being. Farm Bureau is local, county, state, national and international in its scope and influence and is non-partisan, non-sectarian and non-secret in character. Farm Bureau is the voice of agricultural producers at all levels. AFBF is headquartered in Washington, D.C. There are 50 state affiliates and one in Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Farm Bureau movement officially started in 1911 when John Barron, a farmer who graduated from Cornell University, worked as an extension agent in Broome County, New York. He served as a \"Farm Bureau\" representative for farmers with the Binghamton, New York Chamber of Commerce. The effort was financed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Lackawanna Railroad. The Broome County Farm Bureau was soon separated from the Chamber of Commerce. Other farm bureaus on a county level formed across the country.\n\nIn 1914, with the passage of the Smith–Lever Act of 1914, the U.S. Congress agreed to share with the states the cost of programs for providing what had come to be called \"county agents\", who furnished farmers information on improved methods of animal husbandry and crop production developed by the agricultural colleges and agricultural experiment stations, which has evolved into the modern day Cooperative Extension Service, shaped in part by political opposition to agricultural subsidies.\n\nFarmers meeting in Saline County, Missouri, were the first to form a statewide Farm Bureau in 1915. The initial Bureaus had a social and educational function furthering the extension service efforts, and they have additionally developed a lobbying presence as well.\n\nThe American Farm Bureau was formally founded in 1919 in Chicago, Illinois. Its initial organization papers said:\n\nThe American Farm Bureau Federation relocated its headquarters from Park Ridge, Illinois, to Washington, D.C., in 2003.\n\nEach November since 1986, AFBF has reported the results of an informal survey on the average retail cost of a classic Thanksgiving dinner, including a 16-pound turkey and all the trimmings. In 2017, the cost was $49.12, \n\nPolicy is changing constantly, and it has a direct impact on farmers and ranchers. Having a voice – a seat at the table and an impact on policy – is critical. Beginning at the grassroots level and involving Farm Bureau members' advocacy efforts across the country, all of agriculture speaks with one voice through the American Farm Bureau Federation.\n\nThe American Farm Bureau Foundation for Agriculture works to build awareness, understanding and a positive perception of agriculture through education. The Foundation is creating agriculturally literate citizens through our educational programs, grants, scholarships, classroom curriculum, and volunteer training.\n\nThe Foundation also builds relationships with educational institutions to introduce agricultural education tools and resources, and encourages adoption at the community, county, state, and national level.\n\nFrom its beginnings nearly a century ago, Farm Bureau has existed to give members the tools they need to succeed. That can mean financial expertise, communication skills, advocacy opportunities, training and opportunities to network with and learn from fellow farmers and ranchers. It all adds up to helping America's farmers and ranchers stay strong and prosperous.\n\nFor nearly a century Farm Bureau members have joined together from coast to coast and become the Voice of Agriculture. Farm Bureau continues to evolve to serve the needs of members and their families on and off the farm or ranch. The Farm Bureau legacy includes leadership within local communities, advocacy on rural issues, public service and outreach, agriculture literacy and environmental initiatives that protect the environment and preserve its productive beauty for the next generation to utilize and enjoy.\n\nJoining Farm Bureau provides your family with exclusive discounts on national brands, plus valued member benefits.\n\nAFBF made The Hill's 2017 list of top association lobbying groups and was dubbed a \"farm policy powerhouse\" for tracking issues like crop insurance, voluntary labeling requirements for bioengineered foods and disease surveillance response. \"And that only scratches the surface of its work,\" according to The Hill.11\n\nAFBF supported the Fighting Hunger Incentive Act of 2014 (H.R. 4719; 113th Congress), a bill that would amend the Internal Revenue Code to permanently extend and expand certain expired provisions that provided an enhanced tax deduction for businesses that donated their food inventory to charitable organizations. AFBF argued that without the tax write-off, \"it is cheaper in most cases for these types of businesses to throw their food away than it is to donate the food\".\n\n\n\n11. The Hill, Top Lobbyists 2017: Grass roots, http://thehill.com/business-a-lobbying/top-lobbyists/358132-top-lobbyists-2017-associations\n\n"}
{"id": "27243620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27243620", "title": "Anti-Defamation League", "text": "Anti-Defamation League\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League (ADL; formerly known as the \"Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith\") is an international Jewish non-governmental organization based in the United States. The ADL states that it \"fights anti-Semitism and all forms of bigotry, defends democratic ideals, and protects civil rights for all\", doing so through \"information, education, legislation, and advocacy\".\n\nFounded in late September 1913 by the Independent Order of B'nai B'rith, a Jewish service organization in the United States, its original mission statement was \"to stop, by appeals to reason and conscience and, if necessary, by appeals to law, the defamation of the Jewish people\". Its ultimate purpose is \"to secure justice and fair treatment to all citizens alike, and to put an end forever to unjust and unfair discrimination against and ridicule of any sect or body of citizens\". The ADL has 29 offices in the United States and three offices in other countries, with its headquarters located in New York City. Abraham Foxman was the national director from 1987 for more than a quarter century. In November 2014, it was announced that Jonathan Greenblatt would succeed Foxman as national director in July 2015. The national chair is Barry Curtiss-Lusher.\n\nFounded in late September 1913 by B'nai B'rith, with Sigmund Livingston as its first leader, the ADL's charter states, The immediate object of the League is to stop, by appeals to reason and conscience and, if necessary, by appeals to law, the defamation of the Jewish people. Its ultimate purpose is to secure justice and fair treatment to all citizens alike and to put an end forever to unjust and unfair discrimination against and ridicule of any sect or body of citizens.\nThe Anti-Defamation League was founded by B'nai B'rith as a response to attacks on Jews; the Leo Frank affair was mentioned by Adolf Kraus when he announced the creation of the ADL.\n\nThe stated purpose of the ADL is to fight: anti-Semitism and all forms of bigotry (in the United States) and abroad, combat international terrorism, probe the roots of hatred, advocate before the United States Congress, come to the aid of victims of bigotry, develop educational programs, and serve as a public resource for government, media, law enforcement, and the public, all towards the goal of countering and reducing hatred.Historically, the ADL has opposed groups and individuals it considered to be anti-Semitic and/or racist, including: Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, Henry Ford, Father Charles Coughlin (leader of the Christian Front), the Christian Identity movement, the German-American Bund, neo-Nazis, the American militia movement and white power skinheads (although the ADL acknowledges that there are also non-racist skinheads). The ADL publishes reports on a variety of countries, regarding alleged incidents of anti-Jewish attacks and propaganda.\n\nThe ADL maintains that some forms of anti-Zionism and criticism of Israel cross the line into anti-Semitism. The Anti-Defamation League states:\nCriticism of particular Israeli actions or policies in and of itself does not constitute anti-Semitism. Certainly the sovereign State of Israel can be legitimately criticized just like any other country in the world. However, it is undeniable that there are those whose criticism of Israel or of \"Zionism\" is used to mask anti-Semitism.\n\nThe ADL gives out its Courage to Care Award to honor rescuers of Jews during the Holocaust.\n\nSince 2010, the ADL has published a list of the \"ten leading organizations responsible for maligning Israel in the US\", which has included ANSWER, the International Solidarity Movement, and Jewish Voice for Peace for its call for BDS.\n\nIn October 2010, the ADL condemned remarks by Ovadia Yosef that the sole purpose of non-Jews was to serve the Jews.\n\nWhen the anti-Mormon film \"The God Makers\" (1982) was produced, Rhonda M. Abrams, Central Pacific (San Francisco) Regional Director for the ADL, wrote a critical review, including the following statement:\n\nHad a similar movie been made with either Judaism or Catholicism as its target, it would be immediately denounced for the scurrilous piece that it is. I sincerely hope that people of all faiths will similarly repudiate \"The Godmakers\" as defamatory and untrue, and recognize it for what it truly represents - a challenge to the religious liberty of all.\n\nOne of the ADL's major focuses is religious freedom for people of all faiths. In the context of public schools, the ADL has taken the position that because creationism and intelligent design are religious beliefs, and the government is prohibited from endorsing the beliefs of any particular religion, they should not be taught in science classrooms: \"The U.S. Constitution guarantees the rights of Americans to believe the religious theories of creation (as well as other theories), but it does not permit them to be taught in public school science classes.\" Similarly, the ADL supports the legal precedent that it is unconstitutional for the government to post the Ten Commandments in courthouses, schools, and other public places: \"True religious liberty means freedom from having the government impose the religion of the majority on all citizens.\" The ADL has also condemned the public school Bible curriculum published by the National Council on Bible Curriculum in Public Schools, saying that it raises \"serious constitutional problems\" and \"advocates the acceptance of one faith tradition's interpretation of the Bible over another\". The ADL opposed Proposition 8 and supported the Matthew Shepard Act.\n\nThe ADL keeps track of the activities of various extremist groups and movements. According to ADL Director Abe Foxman, \"Our mission is to monitor and expose those who are anti-Jewish, racist, anti-democratic, and violence-prone, and we monitor them primarily by reading publications and attending public meetings …. Because extremist organizations are highly secretive, sometimes ADL can learn of their activities only by using undercover sources … [who] function in a manner directly analogous to investigative journalists. Some have performed great service to the American people—for example, by uncovering the existence of right-wing extremist paramilitary training camps—with no recognition and at considerable personal risk.\" A person apprehended in connection to the 2002 white supremacist terror plot had drawn a cartoon of himself blowing up the Boston offices of the ADL.\n\nThe ADL regularly releases reports on anti-Semitism and extremist activities on both the far left and the far right. For instance, as part of its Law Enforcement Agency Resource Network (L.E.A.R.N.), the ADL has published information about the Militia Movement in America and a guide for law enforcement officials titled \"Officer Safety and Extremists\". An archive of \"The Militia Watchdog\" research on U.S. right-wing extremism (including groups not specifically cited as anti-Semitic) from 1995 to 2000 is also available on the ADL website.\n\nIn the 1990s, some details of the ADL's monitoring activities became public and controversial, including the fact that the ADL had gathered information about some non-extremist groups. In 2013, J.M. Berger, a former nonresident fellow of the Brookings Institution, wrote that media organizations should be more cautious when citing the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) and ADL, arguing that they are \"not objective purveyors of data\".\n\nIn July 2017, the ADL announced that they would be developing profiles on 36 alt-right and alt-lite leaders.\n\nIn October 2008 the ADL reportedly assisted the US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) by providing, on request, information on Daniel Cowart and Paul Schlesselman and their associates and contacts, and on their ties to the Supreme White Alliance. Shortly thereafter the two men were arrested on charges of plotting to murder dozens of African Americans and plotting to assassinate US President-elect Barack Obama.\n\nThe ADL holds that it is important to remember the Holocaust, in order to prevent such an event from reoccurring. Along with sponsoring events and fighting Holocaust deniers and revisionists, the ADL has been active in urging action to stop modern-day ethnic cleansing and genocide in places such as Bosnia, Darfur, and Sudan.\n\nThe ADL spoke out against an advertising campaign by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) beginning in 2003 that equated meat-eating with the Holocaust. A press release from the ADL stated that, \"PETA's effort to seek 'approval' for their 'Holocaust on Your Plate' campaign is outrageous, offensive and takes chutzpah to new heights. Rather than deepen our revulsion against what the Nazis did to the Jews, the project will undermine the struggle to understand the Holocaust and to find ways to make sure such catastrophes never happen again.\" In May 2005, PETA apologized for its campaign, with PETA President Ingrid Newkirk stating that causing pain \"was never our intention, and we are deeply sorry\".\n\nThe national ADL issued a \"Statement on the Armenian Genocide\" on August 21, 2007. The statement declared, \"The consequences of those actions were indeed tantamount to genocide.\" Activists felt that the statement was not a full, unequivocal acknowledgment of the Armenian genocide, because the use of the qualifier \"tantamount\" was seen as inappropriate, and the use of the word \"consequences\" was seen as an attempt to circumvent the international legal definition of genocide by avoiding any language that would imply intent, a crucial aspect of the 1948 UN Genocide Convention definition. The ADL convened its national meeting in New York City in early November 2007 at which time the issue of the Armenian Genocide was discussed. Upon conclusion, a one-sentence press statement was issued that, \"The National Commission of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) today, at its annual meeting, decided to take no further action on the issue of the Armenian genocide.\"\n\nThe ADL supports the Jewish state, and has vociferously opposed resolutions such as the 1975 United Nations resolution (revoked in 1991) which equated Zionism with racism, and attempts to revive that formulation at the 2001 U.N. World Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa. The ADL also has expressed concern over Israeli legislative proposals that would stifle freedom of expression and undermine Israeli democracy.\n\nThe ADL honors individuals throughout the year for various reasons. On September 23, 2003, at its Tribute to Italy Dinner, the ADL awarded Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi the ADL's distinguished statesman award, an honor \"conferred on world leaders who exhibit a commitment to furthering the achievement of regional and world peace, and who possess a special commitment to promoting human and civil rights\". Berlusconi is also known for his staunch pro-Israel stance.\n\nIn 2006, the ADL condemned Senate Republicans in the United States for attempting to ban same-sex marriage with the Federal Marriage Amendment, and praised its demise, calling it \"discrimination\". That same year, the ADL warned that the debate over illegal immigration was drawing neo-nazis and anti-Semites into the ranks of the Minutemen Project.\n\nIn 1974, ADL national leaders Arnold Forster and Benjamin R. Epstein published a book called \"The New Anti-Semitism\" (New York, 1974), arguing that a new kind of anti-Semitism is on the rise. In 1982, ADL national leader Nathan Perlmutter and his wife, Ruth Ann Perlmutter, released a book entitled \"The Real Anti-Semitism in America\" (New York, 1982). In 2003, ADL's national director Abraham Foxman published \"Never Again? The Threat of the New Anti-Semitism\" (San Francisco, 2003), where, on page 4, he states: \"We currently face as great a threat to the safety and security of the Jewish people as the one we faced in the 1930s—if not a greater one.\"\n\nIn 2010, during a hearing for Florida House Bill 11 (Crimes Against Homeless Persons), which was to revise the list of offenses judged to be hate crimes in Florida by adding a person's homeless status, the League lobbied against the bill, which subsequently passed in the House by a vote of 80 to 28 and was sent to the Senate, taking the position that adding more categories to the list would dilute the effectiveness of the law, which already includes race, religion, sexual orientation, disability, and age.\n\nThe ADL supports Comprehensive and DREAM Act legislation that would provide conditional permanent residency to certain illegal aliens of good moral character who graduate from U.S. high schools, arrived in the United States as minors, and lived in the country continuously for at least five years prior to the bill's enactment.\n\nThe ADL has spoken out against McCarthyism.\n\nOn June 18, 2004, the ADL issued a news release about the University of California Irvine (UCI) Muslim Students Union in which the student group had invited speakers to campus who made public declarations of support for Hamas, advocated suicide bombings and called for the destruction of Israel. For graduation, Muslim Students Union members chose to wear green (the traditional colour of Islam) graduation stoles bearing the \"Shahada\", the Islamic declaration of faith. The ADL's press release explained that the Shahada is a declaration of faith that has been closely identified with Palestinian terrorists, and said that suicide bombers connected to the Palestinian group Hamas wear green armbands and headbands inscribed with the \"Shahada\" as a symbol of their movement, and stated, \"We are troubled that members of the (UCI) Muslim Students Union have chosen to display symbolism that is closely identified with Palestinian terrorist groups and that can be especially offensive to Jewish students.\"\n\nThe ADL has publicly opposed anti-Islamic organizations, like Stop Islamization of America and Stop Islamization of Europe, and activists, such as Pamela Geller and David Yerushalmi, describing them as \"anti-Muslim bigots\".\n\nIn 1997, the \"National Center for Black-Jewish Relations\" of Dillard University, a historically black university in New Orleans, awarded the director of the ADL, Abraham H. Foxman, with the first Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. – Donald R. Mintz Freedom and Justice Award.\n\nIn 2004, the ADL became the lead partner in the \"Peace and Diversity Academy\", a new New York City public high school with predominantly black and Hispanic students.\n\nIn celebration of Black History Month, the ADL created and distributed lesson plans to middle and high school teachers about Shirley Chisholm (1924–2005), the first black woman elected to the US Congress, and an important civil rights leader.\n\nThe ADL has also publicly charged certain African Americans with anti-Semitism:\n\n\nADL's New England Regional Office has also established a faith-based initiative called \"The Interfaith Youth Leadership Program\", better known as \"Camp If\", or Camp Interfaith. Involving teenagers of the Christian, Jewish, and Islamic faiths, the camp brings the teens together for a week at camp where the teens bond and learn about each other's cultures. The camp has emerged as a new attempt to foster good relations between younger members of the Abrahamic faiths.\n\nSince the 1930s, the ADL has been gathering information and publishing reports on whatever it identifies as antisemitism, racism, and prejudice, and on anti-Jewish, anti-Israel, racist, anti-democratic, violent, and extremist individuals and groups. As a result, the organization amassed what it once called a \"famous storehouse of accurate, detailed, unassailable information on extremist individuals and organizations\". Over the decades the ADL has assembled thousands of files.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the ADL, along with the American Jewish Committee, coordinated American Jewish groups across the country in monitoring the activities of the German-American Bund and its pro-Nazis, nativist allies in the United States. In many instances, these community-based defense organizations paid informants to infiltrate these groups and report on what they discovered. The longest-lived and most effective of these American Jewish resistance organizations was the Los Angeles Jewish Community Committee (LAJCC), which was backed financially by the Jewish leaders of the motion picture industry. The day-to-day operations of the LAJCC were supervised by a Jewish attorney, Leon L. Lewis. Lewis was uniquely qualified to combat the rise of Nazism in Los Angeles, having served as the first national secretary of the Anti-Defamation League in Chicago from 1925-1931. From 1934-1941, the LAJCC maintained its undercover surveillance of the German-American Bund, the Silver Shirts and dozens of other pro-Nazi, nativist groups that operated in Los Angeles. Partnering with the American Legion in Los Angeles, the LAJCC channeled eyewitness accounts of sedition onto federal authorities. Working with the ADL, Leon Lewis and the LAJCC played a strategic role in counseling the McCormack-Dickstein Committee investigation of Nazi propaganda activities in the United States (1934) and the Dies Committee investigation of \"un-American activities\" (1938-1940). In their final reports to Congress, both Committees found that the sudden rise in political antisemitism in the United States during the decade was due, in part, to the German government's support of these domestic groups.\n\nOne of its sources for the 1980s and 1990s was Roy Bullock, an intelligence gatherer for the South African apartheid regime, a private collector of information. He amassed files on 10,000–12,000 individuals and 600 organizations and provided them to the ADL as a secretly paid independent contractor for over 32 years. Bullock often wrote letters to various groups and forwarded copies of their replies to the ADL, clipped articles from newspapers and magazines, and maintained files on his computer. He also used less orthodox, and possibly illegal, methods such as combing through trash and tapping into White Aryan Resistance's phone message system in order to find evidence of hate crimes. Some of the information he obtained and then passed on to the ADL came from confidential documents (including intelligence files on various Nazi groups and driver's license records and other personal information on nearly 1,400 people) that were given to him by San Francisco police officer and former CIA agent Tom Gerard.\n\nOn April 8, 1993, police seized Bullock's computer and raided the ADL offices in San Francisco and Los Angeles, California. A search of Bullock's computer revealed that he had compiled files on 9,876 individuals and more than 950 groups across the political spectrum. Many of Bullock's files concerned groups that did not fit the mold of extremist groups, hate groups, and organizations hostile to Jews or Israel that the ADL would usually be interested in. Along with files on the Ku Klux Klan, White Aryan Resistance, Islamic Jihad, and the Jewish Defense League were data on the NAACP, the African National Congress (ANC), the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), the United Auto Workers, the AIDS activist group ACT UP, \"Mother Jones\" magazine, the TASS Soviet/Russian news agency, Greenpeace, Jews for Jesus, and the National Lawyers Guild; there were also files on politicians, including Democratic U.S. Representative Nancy Pelosi, former Republican U.S. Representative Pete McCloskey, and activist Lyndon LaRouche. Bullock told investigators that many of those were his own private files, not information he was passing on to the ADL. An attorney for the ADL stated that, \"We knew nothing about the vast extent of the files. Those are not ADL's files. … That is all [Bullock's] doing.\" As for its own records, the ADL indicated that just because it had a file on a group, that did not mean that the ADL opposed the group. The San Francisco district attorney at the time accused the ADL of conducting a national \"spy network\", but dropped all accusations a few months later, judging it to be a force for good. The ADL offered the district attorney's office a sum of $75,000 to fight bigotry, which was accepted.\n\nIn the weeks following the raids, twelve civil rights groups led by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee and the National Lawyers Guild, filed a lawsuit demanding that the ADL release its surveillance information and end its investigations, as well as ordering it to pay punitive damages. The lawsuit fueled speculation that the organization was waging a secret campaign to repress political dissent. The plaintiffs' attorney, former Representative McCloskey, claimed that the information the ADL gathered constituted an invasion of privacy. The ADL, while distancing itself from Bullock, countered that it is entitled like any researcher or journalist to research organizations and individuals. Richard Cohen, legal director of the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Alabama, stated that like journalists, the ADL's researchers \"gather information however they can\" and welcome disclosures from confidential sources, saying \"they probably rely on their sources to draw the line\" on how much can legally be divulged. Bullock admitted that he was overzealous, and that some of the ways in which he gathered information may have been illegal.\n\nThe lawsuit was settled out of court in 1999. The ADL agreed to pay $175,000 for the court costs of the groups, two of them Jewish, that sued it, promised that it would not seek information from sources it knew could not legally disclose such information, consented to remove sensitive information like criminal records or Social Security numbers from its files, and spent $25,000 in order to further relations between the Jewish, Arab and black communities. When the case was settled, Hussein Ibish, director of communications for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC), claimed that the ADL had gathered data \"systematically in a program whose clear intent was to undermine civil rights and Arab-American organizations\". ADL national director Abraham Foxman called the ADC's claims \"absolutely untrue\", saying that, \"if it were true, they would have won their case\", and noted that no court found the ADL guilty of any wrongdoing. The ADL released a statement saying that the settlement \"explicitly recognizes ADL's right to gather information in any lawful and constitutionally protected manner, which we have always done and will continue to do\". John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt claim that the organization, rather than defending Jews from bigotry, was targeting individuals critical of Israel or of U.S. support for Israel.\n\nDuring congressional testimony in 1990, the organization was implicated in the use of Executive Order 12333 to facilitate some of its intelligence initiatives. This compounded on a partnership with the FBI expanded by William Webster beginning in 1978 and resulting in a memorandum in 1985 in which the \"agencies\" would cooperate through liaisons with direct lines of communication.\n\nA case which has been compared to the Bullock case was that of James Mitchell Rosenberg, aka Jim Anderson. Rosenberg/Anderson was an undercover operative of the ADL who acted as an \"agent provocateur\", posing as a racist right-wing paramilitary extremist. He appeared in this role as part of a TV documentary entitled \"Armies of the Right\" which premiered in 1981. Rosenberg was arrested that same year in New York for carrying an unregistered firearm in public view. In 1984, ADL fact-finding director Irwin Suall identified Rosenberg as an ADL operative in a court deposition.\n\nIn 2007, Abraham Foxman came under criticism for his stance on the Armenian Genocide. The ADL had previously described it as a \"massacre\" and an \"atrocity\", but not as a \"genocide\". Foxman had earlier opposed calls for the U.S. Government to recognise it as a \"genocide\". \"I don't think congressional action will help reconcile the issue. The resolution takes a position; it comes to a judgement\", said Foxman in a statement issued to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency. \"The Turks and Armenians need to revisit their past. The Jewish community shouldn't be the arbiter of that history, nor should the U.S. Congress, and \"a Congressional resolution on such matters is a counterproductive diversion and will not foster reconciliation between Turks and Armenians, and may put at risk the Turkish Jewish community and the important multilateral relationship between Turkey, Israel, and the United States\".\n\nIn early August 2007, complaints about the Anti-Defamation League's refusal to acknowledge the Armenian Genocide led to Watertown, Massachusetts's, unanimous town council decision to end its participation in the ADL's \"No Place for Hate\" campaign. (Watertown is known for its Armenian population.) Also in August 2007, an editorial in \"The Boston Globe\" criticized the ADL by saying that, \"as an organization concerned about human rights, it ought to acknowledge the genocide against the Armenian people during World War I, and criticize Turkish attempts to repress the memory of this historical reality\". Then on August 17, 2007, the ADL fired its regional New England director, Andrew H. Tarsy, for breaking ranks with the main organization and for saying that the ADL should recognize the genocide. In an August 21, 2007, press release, the ADL changed its position and acknowledged the genocide, but maintained its opposition to congressional resolutions aimed at recognizing it. Foxman wrote, \"the consequences of those actions\", by the Ottoman Empire against Armenians, \"were indeed tantamount to genocide\". The Turkish government condemned the league's statement. Andrew H. Tarsy was rehired by the league on August 27, though he has since chosen to step down from his position.\n\nThe ADL was criticized by many in the Armenian community including \"The Armenian Weekly\" newspaper, in which writer Michael Mensoian stated:\n\nAfter Foxman's capitulation, the New England ADL pressed the organization's national leadership to support a congressional resolution acknowledging the genocide. After hours of closed-door debate at the annual national meeting in New York, the proposal was ultimately withdrawn. The organization issued a statement saying it would \"take no further action on the issue of the Armenian genocide\". The ADL had earlier received direct pressure from the Turkish Foreign ministry. Tarsy submitted his resignation on December 4.\n\nIn the subsequent months, some human rights commissions in other Massachusetts communities decided to follow Watertown's lead and withdraw from the ADL's No Place for Hate anti-discrimination program.\n\nOn May 13, 2016, Jonathan Greenblatt, the ADL's CEO for less than a year, published a blog post in which he wrote \"What happened to the Armenian people was unequivocally genocide\" and urged the U.S. to take a position recognizing the Armenian genocide.\n\nIn 1989, the linguist and left-wing commentator and activist Noam Chomsky characterized the ADL as having lost entirely its focus on civil rights issues in order to become solely an advocate for Israeli policy; he held that the ADL cast all left-wing opposition to Israeli interests as antisemitism.\n\nIn 2006, the ADL, in addition to the American Jewish Committee, was criticized by academic Tony Judt for allegedly pressuring the Polish Consulate-General in New York to cancel a scheduled appearance by Judt at Network 20/20, a non-profit organization that rents space from the consulate. In an interview with the \"New York Sun\", Foxman claimed that the group \"had nothing to do with the cancellation\", insisting that the ADL only called to ask if the event was being sponsored by the Polish government. Polish Consul General Krzysztof Kasprzyk suggested in an interview with \"The Washington Post\" that calls by the ADL and the American Jewish Committee were \"exercising a delicate pressure\". In reference to the role of the ADL and the American Jewish Committee in organizing the cancellations, Judt told \"The Washington Post\": \"This is serious and frightening, and only in America—not in Israel—is this a problem. These are Jewish organizations that believe they should keep people who disagree with them on the Middle East away from anyone who might listen.\" The ADL denied the charges. According to Foxman, \"I think they made the right decision... He's taken the position that Israel shouldn't exist. That puts him on our radar.\"\n\nIn 1994, the ADL became embroiled in a dispute between neighbors in Denver, Colorado. Upon the involvement of the ADL, the petty quarreling of next door neighbors, initially about garden plants and pets, quickly escalated into both civil and criminal court cases involving charges of anti-Semitism, and counter charges of defamation.\n\nCandace and Mitchell Aronson, Jewish next door neighbors of William and Dorothy Quigley, used a Radio Shack police scanner to listen in on the cordless telephone conversations of Mr. and Mrs. Quigley. When the Aronsons heard the Quigleys discuss a campaign to drive them from the neighborhood with \"Nazi scare tactics\", the Aronsons contacted the Denver office of the ADL. Upon the advice of the ADL, the Aronsons then recorded the Quigley's private telephone conversations. The conversations included discussions of putting pictures of oven doors on the Aronsons' home (a reference to the Holocaust), burning one of the Aronson children, and wishing that the Aronsons had been killed in a suicide bombing. (The Quigleys later indicated that these remarks were not anti-Semitic, and were only intended to be sick humor.) Neither the Aronsons nor the ADL were aware that Congress had amended federal wiretap law which made it illegal to record conversations from a cordless telephone, to transcribe the material and to use the transcriptions for any purpose.\n\nNot knowing about the new federal law, the Aronsons used the tapes as the basis for a federal civil lawsuit against the Quigleys in December 1994. A day later, Saul Rosenthal, Regional Director of the ADL, appeared at a news conference with the Aronsons in which he described their encounter with the Quigleys as \"a vicious anti-Semitic campaign\", based solely on conversations he and associates had with the Aronsons. Later that day, Mr. Rosenthal expanded on his remarks in an interview on a Denver radio talk show.\n\nTwo days later, Jefferson County prosecutors used the tapes as the basis for filing criminal charges against the Quigleys.\n\nThe Quigleys became the target of scorn and ridicule. They received threats, and were forced to hire security guards for their home. A package of dog feces was mailed to their house. When they attended church, their priest openly chastised them in his sermon. The family was forced to shop in other towns, to avoid being recognized. Mr. Quigley's career with United Artists suffered serious damage.\n\nUpon investigation, and after assistant district attorney Steven Jensen heard on the tapes the context of Mrs. Quigley's remarks, all charges but one, a misdemeanor traffic violation against Mr. Quigley, were dropped. The district attorney issued two letters of apology to the Quigleys, saying he found no evidence that either had engaged in \"anti-Semitic conduct or harassment\".\n\nThe Quigleys brought a lawsuit against the ADL, Rosenthal, the Aronsons, and two ADL volunteer attorneys. The two attorneys agreed to pay $350,000 to the Quigleys in settlement of their claims. The Quigley settlement with the Aronsons did not involve a cash payment. The Quigleys maintained their action against the ADL and Rosenthal, which was heard in federal court. A federal jury returned a verdict of $10 million in favor of the Quigleys. The ADL appealed.\n\nAccording to an April 13, 2001, article in \"The Forward\", upon hearing the appeal, a federal judge \"lambasted the ADL for labeling a nasty neighborhood feud as an anti-Semitic event\" and upheld most of Quigley's $10 million lawsuit for defamation. According to a report in the \"Rocky Mountain News\", with accrued interest, the judgment amounted to more than $12 million.\n\nIn 1974, ADL national leaders Arnold Forster and Benjamin R. Epstein published a book called \"The New Anti-Semitism\" (New York, 1974), arguing that a new kind of anti-Semitism is on the rise. In 1982, ADL national leader Nathan Perlmutter and his wife, Ruth Ann Perlmutter, released a book entitled \"The Real Anti-Semitism in America\" (New York, 1982). In 2003, ADL's national director Abraham Foxman published \"Never Again? The Threat of the New Anti-Semitism\" (San Francisco, 2003), where on page 4 he states: \"We currently face as great a threat to the safety and security of the Jewish people as the one we faced in the 1930s—if not a greater one.\"\n\nReviewing Forster and Epstein's work in \"Commentary\", Earl Raab, founding director of the Nathan Perlmutter Institute for Jewish Advocacy at Brandeis University, argued that a \"new anti-Semitism\" was indeed emerging in America, in the form of opposition to the collective rights of the Jewish people, but he criticized Forster and Epstein for conflating it with anti-Israel bias. Allan Brownfeld writes that Forster and Epstein's new definition of antisemitism trivialized the concept by turning it into \"a form of political blackmail\" and \"a weapon with which to silence any criticism of either Israel or U.S. policy in the Middle East\", while Edward S. Shapiro, in \"A Time for Healing: American Jewry Since World War II\", has written that, \"Forster and Epstein implied that the new anti-Semitism was the inability of Gentiles to love Jews and Israel enough\".\n\nNorman Finkelstein claims that organizations such as the Anti-Defamation League have brought forward charges of new anti-Semitism at various intervals since the 1970s, \"not to fight antisemitism, but rather to exploit the historical suffering of Jews in order to immunize Israel against criticism\". \"The Washington Post\" has noted that the ADL has repeatedly accused Finkelstein of being a \"Holocaust denier\", and that \"these charges have proved baseless\".\n\nADL is an advocate for gun control legislation. The ADL supported the District of Columbia before the US Supreme Court in \"District of Columbia v. Heller\" which argued that the city's ban on the possession of handguns and any functional firearms, even for self-defense in the home is not prohibited by the Second Amendment. The League urged the Court to ensure that states retain the ability to keep guns out of the hands of \"violent bigots\".\n\nGun rights group Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership (JPFO) has been highly critical of the Anti-Defamation League. In pamphlets such as \"Why Does the ADL Support Nazi-Based Laws?\", and \"JPFO Facts vs. ADL Lies\", the JPFO has accused the ADL of undermining the welfare of the Jewish people by promoting gun control. In a 2007 handbill, the JPFO accused ADL Director Abraham Foxman of knowingly supporting the \"use of Nazi gun control laws in America\". Foxman has written about the JPFO: \"Anti-Semitism has a long and painful history, and the linkage to gun control is a tactic by Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership to manipulate the fear of anti-Semitism toward their own end.\"\n\nOn July 28, 2010, the ADL issued a statement in which it expressed opposition to the Park51 Community Center, which sponsors planned to build near the World Trade Center site in New York. The ADL stated, \"The controversy which has emerged regarding the building of a Community Center at this location is counterproductive to the healing process. Therefore, under these unique circumstances, we believe the City of New York would be better served if an alternative location could be found.\" The ADL denounced what it saw as bigoted attacks on the project. Foxman opined that some of those who oppose the mosque are \"bigots\", and that the plan's proponents may have every right to build the mosque at that location. Nevertheless, he said that building the mosque at that site would unnecessarily cause more pain for families of some victims of 9/11.\n\nThis opposition to the Community Center led to criticism of the statement from various parties, including one ADL board member, the American Jewish Committee, the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York, Rabbi Irwin Kula, columnists Jeffrey Goldberg and Peter Beinart, the Interfaith Alliance, and the Shalom Center. In an interview with \"The New York Times\" Abe Foxman published a statement in reaction to criticism. In protest of ADL's stance, CNN host Fareed Zakaria returned the Hubert H. Humphrey First Amendment Freedoms Prize the ADL awarded him in 2005. ADL chair Robert G. Sugarman responded to a critical \"The New York Times\" editorial writing, \"we have publicly taken on those who criticized the mosque in ways that reflected anti-Muslim bigotry or used the controversy for that purpose\" and stating that the ADL has combated Islamophobia.\n\nMark Arax, a former \"Los Angeles Times\" writer and current \"Salon\" writer of Armenian descent, strongly criticized the role of the ADL in American Armenian Genocide denial. In 2007, he spoke with Abraham Foxman, who said:\n\nArax later wrote on this: \"I almost had to revisit his website to make sure that the ADL was still in the business of fighting not only anti-Semitism, but \"bigotry and extremism\", and \"securing justice and fair treatment to all.\" When Arax pointed out that the genocide had been documented as a fact by many prominent historians, and that Congress recognizes all sorts of people's history, including resolutions commemorating the victims of the Holocaust, Foxman replied: \"You're not suggesting that an Armenian Genocide is the same as the Holocaust, are you?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "265567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265567", "title": "Apartment", "text": "Apartment\n\nAn apartment (American English), flat (British English) or unit (Australian English) is a self-contained housing unit (a type of residential real estate) that occupies only part of a building, generally on a single storey. There are many names for these overall buildings, see below. The housing tenure of apartments also varies considerably, from large-scale public housing, to owner occupancy within what is legally a condominium (strata title or commonhold), to tenants renting from a private landlord (see leasehold estate).\n\nBoth words refer to a self-contained residential unit, i.e. one with its own front door, kitchen, toilet (room) and bathroom. In some parts of the world, the word \"apartment\" refers to a purpose-built unit in a building, whereas the word \"flat\" means a converted unit in an older building, usually a big house. In other places the terms are interchangeable.\n\nThe term \"apartment\" is favored in North America (although in some cities \"flat\" is used for a unit which is part of a house containing two or three units, typically one to a floor). In the UK, the term apartment is more usual in professional real estate and architectural circles where otherwise the term \"flat\" is used commonly, but not exclusively, for an apartment on a single level (hence a 'flat' apartment). \n\nIn some countries the word \"unit\" is a more general term referring to both apartments and rental business suites. The word 'unit' is generally used only in the context of a specific building; e.g., \"This building has three units\" or \"I'm going to rent a unit in this building\", but not \"I'm going to rent a unit somewhere\".\n\nSome buildings can be characterized as 'mixed use buildings', meaning part of the building is for commercial, business, or office use, usually on the first floor or first couple of floors, and one or more apartments are found in the rest of the building, usually on the upper floors.\n\nTenement law refers to the feudal basis of permanent property such as land or rents. It may be found combined as in \"Messuage or Tenement\" to encompass all the land, buildings and other assets of a property.\n\nIn the United States, some apartment-dwellers own their units, either as co-ops, in which the residents own shares of a corporation that owns the building or development; or in condominiums, whose residents own their apartments and share ownership of the public spaces. Most apartments are in buildings designed for the purpose, but large older houses are sometimes divided into apartments. The word \"apartment\" denotes a residential unit or section in a building. In some locations, particularly the United States, the word connotes a rental unit owned by the building owner, and is not typically used for a condominium.\n\nIn England and Wales, some flat owners own shares in the company that owns the freehold of the building as well as holding the flat under a lease. This arrangement is commonly known as a \"share of freehold\" flat. The freehold company has the right to collect annual ground rents from each of the flat owners in the building. The freeholder can also develop or sell the building, subject to the usual planning and restrictions that might apply. This situation does not happen in Scotland, where long leasehold of residential property was formerly unusual, and is now impossible.\n\nBachelor apartment, one-bedroom, etc.; see below.\n\nApartment buildings are multi-story buildings where three or more residences are contained within one structure. Such a building may be called an \"apartment building\", \"apartment complex\", \"flat complex\", \"block of flats\", \"tower block\", \"high-rise\" or, occasionally, \"mansion block\" (in British English), especially if it consists of many apartments for rent. A high-rise apartment building is commonly referred to as a \"residential tower\", \"apartment tower\", or \"block of flats\" in Australia.\n\nA high-rise building is defined by its height differently in various jurisdictions. It may be only residential, in which case it might also be called a tower block, or it might include other functions such as hotel, offices, or shops. There is no clear difference between a tower block and a skyscraper, although a building with fifty or more stories is generally considered a skyscraper. High-rise buildings became possible with the invention of the elevator (lift) and cheaper, more abundant building materials. Their structural system usually is made of reinforced concrete and steel.\n\nA low-rise building and mid-rise buildings have fewer storeys, but the limits are not always clear. Emporis defines a low-rise as \"an enclosed structure below 35 metres [115 feet] which is divided into regular floor levels.\" The city of Toronto defines a mid-rise as a building between 4 and 12 stories.\n\nIn American English, the distinction between rental apartments and condominiums is that while rental buildings are owned by a single entity and rented out to many, condominiums are owned individually, while their owners still pay a monthly or yearly fee for building upkeep. Condominiums are often leased by their owner as rental apartments. A third alternative, the cooperative apartment building (or \"co-op\"), acts as a corporation with all of the tenants as shareholders of the building. Tenants in cooperative buildings do not own their apartment, but instead own a proportional number of shares of the entire cooperative. As in condominiums, cooperators pay a monthly fee for building upkeep. Co-ops are common in cities such as New York, and have gained some popularity in other larger urban areas in the U.S.\n\nIn British English the usual word is \"flat\", but \"apartment\" is used by property developers to denote expensive 'flats' in exclusive and expensive residential areas in, for example, parts of London such as Belgravia and Hampstead. In Scotland, it is called a block of flats or, if it is a traditional sandstone building, a \"tenement\", a term which has a negative connotation elsewhere.\n\nAustralian English and New Zealand English traditionally used the term \"flat\" (although it also applies to any rental property), and more recently also use the terms \"unit\" or \"apartment\". In Australia, a 'unit' refers to flats, apartments or even semi-detached houses. In Australia, the terms \"unit\", \"flat\" and \"apartment\" are largely used interchangeably. Newer high-rise buildings are more often marketed as \"apartments\", as the term \"flats\" carries colloquial connotations. The term condominium or condo is rarely used in Australia despite attempts by developers to market it.\n\nIn South African English, an apartment is usually a single level rental area that is a part of a larger building and can be entered from inside the building through a separate door leading off either a wind tunnel or entrance hall/lobby that is shared with other occupants of the building.\n\nIn Malaysian English, \"flat\" often denotes a housing block of two rooms with walk-up, no lift, without facilities, typically five storeys tall, and with outdoor parking space, while \"apartment\" is more generic and may also include luxury condominiums.\n\nIn Japanese English loanwords (\"Wasei-eigo\"), the term \"apartment\" (\"apaato\") is used for lower-income housing and \"mansion\" (\"manshon\") is used for high-end apartments; but both terms refer to what English-speakers regard as an apartment (or condominium) and not the level of luxury of a mansion in English parlance. See Housing in Japan. \"Danchi\" is the Japanese word for a large cluster of apartment buildings of a particular style and design, typically built as public housing by government authorities.\n\nThe smallest self-contained apartments are referred to as studio, efficiency or bachelor apartments in the US, or studio flat in the UK. These units usually consist of a large single main room which acts as the living room, dining room and bedroom combined and usually also includes kitchen facilities, with a separate bathroom. In Korea, the term \"one room\" (\"wonroom\") refers to a studio apartment.\n\nA bedsit is a UK variant on single room accommodation: a bed-sitting room, probably without cooking facilities, with a shared bathroom. A bedsit is not self-contained and so is not an apartment or flat as this article uses the terms; it forms part of what the UK government calls a House in multiple occupation\n\nMerriam-Webster defines a garden apartment in American English as \"a multiple-unit low-rise dwelling having considerable lawn or garden space\" The apartment buildings are often arranged around courtyards that are open at one end. Such a garden apartment shares some characteristics of a townhouse: each apartment has its own building entrance, or shares that entrance via a staircase and lobby that adjoins other units immediately above and/or below it. Unlike a townhouse, each apartment occupies only one level. Such garden apartment buildings are almost never more than three stories high, since they typically lack elevators. However, the first \"garden apartment\" buildings in New York, USA, built in the early 1900s, were constructed five stories high. Some garden apartment buildings place a one-car garage under each apartment. The interior grounds are often landscaped.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines the use of \"garden flat\" in British English as \"a basement or ground-floor flat with a view of and access to a garden or lawn\", although its citations acknowledge that the reference to a garden may be illusory. \"Garden flat\" can serve simply as a euphemism for a basement. The large Georgian or Victorian townhouse was built with an excavated subterranean space around its front known as an area, often surrounded by cast iron railings. This lowest floor housed the kitchen, the main place of work for the servants, with a \"tradesman's entrance\" via the area stairs. This \"lower ground floor\" (another euphemism) has proven ideal for conversion to a self-contained \"garden flat\". One American term for this arrangement is an English basement.\n\nGenerally on the lowest floor of a building.\n\nWhen part of a house is converted for the ostensible use of the owner's family member, the self-contained dwelling may be known as an \"in-law apartment\", \"annexe\", or \"granny flat\", though these (sometimes illegally) created units are often occupied by ordinary renters rather than the landlord's relative. In Canada these are commonly located below the main house and are therefore \"basement suites\". Another term is an \"accessory dwelling unit\", which may be part of the main house, or a free-standing structure in its grounds.\n\nMaisonette (from the French word for \"little house\") has no strict definition, but the OED suggests \"A part of a residential building which is occupied separately, usually on more than one floor and having its own outside entrance.\" This differs from flats, which are usually reached through shared entrance doors, stairs or corridors.\n\nDiscounting the \"usually\", a maisonette could encompass Tyneside flats, pairs of single-storey flats within a two-storey terrace. Their distinctive feature is their use of two separate front doors onto the street, each door leading to a single flat. \"Maisonette\" could also stretch to cottage flats, also known as 'Four-in-a-block flats', a style of housing common in Scotland.\n\nThe vast majority of apartments are on one level, hence \"flat\". Some, however, have two storeys, joined internally by stairs, just as many houses do. One term for this is \"maisonette\", as above. Some public housing in the United Kingdom was designed as scissor section flats. On a grander level, penthouses may have more than one storey, to emphasise the idea of space and luxury.\n\nTwo storey units in new construction are sometimes referred to as \"townhouses\".\n\n\"Duplex\" refers to two separate units with a common demising wall or floor-ceiling assembly.\n\nDuplex description can be different depending on the part of the country but generally has two to four dwellings with a door for each and usually two front doors close together but separate - referred to as 'duplex' indicating the number of units, not the number of floors, as in some areas of the country they are often only one story.\n\nIn the United States, regional forms have developed, see vernacular architecture. In Milwaukee, a Polish flat or \"raised cottage\" is an existing small house that has been lifted up to accommodate the creation of a basement floor housing a separate apartment, then set down again, thus becoming a modest pair of dwellings. In the Sun Belt, boxy small apartment buildings called dingbats, often with carports below, sprang up from the 1950s.\n\nGroups of more than two units have corresponding names (Triplex, etc.). Those buildings that have a third storey are known as triplexes. See Three-decker (house).\n\nThis type of apartment developed in North America during the middle of the 20th century. The term initially described a living space created within a former industrial building, usually 19th century. These large apartments found favor with artists and musicians wanting accommodation in large cities (New York for example) and is related to unused buildings in the decaying parts of such cities being occupied illegally by people squatting.\n\nThese loft apartments were usually located in former highrise warehouses and factories left vacant after town planning rules and economic conditions in the mid 20th century changed. The resulting apartments created a new bohemian lifestyle and are arranged in a completely different way from most urban living spaces, often including workshops and art studio spaces. As the supply of old buildings of a suitable nature has dried up developers have responded by constructing new buildings in the same aesthetic with varying degrees of success.\n\nAn industrial, warehouse, or commercial space converted to an apartment is commonly called a \"loft\", although some modern lofts are built by design.\n\nAn apartment located on the top floor of a high-rise apartment building.\n\nIn Russia, a communal apartment («коммуналка») is a room with a shared kitchen and bath. A typical arrangement is a cluster of five or so room-apartments with a common kitchen and bathroom and separate front doors, occupying a floor in a pre-Revolutionary mansion. Traditionally a room is owned by the government and assigned to a family on a semi-permanent basis.\n\nA \"serviced apartment\" is any size space for residential living which includes regular maid and cleaning services provided by the rental agent. Serviced apartments or serviced flats developed in the early part of the 20th century and were briefly fashionable in the 1920s and 30s. They are intended to combine the best features of luxury and self-contained apartments, often being an adjunct of a hotel. Like guests semi-permanently installed in a luxury hotel, residents could enjoy the additional facilities such as house keeping, laundry, catering and other services if and when desired.\n\nA feature of these apartment blocks was quite glamorous interiors with lavish bathrooms but no kitchen or laundry spaces in each flat. This style of living became very fashionable as many upper-class people found they could not afford as many live-in staff after the First World War and revelled in a \"lock-up and leave\" life style that serviced apartment hotels supplied. Some buildings have been subsequently renovated with standard facilities in each apartment, but serviced apartment hotel complexes continue to be constructed. Recently a number of hotels have supplemented their traditional business model with serviced apartment wings, creating privately owned areas within their buildings - either freehold or leasehold.\n\nApartments may be available for rent furnished, with furniture, or unfurnished into which a tenant moves in with their own furniture. Serviced apartments, intended to be convenient for shorter stays, include soft furnishings and kitchen utensils, and maid service.\n\nLaundry facilities may reside in a common area accessible to all building tenants, or each apartment may have its own facilities. Depending on when the building was built and its design, utilities such as water, heating, and electricity may be common for all of the apartments, or separate for each apartment and billed separately to each tenant. (Many areas in the US have ruled it illegal to split a water bill among all the tenants, especially if a pool is on the premises.) Outlets for connection to telephones are typically included in apartments. Telephone service is optional and is almost always billed separately from the rent payments. Cable television and similar amenities also cost extra. Parking space(s), air conditioning, and extra storage space may or may not be included with an apartment. Rental leases often limit the maximum number of residents in each apartment.\n\nOn or around the ground floor of the apartment building, a series of mailboxes are typically kept in a location accessible to the public and, thus, to the mail carrier. Every unit typically gets its own mailbox with individual keys to it. Some very large apartment buildings with a full-time staff may take mail from the mailman and provide mail-sorting service. Near the mailboxes or some other location accessible by outsiders, a buzzer (equivalent to a doorbell) may be available for each individual unit. In smaller apartment buildings such as two- or three-flats, or even four-flats, rubbish is often disposed of in trash containers similar to those used at houses. In larger buildings, rubbish is often collected in a common trash bin or dumpster. For cleanliness or minimizing noise, many lessors will place restrictions on tenants regarding smoking or keeping pets in an apartment.\n\nIn more urban areas, apartments close to the downtown area have the benefits of proximity to jobs and/or public transportation. However, prices per square foot are often much higher than in suburban areas.\n\nMoving up from studio flats are one-bedroom apartments, in which a bedroom is separate from the rest of the apartment, followed by two-bedroom, three-bedroom, etc. apartments. (Apartments with more than three bedrooms are rare.)\n\nSmall apartments often have only one entrance. Large apartments often have two entrances, perhaps a door in the front and another in the back, or from an underground or otherwise attached parking structure. Depending on the building design, the entrance doors may be connected directly to the outside or to a common area inside, such as a hallway or a lobby.\n\nIn most American West Coast cities, the need for resisting earthquakes at a low building cost results in the construction of many low-rise apartments of wooden frames with thin plaster-board based exterior and interior dry walls, despite sometimes being on as many as three or four levels.\n\nThe Puebloan peoples of what is now the Southwestern United States have constructed large, multi-room dwellings, some comprising more than 900 rooms, since the 10th century.\n\nIn the Classic Period Mesoamerican city of Teotihuacan, apartments were not only the standard means of housing the city's population of over 200,000 inhabitants, but show a remarkably even wealth distribution for the entire city, even by contemporary standards. Furthermore, the apartments were inhabited by the general populace as a whole, in contrast to other Pre-Modern socieites, where apartments were limited to housing the lower class members of the society, as with the somewhat contemporary Roman insulae.\n\nIn ancient Rome, the insulae (singular \"insula\") were large apartment buildings where the lower and middle classes of Romans (the plebs) dwelled. The floor at ground level was used for tabernas, shops and businesses, with living space on the higher floors. Insulae in Rome and other imperial cities reached up to ten or more stories, some with more than 200 stairs. Several emperors, beginning with Augustus (r. 30 BC-14 AD), attempted to establish limits of 20–25 m for multi-storey buildings, but met with only limited success. The lower floors were typically occupied by either shops or wealthy families, while the upper stories were rented out to the lower classes. Surviving Oxyrhynchus Papyri indicate that seven-story buildings even existed in provincial towns, such as in 3rd century Hermopolis in Roman Egypt.\n\nDuring the medieval Arabic-Islamic period, the Egyptian capital of Fustat (Old Cairo) housed many high-rise residential buildings, some seven stories tall that could reportedly accommodate hundreds of people. In the 10th century, Al-Muqaddasi described them as resembling minarets, and stated that the majority of Fustat's population lived in these multi-storey apartment buildings, each one housing more than 200 people. In the 11th century, Nasir Khusraw described some of these apartment buildings rising up to fourteen stories, with roof gardens on the top storey complete with ox-drawn water wheels for irrigating them.\n\nBy the 16th century, the current Cairo also had high-rise apartment buildings, where the two lower floors were for commercial and storage purposes and the multiple stories above them were rented out to tenants.\n\nHigh-rise apartment buildings were built in the Yemeni city of Shibam in the 16th century. The houses of Shibam are all made out of mud bricks, but about 500 of them are tower houses, which rise 5 to 11 stories high, with each floor having one or two apartments. Shibam has been called \"Manhattan of the desert\". Some of them were over high, thus being the tallest mudbrick apartment buildings in the world to this day.\n\nThe Hakka people in southern China adopted communal living structures designed to be easily defensible, in the form of Weilongwu (围龙屋) and Tulou (土楼). The latter are large, enclosed and fortified earth buildings, between three and five stories high and housing up to eighty families.\n\nIn London, by the time of the 2011 census, 52 per cent of all homes were flats. Many of these were built as Georgian or Victorian houses and subsequently divided up. Many others were built as council flats. Many tower blocks were built in the UK after the Second World War. A number of these have been demolished and replaced with low-rise buildings or housing estates.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the concept of the flat was slow to catch on amongst the British middle classes, which generally followed the north European standard of single-family houses dating far back into history. Those who lived in flats were assumed to be lower class and somewhat itinerant, renting for example a \"flat above a shop\" as part of a lease agreement for a tradesman. In London and most of Britain, everyone who could afford to do so occupied an entire house – even if this was a small terraced house - while the working poor continued to rent rooms in often overcrowded properties, with one (or more) families per room.\n\nDuring the last quarter of the 19th century, as wealth increased, ideas began to change. Both urban growth and the increase in population meant that more imaginative housing concepts would be needed if the middle and upper classes were to maintain a \"pied-à-terre\" in the capital. The traditional London town house was becoming increasingly expensive to maintain. For bachelors and unmarried women in particular, the idea of renting a modern mansion flat became increasingly popular.\n\nThe first mansion flats in England were:\n\nIn Scotland, the term \"tenement\" lacks the pejorative connotations it carries elsewhere, and refers simply to any block of flats sharing a common central staircase and lacking an elevator, particularly those constructed before 1919. Tenements were, and continue to be, inhabited by a wide range of social classes and income groups. Tenements today are bought by a wide range of social types, including young professionals, older retirees, and by absentee landlords, often for rental to students after they leave halls of residence managed by their institution. The National Trust for Scotland Tenement House (Glasgow) is a historic house museum offering an insight into the lifestyle of tenement dwellers, as it was generations ago.\n\nDuring the 19th century tenements became the predominant type of new housing in Scotland's industrial cities, although they were very common in the Old Town in Edinburgh from the 15th century, where they reached ten or eleven storeys and in one case fourteen storeys. Built of sandstone or granite, Scottish tenements are usually three to five storeys in height, with two to four flats on each floor. (In contrast, industrial cities in England tended to favour \"back-to-back\" terraces of brick.) Scottish tenements are constructed in terraces, and each entrance within a block is referred to as a \"close\" or \"stair\"—both referring to the shared passageway to the individual flats. Flights of stairs and landings are generally designated common areas, and residents traditionally took turns to sweep clean the floors, and in Aberdeen in particular, took turns to make use of shared laundry facilities in the \"back green\" (garden or yard). It is now more common for cleaning of the common ways to be contracted out through a managing agent or \"factor\".\n\nIn Glasgow, where Scotland's highest concentration of tenement dwellings can be found, the urban renewal projects of the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s brought an end to the city's slums, which had primarily consisted of older tenements built in the early 19th century in which large extended families would live together in cramped conditions. They were replaced by high-rise blocks that, within a couple of decades, became notorious for crime and poverty. The Glasgow Corporation made many efforts to improve the situation, most successfully with the City Improvement Trust, which cleared the slums of the old town, replacing them with what they thought of as a traditional high street, which remains an imposing townscape. (The City Halls and the Cleland Testimonial were part of this scheme.) National government help was given following World War I when Housing Acts sought to provide \"homes fit for heroes\". Garden suburb areas, based on English models, such as Knightswood, were set up. These proved too expensive, so a modern tenement, three stories high, slate roofed and built of reconstituted stone, was re-introduced and a slum clearance programme initiated to clear areas such as the Calton and the Garngad.\n\nPost Second World War, more ambitious plans, known as the Bruce Plan, were made for the complete evacuation of slums to modern mid-rise housing developments on the outskirts of the city. However, central government refused to fund the plans, preferring instead to depopulate the city to a series of New Towns. Again, economic considerations meant that many of the planned \"New Town\" amenities were never built in these areas. These housing estates, known as \"schemes\", came therefore to be widely regarded as unsuccessful; many, such as Castlemilk, were just dormitories well away from the centre of the city with no amenities, such as shops and public houses (\"deserts with windows\", as Billy Connolly once put it). High rise living too started off with bright ambition—the Moss Heights, built in the 1950s, are still desirable—but fell prey to later economic pressure. Many of the later tower blocks were poorly designed and cheaply built and their anonymity caused some social problems. The demolition of the tower blocks in order to build modern housing schemes has in some cases led to a re-interpretations of the tenement.\n\nIn 1970 a team from Strathclyde University demonstrated that the old tenements had been basically sound, and could be given new life with replumbing providing modern kitchens and bathrooms. The Corporation acted on this principle for the first time in 1973 at the \"Old Swan Corner\", Pollokshaws. Thereafter, \"Housing Action Areas\" were set up to renovate so-called slums. Later, privately owned tenements benefited from government help in \"stone cleaning\", revealing a honey-coloured sandstone behind the presumed \"grey\" tenemental facades. The policy of tenement demolition is now considered to have been short-sighted, wasteful and largely unsuccessful. Many of Glasgow's worst tenements were refurbished into desirable accommodation in the 1970s and 1980s and the policy of demolition is considered to have destroyed fine examples of a \"universally admired architectural\" style. The Glasgow Housing Association took ownership of the public housing stock from the city council on 7 March 2003, and has begun a £96 million clearance and demolition programme to clear and demolish many of the high-rise flats.\n\nIn 1839, the first New York City tenement was built, and soon became breeding grounds for outlaws, juvenile delinquents, and organized crime. Tenements, or their slum landlords, were also known for their price gouging rent. \"How the Other Half Lives\" notes one tenement district:\n\nBlind Man's Alley bear its name for a reason. Until little more than a year ago its dark burrows harbored a colony of blind beggars, tenants of a blind landlord, old Daniel Murphy, whom every child in the ward knows, if he never heard of the President of the United States. \"Old Dan\" made a big fortune--he told me once four hundred thousand dollars-- out of his alley and the surrounding tenements, only to grow blind himself in extreme old age, sharing in the end the chief hardship of the wretched beings whose lot he had stubbornly refused to better that he might increase his wealth. Even when the Board of Health at last compelled him to repair and clean up the worst of the old buildings, under threat of driving out the tenants and locking the doors behind them, the work was accomplished against the old man's angry protests. He appeared in person before the Board to argue his case, and his argument was characteristic. \"I have made my will,\" he said. \"My monument stands waiting for me in Calvary. I stand on the very brink of the grave, blind and helpless, and now (here the pathos of the appeal was swept under in a burst of angry indignation) do you want me to build and get skinned, skinned? These people are not fit to live in a nice house. Let them go where they can, and let my house stand.\" In spite of the genuine anguish of the appeal, it was downright amusing to find that his anger was provoked less by the anticipated waste of luxury on his tenants than by distrust of his own kind, the builder. He knew intuitively what to expect. The result showed that Mr. Murphy had gauged his tenants correctly.\n\nMany campaigners, such as Upton Sinclair and Jacob Riis, pushed for reforms in tenement dwellings. As a result, the New York State Tenement House Act was passed in 1901 to improve the conditions. More improvements followed. In 1949, President Harry S. Truman signed the Housing Act of 1949 to clean slums and reconstruct housing units for the poor.\n\nThe Dakota (1884) was one of the first luxury apartment buildings in New York City. The majority, however, remained tenements.\n\nSome significant developments in architectural design of apartment buildings came out of the 1950s and '60s. Among them were groundbreaking designs in the 860-880 Lake Shore Drive Apartments (1951), New Century Guild (1961), Marina City (1964) and Lake Point Tower (1968).\n\nIn the United States, \"tenement\" is a label usually applied to the less expensive, more basic rental apartment buildings in older sections of large cities. Many of these apartment buildings are \"walk-ups\" without an elevator, and some have shared bathing facilities, though this is becoming less common. The slang term \"dingbat\" is used to describe cheap urban apartment buildings from the 1950s and 1960s with unique and often wacky façades to differentiate themselves within a full block of apartments. They are often built on stilts, and with parking underneath.\n\nIn the United States, properties are typically in one of four property classes, denoted by a letter grade. These grades are used to help investors and real estate brokers speak a common language so they can understand a property's characteristics and condition quickly. They are as follows:\n\n\"Class A\"\nproperties are luxury units. They are usually less than 10 years old and are often new, upscale apartment buildings. Average rents are high, and they are generally in desirable geographic areas. White-collar workers live in them and are usually renters by choice.\n\n\"Class B\"\nproperties can be 10 to 25 years old. They are generally well maintained and have a middle class tenant base of both white and blue-collar workers. Some are renters by choice, and others by necessity.\n\n\"Class C\"\nproperties were built within the last 30 to 40 years. They generally have blue-collar and low- to moderate-income tenants, and the rents are below market. Many tenants are renters \"for life\". On the other hand, some of their tenants are just starting out and are likely to work their way up the rental scale as their income rises.\n\n\"Class D\"\nproperties house many Section 8 (government-subsidized) tenants. They are generally located in lower socioeconomic areas.\n\nApartments were popular in Canada, particularly in urban centres like Vancouver, Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, and Hamilton, Ontario in the 1950s to 1970s. By the 1980s, many multi-unit buildings were being constructed as condominiums instead of apartments, and both are now very common. In Toronto and Vancouver, high-rise apartments and condominiums have been spread around the city, giving even the major suburbs a skyline. The robustness of the condo markets in Toronto and Vancouver are based on the lack of land availability. The average cap rate in the Greater Toronto Area for Q3 2015 hit its lowest level in the last 30 years. The cap rate in Q3 2015 stood at 3.75 per cent, down from 4.2 per cent in Q2 2015 and down almost 50 per cent from the 6.3 per cent posted in Q3 2010.\n\nApartment buildings in Australia are typically managed by a body corporate or \"owners corporation\" in which owners pay a monthly fee to provide for common maintenance and help cover future repair. Many apartments are owned through strata title. Due to legislation, Australian banks will either apply loan to value ratios of over 70 per cent for strata titles of less than 50 square metres, the big four Australian banks will not loan at all for strata titles of less than 30 square metres. These are usually classified as studio apartments or student accommodation. Australian legislation enforces a minimum 2.4m floor-ceiling height which differentiates apartment buildings from office buildings.\n\nIn Australia, apartment living is a popular lifestyle choice for DINKY, yuppies, university students and more recently empty nesters, however, rising land values in the big cities in recent years has seen an increase in families living in apartments. In Melbourne and Sydney apartment living is sometimes not a matter of choice for the many socially disadvantaged people who often end up in public housing towers.\n\nAustralia has a relatively recent history in apartment buildings. Terrace houses were the early response to density development, though the majority of Australians lived in fully detached houses. Apartments of any kind were legislated against in the Parliament of Queensland as part of the Undue Subdivision of Land Prevention Act 1885.\n\nThe earliest apartment buildings were in the major cities of Sydney and Melbourne as the response to fast rising land values–both cities are home to the two oldest surviving apartment buildings in the country, Kingsclere in Potts Point, and The Canterbury Flats in St Kilda. Melbourne Mansions on Collins Street, Melbourne (now demolished), built in 1906 for mostly wealthy residents is believed by many to be the earliest. Today the oldest surviving self-contained apartment buildings are in the St Kilda area including the Fawkner Mansions (1910), Majestic Mansions (1912 as a boarding house) and the Canterbury (1914 - the oldest surviving buildings contained flats). Kingsclere, built in 1912 is believed to be the earliest apartment building in Sydney and still survives.\n\nDuring the interwar years, apartment building continued in inner Melbourne (particularly in areas such as St Kilda and South Yarra), Sydney (particularly in areas such as Potts Point, Darlinghust and Kings Cross) and in Brisbane (in areas such as New Farm, Fortitude Valley and Spring Hill).\n\nPost-World War II, with the Australian Dream apartment buildings went out of vogue and flats were seen as accommodation only for the poor. Walk-up flats (without a lift) of two to three storeys however were common in the middle suburbs of cities for lower income groups.\n\nThe main exceptions were Sydney and the Gold Coast, Queensland where apartment development continued for more than half a century. In Sydney a limited geography and highly sought after waterfront views (Sydney Harbour and beaches such as Bondi) made apartment living socially acceptable. While on the Gold Coast views of the ocean, proximity to the beach and a large tourist population made apartments a popular choice. Since the 1960s, these cities maintained much higher population densities than the rest of Australia through the acceptance of apartment buildings.\n\nIn other cities, apartment building was almost solely restricted to public housing. Public housing in Australia was common in the larger cities, particularly in Melbourne (by the Housing Commission of Victoria) where a huge number of hi-rise housing commission flats were built between the 1950s and 1970s by successive governments as part of an urban renewal program. Areas affected included Fitzroy, Flemington, Collingwood, Carlton, Richmond and Prahran. Similar projects were run in Sydney's lower socio economic areas like Redfern.\n\nIn the 1980s, modern apartment buildings sprang up in riverside locations in Brisbane (along the Brisbane River) and Perth (along the Swan River).\n\nIn Melbourne, in the 1990s, a trend began for apartment buildings without the requirement of spectacular views. As a continuation of the gentrification of the inner city, a fashion became New York \"loft\" style apartments (see above) and a large stock of old warehouses and old abandoned office buildings in and around the central business district became the target of developers. The trend of adaptive reuse extended to conversion of old churches and schools. Similar warehouse conversions and gentrification began in Brisbane suburbs such as Teneriffe, Queensland and Fortitude Valley and in Sydney in areas such as Ultimo. As supply of buildings for conversion ran out, reproduction and post modern style apartments followed. The popularity of these apartments also stimulated a boom in the construction of new hi-rise apartment buildings in inner cities. This was particularly the case in Melbourne which was fuelled by official planning policies (Postcode 3000), making the CBD the fastest growing, population wise in the country. Apartment building in the Melbourne metropolitan area has also escalated with the advent of the Melbourne 2030 planning policy. Urban renewal areas like Docklands, Southbank, St Kilda Road and Port Melbourne are now predominantly apartments. There has also been a sharp increase in the amount of student apartment buildings in areas such as Carlton in Melbourne.\n\nDespite their size, other smaller cities including Canberra, Darwin, Townsville, Cairns, Newcastle, Wollongong, Adelaide and Geelong have begun building apartments in the 2000s.\n\nToday, residential buildings Eureka Tower and Q1 are the tallest in the country. In many cases, apartments in inner city areas of the major cities can cost much more than much larger houses in the outer suburbs.\n\nSome Australian cities, such as Gold Coast, Queensland, are inhabited predominantly by apartment dwellers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43040226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43040226", "title": "Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project", "text": "Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project\n\nThe Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project (ACLED) is a project that collates data on political violence in developing states, from 1997 to the present. As of early 2015, ACLED has recorded over 90,000 individual events, with ongoing data collection focused on Africa. Data on South and South-East Asia are also available.\n\nACLED is directed by Prof. Clionadh Raleigh and operated by senior research manager Caitriona Dowd, both affiliated with the University of Sussex, while data collection involves several researchers. The dataset was introduced by Raleigh and co-authors in a 2010 paper in the \"Journal of Peace Research\". ACLED was originally hosted by the Peace Research Institute Oslo (but was, even at the time, distinct from the UCDP/PRIO Armed Conflict dataset) but later moved to an independent home. ACLED is now registered as an independent, non-governmental organization in the United States.\n\nACLED data contain information on the specific dates and locations of conflict events, the types of events, the groups involved, reported fatalities and changes in territorial control. ACLED covers political violence in all African countries starting from 1997 to the present, and South and South-East Asia in real-time. Data for non-African states are also available for the period 1997-2010, with the exception of Pakistan and Afghanistan, for which \"beta\" data collections are available for 2006-2009. Data collection involves a variety of sources including reports from developing countries and local media, humanitarian agencies, and research publications. A full account of definitions, practices, source materials and coding procedures are available in the Methodology section on ACLED website.\n\nData are updated in real-time and can be downloaded from the website. ACLED provides a codebook intended for users of the dataset and additional maps, trend charts and infographics that can be consulted in the Visuals section of the website. Real-time analysis of political violence can be also found on ACLED \"Crisis Blog\". ACLED data are also available under the \"Climate Change and African Political Stability\" section of the website of the Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law at the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nOver the past few years, several scholars have cited ACLED in their research on civil wars and political violence. ACLED has also been referenced in a number of reports published by development practitioners and humanitarian agencies, including the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, United Nations country offices, the United States State Department and the United States military.\n\nPolitical scientist, data analyst, and forecaster Jay Ulfelder blogged about his experience trying to use the ACLED to see if it added predictive power in estimating the probability of coups, and explained both how he approached the problem and why he eventually concluded that the ACLED data did not add predictive power for coup forecasting. However, 23 successful and unsuccessful changes in power through coups have occurred across Africa since 1997. Recent research suggests that coup risk is related to the size and stability of a leader's cabinet, and not episodes of political violence preceding coups. A post by Thomas Zeitzoff at the \"Political Violence at a Glance\" blog listed the ACLED as one of several \"high-profile datasets.\" Patrick Meier blogged about it at irevolution.net.\n\nACLED has been referenced by several news agencies in their reporting on recent conflict trends. These include pieces in \"The New York Times\", \"The Guardian\", the \"BBC\" \"National Geographic\", \"The Economist\", and \"The Atlantic\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5470621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5470621", "title": "Assize of Bread and Ale", "text": "Assize of Bread and Ale\n\nThe Assize of Bread and Ale () was a 13th-century law in high medieval England, which regulated the price, weight and quality of the bread and beer manufactured and sold in towns, villages and hamlets. It was the first law in British history to regulate the production and sale of food. At the local level, this resulted in regulatory licensing systems, with arbitrary recurring fees, and fines and punishments for lawbreakers (see amercement). In rural areas, the statute was enforced by manorial lords, who held tri-weekly court sessions.\n\nThe law was amended by the Bread Acts of 1822 and 1836, which stipulated that loaves should be sold by the pound, or multiple thereof, and finally repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1863 (26 & 27 Vict. c. 125).\n\nAn assize was originally a fixed sitting of a court or council. Under the Angevin monarchy its meaning developed to signify a law based upon \"agreed custom\".\n\nBread regulation was the most significant and long-lasting commercial law in medieval England. The first bread assize law dates back to the 13th century, but its origins are even older. This law can be traced back to proclamations from the reigns of Henry II and John that regulated the purchasing requirements of the royal household.\n\nThese assizes adjusted the weight of bread according to the price of wheat. The price of bread was always the same, even though the price of grain fluctuated. Instead, when the price of grain increased, the weight of bread was reduced accordingly. For every increase in the price of wheat, the weight of a loaf fell. The Assize of Bread and Ale set the price of ale and the weight for a farthing loaf of bread. The act reduced competition and was purportedly given at the request of the bakers of Coventry, embracing several ordinances of Henry III's predecessors.\n\nThe expensive equipment associated with brewing and baking, particularly the oven, created a commercial market for the goods. This resulted in a perceived need for regulations controlling quality and pricing, and checking weights, to avoid fraudulent activity by food providers.\n\nSome versions of the statute include an explanatory third paragraph which begins:\n\nThe assize presented an established scale, then of ancient standing, between the prices of wheat and of bread, providing that when the \"quarter\" (~240 L / 6.9 US bushel if the gallon is taken to be the wine gallon) of wheat was sold at twelve pence, the farthing loaf of the best white bread should weigh six pounds sixteen shillings (~2.5 kg / 5.6 lb avdp if the pound is taken to be the troy pound). It then graduated the weight of bread according to the price of wheat, and for every six pence added to the quarter of wheat, the weight of the farthing loaf was reduced; until, when the wheat was at twenty shillings a quarter, it directed the weight of the loaf to be six shillings and three pence (~120 g / 4.1 oz avdp).\n\nThe assize of bread was in force until the beginning of the 19th century, and was only then abolished in London.\n\nIn a similar manner, the assize regulated the price of the gallon of ale, by the price of wheat, barley, and oats, stating that,\n\nOver time, this uniform scale of price created opportunities for arbitrage that made it extremely inconvenient and oppressive; and by the statute 23 Hen. VIII c. 4 in the 16th century, it was enacted that ale-brewers should charge for their ale such prices as might appear convenient and sufficient in the discretion of the justices of the peace within whose jurisdiction where the ale-brewers lived. The price of ale was regulated by provisions like those stated above, and the quality was ascertained by officers of great antiquity, called \"gustatores cervisiae\", that is, \"aletasters\" or ale-conners, chosen annually in the court-leet of each manor, and were sworn \"to examine and assay the beer and ale, and to take care that they were good and wholesome, and sold at proper prices according to the assize; and also to present all defaults of brewers to the next court-leet.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844162", "title": "Bethel College (Kansas)", "text": "Bethel College (Kansas)\n\nBethel College is a four-year private Christian liberal arts college in North Newton, Kansas, United States. It is affiliated with the Mennonite Church USA.\n\nFounded in 1887 and conferring its first four-year degrees in 1912, Bethel is the oldest Mennonite college in North America. Starting in 1874, thousands of Russian Mennonites began arriving in Kansas. In 1882, having a century of experience running their own schools, they opened Emmental, a training school for teachers, between Newton and Goessel, Kansas. The school was moved to Halstead, Kansas, in 1883. A better site was found in North Newton, Kansas, and the cornerstone of the main building was laid on October 12, 1888. This structure, the current Administration Building, is on the National Register of Historic Places. The Administration Building has been on the Historic Register since March 16, 1972.\n\nThe Halstead school was closed for the 1892–1893 school year while it was relocated to the new site and reopened as Bethel College in 1893. Bethel College became the second institution of higher learning associated with the General Conference Mennonite Church (now known as the \"Mennonite Church USA\"), replacing Wadsworth Institute which had closed in 1878.\n\nDuring the 1880s, Kansas cities and towns competed with one another to create, build, and construct many institutions and buildings including colleges. On May 11, 1887, representatives of the Newton community and the Kansas Conference of Mennonites signed a charter for Bethel College to be built on a plot of about . Over a year later on October 12, 1888, around 2,500 people gathered on the property to lay the cornerstone of what is today the Administration Building of Bethel College. The building project took around five years to fully complete. The fund-raising to create the institution was slow, but on September 20, 1893 there was a service of dedication held for the building to be opened, and classes began.\n\nCornelius H. Wedel, a young teacher, was made Bethel College's first president. There were 98 students – 77 men and 21 women ages 13 to mid-30s – living on the west end of the main floor and the ground floor of the Administration Building. Wedel and his family lived on the east end of the Administration Building's main floor. The classrooms, chapel, and library of 600 volumes were located on the second floor. In those days, the students were up by five in the morning and in bed by ten at night. Each student worked two hours a day at a campus job. Student conduct was strictly monitored. Men and women were not allowed to be in the library during the same evenings; they alternated each evening. Five men, including the president, made up the first faculty. They taught classes in the Bible, church history, German, English, mathematics, science, and music. Bethel College was a bilingual college until early 1918, when the U.S. entered World War I. German was removed from the curriculum, but later reinstated: as of the 2011–2012 school year, two years of German were offered.\n\nThe Administration Building was the main campus structure until 1925 when the Science Hall was completed. The cornerstone for Memorial Hall was laid in 1938, and the building was completed in 1942. The Art Center has also been in place for many years. In 1952 the Mennonite Library and Archives was built. In 1979, the current student center/cafeteria was built. The newest building is the Thresher Stadium in the Thresher Sports Complex. The Krehbiel Science Center was completed in 2002.\n\nThere are three student residence halls located on campus. They are Haury Hall (completed in 1958 and expanded in 1963), Warkentin Court (completed in 1966), and the newer Voth Hall (completed in 2000).\n\nThe Luyken Fine Arts Center includes the Krehbiel Auditorium and Prairie Sky Stage for stage performances, lectures and events; the Robert W. Regier Art Gallery which hosts exhibits by local, regional, national and international artists, including Bethel alumni, in all types of media; and houses the music, drama and communication arts departments.\n\n the college president was John K. Sherriff.\n\nBethel's curriculum is founded on a general education program in the liberal arts and sciences, and is geared toward students of moderate to high academic ability. There are requirements for the study of religion, and a cross-cultural experience. The college offers majors in the traditional liberal arts disciplines and selected career areas, and accredited professional programs in nursing, social work, athletic training, and teacher education.\n\nBethel College teams are nicknamed the Threshers. The college is a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) and competes in the Kansas Collegiate Athletic Conference (KCAC). Men's sports include basketball, cross country, football, golf, soccer, tennis and track & field; while women's sports include basketball, cross country, golf, soccer, softball, tennis, track & field and volleyball.\n\nIn the 2006–07 season, three of Bethel's coaches were named conference Coach of the Year. The Threshers have won more than 55 conference titles. In 1998–99 six of the ten Thresher teams won conference championships. At Bethel College the athletes also compete academically; 89 student athletes have been named American Scholar Athletes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "338409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338409", "title": "Chaebol", "text": "Chaebol\n\nA chaebol (; ) is a large industrial conglomerate that is run and controlled by an owner or family in South Korea. A chaebol often consists of a large number of diversified affiliates, controlled by an owner whose power over the group often exceeds legal authority. The term is often used in a context similar to that of the English word \"conglomerate\". The term was derived from the Japanese. It was first used in English in 1984. There are several dozen large South Korean family-controlled corporate groups that fall under this definition.\n\nThe chaebol have also played a significant role in South Korean politics. In 1988, a member of a chaebol family, Chung Mong-joon, president of Hyundai Heavy Industries, successfully ran for the National Assembly of South Korea. Other business leaders also were chosen to be members of the National Assembly through proportional representation. Hyundai has made efforts to contribute to the thawing North Korean and South Korean relations, but not without controversy. Many South Korean family-run chaebols have been criticized for low dividend payouts and other governance practices that favor controlling shareholders at the expense of ordinary investors.\n\nThe word chaebol derived from the McCune–Reischauer romanization, \"chaebŏl\", of the Korean word \"jaebeol\" (, from \"jae\" \"wealth or property\" + \"beol\" \"faction or clan\" – also written with the same Chinese characters 財閥 as Zaibatsu in Japan). The word entered English use in the 1980s.\n\nSouth Korea's economy was small and predominantly agricultural well into the mid-20th century. However, the policies of President Park Chung Hee spurred rapid industrialization by promoting large businesses, following his seizure of power in 1961. The First Five Year Economic Plan by the government set industrial policy toward new investment, and the chaebol were to be guaranteed loans from the banking sector. The chaebol played a key role in developing new industries, markets, and export production, helping make South Korea one of the Four Asian Tigers.\n\nAlthough South Korea's major industrial programs did not begin until the early 1960s, the origins of the country's entrepreneurial elite were found in the political economy of the 1950s. Very few Koreans had owned or managed larger corporations during the Japanese colonial period. After the departure of the Japanese in 1945, some Korean businessmen obtained the assets of some of the Japanese firms, a number of which grew into the chaebol of the 1990s.\n\nThe companies, as well as certain other firms that were formed in the late 1940s and early 1950s, had close links with Syngman Rhee's First Republic, which lasted from 1948 to 1960. It is confirmed that many of these companies received special treatment from the government in return for kickbacks and other payments.\n\nWhen the military took over the government in 1961, its leaders announced that they would eradicate the corruption that had plagued the Rhee administration and eliminate \"injustice\" from society. Some leading industrialists were arrested and charged with corruption, but the new government realized that it would need the help of entrepreneurs if the government's ambitious plans to modernize the economy were to be fulfilled. A compromise was reached, under which many of the accused corporate leaders paid fines to the government. Subsequently, there was increased cooperation between corporate and government leaders in modernizing the economy.\n\nGovernment-chaebol cooperation was essential to the subsequent economic growth and astounding successes that began in the early 1960s. Driven by the urgent need to turn the economy away from consumer goods and light industries toward heavy, chemical, and import-substitution industries, political leaders and government planners relied on the ideas and cooperation of the chaebol leaders. The government provided the blueprints for industrial expansion; the chaebol realized the plans. However, the chaebol-led industrialization accelerated the monopolistic and oligopolistic concentration of capital and economically profitable activities in the hands of a limited number of conglomerates.\n\nPark used the chaebol as a means towards economic growth. Exports were encouraged, reversing Rhee's policy of reliance on imports. Performance quotas were established.\n\nThe chaebol were able to grow because of two factors: foreign loans and special favors. Access to foreign technology also was critical to the growth of the chaebol through the 1980s. Under the guise of \"guided capitalism,\" the government selected companies to undertake projects and channeled funds from foreign loans. The government guaranteed repayment should a company be unable to repay its foreign creditors. Additional loans were made available from domestic banks. In the late 1980s, the chaebol dominated the industrial sector and were especially prevalent in manufacturing, trading, and heavy industries.\n\nThe tremendous growth that the chaebol experienced, beginning in the early 1960s, was closely tied to the expansion of South Korean exports. Growth resulted from the production of a diversity of goods rather than just one or two products. Innovation and the willingness to develop new product lines were critical. In the 1950s and early 1960s, chaebol concentrated on wigs and textiles; by the mid-1970s and 1980s, heavy, defense, and chemical industries had become predominant. While these activities were important in the early 1990s, real growth was occurring in the electronics and high-technology industries. The chaebol also were responsible for turning the trade deficit in 1985 to a trade surplus in 1986. The current account balance, however, fell from more than US$14 billion in 1988 to US$5 billion in 1989.\n\nThe chaebol continued their explosive growth in export markets in the 1980s. By the late 1980s, the chaebol had become financially independent and secure, thereby eliminating the need for further government-sponsored credit and assistance.\n\nBy the 1990s, South Korea was one of the largest newly industrialized countries and boasted a standard of living comparable to industrialized countries.\n\nPresident Kim Young-sam began to challenge the chaebol, but it was not until the 1997 Asian financial crisis that the weaknesses of the system were widely understood. Of the 30 largest chaebol, 11 collapsed between July 1997 and June 1999. Initially, the crisis was caused by a sharp drop in the value of the currency and aside from immediate cash flow concerns for paying foreign debts, the lower cost ultimately helped the stronger chaebol expand their brands to Western markets, but the simultaneous decline of nearby export markets in Southeast Asia, which had been fueling growth made the large debts incurred, for what was now overcapacity, become fatal to many of the chaebol. The remaining chaebol also became far more specialized in their focus. For example, with a population ranked 26th in the world, before the crisis, the country had seven major automobile manufacturers. Afterward, only two major manufacturers remained intact though two additional continued, in a smaller capacity, under General Motors and Renault.\nThe chaebol debts were not only to state industrial banks but also to independent banks and their own financial services subsidiaries. The scale of the loan defaults meant that banks could neither foreclose nor write off bad loans without themselves collapsing, so the failure to service these debts quickly caused a systemic banking crisis, and South Korea turned to the IMF for assistance. The most spectacular example came in mid-1999, with the collapse of the Daewoo Group, which had some US$80 billion in unpaid debt. At the time, it was the largest corporate bankruptcy in history.\n\nInvestigations also exposed widespread corruption in the chaebol, particularly fraudulent accounting and bribery.\n\nStill, South Korea recovered quickly from the crisis, and most of the blame for economic problems was shifted to the IMF. The remaining chaebol have grown substantially since the crisis, but they have maintained far lower debt levels.\n\nIn 2014, the largest chaebol, Samsung, composed about 17% of the South Korean economy and held roughly US$17 billion in cash. However, recent financial statements of these chaebols actually show that chaebols are slowly losing power over either international competition or internal disruptions from newly emerging startups. Net profit/income of South Korea's top conglomerates has decreased from 2012 to 2015. Not only did their profits stop increasing, but certain chaebols such as LG, have been making losses and losing talent.\n\nSome chaebol are one large corporation while others have broken up into loosely connected groups of separate companies sharing a common name. Even in the latter case, each is almost always owned, controlled, or managed by the same family group.\n\nSouth Korea's chaebol are often compared with Japan's keiretsu business groupings, the successors to the pre-war zaibatsu. While the \"chaebol\" are similar to the \"zaibatsu\" (the words are cognates, from the same hanja or kanji), some major differences have evolved between chaebol and keiretsu:\n\nThe chaebol model is heavily reliant on a complex system of interlocking ownership. The owner of the chaebol, with the help of family members, family-owned charity and senior managers from subsidiaries, has to control only three of four public companies, who themselves control other companies that control subsidiaries. A good example of this practice would be the owner of Doosan, who controlled more than 20 subsidiaries with only a minor participation in about 5 companies.\n\nThe chairmen in charge of the chaebol possess a small portion of equity in the companies under the large umbrella of the chaebol but are very powerful in making decisions and have the ability to control all management. For example, Samsung owns 0.5% in the group's listed firms. That demonstrates a lack in the rule of law. The method that allows this type of possession is called cross-holding, which is a horizontal and vertical structure that enhances the control of the chairman.\n\nThe typical culture at one of these conglomerates is highly paternalistic in nature. Much of the environment is defined by the chairman who acts as a \"fatherly-figure\" to his subordinates. This can be traced back to the infusion of Neo-Confucian values that permeate Korean society. A chaebol head's demeanor towards his employee can be described as \"loving\" while maintaining \"sternness and a sense of responsibility\". Workers commit to long hours, most notably on weekends and holidays, in order to appease their superiors. Company outings and drinking sessions tend to be compulsory as to foster a sense of family and belonging among employees. Employers believe that enhancing a common bond between them would translate into prosperity and productivity for the company. Other practices that would be uncommon for Western workplaces to engage in include gift-giving to employees and arranging dates for workers in search of relationships or marriage. The chaebol are notoriously hierarchical. As such, it is unusual for an individual to challenge or question the decision-making of his or her boss. This dynamic adds to the culture that orients itself around whoever is in charge; but can lead to undesirable circumstances. For example, the Asiana flight 214 crash led critics to speculate that cultural factors prevented a pilot on board from aborting the low-speed landing and thus straying from his superior's commands. Promotion is rarely merit based. Rather, it is through order of age and time served to the conglomerate. This is reflected by the fact that most executives are far older than their employees. If a worker does not attain an executive or high-management role by the age of fifty, he or she is commonly forced into resignation. Again, this is attributable to the age-hierarchy dynamics in Korean Confucian culture. Loyalty to the firm is heavily emphasized at the chaebol. Signs of this is evident in standard recruiting process, where newly acquired employees undergo intense initiations. Activities in these tests include training camps and singing company unique songs that reiterate the production goals of the firm.\n\nEven though the chaebol system helped bring about rapid growth and helped Korea launch itself on the international stage, it caused negative impacts on the Korean economy:\n\nThe origins of the chaebol system in South Korea come as consequence of the Korean War. The war resulted in much destruction and halted industrial production, which led the government to print money to pay for the war and meet requirements of the United Nations forces for the Korean currency, all of which caused mass inflation. This inflation caused many commodity prices to double every six months.\n\nThe government had to react and so devised a plan in providing strong financial incentives to private companies between the 1960s and 1970s. It consisted on the government choosing select family businesses to distribute the incentives (imported raw materials, commodities, bank loans). The impact was immediate, and most of the businesses flourished rapidly. The protection of infant companies allowed them to develop because of the highly regulated market, which prevented foreign companies from entering. Many companies that were not in the circle of businesses saw the system as flawed and corrupted. While these problems resemble \"crony capitalism\" problems common in developing countries, corruption scandals have periodically occurred in all of the chaebol.\n\nBecause the government gave out incentives to help businesses, it had a lot of control over them. However, there was no way to ensure the businesses would use the incentives in an effective and efficient manner. In other words, there was no external monitoring system to monitor the chaebol and ensure that they were efficient in the allocation of resources. All businesses undertake internal market transactions, which constitute \"purchase and sale of intermediate inputs, the provision and receipt of loan collaterals, and the provision and receipt of payment guarantees among member firms in a business group\". There is the question of efficiency, especially in production and management. Therefore, the system of chaebol was not very transparent. Behind the scenes, businesses were provided with subsidiary financing and intragroup transactions. This allowed them easy loans to cover for their deficits, and prior to the 1997 crisis, huge debts had accumlated, many of which were hidden. That gave the illusion to the world that the system was flourishing into the 1990s.\n\nDuring the 1997 Asian financial crisis, bankers feared that the chaebol would go bankrupt so they allowed these businesses to roll over their loans each time they were unable to repay their debts. Many did not believe that the chaebol were capable of collapsing and that the more they borrowed, the safer they were.\n\nHowever, the theory was proven wrong when many businesses collapsed during the crisis. Since they were linked through debt guarantees, many of the companies fell in a chain reaction. The focus on capacity expansion created debt that was manageable when the economy was growing. However, when the economy stalled, debt-to-equity ratios became a huge problem.\n\nSince the crisis, the chaebols now have less debt and are less vulnerable to similar crises, as was demonstrated in the 2008 crisis. With the growth of the fewer remaining chaebols however, each now occupies a larger portion of the economy.\n\nThe protectionist policies and preferable government treatment granted the chaebol the ability to exhibit monopolistic behavior. The absence of a market free of intervention meant that \"true competition\" became a rarity in South Korea. Especially in the era prior to the IMF crisis, the only products available to the Korean people were those made by the chaebol. Therefore, the social fabric of the country lacked an entrepreneurship culture. Massive market concentration exists as is evident from the fact that 80% of the country's GDP is derived from the chaebol. The largest of the group, Samsung, exports 20% of South Korea's goods and services alone. Although no longer financially supported by the government, these firms have attained economies of scale on such a massive level that it is extremely difficult for a startup or small or medium enterprise (SME) to surmount the high barriers to entry. A majority of these smaller companies end up being acquired by the chaebol, only increasing their size and economic dominance. In recent years the trend of selling internationally has been seen among aspiring Korean entrepreneurs. Conversely, the chaebol have also been moving money abroad with the tacit endorsement of the South Korean government and investing in commercial enterprises, particularly in Koreatown Manhattan, New York City.\n\nTo this day, the chaebol maintain dominance across all industries. Reductions in tariffs and removal of trade regulations designed to protect Korean conglomerates has led to increasing competition from abroad. However, among domestic firms the chaebol have kept their market share intact. Most notably, Apple's entry into the smartphone market pressured rival Samsung into diversifying its revenue streams from overseas. All but 3 of the top 50 firms listed on the Korean Stock Exchange are designated as chaebol. Consequently, the chaebol have more bargaining power and oftentimes takes pricing action that squeezes both suppliers and consumers. Typically the firms down the supply chain fail to increase their profit margins enough to expand and thus never see growth. Collusion among the chaebol is commonplace. Price-fixing acts mean consumers expect to pay an inflated value for most goods and services. For instance, in 2012 Samsung and LG Electronics were fined for colluding to raise prices for home appliances.\n\nSince the inception of the chaebol, the government has been closely involved in its affairs. Many of the reforms enacted over the years, especially those under President Kim Dae-Jung, have cracked down on kickbacks and preferential treatment. Moreover, the state is no longer a majority shareholder of any chaebol. But their sheer size and wealth has been used to gain influence. For the most part, the government sees the function of the chaebol as crucial to the Korean economy. When President Lee Myung-Bak took office, he pardoned Samsung Group chairman Lee Kun-Hee for tax evasion. President Lee then proceeded to champion pro-chaebol deals, including a nuclear energy contract with the city of Abu Dhabi, and loosened laws preventing the conglomerates from owning financial services companies. Samsung's leader is not the only chaebol chairman to be excused from a crime conviction. Choi Tae-Won of SK Group, Chung Mong-Koo of Hyundai, Kim Seung-Youn of Hanwha, and Shin Dong-Bin of Lotte Group, are a few examples of chairmen who have been charged, convicted, or are currently serving a prison sentence for white collar crime. Accusations include, bribery, tax evasion, accounting fraud, embezzlement, and violent crime. Typically chairmen of the chaebol are pardoned. August 15 is recognized in South Korea as Liberation Day. This is when the president forgives the chairmen for their infractions in order to ensure they remain in power of their companies. In the rare case that an executive is sentenced to prison, as the CEOs of SK and CJ group were, it is typically a relatively light punishment of up to 4 years depending on the charge.\n\nCollusion between members of the chaebol and the government granted preferential statuses to the companies. The chaebol would funnel bribes to politicians and bureaucrats through slush funds and illegal donations. This could help maintain the government's position of power, allowing them to secure contracts for major government projects and provide favorable treatment to the donor firm. Examples of this type of corruption were widespread in the years leading up to the 1997 financial crisis. Many of the firms who benefited from this relationship were too indebted, had poor corporate governance, and were inefficient. There was a huge inflow of capital and bending of regulation in favor of these problematic firms. Hanbo Group, formerly South Korea's second largest steel-maker, is a good example of this. In the 1990s the company paid for special arrangements with high-ranking politicians so that it could secure contracts for large government projects over its competitors. Hanbo went bankrupt in the 1997 after defaulting on debt payments along with other governance issues. Numerous chaebol companies had similar private agreements with the government in this fashion. It would be most common in companies dealing with heavy industries or projects that involved government procurement and urban planning. In the past, most successful political elections were won with the support of the chaebol. Each time a new administration or regime stepped in, it would gear its policy platform towards chaebol revitalization. This was under the claim that in order to be a competitive economy more power must be given to the chaebol. In recent years, the leading political parties of South Korea have reversed their pro-large corporate stance to one of economic diversification.\n\nUnder Kim Dae-Jung and in the wake of the 1997 Asian Financial crisis, many reforms were made to the chaebol. Most of these changes pertained to corporate structure, transparency in financial reporting, corporate governance, and debt stabilization. In 1997, the IMF provided a bailout loan of $60 billion conditional on revision. Distressed financial institutions were to be closed down and those that were deemed viable were to be restructured and recapitalized by the levels it set forth. This affected the chaebol because it severely restricted its easy access to financing that led to over leveraged balance sheets. Lenient accounting practices and disclosure rules were to be strengthened and standardized for international practice. Hence, transparency was increased to what would be expected from a public company. The chaebol agreed to be subject to independent auditors and were obligated to provide consolidated financial statements on a regular basis.\n\nKim Dae-Jung enacted what is known as the \"Five Principles of Corporate Governance\". These were the enhancement of management transparency, strengthening owner-manager accountability, elimination of cross-debt guarantees among chaebol affiliates, improvement of capital structures, and consolidation of core business areas. In his plans, debt to equity ratios were to be below 200%. Subsidiaries of chaebol that were debt-laden or on the verge of bankruptcy were instructed to be either liquidated, sold, or put up for merger. Each chaebol-holding group had to break up its subsidiaries and operations so that they were more manageable. By the end of 1997, each had an average of 26.8 subsidiaries. It was hoped that if there were fewer activities, the quality of the remaining businesses would see improvement. Many unrelated branches to their core competencies were swiftly shed. If any of the conglomerates failed to meet the conditions by the set deadlines, strict sanctions would be passed against them. During the 2008 Financial crisis, many of these reforms ensured the quick recovery of the chaebol. Having had exposure to a massive recession before, the companies learned to cope better than those in foreign countries. With significantly healthier balance sheets and higher cash reserves, the chaebol were able to avoid any liquidity issues. Moreover, with fewer subsidiaries they were less exposed to the full scope of the crisis and thus helped keep the Korean economy afloat.\n\nPresident Roh Moo Hyun pushed for even more extensive reform. His administration passed stringent regulations on fraudulent accounting, stock manipulation, and irregular wealth succession. The chaebol were forced to improve objectivity on their board of directors. Rather than having the decision-makers be insiders, affiliates, or family members, the chaebol were expected to hold representation who reflected the interests of investors, especially minority shareholders who gained a significant number of rights. As a result, it became easier for the chaebol to raise capital through equity rather than riskier debt. This is because the new transparency laws and restructuring boosted investor confidence from abroad.\n\nLaws were passed to limit the expansion of chaebol:\n\nFormally, the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC; 공정거래위원회;公正去來委員會) announces a limited chaebol list every year as size of industrial assets (not including financial companies).\n\nChaebol with limited assurance (상호출자제한기업집단;相互出資制限企業集團)\n\nThe following charts list chaebol in order by different categories.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21122519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21122519", "title": "Cogeco Peer 1", "text": "Cogeco Peer 1\n\nCogeco Peer 1 is a wholly owned subsidiary of Cogeco Communications Inc. which provides business-to-business products and services, such as colocation, network connectivity, managed hosting, cloud services and IT managed services. Cogeco Peer 1 is headquartered in Toronto, ON, Canada.\n\nOn October 19, 2015, Cogeco Cable Inc. announced the unification of two of their subsidiaries, Cogeco Data Services and Peer 1 Hosting.\n\nCogeco Data Services\n\nPeer 1 Hosting\n\nThe company was founded in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada in 1999 by Lance Tracey and Mark Teolis. From the beginning, the co-founders targeted small- and medium-sized business customers. Peer 1 Hosting offered colocation, dedicated servers, managed hosting, private cloud services, cloud storage, hosted email, and cloud-based graphics processing.\n\n\n\nCogeco Peer 1 provides these services in the following vertical markets: online retail, financial services, technology, public sector, education, health care, business services, manufacturing, media and online gaming.\n\nMore than 50 points of presence, including in Germany, the Netherlands and Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "11487258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11487258", "title": "Colorado for Family Values", "text": "Colorado for Family Values\n\nColorado for Family Values is a socially conservative advocacy group in Colorado, United States.\n\nIt was co-founded by Tony Marco, Kevin Tebedo and David Noebel in the early 1990s. Will Perkins, a former car dealer from Colorado Springs, is the Chairman of the Board. Originally, it was called the Colorado Coalition for Family Values, but they dropped the word 'coalition' after a radio presenter said it sounded Marxist. Some have argued, because of the proximity of timing for the moving of Focus on the Family to Colorado Springs, that James Dobson's move to Colorado Springs in 1991 led to its establishment. However, it was truly coincidental timing as Focus on the Family had nothing to do with the founding of Colorado for Family Values. Dobson's Focus on the Family is independent from CFV. It has also been linked to Traditional Values, Summit Ministries, Concerned Women for America, and the Eagle Forum. Bill McCartney, the founder of Promise Keepers, is a supporter.\n\nColorado for Family Values (CFV) was created specifically for the purpose of countering an objective of the Colorado Human Relations Commission, to introduce legislation that would effectively add the behavior of homosexuality to the list of protected class status, thus creating the legal process of strict scruntiny for claims of discrimination made by homosexual individuals. It drafted and promoted Amendment 2 in 1992, which led to the United States Supreme Court case \"Romer v. Evans\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20938443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20938443", "title": "Communist Action Organization in Iraq", "text": "Communist Action Organization in Iraq\n\nThe Communist Action Organization in Iraq (, \"\") was a communist organization in Iraq. The organization was founded in, after a split from the Iraqi Communist Party. The founders of the Communist Action Organization saw the Communist Party leadership as a 'rightist and opportunist tendency', criticizing their past cooperation with the Baath Party. Moreover, the Communist Action Organization accused the Communist Party leaders for having deviated from Marxism-Leninism.\n"}
{"id": "8338901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8338901", "title": "Consideration and Initiating Structure", "text": "Consideration and Initiating Structure\n\nConsideration and Initiating Structure are two dimensions of leader behavior identified in 1945 as a result of the Ohio State Leadership Studies. Reviews of research on these dimensions are in Ralph M. Stogdill (1974): \"Handbook of leadership: A survey of theory and research\".\nNew York, NY, US: Free Press; and Littrell, R.F. (2013).\n\nAccording to the findings of these studies, leaders exhibit two types of behaviors to facilitate goal accomplishment:\n\nThe model is similar to the Michigan Studies of Leadership.\n\nIn his Handbook, Stogdill expanded the model to twelve dimensions.\n\nPrior to 1945 most studies of leadership sought to identify the individual traits of effective leaders.\n\nTrait theories of leadership were the first to attempt a systematic approach of studying leadership. However, these studies yielded disappointing results when no set of traits were found that explained effective leadership.\n\nIn 1945, a group of researchers at the Ohio State University sought to identify the observable behaviors of leaders instead of identifying personality traits.\nTo accomplish this they generated a list of 1790 statements. This was narrowed down to 150 statements designed to measure nine different dimensions of leader behavior. These statements were used to develop the Leaders Behavior Description Questionnaire (LBDQ).\n\nAfter further research, the LBDQ-XII, was developed, assessing 12 factors/dimensions of leader behavior. See Stogdill (1963).\n\nConsideration is the extent to which a leader exhibits concern for the welfare of the members of the group.\n\nThis factor is oriented towards interpersonal relationships, mutual trust and friendship. \nThis leadership style is people-oriented. \n\nSome of the statements used to measure this factor in the LBDQ are:\n\nInitiating Structure is the extent to which a leader defines leader and group member roles, initiates actions, organizes group activities and defines how tasks are to be accomplished by the group.\n\nThis leadership style is task-oriented.\n\nSome of the statements used to measure this factor in the LBDQ are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4590410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4590410", "title": "Contraction and Convergence", "text": "Contraction and Convergence\n\nContraction and Convergence (C&C) is a proposed global framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions to combat climate change. Conceived by the Global Commons Institute [GCI] in the early 1990s, the Contraction and Convergence strategy consists of reducing overall emissions of greenhouse gases to a safe level (contraction), resulting from every country bringing its emissions per capita to a level which is equal for all countries (convergence). It is intended to form the basis of an international agreement which will reduce carbon dioxide emissions to avoid dangerous climate change, carbon dioxide being the gas that is primarily responsible for changes in the greenhouse effect on Earth. It is expressed as a simple mathematical formula. This formula can be used as a way for the world to stabilize carbon levels at any level. Advocates of Contraction and Convergence stress that negotiations at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change [UNFCCC] are governed sequentially by the 'objective' of the UNFCCC [safe and stable GHG concentration in the global atmosphere] followed by its organising principles ['precaution' and 'equity']. C&C is widely cited and supported. \n\nThe C&C calculus is now embedded in Domain Two of GCI's Carbon Budget Accounting Tool \n\nThe \"convergence\" part structures how the entitlements to emit carbon are shared between the countries or regions of the world. Initially entitlements would reflect current emissions, however subject to a negotiation of 'the rate of convergence' these initial entitlements will converge towards equal per capita entitlements across the planet. An early date of convergence will mean that countries with currently low per capita emissions (which as a rule are poorer countries) will see their entitlements rise while a late date for full convergence would risk curtailing poorer countries' chances of development.\n\nOnce convergence is reached then all countries entitlements would continue to fall, subject to the contraction-event required to be UNFCCC-compliant.\n\nSome argue that the per capita focus risks giving an incentive to countries to increase their population to \"earn\" more entitlements. To answer this, the GCI put a 'population base-year' function in the model for users to choose and specify any date between 2000 and 2050 beyond which no further entitlements would result from population growth.\n\nBoth the basic concept of Contraction and Convergence and the specific formulas that the Global Commons Institute advocate can be adapted to both very moderate restrictions on carbon emissions through to much more drastic measures depending on what final level of greenhouse gases concentration is deemed to carry an acceptable level of risk. However, supporters of Contraction and Convergence believe that a safe level at which concentrations of greenhouse gases should stabilize is much lower than many suggest. Specifically they believe that suggestions that atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide of 550 parts per million by volume (ppmv) would be safe are wrong. This they consider runs the risk of entering a phase of runaway \"climate feedback\", where one change sparks off another with unpredictable results. They advocate erring on the side of caution, with atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide being stabilized at 350-450 ppmv. GCI's numerical analysis of the unrealistically optimistic 'sink-assumptions' behind the UK Climate Act is here \n\nThe origin of GCI's intervention dates from 1989 and resulted in a statement published in 1990 in the Guardian June 18, 1991 \n\nThe formal calculating model 'Contraction and Convergence' [C&C] was developed over a period of three years in response to the objective and principles of the UNFCCC. Between 1992 and 1995, at the request of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, GCI undertook and presented an analysis on the growing trends of expansion and divergence, which revealed the increasing asymmetry in global development between developed and developing countries — ultimately observing that it was developing countries that would be worst affected by climate change. C&C was developed by GCI to counteract the adverse effects of these trends.\n\nThe application of the framework begins with a full-term contraction budget for global emissions consistent with stabilising atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases at a pre-agreed concentration deemed to be safe. In order to help negotiators at the UNFCCC negotiations internationally share this emissions contraction-budget in a way that is less arbitrary and chaotic than it was under 'Kyoto', the C&C model will calculate any rate of linear convergence of all Parties to the global per capita average arising under the chosen contraction rate. This can be on year anywhere between immediate and 'end-of-term' with or without a population base-year as desired. As Prof Ross Garnaut has observed in his 'Review' for the Australian Government, \"this rate-of-convergence is the main equity lever\" in the negotiations. Practically it means that the sooner the convergence occurs, the faster the gap between under-consumers and over consumers is closed but within the agreed contraction budget. Quickly following the launch of the Garnaut Review, collaborating researchers at Monash University published the first empirical C&C target based on human life expectancies across nations. The paper called for early adoption of C&C to soften any impact on younger generations.\n\nIn 2009 the Hadley Centre [UKMO] agreed that the rates of C&C projected by GCI to keep within 2 degrees Celsius were better than those projected by the UK Government in its 'Climate Act'.\n\nIn 2013 a further memo to the House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee presented a detailed critique of why the rates of C&C in the UK 'Climate Act' needed revision (acceleration) and provided a heuristic device (CBAT) to assist the understanding of this and how the revision might be organised.\n\nThe C&C aspect of the negotiations at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP-15) in Copenhagen in 2009 provoked controversy.\n\nHowever, these animations of C&C as 'Climate Justice without Vengeance' show transparently the financial implications of negotiating an 'accelerated convergence' which issue remains directly relevant to achieving the 'global climate deal' still sought for at COP-16 and beyond.\n\nThe contraction aspect of C&C was demonstrated by the UK Government Special Representative for Climate Change Sir David King at a debriefing to the IEA on COP-21 in January 2016. This compared the contraction-rates needed for 1.5 °C & 2 °C, with the INDCs on offer in the 'Paris Agreement' at 'COP-21'.\n\nThe animation files referenced above are available as both *.swf file and flash-self-executable [for both Macs and PCs] and are stable and virus-free: -\n\nhttp://www.gci.org.uk/animations/C&C_COP_15.exe\nhttp://www.tangentfilms.com/C&CPRESMAC.hqx\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294829", "title": "Daniel Shays", "text": "Daniel Shays\n\nDaniel Shays (September 29, 1825) was an American soldier, revolutionary, and farmer famous for being one of the leaders of Shays' Rebellion, a populist uprising against controversial debt collection and tax policies in Massachusetts in 1786 and 1787.\n\nDaniel Shays was born in 1747 in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, the son of Irish immigrants Patrick and Margaret (Dempsey) Shays. Daniel was the second of six; his siblings were Margaret, James, Roger, Phebe, and Mary Polly. He spent his early years as a landless farm laborer. In 1772, he married Abigail Gilbert, and they settled in Brookfield, Massachusetts where they had 6 children.\n\nShays joined the local militia during the American Revolution and rose to the rank of captain in the 5th Massachusetts Regiment of the Continental Army by 1777. He was involved in the Boston campaign and fought at the Battle of Bunker Hill. He also fought in the Battle of Lexington and the Battle of Saratoga. He was wounded during the war and resigned from the military unpaid in 1780. Upon returning home, he was summoned to court for unpaid debts, which he could not pay because he had not been paid in full for his military service. In 1780, General Lafayette presented him with an ornamental sword in honor of his military service. He later sold it for a few dollars to help pay off his debts, which was frowned upon by his peers.\n\nAfter returning from the war, Daniel Shays was alarmed to discover that many of his fellow veterans and farmers were in the same financial situation as he. At commoners' meetings veterans asserted that they were treated unfairly upon release, and that businessmen were trying to squeeze money out of smallholders in order to pay their own debts to European war investors. Many Massachusetts rural communities first tried to petition the legislature in Boston, but the legislature was dominated by eastern merchant interests and did not respond substantively to those petitions. The petitions and proposals often included a request to issue paper currency. Such inflationary issues would depreciate the currency, making it possible to meet obligations made at high values with lower-valued paper. The merchants, among them James Bowdoin, were opposed to these proposals because they were generally lenders who stood to lose. These proposals were repeatedly rejected. Governor John Hancock, accused by some of anticipating trouble, abruptly resigned in early 1785. When Bowdoin (a loser to Hancock in earlier elections) was elected governor that year, matters became more severe. Bowdoin stepped up civil actions to collect back taxes, and the legislature exacerbated the situation by levying an additional property tax to raise funds for the state's portion of foreign debt payments. Even comparatively conservative commentators like John Adams observed that these levies were \"heavier than the People could bear\".\n\nProtests in the rural Massachusetts turned into direct action in August 1786, after the state legislature adjourned without considering the many petitions that had been sent to Boston. On August 29 a well-organized force of protestors, Shays among them, marched on Northampton and successfully prevented the county court from sitting. The leaders of this and later forces proclaimed that they were seeking relief from the burdensome judicial processes that were depriving the people of their land and possessions. They called themselves \"Regulators\", a reference to the Regulator movement of North Carolina that sought to reform corrupt practices in the late 1760s. On September 2 Governor Bowdoin issued a proclamation denouncing such mob action, but took no military measures in response beyond planning militia response to future actions. When the court in Worcester was shut down by similar action on September 5, the county militia (composed mainly of men sympathetic to the protestors) refused to turn out, much to Bowdoin's amazement.\n\nShays, who had participated in the Northampton action, began to take a more active leadership role in the uprising in November. On September 19, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts indicted eleven leaders of the rebellion as \"disorderly, riotous, and seditious persons.\" When the supreme judicial court was next scheduled to meet in Springfield on September 26, Shays in Hampshire County and Luke Day in what is now Hampden County (but was then part of Hampshire County) organized an attempt to shut it down. They were anticipated by William Shepard, the local militia commander, who began gathering government-supporting militia the Saturday before the court was to sit. By the time the court was ready to open, Shepard had 300 men protecting the Springfield courthouse. Shays and Day were able to recruit a similar number, but chose only to demonstrate, exercising their troops outside Shepard's lines, rather than attempt to seize the building. The judges first postponed the hearings, and then adjourned on the 28th without hearing any cases. Shepard withdrew his force, which had grown to some 800 men (to the Regulators' 1,200), to the federal armory, which was then only rumored to be the target of seizure by the activists.\n\nOn November 28 a posse of some 300 men rode to Groton to arrest Job Shattuck and other protest leaders in the area. Shattuck was chased down and arrested on the 30th, and was wounded by a sword slash in the process. This action and the arrest of other protest leaders in the eastern parts of the state radicalized those in the west, and they began to organize an overthrow of the state government. \"The seeds of war are now sown\", wrote one correspondent in Shrewsbury, and by mid-January rebel leaders spoke of smashing the \"tyrannical government of Massachusetts.\"\n\nWhile government forces organized in the east, Shays, Day, and other rebel leaders in the west organized their forces, establishing regional regimental organizations that were run by democratically elected committees. Their first major target was the federal armory in Springfield. General Shepard had, however, pursuant to orders from Governor Bowdoin, taken possession of the armory and used its arsenal to arm a force of some 1,200 militia.\n\nThe insurgents were organized into three major groups, and intended to surround and simultaneously attack the armory. Shays led one group east of Springfield near Palmer, Luke Day had a second force across the Connecticut River in West Springfield, and the third force, under Eli Parsons, was to the north at Chicopee. The rebels had planned their assault for January 25, but Luke Day changed this at the last minute, sending Shays a message indicating he would not be ready to attack until the 26th. Day's message was intercepted by Shepard's men, so the militia of Shays and Parsons, some 1,500 men, approached the armory on the 25th not knowing they would have no support from the west.\nWhen Shays and his forces neared the armory, they found Shepard's militia waiting for them. Shepard first ordered warning shots fired over the approaching Shaysites' heads, and then ordered two cannons to fire grape shot at Shays's men. Four Shaysites were killed and twenty wounded. There was no musket fire from either side, and the rebel advance collapsed. Most of the rebel force fled north, eventually regrouping at Amherst. On the opposite side of the river, Day's forces also fled north, also eventually reaching Amherst.\n\nGeneral Benjamin Lincoln had mustered 3,000 men at Worcester to deal with the rebels. When he heard of the Springfield incident, they immediately began marching west. Shays led the rebel force generally north and east to avoid Lincoln, eventually establishing a camp at Petersham; along the way they raided the shops of local merchants for supplies, taking some of them hostage. Lincoln pursued them, reaching Pelham, some from Petersham, on February 2. On the night of February 3–4, he led his militia on a forced march to Petersham through a bitter snowstorm. Arriving early in the morning, they surprised the rebel camp so thoroughly that they scattered \"without time to call in their out parties or even their guards.\" Although Lincoln claimed to capture 150 men, none of them were officers, leading historian Leonard Richards to suspect the veracity of the report. Shays and some of the other leaders escaped north into New Hampshire and Vermont.\n\nSome four thousand people signed confessions acknowledging participation in the events of the rebellion (in exchange for amnesty); several hundred participants were eventually indicted on charges relating to the rebellion. Most of these were pardoned under a general amnesty that only excluded a few ringleaders. Eighteen men, including Shays, were convicted and sentenced to death. Most of these were either overturned on appeal, pardoned, or had their sentences commuted. Two of the condemned men, John Bly and Charles Rose, were hanged on December 6, 1787. Shays was pardoned in 1788 and he returned to Massachusetts from hiding in the Vermont woods. He was, however, vilified by the Boston press, who painted him as an archetypal anarchist opposed to the government.\n\nShays was later granted a pension by the federal government for the five years he served in the Continental Army without pay. Shays lived the last few years of his life in poverty, a heavy drinker. He supported himself on his pension and by working a small parcel of land. Shays died at age 78 in Sparta, New York, and was buried at the Union Cemetery in Scottsburg.\n\nThe original gravestone for Shays contained an error; by dropping the \"s\", Shays was incorrectly spelled as \"Shay\". In 2016, Philip R. Shays, of Clarence Center, New York, a descendant of Daniel Shays, led an effort to correct the error. Because the original stone did not contain enough space to add a letter, a new marker was created. The new gravestone was dedicated in a ceremony on August 12.\n"}
{"id": "390697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390697", "title": "Dead end (street)", "text": "Dead end (street)\n\nA dead end is a street with only one inlet/outlet. A dead end is also known as a cul-de-sac ( or , from French for cul [\"bottom\"] + de [\"of\"] + sac [\"bag, sack\"]) or no exit road in certain contexts and dialects. In Australia they are usually referred to as a court when they have a bulbous end.\n\nThe term \"dead end\" is understood in all varieties of English, but the official terminology and traffic signs include many different alternatives. Some of these are used only regionally. In the United States and other countries, \"cul-de-sac\" is often not an exact synonym for \"dead end\" and refers to dead ends with a circular end, allowing for easy turning at the end of the road. The actual term people mean to use for a “cul-de-sac” is cove. \n\nDead ends are created in urban planning to limit through-traffic in residential areas. While some dead ends provide no possible passage except in and out of their road entry, others allow cyclists, pedestrians or other non-automotive traffic to pass through connecting easements or paths, an example of filtered permeability. The International Federation of Pedestrians proposed to call such streets \"living end streets\" and to provide signage at the entry of the streets that make this permeability for pedestrians and cyclists clear. Its application retains the dead end's primary function as a non-through road, but establishes complete pedestrian and bicycle network connectivity.\n\nThe earliest examples of dead ends were unearthed in the El-Lahun workers' village in Egypt, which was built circa 1885 BC. The village is laid out with straight streets that intersect at right angles; akin to a grid, but irregular. The western part of the excavated village, where the workers lived, shows fifteen narrow and short dead-ends laid out perpendicularly on either side of a wider, straight street; all terminate at the enclosing walls.\n\nDead-end streets also appeared during the classical period of Athens and Rome. The 15th century architect and planner Leon Battista Alberti implies in his writings that dead-end streets may have been used intentionally in antiquity for defense purposes. He writes: \"The Ancients in All Towns were for having some intricate Ways and turn again Streets [i.e.dead-ends or loops], without any Passage through them, that if an Enemy comes into them, he may be at a Loss, and be in Confusion and Suspense; or if he pushes on daringly, may be easily destroyed\". The same opinion is expressed by an earlier thinker, Aristotle, when he criticized the Hippodamian grid. He writes: \"... but for security in war [the arrangement is more useful if it is planned in] the opposite [manner], as it used to be in ancient times. For that [arrangement] is difficult for foreign troops to enter and find their way about when attacking.\"\n\nIn the UK, their prior existence is implied by an 1875 law which banned their use in new developments.\n\nInferential evidence of their earlier use can also be drawn from the text of a German architect, Rudolf Eberstadt, that explains their purpose and utility: We have, in our medieval towns, showing very commendable methods of cutting up the land. I ought to mention here that to keep traffic out of residential streets is necessary not only in the general interest of the population, but, above all, for the sake of the children, whose health (amongst the working classes) is mainly dependent on the opportunity of moving about in close connection with their dwelling places, without the danger of being run over. In the earlier periods, traffic was excluded from residential streets simply by gates or by employing the cul-de-sac.\n\nIt was in the UK that the cul-de-sac street type was first legislated into use, with The Hampstead Garden Suburb Act 1906. The proponents of the Act, Raymond Unwin and Barry Parker, thus gained permission to introduce culs-de-sac in their subsequent site plans, and they promoted it as a suitable street type for Garden Suburbs. Unwin's applications of the cul-de-sac and the related crescent always included pedestrian paths independent of the road network. This design feature reflects the predominance of pedestrian movement for local trips at the turn of the 20th century, and presages the current planning priority for increased pedestrian accessibility. The 1906 Act defined the nature of the cul-de-sac as a non-through road and restricted its length to . Garden cities in the UK that followed Hampstead, such as Welwyn Garden City all included culs-de-sac (see photo).\n\nIn the 1920s, the garden city movement gained ground in the US and, with it, came its design elements, such as the cul-de-sac. Clarence Stein, a main proponent of the movement, incorporated it in the Radburn, NJ, subdivision, which was to become a model for subsequent neighbourhood developments. The US Federal Housing Authority recommended and promoted their use through their 1936 guidelines and the power of lending development funds.\n\nIn Canada, a variation of Stein’s Radburn 1929 plan that used crescents (loops) instead of culs-de-sac was built in 1947 in Manitoba, Wildwood Park, Winnipeg, designed by Hubert Bird. In 1954, the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation published its own guidelines in which the cul-de-sac was strongly recommended for local streets and, as the FHA in the US, used its lending power to see its inclusion in development plans. The Varsity Village and Braeside, subdivisions in Calgary, Alberta also used the Radburn model in the late 1960s.\n\nIn the 1960s the cul-de-sac attained systematic international application in planned new cities such as Doxiadis’ Islamabad (1960). In the UK new towns such as Harlow (1947) by Sir Frederick Gibberd and Milton Keynes (1967) incorporated culs-de-sac and crescents in their layouts\nPlanning theorists have suggested the use alternatives to culs-de-sac most notably, Christopher Alexander et al., in his “A Pattern Language” 1977 book (pattern #49) suggests the use of looped local roads which do not abruptly stop. Although dead end streets, i.e. culs-de-sac, would fit his definition of looped local roads Alexander suggestions that \"culs-de-sacs are very bad from a social standpoint–they force interaction and they feel claustrophobic, because there is only one entrance\". Doxiadis has additionally argued their important role in separating man from machine.\n\nOriginally unplanned dead ends have been created in the centers of cities that are laid on a grid by blocking through traffic. Whole neighbourhood street reconfigurations emerged in several cities, mainly concentrated in North America and the UK, which include Berkeley, California, Seattle, Washington and Vancouver, British Columbia. This transformation of grid plans since the 1970s responds to the following needs:\nThis selective, sporadic transformation is continuing. As traffic volumes increase and as cities decide to remove or reduce traffic on specific streets of central areas, streets are closed off using bollards or landscaping thus creating new, originally unplanned dead ends and producing a new, functional blend of the inherited grid with newer street types. A recent variation of limiting traffic is the managed closure by using retractable bollards which are activated by designated card holders only. However, not only do they stop cars, they also stop ambulances and other emergency vehicles and often lack adequate turning.\n\nSince the end of World War II, new subdivisions in the United States and Canada, as well as New Towns in England and other countries have made extensive use of the cul-de-sac and crescent (loops) street types. Typically, there is one or several central roads in the subdivision with many cul-de-sac streets of varying length, branching out from the main roads, to fill the land in the subdivision; a dendrite or hierarchical pattern. Since the 1960s, this pattern has been the dominant road network structure of suburbs and exurbs in the United States, Canada, and Australia. It is also increasingly popular in Latin America, Western Europe, and China. In this pattern, there are only a few roads (relative to the number of cul-de-sac streets) leading out of the subdivision and into other subdivisions or onto major roads.\n\nIn the US, these changes can be attributed to real-estate developers' desire to meet FHA guidelines and make federal home loans available to their consumers. In Canada a similar incentive was provided to developers by CMHC. These incentives, which were discontinued in the 1970s, gave the initial impetus for the application of the hierarchical pattern. In other countries, such incentives do not exist and its adoption is motivated by consumer preferences.\n\nAmerican urban planning, in the 19th and early 20th century emphasized a grid plan, partly out of extensive reliance on foot, horse and streetcars for transportation. In such earlier urban development, alleys were included to allow for deliveries of soiled supplies, such as coal, to the rear of houses which are now heated by electricity, piped natural gas or oil.\nThe use of culs-de-sac reduces the amount of car traffic on residential streets within the subdivision, thus reducing noise, air pollution and the probability of accidents. Ben-Joseph (1995) and Lovegrove/Sayed (2006) indicate a substantially lower collision rate for street networks based on the cul-de-sac street type. Dumbaugh and Rae (2009) suggest that land use patterns play a significant role in traffic safety and should be considered in conjunction with the network pattern. While all intersection types in general increase the incidence of fatal crashes, four-way intersections, which rarely occur in a network with cul-de-sac or loop streets, increase total and injurious crashes significantly. The study recommends hybrid street networks with dense concentrations of T-intersections and concludes that a return to the 19th century gridiron is undesirable.\n\nThis decrease in traffic, in turn, is thought to lower the incidence of crime and increase desirability, because in most cases the people who traverse the cul-de-sac either live there or are guests of those who do. CPTED planning principles suggest increased natural surveillance and sense of ownership as a means of fostering security in a neighbourhood. Both of these phenomena occur naturally on a cul-de-sac street as does social networking. Design guidelines based on the CPTED perspective recommend its use for these reasons.\n\nCul-de-sac streets increase spontaneous outdoor activity by children. A study in California examined the amount of child play that occurred on the streets of neighbourhoods with different characteristics; grid pattern and culs-de-sac. The findings indicate that culs-de-sac showed substantial increase in play activity than the open grid street pattern. Culs-de-sac reduce perceived danger from traffic, thereby encouraging more outdoor play.\n\nSimilar studies in Europe and Australia found that children’s outdoor play is significantly reduced on through roads where traffic is, or perceived by parents to be, a risk. In addition, they confirmed the results of the seminal Donald Appleyard 1982 study which showed the negative correlation between amount of traffic and social networks. This inverse correlation between amounts of traffic and sociability of streets was reconfirmed by a newer study that repeated Appleyard’s San Francisco analysis in Bristol, UK. It showed that the cul-de-sac street with the lowest traffic of the three streets had the highest level of social interaction.\nThese studies recommend the use of the cul-de-sac or strong traffic calming measures. When culs-de-sac are interconnected with foot and bike paths, as for example in Vauban, Freiburg, Village Homes, Davis, California, they can increase active modes of mobility among their residents.\n\nReal estate developers prefer culs-de-sac because they allow builders to fit more houses into oddly shaped tracts of land and facilitate building to the edges of rivers and property lines. They also choose these discontinuous network patterns of cul-de-sac and loop streets because of the often significant economies in infrastructure costs compared to the grid plan.\n\nFrom an environmental perspective, culs-de-sac allow greater flexibility than the common grid in adapting to the natural grades of a site and to its ecologically sensitive features, such as streams creeks and mature forest growth.\n\nThe desirability of the cul-de-sac street type among home buyers is implied by the evidence that they often pay up to a 20% premium for a home on such a street, according to one study. This could be because there is considerably less passing traffic, resulting in less noise and reduced actual or perceived risk, increasing the sense of tranquility. A survey of residents on three types of streets: cul-de-sac, loop, and through (grid) recorded their preferences among these types. It found that 82% of cul-de-sac residents preferred their own street type, 18% preferred a loop, and 0% the grid. Only 13% of grid street residents preferred their own type and 54% would choose a cul-de-sac to live on.\nTwo other studies, reported in 1990 and 2009 respectively, confirmed this upward trend and determined the premium that cul-de-sac streets command. The first found a 29% premium over the streets in a grid. The second, focused on trails and greenbelts, found that other amenities including cul-de-sac streets add significantly to the home value.\n\nThe positive feelings that a cul-de-sac street could evoke, that residents value, are expressed vividly by Allan Jacobs in describing a short (250 ft), narrow (60 ft), densely built (14 du/acre), and wood-paved cul-de-sac in the Shadyside neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: “Step into Roslyn Place and you are likely to sense, immediately, that you are in a \"place\", a special place, a handsome place, a safe place, a welcoming place, a place where you might wish to live.” ... “narrowness and enclosure and intimacy bring a feeling of safety to Roslyn Place... “Stay on our street” is all the kids have to know.”\n\nGated communities, steadily increasing worldwide, employ cul-de-sac and loop street networks because, having a dendrite structure, they reduce the number of through roads and, consequently, the corresponding number of entries and exits to be controlled.\n\nDead ends are traditionally considered safer traffic environments for children than normal streets, but research shows that areas with many dead ends in fact have higher rates of traffic accidents involving young children.\n\nCuls-de-sac are criticised by urban designers like those of the Foundation for the Built Environment in the United Kingdom for encouraging car transport for even short distances, as more direct connections are precluded by the geometry, which necessitates long travel distances even to physically nearby locations. This increases fuel consumption and vehicle emissions and has negative effects on health by reducing walking and cycling rates. Related research in the United States by Richard Jackson has shown that people in car-based (cul-de-sac heavy) communities weigh on average 6 lb (2.7 kg) more than those in traditional towns (with open grid networks).\nAn extensive analysis of the research evidence by TRB, however, shows only an association between the built environment and physical activity levels, not causal connections. The evidence does not either identify with certainty which characteristics of the built environment are most closely associated with physical activity behaviour. The study also warns against confusing inadequate physical activity with obesity which is the outcome of an energy imbalance. Many contemporary lifestyle trends, some inevitable (sedentary work) and some avoidable, (frequent energy-rich food consumption or TV watching [4 h/d]), contribute to this imbalance and must be considered in understanding and combating obesity.\n\nThe impermeability deficiency of the typical cul-de-sac street can be addressed by applying a modified, improved version of it, mentioned above, that enables pedestrian and bicycle through movement. While this more permeable version can be applied in new developments easily, modifying existing impermeable cul-de-sac streets is problematic as it encounters property ownership issues. Efforts in this direction are, however, being made. Given the complicated legal process and the sheer number of exiting cul-de-sac streets, however, such efforts would be slow to produce results and may only have a marginal impact in changing the landscape of existing districts. Conversely, transforming existing streets that are part of a grid plan into permeable, linked culs-de-sac, as was done in Berkeley, California and Vancouver, British Columbia, is physically and administratively easy due to the public ownership of the street right-of-way. However, residents on adjacent through roads may resent the potential traffic increase and delay the process. In Berkeley, the barriers used were permeable to both pedestrian and bicycle traffic, and became the backbone of the bicycle boulevard system in that region.\n\nIncreases in pedestrian and bicycle permeability may result in a displacement of local car trips for short distance destinations and consequently a reduction in neighbourhood vehicle emissions. The impermeable cul-de-sac not only discourages walking and biking but also increases the length of car trips by the circuitous geometry of the dendrite network structure of which it is a part. Research studies examined the influence of several variables on the amount of car travel that residents of several types of districts recorded. Results vary considerably among one other, but there is general agreement on a number of key correlations: a) the wealthier and the larger the family is the more cars they own and the more they drive, b) the farther away a family lives from the city centre and the fewer the jobs in the vicinity plus a slow bus service the more they drive and c) street patterns may add a 10% length to \"local trips\" but the total VKTs are affected more by the \"macro\" urban than the \"micro\" neighbourhood structure.\n\nCuls-de-sac, especially those that also cut off pedestrian connections instead of limiting only road traffic, have also been criticised for negative effects on safety, because they decrease the amount of through traffic (vehicular or pedestrian) that might spot an accident or crime victim in need of help. Proponents of culs-de-sac and gated communities have in turn countered that the reduction in through traffic makes any \"stranger\" much more recognisable in the closed local environment and thus reduces crime danger. This view has in turn been characterized as unrealistic; it is argued that since only a very small proportion of all non-locals passing through the area are potential criminals, increased traffic should increase rather than decrease safety.\n\nNew research has expanded the discussion on this disputed issue. A recent study did extensive spatial analysis and correlated several building, site plan and social factors with crime frequencies and identified subtle nuances to the contrasting positions. The study looked at, among others, a) dwelling types, b) unit density (site density) c) movement on the street, d) culs–de-sac or grids and e) the permeability of a residential area. Among its conclusions are, respectively, that a) flats are always safer than houses and the wealth of inhabitants matters; b) density is generally beneficial but more so at ground level; c) local movement is beneficial, larger scale movement not so; d) relative affluence and the number of neighbours has a greater effect than either being on a cul-de-sac or being on a through street. It also re-established that simple, linear culs-de-sac with good numbers of dwellings that are joined to through streets tend to be safe. As for permeability, it suggests that residential areas should be permeable enough to allow movement in all directions but no more. The over-provision of poorly used permeability is a crime hazard.\n\nMore generally, the New Urbanism movement has offered criticism of the cul-de-sac and crescent (loop) street types not intended to network with each other. It has been suggested that such street layouts can cause increased traffic on the collector streets. It is recognized that cul-de-sac and looped streets inherently remove car traffic through them and restrict access to residents only. Resident traffic is naturally channelled to minor residential collectors and to arterials that provide inter-neighbourhood and inter-district connectivity. A study, reported in 1990, compared the traffic performance in a development that was laid out using two approaches, one with and the other without hierarchy or cul-de-sac streets. It concluded that the non-hierarchical, traditional layout generally shows lower peak speed and shorter, more frequent intersection delays than the hierarchical pattern. The traditional pattern is not as friendly to the long trips as the hierarchical but friendlier to short trips. Local trips in it are shorter in distance but about equivalent in time with the hierarchical layout. A later similar comparative traffic study of about concluded that all types of layouts perform adequately in most land use scenarios and that a refined hierarchical, dendrite network can improve traffic performance.\n\nAnecdotal and research evidence suggests that navigation (especially on foot) in a disconnected network of cul-de-sac and looped streets is inconvenient and non-intuitive, particularly when combined with curvilinear geometry. Loss of orientation and sense of direction is also a common experience in older cities with cul-de-sac streets (Medina of Arab cities or Mediterranean hill towns) as well as in cities with highly irregular block geometries and sizes and corresponding street alignments that produce a labyrinthine effect. The long history of such cities implies that an irregular, complicated street network that appears entirely illegible to a visitor is well understood and used by the inhabitants. More convincing about its workability for their permanent residents are the case histories of cities such as Regensburg that show a gradual transformation of an imported or imposed orthogonal, “legible” grid to the traditional “confusing” street networks.\n\nCul-de-sac and loop streets can reduce the size of any given neighbourhood to a single street. Neighbourhoods can be defined by geographic boundaries but more often it is shared ethnic, socio-economic and cultural characteristics that create social cohesion irrespective of apparent physical \"boundaries\". Mehaffy \"et al.\" (2010), who propose a model for structuring an urban network, suggest that neighbourhoods cannot be designed into being. “Community” is viewed as a dynamic social and cultural construct especially in contemporary, open, multicultural cities. Residential area street configuration can only assist its emergence by reducing through traffic and increasing local pedestrian movement; a design goal for which connected cul-de-sac and looped streets are suited.\n\nIssues of pedestrian trip length and isolation are sharply evident in the back-to-front housing arrangement where the front of the house fronts onto the cul-de-sac street while the rear fronts onto the main roads. Some of these problems can be mitigated by the newer practice of connecting the neighbouring roads and culs-de-sac with public pedestrian/cycle paths. In effect, this removes the discontinuity aspect for these modes of transport. Built examples of such connected culs-de-sac can be found in the United States (such as Radburn, New Jersey and Village Homes, California), England (such as Milton Keynes) and Greece (such as Papagou, a suburb of Athens) (see photo). Acknowledging their use, Germany, under the 2009 amendment to the Road Traffic Act, introduced an additional sign for culs-de-sac that are permeable to pedestrians and cyclists. (see under signage below). A new system for organizing connected, permeable culs-de-sac into complete neighbourhoods, the Fused Grid, has been developed by Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation.\n\nIn the North American development context and planning literature, cul-de-sac streets have been associated with low density residential development. sustainable development theorists and proponents claim that this is in some undefined way, inefficient. The increased prevalence of cul-de-sac streets occurred in the 1960s and 1970s, a period of rapid economic and city expansion, when a detached house on a large lot meant an ideal form of habitation. This temporal coincidence of the wide adoption of a street type and an increasing demand for large lots and houses creates the impression of a necessary relationship between street type and unit density. Historically, however, the earliest systematic application of the cul-de-sac street type by Raymond Unwin (1909) had a unit density between 8 and 12 units per acre, considerably higher than mid-to-late 20th century. Even early 21st century developments rarely achieve densities above 5 to 7 units per acre in the suburbs. Conversely, early 1950s suburban developments that were laid out on a grid exhibit similar low densities. Evidently, street, network type and density are not linked causally; other factors, such as land scarcity and income influence the outcome as, for example, in cities that are landlocked or that have low average incomes.\n\nAnother concern is often raised by emergency services, who can have difficulty locating streets when a community consists of a large number of similarly named culs-de-sac; also, large fire response vehicles, in particular, can have great difficulty with turning around in a cul-de-sac. However, confusing street naming is not a necessary outcome of street network design and can be improved. The practice of naming orthogonal networks by numbers and letters in the corresponding cardinal directions has been criticized by Camilo Sitte as lacking imagination. Nonetheless, police and fire departments now use advanced GPS systems that quickly locate the destination and the shortest path to follow.\n\nSchool buses can also have a hard time turning around, which means that children who live in a cul-de-sac must often walk to a bus stop on a main through road. However, recent research on obesity and urban planning suggests that this may be an advantage because it enables children to get daily physical activity. Longer walking distances, however, reduce interest to use buses especially when a car is available. This disincentive to walking to the school bus stop can be overcome in planned cul-de-sac streets by regulating their maximum length to about , as was recommended and practiced by R. Unwin and others.\n\nWeighing available evidence has led a few U.S. cities including Austin, Texas; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Portland, Oregon to restrict and regulate the inclusion of cul-de-sac streets in new suburbs. However, a 2010 study on Sprawl in NA by a legal expert concludes that “...neighborhoods dominated by culs-de-sac are less walkable than those that include street grids...’. ‘On the other hand, culs-de-sac do have a countervailing public benefit: because of their very inaccessibility, they tend to have less automobile traffic. Given the existence of important public policy goals on both sides, a city seeking to maximize walkability should not favor culs-de-sac over grids, but should also allow some culs-de-sac as a legitimate residential option’ ... ‘In addition, there are “middle ground” alternatives between prohibiting culs-de-sac and mandating them. For example, a city could encourage culs-de-sac combined with pedestrian walkways”. This design combination is shown in the Village Homes layout and is an integral part of the Fused Grid.\n\nGeorge Orwell wrote in his 1946 article \"Politics and the English Language\" that the term \"cul de sac\" is another foreign word used in English as pretentious diction and is unnecessary.\n\nThe word \"cul-de-sac\" and its synonyms or near synonyms \"dead end\" and \"no exit\" have inspired metaphorical uses in literature and in culture, often with the result that a word or phrase seeming to have a negative connotation is replaced in street signs with a new coinage. (\"No outlet\" is another alternative name used on street signs.)\n\nThe expression \"cul-de-sac\" comes from French, where it originally meant \"bottom of the sack\". It was first used in English in anatomy (since 1738). It was used for dead-end streets since 1800 in English (since the 14th century in French). The often heard erroneous folk etymology \"arse/ass [buttocks] of the sack\" is based on the modern meaning of \"cul\" in French, Catalan, and Occitan, but \"cul\" doesn't have that meaning in \"cul-de-sac\", which is still used to refer to dead ends in modern French although the terms \"\" and \"voie sans issue\" are more common in modern French.\n\nJ. R. R. Tolkien used the name Bag End as a translation of \"cul-de-sac\" to poke fun at the British use of French terms.\n\nIn Canada, \"cul-de-sac\" is commonly used in speech but \"no exit\" or \"no through road\" is more common in road signs, especially in western Canada. In Quebec and Newfoundland, \"Cul-de-Sac\" is in far more common use, though Quebec is increasingly using \"Impasse\" instead.\n\nIn Australia, they are signposted as and often referred to as a \"No Through Road\". Suffixes for these types of streets include \"court\", \"close\" or \"place\". The term \"cul-de-sac\" generally only refers to a reasonably short street with a bulbous end, or even only to the end portion. A long road that is a no-through road and terminates abruptly is usually called a dead end.\n\nIn New Zealand they are signposted as \"No Exit\", but are often not signposted at all. The terms 'cul-de-sac' and 'dead end' have the same senses as in Australia (see above).\n\nU.S. Federal Highway Administration rules state: \"The \"Dead End\" sign may be used at the entrance of a single road or street that terminates in a dead end or cul-de-sac. The \"No Outlet\" sign may be used at the entrance to a road or road network from which there is no other exit.\" There is no federal regulation on \"no exit\".\n\nThe phrase, \"No Exit\", is also preferred for Chicago signs, although \"dead end\" is still used there. New York City has favored \"dead end\" since at least the 1930s, when Sidney Kingsley used the phrase to title his Broadway play about poor, tough East Side youths with lives of little promise, in contrast to the dead-end streets of the nearby Sutton Place neighborhood. (Similarly, French existentialist Jean-Paul Sartre titled a play about three damned sinners, \"Huis Clos\", translated into English as \"No Exit\".) Kingsley's play was later made into a movie, \"Dead End\", which proved so popular that it spawned similar movies, many starring a group of recurring characters known as the Dead End Kids. The play and movies created such a strong image of bleak futures and an unfair society that some municipalities changed the sign terminology for culs-de-sac, often to \"no outlet\" or \"no exit\". (The \"dead end\" signs currently at Sutton Place are bright yellow with black lettering.)\n\nIn New York City, as of 2008, there were 4,659 \"dead end\" traffic signs, along with 160 \"no outlet\" signs. The city records, which go back to the 1960s, show only a couple \"no exit\" signs once existing near the approaches to the Midtown Tunnel, and which are no longer there. \"We hear that some towns use 'no outlet' instead of 'dead end' because they think it sounds less morbid,\" New York City Commissioner of Transportation Janette Sadik-Khan said in 2008. \"We tell New Yorkers the truth: it's a 'dead end', and we think that motorists get the point quickly.\"\n\nCalifornia uses the phrase \"Not a Through Street\" or \"Not a Through Road\" to mark roads or road systems that end in culs-de-sac. More recently, \"No Outlet\" has been shown on some signs as well (an example being Meyers Avenue south of Eureka Street in the Pine Hills area).\n\nIn military parlance, a \"cul-de-sac\" refers to a situation where an army is \"hemmed in on all sides but behind\". \"Cul-de-sac\" is also used metaphorically to mean a line of thought or action that leads nowhere.\n\nIn medicine, the expression is used to refer to the recto-uterine pouch, also known as the Pouch of Douglas, the deepest point of the female peritoneal cavity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31590594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31590594", "title": "Democratic Movement of Serbia", "text": "Democratic Movement of Serbia\n\nThe Democratic Movement of Serbia () or DEPOS, was a centre-right political coalition founded in 1992. The coalition was formed by:\n\n\nThe coalition received 16.89% of the popular vote in the 1992 and 16.64% in the 1993 parliamentary elections. The DSS left the coalition ahead of the 1993 election, while the DEPOS was joined by the Civic Alliance of Serbia and the People's Peasant Party. The coalition was dissolved in 1993 after New Democracy entered into a coalition government with the Socialist Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "25825527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25825527", "title": "Department of Basic Education", "text": "Department of Basic Education\n\nThe Department of Basic Education (DBE) is one of the departments of the South African government. It oversees primary and secondary education in South Africa. It was created in 2009 after the election of President Jacob Zuma, when the former Department of Education was divided.\n\nThe political head of the department is the Minister of Basic Education; this is Angie Motshekga. The department is headquartered in Sol Plaatje House, named after the author Sol Plaatje, in Pretoria. This South African ministry has been heavily criticized, especially during the 2012 textbook crisis.\n\nIn the 2010 national budget, the department received an appropriation of 6,166.2 million rand, and had 730 employees.\n\n\nDepartment of Education CAPS Resources \n"}
{"id": "1241326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1241326", "title": "Federation of Australia", "text": "Federation of Australia\n\nThe Federation of Australia was the process by which the six separate British self-governing colonies of Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, South Australia, and Western Australia agreed to unite and form the Commonwealth of Australia, establishing a system of federalism in Australia. Fiji and New Zealand were originally part of this process, but they decided not to join the federation. Following federation, the six colonies that united to form the Commonwealth of Australia as states kept the systems of government (and the bicameral legislatures) that they had developed as separate colonies, but they also agreed to have a federal government that was responsible for matters concerning the whole nation. When the Constitution of Australia came into force, on 1 January 1901, the colonies collectively became states of the Commonwealth of Australia.\n\nThe efforts to bring about federation in the mid-19th century were dogged by the lack of popular support for the movement. A number of conventions were held during the 1890s to develop a constitution for the Commonwealth. Sir Henry Parkes, Premier of New South Wales, was instrumental in this process. Sir Edmund Barton, second only to Parkes in the length of his commitment to the federation cause, was the caretaker Prime Minister of Australia at the inaugural national election in 1901 in March 1901. The election returned Barton as prime minister, though without a majority.\n\nThis period has lent its name to an architectural style prevalent in Australia at that time, known as Federation architecture, or Federation style.\n\nA serious movement for Federation of the colonies arose in the late 1880s, a time when there was increasing nationalism amongst Australians, the great majority of whom were native-born. The idea of being \"Australian\" began to be celebrated in songs and poems. This was fostered by improvements in transport and communications, such as the establishment of a telegraph system between the colonies in 1872. The Australian colonies were also influenced by other federations which had emerged around the world, such as the United States and Canada.\n\nSir Henry Parkes, then Colonial Secretary of New South Wales, first proposed a Federal Council body in 1867. After it was rejected by the British Secretary of State for the Colonies, the Duke of Buckingham, Parkes brought up the issue again in 1880, this time as the Premier of New South Wales. At the conference, representatives from Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia considered a number of issues including federation, communication, Chinese immigration, vine diseases and uniform tariff rates. The Federation had the potential to ensure that throughout the continent, trade, and interstate commerce would be unaffected by protectionism and measurement and transport would be standardised.\n\nThe final (and successful) push for a Federal Council came at an Intercolonial Convention in Sydney in November and December 1883. The trigger was the British rejection of Queensland's unilateral annexation of New Guinea and the British Government wish to see a federalised Australasia. The convention was called to debate the strategies needed to counter the activities of the German and French in New Guinea and in New Hebrides. Sir Samuel Griffith, the Premier of Queensland, drafted a bill to constitute the Federal Council. The conference successfully petitioned the Imperial Parliament to enact the bill as the \"Federal Council of Australasia Act 1885\".\n\nAs a result, a Federal Council of Australasia was formed, to represent the affairs of the colonies in their relations with the South Pacific islands. New South Wales and New Zealand did not join. The self-governing colonies of Queensland, Tasmania and Victoria, as well as the Crown Colonies of Western Australia and Fiji, became involved. South Australia was briefly a member between 1888 and 1890. The Federal Council had powers to legislate directly upon certain matters, such as in relation to extradition, regulation of fisheries, and so on, but it did not have a permanent secretariat, executive powers, or any revenue of its own. Furthermore, the absence of the powerful colony of New South Wales weakened its representative value. \nNevertheless, it was the first major form of inter-colonial co-operation. It provided an opportunity for Federalists from around the country to meet and exchange ideas. The means by which the Council was established endorsed the continuing role that the Imperial Parliament would have in the development of Australia's constitutional structure. In terms of the \"Federal Council of Australia Act\", the Australian drafters established a number of powers dealing with their \"common interest\" which would later be replicated in the Australian Constitution, especially section 51.\n\nThe individual colonies, Victoria excepted, were somewhat wary of Federation. Politicians from the smaller colonies, in particular, disliked the very idea of delegating power to a national government; they feared that any such government would inevitably be dominated by the more populous New South Wales and Victoria. Queensland, for its part, worried that the advent of race-based national legislation would restrict the importing of kanaka labourers, thereby jeopardising its sugar cane industry.\n\nThese were not the only concerns of those resistant to federation. Smaller colonies also worried about the abolition of tariffs, which would deprive them of a large proportion of their revenue, and leave their commerce at the mercy of the larger states. New South Wales, traditionally free-trade in its outlook, wanted to be satisfied that the federation's tariff policy would not be protectionist. Victorian Premier James Service described fiscal union as \"the lion in the way\" of federation.\n\nA further fundamental issue was how to distribute the excess customs duties from the central government to the states. For the larger colonies there was the possibility (which never became an actuality) that they could be required to subsidise the struggling economies of Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia.\n\nEven without the concerns, there was debate about the form of government that a federation would take. Experience of other federations was less than inspiring. In particular, the United States had experienced the traumatic Civil War.\n\nThe nascent Australian labour movement was less than wholly committed in its support for federation. On the one hand, nationalist sentiment was strong within the labour movement and there was much support for the idea of White Australia. On the other hand, labour representatives feared that federation would distract attention from the need for social and industrial reform, and further entrench the power of the conservative forces. The federal conventions included no representatives of organised labour. In fact, the proposed federal constitution was criticised by labour representatives as being too conservative. These representatives wanted to see a federal government with more power to legislate on issues such as wages and prices. They also regarded the proposed senate as much too powerful, with the capacity to block attempts at social and political reform, much as the colonial upper houses were quite openly doing at that time.\n\nReligious factors played a small but not trivial part in disputes over whether federation was desirable or even possible. As a general rule, pro-federation leaders were Protestants, while Catholics' enthusiasm for federation was much weaker, not least because Parkes had been militantly anti-Catholic for decades (and because the labour movement was disproportionately Catholic in its membership).\n\nIn the early 1890s two meetings established the need for federation and set the framework for this to occur. An informal meeting attended by official representatives from the Australasian colonies was held in 1890. This led to the first National Australasian Convention, meeting in Sydney in 1891. New Zealand was represented at both the conference and the Convention, although its delegates indicated that it would be unlikely to join the Federation at its foundation, but it would probably be interested in doing so at a later date.\n\nThe Conference of 1890 was organised at the instigation of Parkes. The account of the calling of the 1890 conference usually begins with Lord Carrington, the Governor of New South Wales, goading the ageing Parkes at a luncheon on 15 June 1889. Parkes reportedly boasted that he \"could confederate these colonies in twelve months\". Carrington retorted, \"Then why don't you do it? It would be a glorious finish to your life.\" Parkes the next day wrote to the Premier of Victoria, Duncan Gillies, offering to advance the cause of Federation. Gillies's response was predictably cool, given the reluctance of Parkes to bring New South Wales into the Federal Council. In October Parkes travelled north to Brisbane and met with Griffith and Sir Thomas McIlwraith. On the return journey, he stopped just south of the colonial border, and delivered the historic Tenterfield Oration on 24 October 1889, stating that the time had come for the colonies to consider Australian federation.\n\nThrough the latter part of 1889 the premiers and governors corresponded and agreed for an informal meeting to be called. The membership was: New South Wales, Parkes (Premier) and William McMillan (Colonial Treasurer); Victoria, Duncan Gillies (Premier) and Alfred Deakin (Chief Secretary); Queensland, Sir Samuel Griffith (Leader of the Opposition) and John Murtagh Macrossan (Colonial Secretary); South Australia, Dr. John Cockburn (Premier) and Thomas Playford (Leader of the Opposition); Tasmania, Andrew Inglis Clark (Attorney-General) and Stafford Bird (Treasurer); Western Australia, Sir James George Lee Steere (Speaker); New Zealand, Captain William Russell (Colonial Secretary) and Sir John Hall.\n\nWhen the conference met at the Victorian Parliament in Melbourne on 6 February, the delegates were confronted with a scorching summer maximum temperature of in the shade. The Conference debated whether or not the time was ripe to proceed with federation.\n\nWhile some of the delegates agreed it was, the smaller states were not as enthusiastic. Thomas Playford from South Australia indicated the tariff question and lack of popular support as hurdles. Similarly, Sir James Lee Steere from Western Australia and the New Zealand delegates suggested there was little support for federation in their respective colonies.\n\nA basic question at this early assembly was how to structure the federation within the Westminster tradition of government. The \"British North America Act\" (1867), which had confederated the Canadian provinces, provided a model with respect to the relations between the federation and the Crown. There was less enthusiasm, however, for the centralism of the Canadian Constitution, especially from the smaller states. Following the conference of 1890, the Canadian federal model was no longer considered appropriate for the Australian situation.\n\nAlthough the Swiss Federal Constitution provided another example, it was inevitable that the delegates should look to the Constitution of the United States as the other major model of a federation within the English-speaking world. It gave just a few powers to the federal government and left the majority of matters within the legislative competence of the states. It also provided that the Senate should consist of an equal number of members from each State while the Lower House should reflect the national distribution of population. Andrew Inglis Clark, a long-time admirer of American federal institutions, introduced the US Constitution as an example of the protection of States' rights. He presented it as an alternative to the Canadian model, arguing that Canada was \"an instance of amalgamation rather than Federation.\" The introduction by Deakin of James Bryce's \"The American Commonwealth\" also had far-reaching influence.\n\nThe conference in Melbourne ended with an agreement by the delegates that the time for federation had arrived.\n\nA. I. Clark had given considerable thought towards a suitable constitution for Australia. In May 1890, he travelled to London to conduct an appeal on behalf of the Government of Tasmania before the Privy Council. During this trip, he began writing a draft constitution, taking the main provisions of the British North America Act and its supplements up through 1890, the US Constitution, the Federal Council of Australasia Act, and various Australian colonial constitutions. Clark returned from London by way of Boston, Massachusetts, where he held discussions about his draft with Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., and Moncure Conway among others.\n\nClark's draft introduced the nomenclature and form which was subsequently adopted:\n\n\nUpon his return to Hobart in early November 1890, with the technical aid of W. O. Wise, the Tasmanian Parliamentary Draftsman, Clark completed the final form of the Draft Constitution and had a number of copies printed. In February 1891, Inglis Clark circulated copies of his draft to Parkes, Barton and probably Playford as well. This draft was always intended to be a private working document, and was never published.\n\nThe Parliament proposed at the Convention of 1891 was to adopt the nomenclature of the United States Congress. This proposal provided the broad outline of a Federal government. Its lower house was to be elected by districts drawn up on the basis of their population, while in the Senate there was to be equal representation for each \"province\". This American model was mixed with the Westminster system by which the Prime Minister and other ministers would be appointed by the representative of the British Crown from among the members of the political party holding a majority in the lower House.\n\nGriffith identified with great clarity at the Sydney Convention perhaps the greatest problem of all: how to structure the relationship between the lower and upper houses within the Federal Parliament. The main division of opinion centred on the contention of Alfred Deakin, that the lower house must be supreme, as opposed to the views of Barton, John Cockburn and others, that a strong Senate with co-ordinate powers was essential. Griffith himself recommended that the doctrine of responsible government should be left open, or substantially modified to accord with the Federal structure.\n\nOver the Easter weekend in 1891, Griffith edited Clark's draft aboard the Queensland Government's steam yacht \"Lucinda\". (Clark was not present, as he was ill with influenza in Sydney). Griffith's draft Constitution was submitted to colonial parliaments but it lapsed in New South Wales, after which the other colonies were unwilling to proceed.\n\nThe importance of the draft Constitution of 1891 was recognised by John La Nauze when he flatly declared that \"The draft of 1891 is the Constitution of 1900, not its father or grandfather.\" In the Twenty-First Century, however, a lively debate has sprung up as to whether the principal credit for this draft belongs to Queensland's Sir Samuel Griffith or Tasmania's Andrew Inglis Clark. The debate began with the publication of Peter Botsman's \"The Great Constitutional Swindle: A Citizen's Guide to the Australian Constitution\" in 2000, and a biography of \"Andrew Inglis Clark\" by F.M. Neasey and L.J. Neasey published by the University of Tasmania Law Press in 2001.\n\nThe traditional view attached almost sole responsibility for the 1891 draft to Griffith. Quick and Garran, for instance, state curtly that Griffith \"had the chief hand in the actual drafting of the Bill.\" Given that the authors of this highly respected work were themselves active members of the federal movement, it may be presumed that this view represents - if not the complete truth - then, at least, the consensus opinion amongst Australia's \"founding fathers\".\n\nIn his 1969 entry on \"Clark, Andrew Inglis (1848–1907)\" for the \"Australian Dictionary of Biography\", Henry Reynolds offers a more nuanced view:Before the National Australasian Convention in Sydney in 1891 he [Clark] circulated his own draft constitution bill. This was practically a transcript of relevant provisions from the British North American Act, the United States Constitution and the Federal Council Act, arranged systematically, but it was to be of great use to the drafting committee at the convention. Parkes received it with reservations, suggesting that 'the structure should be evolved bit by bit'. George Higinbotham admitted the 'acknowledged defects & disadvantages' of responsible government, but criticized Clark's plan to separate the executive and the legislature. Clark's draft also differed from the adopted constitution in his proposal for 'a separate federal judiciary', with the new Supreme Court replacing the Privy Council as the highest court of appeal on all questions of law, which would be 'a wholesome innovation upon the American system'. He became a member of the Constitutional Committee and chairman of the Judiciary Committee. Although he took little part in the debates he assisted (Sir) Samuel Griffith, (Sir) Edmund Barton and Charles Cameron Kingston in revising Griffith's original draft of the adopted constitution on the Queensland government's steam yacht, \"Lucinda\"; though he was too ill to be present when the main work was done, his own draft had been the basis for most of Griffith's text. Clark's supporters are quick to point out that 86 Sections (out of a total of 128) of the final Australian Constitution are recognisable in Clark's draft, and that \"only eight of Inglis Clark’s ninety-six clauses failed to find their way into the final Australian Constitution\"; but these are potentially misleading statistics. As Professor John Williams has pointed out:It is easy to point to the document and dismiss it as a mere ‘cut and paste’ from known provisions. While there is some validity in such observations it does tend to overlook the fact that there are very few variations to be added once the basic structure is agreed. So for instance, there was always going to be parts dealing with the executive, the parliament and the judiciary in any Australian constitution. The fact that Inglis Clark modelled his on the American Constitution is no surprise once that basic decision was made. Issues of the respective legislative powers, the role of the states, the power of amendment and financial questions were the detail of the debate that the framers were about to address in 1891.As to who was responsible for the actual detailed drafting, as distinct from the broad structure and framework of the 1891 draft, Professor Williams (for one) is in no doubt:In terms of style there can be little argument that Inglis Clark’s Constitution is not as crisp or clean as Kingston’s 1891 draft Constitution. This is not so much a reflection on Inglis Clark, but an acknowledgement of the talents of Charles Kingston and Sir Samuel Griffith as drafters. They were direct and economical with words. The same cannot always be said of Inglis Clark.\n\nThe revival of the federal movement stemmed from the growth of federal leagues and nationalist organisations that were committed to federation, such as the Australian Natives' Association. There were two so-called People's Conventions held in Corowa and Bathurst.\n\nIn 1893 John Quick, who had attended the Corowa convention, drew up a bill which became the basis of discussion at the Adelaide Convention (see below) and is considered to have contributed largely to the eventual constitution. Quick with Robert Garran went on to publish \"The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth\" in 1901, which is widely regarded as one of the most authoritative works on the Australian Constitution.\n\nIn 1895 a proposal was accepted by the premiers of the Australian colonies to establish a new Convention by popular vote, with the resulting draft of the constitution being submitted to the electors of each colony in a referendum. The Convention held meetings over the course of a year, beginning first in Adelaide in 1897, later meeting in Sydney, and culminating in Melbourne in March 1898. After the Adelaide meeting, the colonial Parliaments took the opportunity to debate the emerging Bill and to suggest changes. The basic principles discussed in 1891 were adopted, with the addition of the principle of responsible government. There was also a consensus for more democracy in the constitutional structure. It was agreed that the Senate should be chosen by popular vote with the voters in each State acting as one electorate.\n\nA draft bill was drawn up in 1898, and then sent to each colony to be ratified by the electorate. Referendums were held in four of the colonies in June 1898. There were majority votes in all four of them, however, the enabling legislation in New South Wales required the support of at least 80,000 voters for passage, and this number was not reached. A meeting of the colonial premiers in early 1899 agreed to a number of amendments to make the constitution more acceptable to New South Wales. Known as the \"Braddon Clause\", the amendments provided for the return of customs revenue to the states for ten years. It was also agreed that the new federal capital was to be built in New South Wales provided it was at least a hundred miles (160 km) from Sydney. In June 1899, the referendum was held again in all the colonies except for Western Australia, where the vote was not held until the following year. The majority vote was \"yes\" in all the colonies.\n\nThe Bill as accepted by the colonies went to Britain for ratification by the British Parliament.\n\nThe \"Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act (UK)\" was passed on 5 July 1900 and given Royal Assent by Queen Victoria on 9 July 1900. It was proclaimed on 1 January 1901 in Centennial Park, Sydney. Sir Edmund Barton was sworn in as the interim Prime Minister, leading an interim Federal ministry of nine members.\n\nThe new constitution established a bicameral Parliament, containing a Senate and a House of Representatives. The office of Governor-General was established as the Queen's representative; initially, this person was considered a representative of the British government. The Constitution also established a High Court, and divided the powers of government between the states and the new Commonwealth government.\n\nThe site of a federal capital was disputed heavily between the two arch-rivals Sydney and Melbourne; the compromise was that a separate territory (the Australian Capital Territory) would be established within New South Wales to hold a new capital, while Parliament would sit in Melbourne until the new city was constructed. The site eventually chosen for the city became Canberra.\n\nThe significance of Federation for Australia is such that a number of landmarks, natural and man-made, have been named after it. These include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29114808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29114808", "title": "First Rutte cabinet", "text": "First Rutte cabinet\n\nThe First Rutte cabinet, also called the Rutte–Verhagen cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 14 October 2010 until 5 November 2012. The cabinet was formed by the political parties People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) and the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) after the election of 2010. The right-wing cabinet was a minority government in the House of Representatives but was supported by the Party for Freedom (PVV) for a majority. It was the first of three cabinets of Mark Rutte, the Leader of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy as Prime Minister, with Maxime Verhagen the Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal serving as Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the fourth Balkenende cabinet on 20 February 2010, elections for the House of Representatives were held on 9 June 2010. As usual in Dutch politics, none of the parties had a majority and several \"Informateurs\" were appointed to investigate the formation of a coalition cabinet. A broad coalition consisting of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, Christian Democratic Appeal and the Labour Party was briefly looked at, but dismissed. Then negotiations for a \"purple plus\" coalition consisting of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, Labour Party, Democrats 66 and GreenLeft lasted for about three weeks, but the parties could not reach agreement on the amount of budget cuts. Finally, a construction which is rare for the Netherlands was investigated: a minority coalition consisting of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and Christian Democratic Appeal (together 52 out of 150 seats in the House of Representatives), supported in parliament by the Party for Freedom (24 seats), to make the smallest possible majority of 76 seats. The reason for this construction was that parties agreed that the largest party the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and the largest winner in the elections needed to be in power; only the Christian Democratic Appeal could or wanted to help make a majority, but they were against forming a proper coalition with Party for Freedom because of their different views on Islam and immigration. Therefore, negotiations were held to form a coalition agreement between the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and Christian Democratic Appeal, and to form a \"parliamentary support agreement\" between all three parties, which were successfully finished on 30 September 2010.\n\nWhen Rutte took office on 14 October, it marked the first time that the VVD had led a government since its formation in 1946. It also marked the first liberal-led government since 1913.\n\nThe opposition parties expected that the coalition would prove to be unstable because at a special Christian Democratic Appeal conference, about a third of the Christian Democratic Appeal members voted against the formation of this cabinet. Also, in the Christian Democratic Appeal parliamentary fraction at least two people indicated they have difficulties with the cabinet, but say they will support it because the majority of the party approves of the cabinet. When the cabinet took office, the three parties had a minority in the Senate of 35 out of 75 seats. The parties hoped this would change following the Dutch Senate election of 2011, but they obtained 37 seats, one short of a majority. However, it is expected that the small Christian party Reformed Political Party, which obtained one seat, will support the cabinet in the Senate.\n\nThe cabinet consisted of 12 Ministers and 8 State secretaries. The positions where divided equally among the coalition members, regardless of their respective size: People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (31 seats in parliament) supplied 6 Ministers and 4 State secretaries, and Christian Democratic Appeal (21 seats) also supplied 6 Ministers and 4 State secretaries.\n\nIn accordance with the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy approach to \"laissez-faire\" and a small government the number of ministers and State Secretaries was reduced from the previous cabinet by merging several ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality was merged with the Ministry of Economic Affairs to vorm a combined Ministry Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation. The Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment was merged with the Ministry of Transport and Water Management to form the new Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. Also the portfolio of Public security was transferred from the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Ministry of Justice which was renamed as the Ministry of Security and Justice. Also the position of the Minister for Development Cooperation, a long serving Minister without portfolio title that had been used continuously since 1965 except for a small break from 2002 until 2003 was scrapped and replaced by the return of a Minister without portfolio for Immigration and Asylum Affairs like in the previous Cabinets Balkenende I, II and III, but this time the Minister without portfolio for Immigration and Asylum Affairs was placed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations instead of the Ministry of Security and Justice.\n\nBecause of the financial crisis in the Netherlands and because of the rules of the Euro convergence criteria that the deficit should be maximum 3%, the Leaders of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy Mark Rutte, Christian Democratic Appeal Maxime Verhagen and the Party for Freedom Geert Wilders decided to talk with each other about new, severe austerity measures, worth about 14 billion Euro. The negotiations about the measures were held in the Catshuis and lasted 7 weeks and ended on 21 April when Geert Wilders walked out of the negotiations. The reason he gave was that the measure would negatively impact people who receive benefits from the pensions law. Both Mark Rutte and Maxime Verhagen blamed Wilders for the failure of the negotiations. As a result, the government resigned and a new election was called.\n\nOn 16 December 2011 Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations Piet Hein Donner (CDA) resigned after he was nominated as the new Vice-President of the Council of State succeeding Herman Tjeenk Willink. He was replaced as Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations by former Chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Appeal Liesbeth Spies. Piet Hein Donner as Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations was responsible for the portfolio of Integration. When he resigned the Integration portfolio was transferred to Minister without portfolio Gerd Leers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27033486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27033486", "title": "Fundamental rights in the German Constitution", "text": "Fundamental rights in the German Constitution\n\nFundamental Rights in the Federal Republic of Germany (\"German: Grundrechte\") are a set of rights guaranteed to everyone in Germany and partially to German people only through their Federal Constitution, the \"Grundgesetz\" and the constitutions of some of the States of Germany. In the Federal Constitution, the majority of the \"Grundrechte\" are contained in the first title, Articles 1 to 19 of the Grundgesetz (GG). These rights have constitutional status, binding each of the country's constitutional institutions. In the event that these rights are violated and a remedy is denied by other courts, the constitution provides for an appeal to the Federal Constitutional Court (\"Bundesverfassungsgericht\") (Art. 93 (1) (4a) GG).\n\nAccording to this article, the Constitutional Court is entitled to hear appeals concerning not just the \"Grundrechte\" contained in Arts. 1-19, but also Arts. 20 (4), 33, 38, 101, 103 and 104. These rights are also therefore referred to as \"grundrechtsgleiche Rechte\" (rights equal to fundamental rights) or colloquially also as fundamental rights.\n\nIn addition to the \"Grundrechte\", the Constitution guarantees a number of other public rights, such as the uniform application of federal law between states (Art.28 (2)(1) GG) and the independence of the church (Art. 137 (3) of the Weimar Constitution and Art. 140 GG). These however are not \"Grundrechte\" as they are not contained under the first title of the constitution or in the appeal mechanism to the Federal Constitutional Court.\n\nThere are also lists of fundamental rights in the majority of state constitutions, which vary slightly from one another but are never capable of ruling out a \"Grundrecht\". \"Landesrechte\" (i.e. rights guaranteed by state constitutions) which mirror \"Bundesrechte\" (those guaranteed by the Federal Constitution) are therefore disregarded in favour of the \"Bundesrechte\". Many state constitutions which were written after the Federal Constitution do not contain their own lists of fundamental rights at all.\n\nAll the \"Grundrechte\" have a binding effect on each of the constitutional institutions, regardless of whether it is the executive, legislature or judiciary, federally or in one of the states (\"Länder\"). It is also irrelevant whether the state was directly or indirectly involved in the violation, whether it acted through public or private law or through legal entities under private law; public bodies are always bound by the \"Grundrechte\" (Art. 1(3) GG).\n\nRights under the German constitution can also be divided between universal fundamental rights (\"Jedermann-Grundrechte\"), which are afforded to everyone, and German fundamental rights (\"Deutschengrundrechte, Staatsbürgerrechte\" or \"Deutschenrechte\"), to which only Germans are entitled. The reason for the separation is largely due to democratic will and the protection of sovereignty.\n\nThe \"Deutschengrundrechte\" include the rights to freedom of assembly (Art. 8 GG), freedom of association (Art. 9 GG), freedom of abode (Art. 11 GG) and freedom to work (Art. 12 GG), as well as the right to vote and stand for public office. The restriction of these rights only to Germans does not just refer to German citizenship, German status being regulated by Art. 116 GG. While some \"Grundrechte\" apply only to Germans, there are some on which only non-Germans can rely, e.g. right to asylum (art. 16a GG). \n\nSome of the \"Deutschengrundrechte\" also apply for other citizens of the European Union with or without residence in Germany regarding their rights to move freely within Germany or to work. Nevertheless it is disputed whether all German fundamental rights apply to them in light of the prohibition of discrimination contained in Art. 18 (1) of the TFEU treaty. This article requires that all citizens of the EU are given equal status and equality of protection under all legal systems in the community.\n\nAccording to their contents, the \"Grundrechte\" can also be divided into freedom rights and equality rights.\n\nAlthough the Grundgesetz might be changed with a 2/3 majority of the Bundestag, the original Fundamental Rights are protected by article 19. Modification on the first 18 articles is only allowed as long as the essential contents remain unchanged.\n\n"}
{"id": "28273683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28273683", "title": "Garda National Immigration Bureau", "text": "Garda National Immigration Bureau\n\nThe Garda National Immigration Bureau (GNIB; Irish: \"Biúró Náisiúnta an Gharda Síochána um Inimirce\") is a unit of the Garda Síochána, the national police force of Ireland. \n\nThe GNIB is responsible for the execution of deportation orders, investigation of human trafficking complaints, investigation of language schools, countering illegal immigration and border control. It also provides support and assistance to local Garda Immigration Officers throughout the State.\n\nIt reports to Assistant Commissioner John O'Driscoll, and includes two Detective Superintendents, four Detective Inspectors, 24 Detective Sergeants and 180 Detective Gardaí and Gardaí. They are supported by 68 civilian staff. \n\nThe Bureau's headquarters is at 13/14 Burgh Quay, Dublin 2 and it also has offices also at Dublin Airport. \n"}
{"id": "32640236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32640236", "title": "Guyana Civil Aviation Authority", "text": "Guyana Civil Aviation Authority\n\nThe Guyana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) is a government agency of Guyana overseeing civil aviation. Its headquarters are in Georgetown. The agency investigates aviation accidents and incidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42342018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42342018", "title": "Identity-based security", "text": "Identity-based security\n\nIdentity-based security is an approach to control access to a digital product or service based on the authenticated identity of an individual. This allows organizations to grant access to specific users to access a variety of digital services using the same credentials, ensuring the accurate match between what users are entitled to and what they actually receive, while also permitting other access constraints such as company, device, location and application type (attributes). Underpinning the identity-based security approach is the Identity-Based Access Control (IBAC), (or identity-based licensing) concept.\n\nNIST defines identity-based security policies as policies \"based on the identities and/or attributes of the object (system resource) being accessed and of the subject (user, group of users, process, or device) requesting access.\"\n\nSome of the advantages of the identity-based security approach include the ability to exercise very fine-grained control over who is allowed to use which services and which functions those users can perform, and that it is device-agnostic, offering the possibility to enforce access control policy across a variety of devices, such as smartphones, tablets, and PCs.\n\nThe identity-based security network security approach put forward by Cyberoam includes security components that provides visibility and control over user activity in a particular network. It offers a network security system which includes a user's human identity as a part of the firewall rule matching criteria.\n\nThe concept includes treating a user's identity as the 8th Layer (also known as the human layer) in the network protocol stack, thus attaching user identity to security while authenticating, authorizing and auditing the network. This takes a different step from conventional security appliances, which bind security to IP-addresses. Such an approach allows organisations to create security policies that align to users and groups rather than to IP addresses which ultimately gives them more precise control over who can access the network—and what they can access.\n\nIdentity-based security prevents systems against address spoofing attacks by combining the point of encryption, authentication, and access control into a single unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906475", "title": "Latvian Farmers' Union", "text": "Latvian Farmers' Union\n\nThe Latvian Farmers' Union (, LZS) is a centrist and agrarian political party in Latvia.\n\nFounded in 1917, the party was the most influential conservative party in Latvia in the period from Independence in 1918 until the self-coup led by Kārlis Ulmanis in 1934, and the second most popular party overall after the Latvian Social Democratic Workers' Party. Ulmanis, who was a member of the party, banned all political parties after his coup including the LZS. As Latvia was subsequently occupied during the course of the Second World War, the party was dormant until it reformed in 1990 when Latvia regained its independence. Immediately after the restoration of independence, there existed several groups competing at elections to claim the legacy of the pre-war LZS. Since 2002 it has been part of the Union of Greens and Farmers (\"ZZS\") coalition, along with the Latvian Green Party. The coalition now includes For Latvia and Ventspils and the Liepāja Party, who have cooperation agreements with the party allowing their members to be elected to the Saeima on the list of the Union of Greens and Farmers. The coalition faction is currently the third largest in the Saeima and the LZS has 9 out of the 21 seats it holds. Since May 2014 the party has had one member of the European Parliament, Iveta Grigule, who sits with the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats group, having previously sat with the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy group and as a Non-Attached Member.\n"}
{"id": "1013776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1013776", "title": "Lok Sangharsh Morcha", "text": "Lok Sangharsh Morcha\n\nLok Sangharsh Morcha (People's Struggle Front) is led by Tarsem Jodhan, a former MLA who had represented the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Punjab, India. It was formed in 2000.\n\nIts membership comes primarily from brick-kiln workers, rural peasants, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act workers and trade union workers.\n"}
{"id": "41391191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41391191", "title": "MuckRock", "text": "MuckRock\n\nMuckRock is a United States-based 501(c)(3) non-profit organization which assists anyone in filing governmental requests for information through the Freedom of Information Act, then publishes the returned information on its website and encourages journalism around it.\n\nMuckRock was founded by Michael Morisy and Mitchell Kotler, graduates of Cornell University. The site's beta version went online in May 2010, and was part of the \"Boston Globe\"’s GlobeLab incubator program. MuckRock was granted a 501(c)(3) non-profit status by the IRS in June 2016. On June 11, 2018, MuckRock announced they would be merging with DocumentCloud.\n\nFiling requests for information through the Freedom of Information Act has been described as confusing and tedious, despite the intent that the process be public and the service available to all American citizens. MuckRock partially automates the process with an interface designed to make the filing of requests easier. Also, MuckRock acts as a middleman for processing the requests, so when a user makes a request through MuckRock, it is the staff of MuckRock who themselves make the request. When MuckRock makes the request, they note and timestamp it on their website as proof of it being made. When a reply comes to the request, MuckRock publishes and timestamps it openly so that everyone can see the reply and when it was made.\n\nIn 2010 MuckRock received a notice that the government had sent MuckRock information about the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program which was secret and that MuckRock must cease publishing it or its staff would face fines and jail time. The state later said that it would not jail MuckRock staff.\n\nThe Boston Police Department suspended an automatic number plate recognition program because of privacy concerns raised after a MuckRock request.\n\nMuckRock made numerous requests to various United States state and federal agencies regarding their work with Booz Allen Hamilton. The response from the Federal Bureau of Investigation was a bill for USD $270,000 to fulfill the request.\n\nMuckRock's request to the New York City Police Department for their guidebook on responding to FOIA requests was denied due to it being a confidential document.\n\nIn June 2014 MuckRock sued the CIA under the Freedom of Information Act for \"consistently ignoring deadlines, refusing to work with requesters, and capriciously rejecting even routine requests for what should be clearly public information\".\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation has made public records requests with MuckRock.\n"}
{"id": "6391582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6391582", "title": "Mzi Khumalo", "text": "Mzi Khumalo\n\nMzi Godfrey Khumalo (born 1955) is a South African businessman and mining entrepreneur.\n\nAfter serving 12 years on Robben Island alongside figures such as Nelson Mandela for his anti-apartheid activities, Mzi has built a corporate empire which encompasses mining, financial services and infrastructure industries and has served on a number of company boards. Mzi was the 27th prisoner of the year 1979 on Robben Island, prison number 2779 and was 24 when he was sentenced to 26 years behind bars for treason, by SA’s apartheid government.\n\nHe has held the position of Chairman at various companies including JCI Limited, Capital Alliance Holdings Limited and Point Waterfront Corporation.\n\nHe is also former Non-Executive Director of Mintek, Telkom SA, McCarthy Retail Limited, Ridge Mining and Anglo American Corporation and is a Trustee of the World Wildlife Fund.\n\nMzi holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of South Africa.\n\nHe is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Metallon Corporation. Additionally, he has interests in the telecommunications industry.\n\nHe has held the following positions :\n\n\nHe is the founder of the Mzi & Khosi Khumalo foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "34419120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34419120", "title": "National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care", "text": "National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care\n\nThe National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care (NIGB) was established in the United Kingdom under section 157 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008, with effect from October 2008, with a range of advisory functions relating to information governance. From January 2009, the NIGB also gained functions under section 251 of the NHS Act 2006 which had previously been held by the Patient Information Advisory Group (PIAG) until its abolition. These functions were to advise the Secretary of State for Health on the use of powers to set aside the common law duty of confidentiality in England where identifiable patient information is needed and where consent is not practicable. From 1 April 2013, the NIGB's functions for monitoring and improving information governance practice have transferred to the Care Quality Commission, which established a National Information Governance Committee to oversee this work. Functions relating to section 251 of the NHS Act 2006 (access to people’s personal and confidential information for research purposes) were transferred to the Health Research Authority's Confidentiality Advisory Group.\n\nThe key functions of the NIGB (excerpted from the legislation) were:\nThe definition of “relevant information” in the legislation covers patient information, any other information obtained or generated in the course of the provision of the health service, and any information obtained or generated in the course of the exercise by a local social services authority in England of its adult social services functions.\n\nSome areas of NIGB functions (d) and (e) above had been delegated to the NIGB’s Ethics and Confidentiality Committee (ECC). These functions primarily related to applications to use identifiable patient information without consent, in specific circumstances within the bounds of section 251 of the NHS Act 2006. These applications, which had been considered by PIAG before the NIGB, passed on to the Health Research Authority's Confidentiality Advisory Group (CAG) on 1 April 2013.\n\nThe NIGB had also replaced the Care Record Development Board (CRDB), which had closed in September 2007. The NIGB had subsequently maintained the NHS Care Record Guarantee which was originally developed by the CRDB and developed a companion Social Care Record Guarantee.\n\nThe NIGB had consisted of a Chair, a number of Public Members appointed by the NHS Appointments Commission, and a number of Representative Members appointed by the Secretary of State for Health from a range of stakeholder organisations. Representatives of several other stakeholder organisations had served as Corresponding Advisers to the NIGB but had not typically attended meetings. Regular observers at meetings had included representatives from the Information Commissioner's Office and the devolved UK administrations.\n\nThe ECC had consisted of a Chair and a number of Members, all of whom had been appointed by the NIGB with advice from an NHS Appointments Commission approved independent assessor. The ECC Chair and two ECC Members had also been NIGB Members.\n\nBetween 1 June 2011 and 31 March 2013 Dame Fiona Caldicott had been Chair of the NIGB, succeeding Harry Cayton who had chaired the NIGB since its inception.\n\nMembers of the NIGB and ECC had been widely distributed nationally but had attended meetings at the NIGB office. Since September 2011, this had been based at Skipton House, London SE1. The NIGB’s staff team had been predominantly based at this office.\n\nAs a result of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 the NIGB was abolished with effect from 1 April 2013. The functions delegated to the ECC with respect to research transferred to the Health Research Authority. The NHS Commissioning Board is now responsible for providing advice and guidance to NHS bodies. Other functions were transferred to the National Information Governance Committee hosted by the Care Quality Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "30795059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30795059", "title": "Nikolai Danielson", "text": "Nikolai Danielson\n\nNikolai Frantsevich Danielson (; also known as N-on, Nik-on, Nikolai-on; 7 February 1844, Moscow13 July 1918, Petrograd) was a Russian socio-political figure, economist, publicist, one of the theoreticians of liberal populism. He is also famous for translation of Das Kapital by Marx, and being a writer on Russian economic development.\n\nHe graduated from Commercial School in St. Petersburg, and later attended lectures in St. Petersburg's university.\n\nIn the 1860s Danielson worked at the St Petersburg Mutual Credit Association. Mutual credit associations were then often associated with utopian and social reform politics, and during that period, he became involved in radical political circles and took interest in one of the populist \"narodnik\" movement.\n\nIn 1872, Danielson published the first Russian translation of volume 1 of \"Das Kapital\" by Karl Marx. The translation had been initiated by Mikhail Bakunin before Bakunin's break with Marx and had been continued by German Lopatin. While completing the translation, Danielson initiated a correspondence with Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, which continued for the rest of their lives. Danielson also translated volumes 2 and 3 of \"Das Kapital\", which were published in 1885 and 1896. In 1880 Danielson published the article \"Studies of Our Post-Reform Economy\" in issue 10 of the journal \"Slovo\". Marx, who had taught himself Russian, commended it and encouraged Danielson to expand it into a book, which Danielson subsequently did. That book, bearing the same title, appeared in 1893. The book and the article on which it was based contained extensive statistical material on Russia's economic development.\n\nDanielson regarded himself as a Marxist, but was criticized by the self-proclaimed \"orthodox\" Marxists Georgi Plekhanov, Vladimir Lenin and Peter Struve, among others. Danielson's critics grouped him with populist writers like Vasily Vorontsov and Nikolay Mikhaylovsky. But whereas Vorontsov claimed that the development of industrial capitalism in Russia was impossible for lack of markets and Mikhailovsky thought that it was possible but undesirable and preventable, Danielson argued that capitalist industrialisation was already well under way in Russia by the 1890s. The \"orthodox\" Marxists agreed with him in this. However, in the 1890s, Plekhanov, Lenin and their associates argued that capitalism in Russia must follow essentially the same course as capitalist development in Western Europe. Danielson believed that the \"capitalist stage\" of development could be foreshortened in Russia, since Russia's late development would allow it to adopt the latest western industrial technology without having to undergo the social evolution that had first produced it in the West. This theory went back to A.I. Herzen and N.G. Chernyshevsky and strongly influenced the theoreticians of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party (PSR), such as Victor Chernov. It also anticipated Leon Trotsky's theory of \"uneven and combined development\". Danielson argued that capitalism was essentially dispensable for further economic development, and that industrialisation could continue on the basis of a socialist economy. Like the \"narodniks\", he saw the surviving peasant village communes as potential nuclei for a socialist organisation of the Russian economy. Plekhanov and Lenin denounced this as dangerous utopianism.\n\nIn the early 1900s, Danielson was briefly involved with the Russian Socialist-Revolutionary Party, but he did not play a very active role in it, and he withdrew after the \"Azef affair\" of 1908. (Yevno Azef was a prominent leader of the PSR and the chief of its terrorist organisation; in 1908 he was unmasked as a double agent for the Okhrana, the secret police.) Danielson seemed to have played no role in the Russian Revolution of 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "22945964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22945964", "title": "Octagon Press", "text": "Octagon Press\n\nOctagon Press was a cross-cultural publishing house based in London, UK. It was founded in 1960 by Sufi teacher, Idries Shah to establish the historical and cultural context for his ideas. The company ceased trading in 2014.\n\nOctagon Press published many of Shah's later works. In addition, the publishing house has produced translations of Sufi classics and titles by other notable authors, focusing on the fields of the humanities, cultural geography, literature, poetry, folklore, psychology, travel and philosophy.\n\nShah used Octagon Press to increase the availability of information on Afghanistan, aware that there would be a need for such information after the country's recent history. Two of his books, \"Darkest England\" (1987) and \"The Natives are Restless\" (1988), \"traced affinities between the English and Afghan peoples\".\n\nFor many years Octagon Press sold the academic monographs published by the London Institute for Cultural Research, now sold directly by the ICR. A number of the classical works have been published with the aid of the Sufi Trust.\n\nThe Octagon Press Limited was registered in the United Kingdom as a limited liability company at Companies House on 10 January 1972.\n\nIn 2014, it was stated on the official web site that \"The Octagon Press announces that it is to cease from trading in its current form. The works of Idries Shah will henceforth be represented by ISF Publishing, a part of The Idries Shah Foundation. Existing editions of Octagon Press titles will no longer be available. Idries Shah's corpus of work will be relaunched in entirety in new printed and eBook editions.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotable classical Sufi authors in translation include:\n\nThe compilation \"Four Sufi Classics\" contains:\n\nIdries Shah's books on Sufism have achieved wide critical acclaim. He was the subject of a BBC documentary (\"One Pair of Eyes: Dreamwalkers\") in 1970, and two of his works (\"The Way of the Sufi\" and \"Reflections\") were chosen as \"Outstanding Book of the Year\" by the BBC's \"The Critics\" programme. Among other honours, Shah won six first prizes at the UNESCO World Book Year in 1973, and the Islamic scholar James Kritzeck, commenting on Shah's \"Tales of the Dervishes\", said that it was \"beautifully translated\". At the time of his death, Shah's books had sold over 15 million copies in a dozen languages worldwide.\n\nNobel Prize–winning author Doris Lessing, who has also had work published by Octagon Press, praised Shah's many books and saw him as a \"good friend and teacher\".\n\nIdries Shah set up a charitable agency, Afghan Relief which operated from 1984 to 2002. Its aim was to provide medical, educational and other aid to refugees and Shah wrote books to assist in the operation, some of which are published by Octagon. The relief effort is also now carried out in association with The Institute for the Study Of Human Knowledge (ISHK) and their children's imprint, Hoopoe Books. Hoopoe provides books and complementary teaching materials to schools and children in Afghanistan, with official permission from Afghanistan's Minister of Education in Kabul. Hoopoe also provides relief for Pakistan.\n\nThe \"Kite Runner companion curriculum\", published by Amnesty International USA contains a list of books recommended for further reading by the Afghanistan Relief Organization (ARO, founded in 1998 and not to be confused with Shah's original Afghan Relief). These recommended books include several works for children by Idries Shah published by Hoopoe, and Ikbal Ali Shah's \"Afghanistan of the Afghans\" and works by Saira and Safia Shah published by Octagon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18571468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18571468", "title": "Oil and gas agreement", "text": "Oil and gas agreement\n\nThe oil and gas industry operates in countries throughout the world in accordance with a number of different types of agreements. These agreements generally fall into one of four categories (or a combination of the categories): risk agreements, concessions, production sharing agreements (PSAs, also known as production sharing contracts, PSCs) and service contracts. \n\nTraditional concession agreements pre-1940 were granted for large areas, sometimes the whole country e.g. Iraq. Those grants were for long term (50 to 99 years). The IOC had full discretion and control to explore and whether or\nnot to develop a particular field. \n\nThis caused developments to be delayed, postponed or the expected investment did not immediately materialise. This was clear against host governments interest. The contracts did not foreseen any relinquishment of non explored areas. Further more traditional concession agreements granted petroleum \"in situ\" to the IOC, with market and pricing powers. The royalties were flat or fixed for per unity rates and sometimes credited against income taxes. There were no or low signature bonus and sometimes no income taxation. Those terms were often \"frozen\" for the life of the agreement.\n\nAfter the Second World War host governments relocated economic rents with the aim of increasing passive profit sharing. Towards the 1960s and 1970s governments started to demand more active profit sharing through NOC Joint Ventures Participation.\n\nParticipation agreements: the NOC is \"Carried\" by an International Oil Company (IOC). The NOC burdens the IOC by not fully compensate the IOC for the risks assumed during exploration or to make a commercial discovery. The IOC faces the full losses and thus needs bigger success to compensate depending on NOC's share on the joint venture. However, the IOC benefit for example by having the NOC as partner when faced with nationalistic treats.\n"}
{"id": "23100410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23100410", "title": "Paris Economy Pact", "text": "Paris Economy Pact\n\nParis Economy Pact was an international economic agreement reached at the Paris Economic Conference held from 14 June 1916 in Paris, France. The meeting, held at the height of World War I, included representatives of the Allied Powers: United Kingdom, France, Italy, Japan, and Russia.\n\nThe pact was intended to isolate the Central Powers, the German Empire, the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, the Ottoman Empire and the Kingdom of Bulgaria. The Allied Powers envisioned isolating the Central Powers through trade sanctions after the war. A standing body, the \"Comité Permanent International d'Action Économique\", based in Paris, was established to monitor the implementation of the pact.\n\nThis pact was of great concern to the United States government, led by the Wilson Administration, which saw the continued fragmentation of Europe to be a risk for continued conflict. U.S. Secretary of State Robert Lansing asked the staff of the U.S. Embassy in Paris to monitor the proceedings (the United States, having not yet entered the war, was not part of the Allied Powers). The issue of central concern to the United States was that this pact included schemes for subsidization and government ownership of manufacturing enterprises and the division of European markets for the pact participants.\n\nThe outcome of the 1916 Paris Economic Conference foreshadowed the conflict between the United States and the Allied Powers during the Paris Peace Conference.\n\nThe past concern of the U.S. government with this Pact are fossilized even today in the United States Code, in Title 19, Section 1332(c), which gives the U.S. International Trade Commission the \"power to investigate the Paris Economy Pact and similar organizations and arrangements in Europe.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337980", "title": "Proporz", "text": "Proporz\n\nProporz (, from \"Proportionalität\") is a long-standing doctrine within the politics of the second Austrian republic that government posts be allocated to parties in proportion to their electoral support. However, recent developments, both internal and external, have arguably weakened the influence of the Proporz system in Austrian politics.\n\nUnder the Proporz system, the posts of Cabinet Ministers are filled by party members as closely as possible in proportion to the votes won by their respective parties in the general elections. Furthermore, the particular portfolios are selected by each party on the basis of its constituency or any perceived ideological mandate to them.\n\nThus, for example, the portfolio of Minister for Labour and Social Affairs was nearly always held by a member of the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ), while the conservative Austrian People's Party (ÖVP), with traditionally strong support from farmers, took the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment, & Water.\n\nIn this basic form, the principle would not be exclusive to Austria, but would be an element of many countries which have coalition governments.\n\nThe Proporz system arose out of the need for balanced, consensual governance in the early years of Austria's second republic. At the time, the nation was consumed in an effort to rebuild the country after the devastation of World War II. Moreover, the nation was still haunted by the specter of the ideological factionalism which had characterized Austria's first republic (cf. the events of the Austrian Civil War). Thus, the doctrine of Proporz is intimately linked to the idea of the grand coalition, in which the major political parties, in the case of post-war Austria the SPÖ and the ÖVP, share in the government.\n\nThe memories of the factionalism that characterised the First Republic were so strong that even after the ÖVP won an absolute majority in the first postwar election, in 1945, it immediately sought a coalition with the SPÖ. Even when one major party governed alone (as the ÖVP did from 1966 to 1970 and the SPÖ did from 1970 to 1983), the other party was never really shut out of decision-making.\n\nHowever, the doctrine was later charged with having degenerated into a system of patronage and nepotism pervading too many aspects of Austrian life. Positions down to minor bureaucratic posts were commonly allocated by party membership. The reaches of Proporz went as far as the educational system and even the banking business, in which political parties and municipalities were traditionally tightly involved.\n\nResentment of the system among large reaches of the population had become widespread by the late 1990s, and it is believed that Jörg Haider's criticism of Proporz gained him the support of many centrist voters who were not necessarily supporters of his nationalist and anti-immigration rhetoric.\n\nWhen his then-party, the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ), joined the government in 2000, many were expecting a discontinuation of the system in all fields except government itself. However, few people today would claim that this has happened. Haider's followers contend that reforms were stymied by the resistance of the FPÖ's coalition partner, the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). His detractors hold that Haider had never had a true reform in mind, but merely endeavoured to heave members of his own political disposition into positions of power (a practice referred to as \"umfärben\" in German, which roughly translates as 're-coloring').\n\nIt is probably fair to say that the major impetus for the rescaling of Austria's system of Proporz was of an external nature. Austria's membership in the European Union reduced the degree to which government is allowed to interfere in private businesses such as telecommunications and banking, where Proporz had been all-pervading.\n\nA diversified media and the possibilities of modern information technology also hold the government to higher standards of transparency and accountability. Above all, there has been a sea change in the public's attitude to the practice and its willingness to confront it.\n\nIn conclusion, it can be argued that while they have not altogether vanished from the politics of Austria, the ideas of Proporz are much less pervasive today than they were only a decade ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "6145996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6145996", "title": "Racial nationalism", "text": "Racial nationalism\n\nRacial nationalism is an ideology that advocates a racial definition of national identity. Racial nationalism seeks to preserve a given race through policies such as banning race mixing and the immigration of other races.\n\n"}
{"id": "57464829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57464829", "title": "Red Terror (Hungary)", "text": "Red Terror (Hungary)\n\nThe Red Terror in Hungary () was a period of heightened political tension and suppression in 1919 during the four-month period of the Hungarian Soviet Republic, primarily towards anti-communist forces. The communist party and communist policies had considerable popular support among the proletarian masses of large industrial centers - especially in Budapest - where the working class represented a higher ratio of the inhabitants. In the Hungarian countryside, the authority of the government was often nonexistent, serving as a launch-point for anti-communist insurgency. The new government followed the Soviet solution: the party established its revolutionary terror groups (such as the infamous \"Lenin Boys\") to \"overcome the obstacles\" of the worker's revolution. It received its name in reference to the Red Terror of Soviet Russia. It was soon followed by the White Terror against communists, industrial workers and Jews.\n\nIn March 1919, the Party of Communists in Hungary, in alliance with the Social Democratic Party of Hungary, gained control of the government of Hungary after president Mihály Károlyi stepped aside. Soon after, a coup by Party of Communists in Hungary, led by Béla Kun, established the Hungarian Soviet Republic.\n\nTibor Szamuely wrote in the pages of the \"Vörös Újság\" (\"Red News\"): \"Everywhere counter-revolutionaries run about and swagger; beat them down! Beat their heads where you find them! If counter-revolutionaries were to gain the upper hand for even a single hour, there will be no mercy for any proletarian. Before they stifle the revolution, suffocate them in their own blood!\" With their support, József Cserny organised a group of some 200 individuals known as \"Lenin Boys\" (\"Lenin-fiúk\"), whose intention was to uncover \"counter-revolutionary\" activities in the Hungarian countryside. Similar groups operated within Budapest.\n\nTwo months after gaining power, the government attempted to restore Hungary to its pre-World War I boundaries, first by recapturing parts of present-day Slovakia, and then attempting to recapture Transylvania from Romania. These unsuccessful recapture attempts, as well as the inefficacy of the government during the war period, lowered the popular support for the Communist Party, and on June 24 the Social Democratic Party attempted a coup to take control of the government. This attempted coup failed, and in its wake a series of reprisal arrests and lootings occurred in retaliation against the Social Democrats.\n\nThe revolutionary tribunals executed between 370 and 587 of those in custody; others have placed the number at 590.\n\nThe Hungarian Soviet Republic ended in the first week of August 1919, when Romanian forces pushed all the way into Budapest. Kun went into exile in Russia; Szamuely fled to Austria but was captured and killed there. József Cserny was arrested and tried in November 1919; the Hungarian Bar Association refused to defend him at trial, so a lawyer was appointed by the court. He was executed in December.\n\nAs was common in the political unrest of the 20th century, the Red Terror was answered by a wave of counter-reprisals once the Party of Communists leadership fled. These attacks on leftists, remaining revolutionaries and Jews are known as the \"White Terror\" and were far more brutal, extensive and indiscriminate than the Red Terror.\n\n"}
{"id": "25755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25755", "title": "Republicanism", "text": "Republicanism\n\nRepublicanism is a political ideology centred on citizenship in a state organized as a republic under which the people hold popular sovereignty. Many countries are \"republics\" in the sense that they are not monarchies.\nThe word \"republic\" derives from the Latin noun-phrase \"res publica\", which referred to the system of government that emerged in the 6th century BCE following the expulsion of the kings from Rome by Lucius Junius Brutus and Collatinus.\nThis form of government in the Roman state collapsed in the latter part of the 1st century BCE, giving way to what was a monarchy in form, if not in name. Republics recurred subsequently, with, for example, Renaissance Florence or early modern Britain. The concept of a republic became a powerful force in Britain's North American colonies, where it contributed to the American Revolution. In Europe, it gained enormous influence through the French Revolution and through the First French Republic of 1792–1804.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, several philosophers and historians analyzed and described elements we now recognize as classical republicanism. Traditionally, the Greek concept of \"politeia\" was rendered into Latin as res publica. Consequently, political theory until relatively recently often used republic in the general sense of \"regime\". There is no single written expression or definition from this era that exactly corresponds with a modern understanding of the term \"republic\" but most of the essential features of the modern definition are present in the works of Plato, Aristotle, and Polybius. These include theories of mixed government and of civic virtue. For example, in \"The Republic\", Plato places great emphasis on the importance of civic virtue (aiming for the good) together with personal virtue ('just man') on the part of the ideal rulers. Indeed, in Book V, Plato asserts that until rulers have the nature of philosophers (Socrates) or philosophers become the rulers, there can be no civic peace or happiness.\n\nA number of Ancient Greek city-states such as Athens and Sparta have been classified as \"classical republics\", because they featured extensive participation by the citizens in legislation and political decision-making. Aristotle considered Carthage to have been a republic as it had a political system similar to that of some of the Greek cities, notably Sparta, but avoided some of the defects that affected them.\n\nBoth Livy, a Roman historian, and Plutarch, who is noted for his biographies and moral essays, described how Rome had developed its legislation, notably the transition from a \"kingdom\" to a \"republic\", by following the example of the Greeks. Some of this history, composed more than 500 years after the events, with scant written sources to rely on, may be fictitious reconstruction.\n\nThe Greek historian Polybius, writing in the mid-2nd century BCE, emphasized (in Book 6) the role played by the Roman Republic as an institutional form in the dramatic rise of Rome's hegemony over the Mediterranean. Polybius exerted a great influence on Cicero as he wrote his politico-philosophical works in the 1st century BCE. In one of these works, \"De re publica\", Cicero linked the Roman concept of \"res publica\" to the Greek \"politeia\".\n\nThe modern term \"republic\", despite its derivation, is not synonymous with the Roman \"res publica\". Among the several meanings of the term \"res publica\", it is most often translated \"republic\" where the Latin expression refers to the Roman state, and its form of government, between the era of the Kings and the era of the Emperors. This Roman Republic would, by a modern understanding of the word, still be defined as a true republic, even if not coinciding entirely. Thus, Enlightenment philosophers saw the Roman Republic as an ideal system because it included features like a systematic separation of powers.\n\nRomans still called their state \"Res Publica\" in the era of the early emperors because, on the surface, the organization of the state had been preserved by the first emperors without significant alteration. Several offices from the Republican era, held by individuals, were combined under the control of a single person. These changes became permanent, and gradually conferred sovereignty on the Emperor.\n\nCicero's description of the ideal state, in \"De re Publica\", does not equate to a modern-day \"republic\"; it is more like enlightened absolutism. His philosophical works were influential when Enlightenment philosophers such as Voltaire developed their political concepts.\n\nIn its classical meaning, a republic was any stable well-governed political community. Both Plato and Aristotle identified three forms of government: democracy, aristocracy, and monarchy. First Plato and Aristotle, and then Polybius and Cicero, held that the ideal republic is a mixture of these three forms of government. The writers of the Renaissance embraced this notion.\n\nCicero expressed reservations concerning the republican form of government. While in his \"theoretical\" works he defended monarchy, or at least a mixed monarchy/oligarchy, in his own political life, he generally opposed men, like Julius Caesar, Mark Antony, and Octavian, who were trying to realise such ideals. Eventually, that opposition led to his death and Cicero can be seen as a victim of his own Republican ideals.\n\nTacitus, a contemporary of Plutarch, was not concerned with whether a form of government could be analyzed as a \"republic\" or a \"monarchy\". He analyzed how the powers accumulated by the early Julio-Claudian dynasty were all given by a State that was still notionally a republic. Nor was the Roman Republic \"forced\" to give away these powers: it did so freely and reasonably, certainly in Augustus' case, because of his many services to the state, freeing it from civil wars and disorder.\n\nTacitus was one of the first to ask whether such powers were given to the head of state because the citizens wanted to give them, or whether they were given for other reasons (for example, because one had a deified ancestor). The latter case led more easily to abuses of power. In Tacitus' opinion, the trend away from a true republic was \"irreversible\" only when Tiberius established power, shortly after Augustus' death in 14 CE (much later than most historians place the start of the Imperial form of government in Rome). By this time, too many principles defining some powers as \"untouchable\" had been implemented.\n\nIn Europe, republicanism was revived in the late Middle Ages when a number of states, which arose from medieval communes, embraced a republican system of government. These were generally small but wealthy trading states in which the merchant class had risen to prominence. Haakonssen notes that by the Renaissance, Europe was divided, such that those states controlled by a landed elite were monarchies, and those controlled by a commercial elite were republics. The latter included the Italian city-states of Florence, Genoa, and Venice and members of the Hanseatic League. One notable exception was Dithmarschen, a group of largely autonomous villages, who confederated in a peasants' republic. Building upon concepts of medieval feudalism, Renaissance scholars used the ideas of the ancient world to advance their view of an ideal government. Thus the republicanism developed during the Renaissance is known as 'classical republicanism' because it relied on classical models. This terminology was developed by Zera Fink in the 1960s, but some modern scholars, such as Brugger, consider it confuses the \"classical republic\" with the system of government used in the ancient world. 'Early modern republicanism' has been proposed as an alternative term. It is also sometimes called civic humanism. Beyond simply a non-monarchy, early modern thinkers conceived of an \"ideal\" republic, in which mixed government was an important element, and the notion that virtue and the common good were central to good government. Republicanism also developed its own distinct view of liberty.\nRenaissance authors who spoke highly of republics were rarely critical of monarchies. While Niccolò Machiavelli's \"Discourses on Livy\" is the period's key work on republics, he also wrote the treatise \"The Prince,\" which is better remembered and more widely read, on how best to run a monarchy. The early modern writers did not see the republican model as universally applicable; most thought that it could be successful only in very small and highly urbanized city-states. Jean Bodin in \"Six Books of the Commonwealth\" (1576) identified monarchy with republic.\n\nClassical writers like Tacitus, and Renaissance writers like Machiavelli tried to avoid an outspoken preference for one government system or another. Enlightenment philosophers, on the other hand, expressed a clear opinion. Thomas More, writing before the Age of Enlightenment, was too outspoken for the reigning king's taste, even though he coded his political preferences in a utopian allegory.\n\nIn England a type of republicanism evolved that was not wholly opposed to monarchy; thinkers such as Thomas More and Sir Thomas Smith saw a monarchy, firmly constrained by law, as compatible with republicanism.\n\nAnti-monarchism became more strident in the Dutch Republic during and after the Eighty Years' War, which began in 1568. This anti-monarchism was more propaganda than a political philosophy; most of the anti-monarchist works appeared in the form of widely distributed pamphlets. This evolved into a systematic critique of monarchy, written by men such as the brothers Johan and Peter de la Court. They saw all monarchies as illegitimate tyrannies that were inherently corrupt. These authors were more concerned with preventing the position of Stadholder from evolving into a monarchy, than with attacking their former rulers. Dutch republicanism also influenced on French Huguenots during the Wars of Religion. In the other states of early modern Europe republicanism was more moderate.\n\nIn the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, republicanism was the influential ideology. After the establishment of the Commonwealth of Two Nations, republicans supported the status quo, of having a very weak monarch, and opposed those who thought a stronger monarchy was needed. These mostly Polish republicans, such as Łukasz Górnicki, Andrzej Wolan, and Stanisław Konarski, were well read in classical and Renaissance texts and firmly believed that their state was a republic on the Roman model, and started to call their state the Rzeczpospolita. Atypically, Polish–Lithuanian republicanism was not the ideology of the commercial class, but rather of the landed nobility, which would lose power if the monarchy were expanded. This resulted in an oligarchy of the great landed magnates.\n\nOliver Cromwell set up a republic called the Commonwealth of England (1649–1660) which he ruled after the overthrow of King Charles I. James Harrington was then a leading philosopher of republicanism. John Milton was another important Republican thinker at this time, expressing his views in political tracts as well as through poetry and prose. In his epic poem \"Paradise Lost\", for instance, Milton uses Satan’s fall to suggest that unfit monarchs should be brought to justice, and that such issues extend beyond the constraints of one nation. As Christopher N. Warren argues, Milton offers “a language to critique imperialism, to question the legitimacy of dictators, to defend free international discourse, to fight unjust property relations, and to forge new political bonds across national lines.” This form of international Miltonic republicanism has been influential on later thinkers including 19th-century radicals Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, according to Warren and other historians.\n\nThe collapse of the Commonwealth of England in 1660 and the restoration of the monarchy under Charles II discredited republicanism among England's ruling circles. Nevertheless, they welcomed the liberalism, and emphasis on rights, of John Locke, which played a major role in the Glorious Revolution of 1688. Even so, republicanism flourished in the \"country\" party of the early 18th century (commonwealthmen), which denounced the corruption of the \"court\" party, producing a political theory that heavily influenced the American colonists. In general, the English ruling classes of the 18th century vehemently opposed republicanism, typified by the attacks on John Wilkes, and especially on the American Revolution and the French Revolution.\n\nFrench and Swiss Enlightenment thinkers, such as Baron Charles de Montesquieu and later Jean-Jacques Rousseau, expanded upon and altered the ideas of what an ideal republic should be: some of their new ideas were scarcely traceable to antiquity or the Renaissance thinkers. Concepts they contributed, or heavily elaborated, were social contract, positive law, and mixed government. They also borrowed from, and distinguished republicanism from, the ideas of liberalism that were developing at the same time.\n\nLiberalism and republicanism were frequently conflated during this period, because they both opposed absolute monarchy. Modern scholars see them as two distinct streams that both contributed to the democratic ideals of the modern world. An important distinction is that, while republicanism stressed the importance of civic virtue and the common good, liberalism was based on economics and individualism. It is clearest in the matter of private property, which, according to some, can be maintained only under the protection of established positive law.\n\nJules Ferry, Prime Minister of France from 1880 to 1885, followed both these schools of thought. He eventually enacted the Ferry Laws, which he intended to overturn the Falloux Laws by embracing the anti-clerical thinking of the \"Philosophs\". These laws ended the Catholic Church's involvement in many government institutions in late 19th-century France, including schools.\n\nIn recent years a debate has developed over the role of republicanism in the American Revolution and in the British radicalism of the 18th century. For many decades the consensus was that liberalism, especially that of John Locke, was paramount and that republicanism had a distinctly secondary role.\n\nThe new interpretations were pioneered by J.G.A. Pocock, who argued in \"The Machiavellian Moment\" (1975) that, at least in the early 18th century, republican ideas were just as important as liberal ones. Pocock's view is now widely accepted. Bernard Bailyn and Gordon Wood pioneered the argument that the American founding fathers were more influenced by republicanism than they were by liberalism. Cornell University professor Isaac Kramnick, on the other hand, argues that Americans have always been highly individualistic and therefore Lockean. Joyce Appleby has argued similarly for the Lockean influence on America.\n\nIn the decades before the American Revolution (1776), the intellectual and political leaders of the colonies studied history intently, looking for models of good government. They especially followed the development of republican ideas in England. Pocock explained the intellectual sources in America:\n\nThe Whig canon and the neo-Harringtonians, John Milton, James Harrington and Sidney, Trenchard, Gordon and Bolingbroke, together with the Greek, Roman, and Renaissance masters of the tradition as far as Montesquieu, formed the authoritative literature of this culture; and its values and concepts were those with which we have grown familiar: a civic and patriot ideal in which the personality was founded in property, perfected in citizenship but perpetually threatened by corruption; government figuring paradoxically as the principal source of corruption and operating through such means as patronage, faction, standing armies (opposed to the ideal of the militia), established churches (opposed to the Puritan and deist modes of American religion) and the promotion of a monied interest – though the formulation of this last concept was somewhat hindered by the keen desire for readily available paper credit common in colonies of settlement. A neoclassical politics provided both the ethos of the elites and the rhetoric of the upwardly mobile, and accounts for the singular cultural and intellectual homogeneity of the Founding Fathers and their generation.\n\nThe commitment of most Americans to these republican values made the American Revolution inevitable. Britain was increasingly seen as corrupt and hostile to republicanism, and as a threat to the established liberties the Americans enjoyed.\n\nLeopold von Ranke in 1848 claimed that American republicanism played a crucial role in the development of European liberalism:\n\nBy abandoning English constitutionalism and creating a new republic based on the rights of the individual, the North Americans introduced a new force in the world. Ideas spread most rapidly when they have found adequate concrete expression. Thus republicanism entered our Romanic/Germanic world... Up to this point, the conviction had prevailed in Europe that monarchy best served the interests of the nation. Now the idea spread that the nation should govern itself. But only after a state had actually been formed on the basis of the theory of representation did the full significance of this idea become clear. All later revolutionary movements have this same goal... This was the complete reversal of a principle. Until then, a king who ruled by the grace of God had been the center around which everything turned. Now the idea emerged that power should come from below... These two principles are like two opposite poles, and it is the conflict between them that determines the course of the modern world. In Europe the conflict between them had not yet taken on concrete form; with the French Revolution it did.\n\nRepublicanism, especially that of Rousseau, played a central role in the French Revolution and foreshadowed modern republicanism. The revolutionaries, after overthrowing the French monarchy in the 1790s, began by setting up a republic; Napoleon converted it into an Empire with a new aristocracy. In the 1830s Belgium adopted some of the innovations of the progressive political philosophers of the Enlightenment.\n\n\"Républicanisme\" is a French version of modern republicanism. It is a form of social contract, deduced from Jean-Jacques Rousseau's idea of a general will. Ideally, each citizen is engaged in a direct relationship with the state, removing the need for identity politics based on local, religious, or racial identification.\n\n\"Républicanisme\", in theory, makes anti-discrimination laws unnecessary, but some critics argue that colour-blind laws serve to perpetuate discrimination.\n\nInspired by the American and French Revolutions, the Society of United Irishmen was founded in 1791 in Belfast and Dublin. The inaugural meeting of the United Irishmen in Belfast on 18 October 1791 approved a declaration of the society's objectives. It identified the central grievance that Ireland had no national government: \"...we are ruled by Englishmen, and the servants of Englishmen, whose object is the interest of another country, whose instrument is corruption, and whose strength is the weakness of Ireland...\" They adopted three central positions: (i) to seek out a cordial union among all the people of Ireland, to maintain that balance essential to preserve liberties and extend commerce; (ii) that the sole constitutional mode by which English influence can be opposed, is by a complete and radical reform of the representation of the people in Parliament; (iii) that no reform is practicable or efficacious, or just which shall not include Irishmen of every religious persuasion. The declaration, then, urged constitutional reform, union among Irish people and the removal of all religious disqualifications.\n\nThe event that above all influenced men's thoughts at that time was the French Revolution. Public interest, already strongly aroused, was brought to a pitch by the publication in 1790 of Edmund Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\", and Thomas Paine's response, \"Rights of Man\", in February 1791. Theobald Wolfe Tone wrote later that, \"This controversy, and the gigantic event which gave rise to it, changed in an instant the politics of Ireland.\" Paine himself was aware of this commenting on sales of Part I of \"Rights of Man\" in November 1791, only eight months after publication of the first edition, he informed a friend that in England \"almost sixteen thousand has gone off – and in Ireland above forty thousand\". Paine my have been inclined to talk up sales of his works but what is striking in this context is that Paine believed that Irish sales were so far ahead of English ones before Part II had appeared. On 5 June 1792, Thomas Paine, author of the \"Rights of Man\" was proposed for honorary membership of the Dublin Society of the United Irishmen.\n\nThe fall of the Bastille was to be celebrated in Belfast on 14 July 1791 by a Volunteer meeting. At the request of Thomas Russell, Tone drafted suitable resolutions for the occasion, including one favouring the inclusion of Catholics in any reforms. In a covering letter to Russell, Tone wrote, \"I have not said one word that looks like a wish for separation, though I give it to you and your friends as my most decided opinion that such an event would be a regeneration of their country\". By 1795, Tone's Republicanism and that of the society had openly crystallized when he tells us: \"I remember particularly two days thae we passed on Cave Hill. On the first Russell, Neilson, Simms, McCracken and one or two more of us, on the summit of McArt's fort, took a solemn obligation...never to desist in our efforts until we had subverted the authority of England over our country and asserted her independence.\"\n\nThe culmination was an uprising against British rule in Ireland lasting from May to September 1798 – the Irish Rebellion of 1798 – with military support from revolutionary France in August and again October 1798. After the failure of the rising of 1798 the United Irishman, John Daly Burk, an émigré in the United States in his \" The History of the Late War in Ireland\" written in 1799, was most emphatic in its identification of the Irish, French and American causes.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, anti-monarchism extended beyond the civic humanism of the Renaissance. Classical republicanism, still supported by philosophers such as Rousseau and Montesquieu, was only one of several theories seeking to limit the power of monarchies rather than directly opposing them. New forms of anti-monarchism, such as liberalism and later socialism, quickly overtook classical republicanism as the leading ideologies. Republicanism gained support, and monarchies were challenged throughout Europe.\n\nThe French version of Republicanism after 1870 was called \"Radicalism\"; it became the Radical Party a major political party. In Western Europe, there were similar smaller \"radical\" parties. They all supported a constitutional republic and universal suffrage, while European \"liberals\" were at the time in favor of constitutional monarchy and census suffrage. Most radical parties later favored economic liberalism and capitalism. This distinction between radicalism and liberalism had not totally disappeared in the 20th century, although many radicals simply joined liberal parties. For example, the Radical Party of the Left in France or the (originally Italian) Transnational Radical Party, which still exist, focus more on republicanism than on simple liberalism.\n\nLiberalism, was represented in France by the Orleanists who rallied to the Third Republic only in the late 19th century, after the comte de Chambord's 1883 death and the 1891 papal encyclical \"Rerum novarum\".\n\nBut the early Republican, Radical and Radical-Socialist Party in France, and Chartism in Britain, were closer to republicanism, and the left-wing. Radicalism remained close to republicanism in the 20th century, at least in France, where they governed several times with other left-wing parties (participating in both the Cartel des Gauches coalitions as well as the Popular Front).\n\nDiscredited after the Second World War, French radicals split into a left-wing party – the Radical Party of the Left, an associate of the Socialist Party – and the Radical Party \"valoisien\", an associate party of the conservative Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) and its Gaullist predecessors. Italian radicals also maintained close links with republicanism, as well as with socialism, with the \"Partito radicale\" founded in 1955, which became the Transnational Radical Party in 1989.\n\nIncreasingly, after the fall of communism in 1989 and the collapse of the Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution, France increasingly turned to Republicanism to define its national identity. Charles de Gaulle, presenting himself as the military savior of France in the 1940s, and the political savior in the 1950s, refashioned the meaning of Republicanism. Both left and right enshrined him in the Republican pantheon.\n\nRepublicanism became the dominant political value of Americans during and after the American Revolution. The \"Founding Fathers\" were strong advocates of republican values, especially Thomas Jefferson, Samuel Adams, Patrick Henry, Thomas Paine, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, James Madison and Alexander Hamilton.\n\nIn some countries of the British Empire, later the Commonwealth of Nations, republicanism has taken a variety of forms.\n\nIn Barbados, the government gave the promise of a referendum on becoming a republic in August 2008, but it was postponed due to the change of government in the 2008 election.\n\nIn South Africa, republicanism in the 1960s was identified with the supporters of apartheid, who resented British interference in their treatment of the country's black population.\n\nIn Australia, the debate between republicans and monarchists is still active and Malcolm Turnbull, former Prime Minister of Australia, has confirmed he supports a republic but only after the reign of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nOn 22 March 2015, Prime Minister Freundel Stuart announced that Barbados will move towards a republican form of government \"in the very near future\".\n\nAndrew Holness, the current Prime Minister of Jamaica, has announced that his government intends to begin the process of transitioning to a republic.\n\nIn New Zealand, there is also a republican movement.\n\nRepublican groups are also active in the United Kingdom. The major organisation campaigning for a republic in the United Kingdom is 'Republic'.\n\nThe Netherlands have known two republican periods: the Dutch Republic (1581–1795) that gained independence from the Spanish Empire during the Eighty Years' War, followed by the Batavian Republic (1795–1806) that after conquest by the French First Republic had been established as a Sister Republic. After Napoleon crowned himself Emperor of the French, he made his brother Louis Bonaparte King of Holland (1806–1810), then annexed the Netherlands into the French First Empire (1810–1813) until he was defeated at the Battle of Leipzig. Thereafter the Sovereign Principality of the United Netherlands (1813–1815) was established, granting the Orange-Nassau family, who during the Dutch Republic had only been stadtholders, a princely title over the Netherlands, and soon William Frederick even crowned himself King of the Netherlands. His rather autocratic tendencies in spite of the principles of constitutional monarchy met increasing resistance from Parliament and the population, which eventually limited the monarchy's power and democratised the government, most notably through the Constitutional Reform of 1848. Since the late 19th century, republicanism has had various degrees of support in society, which the royal house generally dealt with by gradually letting go of its formal influence in politics and taking on a more ceremonial and symbolic role. Nowadays, popularity of the monarchy is high, but there is a significant republican minority that strives to abolish the monarchy altogether.\n\nIn Sweden, a major promoter of republicanism is the Swedish Republican Association, smells bad of the Monarchy of Sweden.\n\nThere is a renewed interest in republicanism in Spain after two earlier attempts: the First Spanish Republic (1873–1874) and the Second Spanish Republic (1931–1939). Movements such as \"\", Citizens for the Republic in Spanish, have emerged, and parties like United Left (Spain) and the Republican Left of Catalonia increasingly refer to republicanism. In a survey conducted in 2007 reported that 69% of the population prefer the monarchy to continue, compared with 22% opting for a Republic. In a 2008 survey, 58% of Spanish citizens were indifferent, 16% favored a republic, 16% were monarchists, and 7% claimed they were \"Juancarlistas\" (supporters of continued monarchy under King Juan Carlos I, without a common position for the fate of the monarchy after his death). In the last years republicanism has been rising, especially among the young people.\n\nNeorepublicanism is the effort by current scholars to draw on a classical republican tradition in the development of an attractive public philosophy intended for contemporary purposes. With traditional socialism virtually defunct, it emerges as an alternative postsocialist critique of market society from the left.\n\nProminent theorists in this movement are Philip Pettit and Cass Sunstein, who have each written several works defining republicanism and how it differs from liberalism. Michael Sandel, a late convert to republicanism from communitarianism, advocates replacing or supplementing liberalism with republicanism, as outlined in his \"Democracy's Discontent: America in Search of a Public Philosophy.\"\n\nContemporary work from a neorepublican include jurist K. Sabeel Rahman's book \"Democracy Against Domination\", which seeks to create a neorepublican framework for economic regulation grounded in the thought of Louis Brandeis and John Dewey and popular control, in contrast to both New Deal-style managerialism and neoliberal deregulation. Philosopher Elizabeth Anderson's \"Private Government\" traces the history of republican critiques of private power, arguing that the classical free market policies of the 18th and 19th centuries intended to help workers only lead to their domination by employers. In \"From Slavery to the Cooperative Commonwealth,\" political scientist Alex Gourevitch examines a strain of late 19th century American republicanism known as labor republicanism that was the producerist labor union The Knights of Labor, and how republican concepts were used in service of workers rights, but also with a strong critique of the role of that union in supporting the Chinese Exclusion Act.\n\nIn the late 18th century there was convergence of democracy and republicanism. Republicanism is a system that replaces or accompanies inherited rule. There is an emphasis on liberty, and a rejection of corruption. It strongly influenced the American Revolution and the French Revolution in the 1770s and 1790s, respectively. Republicans, in these two examples, tended to reject inherited elites and aristocracies, but left open two questions: whether a republic, to restrain unchecked majority rule, should have an unelected upper chamber—perhaps with members appointed as meritorious experts—and whether it should have a constitutional monarch.\n\nThough conceptually separate from democracy, republicanism included the key principles of rule by consent of the governed and sovereignty of the people. In effect, republicanism held that kings and aristocracies were not the real rulers, but rather the whole people were. Exactly \"how\" the people were to rule was an issue of democracy: republicanism itself did not specify a means. In the United States, the solution was the creation of political parties that reflected the votes of the people and controlled the government (see Republicanism in the United States). Many exponents of republicanism, such as Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Paine, and Thomas Jefferson were strong promoters of representative democracy. Other supporters of republicanism, such as John Adams and Alexander Hamilton, were more distrustful of majority rule and sought a government with more power for elites. There were similar debates in many other democratizing nations.\n\nIn contemporary usage, the term \"democracy\" refers to a government chosen by the people, whether it is direct or representative. Today the term \"republic\" usually refers to representative democracy with an elected head of state, such as a president, who serves for a limited term; in contrast to states with a hereditary monarch as a head of state, even if these states also are representative democracies, with an elected or appointed head of government such as a prime minister.\n\nThe Founding Fathers of the United States rarely praised and often criticized democracy, which in their time tended to specifically mean direct democracy and which they equated with mob rule; James Madison argued that what distinguished a \"democracy\" from a \"republic\" was that the former became weaker as it got larger and suffered more violently from the effects of faction, whereas a republic could get stronger as it got larger and combatted faction by its very structure. What was critical to American values, John Adams insisted, was that the government should be \"bound by fixed laws, which the people have a voice in making, and a right to defend.\"\n\nSome countries (such as the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Scandinavian countries, and Japan) turned powerful monarchs into constitutional ones with limited, or eventually merely symbolic, powers. Often the monarchy was abolished along with the aristocratic system, whether or not they were replaced with democratic institutions (such as in France, China, Iran, Russia, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Greece, Turkey and Egypt). In Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Papua New Guinea, and some other countries the monarch, or its representative, is given supreme executive power, but by convention acts only on the advice of his or her ministers. Many nations had elite upper houses of legislatures, the members of which often had lifetime tenure, but eventually these houses lost much power (as the UK House of Lords), or else became elective and remained powerful.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30883853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30883853", "title": "Reset San Francisco", "text": "Reset San Francisco\n\nReset San Francisco is a Gov 2.0 website founded by Phil Ting, the assessor-recorder for the city of San Francisco. Launched in August 2010, the website is designed to give the residents of San Francisco Web 2.0 tools through which to engage in city issues. Its main purpose is to encourage civic discussion which it does through a number of forums focusing on themes such as education, jobs and tax reform. In addition it includes online polls and petitions on particular issues. It is an example of an increasing trend towards user generated government to give people more avenues through which to participate in politics.\n\nAlthough the website states itself primarily as a venue for the sharing of ideas, it has taken a position and led campaigns on certain issues.\n\nIn January 2011 Phil Ting used the website to criticize what he argued was the writing of excessive parking tickets in order to boost city tax revenue. 2,700 people signed the Reset San Francisco petition calling for a change in ticketing policy. Users of the website responded by calling for San Francisco to adopt a system similar to the \"One-Click Hearings\" recently established in New York City. This system allows New Yorkers to contest unfair parking tickets by submitting evidence online. The system claims to streamline the appeals process making the system fairer and more efficient.\n\nFollowing the news that San Francisco has plans to give a large tax break to the local company, Twitter, the website held a discussion to try to establish a consensus on the issue. A website poll showed 45% in favor, 44% opposed with the remaining 11% unsure. With no strong consensus the site ran dueling petitions on the issue.\n\nIn March 2010 Phil Ting and Reset San Francisco established an online campaign, petitioning City Hall to accept YouTube videos on the same basis as conventional public testimonial. The campaign aims to make it more convenient for the public to engage in city politics by using online tools. The current system requires citizens to attend city meetings which are generally held during regular working hours, preventing many working people from being able to participate in the political process. Ting's campaign argues that being busy should not prevent people from being involved, and that YouTube technology is a way to overcome this.\n\nReset San Francisco ran a community event in Golden Gate park on February 26 named Food for Thought. Over 250 citizens of San Francisco attended the event to discuss possible solutions to the city's problems. The participants split into various groups each leading discussion on a different theme such as transportation, housing and the environment. This was the first of several events intended to harness the discussion of the online community to help facilitate real world political engagement.\n\n"}
{"id": "5939333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5939333", "title": "Secure Network", "text": "Secure Network\n\nSecure Network is a small research and consulting company focusing on Information Security based in Milano, Italy and London, United Kingdom. Besides having notability in Italy, it received international exposure with a research project on Bluetooth security (co-sponsored by F-Secure) codenamed BlueBag, which has been also selected for the Black Hat Briefings conference 2006 in Las Vegas.\n\nIn 2009, it also organized SEaCURE.IT, the first international technical security conference ever held in Italy.\n"}
{"id": "852274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852274", "title": "Social policy", "text": "Social policy\n\nSocial policy is policy usually within a governmental or political setting, such as the welfare state and study of social services.\n\nSocial policy consists of guidelines, principles, legislation and activities that affect the living conditions conducive to human welfare, such as a person's quality of life. The Department of Social Policy at the London School of Economics defines social policy as \"an interdisciplinary and applied subject concerned with the analysis of societies' responses to social need\", which seeks to foster in its students a capacity to understand theory and evidence drawn from a wide range of social science disciplines, including economics, sociology, psychology, geography, history, law, philosophy and political science. The Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy at Harvard University describes social policy as \"public policy and practice in the areas of health care, human services, criminal justice, inequality, education, and labor\". Social policy might also be described as actions that affect the well-being of members of a society through shaping the distribution of and access to goods and resources in that society. Social policy often deals with wicked problems.\n\nThe discussion of \"social policy\" in the United States and Canada can also apply to governmental policy on social issues such as tackling racism, LGBT issues (such as same-sex marriage) and the legal status of abortion, guns, euthanasia, recreational drugs and prostitution.\n\nThe earliest example of direct intervention by government in human welfare dates back to Umar ibn al-Khattāb's rule as the second caliph of Islam in the 6th century. He used \"zakat\" collections and also other governmental resources to establish pensions, income support, child benefits, and various stipends for people of the non-Muslim community.\n\nIn the West, proponents of scientific social planning such as the sociologist Auguste Comte, and social researchers, such as Charles Booth, contributed to the emergence of social policy in the first industrialised countries following the industrial revolution. Surveys of poverty exposing the brutal conditions in the urban slum conurbations of Victorian Britain supplied the pressure leading to changes such as the decline and abolition of the poor law system and Liberal welfare reforms. Other significant examples in the development of social policy are the Bismarckian welfare state in 19th century Germany, social security policies in the United States introduced under the rubric of the New Deal between 1933 and 1935, and the National Health Service Act 1946 in Britain.\n\nSocial policy in the 21st century is complex and in each state it is subject to local and national governments, as well as supranational political influence. For example, membership of the European Union is conditional on member states' adherence to the Social Chapter of European Union law \n\nSocial policy is an academic discipline focusing on the systematic evaluation of societies' responses to social need. It was established in the early-to-mid part of the 20th century as a complement to social work studies. One can reasonably argue there is not a single clear and comprehensive definition of social policy. This is probably because social policy is more an area of study than a discipline, and also because the meaning of social policy has constantly evolved over time. For this reason, the founding fathers of the discipline (mainly sociologists, such as Thomas Humphrey Marshall, Titmuss, Peter Townsend (sociologist) and historians, such as Asa Briggs) mainly defined the domain by looking at its aims: to reduce poverty, insure against social risks, provide equal opportunity for all, enhance economic growth, and foster the expansion of social citizenship and social rights.\n\nScholars studied and categorized social security systems on the basis of their 'modes of intervention' (universalism, social insurance, social assistance). Of course, each welfare state system includes a mixture of these elements, but certain systems are geared toward universal principles, i.e. Sweden and Denmark. Others emphasize social insurance mechanisms, i.e. Germany and France. Still other focus on social assistance for the poor, i.e. the United Kingdom .\n\nSocial policy aims to improve human welfare and to meet human needs for education, health, housing and economic security. Important areas of social policy are wellbeing and welfare, poverty reduction, social security, justice, unemployment insurance, living conditions, animal rights, pensions, health care, social housing, family policy, social care, child protection, social exclusion, education policy, crime and criminal justice, urban development, and labor issues.\n\nReligious, racial, ideological, scientific and philosophical movements and ideas have historically influenced American social policy, for example, John Calvin and his idea of pre-destination and the Protestant Values of hard work and individualism. Moreover, Social Darwinism helped mold America's ideas of capitalism and the \"survival of the fittest\" mentality. The Catholic Church's social teaching has also been considerably influential to the development of social policy.\n\nUnited States politicians who have favored increasing government observance of social policy often do not frame their proposals around typical notions of welfare or benefits; instead, in cases like \"Medicare\" and \"Medicaid\", President Lyndon Johnson presented a package called the Great Society that framed a larger vision around poverty and quality of life. Insurance has been a growing policy topic, and a recent example of health care law as social policy is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act formed by the 111th U.S. Congress and signed into law by President Barack Obama, a Democrat, on March 23, 2010.\n\nMoreover, former president Franklin D. Roosevelt's ground breaking New Deal is a paragon example of Social Policy that focused predominantly on a program of providing work and stimulating the economy through public spending on projects, rather than on cash payment. The programs were in response to the Great Depression affecting the United States in the 1930s.\n\nAn American education policy proposal from a Republican president is the No Child Left Behind Act. This Act took effect on January 8, 2002, and was put in place to raise standards in education so different individuals can have better educational outcomes. The No Child Left Behind Act requires every state to assess students on basic skills to receive federal funding. However, this Act did not create a national standard since each state develops their own set of standards and assessments. Critics of most all social policies point toward a depiction of a welfare state on the make of a Hobbesian Leviathan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1134191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1134191", "title": "Social web", "text": "Social web\n\nThe social web is a set of social relations that link people through the World Wide Web. The social web encompasses how websites and software are designed and developed in order to support and foster social interaction. These online social interactions form the basis of much online activity including online shopping, education, gaming and social networking websites. The social aspect of Web 2.0 communication has been to facilitate interaction between people with similar tastes. These tastes vary depending on who the target audience is, and what they are looking for. For individuals working in the public relation department, the job is consistently changing and the impact is coming from the social web. The influence, held by the social network is large and ever changing.\n\nAs people's activities on the Web and communication increase, information about their social relationships become more available. Social networking sites such as MySpace and Facebook, as well as the future Dataweb enable people and organizations to contact each other with persistent human-friendly names. Today hundreds of millions of Internet users are using thousands of social websites to stay connected with their friends, discover new \"friends\", and to share user-created content, such as photos, videos, social bookmarks, and blogs, even through mobile platform support for cell phones. By the second quarter in 2017, Facebook reported 1.86 billion members, and, in 2008, MySpace occupied 100 million users and YouTube had more than 100 million videos and 2.9 million user channels, and these numbers are consistently growing. The social Web is quickly reinventing itself, moving beyond simple web applications that connect individuals to live an entirely new way of life.\n\nLike the telephone, the Internet was not created as a communication tool to interact socially, but evolved to become a part of everyday life. However, social interaction has been facilitated by the web for nearly the entire duration of its existence, as indicated by the continuing success of social software, which at its core centers around connecting individuals virtually with others whom they already have relationships with in the physical world. Email dates from the 1960s, and was one of the first social applications to connect multiple individuals through a network, enabling social interaction by allowing users to send messages to one or more people. This application, which some have argued may be the most successful social software ever, was actually used to help build the Internet. The web got its start as a large but simple Bulletin Board System (BBS) that allowed users to exchange software, information, news, data, and other messages with one another. Ward Christensen invented the first public BBS in the late 1970s, and another (named \"The WELL\") in the late 80's and early '90s arose as a popular online community. The Usenet, a global discussion system similar to a BBS that enabled users to post public messages, was conceived in 1979; the system found tremendous popularity in the 1980s as individuals posted news and articles to categories called \"newsgroups\". By the late 1990s, personal web sites that allowed individuals to share information about their private lives with others were increasingly widespread. On this fertile period of the web's development, its creator Sir Tim Berners-Lee wrote that:\n\nThe term \"social Web\" was coined by Howard Rheingold for this network in 1996; Rheingold was quoted in an article for \"Time\" on his website \"Electric Minds\", described as a \"virtual community center\" that listed online communities for users interested in socializing through the Web, saying that \"The idea is that we will lead the transformation of the Web into a social Web\".\n\nThe social Web developed in three stages from the beginning of the '90s up to the present day, transforming from simple one-way communication web pages to a network of truly social applications. During the \"one-way conversation\" era of online applications in the mid '90s, most of the nearly 18,000 web pages in existence were \"read only\", or \"static web sites\" with information flowing exclusively from the person or organization that ran the site; although the web was used socially at this time, communication was difficult, achieved only through individuals reacting to each other's posts on one web page by responding to them on their own personal web page. In the mid '90s, Amazon and other pioneers made great progress in advancing online social interaction by discovering how to link databases to their web sites in order to store information as well as to display it; in concert with other innovations, this led to the rise of read-write web applications, allowing for a \"two-way conversation\" between users and the individual or organization running the site. As these web applications became more sophisticated, people became more comfortable using and interacting with them, bandwidth increased, and access to the Internet became more prevalent, causing designers to begin implementing new features that allowed users to communicate not only with a site's publishers, but with others who visited that site as well. Despite being a small step forward technologically, it was a huge step socially, enabling group interaction for the first time, and it has been claimed that this social exchange between many individuals is what separates a web application from a \"social Web\" application.\n\nThe first social networking sites, including Classmates.com (1995) and SixDegrees.com (1997), were introduced prior to social media sites. It has been argued that the transition towards social media sites began after the world's first online interactive diary community Open Diary was founded on December 19, 1998; currently still online after ten years, it has hosted over five million digital diaries. Open Diary successfully brought online diary writers together into one community as an early social networking site, and it was during this time that the term \"weblog\" was coined (later to be shortened to the ubiquitous \"blog\" after one blogger jokingly turned weblog into the sentence \"we blog\"). Some claim that this marked the beginning of the current era of social media, with \"social media\" being a term that entered into both common usage and prominence as high-speed Internet became increasingly available, growing in popularity as a concept and leading to the rise of social networking sites such as Myspace (2003) and Facebook (2004). It has been argued that this trend towards social media \"can be seen as an evolution back to the Internet's roots, since it re-transforms the World Wide Web to what it was initially created for: a platform to facilitate information exchange between users.\"\n\nThe social Web is quickly becoming a way of life: many people visit social networking sites at least once per day, and in 2008 the average amount of time per visit to MySpace hovered around twenty-six minutes (the length of a sitcom). Furthermore, the astoundingly rapid growth of the social Web since the '90s is not projected to slow down anytime soon: with less than 20% of the world's population using the Internet, the social Web is felt by some to still be in its infancy. The line between social networking and social media is becoming increasingly blurred as sites such as Facebook and Twitter further incorporate photo, video, and other functionalities typical of social media sites into users' public profiles, just as social media sites have been integrating features characteristic of social networking sites into their own online frameworks. One notable change that has been brought about by the merging of social networking/media is the transformation of social web applications into egocentric software that put people at the center of applications. Although there had been discussion about a sense of community on the web prior to these innovations, modern social web software makes a wider set of social interactions available to the user, such as \"friending\" and \"following\" individuals, even sending them virtual gifts or kisses. Social Web applications are typically built using object oriented programming, utilizing combinations of several programming languages, such as Ruby, PHP, Python, ASP.NET and/or Java. Often APIs are utilized to tie non-social websites to social websites, one example being Campusfood.com.\n\nBoth blogs and Wikis are prime examples of collaboration through the Internet, a feature of the group interaction that characterizes the social Web. Blogs are used as BBS for the 21st century on which people can post discussions, whereas Wikis are constructed and edited by anyone who is granted access to them. Members of both are able to see the recent discussions and changes made, although for many blogs and Wikis such as Wikipedia this is true even for non-members. Blogs and Wikis allow users to share information and educate one another, and these social interaction are focused on content and meaning. Blogs and Wikis are used by both those writing them and those who reference them as resources. Blogs allow members to share ideas and other members to comment on those ideas, while Wikis facilitate group collaboration: both of these tools open a gateway of communication in which social interaction allows the web to develop. These sites are used by teachers and students alike to accomplish the goal of sharing education, and working in a community with other scholars enables the users to see different interpretations of similar subjects as well as to share resources that might not be available to them otherwise.\n\nThe lives of social web users are increasingly interconnected with their online profiles and accounts, such to the extent that many social networking and social media sites now offer support for mobile devices and internet phone connectivity. Popular social web sites such Facebook Mobile, Orkut, Twitter, and YouTube have led the way for other sites to enable their users to post and share new content with others, update their statuses and receive their friends' updates and uploaded content via mobile platforms.The central aim for both sites offering these mobile services and for those who use them is for the user to maintain contact with their friends online at all times; it allows them to update their profiles and to communicate with each other even when they are away from a computer. It is predicted that this trend will continue in the future, not as other sites follow suit to offer similar services, but as they are extended to other mobile devices that social web users will carry with them in years to come. Social web mobile applications can also allow for augmented reality gaming and experiences; examples of such include SCVGR and Layar.\n\nWeb sites that are not built around social interaction nevertheless add features that enable discussion and collaboration out of an interest in expanding their user bases—a trend that is projected to continue in the coming years. As early as 1995 electronic retailer Amazon had implemented such features, especially the customer review, to great success; Joshua Porter, author of \"Designing for the Social Web,\" writes:\n\nThese customer reviews contribute valuable information that individuals seek out, and are written by users for free simply out of a desire to share their experiences with a product or service with others; the quality and value of each review is further determined by other users, who rate them based upon whether or not they found the feedback helpful, \"weeding out the bad (by pushing them to the bottom [of the page]).\"\n\nNon-retailer, special interest websites have also implemented social web features to broaden their appeal: one example is Allrecipes.com, a community of 10 million cooks that share ideas and recipes with one another. In addition to exchanging recipes with others through the website, users are able to rate and post reviews of recipes they have tried, and to provide suggestions as to how to improve or alter them; according to the website, \"The ratings/reviews...are a valuable resource to our community because they show how the members and their families feel about a recipe. Does the recipe get raves—or does it never get made again? Your opinion counts\". This feedback is used to evaluate and classify recipes based upon how successfully they passed through the site's \"editorial process\" and to what extent they were approved by site members, potentially resulting in receiving \"Kitchen approved\" status that is comparable to Wikipedia's \"good article\" nomination process. The site has also augmented its services by including social features such as user blogs and connecting with other social networking/media sites like Facebook to expand its presence on the social Web. The recipes found on this website become part of the social web as other members rank them, comment and provide feedback as to why the recipe was good or bad, or to share ways in which they would change it.\n\nThe integration of \"social\" features has also begun to extend into non-Web media forms including print and broadcast. Increasingly prevalent mobile devices have offered a platform for media companies to create hybridised media forms which draw upon the social web, such as the Fango mobile app offered by Australian partnership Yahoo!7 which combines traditional TV programming with live online discussions and existing social networking channels.\n\nArtists use the social Web to share their art, be it visual art on sites like deviantART, video art on YouTube, musical art on YouTube or iTunes, or physical art, such as posting and selling crafted items on Craigslist. Artists choose to post their art online so that they can gain critiques on their work, as well as just have the satisfaction of knowing others can experience and enjoy their work. With this social web generation, students spend more time using social tools like computers, video games, video cameras and cell phones. These tools allow the art to be shared easily, and aid in the discussion.\n\nCrowdsourcing has become one of the ways in which the social Web can be used collaborative efforts, particularly in the last few years, with the dawn of the semantic web and Web 2.0. Modern web applications have the capabilities for crowdsourcing techniques, and consequently the term is now used exclusively for web-based activity. Examples include sites such as SurveyMonkey.com and SurveyU.com; for example, SurveyMonkey enables users to administer surveys to a list of contacts they manage, then collect and analyze response data using basic tools provided on the website itself and finally export these results once they are finished.\n\nCrowdsourcing is used by researchers in order to emulate a traditional focus group, but in a less expensive and less intimate atmosphere.\nDue to the nature of the social Web, people feel more open to express what their thoughts are on the topic of discussion without feeling as though they will be as heavy scrutinized by the rest of the group when compared to a traditional setting. The Internet serves as a screen, helping to evoke the purest feedback from the participants in the group, as it removes much of a mob mentality.\n\nFacebook has also been a mode in which crowdsourcing can occur, as users typically ask a question in their status message hoping those that see it on his or her news feed will answer the question, or users may opt to use the poll option now available to obtain information from those within their friends network.\n\nThrough the use of the social Web, many software developers opt to participate in community-based open-source software projects, as well as hacking projects for proprietary software, kernel (computing) modifications, and freeware ports of games and software. Linux iterations are perfect examples of how effective and efficient this sort of collaboration can be. Google's Android operating system is another example, as many coders work on modifying existing hardware kernels and ROMs to create customized forms of a released Android version. These collaborative efforts for Android take place typically through xda-developers and androidforums.com.\n\nMost of the modern mobile applications, and indeed even browser applications, come from released software development kits to developers. The developers create their applications and share them with users via \"app markets\". Users can comment on their experiences with the applications, allowing all users to view the comments of others, and thus have a greater understanding of what is to be expected from the application. Typically there is also a rating a system in addition to comments.\n\nMobile social Web applications are built using various APIs. These APIs allow for the interaction and interconnection of data on one social database, be it Facebook, Twitter, or Google Account, thus creating a literal web of data connections. These applications then add to the user experience specific to the application itself. Examples include TweetDeck and Blogger.\n\nThe way in which individuals share intimate details, and perform tasks such as dating, shopping, and applying for jobs is very different from in previous generations. Now, one's preferences, opinions, and activities are routinely shared with a group of friends with whom they may or may not ever meet were it not for the social web.\n\nMany social websites use online social interaction to create a bridge to real life interaction. Relationships are formed between individuals via the internet and then become more personal through other forms of communication. An example of this type of interaction is found on eBay: with more than 94 million active users globally, eBay is the world's largest online marketplace, where anyone can buy and sell practically anything. This website allows individuals to sell items and other to bid on these items. At the end of the auction, the buyer pays the seller; the buyer then sends the purchased product to the winner of the auction. The relationship begins on the internet, but extends into real life interaction. Ways in eBay facilitates this interaction include Skype, a leading online communications service that enables people to communicate through voice or video online for free. eBay Inc. acquired Skype in 2005 and significantly expanded its customer base to more than 480 million registered users in nearly every country on earth. The end result of all eBay transactions is a seller providing the buyer with a product, most commonly via mail: web interaction ending in a real world exchange.\n\nThe relationship that is formed with eBay users is similar to the users of Craigslist. Users place items that they want to sell on the website, and other users that are looking to purchase these items contact the seller. Craigslist is used to bring together individuals and organizations and connect them to the resources, tools, technology and ideas they need to effectively engage in community building and see the impact of their actions. This is done via email or over the telephone. The buyer and the seller form a meeting in which goods are exchanged for money. Without this type of website, the buyer would not know that the product was available by the seller. This type of website allows members of a physical community to network with the other members of their community to exchange goods and services.\n\nThe transaction from web to real life is seen on a macro scale most recently on dating websites, which are used to search and match other users. These websites allow members with a common interest, to find others with this same interest. Academics who have studied the industry believe that it and other forms of electronic communication such as e-mail and social networks are starting to have a significant effect on the ways in which people find love. Users are able to interact with one another and find if they have common interests. Many sites have been developed that target many different interest groups, and relationships form and develop using the internet. If the users decide that they share a mutual bond, they are able to interact via the telephone, and eventually in person. The relationship begins on the internet, but can lead to real life dating and eventually even marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32366290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32366290", "title": "South Ossetian referendum, 2011", "text": "South Ossetian referendum, 2011\n\nA referendum on making Ossetian and Russian official languages was held in South Ossetia on 13 November 2011, alongside presidential elections. The referendum was originally scheduled for 11 September 2011, but on 12 August the decision was made to postpone it.\n\nPrior to the referendum the first section of the fourth article of the constitution states that Ossetian is the national language in South Ossetia, while the second section states that Russian (together with Ossetian and, in certain cases, Georgian) is the official language of government bodies, state administration and local self-government.\n"}
{"id": "39629111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39629111", "title": "Swedish Women's Lobby", "text": "Swedish Women's Lobby\n\nThe Swedish Women's Lobby () is a nonpartisan political advocacy organisation, and an umbrella organization for the Swedish women's rights and women's organisations. It was founded on the initiative of the Government of Sweden in 1997, based on the model of the European Women's Lobby (EWL) on the EU level, and has 40 member organizations. Its President is Anna Giotas Sandquist. The aim of the organisation is \"to integrate women’s perspectives into all political, economical and social processes, locally as well as internationally,\" based on the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women and the Beijing Platform for Action.\n\nThe Swedish Women's Lobby is the Swedish coordination of the European Women’s Lobby. Eva Fager of the Swedish Women's Lobby serves as Vice President of EWL.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11999828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11999828", "title": "Treasurer of the Labour Party", "text": "Treasurer of the Labour Party\n\nThe Treasurer of the Labour Party is a position on the National Executive Committee of the British Labour Party.\n\nAlthough a post with little power, in the past, it was often hotly contested by people who later became big names in British politics: Arthur Greenwood beat Herbert Morrison in 1943, Hugh Gaitskell beat Aneurin Bevan in 1954, who in turn beat George Brown in 1956, while James Callaghan beat Michael Foot in 1967. Since the 1990s, the post has typically been held by a senior member of one of the larger Trade Unions.\n\nSince the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (PPERA) came into force, the Labour Party has had to register a Treasurer to the Electoral Commission, who becomes legally responsible for various returns to the Electoral Commission. It has been the practice of the NEC to register the full-time General Secretary as Treasurer under PPERA, rather than the elected volunteer Treasurer. This has created two Treasurer roles within the party, so to disambiguate these roles the elected Treasurer is often called \"Party Treasurer\", and the PPERA Treasurer is often called \"Registered Treasurer\". The party accounts are signed by both treasurers using these titles, though under PPERA only the General Secretary need sign them.\n\nIn 2008 the post was contested by the incumbent Jack Dromey and by human rights lawyer Mark McDonald, with Dromey being re-elected. In 2010, former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott was defeated by Diana Holland.\n\n"}
{"id": "14366249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14366249", "title": "Trigger law", "text": "Trigger law\n\nA trigger law is a nickname for a law that is unenforceable, but may achieve enforceability if a key change in circumstances occurs.\n\nIn the United States, four U.S. states—Mississippi, Louisiana, North Dakota, and South Dakota—have trigger laws that would automatically ban abortion if the landmark case \"Roe v. Wade\" is overturned. Illinois formerly had a trigger law (enacted in 1975), but repealed it in 2017. An additional ten states retain their abortion bans enacted before 1973; these statutes are not enforceable due to \"Roe\", but could possibly be enforceable should \"Roe\" be overturned.\n"}
{"id": "5611172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5611172", "title": "Vice-Presidents of the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Vice-Presidents of the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nVice-President of the Democratic Republic of Congo is a former political position in Congo, which existed between 2003 and 2006 in the country's interim government after the Second Congo War.\n\nFollowing the end of the Second Congo War, and until December 6, 2006, transitional institutions were established, consisting of the former warring parties, as well as representatives of the non-belligerent opposition, and representatives of the civil society. As part of these institutions, a transitional government was put in place, led by a President, and four Vice-presidents, each of the latter coordinating a Governmental commission, regrouping a number of ministries. The pentarchy was often referred to as the \"1 + 4\". The Vice-Presidents were : \n\n\nUnder the 2006 constitution, which was promulgated in February 2006, the position of Vice-President becomes obsolete, after the inauguration of the first President of the DRC, elected democratically by direct universal suffrage. This inauguration occurred on December 6, 2006.\n"}
{"id": "30320168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30320168", "title": "Water point mapping", "text": "Water point mapping\n\nWater Point Mapping (WPM) is a tool for monitoring the distribution and status of water supplies. It collects data about different aspects related to the water facility and overlays this point data with information about population and administrative boundaries. WPM helps to visualize the spatial distribution of water supply coverage and can thereby be used to highlight equity issues. The information collected provides insights into schemes’ sustainability levels and management-related aspects of water points.\n\nWPM can be used to (i) to inform the planning of investments to improve water supply coverage; (ii) to allocate resources to deliver basic services where they are most needed; (iii) to promote increased investments in the sector; and (iv) to measure progress and performance.\n\nThe Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) include a specific target (number 10 of Goal 7) to deal with people who do not access safe drinking water and basic sanitation. To adequately assess peoples’ access to these basic services it is vital that there is accessible, accurate and reliable data that is routinely collected and updated.\n\nA variety of tools and techniques have been developed in recent years to collect such information. However, unless data is easily accessible and is presented in a user-friendly format, decision makers commonly do without the information. One alternative that has been designed to manage large volumes of data and to enable a user-friendly presentation is to use geo-referenced datasets, which provide a means of integration of data from different sources at any point on the globe. Within such a framework, for any specific point on the map (identified by its grid reference) detailed and accurate data of different nature can be linked in an integrated way. Mapping therefore involves the presentation of certain information in a spatial context, and this enables policy planners to identify the geographic areas and communities in which to focus their efforts for maximum impact. In all, mapping presents many benefits, such as:\n\n\nWater Point Mapping (WPM) can be defined as an ‘exercise whereby the geographical positions of all improved water points in an area are gathered in addition to management, technical and demographical information’. A handheld Global Positioning System (GPS) unit is used to record the precise location and approximate altitude of all water points audited; a digital camera is used to capture photographs of each water point in order to show the status and physical conditions; and a structured questionnaire is completed to document main characteristics, such as: location, functionality, category of water supply, water quality perception, management issues, ownership and water tariff payment. All collected data is entered into a geographical information system and correlated with available demographic, administrative, and physical data. The information is finally displayed using digital maps.\n\nWPM seeks to serve two different purposes:\n\n\nThe strength of water point maps is that they provide a clear message on who is and is not served; and particularly in rural areas, WPM can be used to highlight equity issues and schemes’ functionality levels below the district level. In many developing countries, water sector ministries are undertaking reforms towards decentralization, transferring the responsibility of services management and resource allocation to local planners. This requires adequate performance monitoring frameworks backed up by accurate and reliable data at local level. WPM is increasingly thought of as a way to collect this information and display it through easy-to-use maps.\n\nAs a survey tool, WPM was originally designed and promoted by WaterAid in Malawi, although in recent years it has been carried out in different countries (Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania, Uganda, etc.) by a number of stakeholders (WaterAid, SNV, Ingeniería Sin Fronteras - ApD, Concern; etc.).\n\nMain goal of WPM is to develop a comprehensive record of improved water points at a particular geographic area. The types of water points considered as improved are consistent with those accepted internationally by the Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation of WHO/UNICEF, where definition of improved is technology-based. More specifically, an improved water point is a place with some improved facilities where water is drawn for various uses such as drinking, washing and cooking.\n\nDespite its growing importance, the issue of water quality has long been nearly absent from water coverage assessments, since few countries could afford regular water quality surveillance. Instead, it is assumed that certain types of water sources categorized as ‘improved’ are likely to deliver drinking water of adequate quality for basic health needs. This assumption appears over-optimistic, and improved technologies are shown not to be providing in all circumstances safe water. Similarly, health-related gains in water interventions are also dependent on service reliability; and it has been seen for example that annual health benefits attributed to the consumption of safe water are almost entirely lost if raw water is consumed over the course of few days. This draws attention to the issue of reliability and seasonality of drinking water sources.\n\nAgainst this background, the Spanish NGO Ingeniería Sin Fronteras - Asociación para el Dessarrollo (ISF-ApD) complements the standard WPM campaign with two additional actions: (i) basic water quality tests are carried out using portable water testing kits (measuring pH, turbidity, chlorine, electrical conductivity and concentration of faecal coliforms); and (ii) the year-round functionality of water points is assessed by means of direct questions to users. The methodology used is ultimately designed to estimate the coverage of year-round safe improved water points of a certain territory.\n\nOne drawback of water point maps is that they are only as accurate as the underlying data collected, so that there is a need to define reliable but simple indicators as the basis of the monitoring framework. Clearly, the core sector indicator is water supply coverage, and in rural areas, access to water is normally defined by establishing a ratio of the maximum distance and number of people served by each water point. Three different possibilities exist when defining access:\n\n\nIn order to accurately assess the number of people served using distance as a criterion (no. 2) the spatial distribution of population is required, and this is problematic in the majority of cases. Despite the progress made with satellite free access images, many rural areas are still not covered with sufficient precision. On the other hand, due to periodic sociological census undertaken in nearly all countries, population distribution in administrative structures is usually quite well documented. Thus, first abovementioned criterion is the most commonly used.\n\nWith this information, the percentage of access to water in an area is estimated, and first indicator of access can be defined as Improved Community Water Point Density (ICWPD), which is equal to the number of ICWP per 1,000 inhabitants. A certain area would have access if its density of water points per 1,000 inhabitants is above the national threshold, and percentage of people not served in an area would be proportional to the lack of water points available compared to that threshold. However, to further improve ICWP indicator is simple since information on functionality for each water point is also collected during the survey. Non-functionality is an important obstacle to access to rural water supply, and in sub-Saharan Africa averages around 35%. Consequently, Functional Community Water Point Density (FCWPD) can be used as more accurate access indicator. If water quality and seasonality issues are taken into consideration, other ‘access’ indicators can be defined, as shown in following Table.\n\nIn addition to safe water supplies, basic sanitation and hygiene also have significant impact on household health.\n\nProvision and use of sanitation isolates contaminated faeces from the environment, and therefore the consistent use of the facility, not its mere existence, is likely to lead to health and environmental improvements. However and in much the same way as with water supply, care is needed to define an acceptable form of excreta disposal. A wide range of technologies is used, particularly for settings where low-cost solutions are required, and relevant research conducted elsewhere concluded that all types of facility can be operated hygienically. As a result, sanitation technologies are considered as providing adequate access to sanitation as long as they are private (but not shared / public) and hygienically separate human faeces from human contact. Likewise, the addition of hygiene education is required to see health impacts materialize, in particular the basic issues of hand washing, proper disposal of faeces, and protection of drinking water. An integrated water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) approach for data collection would consequently provide decision-makers with greater diagnostic power than focussing separately on each of these three components.\n\nThe strength of WPM is comprehensiveness with respect to the sample of water points audited, which results in the need of roughly covering the overall area of intervention. The drawback of the WPM approach, however, is that the focus is on water points, while sanitation and hygiene data need to be collected at the household. An approach for WASH data collection that combines a water points mapping with a household-based survey might overcome previous constraint. The new methodology takes the WPM as a starting point to comprehensively record all improved water points, being the water point basic sampling unit. This information can be then combined with data provided from a household survey to assess sanitation and hygienic habits. In terms of method, the approach adopted includes: (i) identification and audit of all improved water points; (ii) calculation of a sample size of households that is representative at and below the district level; and (iii) random household selection at the water point.\n\nWPM can be used to support different types of analysis, and specific applications include among others broad strategic planning, priority setting exercises and performance monitoring. Potential users of WPM outcomes include organizations that have water poverty alleviation as their mandate, for example, at the international level, UN agencies, the World Bank, bilateral development agencies and international NGOs.\n\nMaps have come out a powerful tool for identifying and targeting the most deprived population, and therefore support poverty reduction initiatives. However, its potential remains underexploited. A recent study developed by WaterAid concluded that the use of this tool for better planning at the district level was still low despite the acknowledgment of its potential usefulness. Two major challenges in this regard were related to the regular updating of information and to the mechanisms to include WPM evidence in the planning process. This created a vicious circle, since the more outdated WPM data became, the less useful it was for planning purposes.\n\nThe INGO ISF-ApD and Same District Council (Tanzania) developed a methodology to update WPM data and use them to help inform planning decisions. First activity was to prepare a District Water and Sanitation priority document. A set of objective criteria were defined (using WPM information) in order to rank communities based on service level and infrastructure status. Criteria used included among others coverage, need for rehabilitation, seasonality of services, quality of water delivered, and poor management. Each criterion produced one different ranking, and this enabled an accurate prioritization of future interventions and rehabilitations in the district, a part from defining a wide range of related supporting activities. The priority document was approved and issued in September 2009 by the District Authority, and it was also used to set the priorities for all sector-related stakeholders operating within the district.\n\nWPM data can be used to analyze the durability of water points depending on different factors such as time after construction, technology, management framework, or the approach adopted in the implementation. Lessons that have been learned from this analysis might help local governments and other agencies to address the sustainability challenge.The Water Point Data Exchange (WPDx), launched in 2015, is a global platform for sharing water point data collected by governments, non-profit organizations, researchers, and others.\n\nMaps are also a powerful tool for advocacy, since they provide clear messages and communicate complex information quickly and accurately. In addition, local governments have used mapping evidences to lobby for additional funding, and citizens have used them to pressure their representatives for better services.\n\nAt the same time, diverse initiatives are underway to display maps via web, as an attempt to foster accountability and disseminate WPM outputs to a broader public. For example, the h2.0 initiative of UN Habitat and Google, the Water Point Mapper developed by WaterAid, or the support made by the Water and Sanitation program to the establishment of WatSan portals in many African countries.\n\nResearchers at ODI found that Water Mapping could improve accountability in service delivery. Accountability could be achieved through the creation of Community Maps and the public availability of mapping knowledge which empower the community.\n\nWPM is an adequate tool to support monitoring and evaluation of the sector. Water poverty follows a highly heterogeneous pattern, widely varying between and within different geographic and administrative units; and mapping permits a feasible visualization of such heterogeneity. In addition, maps are well suited to illustrate spatial change over time.\n\n\n"}
