{"id": "542616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542616", "title": "Adyghe language", "text": "Adyghe language\n\nAdyghe ( or ; ), also known as West Circassian (, \"K’axybzæ\"), is one of the two official languages of the Republic of Adygea in the Russian Federation, the other being Russian. It is spoken by various tribes of the Adyghe people: Abzekh, Adamey, Bzhedug, Hatuqwai, Temirgoy, Mamkhegh, Natekuay, Shapsug, Zhaney and Yegerikuay, each with its own dialect. The language is referred to by its speakers as \"Adygebze\" or \"Adəgăbză\", and alternatively transliterated in English as \"Adygean\", \"Adygeyan\" or \"Adygei\". The literary language is based on the Temirgoy dialect.\n\nThere are apparently around 128,000 speakers of Adyghe in Russia, almost all of them native speakers. In total, some 300,000 speak it worldwide. The largest Adyghe-speaking community is in Turkey, spoken by the post Russian–Circassian War (circa 1763–1864) diaspora; in addition to that, the Adyghe language is spoken by the Cherkesogai in Krasnodar Krai.\n\nAdyghe belongs to the family of Northwest Caucasian languages. Kabardian (also known as East Circassian) is a very close relative, treated by some as a dialect of Adyghe or of an overarching Circassian language. Ubykh, Abkhaz and Abaza are somewhat more distantly related to Adyghe.\n\nThe language was standardised after the October Revolution in 1917. Since 1936, the Cyrillic script has been used to write Adyghe. Before that, an Arabic-based alphabet was used together with the Latin. In recent years, use of the Latin script has seen a resurgence, particularly among Circassian Nationalists. Originally unstandardised, all dialects of Adyghe are now included in the ICSLO (Indigenous Caucasian Standard Latin Orthography), providing a standardised Latin script that is gaining popularity. (The ICSLO treats Kabardian as a dialect of Adyghe, so Kabardian-exclusive consonants such as the labiodental ejective fricative are also represented in its Adyghe Latin script.)\n\n\nAdyghe exhibits a large number of consonants: between 50 and 60 consonants in the various Adyghe dialects. All dialects possess a contrast between plain and labialized glottal stops. A very unusual minimal contrast, and possibly unique to the Abzakh dialect of Adyghe, is a three-way contrast between plain, labialized and palatalized glottal stops (although a palatalized glottal stop is also found in Hausa). The Black Sea dialect of Adyghe contains a very uncommon sound: a bidental fricative, which corresponds to the voiceless velar fricative found in other varieties of Adyghe.\n\n\nIn contrast to its large consonant inventory, Adyghe has only three phonemic vowels in a vertical vowel system.\n\nAdyghe, like all Northwest Caucasian languages, has a basic agent–object–verb typology, and is characterised by an ergative construction of the sentence.\n\nCyrillic:\n\n<br>\nLatin:\n\nГу [ɡʷ], Гъу [ʁʷ], Дзу [d͡zʷ], Ку [kʷ], Къу [qʷ], КIу [kʷʼ], ПIу [pʷʼ], ТIу [tʷʼ], Хъу [χʷ], Цу [t͡sʷ], Шъу [ʃʷ], ШIу [ʃʷʼ], Iу [ʔʷ].\n\nIn some dialects : Кхъу [q͡χʷ], Ху [xʷ], Чъу [t͡ɕʷ].\n\n\nThe vowels are written , and .\n\nOther letters represent diphthongs: represents , or , or , represent or or and represents or .\n\nModern Adyghe uses a Cyrillic alphabet with the addition of the letter (palochka). Previously, Arabic (before 1927) and Latin (1927–38) alphabets had been used.\n\nAdyghe is taught outside Circassia in a Jordanian school for the Jordanian Adyghes, Prince Hamza Ibn Al-Hussein Secondary School in the capital Amman. This school, which was established by the Adyghe Jordanians with support from the late king Hussein of Jordan, is one of the first schools for the Adyghe communities outside Circassia. It has around 750 Jordanian Adyghe students, and one of its major goals is to preserve Adyghe among newer Adyghe generations, while also emphasising the traditions of the Adyghes.\n\nAdyghe is spoken by Circassians in Iraq and by Circassians in Israel, where it is taught in schools in their villages. It is also spoken by many Circassians in Syria, although the majority of Syrian Circassians speak Kabardian.\n\nThe New Testament and many books of the Old Testament have been published in Adyghe in Cyrillic script by the Institute for Bible Translation in Moscow.\n\nAccording to the UNESCO 2009 map entitled \"UNESCO Map of the World's Languages in Danger\", the status of the Adyghe language in 2009, along with all its dialects (Adyghe, Western Circassian tribes) and (Kabard-Cherkess, Eastern Circassian tribes), is classified as vulnerable.\n\nTranslation: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not.\nThe following texts are excerpts from the official translations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Adyghe and Kabardian, along with the original declaration in English.\n\n"}
{"id": "24354209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24354209", "title": "Apptek", "text": "Apptek\n\nApplications Technology (AppTek) is a U.S. software company specializing in human language technology (automatic speech recognition, machine translation, NLP, machine learning and artificial intelligence), headquartered in McLean, Virginia.\n\nAppTek's primary focus is on automatic speech recognition (ASR), machine translation (MT), NLP, machine learning and artificial intelligence. AppTek acquired AIXPLAIN in 2004, thereby adding a statistical engine. The neural MT engine covers many language pairs. Current bidirectional language pairs include English with Arabic, Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Turkish and Ukrainian, and unidirectional pairs from Indonesian, Pashto, Tagalog and Urdu into English.\n\nAppTek has been involved in automatic speech recognition since the acquisition of AIXPLAIN, covering broadcast voice and conversational telephony in various languages and dialects. Current ASR languages include English, Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Pashto, Persian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Turkish and Urdu.\n\nAppTek was founded in 1990 by Mohammad Shihadah and Mudar Yaghi. Acquired in 1998 by Lernout & Hauspie (at the time a NASDAQ publicly traded company), AppTek organized a management buy-out and went private again in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2217", "title": "Armenian language", "text": "Armenian language\n\nThe Armenian language ( \"\") is an Indo-European language spoken primarily by Armenians. It is the official language of Armenia. Historically being spoken throughout the Armenian Highlands, today, Armenian is widely spoken throughout the Armenian diaspora. Armenian is written in its own writing system, the Armenian alphabet, introduced in 405 AD by Mesrop Mashtots.\n\nArmenian is an independent branch of the Indo-European languages. It is of interest to linguists for its distinctive phonological developments within that family. Armenian exhibits more satemization than centumization, although it is not classified as belonging to either of these subgroups. Some linguists tentatively conclude that Armenian, Greek (Phrygian) and Indo-Iranian were dialectally close to each other; within this hypothetical dialect group, Proto-Armenian was situated between Proto-Greek (centum subgroup) and Proto-Indo-Iranian (satem subgroup).\n\nArmenia was a monolingual country by the 2nd century BC at the latest. Its language has a long literary history, with a 5th-century Bible translation as its oldest surviving text. Its vocabulary has historically been influenced by Western Middle Iranian languages, particularly Parthian, and to a lesser extent by Greek, Persian, and Syriac. There are two standardized modern literary forms, Eastern Armenian and Western Armenian, with which most contemporary dialects are mutually intelligible.\n\nAlthough the Armenians were known to history much earlier (for example, they were mentioned in the 6th century BC Behistun Inscription and in Xenophon's 4th century BC history, \"The Anabasis\"), the oldest surviving Armenian-language text is the 5th century AD Bible translation of Mesrop Mashtots, who created the Armenian alphabet in 405, at which time it had 36 letters. He is also credited by some with the creation of the Caucasian Albanian alphabet. In \"The Anabasis\", Xenophon describes many aspects of Armenian village life and hospitality in around 401 BC. He relates that the Armenian people spoke a language that to his ear sounded like the language of the Persians.\n\nW. M. Austin (1942) concluded that there was an early contact between Armenian and Anatolian languages, based on what he considered common archaisms, such as the lack of a feminine gender and the absence of inherited long vowels. However, unlike shared innovations (or \"synapomorphies\"), the common retention of archaisms (or \"symplesiomorphy\") is not considered conclusive evidence of a period of common isolated development.\n\nIn 1985, Soviet linguist Igor M. Diakonoff noted the presence in Classical Armenian of what he calls a \"Caucasian substratum\" identified by earlier scholars, consisting of loans from the Kartvelian and Northeast Caucasian languages. Noting that Hurro-Urartian-speaking peoples inhabited the Armenian homeland in the second millennium BC, Diakonov identifies in Armenian a Hurro-Urartian substratum of social, cultural, and animal and plant terms such as \"ałaxin\" \"slave girl\" ( ← Hurr. \"al(l)a(e)ḫḫenne\"), \"cov\" \"sea\" ( ← Urart. \"ṣûǝ\" \"(inland) sea\"), \"ułt\" \"camel\" ( ← Hurr. \"uḷtu\"), and \"xnjor\" \"apple(tree)\" ( ← Hurr. \"ḫinzuri\"). Some of the terms he gives admittedly have an Akkadian or Sumerian provenance, but he suggests they were borrowed through Hurrian or Urartian. Given that these borrowings do not undergo sound changes characteristic of the development of Armenian from Proto-Indo-European, he dates their borrowing to a time before the written record but after the Proto-Armenian language stage.\n\nLoan words from Iranian languages, along with the other ancient accounts such as that of Xenophon above, initially led linguists to erroneously classify Armenian as an Iranian language. Scholars such as Paul de Lagarde and F. Müller believed that the similarities between the two languages meant that Iranian and Armenian were the same language. The distinctness of Armenian was recognized when philologist Heinrich Hübschmann (1875) used the comparative method to distinguish two layers of Iranian words from the older Armenian vocabulary. He showed that Armenian often had 2 morphemes for the one concept, and the non-Iranian components yielded a consistent PIE pattern distinct from Iranian, and also demonstrated that the inflectional morphology was different from that in Iranian languages.\n\nThe hypothesis that Greek is Armenian's closest living relative originates with Holger Pedersen (1924), who noted that the number of Greek-Armenian lexical cognates is greater than that of agreements between Armenian and any other Indo-European language. Antoine Meillet (1925, 1927) further investigated morphological and phonological agreement, postulating that the parent languages of Greek and Armenian were dialects in immediate geographical proximity in the Proto-Indo-European period. Meillet's hypothesis became popular in the wake of his \"Esquisse\" (1936). Georg Renatus Solta (1960) does not go as far as postulating a Proto-Graeco-Armenian stage, but he concludes that considering both the lexicon and morphology, Greek is clearly the dialect most closely related to Armenian. Eric P. Hamp (1976, 91) supports the Graeco-Armenian thesis, anticipating even a time \"when we should speak of Helleno-Armenian\" (meaning the postulate of a Graeco-Armenian proto-language). Armenian shares the augment, and a negator derived from the set phrase Proto-Indo-European language (\"never anything\" or \"always nothing\"), and the representation of word-initial laryngeals by prothetic vowels, and other phonological and morphological peculiarities with Greek. Nevertheless, as Fortson (2004) comments, \"by the time we reach our earliest Armenian records in the 5th century AD, the evidence of any such early kinship has been reduced to a few tantalizing pieces\".\n\nGraeco-(Armeno)-Aryan is a hypothetical clade within the Indo-European family, ancestral to the Greek language, the Armenian language, and the Indo-Iranian languages. Graeco-Aryan unity would have become divided into Proto-Greek and Proto-Indo-Iranian by the mid-third millennium BC. Conceivably, Proto-Armenian would have been located between Proto-Greek and Proto-Indo-Iranian, consistent with the fact that Armenian shares certain features only with Indo-Iranian (the \"satem\" change) but others only with Greek (\"s\" > \"h\").\n\nGraeco-Aryan has comparatively wide support among Indo-Europeanists for the Indo-European homeland to be located in the Armenian Highlands, the \"Armenian hypothesis\". Early and strong evidence was given by Euler's 1979 examination on shared features in Greek and Sanskrit nominal flection.\n\nUsed in tandem with the Graeco-Armenian hypothesis, the Armenian language would also be included under the label Aryano-Greco-Armenic, splitting into proto-Greek/Phrygian and \"Armeno-Aryan\" (ancestor of Armenian and Indo-Iranian).\n\nClassical Armenian (Arm: \"grabar\"), attested from the 5th century to the 19th century as the literary standard (up to the 11th century also as a spoken language with different varieties), was partially superseded by Middle Armenian, attested from the 12th century to the 18th century. Specialized literature prefers \"Old Armenian\" for \"grabar\" as a whole, and designates as \"Classical\" the language used in the 5th century literature, \"Post-Classical\" from the late 5th to 8th centuries, and \"Late Grabar\" that of the period covering the 8th to 11th centuries. Later, it was used mainly in religious and specialized literature, with the exception of a revival during the early modern period, when attempts were made to establish it as the language of a literary renaissance, with neoclassical inclinations, through the creation and dissemination of literature in varied genres, especially by the Mekhitarists. The first Armenian periodical, \"Azdarar\", was published in \"grabar\" in 1794.\n\nThe classical form borrowed numerous words from Middle Iranian languages, primarily Parthian, and contains smaller inventories of loanwords from Greek, Syriac, Arabic, Mongol, Persian, and indigenous languages such as Urartian. An effort to modernize the language in Bagratid Armenia and the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia (11–14th centuries) resulted in the addition of two more characters to the alphabet (\" and \"), bringing the total number to 38.\n\nThe \"Book of Lamentations\" by Gregory of Narek (951–1003) is an example of the development of a literature and writing style of Old Armenian by the 10th century. In addition to elevating the literary style and vocabulary of the Armenian language by adding about well above a thousand new words, through his other hymns and poems Gregory paved the way for his successors to include secular themes and vernacular language in their writings. The thematic shift from mainly religious texts to writings with secular outlooks further enhanced and enriched the vocabulary. “A Word of Wisdom”, a poem by Hovhannes Sargavak devoted to a starling, legitimizes poetry devoted to nature, love, or female beauty. Gradually, the interests of the population at large were reflected in other literary works as well. Konsdantin Yerzinkatsi and several others even take the unusual step of criticizing the ecclesiastic establishment and addressing the social issues of the Armenian homeland. However, these changes represented the nature of the literary style and syntax, but they did not constitute immense changes to the fundamentals of the grammar or the morphology of the language. Often, when writers codify a spoken dialect, other language users are then encouraged to imitate that structure through the literary device known as parallelism.\n\nIn the 19th century, the traditional Armenian homeland was once again divided. This time Eastern Armenia was conquered from Qajar Iran by the Russian Empire, while Western Armenia, containing two thirds of historical Armenia, remained under Ottoman control. The antagonistic relationship between the Russian and Ottoman empires led to creation of two separate and different environments under which Armenians lived and suffered. Halfway through the 19th century, two important concentrations of Armenian communities were further consolidated. Because of persecutions or the search for better economic opportunities, many Armenians living under Ottoman rule gradually moved to Constantinople, whereas Tbilisi became the center of Armenians living under Russian rule. These two cosmopolitan cities very soon became the primary poles of Armenian intellectual and cultural life.\n\nThe introduction of new literary forms and styles, as well as many new ideas sweeping Europe, reached Armenians living in both regions. This created an ever-growing need to elevate the vernacular, Ashkharhabar, to the dignity of a modern literary language, in contrast to the now-anachronistic Grabar. Numerous dialects existed in the traditional Armenian regions, which, different as they were, had certain morphological and phonetic features in common. On the basis of these features two major standards emerged:\n\nBoth centers vigorously pursued the promotion of Ashkharhabar. The proliferation of newspapers in both versions (Eastern & Western) and the development of a network of schools where modern Armenian was taught, dramatically increased the rate of literacy (in spite of the obstacles by the colonial administrators), even in remote rural areas. The emergence of literary works entirely written in the modern versions increasingly legitimized the language’s existence. By the turn of the 20th century both varieties of the one modern Armenian language prevailed over Grabar and opened the path to a new and simplified grammatical structure of the language in the two different cultural spheres. Apart from several morphological, phonetic, and grammatical differences, the largely common vocabulary and generally analogous rules of grammatical fundamentals allows users of one variant to understand the other as long as they are fluent in one of the literary standards.\n\nAfter World War I, the existence of the two modern versions of the same language was sanctioned even more clearly. The Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic (1920–1990) used Eastern Armenian as its official language, whereas the diaspora created after the Armenian Genocide preserved the Western Armenian dialect.\n\nThe two modern literary dialects, Western (originally associated with writers in the Ottoman Empire) and Eastern (originally associated with writers in the Russian Empire), removed almost all of their Turkish lexical influences in the 20th century, primarily following the Armenian Genocide.\n\nProto-Indo-European voiceless stop consonants are aspirated in the Proto-Armenian language, one of the circumstances that is often linked to the glottalic theory, a version of which postulated that the voiceless occlusives of Proto-Indo-European were aspirated.\n\nIn Armenian, the stress falls on the last syllable unless the last syllable contains the definite article or , and the possessive articles and , in which case it falls on the penultimate one. For instance, , , but and . Exceptions to this rule are some words with the final letter ( in the reformed orthography) () and sometimes the ordinal numerals (, etc.), as well as , and a small number of other words.\n\nModern Armenian has six monophthongs. Each vowel phoneme in the table is represented by three symbols. The first indicates the phoneme's pronunciation in the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). After that appears the corresponding letter of the Armenian alphabet. The last symbol is its Latin transliteration (according to ISO 9985).\n\nThe following table lists the Eastern Armenian consonantal system. The occlusives and affricates have a special aspirated series (transcribed with an apostrophe after the letter): \"p’\", \"t’\", \"c’\", \"k’\" (but \"č\"). Each phoneme in the table is represented by three symbols. The first indicates the phoneme's pronunciation in the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), after that appears the corresponding letter of the Armenian alphabet, and the last symbol is its Romanization according to ISO 9985 (1996).\n\n\nThe major phonetic difference between dialects is in the reflexes of Classical Armenian voice-onset time. The seven dialect types have the following correspondences, illustrated with the t–d series:\n\nArmenian corresponds with other Indo-European languages in its structure, but it shares distinctive sounds and features of its grammar with neighboring languages of the Caucasus region. Armenian is rich in combinations of consonants. Both classical Armenian and the modern spoken and literary dialects have a complicated system of noun declensions, with six or seven noun cases but no gender. In modern Armenian, the use of auxiliary verbs to show tense (comparable to will in \"he will go\") has generally supplemented the inflected verbs of Classical Armenian. Negative verbs are conjugated differently from positive ones (as in English \"he goes\" and \"he does not go\") in many tenses, otherwise adding only the negative to the positive conjugation. Grammatically, early forms of Armenian had much in common with classical Greek and Latin, but the modern language, like modern Greek, has undergone many transformations, adding some analytic features.\n\nClassical Armenian has no grammatical gender, not even in the pronoun, but there is a feminine suffix ( \"-uhi\"). For example, (\"usuts'ich\", \"teacher\") becomes (\"usuts'chuhi\", female teacher). This suffix, however, does not have a grammatical effect on the sentence. The nominal inflection, however, preserves several types of inherited stem classes. Nouns are declined for one of seven cases: nominative (ուղղական \"uxxakan\"), accusative (հայցական \"hayc'akan\"), locative (ներգոյական \"nergoyakan\"), genitive (սեռական \"seṙakan\"), dative (տրական \"trakan\"), ablative (բացառական \"bac'aṙakan\"), or instrumental (գործիական \"gorciakan\").\n\n\nAnimate nouns do not decline for locative case.\n\n\nVerbs in Armenian have an expansive system of conjugation with two main verb types in Eastern Armenian and three in Western Armenian changing form based on tense, mood and aspect.\n\nArmenian is a pluricentric language, having two modern standardized forms: Eastern Armenian and Western Armenian. The most distinctive feature of Western Armenian is that it has undergone several phonetic mergers; these may be due to proximity to Arabic- and Turkish-speaking communities.\n\nFor example, Eastern Armenian speakers pronounce () as [tʰ], () as [d], and () as a tenuis occlusive [t˭]. Western Armenian has simplified the occlusive system into a simple division between voiced occlusives and aspirated ones; the first series corresponds to the tenuis series of Eastern Armenian, and the second corresponds to the Eastern voiced and aspirated series. Thus, the Western dialect pronounces both () and () as [tʰ], and the () letter as [d].\n\nThere is no precise linguistic border between one dialect and another because there is nearly always a dialect transition zone of some size between pairs of geographically identified dialects.\n\nArmenian can be divided into two major dialectal blocks and those blocks into individual dialects, though many of the Western Armenian dialects have become extinct due to the effects of the Armenian Genocide. In addition, neither dialect is completely homogeneous: any dialect can be subdivided into several subdialects. Although Western and Eastern Armenian are often described as different dialects of the same language, many subdialects are not readily mutually intelligible. Nevertheless, a fluent speaker of one of two greatly varying dialects who is also literate in one of the standards, when exposed to the other dialect for a period of time will be able to understand the other with relative ease.\n\nDistinct Western Armenian varieties currently in use include Homshetsi, spoken by the Hemshin people; the dialects of Armenians of Kessab (), Latakia and Jisr al-Shughur (Syria), Anjar, Lebanon, and Vakıflı, Samandağ (Turkey), part of the \"Sueidia\" dialect ().\n\nForms of the Karin dialect of Western Armenian are spoken by several hundred thousand people in Northern Armenia, mostly in Gyumri, Artik, Akhuryan, and around 130 villages in Shirak Province, and by Armenians in Samtskhe-Javakheti province of Georgia (Akhalkalaki, Akhaltsikhe).\n\nNakhichevan-on-Don Armenians speak another Western Armenian variety based on the dialect of Armenians in Crimea, where they came from in order to establish the town and surrounding villages in 1779 ().\n\nWestern Armenian dialects are currently spoken also in Gavar (formerly Nor Bayazet and Kamo, on the west of Lake Sevan), Aparan, and Talin in Armenia (Mush dialect), and by the large Armenian population residing in Abkhazia, where they are considered to be the first or second ethnic minority, or even equal in number to the local Abkhaz population\n\nThe Armenian alphabet ( or ) is a graphically unique alphabetical writing system that is used to write the Armenian language. It was introduced around AD 405 by Mesrop Mashtots, an Armenian linguist and ecclesiastical leader, and originally contained 36 letters. Two more letters, օ (o) and ֆ (f), were added in the Middle Ages. \nDuring the 1920s orthography reform in Soviet Armenia, a new letter և (capital ԵՎ) was added, which was a ligature before ե+ւ, whereas the letter Ւ ւ was discarded and reintroduced as part of a new letter ՈՒ ու (which was a digraph before). This alphabet and associated orthography is used by most Armenian speakers of the Republic of Armenia and the countries of the former Soviet Union. Neither the alphabet nor the orthography has been adopted by Diaspora Armenians, including Eastern Armenian speakers of Iran and all Western Armenian speakers, who keep using the traditional alphabet and spelling.\n\nArmenian is an Indo-European language, so many of its Proto-Indo-European-descended words are cognates of words in other Indo-European languages such as English, Latin, Greek, and Sanskrit. This table lists only some of the more recognizable cognates that Armenian shares with English (more specifically, with English words descended from Old English). (Source: Online Etymology Dictionary.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27284185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27284185", "title": "Azerbaijani Wikipedia", "text": "Azerbaijani Wikipedia\n\nThe Azerbaijani Wikipedia () is a Wikipedia in Azerbaijani language (the editing interface and the main page have been temporarily accessible via South Azerbaijani subtitles), launched in January 2002. As of 30 November 2010 it had 42,518 articles (size 4, including 20 ) and 14,523 uploaded files in its content, as well as 23,766 registered users (including seven and two ). The editorial process is being supported by forty bots.\n\nWithin the first two years of its existence the article number in Azerbaijani Wikipedia reached 3,000. As of November 2010 the local list of requested articles contains ten entries (seven biographical, two scientific and one unspecified). Pending November 2010 translation requests comprise three English and three Turkish entries.\n\nThe is maintained through nine topic categories: culture, geography, history, life, mathematics, nature, science, society and technology. embrace 111 entries. The backlog category contains 14 subcategories. \n\nThere are also fourteen about architecture, biology, chemistry, history, Islam, geography, literature, medicine, philosophy, Azerbaijani cinema, Azerbaijani military, as well as country-specific ones about Georgia, Turkey and Azerbaijan itself.\n\nAzerbaijani Wikipedia is constantly increasing its number of articles, but at some point in 2015 this number somewhat decreased returning to values smaller than 100,000.\n\nIn 2010, Azerbaijani Wikipedia books published by professor Rasim Aliguliyev and senior scientist Irada Alakbarova. The book edited by Alovsat Aliyev.\n\n\nThe first meetup was held in Baku on 6 December 2009. The event was organized in order to establish relations of friendship and familiarity between Wikipedians and a number of other issues – including technical problems and prospects for future development.\n\nRecently in order to solve the problems, an emergency meeting was organized on 23 October 2010 in Baku. About 9 users participated in it.\n\n"}
{"id": "16328338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16328338", "title": "Baldur Ragnarsson", "text": "Baldur Ragnarsson\n\nBaldur Ragnarsson (born 25 August 1930) is an Icelandic poet and author of Esperanto works. He was a teacher and a superintendent of schools in Iceland.\n\nBaldur learned Esperanto at school in 1949 and has been active in the movement to promote the use of this language since 1952. He was president of the Icelandic Esperanto Association for many years. He presided over the World Esperanto Association's literary contest from 1975 to 1985. He was president of the organizing committee for the 1977 World Esperanto Congress at Reykjavík and vice-president of the World Esperanto Association in charge of culture and education from 1980 to 1986. He has since then been an honorary member of this organization.\n\nA Member of the Esperanto Academy since 1979, he was editor of the journal \"Norda Prismo\" from 1958 to 1974.\n\nIn 2007 the Association of Esperanto-speaking authors (\"Esperantlingva Verkista Asocio\") nominated him as their candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature following the death of William Auld in 2006.\n\nBaldur has composed poetic works in Icelandic as well as books on the Icelandic language. He has also written two collections of Esperanto poems: \"Ŝtupoj sen nomo\" and \"Esploroj\".\n\nIn 2007 Edistudio published \"La lingvo serena\", his complete works. In addition to the poems of his two previous collections, the book contains all the poems he has published subsequently, as well as all the essays he has written on literature and linguistics.\n\nPoetry\n\nTranslations into Esperanto\nIn addition, he has published dozens of translations in various journals, in recent times principally in the journal \"La tradukisto\" .\n\nEssays\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33277521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33277521", "title": "Ben Tey Dogon", "text": "Ben Tey Dogon\n\nBen Tey Dogon, named after the village \"Been\" it is spoken in, is a divergent, recently described Dogon language spoken in Mali. It is closely related to Bankan Tey and Nanga Dogon. It is said that elders in the Dogon village of \"Gawru\" also speak this language. Been is reported to have been settled from the village of Walo, and Ben Tey Dogon differs from Walo Dogon primarily from being under a different foreign influence, as Been village is surrounded by Jamsay-speaking villages, which Walo is not.\n"}
{"id": "6245301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6245301", "title": "Benedict Arnold (governor)", "text": "Benedict Arnold (governor)\n\nBenedict Arnold (21 December 1615 – 19 June 1678) was president and then governor of the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, serving for a total of 11 years in these roles. He was born and raised in the town of Ilchester, Somerset, England, likely attending school in Limington nearby. In 1635 at the age of 19, he accompanied his parents, siblings, and other family members on a voyage from England to New England, where they first settled in Hingham in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. In less than a year, they moved to Providence Plantation at the head of the Narragansett Bay at the request of Roger Williams. In about 1638, they moved once again, about five miles south to the Pawtuxet River, settling on the north side at a place commonly called Pawtuxet. Here they had serious disputes with their neighbors, particularly Samuel Gorton, and as a result put themselves and their lands under the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, a situation which lasted for 16 years.\n\nArnold learned the Indian languages at an early age, and became one of the two leading interpreters in the Rhode Island colony, Roger Williams being the other. He was frequently called upon to interpret during negotiations with the Indians, but on one occasion was accused by them of misrepresentation.\n\nIn 1651, Arnold left Providence and Pawtuxet with his family, settling in Newport where he began his public service, which lasted continuously until his death. He quickly became a freeman, Commissioner, and Assistant, and in 1657 succeeded Roger Williams as president of the colony, serving for three years. In 1662, he was once again elected President and, during the second year of this term, the Royal Charter of 1663 was delivered from England, naming him as the first governor of the colony and offering broad freedoms and self-determination to the colony.\n\nArnold was a bold and decisive leader. He was elected for two additional terms as governor, the last time following the devastation of King Philip's War. He died on 19 June 1678 while still in office, and was buried in the Arnold Burying Ground, located on Pelham Street in Newport. In his will, he left to his wife his \"stone built wind mill,\" which still stands as an important Newport landmark. His many descendants include General Benedict Arnold, best known for his treason during the American Revolutionary War, and Senator Stephen Arnold Douglas who debated Abraham Lincoln in 1858, and lost to him during the 1860 presidential election.\n\nBenedict Arnold was born 21 December 1615 in Ilchester, Somerset, England, the second child and oldest son of William Arnold and Christian Peak. He was familiar with the nearby villages of Northover, from where his grandparents Nicholas and Alice Arnold had come; Yeovilton, where his Aunt Joane's husband William Hopkins (ancestor of Rhode Island Governor Stephen Hopkins) was from; and Limington, after which he named one of his properties in New England, calling it \"Lemmington Farm.\" All four of these localities lie within two miles of each other. Arnold was likely educated at the Free Grammar School associated with the parish church in Limington, slightly more than a mile to the east of Ilchester. This ancient school is where Thomas Wolsey was the curate and schoolmaster from 1500 to 1509. Wolsey later became the Lord Cardinal and Primate of England.\n\nAt the age of 19, Arnold accompanied his parents and siblings aboard a ship destined for New England. The Arnolds gathered their baggage and supplies in the spring of 1635 and made the trip from Ilchester to Dartmouth on the coast of Devon. He wrote in a family record begun by his father, \"Memorandom my father and his family Sett Sayle from Dartmouth in Old England, the first of May, friday &c. Arrived in New England June 24o Ano 1635.\" The name of the ship on which he sailed was not recorded, nor has it been identified since. It is possible that Stukeley Westcott of Yeovil was also on the same ship with his family, including his daughter Damaris, aged 15, the future wife of Arnold.\n\nUpon their arrival in New England, the Arnolds joined a group of settlers from Hingham, Norfolk, England, where they established the new town of Hingham in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. William Arnold received title to a house lot here in September 1635, but the following spring he and several other settlers were persuaded by Roger Williams to join him in establishing a new settlement on the Narragansett Bay named Providence Plantation. The younger Arnold wrote in the family record, \"Memm. We came to Providence to Dwell the 20th of April, 1636. per me Bennedict Arnold.\" Arnold received a house lot on what is now North Main Street in Providence, and his father was granted the second lot south of his.\n\nIn 1637, Arnold was one of 13 settlers who signed a compact agreeing to subject themselves to any agreements made by a majority of the masters of families. About 1638, he accompanied his father, his brother-in-law William Carpenter, and Robert Coles in a move about five miles south to the Pawtuxet River. The settlement was called Pawtuxet and was still within the jurisdiction of Providence Plantation; it later became a part of Cranston, Rhode Island. On 17 July 1640, Arnold signed an agreement with 38 other Providence residents to form a more compact government \"to preserve the peace and insure the prosperity of a growing community.\" It did neither, especially after the arrival of Samuel Gorton, who Roger Williams wrote was \"bewitching and bemadding poor Providence.\" In one incident, \"Upon the attempt to enforce the execution of an award against Francis Weston made by eight men orderly chosen, Gorton, with many of his followers, assailed the representatives of law and order making a tumultuous hubbub.\" Arnold wrote a petition with 12 others dated 17 November 1641 in which they formally applied to Massachusetts for help, asking the government there to \"lend us a neighborlike helping hand.\" Massachusetts replied that they could not help unless the complainants fell under their jurisdiction.\n\nThe Arnolds, Coles, and Carpenter were highly offended by Gorton, who had moved with some of his adherents to Pawtuxet. They went to Boston and submitted themselves to the government and jurisdiction of Massachusetts on 2 September 1642. They were received by the General Court there and appointed justices of the peace. In doing this, these settlers allowed a foreign jurisdiction into the midst of the Providence government, a condition that lasted for 16 years. Gorton was unhappy about being under the jurisdiction of Massachusetts and moved with his followers another 12 miles farther south, settling beyond the limits of Massachusetts' jurisdiction at a place called Shawomet.\n\nArnold and his father had already become proficient in the Narragansett and Wampanoag languages, and both harbored an intense dislike of Gorton. They devised a scheme to undermine their adversary and to simultaneously obtain extensive lands from the local Indians. Gorton had purchased Shawomet from Miantonomi, the chief sachem of the Narragansett people. Minor sachems Ponham and Sacononoco had some control of the lands at Pawtuxet and Shawomet, and Arnold, acting as interpreter, took these chieftains to Governor Winthrop in Boston and had them submit themselves and their lands to Massachusetts, claiming that the sale of Shawomet to Gorton was done \"under duress.\" Now with a claim to Shawomet, Massachusetts directed Gorton and his followers to appear in Boston to answer \"complaints\" made by the two minor sachems. When Gorton refused, Massachusetts sent a party to Shawomet to arrest him and his neighbors. The ensuing trial had nothing to do with the land claims, but instead focused on the writings and beliefs of Gorton, for which he and others in his group were imprisoned. Ultimately, Gorton was released and went to England where he was given legal title to his lands from the Earl of Warwick and, in his honor, the settlement of Shawomet was renamed Warwick.\n\nArnold was the only member of the colony besides Roger Williams who was highly proficient in the Narragansett and Wampanoag tongues, and he was often called upon to interpret during negotiations. In June 1645, he was sent by the General Court of Massachusetts to the Narragansett people to urge them to desist from engaging in a war with the Mohegans. On 28 July, Arnold and two others were sent to get the hostile tribes to send deputies to Boston to talk and make peace. This attempt failed and, a month later, Arnold would not go back again, as he had been charged with misrepresenting the reply of the tribes, and Roger Williams went as interpreter in his place.\n\nThe issue of the Pawtuxet settlers remaining under the jurisdiction of Massachusetts was a constant irritant to Roger Williams, Gorton, and the other Providence and Warwick settlers. The General Court of Rhode Island met at Warwick on 22 May 1649 and ordered that letters be sent to Arnold and the other Pawtuxet settlers in reference to their subjecting themselves to the Rhode Island colony. This did not happen, and the Pawtuxet settlers continued under Massachusetts for another nine years. Arnold and his father did not specifically lay claim to the Shawomet lands; nevertheless, they had extensive land holdings, and Arnold paid a tax of five pounds in 1650, the highest in the colony, and his father paid three and a half pounds, the second highest amount.\n\nIn June 1650, Roger Williams wrote to Governor Winthrop in Massachusetts saying that Arnold had bought a house and land at Newport with the intention to move there. His reasons for moving were not revealed in his own writings, but some historians have suggested that mercantile interests compelled the move, while others have suggested political interests or a desire to get away from the hostile atmosphere of Providence and Pawtuxet.\n\nIn 1651, Arnold left Providence and Pawtuxet for Aquidneck Island (which was officially called Rhode Island at the time), settling in Newport. He recorded in the family record, \"Memorandum. We came from Providence with our family to Dwell at Newport in Rhode Island the 19th of November, Thursday in afternoon, & arrived ye same night Ano. Domina 1651\". With only a few exceptions, men from Newport held the reins of power for the first century of Rhode Island history. When the first English settlers came to Aquidneck Island in 1638, they organized a quarterly court and English-style jury trial. In 1640, Newport established monthly courts, rights of appeal, and trial by jury, whereas in Providence there was no court, no judge, and no jury. \n\nSignificant political events were taking place upon Arnold's arrival in Newport. William Coddington had been successful in separating the island towns of Newport and Portsmouth from the two mainland towns of Providence and Warwick (called Shawhomett at the time), under a commission which he obtained earlier in England; he was appointed as governor for life of the two island towns in 1651. Providence sent Roger Williams to England, feeling that the Patent of 1643 had been abandoned, and those on the island opposed to Coddington sent Dr. John Clarke and William Dyer to have Coddington's charter annulled. Williams and Dyer returned to New England after finding success, while Clarke remained in England for the next decade, acting as a diplomat to protect the colony's interests. In February 1653, Dyer brought letters revoking Coddington's commission, with the authority of the government to proceed under the Patent of 1643 and the status quo of 1647. John Sanford succeeded Coddington in 1653, and with the change of administration came the work leading to the reunification of the four towns under one government. \n\nIn 1653, Arnold became a freeman of Newport and, from that point forward, served in some public capacity every year until his death in 1678. In 1654, he was selected as one of the commissioners from Newport (each of the four towns had six), and he was an Assistant from 1655 to 1656. He was very active as a member of the Court of Commissioners and a member of the most important committees. In 1655, Arnold, Roger Williams, Samuel Gorton, and William Baulston were appointed by the court to frame a letter of thanksgiving to the English Lord President of the Council on colonial affairs, and to present humble acknowledgments and submission of the colony to His Highness, the Lord Protector, Oliver Cromwell. The letter of reply from Cromwell was placed in the custody of Arnold. \n\nArnold was elected as the President of the colony in 1657, at the age of 41, succeeding Roger Williams in this capacity.\n\nArnold became President at a crucial time in Rhode Island's history. Tremendous political change was occurring in England, and this resulted in significant changes and opportunities for the little Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, which was constantly being harassed by its larger neighbors Massachusetts and Connecticut. Oliver Cromwell had been ruling in England since the overthrow and execution of King Charles I in 1649, but his death in 1658 marked the restoration of the monarchy, and Charles II ascended to the throne. The Colony of Rhode Island was quick to adjust to the new political reality, and the General Court of Commissioners met at Warwick on 18 October 1660 where two letters were read, one from Dr. Clarke telling of the Restoration, and one from His Majesty, containing the royal declaration and proclamation. Leaders in the colony set aside a special day of proclamation so that the colonists could recognize the new king.\n\nArnold was succeeded as President in 1660 by William Brenton, but continued for many years as a Commissioner, as well as an Assistant from 1660 to 1661. In these roles, he headed a committee to draft and send a new commission to Dr. Clarke, giving due credit to the King's father Charles I for the Patent of 1643 which gave the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations its official existence. Reference was made to \"sundry obstructions\" stemming from \"claims of neighbors about us,\" referring to interests that both the Massachusetts Bay Colony and Connecticut Colony had on the greater Narragansett Bay area. The document went on to include Dr. Clarke as the agent and attorney for the colony, and used deferential language toward \"his most gracious and regall Majesty, Charles the Second, by the Grace of God, the most mighty and potent King of England.\" \n\nIn this commission, the four towns of the Rhode Island colony declared their \"unfayned affection\" for the new king. The commission also armed Dr. Clarke, the able diplomat, with what he needed to fulfill his mission. He wrote a well-crafted letter on behalf of the colony asking for an experiment in liberty where the colony would become \"a Republic of Liberty under Law, in which every man is king and no man subject.\"\n\nA 1658 letter from the United Colonies (Massachusetts, Plymouth, New Haven, and Connecticut) announced the arrival of the Quakers, calling them notorious heretics and calling for their speedy removal from the colonies. The United Colonies wanted the Quakers removed from Newport, and used the threat of withholding trade as leverage for their position. Arnold was no friend of the Quakers, but his reply demonstrated a firm adherence to the Rhode Island doctrine of religious tolerance and was endorsed by the four Assistants (one from each town). He wrote, \"Concerning these Quakers (so-called), which are now among us, we have no law among us, whereby to punish any for only declaring by words, &c., theire mindes and understandings concerning the things and days of God, as to salvation and an eternal condition.\" He went on to say that the Quakers find a \"delight to be persecuted by civill powers,\" thus gaining more adherents to their cause. He felt that their doctrines tended to be very absolute, \"cutting down and overturning relations and civil government among men.\"\n\nPresident Arnold promised Massachusetts Governor Simon Bradstreet that the Quakers' \"extravagent outgoinges\" would be considered at the next session of the General Assembly, and he hoped that some action would be taken to prevent the \"bad effects of their doctrines and endeavors.\" At the March 1658 session of the Assembly, the Rhode Island doctrine of \"freedom of different consciences\" was reaffirmed, and a letter was sent to the Commissioners stating that the matter would be presented to the supreme authority of England if troubles arose from harboring Quakers. Following this, no further complaints came from the other colonies.\n\nIn 1662, Arnold was once again elected president of the colony, and Clarke's earlier diplomacy came to fruition in the second year of this term with the Royal Charter of 1663, which historian Thomas Bicknell described as \"the grandest instrument of human liberty ever constructed.\" Under this instrument, Arnold became the first governor of the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, with William Brenton as his Deputy. The earlier governing body, the Court of Commissioners, was replaced with a legislature of ten Assistants and a House of Deputies, with six from Newport and four each from Providence, Portsmouth, and Warwick. One of the first acts performed by Arnold as governor was to address a letter to Governor Winthrop of Connecticut about running a line between the two colonies as provided by the Charter. \n\nIn 1664, the King's Commissioners came to Rhode Island to settle claims of jurisdiction over the Narragansett country, specifically addressing rival claims between the Rhode Island and Connecticut colonies over land at Westerly and the settlement at Wickford. The commissioners were able to forestall a major confrontation, but no substantial changes were made, and the disputes between the two colonies continued for the next 50 years. The King's Commissioners also appointed Arnold as a justice of the peace and a magistrate of the \"King's Province\" (later Washington County, Rhode Island).\n\nIn the election of 1666, Arnold retired from office and was succeeded once again by William Brenton. Nevertheless, he and others were compelled to sit in the Assembly as deputies \"as the Court due desire their assistance.\" In 1669, Arnold was again chosen as governor, and he was re-elected in 1670 when the controversy became acute with Connecticut over disputed lands in King's Province and Westerly. On 11 July 1670, Arnold sent a strong letter to Connecticut's Governor Winthrop informing him of Rhode Island's determination to appeal to King Charles concerning \"invasions and intrusions upon the lands and government of this Colony.\" There is no record, however, of this threat being carried through.\n\nDuring this administration, the Quakers were finding the religious tolerance of Rhode Island to be a fertile ground for their missionaries, and they also found a safe haven from other colonies here. They found success in the spread of their religion and became a strong political force, as well. Arnold was once again elected governor in 1671 but, in 1672, the governorship went to Quaker Nicholas Easton, and the Quakers held the reins of power for three of the next five years. Arnold, however, had left a positive mark on the colony and, after more than ten years of his leadership, the disorganized and fragmentary governments of the four towns were united and put in order, with courts established and an organized society put into motion.\n\nArnold's usefulness had been in great demand for the welfare of the colony, and his successful political career was mirrored by equally successful agricultural and mercantile pursuits. While living at Pawtuxet, he became an agent for arms, ammunition, and liquors, and he had an establishment on the Warwick side of the river offering Boston goods and provisions in demand at the time. In his book \"Simplicities Defense\", Samuel Gorton complained that Arnold constantly traded with the Indians on the Sabbath day and was too liberal in providing them with powder. He further complained that Arnold would not sell items to the Warwick settlers unless they submitted themselves to the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. The Warwick settlers also complained that he furnished the Indians with strong drink and wine, which was forbidden by the Warwick town council.\n\nAfter leaving the governorship in 1672, Arnold likely attended to his commercial interests, and he was said to be the wealthiest person in the colony. He had a wharf and warehouse mentioned in his will, and he had commercial interests in the West Indies, evident from a 1674 letter that he wrote to his son-in-law Roger Goulding, urging him to complete his (Arnold's) business in the Barbados.\n\nArnold held several parcels of land in and around Newport, one of which he called his \"Lemmington Farm,\" which was named after the village of Limington in his native Somerset, England. In 1657, he was one of about a hundred individuals who purchased Conanicut Island, the second largest island in the Narragansett Bay where the town of Jamestown is now located. He and John Greene also acquired Goat Island and Coaster's Harbor Island, which later became the property of the town of Newport.\n\nSometime after January 1658, he and six others held equal shares of interest in a company that bought a large tract of land in the Narragansett country known as the Pettaquamscutt Purchase, a tract that became South Kingstown, Rhode Island. He held this until his death, when the property was bequeathed to his three sons Benedict, Josiah, and Oliver. He also owned two parcels of land in Newport, one where his wharf and warehouse were located, and the other the site of his mansion house.\n\nKing Philip's War (1675–76) left the mainland towns of Rhode Island in ruins, \"the most disastrous conflict to ever devastate New England.\" This confrontation between several tribes and the Colonists was named for Metacomet, sachem of the Wampanoags, who was also called King Philip. The Rhode Island colony was much more at peace with the Indians than the other colonies, yet it bore the brunt of damage because of its location at the geographical center of conflict; the settlements of Warwick and Pawtuxet were totally destroyed, with much of Providence destroyed, as well. Several of Arnold's relatives lived in these areas and fled to Long Island, and his aged father had been moved from Pawtuxet to his brother's garrison house but did not survive the conflict. \n\nIn April 1676, it was voted by the Assembly \"that in these troublesome times and straits in this Colony, this Assembly desiring to have the advice and concurrence of the most judicious inhabitants, if it may be had for the good of the whole, do desire at their next sitting the company and counsel of Mr. Benedict Arnold\" and 15 others. Quakers were noted for their pacifism, and Quaker Governor Walter Clarke was in office during the conflict. Even though the war had ended, the so-called \"war party\" was successful in the election of 1677, and Arnold was voted back into office as governor.\n\nDuring this term, Arnold's health began to fail, but he was still re-elected in May 1678. He was too ill to leave his house, and his deputy governor John Cranston transacted the colony's business, along with two assistants and a recorder, by visiting him at home. His health did not improve, and he died within a month of his last election to governor.\n\nArnold wrote his will on 24 December 1677, during his last full term as governor. A codicil to the will was written the following February, and the governor died in June while still in office. On 29 June, Samuel Hubbard of Newport wrote to Dr. Edward Stennett of London, \"Our Governor died the 19th day of June, 1678, buried 20th day, all this island was invited, many others was there, judged near a thousand people, brother Hiscox spoke there excellently led forth, I praise God.\" In his will, Governor Arnold gave land to his wife with mansion house and \"\"stone built wind mill\".\" There are romantic legends of early norsemen coming to Newport and building the stone structure that continues to stand in the city, but the strongest evidence suggests that the structure was the base of Arnold's windmill mentioned in his will.\n\nBenedict Arnold, his wife, and many of his family are buried in the Arnold Burying Ground located on Pelham Street in Newport. For many years, the cemetery was buried under a garden in the back yard of a residence, but a major renovation began in 1949 whereby all the stones were unearthed, cleaned, and returned to their original positions. There is no inscription on the slabs covering the graves of the governor and his wife, but his grave is marked with a governor's medallion.\n\nLieutenant Governor and Rhode Island historian Samuel G. Arnold wrote of him:\nThat he was no friend of the doctrines, or advocate of the conduct of the followers of Fox [Quakers] is evident from his writings; but that like Williams, he recognized the distinction between persecution and opposition, between legal force and moral suasion as applied to matters of opinion, is equally apparent. In politics and in theology he was alike the opponent of Coddington and the friend of John Clarke and throughout his long and useful life he displayed talents of a brilliant order which were ever employed for the welfare of his fellow men.\n\nArnold was married on 17 December 1640 to Damaris, the daughter of Stukeley Westcott and Julianna Marchante. They had nine children: Benedict, Caleb, Josiah, Damaris, William, Penelope, Oliver, Godsgift, and Freelove. All but William grew to adulthood, married, and had children. His son Caleb, a physician, married Abigail Wilbur, who was the daughter of Samuel Wilbur, Jr. and the granddaughter of both Samuel Wilbore [Sr.] and John Porter, two signers of the compact establishing the town of Portsmouth with Anne Hutchinson.\n\nNotable descendants of Benedict Arnold through his son Benedict include his great-grandson, also named Benedict Arnold, the general of the American Revolutionary War who is remembered primarily for his treason to America when he switched sides to fight with the British. Descendants through his son Caleb Arnold include Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry, American hero of the Great Lakes during the War of 1812, and his younger brother Commodore Matthew C. Perry, who compelled the opening of Japan to the West with the Convention of Kanagawa in 1854. Senator Stephen Arnold Douglas is also descended through this line, who debated Abraham Lincoln in 1858 before a senate race and later lost to him in the 1860 presidential election. Rhode Island colonial Deputy Governor George Hazard is another descendant.\n\n\n\"Online sources\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4001183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4001183", "title": "Busa language (Papuan)", "text": "Busa language (Papuan)\n\nThe Busa language, also known as Odiai (Uriai), is spoken in northwestern Papua New Guinea. Long thought to be a language isolate, it may actually be related to the Kwomtari languages. There were 244 speakers at the time of the 2000 census.\n"}
{"id": "991646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991646", "title": "Cabinet collective responsibility", "text": "Cabinet collective responsibility\n\nCabinet collective responsibility, also known as collective ministerial responsibility, is a constitutional convention in Parliamentary systems that members of the cabinet must publicly support all governmental decisions made in Cabinet, even if they do not privately agree with them. This support includes voting for the government in the legislature. Some Communist political parties apply a similar convention of democratic centralism to their central committee.\n\nIf a member of the Cabinet wishes to openly object to a Cabinet decision then they are obliged to resign from their position in the Cabinet.\n\nCabinet collective responsibility is related to the fact that if a vote of no confidence is passed in parliament, the government is responsible collectively, and thus the entire government resigns. The consequence will be that a new government will be formed or parliament will be dissolved and a general election will be called. Cabinet collective responsibility is not the same as individual ministerial responsibility, which states that ministers are responsible for the running of their departments, and therefore culpable for the departments' mistakes.\n\nCabinet collective responsibility is a tradition in parliamentary governments in which the prime minister is responsible for appointing the cabinet ministers. The cabinet ministers are usually selected from the same political party as the prime minister to make collective decision-making for legislation faster and more effective. Unlike a presidential system, as used, for example, in the United States, a parliamentary system’s executive and legislative branches are intertwined. Because of the fusion of powers of the executive and legislative branches the prime minister relies on the cabinet to always support their policy decisions. A breach of cabinet collective responsibility, such as when a cabinet member publicly disagrees with an executive decision results in a resignation or termination from that cabinet position. The New South Wales Parliamentary Library Research Service in Australia explains that \"one aspect of collective ministerial responsibility is that Ministers share responsibility for major government decisions, particularly those made by the cabinet and, even if they personally object to such decisions, Ministers must be prepared to accept and defend them or resign from the cabinet\".\n\nCabinet collective responsibility consists of two main features:\n\nCollective responsibility is not circumvented by appointing Ministers outside of Cabinet, as has occurred in New Zealand where, from 2005 to 2008, Winston Peters and Peter Dunne were Ministers outside of Cabinet, despite their parties not being considered part of a coalition.\n\nIn non-parliamentary governments like that of the United States, cabinet collective responsibility is not formally practiced. This is due to the clear separation of the executive and the legislature in policy-making. The United States president's cabinet members cannot simultaneously serve in Congress, and therefore cannot vote on legislation supported by the executive. The president instead has veto power over legislation passed by Congress. Cabinet unity and collective agreement between members are important to cabinet stability and party politics, but cabinet members do not have to publicly support legislation proposed or supported by the president. It is, however, in the cabinet member's best interest to support and align with the president's policies, because they serve at the pleasure of the president, who can at any time dismiss them or appoint them to another position.\n\nParliamentary democracies such as Australia, the United Kingdom and Canada practice and adhere to cabinet collective responsibility. Rhodes, Wanna and Weller offer this description of the principle of cabinet solidarity in Westminster systems of parliamentary democracy: \"Cabinet solidarity and collective responsibility are twin dimensions of responsible party government that enjoy constitutionality, albeit informally. They lie at the core of ministerial governance. Cabinet solidarity is purely a political convention designed to maintain or protect the collective good as perceived by a partisan ministry. It rests on the notion that the executive ought to appear a collective entity, able to maintain cohesion and display political strength\".\n\nIn Australia, cabinet collective responsibility is fundamental to cabinet confidentiality, but also to protect private information from becoming public and possibly threatening national security. Cabinet solidarity is not a legal requirement, but a political convention and practiced norm. There is no written law that upholds cabinet collective responsibility, but it is deeply ingrained in Australia's cabinets as a political norm and is therefore an important aspect of the collective strength and influence of the prime minister's administration.\n\nOccasionally on highly controversial issues such as the 1999 republic referendum, there may be a conscience vote where any MP may vote as they wish, but these issues are rare and never tied to official party policy, and normally party discipline is very tight.\n\nIn Canada, the cabinet is on rare occasion allowed to freely vote its conscience and to oppose the government without consequence, as occurred with the vote on capital punishment under Brian Mulroney. These events are rare and are never on matters of confidence. The most prominent Canadian cabinet minister to resign because he could not vote with the cabinet was John Turner, who refused to support wage and price controls. In Canada, party discipline is much tighter than in other Westminster-system countries; it is very rare for any MP to vote counter to the party leadership.\n\nIn Finland, collective responsibility has been established both constitutionally and as a convention. The Finnish Government and its ministers are collectively responsible for all its decisions. However, the constitution allows a minister to dissent by expressing an objection which is entered into the minutes. Nevertheless, while formally allowed, dissent is uncommon because it jeopardizes the stability of the government. Namely, majority coalition governments became the norm after President Kekkonen retired in 1981. A new cabinet must be approved by a parliamentary majority, thus a government platform is agreed upon by the participating parties. It is distinct from party platforms and details the compromises that parties made in order to cooperate. If a party fails to follow the government platform, other parties in the government can pull the plug and force the entire government to resign.\n\nArticle 28.4.2° of the Constitution of Ireland states:\nIn 1992, the Beef Tribunal was investigating allegations of political corruption, and wanted to take evidence from a minister about cabinet meetings at which controversial proposals had been discussed. The Supreme Court ruled in 1993 that such discussions could not be disclosed because Article 28.4.2° required absolute confidentiality of cabinet discussions (though not of decisions which were formally recorded). The Seventeenth Amendment of the Constitution was passed by referendum in 1997 to add Article 28.4.3°, which allows such disclosures in exceptional circumstances.\n\nThe United Kingdom practices cabinet collective responsibility. The prime minister selects a number of cabinet ministers from the House of Commons and the House of Lords. Once selected as cabinet ministers, each minister is given a position as head of one of the government departments. Cabinet ministers respond to oral questions from MPs. The cabinet members, along with the Prime Minister, schedule weekly closed door sessions to discuss the collective stance of the cabinet to avoid inconsistent responses from cabinet ministers. The solidarity of the cabinet is consistently challenged by the opposition in an attempt to create contradictions between cabinet ministers. It is therefore imperative for the cabinet members to have their responses as common and similar as possible.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the doctrine applies to all members of the government, from members of the cabinet down to Parliamentary Private Secretaries. Its inner workings are set out in the Ministerial Code. On occasion, this principle has been suspended; most notably in the 1930s when in Britain the National Government allowed its Liberal members to oppose the introduction of protective tariffs; and again when Harold Wilson allowed Cabinet members to campaign both for and against the 1975 referendum on whether the UK should remain in the European Economic Community. In 2003, Tony Blair allowed Clare Short to stay in the cabinet, despite her public opposition to the 2003 Iraq War. However, she later resigned.\n\nThe convention appeared to have been partially suspended under the Conservative - Liberal Democrat Coalition Government of Prime Minister David Cameron, with Liberal Democrat ministers such as Vince Cable frequently publicly criticising the actions of Conservative Cabinet members.\n\nDavid Cameron suspended the cabinet collective responsibility doctrine for the EU Referendum held on 23 June, 2016, following the precedent set by Harold Wilson on this matter in 1975. Prominent cabinet ministers including Michael Gove and Chris Grayling opted to make use by campaigning to leave.\n\nA parliamentary system that uses cabinet collective responsibility is more likely to avoid contradictions and disagreements between cabinet members of the executive branch. Cabinet ministers are likely to feel there is a practical and collective benefit from being part of a team. Cabinet collective responsibility to the people also benefits party and personal loyalty to the prime minister. Solidarity within the cabinet can strengthen the prime minister's party and accelerate policy decisions and interests of that party. Presidential democracies often lack the ability to pass legislation quickly in times of emergency or instances of national security.\n\nBecause cabinet collective responsibility forces the cabinet ministers to publicly agree with the prime minister's decisions, political debate and internal discourse is hindered. When disagreements occur within a cabinet dependent on collective responsibility, negotiating collective agreements can be difficult. Cabinet collective responsibility is therefore dependent on the mutual agreement and collective unity of the cabinet and its members.\n\n"}
{"id": "14655547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14655547", "title": "Cassandra (metaphor)", "text": "Cassandra (metaphor)\n\nThe Cassandra metaphor (variously labelled the Cassandra \"syndrome\", \"complex\", \"phenomenon\", \"predicament\", \"dilemma\", or \"curse\") occurs when valid warnings or concerns are dismissed or disbelieved.\n\nThe term originates in Greek mythology. Cassandra was a daughter of Priam, the King of Troy. Struck by her beauty, Apollo provided her with the gift of prophecy, but when Cassandra refused Apollo's romantic advances, he placed a curse ensuring that nobody would believe her warnings. Cassandra was left with the knowledge of future events, but could neither alter these events nor convince others of the validity of her predictions.\n\nThe metaphor has been applied in a variety of contexts such as psychology, environmentalism, politics, science, cinema, the corporate world, and in philosophy, and has been in circulation since at least 1949 when French philosopher Gaston Bachelard coined the term 'Cassandra Complex' to refer to a belief that things could be known in advance.\n\nThe Cassandra metaphor is applied by some psychologists to individuals who experience physical and emotional suffering as a result of distressing personal perceptions, and who are disbelieved when they attempt to share the cause of their suffering with others.\n\nIn 1963, psychologist Melanie Klein provided an interpretation of Cassandra as representing the human moral conscience whose main task is to issue warnings. Cassandra as moral conscience, \"predicts ill to come and warns that punishment will follow and grief arise\". Cassandra's need to point out moral infringements and subsequent social consequences is driven by what Klein calls \"the destructive influences of the cruel super-ego\", which is represented in the Greek myth by the god Apollo, Cassandra's overlord and persecutor. Klein's use of the metaphor centers on the moral nature of certain predictions, which tends to evoke in others \"a refusal to believe what at the same time they know to be true, and expresses the universal tendency toward denial, [with] denial being a potent defence against persecutory anxiety and guilt\".\n\nIn a 1988 study, Jungian analyst Laurie Layton Schapira, explored what she called the \"Cassandra Complex\" in the lives of two of her analysands.\nBased on clinical experience, she delineates three factors which constitute the Cassandra complex: \n\nLayton Schapira views the Cassandra complex as resulting from a dysfunctional relationship with what she calls the \"Apollo archetype\", an archetype which refers to any individual's or culture's pattern that is dedicated to, yet bound by, order, reason, intellect, truth and clarity that disavows itself of anything occult or irrational. The intellectual specialization of this archetype creates emotional distance and can predispose relationships to a lack of emotional reciprocity and consequent dysfunctions. She further states that a \"Cassandra woman\" is very prone to hysteria because she \"feels attacked not only from the outside world but also from within, especially from the body in the form of somatic, often gynaecological, complaints.\"\n\nAddressing the metaphorical application of the Greek Cassandra myth, Layton Schapira states that:\n\nIn 1989, Jean Shinoda Bolen, Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the University of California, published an essay on the god Apollo in which she detailed a psychological profile of the \"Cassandra woman\" whom she suggested referred to someone suffering—as happened in the mythological relationship between Cassandra and Apollo—a dysfunctional relationship with an \"Apollo man\". Bolen added that the Cassandra woman may exhibit \"hysterical\" overtones, and may be disbelieved when attempting to share what she knows.\n\nAccording to Bolen, the archetypes of Cassandra and Apollo are not gender-specific. She states that \"women often find that a particular [male] god exists in them as well, just as I found that when I spoke about goddesses men could identify a part of themselves with a specific goddess. Gods and goddesses represent different qualities in the human psyche. The pantheon of Greek deities together, male and female, exist as archetypes in us all ... There are gods and goddesses in every person.\"\n\n\"As an archetype, Apollo personifies the aspect of the personality that wants clear definitions, is drawn to master a skill, values order and harmony, and prefers to look at the surface rather than at what underlies appearances. The Apollo archetype favors thinking over feeling, distance over closeness, objective assessment over subjective intuition.\"\n\nOf what she describes as the negative Apollonic influence, Dr. Bolen writes:\n\nBolen suggests that a Cassandra woman (or man) may become increasingly hysterical and irrational when in a dysfunctional relationship with a negative Apollo, and may experience others' disbelief when describing her experiences.\n\nForeseeing potential future directions for a corporation or company is sometimes called \"visioning\". Yet achieving a clear, shared vision in an organization is often difficult due to a lack of commitment to the new vision by some individuals in the organization, because it does not match reality as they see it. Those who support the new vision are termed \"Cassandras\"—able to see what is going to happen, but not believed. Sometimes the name Cassandra is applied to those who can predict rises, falls, and particularly crashes on the global stock market, as happened with Warren Buffett, who repeatedly warned that the 1990s stock market surge was a bubble, attracting to him the title of \"Wall Street Cassandra\". Andy Grove, in his book \"Only The Paranoid Survive\", reminds the reader of the Helpful Cassandras that sense the winds of change before others and are critical to managing through Strategic Inflection Points.\n\nMany environmentalists have predicted looming environmental catastrophes including climate change, rise in sea levels, irreversible pollution, and an impending collapse of ecosystems, including those of rainforests and ocean reefs. Even though much of this has since come to pass, individuals sometimes acquire the label of 'Cassandras', whose warnings of impending environmental disaster are disbelieved or mocked. Environmentalist Alan Atkisson wrote in 1999 that to understand that humanity is on a collision course with the laws of nature is to be stuck in what he calls the 'Cassandra dilemma' in which one can see the most likely outcome of current trends and can warn people about what is happening, but the vast majority cannot, or will not respond, and later if catastrophe occurs, they may even blame you, as if your prediction set the disaster in motion. Occasionally there may be a \"successful\" alert, though the succession of books, campaigns, organizations, and personalities that we think of as the environmental movement has more generally fallen toward the opposite side of this dilemma: a failure to \"get through\" to the people and avert disaster. In the words of Atkisson: \"too often we watch helplessly, as Cassandra did, while the soldiers emerge from the Trojan horse just as foreseen and wreak their predicted havoc. Worse, Cassandra's dilemma has seemed to grow more inescapable even as the chorus of Cassandras has grown larger.\"\n\nThere are examples of the Cassandra metaphor being applied in the contexts of medical science, the media, to feminist perspectives on reality, and in politics. There are also examples of the metaphor being used in popular music lyrics, such as the 1982 ABBA song \"Cassandra\", Emmy the Great's \"Cassandra\", and Star One's \"Cassandra Complex\". The five-part The Mars Volta song \"Cassandra Gemini\" may reference this syndrome, as well as the film \"12 Monkeys\" or in Dead and Divine's \"Cassandra Syndrome\". The Ohio band Curse of Cassandra is named after the metaphor.\n\nThere are also distinct parallels to Old Testament prophets such as Jeremiah, Isaiah, and Amos - prophets who called attention to the failure of those who thought of themselves as God's people to forsake meaningless sacrifices and devote themselves to caring for \"orphans and widows in their distress.\" The prophets called their societies to thereby honor God and avoid social / political disasters. Their \"prophecies\" were not well-received; Jeremiah, for example, being thrown into a deep well as well as put in wooden stocks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34346927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34346927", "title": "Chains (nautical)", "text": "Chains (nautical)\n\nThe chains were small platforms, built on either side of the hull of a ship, used to provide a wide purchase for the shrouds, and to assist in the practice of depth sounding. \n\nThe chains provided a platform for a 'leadsman', the sailor assigned to swing the sounding line, or 'lead' into the water. The term originated from the practice of the sailor standing between the shrouds when casting the line, which were attached to the hull by chainplates, or, in earlier sailing ships, to lengths of chain along the ship's side. A length of chain was usually fixed at waist height to the stanchions above the chains, as an added safety measure. The chains were common on large sailing vessels, but the role of leadsman and swinging the lead to obtain depth soundings declined with developments in echo sounding, and ships are rarely now equipped with chains.\n"}
{"id": "4180947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4180947", "title": "Comma (rhetoric)", "text": "Comma (rhetoric)\n\nIn Ancient Greek rhetoric, a comma (κόμμα \"komma\", plural κόμματα \"kommata\") is a short clause, something less than a colon.\n\nIn the system of Aristophanes of Byzantium, commata were separated by middle interpuncts.\nIn antiquity, a comma was defined as a combination of words that has no more than eight syllables.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4248148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4248148", "title": "Demand (psychoanalysis)", "text": "Demand (psychoanalysis)\n\nIn the theory of Jacques Lacan, demand () represents the way instinctive needs are inevitably alienated through the effects of language on the human condition. The concept of demand was developed by Lacan in parallel to those of need and desire to account for the role of speech on human aspirations. Demand forms part of Lacan's battle against the approach to language acquisition favored by ego psychology, and makes use of Kojeve's theory of desire. Demand is not a Freudian concept.\n\nFor Lacan, demand is the result of language acquisition on physical needs - the individual's wants are automatically filtered through the alien system of external signifiers.\n\nWhere traditionally psychoanalysis had recognised that learning to speak was a major step in the ego's acquisition of power over the world, and celebrated its capacity for increasing instinctual control, Lacan by contrast stressed the more sinister side of man's early submergence in language.\n\nHe argued that \"demand constitutes the Other as already possessing the 'privilege' of satisfying needs\", and that indeed the child's biological needs are themselves altered by \"the condition that is imposed on him by the existence of the discourse, to make his need pass through the defiles of the signifier\". Thus even in speaking one's demands, the latter are altered; and even when they are met, the child finds that it no longer wants what it thought it wanted.\n\nIn Lacanian thought, a demand results when a lack in the Real is transformed into the Symbolic medium of language. Demands faithfully express unconscious signifying formations, but always leave behind\na residue or kernel of desire, representing a lost surplus of jouissance for the subject, (because the Real is never totally symbolizable).\n\nAs a result, for Lacan, \"desire is situated in dependence on demand - which, by being articulated in signifiers, leaves a metonymic remainder which runs under it\". The frustration inherent in demand - whatever is actually asked for is 'not it' - is what gives rise to desire.\n\nThe demands of human society are initially mediated via the Mother; with the discourse of whom the infant comes to identify, subsuming its own non-verbal self-expression.\n\nThe result in the neurotic may be a dominance of parental demand, and of the social objects valued by such demands - jobs, degrees, marriage, success, money and the like. Lacan considered indeed that for the neurotic \"the demand of the Other assumes the function of an object in his phantasy...this prevalence given by the neurotic to demand\".\n\nLacan considered that the transference appears in the forms of demands from the patient - demands which he stressed the analyst must resist.\n\nThrough such demands, he states, \"the whole past opens up right down to early infancy. The subject has never done anything other than demand, he could not have survived otherwise, and...regression shows nothing other than a return to the present of signifiers used in demands\".\n\nFrançois Roustang however has challenged the Lacanian view, arguing that the patient's demand, rather than undermining the analysis, may be a positive attempt to get the analyst to shift their therapeutic stance.\n"}
{"id": "11252815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11252815", "title": "Dultgen", "text": "Dultgen\n\nThe Dultgen halftone intaglio process is a photoengraving technique invented by, Arthur Dultgen and is widely used today in commercial colour work.\n\nTwo positives are made from the Continuous tone copy, one through a halftone screen or a special contact screen and the other without a screen.\n\nA sheet of carbon tissue is then exposed first to the screened positive, which produces an image of dots of varying sizes, then to the continuous-tone positive, which produces differing degrees of hardening of the dot image. The array of dots vary not only in width but also in depth so as to extend the range of tonal values to be reproduced. This method thus uses two methods for controlling tonal values.\n\nhttp://www.freepatentsonline.com/4287537.html\n"}
{"id": "5738433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5738433", "title": "Emerillon language", "text": "Emerillon language\n\nEmerillon (alternate names Emerilon, Emerion, Mereo, Melejo, Mereyo, Teco) is a Tupi–Guarani language spoken in French Guiana on the rivers Camopi and Tampok. The Emerillon people refer to their language as Teke and it is mutually intelligible to Wayampi a language indigenous to French Guiana and Brazil.\n\nEmerillon is only used along the French Guiana borders with Surinam and Brazil. There are only four hundred Emerillon speakers in the world. Although there are a limited number of speakers, Emerillon is still taught as a first language to children. Its name derives from \"mereñõ,\" a name given to members of the Emerillon tribe. They often refer to themselves as the Teko people which translates to \"human being\" in Wayãpi.\n"}
{"id": "210985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210985", "title": "Foxtrot", "text": "Foxtrot\n\nThe foxtrot is a smooth, progressive dance characterized by long, continuous flowing movements across the dance floor. It is danced to big band (usually vocal) music. The dance is similar in its look to waltz, although the rhythm is in a time signature instead of . Developed in the 1910s, the foxtrot reached its height of popularity in the 1930s and remains practiced today.\n\nThe dance was premiered in 1914, quickly catching the eye of the husband and wife duo Vernon and Irene Castle, who lent the dance its signature grace and style. The origin of the name of the dance is unclear, although one theory is that it took its name from its popularizer, the vaudeville actor Harry Fox. Two sources, Vernon Castle and dance teacher Betty Lee, credit African American dancers as the source of the foxtrot. Castle saw the dance, which \"had been danced by negroes, to his personal knowledge, for fifteen years, [at] a certain exclusive colored club\".\n\nW. C. Handy (\"Father of the Blues\") notes in his autobiography that his \"The Memphis Blues\" was the inspiration for the foxtrot. During breaks from the fast paced Castle Walk and One-step, Vernon and Irene Castle's music director, James Reese Europe, would slowly play the Memphis Blues. The Castles were intrigued by the rhythm, and Jim asked why they didn't create a slow dance to go with it. The Castles introduced what they then called the \"Bunny Hug\" in a magazine article. Shortly after, they went abroad and, in mid-ocean, sent a wireless to the magazine to change the name of the dance from \"Bunny Hug\" to the \"Foxtrot.\" It was subsequently standardized by Arthur Murray, in whose version it began to imitate the positions of Tango.\n\nAt its inception, the foxtrot was originally danced to ragtime. From the late 1910s through the 1940s, the foxtrot was the most popular fast dance, and the vast majority of records issued during these years were foxtrots. The waltz and tango, while popular, never overtook the foxtrot. Even the popularity of the Lindy hop in the 1940s did not affect the foxtrot's popularity, since it could be danced to the same records used to accompany the Lindy hop.\n\nWhen rock and roll first emerged in the early 1950s, record companies were uncertain as to what style of dance would be most applicable to the music. Notably, Decca Records initially labeled its rock and roll releases as \"foxtrots\", most notably \"Rock Around the Clock\" by Bill Haley and His Comets. Since that recording, by some estimates, went on to sell more than 25 million copies, \"Rock Around the Clock\" could be considered the biggest-selling \"foxtrot\" of all time. Today, the dance is customarily accompanied by the same big band music to which swing is also danced.\n\nOver time, the foxtrot split into slow and quick versions, referred to as \"foxtrot\" and \"quickstep\" respectively. In the slow category, further distinctions exist between the International or English style of the foxtrot and the continuity American style, both built around a slow-quick-quick rhythm at the slowest tempo, and the social American style using a slow-slow-quick-quick rhythm at a somewhat faster pace. In the context of International Standard category of ballroom dances, for some time the foxtrot was called \"Slow Foxtrot\", or \"Slowfox\". These names are still in use, to distinguish from other types of foxtrots.\n\nThree distinct styles of slow foxtrot are in common use among ballroom dancers today: the American Social Style, the American Continuity Style, and the International Style. All three are partner dances in which the dancers progress around the dance floor in a counter-clockwise direction and are danced to much the same music. However, they differ significantly in technique, positions, and figures.\n\nThe American Social Style was, and to some extent still is, widely employed in the United States as a social and party dance. It is particularly well suited to dancing in a crowded room, by partners who may or may not know each other well, and who may or may not have had much formal training in dance. Its defining feature is that the dancers close their feet at the end of almost every figure, as opposed to passing their feet as in the other two styles. As a result, the dancers progress fairly slowly around the room, and some figures can even be danced in place. Furthermore, almost every figure begins in much the same position, with the two partners facing each other squarely in the closed position and the man starting on his left foot. Since each figure leads so easily and consistently in the next, it is fairly easy for the leader to string multiple figures together on the fly in an ever-changing sequence. Body contact is unnecessary and not generally expected; all figures can be led through the frame formed by the arms. Hence, the potential social awkwardness of body contact between partners who do not know each other well is avoided. As American Social Style is the only style allowed in bronze (beginner) level American Style dance competition, this style is sometimes also known as \"American Bronze Foxtrot\".\n\nThe American Social style uses both six-count and eight-count figures. The rhythmic alteration between the two is one of the few potential difficulties in the dance. Syncopation is generally avoided.\n\nThe six-count figures extend across one and a half measures of music, and utilize the rhythm slow (two counts), slow (two counts), quick (one count), quick (one count). Examples include: the basic movement forward and back, the alternating quarter turns (zig-zag), the rock turns right and left, the promenade, the promenade twist (12 counts), the promenade pivot (12 counts), and the sway step. Social dancers generally use the alternating quarter turns to progress in a zig-zag pattern around the room, alternating for variety with the promenade. Rock turns are used for changes of direction in corners and to avoid collisions. Both the rock turns and balance step can be danced entirely in place, if necessitated by crowded conditions. Many of these figures can be further embellished by underarm turns.\n\nThe eight-count figures extend across two measures of music and utilize the rhythm slow (two counts), quick (one count), quick (one count); slow (two counts), quick (one count), quick (one count). Most of them can be further decomposed into two four-count figures, although this would break the convention that every figure begins in closed position with the man stepping on his left foot. Examples include: the forward and reverse box, the left and right box turns, the closed twinkle with promenade close ending, the fallaway twinkles (16 counts), the promenade twinkles (16 counts), and the serpentine (progressive twinkles) with closed footwork. A few, such as the grapevine, utilize a faster rhythm consisting of four quicks. Most of these eight-count figures resemble corresponding figures in the waltz, with the rhythm modified by extending the first step of each figure to occupy two counts. Again, many of these figures can be further embellished by underarm turns.\n\nThe only common syncopated figure is the chassé. It is a four-count figure with the rhythm slow (two counts) quick-and-quick (two counts), that may be inserted between a closed twinkle and its promenade close ending.\n\nThe American Continuity Style is widely employed in the United States as a competitive dance and as a base for formation dance and the performing arts. It is the style generally seen in American musical theater productions and in film. It differs from the social style in that the dancers pass their feet at the end of each figure, rather than closing them. Consequently, dancers progress much more rapidly around the room, in a smooth, continuous manner that gives the style its name. It differs from the International Style in that body contact is optional. This permits the dance partners to assume a much wider variety of positions and, therefore, to execute many types of figures that are not possible in the International Style. As American Continuity Style is expected in Silver Level American Style dance competitions and above, this style is sometimes also known as \"American Silver Foxtrot\".\n\nTransitions from one dance position to another are an important aspect of the American style. Commonly employed dance positions include normal (closed) position, in which the dancers face each other squarely with the man's right hand around the woman's back; promenade position, in which the partners open slightly in a vee; open position (a two-hand hold with the arms extending forward sideways); and shadow position (in which both partners face the same direction, rather than each other). Partners may even separate completely for short periods of time. \"Lines\", in which the partners form and hold a special shape for a short period of time, also play an important role. Examples include the oversway, the chair, the check.\n\nIn the American Continuity Style, most figures are based upon four-count units with the rhythm slow (two counts), quick (one count), quick (one count) repeating in each measure. A basic dance sequence progressing around the room in a straight line might consist of an open left box turn (eight counts), an open twinkle (four counts), an open right turn (four counts), an open impetus (a/k/a hairpin) (four counts), and a continuity ending (four counts), returning to the start of the sequence. Other figures based upon the same rhythm include the serpentine (a/k/a progressive twinkles) with open footwork; the curved running steps; the outside swivel; the pivot from promenade; and the natural fallaway. Many of these figures may be executed in a variety of positions: for instance, the serpentine may be executed in closed position, open position, or shadow position, with the man facing either forwards or backwards. Many of these figures may be further embellished by underarm turns, especially when changing from one dance position to another. Variations upon this basic rhythm may employ four quick steps (quick, quick, quick, quick) as in the grapevine and the second measure of the weave, or syncopation (slow, quick-and-quick quick) as in the chassé.\n\nMany Continuity-Style Foxtrot figures are similar to those of American Continuity Style Waltz, with the rhythm modified by extending the first step of each figure to occupy two counts. Some, like the open twinkles, are direct developments of the corresponding Social Foxtrot figures in which the footwork has been modified by passing the feet at the end of the figure instead of closing the feet; others are entirely different.\n\nThe International (British) Style is widely employed in Europe and Great Britain as a social and competitive dance. Its defining characteristic is that partners must maintain body contact at all times. Consequently, the variety of possible figures and positions is much more limited than in the American style. Dancers concentrate on creating an image of a smooth, gliding motion around the dance floor. The use of body contact makes it possible to execute very tight turns, which is further enhanced by the extensive use of heel turns. This use of heel turns, and the effort required to produce the desired gliding motion, give International Style Foxtrot a reputation as being perhaps the most difficult of all ballroom dances to execute well.\n\nMost figures are based upon four-count units with the rhythm slow (two counts), quick (one count), quick (one count), repeating in each measure. A basic dance sequence progressing around the room might employ a feather step (four counts), reverse turn with feather finish (eight counts), three step (four counts), natural turn (four counts) with impetus (four count) and feather finish (four count), connecting again to a reverse turn. However, rhythmic variation is used to make up for the loss of variety in figures and positions: thus, for example, the weave uses four quick steps in a single measure, while the change of direction uses a two-measure sequence of four slow steps.\n\nInternational Style Foxtrot is the most tightly defined of all the Foxtrot styles, with instructional and competitive syllabi that are tightly controlled by the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing. Thus, it is possible to present the following list of International or English style foxtrot figures, although this is by no means an exhaustive list.\nBasic Figures\nStandard Figures\nInternational Foxtrot is one of the five Standard dances that form the backbone of International Style Dance competitions held around the world under the auspices of the International Dance Sport Federation, its local affiliates, and other organizations. Competitions are generally held at six successive levels of difficulty: Bronze (beginning), Silver (intermediate), Gold (advanced), Novice, Pre-Championship, and Championship. The Bronze, Silver, and Gold levels are syllabus levels: that is, for each level there is a prescribed syllabus of figures from which the competitor is expected to select. The Novice, Pre-Championship, and Championship levels are open levels at which novel, original choreography is permitted and even encouraged. The competitive dance syllabi are defined and tightly controlled by the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing.\n\nLikewise, American Foxtrot is one of the four Modern Smooth dances that form the backbone of American Style Dance competitions held in the United States under the auspices of the National Dance Council of America and USA Dance, and in some other countries. Competitions are again generally held at six successive levels of difficulty: Bronze (beginning), Silver (intermediate), Gold (advanced), Novice, Pre-Championship, and Championship. The Bronze, Silver, and Gold levels are restricted levels in which the permitted set of figures is restricted by rules – very similar but not identical – published by the sponsoring organization. The Novice, Pre-Championship, and Championship levels are open levels at which novel, original choreography is permitted and even encouraged. At the Bronze level, only American Social Style is allowed; this is enforced by rules that require closing the feet at the end of each figure. Either Social or Continuity Style may be employed at the Silver level and higher, but Continuity Style is generally expected. There are multiple, alternative instructional and competitive syllabi published by various organizations, which are compatible to varying degrees with the competitive rule sets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "733930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733930", "title": "Full frame", "text": "Full frame\n\nIn cinematography, full frame refers to the use of the full film gate at maximum width and height for 35 mm film cameras. It is sometimes also referred to as silent aperture, full gate, or a number of other similar word combinations. It is the original gate size pioneered by William Dickson and Thomas Edison in 1892 and first used in the short film \"Blacksmithing Scene\". Full frame is generally used by all 4-perf films, whether silent, standard 35 (Academy ratio width), or Super 35. The introduction of Academy ratio in 1932 required that the lens mount needed to be shifted slightly horizontally to re-center the lens at the new center of frame; however, the gate size did not change as the extra negative information would be cropped out by lab processes in post-production. 4-perf Super 35 is nearly identical to the original full frame standard, although the lens mount requires vertical re-centering when common topline extraction is used. Hard mattes for all common ratios exist and either replace the film gate itself or are inserted within it. However, these are usually not used in the event that any reframing needs to be done.\n\n\"Standardized by SMPTE.\"\n\nas per 35 mm film, except:\n\n"}
{"id": "9132887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9132887", "title": "George Henry Martin Johnson", "text": "George Henry Martin Johnson\n\nGeorge Henry Martin Johnson (\"Onwanonsyshon\") (October 7, 1816 – February 19, 1884) was a member of the Wolf clan and selected as a hereditary chief of the Mohawk of the Six Nations in Canada; he also served as an official interpreter and informal diplomat between the Mohawk and Canadian governments. His home of Chiefswood, built in 1856 on the Grand River, has been designated and preserved as a National Historic Site; it is the only First Nations mansion from the pre-Confederation era.\n\nJohnson was born at Bow Park on the Grand River on the Six Nations of the Grand River First Nation near Brantford in 1816. The Wolf clan members had founded the Reserve after resettling from New York during the American Revolution.\n\nHe was the son of John Smoke Johnson, a Mohawk Bear clan chief, and Helen Martin, a Mohawk whose Dutch mother Catherine Rolleston had been captured as a girl and adopted and assimilated into the Wolf clan. Her father \"Ohyeatea\" (George Martin) was Mohawk. The couple lived with her parents until after their first child was born, in Mohawk custom.\n\nGeorge Johnson was educated at the Mohawk Institute, where he became fluent in English as well as Mohawk.\n\nIn 1838, Johnson was hired by the Reverend Adam Elliot as an interpreter. In 1840, he became interpreter for the Anglican mission at the Reserve. He became influential in both the English and Mohawk communities.\n\nIn 1853, Johnson married Emily Susanna Howells, a native of England whose family had immigrated to the United States in 1832. She was the sister-in-law of Reverend Elliot and a cousin of the American author William Dean Howells. Both families, and the Native community in general, opposed Johnson's interracial marriage to a white woman. The Mohawk resented that under Canadian law, Howells as Johnson's wife would gain status as a Native, with a right \"to a portion of her band’s annuities and other benefits.\" Under the Mohawk matrilineal kinship system, her children would have not fully belonged to the tribe as they would not be part of any clan. Reverend Elliot refused to perform the marriage ceremony, so the couple found another Anglican priest who would.\n\nThe couple educated their four children to embrace both their Mohawk and English heritage. The Johnsons entertained leading figures of the time at their home of Chiefswood, which George had built in 1856 on his 225-acre estate. Their youngest daughter Pauline Johnson (1861-1913) became nationally known as a Canadian poet and performer known for representing her First Nations heritage. Her fame surpassed that of her father. His daughter Evelyn also became a poet.\n\nJohnson was elected as a hereditary chief of the Six Nations, succeeding his mother's brother, Henry Martin of the Wolf clan. The Mohawk had a matrilineal kinship system, in which descent and property passed through the woman's line, and his mother nominated him for the post.\n\nHe later became friends with Jasper Tough Gilkison, Upper Canada Superintendent to the Six Nations. He was appointed government interpreter. Johnson served as a timber ranger, making efforts to control the theft of timber and sale of whiskey on the reserve by unscrupulous non-native men. He was badly beaten in 1865 for this, and attacked again in 1873, when he was shot. The sale of timber and whiskey was lucrative for whites.\n\nIn 1884 Johnson died at his estate Chiefswood on the Grand River near Brantford. It has been listed as a National Historic Site and is the only Native mansion surviving from the pre-Confederation years. The house and summer kitchen wing were restored in the early 21st century. In addition, much of the open grounds have been restored since the late 20th century to the Ontario Tall Grass Prairie Meadows that were characteristic at the time of the family's residence and had plants used by the Mohawk for medicinal purposes. Today less than five acres remain associated with the mansion. Other parts of the more than 200-acre estate were sold by heirs over the years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44815546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44815546", "title": "Grand tack hypothesis", "text": "Grand tack hypothesis\n\nIn planetary astronomy, the grand tack hypothesis proposes that after its formation at 3.5 AU, Jupiter migrated inward to 1.5 AU, before reversing course due to capturing Saturn in an orbital resonance, eventually halting near its current orbit at 5.2 AU. The reversal of Jupiter's migration is likened to the path of a sailboat changing directions (tacking) as it travels against the wind.\n\nThe planetesimal disk is truncated at 1.0 AU by Jupiter's migration, limiting the material available to form Mars. Jupiter twice crosses the asteroid belt, scattering asteroids outward then inward. The resulting asteroid belt has a small mass, a wide range of inclinations and eccentricities, and a population originating from both inside and outside Jupiter's original orbit. Debris produced by collisions among planetesimals swept ahead of Jupiter may have driven an early generation of planets into the Sun.\n\nIn the grand tack hypothesis Jupiter underwent a two-phase migration after its formation, migrating inward to 1.5 AU before reversing course and migrating outward. Jupiter's formation took place near the ice line, at roughly 3.5 AU. After clearing a gap in the gas disk Jupiter underwent type II migration, moving slowly toward the Sun with the gas disk. If uninterrupted, this migration would have left Jupiter in a close orbit around the Sun like recently discovered hot Jupiters in other planetary systems. Saturn also migrated toward the Sun, but being smaller it migrated faster, undergoing either type I migration or runaway migration. Saturn converged on Jupiter and was captured in a 2:3 mean-motion resonance with Jupiter during this migration. An overlapping gap in the gas disk then formed around Jupiter and Saturn, altering the balance of forces on these planets which began migrating together. Saturn partially cleared its part of the gap reducing the torque exerted on Jupiter by the outer disk. The net torque on the planets then became positive, with the torques generated by the inner Lindblad resonances exceeding those from the outer disk, and the planets began to migrate outward. The outward migration was able to continue because interactions between the planets allowed gas to stream through the gap. The gas exchanged angular momentum with the planets during its passage, adding to the positive balance of torques; and transferred mass from the outer disk to the inner disk, allowing the planets to migrate outward relative to the disk. The transfer of gas to the inner disk also slowed the reduction of the inner disk's mass relative to the outer disk as it accreted onto the Sun, which otherwise would weaken the inner torque, ending the planets' outward migration. In the grand tack hypothesis this process is assumed to have reversed the inward migration of the planets when Jupiter is at 1.5 AU. The outward migration of Jupiter and Saturn continued until they reached a zero-torque configuration within a flared disk, or the gas disk dissipated, and is supposed to end with Jupiter near its current orbit.\n\nThe hypothesis can be applied to multiple phenomena in the Solar System.\n\nJupiter's grand tack resolves the Mars problem by limiting the material available to form Mars. The Mars problem is a conflict between some simulations of the formation of the terrestrial planets, which when begun with planetesimals distributed throughout the inner Solar System, end with a 0.5–1.0 Earth-mass planet in its region, much larger than the actual mass of Mars, 0.107 Earth-mass. Jupiter's inward migration alters this distribution of material, driving planetesimals inward to form a narrow dense band with a mix of materials inside 1.0 AU, and leaving the Mars region largely empty. Planetary embryos quickly form in the narrow band. While most later collide and merge to form the larger terrestrial planets (Venus and Earth), some are scattered outside the band. These scattered embryos, deprived of additional material slowing their growth, form the lower-mass terrestrial planets Mars and Mercury.\n\nJupiter and Saturn drive most asteroids from their initial orbits during their migrations, leaving behind an excited remnant derived from both inside and outside Jupiter's original location. Before Jupiter's migrations the surrounding regions contained asteroids which varied in composition with their distance from the Sun. Rocky asteroids dominated the inner region, while more primitive and icy asteroids dominated the outer region beyond the ice line. As Jupiter and Saturn migrate inward, ~15% of the inner asteroids are scattered outward onto orbits beyond Saturn. After reversing course, Jupiter and Saturn first encounter these objects, scattering about 0.5% of the original population back inward onto stable orbits. Later, as Jupiter and Saturn migrate into the outer region, about 0.5% of the primitive asteroids are scattered onto orbits in the outer asteroid belt. The encounters with Jupiter and Saturn leave many of the captured asteroids with large eccentricities and inclinations. Some of the icy asteroids are also left in orbits crossing the region where the terrestrial planets later formed, allowing water to be delivered to the accreting planets as when the icy asteroids collide with them.\n\nThe absence of close orbiting super-Earths in the Solar System may be the result of Jupiter's inward migration. As Jupiter migrates inward, planetesimals are captured in its mean-motion resonances, causing their orbits to shrink and their eccentricities to grow. A collisional cascade follows as their relative velocities became large enough to produce catastrophic impacts. The resulting debris then spirals inward toward the Sun due to drag from the gas disk. If there were super-Earths in the early Solar System, they would have caught much of this debris in resonances and could have been driven into the Sun ahead of it. The current terrestrial planets would then form from planetesimals left behind when Jupiter reversed course. However, the migration of close orbiting super-Earths into the Sun could be avoided if the debris coalesced into larger objects, reducing gas drag; and if the protoplanetary disk had an inner cavity, their inward migration could be halted near its edge.\n\nThe presence of a thick atmosphere around Titan and its absence around Ganymede and Callisto may be due to the timing of their formation relative to the grand tack. If Ganymede and Callisto formed before the grand tack their atmospheres would have been lost as Jupiter moved closer to the Sun. However, for Titan to avoid Type I migration into Saturn, and for Titan's atmosphere to survive, it must have formed after the grand tack.\n\nThe migration of the giant planets through the asteroid belt creates a spike in impact velocities that could result in the formation of CB chondrites. CB chondrites are metal rich carbonaceous chondrites containing iron/nickel nodules that formed from the crystallization of impact melts 4.8 ±0.3 Myrs after the first solids. The vaporization of these metals requires impacts of greater that 18 km/s, well beyond the maximum of 12.2 km/s in standard accretion models. Jupiter's migration across the asteroid belt increases the eccentricities and inclinations of the asteroids, resulting in a 0.5 Myr period of impact velocities sufficient to vaporize metals. If the formation of CB chondrites was due to Jupiter's migration it would have occurred 4.5-5 Myrs after the formation of the Solar System.\n\nFollowing the grand tack, perturbations from the terrestrial planets and the Nice model instability alter the orbital distribution of the remaining asteroids. The resulting eccentricity and semi-major axis distributions resemble that of the current asteroid belt. Some low-inclination asteroids are removed, leaving the inclination distribution slightly over-excited compared to the current asteroid belt.\n\nRecent modeling of the formation of planets from a narrow annulus indicates that the quick formation of Mars, the size of the Moon-forming impact, and the mass accreted by Earth following the formation of the Moon are best reproduced if the oligarchic growth phase ended with most of the mass in Mars-sized embryos and a small fraction in planetesimals. The Moon-forming impact occurs between 60 and 130 million years after the formation of the first solids in this scenario.\n\nEncounters with other embryos could destabilize a disk orbiting Mars reducing the mass of moons that form around Mars. After Mars is scattered from the annulus by encounters with other planets it continues to have encounters with other objects until the planets clear material from the inner Solar System. While these encounters enable the orbit of Mars to become decoupled from the other planets and remain on a stable orbit, they can also perturb the disk of material from which the moons of Mars form. These perturbations cause material to escape from the orbit of Mars or to impact on its surface reducing the mass of the disk resulting in the formation of smaller moons.\n\nSimulations of the formation of the terrestrial planets using models of the protoplanetary disk that include viscous heating and the migration of the planetary embryos indicate that Jupiter's migration may have reversed at 2.0 AU. In simulations the eccentricities of the embryos are excited by perturbations from Jupiter. As these eccentricities are damped by the denser gas disk of recent models, the semi-major axes of the embryos shrink, shifting the peak density of solids inward. For simulations with Jupiter's migration reversing at 1.5 AU, this resulted in the largest terrestrial planet forming near Venus's orbit rather than at Earth's orbit. Simulations that instead reversed Jupiter's migration at 2.0 AU yielded a closer match to the current Solar System.\n\nMost of the accretion of Mars must have taken place outside the narrow annulus of material formed by the grand tack if Mars has a different composition than Earth and Venus. The planets that grow in the annulus created by the grand tack end with similar compositions. If the grand tack occurred early, while the embryo that became Mars was relatively small, a Mars with a differing composition could form if it was instead scattered outward then inward like the asteroids. The chance of this occurring is roughly 2%.\n\nLater studies have shown that the convergent orbital migration of Jupiter and Saturn in the fading solar nebula is unlikely to establish a 3:2 mean-motion resonance. Instead of supporting a faster runaway migration, nebula conditions lead to a slower migration of Saturn and its capture in a 2:1 mean-motion resonance. Capture of Jupiter and Saturn in the 2:1 mean-motion resonance does not typically reverse the direction of migration, but particular nebula configurations have been identified that may drive outward migration. These configurations, however, tend to excite Jupiter's and Saturn's orbital eccentricity to values between two and three times as large as their actual values. Also, if the temperature and viscosity of the gas allow Saturn to produce a deeper gap, the resulting net torque can again become negative, resulting in the inward migration of the system.\n\nThe grand tack scenario ignores the ongoing accretion of gas on both Jupiter and Saturn. In fact, to drive outward migration and move the planets to the proximity of their current orbits, the solar nebula had to contain a sufficiently large reservoir of gas around the orbits of the two planets. However, this gas would provide a source for accretion, which would affect the growth of Jupiter and Saturn and their mass ratio. The type of nebula density required for capture in the 3:2 mean-motion resonance is especially dangerous for the survival of the two planets, because it can lead to significant mass growth and ensuing planet-planet scattering. But conditions leading to 2:1 mean-motion resonant systems may also put the planets at danger. Accretion of gas on both planets also tends to reduce the supply toward the inner disk, lowering the accretion rate toward the Sun. This process works to deplete somewhat the disk interior to Jupiter's orbit, weakening the torques on Jupiter arising from inner Lindblad resonances and potentially ending the planets' outward migration.\n\nA small Mars forms in a small but non-zero fraction of simulations of terrestrial planet accretion that begin with planetesimals distributed across the entire inner Solar System. If the accretion of the terrestrial planets occurred with Jupiter and Saturn in their present orbits (i.e. after the instability in the Nice model) a local depletion of the planetesimal disk near Mars's current orbit is sufficient for the formation of a low-mass Mars. An early instability can also result in a small Mars if the planetesimal disk contains large embryos. A planetesimal disk with a steep surface density profile, due to the inward drift of solids before the formation of planetesimals, also results in a small Mars and a low mass asteroid belt. If the gas disk is flared and the pebbles are large, pebble accretion by planetesimals and embryos becomes significantly less efficient with increasing distance from the Sun, preventing the growth of objects beyond the size of Mars at its distance and leaving the asteroid belt with a small mass. Sweeping secular resonances can excite inclinations and eccentricities, resulting in fragmentation instead of accretion as collision velocities increase, inhibiting the growth of planets beyond 1 AU.\n\nThe eccentricities and inclinations of a low-mass asteroid belt could have been exited by secular resonances if the resonant orbits of Jupiter and Saturn became chaotic during the period between the gas phase era and the instability of the Nice model. Secular resonances sweeping during the dissipation of the gas disk could also excite the orbits of the asteroids, and remove those outside a particular size range if they spiraled toward the Sun due to gas drag after their eccentricities were excited. The asteroid belt could also be excited and depleted by embedded embryos, either scattered inward by Jupiter, or left over from terrestrial planet formation. The former leaves the outer asteroid belt more excited than the inner asteroid belt, however, and the latter requires an additional ~90% depletion via an additional mechanism, more than in recent versions of the Nice model. If the region of the asteroid belt was initially empty it could have been populated by icy planetesimals that were scattered inward during Jupiter's and Saturn's gas accretion, and by stony asteroids that were scattered outward by the forming terrestrial planets. The inward scattered icy planetesimals could also deliver water to the terrestrial region.\n\nThe absence of inner super-Earths and the small mass of Mercury may be due to the formation of Jupiter's core close to the Sun and its outward migration across the inner Solar System. During its outward migration this core could push material outward in its resonances leaving the region inside Venus's orbit depleted. In a protoplanetary disk that is evolving via a disk wind planetary embryos may migrate outward in a leaving the Solar System without planets inside Mercury. An instability that led to catastrophic collisions between an early generational of inner planets may have resulted in the debris being ground small enough to be lost due to Poynting-Robertson drag. If planetesimal formation was limited to early in the gas disk epoch an inner edge of the planetesimal disk might be located at the silicate condensation line of this time. The magnetic field of some stars may have been aligned with the rotation of the disk, causing the gas in the inner regions of their disks to be depleted faster. This would enable the solid to gas ratio to reach values high enough for the formation of planetesimals via streaming instabilities closer than Mercury's orbit only in these systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "8155146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8155146", "title": "Hedetniemi's conjecture", "text": "Hedetniemi's conjecture\n\nIn graph theory, Hedetniemi's conjecture, formulated by Stephen T. Hedetniemi in 1966, concerns the connection between graph coloring and the tensor product of graphs. This conjecture states that\nHere χ(\"G\") denotes the chromatic number of an undirected finite graph \"G\".\n\nThe inequality χ(\"G\" × \"H\") ≤ min {χ(\"G\"), χ(\"H\")} is easy: if \"G\" is \"k\"-colored, one can \"k\"-color \"G\" × \"H\" by using the same coloring for each copy of \"G\" in the product; symmetrically if \"H\" is \"k\"-colored. Thus, Hedetniemi's conjecture amounts to the assertion that tensor products can't be colored with an unexpectedly small number of colors.\n\nClearly, any graph with a nonempty set of edges requires at least two colors; if \"G\" and \"H\" are not 1-colorable, that is, they both contain an edge, then their product also contains an edge, and is hence not 1-colorable either. In particular, the conjecture is true when \"G\" or \"H\" is a bipartite graph, since then its chromatic number is either 1 or 2.\n\nSimilarly, if two graphs \"G\" and \"H\" are not 2-colorable, that is, not bipartite, then both contain a cycle of odd length. Since the product of two odd cycle graphs contains an odd cycle, the product \"G\" × \"H\" is not 2-colorable either. In other words, if \"G\" × \"H\" is 2-colorable, then at least one of \"G\" and \"H\" must be 2-colorable as well.\n\nThe next case has been proved long after the conjecture's statement, by : if the product \"G\" × \"H\" is 3-colorable, then one of \"G\" or \"H\" must also be 3-colorable. In particular, the conjecture is true whenever \"G\" or \"H\" is 4-colorable (since then the inequality χ(\"G\" × \"H\") ≤ min {χ(\"G\"), χ(\"H\")} can only be strict when \"G\" × \"H\" is 3-colorable).\nIn the remaining cases, both graphs in the tensor product are at least 5-chromatic and progress has only been made for very restricted situations.\n\nThe following function (known as the \"Poljak-Rödl function\") measures how low the chromatic number of products of \"n\"-chromatic graphs can be.\nHedetniemi's conjecture is then equivalent to saying that .\nThe Weak Hedetniemi Conjecture instead states merely that the function \"f\"(\"n\") is unbounded.\nIn other words, if the tensor product of two graphs can be colored with few colors, this should imply some bound on the chromatic number of one of the factors.\n\nThe main result of , independently improved by Poljak, James H. Schmerl, and Zhu, states that if the function \"f\"(\"n\") is bounded, then it is bounded by at most 9. \nThus a proof of Hedetniemi's conjecture for 10-chromatic graphs would already imply the Weak Hedetniemi Conjecture for all graphs.\n\nThe conjecture is studied in the more general context of graph homomorphisms, especially because of interesting relations to the category of graphs (with graphs as objects and homomorphisms as arrows). For any fixed graph \"K\", one considers graphs \"G\" that admit a homomorphism to \"K\", written \"G\" → \"K\". These are also called \"K\"-colorable graphs. This generalizes the usual notion of graph coloring, since it follows from definitions that a \"k\"-coloring is the same as a \"K\"-coloring (a homomorphism into the complete graph on \"k\" vertices). \n\nA graph \"K\" is called multiplicative if for any graphs \"G\", \"H\", the fact that \"G\" × \"H\" → \"K\" holds implies that \"G\" → \"K\" or \"H\" → \"K\" holds.\nAs with classical colorings, the reverse implication always holds: if \"G\" (or \"H\", symmetrically) is \"K\"-colorable, then \"G\" × \"H\" is easily \"K\"-colored by using the same values independently of \"H\".\nHedetniemi's conjecture is then equivalent to the statement that each complete graph is multiplicative.\n\nThe above known cases are equivalent to saying that \"K\", \"K\", and \"K\" are multiplicative.\nThe case of \"K\" is widely open.\nOn the other hand, the proof of has been generalized by to show that all cycle graphs are multiplicative.\nLater, proved more generally that all circular cliques \"K\" with \"n/k < 4\" are multiplicative.\nIn terms of the circular chromatic number \"χ\", this means that if , then .\n\nExamples of non-multiplicative graphs can be constructed from two graphs \"G\" and \"H\" that are not comparable in the homomorphism order (that is, neither \"G\"→\"H\" nor \"H\"→\"G\" holds). In this case, letting \"K\"=\"G\"×\"H\", we trivially have \"G\"×\"H\"→\"K\", but neither \"G\" nor \"H\" can admit a homomorphism into \"K\", since composed with the projection \"K\"→\"H\" or \"K\"→\"G\" it would give a contradiction.\n\nSince the tensor product of graphs is the category-theoretic product in the category of graphs (with graphs as objects and homomorphisms as arrows), the conjecture can be rephrased in terms of the following construction on graphs \"K\" and \"G\".\nThe exponential graph is the graph with all functions as vertices (not only homomorphisms) and two functions \"f\",\"g\" adjacent when\nIn particular, there is a loop at a function \"f\" (it is adjacent to itself) if and only if the function gives a homomorphism from \"G\" to \"K\".\nSeen differently, there is an edge between \"f\" and \"g\" whenever the two functions define a homomorphism from \"G\" × \"K\" (the bipartite double cover of \"G\") to \"K\".\n\nThe exponential graph is the exponential object in the category of graphs. This means homomorphisms from \"G\" × \"H\" to a graph \"K\" correspond to homomorphisms from \"H\" to \"K\". \nMoreover, there is a homomorphism given by .\nThese properties allow to conclude that the multiplicativity of \"K\" is equivalent to statement:\n\nIn other words, Hedetniemi's conjecture can be seen as a statement on exponential graphs: for every integer \"k\", the graph \"K\" is either \"k\"-colorable, or it contains a loop (meaning \"G\" is \"k\"-colorable).\nOne can also see the homomorphisms as the \"hardest\" instances of Hedetniemi's conjecture: if the product \"G\" × \"H\" was a counterexample, then \"G\" × \"K\" would also be a counterexample.\n\nGeneralized to directed graphs, the conjecture has simple counterexamples, as observed by . Here, the chromatic number of a directed graph is just the chromatic number of the underlying graph, but the tensor product has exactly half the number of edges (for directed edges \"g→g' \" in \"G\" and \"h→h' \" in \"H\", the tensor product \"G\" × \"H\" has only one edge, from \"(g,h)\" to \"(g',h')\", while the product of the underlying undirected graphs would have an edge between \"(g,h')\" and \"(g',h)\" as well). \nHowever, the Weak Hedetniemi Conjecture turns out to be equivalent in the directed and undirected settings .\n\nThe problem cannot be generalized to infinite graphs: gave an example of two infinite graphs, each requiring an uncountable number of colors, such that their product can be colored with only countably many colors. proved that in the constructible universe, for every infinite cardinal formula_1, there exist a pair of graphs of chromatic number greater than formula_1, such that their product can still be colored with only countably many colors.\n\nA similar equality for the cartesian product of graphs was proven by and rediscovered several times afterwards. \nAn exact formula is also known for the lexicographic product of graphs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161388", "title": "Indirect self-reference", "text": "Indirect self-reference\n\nIndirect self-reference describes an object referring to itself \"indirectly\".\n\nFor example, define the function f such that f(x) = x(x). Any function passed as an argument to f is invoked with itself as an argument, and thus in any use of that argument is indirectly referring to itself.\n\nThis example is similar to the Scheme expression \"((lambda(x)(x x)) (lambda(x)(x x)))\", which is expanded to itself by beta reduction, and so its evaluation loops indefinitely despite the lack of explicit looping constructs. An equivalent example can be formulated in lambda calculus.\n\nIndirect self-reference is special in that its self-referential quality is not explicit, as it is in the sentence \"this sentence is false.\" The phrase \"this sentence\" refers directly to the sentence as a whole. An indirectly self-referential sentence would replace the phrase \"this sentence\" with an expression that effectively still referred to the sentence, but did not use the pronoun \"this.\"\n\nAn example will help to explain this. Suppose we define the quine of a phrase to be the quotation of the phrase followed by the phrase itself. So, the quine of:\nwould be:\nwhich, incidentally, is a true statement.\n\nNow consider the sentence:\n\nThe quotation here, plus the phrase \"when quined,\" indirectly refers to the entire sentence. The importance of this fact is that the remainder of the sentence, the phrase \"makes quite a statement,\" can now make a statement about the sentence as a whole. If we had used a pronoun for this, we could have written something like \"this sentence makes quite a statement.\"\n\nIt seems silly to go through this trouble when pronouns will suffice (and when they make more sense to the casual reader), but in systems of mathematical logic, there is generally no analog of the pronoun. It is somewhat surprising, in fact, that self-reference can be achieved at all in these systems.\n\nUpon closer inspection, it can be seen that in fact, the Scheme example above uses a quine, and f(x) is actually the quine function itself.\n\nIndirect self-reference was studied in great depth by W. V. Quine (after whom the operation above is named), and occupies a central place in the proof of Gödel's incompleteness theorem. Among the paradoxical statements developed by Quine is the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "34683882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34683882", "title": "John Atirau Asher", "text": "John Atirau Asher\n\nJohn Atirau Asher (8 August 1892 – 14 December 1966) was a New Zealand tribal leader, hotelier, interpreter and racehorse owner. Of Māori descent, he identified with the Ngati Pikiao, Ngati Pukenga and Te Arawa iwi. He was born in Tauranga, New Zealand, on 8 August 1892.\n\nAsher was the second-youngest of 11 children—his brothers included Ernie and Albert Asher.\n\nIn the 1965 Queen's Birthday Honours, Asher was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services to the Māori people.\n"}
{"id": "151736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151736", "title": "John Barbour (poet)", "text": "John Barbour (poet)\n\nJohn Barbour (c.1320 – 13 March 1395) was a Scottish poet and the first major named literary figure to write in Scots. His principal surviving work is the historical verse romance, \"The Brus\" (\"The Bruce\"), and his reputation from this poem is such that other long works in Scots which survive from the period are sometimes thought to be by him. He is known to have written a number of other works, but other titles definitely ascribed to his authorship, such as \"The Stewartis Oryginalle\" (\"Genealogy of the Stewarts\") and \"The Brut\" (\"Brutus\"), are now lost.\n\nBarbour was latterly Archdeacon of the Kirk of St Machar in Aberdeen. He also studied in Oxford and Paris. Although he was a man of the church, his surviving writing is strongly secular in both tone and themes. His principal patron was Robert II and evidence of his promotion and movements before Robert Stewart came to power as king tend to suggest that Barbour acted politically on the future king's behalf.\n\nHe died in 1395, probably in Aberdeen.\n\nJohn Barbour may have been born around 1320 if the record of his age in 1375 as 55 is correct. His birthplace is not known, though Aberdeenshire and Galloway have made rival claims.\n\nBarbour's first appearance in the historical record comes in 1356 with promotion to the archdeaconry of Aberdeen from a post he had held for less than a year in Dunkeld Cathedral. It is inferred from this that he was also present in Avignon in 1355. In 1357, when David II returned to Scotland from exile and was restored to active kingship, Barbour received a letter of safe-conduct to travel through England to the University of Oxford. He subsequently appears to have left the country in other years coincidental with periods when David II was active king.\n\nAfter the death of David II in 1371, Barbour served in the royal court of Robert II in a number of capacities. It was during this time that he composed, \"The Brus\", receiving for this in 1377 the gift of ten pounds Scots, and in 1378 a life-pension of twenty shillings. He held various posts in the king's household. In 1372 he was one of the auditors of exchequer and in 1373 a clerk of audit.\n\nThe only biographical evidence for his closing years is his signature as a witness to sindry deeds in the \"Register of Aberdeen\" in 1392. According to the obit-book of St Machar's Cathedral, Aberdeen he died on 13 March 1395 and state records show that his life-pension was not paid after that date. Barbour made provision for a mass to be sung for himself and his parents, an instruction that was observed in the Kirk of St Machar until the Reformation.\n\n\"The Brus\", Barbour's major surviving work, is a long narrative poem written while he was a member of the king's household in the 1370s. Its subject is the ultimate success of the prosecution of the First War of Scottish Independence. Its principal focus is Robert the Bruce and Sir James Douglas, but the second half of the poem also features actions of Robert II's Stewart forebears in the conflict.\n\nBarbour's purpose in the poem was partly historical and partly patriotic. He celebrates The Bruce (Robert I) and Douglas throughout as the flowers of Scottish chivalry. The poem opens with a description of the state of Scotland at the death of Alexander III (1286) and concludes (more or less) with the death of Douglas and the burial of the Bruce's heart (1332). Its central episode is the Battle of Bannockburn.\n\nPatriotic as the sentiment is, this is expressed in more general terms than is found in later Scottish literature. In the poem, Robert I's character is a hero of the chivalric type common in contemporary romance, Freedom is a \"noble thing\" to be sought and won at all costs, and the opponents of such freedom are shown in the dark colours which history and poetic propriety require, but there is none of the complacency of the merely provincial habit of mind.\n\nBarbour's style in the poem is vigorous, his line generally fluid and quick, and there are passages of high merit. The most quoted part is Book 1, lines 225-228:\n\nOne of Barbour's known lost work is \"The Stewartis Oryginalle\" which is described as having traced the genealogy of the Stewarts. The Stewart name replaced that of Bruce in the Scottish royal line when Robert II acceded to the throne after the death of David II, his uncle.\n\nRobert II was Barbour's royal patron. It is not known how the work came to be lost.\n\nAttempts have been made to name Barbour as the author of the \"Buik of Alexander\", a Scots translation of the \"Roman d'Alexandre\" and other associated pieces. This translation borrows much from \"The Brus\". It survives and is known to us from the unique edition printed in Edinburgh, c. 1580, by Alexander Arbuthnot.\n\nAnother possible work was added to Barbour's canon with the discovery in the library of the University of Cambridge, by Henry Bradshaw, of a long Scots poem of over 33,000 lines, dealing with Legends of the Saints, as told in the \"Legenda Aurea\" and other legendaries. The general likeness of this poem to Barbour's accepted work in verse-length, dialect and style, and the facts that the lives of English saints are excluded and those of St. Machar (the patron saint of Aberdeen) and St. Ninian are inserted, make this ascription plausible. Later criticism, though divided, has tended in the contrary direction, and has based its strongest negative judgment on the consideration of rhymes, assonance and vocabulary.\n\nAs \"father\" of Scots poetry, Barbour holds a place in the Scotland's literary tradition similar to the position often given to Chaucer, his slightly later contemporary, \"vis a vis\" the vernacular tradition in England. If he truly was the author of the five or six long works in Scots which different witnesses ascribe to him, then he would have been one of the most voluminous writers of Early Scots, if not the most voluminous of all Scots poets. But his authorship of \"The Brus\" alone, both for its original employment of the chivalric genre, and as a tale of a struggle against tyranny, secures his place as an important and innovative literary voice who broke new linguistic ground.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24243857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24243857", "title": "Jonas C. Greenfield", "text": "Jonas C. Greenfield\n\nJonas Carl Greenfield (October 20, 1926 in New York City – March 13, 1995 in Jerusalem) was a scholar of Semitic languages, who published in the fields of Semitic Epigraphy, Aramaic Studies and Qumran Studies.\n\nGreenfield studied at Yale, receiving a Master of Arts in 1951 and his doctorate in 1956 (with a dissertation on \"The Lexical Status of Mishnaic Hebrew\"). He taught at Brandeis University (1954–56), University of California, Los Angeles (1956–1965), the University of California, Berkeley (1965–71), and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (1971–1995). In 1990 he became Caspar Levias Professor of Ancient Semitic Languages at the Hebrew University.\n\nHe was a member of the committee of translators of the \"Ketuvim\" (the \"Writings\") for the New JPS Translation of the Tanakh.\n\nIn 1995 a festschrift was published in his honor, \"Solving Riddles and Untying Knots. Biblical, Epigraphic, and Semitic Studies in Honor of Jonas C. Greenfield\". In 2000 the American Oriental Society established a prize to honor his memory, the \"Jonas C. Greenfield Prize For Younger Semitists\". The Orion Center for the Study of the Dead Sea Scrolls and Associated Literature, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, has held the \"Jonas C. Greenfield Scholars’ Seminar\" since 1999. Israel Exploration Journal 45 no. 2-3 (1995) 61-200 was issued as the \"Jonas C. Greenfield Memorial Volume.\" Obituaries, in addition to the latter, pages 83–84, include Ziony Zevit, Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research 298 (May 1995) 3-5 and Mark S. Smith, American Schools of Oriental Research Newsletter 45 no, 1 (Spring 1995) 1-2. For an appreciation of his work on Qumran and related texts see Baruch A. Levine, \"The Contribution of Jonas Greenfield to the Study of Dead Sea Literature.\" Dead Sea Discoveries, Vol. 3, No. 1 (Mar., 1996), pp. 2–9\n\nAmong his many publications are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4400932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4400932", "title": "Joseph Mundassery", "text": "Joseph Mundassery\n\nJoseph Mundassery (17 July 1903 – 25 October 1977) was a literary critic and Indian politician from Kerala state. He specialised in the Malayalam language and literature. In Kerala politics, he is remembered as the Education Minister who was behind the controversial Education Bill of the first EMS communist ministry of 1957.\n\nJoseph Mundassery was born at Kandassankadavu, Thrissur. After his schooling locally he took his bachelor's degree in Physics and later the master's degree in Sanskrit and Malayalam. Until 1952, he was the Head of the Department of Foreign Languages at St. Thomas College, Trichur.\n\nMundassery entered politics through the Kochi Prajamandalam and was elected as a Member of the Legislative Council (MLC) of the princely state of Cochin in 1948 from the constituency of Aranattukara. Later on he became an MLC in the Travancore-Cochin Assembly in 1954, from Cherpu.\n\nAfter the formation of the state of Kerala in 1956, he won the Assembly election in 1957, from Manaloor, and went on to become Kerala’s first Education Minister (1957–59) in the EMS Communist ministry. Finally, in 1970, he was elected as an MLA from Trichur constituency.\n\nAs a prominent figure in the field of Malayalam literary criticism, Mundassery was one among a well-known trio of Malayalam critics, the others being Kesari Balakrishna Pillai and M. P. Paul.\n\nThrough his controversial theory about Rooparbhadrata – formal excellence – Mundassery ushered in a new chapter of literary hermeneutics, which was unheard of in Malayalam until then. According to the theory the proclaimed aim of the author would inevitably lead to intentional fallacy, and that an author should be evaluated on more objective criteria like his role as a spokesman of his age.\n\nHe was the President of the Kerala Sahithya Parishad 1965-67, executive (and founding) member of the Kerala Sahithya Academy. He was also instrumental in establishing the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academy and was a member of the Kendra Sahithya Academy.\n\nMundassery’s notability as an educationist rests partly to the reforms that he partially succeeded in bringing about in the educational sector in Kerala when he was the Education Minister. He authored the controversial Education Bill of the First communist ministry of Kerala. To a great extent the proposed bill directly led to the snowballing of the Vimochana Samaram and the subsequent downfall of the E.M.S. Namboodiripad's first communist ministry in 1959.\n\nEven though the Bill failed to pass through the Assembly, many of its provisions were later implemented by subsequent governments, albeit with amendments. As the Education Minister of the first democratically elected ministry of the newly formed State of Kerala, Mundassery was instrumental in the establishment and restructuring of some of the early universities and prime educational institutions of the state, having had experience as the Vice Chancellor of the Cochin University of Science and Technology.\n\nMundassery was the guru of many pupils at St. Thomas College, Trichur, among whom were some of the future leaders of Kerala such as C. Achutha Menon and Mathai Manjooran.\n\nMundassery died in 1977.\n\nNovels: \"Professor\", \"Konthayil Ninnu Kurissilekku\", \"Parappurathu Vithacha Vithu\".\n\nLiterary Criticism: \"Kavyapeedhika, Manadandam, Mattoli, Manushyakathanugayikal, Vayanashalayil (3 parts), Rajarajante Mattoli, Natakantham Kavithwam Karinthiri, Kumaranasante Kavitha - Oru Padanam, Valltholinte Kavitha - Oru Padanam Roopabhadratha, Anthareeksham, Prayanam, Pashchathya Sahithya Sameeksha\".\n\nShort Stories: \"Sammanam, Kadaksham, Illapolice\".\n\nTravelogues: \"Ottanoottathil, China Munnottu\".\n\nAutobiography: \"Kozinga Elagal\" ( part I and part II ).\n\n"}
{"id": "38542394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38542394", "title": "Kaiep language", "text": "Kaiep language\n\nKaiep is one of three Kairiru languages spoken in East Sepik Province of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "13348769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13348769", "title": "Kallawaya language", "text": "Kallawaya language\n\nKallawaya, also Callahuaya or Callawalla is an endangered, secret, mixed language in Bolivia. It is spoken by the Kallawaya people, a group of traditional itinerant healers in the Andes in their medicinal healing practice.\n\nKallawaya is a mixed language. The grammar is partially Quechua in morphology, but most of its words are from either unknown sources or from an otherwise extinct language family, Pukina. Pukina was abandoned in favor of Quechua, Aymara, and Spanish.\n\nKallawaya is also a secret language, passed only by father to son, or grandfather to grandson, or rarely, to daughters if a practitioner has no sons. It is not used in normal family dialogue. Although its use is primarily ritual, used secretly for initiated men, Kallawaya may be a part of everyday conversation between those familiar with it.\n\nKallawaya was one of the subjects of Ironbound Films' 2008 American documentary film \"The Linguists\", in which two linguists attempted to document several moribund languages.\n\nBolivians refer to the region where the speakers live as \"Qollahuayas,\" meaning \"place of the medicines\", because the Kallawaya are renowned herbalists. Since they treat or cure with plants, minerals, animal products, and rituals, peasants refer to the speakers as \"Qolla kapachayuh\", meaning \"lords of the medicine bag\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20167521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20167521", "title": "Korean language in China", "text": "Korean language in China\n\nThe Chinese Korean language (, ) is the variety of the Korean language spoken by Ethnic Koreans in China, primarily located in Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning.\n\nAll varieties of Korean except the Jeju language are spoken by members of the Korean diaspora who settled in China before 1949. The educational standard is the North Korean standard language.\n\nChinese Korean vocabulary is significantly similar to the North Korean standard, as is orthography; a major exception of orthography is that the spelling of some Chinese cities is different (for example, Beijing is called by the Hanja reading of 北京, \"Bukgyeong\", rather than the South Korean transcription of Mandarin \"Beijing\", ); exceptions of vocabulary are all related to China.\n\nDue to the People's Republic of China having maintained favorable relations with North Korea, and also the proximity of the two nations, the standardised dialect of Korean amongst Chinese-Koreans is similar to that of North Korea.\n\nThe copula \"-ᆸ니까/-습니까\" in Standard Korean is rendered as \"-ᆷ둥/-슴둥\" in dialects of Korean spoken in Northeastern Jilin, and \"-ᆷ니꺼/-심니꺼\" in dialects spoken in Southwestern Heilongjiang.\n\nAt the same time, there are grammatical influences from Standard Chinese, for example:\n\nVocabulary is another differentiating factor in comparison with other varieties of Korean, with usage of words such as 개구리 and 개구락지 (frog). As a result of Chinese influence, there are many words that arise from Modern Standard Chinese.\n\nSome words arise from the \"eum\" pronunciation of hanja, for example 공인 (工人, worker) and 판공실 (辦公室, office).\n\n"}
{"id": "17999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17999", "title": "Latin spelling and pronunciation", "text": "Latin spelling and pronunciation\n\nLatin spelling, or Latin orthography, is the spelling of Latin words written in the scripts of all historical phases of Latin from Old Latin to the present. All scripts use the same alphabet, but conventional spellings may vary from phase to phase. The Roman alphabet, or Latin alphabet, was adapted from the Old Italic script to represent the phonemes of the Latin language. The Old Italic script had in turn been borrowed from the Greek alphabet, itself adapted from the Phoenician alphabet.\nThe Latin alphabet most resembles the Greek alphabet around 540 BC, as it appears on the red-figures pottery of the time. \n\nLatin pronunciation continually evolved over the centuries, making it difficult for speakers in one era to know how Latin was spoken in prior eras. A given phoneme may be represented by different letters in different periods. This article deals primarily with modern scholarship's best reconstruction of Classical Latin's phonemes (phonology) and the pronunciation and spelling used by educated people in the late Republic. This article then touches upon later changes and other variants.\n\nThe forms of the Latin alphabet used during the Classical period did not distinguish between upper case and lower case. Roman inscriptions typically use Roman square capitals, which resemble modern capitals, and handwritten text often uses old Roman cursive, which includes letterforms similar to modern lowercase.\n\nThis article uses small caps for Latin text, representing Roman square capitals, and long vowels are marked with acutes, representing apices. In the tables below, Latin letters and digraphs are paired with the phonemes they usually represent in the International Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nIn ancient Latin spelling, individual letters mostly corresponded to individual phonemes, with three main exceptions:\n\nIn the tables below, Latin letters and digraphs are paired with the phonemes that they usually represent in the International Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nThis is a table of the consonant sounds of Classical Latin. Sounds in parentheses are allophones, sounds with an asterisk exist mainly in loanwords and sounds with a dagger (†) are phonemes only in some analyses.\n\n\n\nLatin has ten native vowels, spelled \"a\", \"e\", \"i\", \"o\", \"u\". In Classical Latin, each vowel had short and long versions: and . The long versions of the close and mid vowels \"e\", \"i\", \"o\", \"u\" had a different vowel quality from the short versions, so that long were similar to short . Some loanwords from Greek had the vowel \"y\", which was pronounced as by educated speakers but approximated with the native vowels \"u\" and \"i\" by less educated speakers.\n\nEach vowel letter (with the possible exception of \"y\") represents at least two phonemes. \"a\" can represent either short or long , \"e\" represents either or , etc.\n\nShort mid vowels () and close vowels () were pronounced with a different quality from their long counterparts, being also more open: , , and . This opening made the short vowels \"i u\" similar in quality to long \"é ó\" respectively. \"i é\" and \"u ó\" were often written in place of each other in inscriptions:\n\nShort most likely had a more open allophone before and tended toward near-open .\n\nShort and were probably pronounced closer when they occurred before another vowel. \"mea\" was written as \"mia\" in inscriptions. Short before another vowel is often written with \"i longa\", as in \"dīes\", indicating that its quality was similar to that of long and is almost never confused with \"e\" in this position.\n\n\"y\" was used in Greek loanwords with upsilon Υ. This letter represented the close front rounded vowel, both short and long: . Latin did not have this sound as a distinctive phoneme, and speakers tended to pronounce such loanwords with in Old Latin and in Classical and Late Latin if they were unable to produce .\n\nAn intermediate vowel sound (likely a close central vowel or possibly its rounded counterpart ), called \"sonus medius\", can be reconstructed for the classical period. Such a vowel is found in \"documentum\", \"optimus\", \"lacrima\" (also spelled \"docimentum\", \"optumus\", \"lacruma\") and other words. It developed out of a historical short , later fronted by vowel reduction. In the vicinity of labial consonants, this sound was not as fronted and may have retained some rounding.\n\nVowels followed by a nasal consonant were allophonically realised as long nasal vowels in two environments:\nThose long nasal vowels had the same quality as ordinary long vowels. In Vulgar Latin, the vowels lost their nasalisation, and they merged with the long vowels (which were themselves shortened by that time). This is shown by many forms in the Romance languages, such as Spanish \"costar\" from Vulgar Latin \"cōstāre\" (originally \"constāre\") and Italian \"mese\" from Vulgar Latin \"mēse\" (Classical Latin \"mensem\"). On the other hand, the short vowel and was restored in French \"enseigne\" and \"enfant\" from \"insignia\" and \"infantem\" (\"e\" is the normal development of Latin short \"i\"), likely by analogy with other forms beginning in the prefix \"in-\".\n\nWhen a final \"-m\" occurred before a plosive or nasal in the next word, however, it was pronounced as a nasal at the place of articulation of the following consonant. For instance, \"tan dūrum\" was written for \"tam dūrum\" in inscriptions, and \"cum nōbīs\" was a double entendre, possibly for \"cunnō bis\" .\n\n\"ae\", \"oe\", \"au\", \"ei\", \"eu\" could represent diphthongs: \"ae\" represented , \"oe\" represented , \"au\" represented , \"ei\" represented , and \"eu\" represented . \"ui\" sometimes represented the diphthong , as in \"cui\" and \"huic\".\n\nIf there is a tréma above the second vowel, both vowels are pronounced separately: \"aë\" , \"aü\" , \"eü\" and \"oë\" .\n\nIn Old Latin, \"ae\", \"oe\" were written as \"ai\", \"oi\" and probably pronounced as , with a fully closed second element, similar to the final syllable in French . In the late Old Latin period, the last element of the diphthongs was lowered to , so that the diphthongs were pronounced and in Classical Latin, similar to the diphthongs in English and . They were then monophthongized to and , starting in rural areas at the end of the Republican period. The process, however, does not seem to have been completed before the 3rd century AD in Vulgar Latin, and some scholars say that it may have been regular by the 5th century.\n\nVowel and consonant length were more significant and more clearly defined in Latin than in modern English. Length is the duration of time that a particular sound is held before proceeding to the next sound in a word. Unfortunately, \"vowel length\" is a confusing term for English speakers, who, in their language, call \"long vowels\" what are usually diphthongs rather than monophthongs. (That is a relic of the Great Vowel Shift, during which vowels that had once been pronounced phonemically longer turned into diphthongs.) In the modern spelling of Latin, especially in dictionaries and academic work, macrons are frequently used to mark long vowels: , while the breve is sometimes used to indicate that a vowel is short: .\n\nLong consonants were usually indicated through doubling, but ancient Latin orthography did not distinguish between the vocalic and consonantal uses of \"i\" and \"v\". Vowel length was indicated only intermittently in classical sources and even then through a variety of means. Later medieval and modern usage tended to omit vowel length altogether. A short-lived convention of spelling long vowels by doubling the vowel letter is associated with the poet Lucius Accius. Later spelling conventions marked long vowels with an apex (a diacritic similar to an acute accent) or, in the case of long i, by increasing the height of the letter (long i); in the second century AD, those were given apices as well. Distinctions of vowel length had become less important in later Latin and have ceased to be phonemic in the modern Romance languages, in which the previous long and short versions of the vowels have been either lost or replaced by other phonetic contrasts.\nA minimal set showing both long and short vowels and long and short consonants is \"ānus\" ('buttocks'), \"annus\" ('year'), \"anus\" ('old woman').\n\nIt is hypothesised that in Old Latin, as in Proto-Italic, stress normally fell on the first syllable of a word. During this period, the word-initial stress triggered changes in the vowels of non-initial syllables, the effects of which are still visible in classical Latin. Compare for example:\nIn the earliest Latin writings, the original unreduced vowels are still visible. Study of this vowel reduction, as well as syncopation (dropping of short unaccented syllables) in Greek loan words, indicates that the stress remained word-initial until around the time of Plautus, the 3rd century BC. The placement of the stress then shifted to become the pattern found in classical Latin.\n\nIn Classical Latin, stress changed. It moved from the first syllable to one of the last three syllables, called the antepenult, the penult, and the ultima (short for \"antepaenultima\" 'before almost last', \"paenultima\" 'almost last', and \"ultima syllaba\" 'last syllable'). Its position is determined by the syllable weight of the penult. If the penult is heavy, it is accented; if the penult is light and there are more than two syllables, the antepenult is accented. In a few words originally accented on the penult, accent is on the ultima because the two last syllables have been contracted, or the last syllable has been lost.\n\nTo determine stress, syllable weight of the penult must be determined. To determine syllable weight, words must be broken up into syllables. In the following examples, syllable structure is represented using these symbols: C (a consonant), K (a stop), R (a liquid), and V (a short vowel), VV (a long vowel or diphthong).\n\nEvery short vowel, long vowel, or diphthong belongs to a single syllable. This vowel forms the syllable nucleus. Thus \"magistrārum\" has four syllables, one for every vowel (a i ā u: V V VV V), \"aereus\" has three (ae e u: VV V V), \"tuō\" has two (u ō: V VV), and \"cui\" has one (ui: VV).\n\nA consonant before a vowel, or a consonant cluster at the beginning of a word, is placed in the same syllable as the following vowel. This consonant or consonant cluster forms the syllable onset.\n\nAfter this, if there is an additional consonant inside the word, it is placed at the end of the syllable. This consonant is the syllable coda. Thus if a consonant cluster of two consonants occurs between vowels, they are broken up between syllables: one goes with the syllable before, the other with the syllable after.\n\nThere are two exceptions. A consonant cluster of a stop \"p t c b d g\" followed by a liquid \"l r\" between vowels usually goes to the syllable after it, although it is also sometimes broken up like other consonant clusters.\n\nAs shown in the examples above, Latin syllables have a variety of possible structures. Here are some of them. The first four examples are light syllables, and the last six are heavy. All syllables have at least one V (vowel). A syllable is heavy if it has another V or a VC after the first V. In the table below, the extra V or VC is bolded, indicating that it makes the syllable heavy.\n\nThus, a syllable is heavy if it ends in a long vowel or diphthong, a short vowel and a consonant, a long vowel and a consonant, or a diphthong and a consonant. Syllables ending in a diphthong and consonant are rare in Classical Latin.\n\nThe syllable onset has no relationship to syllable weight; both heavy and light syllables can have no onset or an onset of one, two, or three consonants.\n\nIn Latin a syllable that is heavy because it ends in a long vowel or diphthong is traditionally called \"syllaba nātūrā longa\" ('syllable long by nature'), and a syllable that is heavy because it ends in a consonant is called \"positiōne longa\" ('long by position'). These terms are translations of Greek \"συλλαβὴ μακρά φύσει\" (\"syllabḕ makrá phýsei\" = 'syllable long by nature') and \"μακρὰ θέσει\" (\"makrà thései\" = 'long by proposition'), respectively; therefore \"positiōne\" should not be mistaken for implying a syllable \"is long because of its position/place in a word\" but rather \"is treated as 'long' by convention\". This article uses the words \"heavy\" and \"light\" for syllables, and \"long\" and \"short\" for vowels since the two are not the same.\n\nIn a word of three or more syllables, the weight of the penult determines where the accent is placed. If the penult is light, accent is placed on the antepenult; if it is heavy, accent is placed on the penult. Below, stress is marked by placing the stress mark before the stressed syllable.\n\nIambic shortening or \"brevis brevians\" is vowel shortening that occurs in words of the type \"light–heavy\", where the light syllable is stressed. By this sound change, words like \"egō\", \"modō\", \"benē\", \"amā\" with long final vowel change to \"ego\", \"modo\", \"bene\", \"ama\" with short final vowel.\n\nWhere one word ended with a vowel (including a nasalized vowel, represented by a vowel plus \"m\") and the next word began with a vowel, the former vowel, at least in verse, was regularly elided; that is, it was omitted altogether, or possibly (in the case of and ) pronounced like the corresponding semivowel. When the second word was \"est\" or \"et\", a different form of elision sometimes occurred (prodelision): the vowel of the preceding word was retained, and the \"e\" was elided instead. Elision also occurred in Ancient Greek, but in that language, it is shown in writing by the vowel in question being replaced by an apostrophe, whereas in Latin elision is not indicated at all in the orthography, but can be deduced from the verse form. Only occasionally is it found in inscriptions, as in \"scriptust\" for \"scriptum est\".\n\nModern usage, even for classical Latin texts, varies in respect of \"I\" and \"V\". During the Renaissance, the printing convention was to use \"I\" (upper case) and \"i\" (lower case) for both vocalic and consonantal , to use \"V\" in the upper case and in the lower case to use \"v\" at the start of words and \"u\" subsequently within the word regardless of whether and was represented.\n\nMany publishers (such as Oxford University Press) have adopted the convention of using \"I\" (upper case) and \"i\" (lower case) for both and , and \"V\" (upper case) and \"u\" (lower case) for both and .\n\nAn alternative approach, less common today, is to use \"i\" and \"u\" only for the vowels and \"j\" and \"v\" for the approximants.\n\nMost modern editions, however, adopt an intermediate position, distinguishing between \"u\" and \"v\" but not between \"i\" and \"j\". Usually, the non-vocalic \"v\" after \"q\" or \"g\" is still printed as \"u\" rather than \"v\", probably because in this position it did not change from to in post-classical times.\n\nTextbooks and dictionaries indicate the length of vowels by putting a macron or horizontal bar above the long vowel, but it is not generally done in regular texts. Occasionally, mainly in early printed texts up to the 18th century, one may see a circumflex used to indicate a long vowel where this makes a difference to the sense, for instance, \"Româ\" ('from Rome' ablative) compared to \"Roma\" ('Rome' nominative). Sometimes, for instance in Roman Catholic service books, an acute accent over a vowel is used to indicate the stressed syllable. It would be redundant for one who knew the classical rules of accentuation and made the correct distinction between long and short vowels, but most Latin speakers since the 3rd century have not made any distinction between long and short vowels, but they have kept the accents in the same places; thus, the use of accent marks allows speakers to read a word aloud correctly even if they never heard it spoken aloud.\n\nSince around the beginning of the Renaissance period onwards, with the language being used as an international language among intellectuals, pronunciation of Latin in Europe came to be dominated by the phonology of local languages, resulting in a variety of different pronunciation systems.\n\nWhen Latin words are used as loanwords in a modern language, there is ordinarily little or no attempt to pronounce them as the Romans did; in most cases, a pronunciation suiting the phonology of the receiving language is employed.\n\nLatin words in common use in English are generally fully assimilated into the English sound system, with little to mark them as foreign, for example, \"cranium\", \"saliva\". Other words have a stronger Latin feel to them, usually because of spelling features such as the digraphs \"ae\" and \"oe\" (occasionally written as ligatures: \"æ\" and \"œ\", respectively), which both denote in English. The digraph \"ae\" or ligature \"æ\" in some words tend to be given an pronunciation, for example, \"curriculum vitae\".\n\nHowever, using loan words in the context of the language borrowing them is a markedly different situation from the study of Latin itself. In this classroom setting, instructors and students attempt to recreate at least some sense of the original pronunciation. What is taught to native anglophones is suggested by the sounds of today's Romance languages, the direct descendants of Latin. Instructors who take this approach rationalize that Romance vowels probably come closer to the original pronunciation than those of any other modern language (see also the section below on \"Derivative languages\").\n\nHowever, other languages—including Romance family members—all have their own interpretations of the Latin phonological system, applied both to loan words and formal study of Latin. But English, Romance, or other teachers do not always point out that the particular accent their students learn is not actually the way ancient Romans spoke.\n\nBecause of the central position of Rome within the Catholic Church, an Italian pronunciation of Latin became commonly accepted, but this was not the case until the latter part of the 19th century. This pronunciation corresponds to that of the Latin-derived words in Italian. Before then, the pronunciation of Latin in church was the same as the pronunciation as Latin in other fields and tended to reflect the sound values associated with the nationality of the speaker.\n\nThe following are the main points that distinguish modern ecclesiastical pronunciation from Classical Latin pronunciation:\n\n\nIn his \"Vox Latina: A guide to the Pronunciation of Classical Latin\", William Sidney Allen remarked that this pronunciation, used by the Catholic Church in Rome and elsewhere, and whose adoption Pope Pius X recommended in a 1912 letter to the Archbishop of Bourges, \"is probably less far removed from classical Latin than any other 'national' pronunciation\"; but, as can be seen from the table above, there are, nevertheless, very significant differences. The introduction to the \"Liber Usualis\" indicates that Ecclesiastical Latin pronunciation should be used at Church liturgies. Ecclesiastical pronunciation is also the preferred pronunciation of Catholics whenever speaking Latin even if not as part of liturgy. The Pontifical Academy for Latin is the pontifical academy in the Vatican that is charged with the dissemination and education of Catholics in the Latin language.\n\nOutside of Austria and Germany, it is the most widely used standard in choral singing which, with a few exceptions like Stravinsky's \"Oedipus rex\", is concerned with liturgical texts. Anglican choirs adopted it when classicists abandoned traditional English pronunciation after World War II. The rise of historically informed performance and the availability of guides such as Copeman's \"Singing in Latin\" has led to the recent revival of regional pronunciations.\n\nBecause it gave rise to many modern languages, Latin did not strictly \"die\"; it merely evolved over the centuries in diverse ways. The local dialects of Vulgar Latin that emerged eventually became modern Italian, Spanish, French, Romanian, Portuguese, Catalan, Romansh, Dalmatian, Sardinian, and many others.\n\nKey features of Vulgar Latin and Romance languages include:\n\n\nThe following examples are both in verse, which demonstrates several features more clearly than prose.\n\nVirgil's \"Aeneid\", Book 1, verses 1–4. Quantitative metre (dactylic hexameter). Translation: \"I sing of arms and the man, who, driven by fate, came first from the borders of Troy to Italy and the Lavinian shores; he [was] much afflicted both on lands and on the deep by the power of the gods, because of fierce Juno's vindictive wrath.\"\nNote the elisions in \"mult(um)\" and \"ill(e)\" in the third line. For a fuller discussion of the prosodic features of this passage, see Dactylic hexameter.\n\nSome manuscripts have \"Lāvīna\" rather than \"Lāvīnia\" in the second line.\n\nBeginning of \"Pange Lingua Gloriosi Corporis Mysterium\" by Thomas Aquinas (13th century). Rhymed accentual metre. Translation: \"Extol, [my] tongue, the mystery of the glorious body and the precious blood, which the fruit of a noble womb, the king of nations, poured out as the price of the world.\"\n\n1. Traditional orthography as in Roman Catholic service books (stressed syllable marked with an acute accent on words of three syllables or more).\n\n2. \"Italianate\" ecclesiastical pronunciation\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19919039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19919039", "title": "List of Welsh-language television channels", "text": "List of Welsh-language television channels\n\nThis is a list of television channels that broadcast in Welsh language.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57527097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57527097", "title": "Lutfullah Halimi", "text": "Lutfullah Halimi\n\nLutfullah Halimi (, ; died 1516) was an Ottoman poet and lexicographer of Persian origin.\n\nHalimi was born to a certain Abi Yusof. Information about his place of birth and education remains unclear. According to Aşık Çelebi, Halimi had migrated from Iran and climbed up the ladder through the support of Mahmud Pasha, the grand vizier at the time. Sources of a later time state that Halimi hailed from Amasya near the Black Sea. According to his own works, Halimi had moved from Iran whereafter he was made tutor to Prince Mehmed (later known as Sultan Mehmed the Conqueror, i.e. Mehmed II).\n\nIt is likely that Halimi became the judge of Sivas during the 2nd reign of Mehmed the Conqueror.\n\nAccording to Kâtip Çelebi, Halimi's death was the result of murder.\n\nHalimi's known works are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3077003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3077003", "title": "Microoxygenation", "text": "Microoxygenation\n\nMicro-oxygenation is a process used in winemaking to introduce oxygen into wine in a controlled manner. Developed in 1991 by Patrick DuCournau, working with the exceptionally tannic grape Tannat in Madiran, the process gained usage in modern winemaking following the 1996 authorization by the European Commission. Today, the technique is widely employed in Bordeaux, as well as at least 11 different countries, including the United States and Chile.\n\nThe process of micro-oxygenation involves a large two chamber device with valves interconnected to a tank of oxygen. In the first chamber, the oxygen is calibrated to match the volume of the wine. In the second chamber, the oxygen is injected into the wine through a porous ceramic stone located at the bottom of the chamber. The dosage is controlled and can range anywhere from .75 to 3 cubic centimetres per liter of wine. The process normally occurs in multiple treatments that can last anywhere from one or two treatments during the early stages of fermentation (to help avoid stuck fermentation) to a more prolonged treatment during the maturation period that can last four to eight months.\n\nMicro-oxygenation affects colour, aromatic bouquet, mouth-feel and phenolic content. Carboxypyranoanthocyanidins can be considered markers of microoxygenation techniques.\n\nExposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults. In barrel aging, the natural properties of the wood allow for gentle aeration of the wine to occur over a prolonged period. This aids in polymerization of tannin into larger molecules, which could fall out of solution, not promoting protein precipitation in the mouth and thus improving mouth astringency. The process of micro-oxygenation aims to mimic the effects of slow barrel maturation in a shorter period or for lower cost. It also enables more control over the process.\n\nDuring fermentation, the added oxygen can help maintain the viability of the yeast to minimize the risk of stuck fermentation and the production of undesirable sulfides. After fermentation it can aid in the clarification and stabilization of the wine without resorting to the use of fining agents.\n\nResearch in the 2000-2010 era suggests the polymerization view of wine development is overly simplistic. As of 2012, research suggest the polymerization view of wine development is misguided, and the real chemical processes so complex and interdependent that they are yet to be elucidated.\n"}
{"id": "54588793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54588793", "title": "Mucuchí–Marripú language", "text": "Mucuchí–Marripú language\n\nMucuchí–Marripú is a language of Venezuela.\n"}
{"id": "10310495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10310495", "title": "Nirupama Dutt", "text": "Nirupama Dutt\n\nNirupama Dutt (born 1955) is an Indian poet, journalist and translator. She writes poems in Punjabi, and translates them into English herself.\n\nA senior journalist with forty years of experience, she has worked with leading Indian newspapers and journals. Her biography of a Dalit Icon 'The Ballad of Bant Singh'has been widely noticed. She has also translated the memoirs and poetry of Punjab's Dalit revolutionary poet Lal Singh Dil in a volume called 'Poet of the Revolution'. She has published one volume of poems – \"Ik Nadi Sanwali Jahi\" (\"A Stream Somewhat Dark\") – for which she was awarded the Delhi Punjabi Akademi Award in 2000. Her poetry has been translated into English, Hindi, Kannada, Bengali and Urdu and featured in various anthologies. In 2004, she co-edited with Ajeet Cour an anthology of SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) poetry entitled \"Our Voices\".\n\nShe has translated the short poems of Gulzar in a volume titled 'Pluto' and 'Stories of the Soil' is her translation of 41 Punjabi stories into English. She has also edited a book of fiction by Pakistani women writers called \"Half the Sky\" and one of resistance literature of Pakistan called 'Children of the Night'.\n\nAs a journalist, Dutt has taken a strong secularist line standing against fundamentalism and communalism. She has written on issues ranging from terrorism in Punjab, the November 1984 massacre of the Sikhs, the Babri Masjid demolition and the Gujarat carnage. Nirupama's poetry has been featured on the Poetry Web International.\n\nShe is convener of a women's study group called Hamshira.\nShe lives and writes in Chandigarh \n"}
{"id": "5178070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5178070", "title": "Olga Kirsch", "text": "Olga Kirsch\n\nOlga Kirsch (; 1924–1997) was a South African and Israeli poet.\n\nKirsch was born and brought up in Koppies in the Orange Free State, today a part of South Africa. Her father had emigrated there from Lithuania and, though a Yiddish speaker, brought his daughter up to speak English, the mother tongue of her mother Eva, of British origin. She was the third in a family of five to three girls and two boys.\n\nHer primary and secondary education were mostly in Afrikaans, at the school in Koppies, albeit she obtained her high school degree at the Eunice High School in Bloemfontein. Later, her family moved to Johannesburg, where she attended the University of Witwatersrand to study medicine; but after one year of studies, she decided to study Literature (Afrikaans and Dutch Literature and History). One of her teachers was the Afrikaans-language novelist C. M. van den Heever.\n\nKirsch wrote mostly in Afrikaans rather than English, publishing eight books of poetry in that language, as well as a volume of selected poems (she was only the second female Afrikaans poet to be published).\n\nIn 1948, at the age of 24, she emigrated to Israel and settled in Rehovot. She only returned to South Africa on three occasions: in 1975, 1979 and 1981. Her change of country influenced her writing and the language she used in her daily life, from Afrikaans to English and then to Hebrew. After her arrival to Israel, she taught English for a living, resumed studies and graduated in English Literature at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. In 1949, she married the British-born Israeli mathematician Joseph Gillis, professor at the Weizmann Institute of Science, with whom she had two daughters, Ada and Michal, born in 1950 and 1953, respectively.\n\nKirsch is the second female writer in Afrikaans to be published, after Elisabeth Eybers, whose first books were published a few years earlier than Kirsch, between 1936 and 1939.\n\nHer poetry was marked by metre and often by rhyme. In her first two books of poetry, Kirsch reflects her rejection of apartheid and her aspiration to live in Israel. As she matured, her poetry addresses more personal themes in sonnets dedicated to her husband, the mathematician Joseph Gillis. Other poems evoke the mourning of her mother and her granddaughter, who died at the age of 9 due to an incurable illness. An accomplished linguist, she translated her poetry from Afrikaans into English and Hebrew. When unable to write, she would draw from nature, carve in wood, and embroider. Her sensitivity to nature affected her work in these media as well.\n\nThe first of her seven books published in Afrikaans, \"Die soeklig\" (the projector) was written while she was still studying in South Africa and the second, \"Mure van die hart\" (Walls of the heart), in 1948, was written on the year of her departure for Israel. With the exception of a few poems in English in the Jewish Frontier, she did not publish anything after leaving South Africa.\n\nOnly about a quarter of a century later, in 1972, her third book was published, titled \"Negentien gedigte\", (Nineteen poems), which Daniel Hugo refers as her \"second beginning\". In 1990, she published her first book of poetry in English. She continued to write in English, and was actively involved with the Israel Association of Writers in English. Though well known as a poet in South Africa, she failed to achieve the same degree of fame in Israel or the English-speaking world.\n\nIn the same way as Elisabeth Eybers, well before Breyten Breytenbach or Sheila Cussons, her life was marked by the \"exile\" and the difficulty of writing in Afrikaans away from South Africa. She remained a close friend of Elisabeth Eybers, and they visited each other in the Netherlands and Israel.\n\nShe was married to Joseph Gillis and had two daughters. She died on June 5, 1997, due to a brain tumor. Her legacy and career remains a source of interest in South Africa and abroad. Recently, her poetry has become the subject of a PhD thesis at the University of South Africa Egonne Roth, another South African based in Israel, is preparing a biography of Olga Kirsch.\n\nYear links are to \"[year] in poetry\" articles:\n\n"}
{"id": "9366487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9366487", "title": "Olof Möller", "text": "Olof Möller\n\nOlof Möller (July 3, 1923, Riga – June 8, 1985, Solna) was a Swedish science fiction author. He was very productive, though most of what he wrote can be classified as pulp, and is considered the most productive science fiction writer in Sweden. For instance, he published 29 pocket books in the Jaktrymdskepp X12 (\"Fighter Starship X12\") series between 1974 and 1980.\n\nHe was born in Riga in Latvia, the son of medical practitioner and scientist Maximilian Möller and the German-born author Camilla Möller. The family fled to Sweden in 1939. He graduated in 1941 from the Stockholm Institute of Commerce, and obtained a number of varied employments and own enterprises in his civil career. From 1976 to 1985 he was responsible for educational literature at the Military Academy in Stockholm.\n\n"}
{"id": "22261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22261", "title": "Ontology", "text": "Ontology\n\nOntology is the philosophical study of being. More broadly, it studies concepts that directly relate to being, in particular becoming, existence, reality, as well as the basic categories of being and their relations. Traditionally listed as a part of the major branch of philosophy known as metaphysics, ontology often deals with questions concerning what entities exist or may be said to exist and how such entities may be grouped, related within a hierarchy, and subdivided according to similarities and differences.\n\nThe compound word \"ontology\" (\"study of being\") combines \"onto-\" (Gr. ὄν, \"on\", gen. ὄντος, \"ontos\", \"being; that which is\") and \"-logia\" (Gr. -λογία, \"logical discourse\"). See classical compounds for this type of word formation.\n\nWhile the etymology is Greek, the oldest extant record of the word itself, the New Latin form \"ontologia\", appeared in 1606 in the work \"Ogdoas Scholastica\" by Jacob Lorhard (\"Lorhardus\") and in 1613 in the \"Lexicon philosophicum\" by Rudolf Göckel (\"Goclenius\").\n\nThe first occurrence in English of \"ontology\" as recorded by the \"OED\" (\"Oxford English Dictionary\", online edition, 2008) came in a work by Gideon Harvey (1636/7–1702): \"Archelogia philosophica nova; or, New principles of Philosophy. Containing Philosophy in general, Metaphysicks or Ontology, Dynamilogy or a Discourse of Power, Religio Philosophi or Natural Theology, Physicks or Natural philosophy\", London, Thomson, 1663. The word was first used in its Latin form by philosophers based on the Latin roots, which themselves are based on the Greek.\n\nLeibniz is the only one of the great philosophers of the 17th century to have used the term \"ontology\".\n\nSome philosophers, notably in the traditions of the Platonic school, contend that all nouns (including abstract nouns) refer to existent entities. Other philosophers contend that nouns do not always name entities, but that some provide a kind of shorthand for reference to a collection either of objects or of events. In this latter view, \"mind\", instead of referring to an entity, refers to a collection of \"mental events\" experienced by a \"person\"; \"society\" refers to a collection of \"persons\" with some shared characteristics, and \"geometry\" refers to a collection of specific kinds of intellectual activities. Between these poles of realism and nominalism stand a variety of other positions.\n\nPrincipal questions of ontology include:\n\nVarious philosophers have provided different answers to these questions. One common approach involves dividing the extant subjects and predicates into groups called categories. Such lists of categories differ widely from one another, and it is through the co-ordination of different categorical schemes that ontology relates to such fields as library science and artificial intelligence. Such an understanding of ontological categories, however, is merely taxonomic, classificatory. Aristotle's categories are the ways in which a being may be addressed simply as a being, such as:\n\nFurther examples of ontological questions include:\n\nEssential ontological dichotomies include:\n\n\nPhilosophers can classify ontologies in various ways, using criteria such as the degree of abstraction and field of application:\n\n\nOntology is an aspect of the Samkhya school of philosophy from the first millennium BCE. The concept of Guna which describes the three properties (sattva, rajas and tamas) present in differing proportions in all existing things, is a notable concept of this school.\n\nParmenides was among the first in the Greek tradition to propose an ontological characterization of the fundamental nature of existence. In his prologue or proem he describes two views of existence; initially that nothing comes from nothing, and therefore existence is eternal. Consequently, our opinions about truth must often be false and deceitful. Most of western philosophy — including the fundamental concepts of falsifiability — have emerged from this view. This posits that existence is what may be conceived of by thought, created, or possessed. Hence, there may be neither void nor vacuum; and true reality neither may come into being nor vanish from existence. Rather, the entirety of creation is eternal, uniform, and immutable, though not infinite (he characterized its shape as that of a perfect sphere). Parmenides thus posits that change, as perceived in everyday experience, is illusory. Everything that may be apprehended is but one part of a single entity. This idea somewhat anticipates the modern concept of an ultimate grand unification theory that finally describes all of existence in terms of one inter-related sub-atomic reality which applies to everything.\n\nThe opposite of eleatic monism is the pluralistic conception of Being. In the 5th century BC, Anaxagoras and Leucippus replaced the reality of Being (unique and unchanging) with that of Becoming and therefore by a more fundamental and elementary ontic plurality. This thesis originated in the Hellenic world, stated in two different ways by Anaxagoras and by Leucippus. The first theory dealt with \"seeds\" (which Aristotle referred to as \"homeomeries\") of the various substances. The second was the atomistic theory, which dealt with reality as based on the vacuum, the atoms and their intrinsic movement in it.\n\nThe materialist atomism proposed by Leucippus was indeterminist, but then developed by Democritus in a deterministic way. It was later (4th century BC) that the original atomism was taken again as indeterministic by Epicurus. He confirmed the reality as composed of an infinity of indivisible, unchangeable corpuscles or atoms (\"atomon\", lit. 'uncuttable'), but he gives weight to characterize atoms while for Leucippus they are characterized by a \"figure\", an \"order\" and a \"position\" in the cosmos. They are, besides, creating the whole with the intrinsic movement in the \"vacuum\", producing the diverse flux of being. Their movement is influenced by the \"parenklisis\" (Lucretius names it clinamen) and that is determined by the chance. These ideas foreshadowed our understanding of traditional physics until the nature of atoms was discovered in the 20th century.\n\nPlato developed this distinction between true reality and illusion, in arguing that what is real are eternal and unchanging Forms or Ideas (a precursor to universals), of which things experienced in sensation are at best merely copies, and real only in so far as they copy ('partake of') such Forms. In general, Plato presumes that all nouns (e.g., 'Beauty') refer to real entities, whether sensible bodies or insensible Forms. Hence, in \"The Sophist\" Plato argues that Being is a Form in which all existent things participate and which they have in common (though it is unclear whether 'Being' is intended in the sense of existence, copula, or identity); and argues, against Parmenides, that Forms must exist not only of Being, but also of Negation and of non-Being (or Difference).\n\nIn his \"Categories\", Aristotle identifies ten possible kinds of things that may be the subject or the predicate of a proposition. For Aristotle there are four different ontological dimensions:\n\nAccording to Avicenna, and in an interpretation of Greek Aristotelian and Platonist ontological doctrines in medieval metaphysics, being is either necessary, contingent \"qua\" possible, or impossible. Necessary being is that which cannot but be, since its non-being entails a contradiction. Contingent \"qua\" possible being is neither necessary nor impossible for it to be or not to be. It is ontologically neutral, and is brought from potential existing into actual existence by way of a cause that is external to its essence. Its being is borrowed unlike the necessary existent, which is self-subsisting and is impossible for it not to be. As for the impossible, it necessarily does not exist, and the affirmation of its being is a contradiction.\n\nThe concept of 'ontological formations' refers to formations of social relations understood as dominant ways of living. Temporal, spatial, corporeal, epistemological and performative relations are taken to be central to understanding a dominant formation. That is, a particular ontological formation is based on how ontological categories of time, space, embodiment, knowing and performing are lived—objectively and subjectively. Different ontological formations include the customary (including the tribal), the traditional, the modern and the postmodern. The concept was first introduced by Paul James' \"Globalism, Nationalism, Tribalism\" together with a series of writers including Damian Grenfell and Manfred Steger.\n\nIn the engaged theory approach, ontological formations are seen as layered and intersecting rather than singular formations. They are 'formations of being'. This approach avoids the usual problems of a Great Divide being posited between the modern and the pre-modern. From a philosophical distinction concerning different formations of being, the concept then provides a way of translating into practical understandings concerning how humans might design cities and communities that live creatively across different ontological formations, for example cities that are not completely dominated by modern valences of spatial configuration. Here the work of Tony Fry is important.\n\nRené Descartes, with \"je pense donc je suis\" or \"cogito ergo sum\" or \"I think, therefore I am\", argued that \"the self\" is something that we can know exists with epistemological certainty. Descartes argued further that this knowledge could lead to a proof of the certainty of the existence of God, using the ontological argument that had been formulated first by Anselm of Canterbury.\n\nCertainty about the existence of \"the self\" and \"the other\", however, came under increasing criticism in the 20th century. Sociological theorists, most notably George Herbert Mead and Erving Goffman, saw the Cartesian Other as a \"Generalized Other\", the imaginary audience that individuals use when thinking about the self. According to Mead, \"we do not assume there is a self to begin with. Self is not presupposed as a stuff out of which the world arises. Rather, the self arises in the world\".\nThe Cartesian Other was also used by Sigmund Freud, who saw the superego as an abstract regulatory force, and Émile Durkheim who viewed this as a psychologically manifested entity which represented God in society at large.\n\nSchools of subjectivism, objectivism and relativism existed at various times in the 20th century, and the postmodernists and body philosophers tried to reframe all these questions in terms of bodies taking some specific action in an environment. This relied to a great degree on insights derived from scientific research into animals taking instinctive action in natural and artificial settings—as studied by biology, ecology, and cognitive science.\n\nThe processes by which bodies related to environments became of great concern, and the idea of being itself became difficult to really define. What did people mean when they said \"A is B\", \"A must be B\", \"A was B\"...? Some linguists advocated dropping the verb \"to be\" from the English language, leaving \"E Prime\", supposedly less prone to bad abstractions. Others, mostly philosophers, tried to dig into the word and its usage. Martin Heidegger distinguished \"human being\" as \"existence\" from the being of things in the world. Heidegger proposes that our way of being human and the way the world is for us are cast historically through a fundamental ontological questioning. These fundamental ontological categories provide the basis for communication in an age: a horizon of unspoken and seemingly unquestionable background meanings, such as human beings understood unquestioningly as subjects and other entities understood unquestioningly as objects. Because these basic ontological meanings both generate and are regenerated in everyday interactions, the locus of our way of being in a historical epoch is the communicative event of language in use. For Heidegger, however, communication in the \"first\" place is not among human beings, but language itself shapes up in response to questioning (the inexhaustible meaning of) being. Even the focus of traditional ontology on the 'whatness' or \"quidditas\" of beings in their substantial, standing presence can be shifted to pose the question of the 'whoness' of human being itself.\n\nSome philosophers suggest that the question of \"What is?\" is (at least in part) an issue of \"usage\" rather than a question about facts. This perspective is conveyed by an analogy made by Donald Davidson: Suppose a person refers to a 'cup' as a 'chair' and makes some comments pertinent to a cup, but uses the word 'chair' consistently throughout instead of 'cup'. One might readily catch on that this person simply calls a 'cup' a 'chair' and the oddity is explained. Analogously, if we find people asserting 'there are' such-and-such, and we do not ourselves think that 'such-and-such' exist, we might conclude that these people are not nuts (Davidson calls this assumption 'charity'), they simply use 'there are' differently than we do. The question of \"What is?\" is at least partially a topic in the philosophy of language, and is not entirely about ontology itself. This viewpoint has been expressed by Eli Hirsch.\n\nHirsch interprets Hilary Putnam as asserting that different concepts of \"the existence of something\" can be correct. This position does not contradict the view that some things do exist, but points out that different 'languages' will have different rules about assigning this property. How to determine the 'fitness' of a 'language' to the world then becomes a subject for investigation.\n\nCommon to all Indo-European copula languages is the double use of the verb \"to be\" in both stating that entity X exists (\"X is.\") as well as stating that X has a property (\"X is P\"). It is sometimes argued that a third use is also distinct, stating that X is a member of a class (\"X is a C\"). In other language families these roles may have completely different verbs and are less likely to be confused with one another. For example they might say something like \"the car has redness\" rather than \"the car is red\". Hence any discussion of \"being\" in Indo-European language philosophy may need to make distinctions between these senses.\n\nIn human geography there are two types of ontology: small \"o\" which accounts for the practical orientation, describing functions of being a part of the group, thought to oversimplify and ignore key activities. The other \"o\", or big \"O\", systematically, logically, and rationally describes the essential characteristics and universal traits. This concept relates closely to Plato's view that the human mind can only perceive a bigger world if they continue to live within the confines of their \"caves\". However, in spite of the differences, ontology relies on the symbolic agreements among members. That said, ontology is crucial for the axiomatic language frameworks.\n\nAccording to A.N. Whitehead, for ontology, it is useful to distinguish the terms 'reality' and 'actuality'. In this view, an 'actual entity' has a philosophical status of fundamental ontological priority, while a 'real entity' is one which may be actual, or may derive its reality from its logical relation to some actual entity or entities. For example, an occasion in the life of Socrates is an actual entity. But Socrates' being a man does not make 'man' an actual entity, because it refers indeterminately to many actual entities, such as several occasions in the life of Socrates, and also to several occasions in the lives of Alcibiades, and of others. But the notion of man is real; it derives its reality from its reference to those many actual occasions, each of which is an actual entity. An actual occasion is a concrete entity, while terms such as 'man' are abstractions from many concrete relevant entities.\n\nAccording to Whitehead, an actual entity must earn its philosophical status of fundamental ontological priority by satisfying several philosophical criteria, as follows.\n\nWhitehead proposed that his notion of an occasion of experience satisfies the criteria for its status as the philosophically preferred definition of an actual entity. From a purely logical point of view, each occasion of experience has in full measure the characters of both objective and subjective reality. Subjectivity and objectivity refer to different aspects of an occasion of experience, and in no way do they exclude each other.\n\nExamples of other philosophical proposals or candidates as actual entities, in this view, are Aristotle's 'substances', Leibniz' monads, and Descartes \" ′res verae' \", and the more modern 'states of affairs'. Aristotle's substances, such as Socrates, have behind them as more fundamental the 'primary substances', and in this sense do not satisfy Whitehead's criteria. Whitehead is not happy with Leibniz' monads as actual entities because they are \"windowless\" and do not cause each other. 'States of affairs' are often not closely defined, often without specific mention of extension in physical Minkowski space; they are therefore not necessarily processes of becoming, but may be as their name suggests, simply static states in some sense. States of affairs are contingent on particulars, and therefore have something behind them. One summary of the Whiteheadian actual entity is that it is a process of becoming. Another summary, referring to its causal linkage to other actual entities, is that it is \"all window\", in contrast with Leibniz' windowless monads.\n\nThis view allows philosophical entities other than actual entities to really exist, but not as fundamentally and primarily factual or causally efficacious; they have existence as abstractions, with reality only derived from their reference to actual entities. A Whiteheadian actual entity has a unique and completely definite place and time. Whiteheadian abstractions are not so tightly defined in time and place, and in the extreme, some are timeless and placeless, or 'eternal' entities. All abstractions have logical or conceptual rather than efficacious existence; their lack of definite time does not make them unreal if they refer to actual entities. Whitehead calls this 'the ontological principle'.\n\nThere is an established and long philosophical history of the concept of atoms as microscopic physical objects.They are far too small to be visible to the naked eye. It was as recent as the nineteenth century that precise estimates of the sizes of putative physical atoms began to become plausible. Almost direct empirical observation of atomic effects was due to the theoretical investigation of Brownian motion by Albert Einstein in the very early twentieth century. But even then, the real existence of atoms was debated by some. Such debate might be labeled 'microcosmic ontology'. Here the word 'microcosm' is used to indicate a physical world of small entities, such as for example atoms.\n\nSubatomic particles are usually considered to be much smaller than atoms. Their real or actual existence may be very difficult to demonstrate empirically. A distinction is sometimes drawn between actual and virtual subatomic particles. Reasonably, one may ask, in what sense, if any, do virtual particles exist as physical entities? For atomic and subatomic particles, difficult questions arise, such as do they possess a precise position, or a precise momentum? A question that continues to be controversial is 'to what kind of physical thing, if any, does the quantum mechanical wave function refer?'.\n\nThe first ontological argument in the Western Christian tradition was proposed by Anselm of Canterbury in his 1078 work \"Proslogion\". Anselm defined God as \"that than which nothing greater can be thought\", and argued that this being must exist in the mind, even in the mind of the person who denies the existence of God. He suggested that, if the greatest possible being exists in the mind, it must also exist in reality. If it only exists in the mind, then an even greater being must be possible—one which exists both in the mind and in reality. Therefore, this greatest possible being must exist in reality. Seventeenth century French philosopher René Descartes deployed a similar argument. Descartes published several variations of his argument, each of which centred on the idea that God's existence is immediately inferable from a \"clear and distinct\" idea of a supremely perfect being. In the early eighteenth century, Gottfried Leibniz augmented Descartes' ideas in an attempt to prove that a \"supremely perfect\" being is a coherent concept. A more recent ontological argument came from Kurt Gödel, who proposed a formal argument for God's existence. Norman Malcolm revived the ontological argument in 1960 when he located a second, stronger ontological argument in Anselm's work; Alvin Plantinga challenged this argument and proposed an alternative, based on modal logic. Attempts have also been made to validate Anselm's proof using an automated theorem prover. Other arguments have been categorised as ontological, including those made by Islamic philosophers Mulla Sadra and Allama Tabatabai.\n\nJaakko Hintikka puts the view that a useful explication of the notion of existence is in the words \"one can find\", implicitly in some world or universe of discourse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13793937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13793937", "title": "Paleohispanic scripts", "text": "Paleohispanic scripts\n\nThe Paleohispanic scripts are the writing systems created in the Iberian peninsula before the Latin alphabet became the dominant script. Most of them are unusual in that they are semi-syllabic rather than purely alphabetic, despite having supposedly developed, in part, from the Phoenician alphabet. \n\nPaleohispanic scripts are known to have been used from the 5th century BCE — possibly from the 7th century, in the opinion of some researchers — until the end of the 1st century BCE or the beginning of the 1st century CE, and were the main scripts used to write the Paleohispanic languages. Some researchers conclude that their origin may lie solely with the Phoenician alphabet, while others believe the Greek alphabet may have had also a role.\n\nThe Paleoiberian scripts are classified into three major groups: southern, northern, and Greco-Iberian, with differences both in the shapes of the glyphs and in their values. \n\nInscriptions in the southern scripts have been found mainly in the southern half of the Iberian Peninsula. They represent only 5% of the inscriptions found, and mostly read from right to left (like the Phoenician alphabet). They are:\n\n\nInscriptions in the northern scripts have been found mainly in the NE of the Iberian Peninsula. They represent 95% of the inscriptions found, and mostly read from left to right (like the Greek alphabet). They are:\n\n\nThe Greco-Iberian alphabet was a direct adaptation of the Ionic variety of the Greek alphabet, and only found in a small region on the Mediterranean coast in the modern provinces of Alicante and Murcia.\n\nExcepting the Greco-Iberian alphabet, and to a lesser extent the Tartessian (southwestern) script, Paleoiberian scripts shared a distinctive typology: They behaved as a syllabary for the plosives and as an alphabet for the rest of consonants. This unique writing system has been called a \"semi-syllabary\".\n\nIn the syllabic portions of the scripts, each plosive sign stood for a different combination of consonant and vowel, so that the written form of \"ga\" displayed no resemblance to \"ge\", and \"bi\" looked quite different from \"bo\". In addition, the original format did not distinguish voiced from unvoiced plosives, so that \"ga\" stood for both /ga/ and /ka/, and \"da\" stood for both /da/ and /ta/. \n\nOn the other hand, the continuants (fricative sounds like /s/ and sonorants like /l/, /m/, trills, and vowels) were written with simple alphabetic letters, as in Phoenician and Greek. \n\nOver the past few decades, many researchers have come to believe that one variant of the northeastern Iberian script, the older one according to the archaeological contexts, distinguished voicing in the plosives by adding a stroke to the glyphs for the alveolar (/d/~/t/) and velar (/g/~/k/) syllables, creating distinct glyphs for unvoiced /t/ and /k/, and restricting the original glyphs to voiced /d/ and /g/. (This is the so-called dual signary model: see northeastern Iberian script.) If correct, this innovation would parallel the creation of the Latin letter G by the addition of a stroke to C, which had previously stood for both /k/ and /g/.\n\nThe Tartessian script is typologically intermediate between a pure alphabet and the Paleohispanic semi-syllabaries. Although the letter used to write a plosive was determined by the following vowel, as in a semi-syllabary, the following vowel was also written, as in an alphabet. (See Tartessian language for an example.) This redundant typology re-emerged in a few late (2nd and 1st century BCE) texts of northeastern Iberian and Celtiberian scripts, where vowels were once again written after plosives. Some scholars treat Tartessian as a redundant semi-syllabary, with essentially syllabic glyphs followed by the letter for the corresponding vowel; others treat it as a redundant alphabet, with the choice of an essentially consonantal character decided by the following vowel.\n\nThis is analogous to the Old Persian cuneiform script, where vowels were most often written overtly but where consonants/syllables were decided by the vowel about half the time, and, to a very limited extent, to the Etruscan alphabet, where most syllables based the consonant /k/ shared neither consonant nor vowel letter: Only the combinations CE, CI, KA, and QU were permitted. (This Etruscan convention is preserved in the English, not only in \"qu\" for \"queen,\" but also the letter names \"cee, kay, cue/qu\".)\n\nThe paleoiberian semi-syllabaries clearly derive ultimately from an alphabet or alphabets circulating in the Mediterranean, but it is not known whether that was the Phoenician alphabet alone, or if archaic varieties of the Greek alphabet also played a role. \n\nThe only known full Paleoiberian signary, on the undated Espanca tablet (not completely readable, but clearly related to the southwestern and southeastern scripts), follows the Phoenician/Greek order for the first 13 of its 27 letters: Α Β Γ Δ Ι Κ Λ Μ Ν Ξ Π? Τ. The fact that southern paleohispanic /e/ appears to derive from the Phoenician letter ‘ayin, which gave rise to Greek Ο, while southern iberian /o/ derives from another letter or was perhaps invented, suggests that the development of vowels in paleoiberian semi-syllabaries was independent of the Greek innovation. However, the order of what appears to be /u/ directly after Τ, rather than at the place of , has suggested to some researchers a Greek influence. (In addition, the letter for /e/ in northeast Iberian resembles Greek Ε rather than the southeast Iberian letter.) The two sibilants, S and S', are attested, but there is one sign too few to account for a full 15-sign syllabary and all four of the letters M, M', R, and R' (not all of which can be positively identified with letters from the tablet), suggesting that one of ems or ars shown in the charts to the right is only a graphic variant. \n\nThe obvious question about the origin and evolution of these scripts is how a purely alphabetic script was changed into, or perhaps unconsciously reinterpreted as, a partial syllabary. It may be instructive to consider an unrelated development in the evolution of the Etruscan alphabet from Greek: Greek had three letters, Γ, Κ, and , whose sounds were not distinguished in Etruscan. Nonetheless, all three were borrowed, becoming the letters C, K, and Q. All were pronounced /k/, but they were restricted to appear before different vowels — CE, CI, KA, and QU, respectively, — so that the consonants carried almost as much weight in distinguishing these syllables as the vowels did. (This may have been an attempt to overtly indicate the vowel-dependent allophony of Etruscan /k/ with the extra Greek letters that were available.) When the Etruscan alphabet was later adapted to Latin, the letter C stood for both /k/ and /g/, as Etruscan had had no /g/ sound to maintain the original sound value of Greek Г. (Later a stroke was added to C, creating the new Latin letter G.). \n\nSomething similar may have happened during the evolution of the Paleoiberian scripts. If writing passed from the Phoenicians through the Tartessians, and the Tartessian language did not have a /g/ or a /d/, that would explain the absence of a distinction between /g/ and /k/, /d/ and /t/ in the southeastern Iberian and later northeast Iberian scripts, despite it being clear that these were distinct sounds in the Iberian language, as is clearly attested in the Greco-Iberian alphabet and later use of the Latin alphabet. In Tartessian script, vowels were always written after the plosives, but they were redundant — or at nearly so — and thus it seems they were dropped when the script passed to the Iberians. \n\nAmong the velar consonants, \"ka/ga\" of southeastern Iberian and the southwestern script derives from Phoenician/Greek Γ, \"ke/ge\" from Κ, and \"ki/gi\" from , while \"ko/go\" (perhaps coincidentally) resembles Greek Χ (pronounced ). Phoenician/Greek labial letter Β was the source of southwestern \"be\", southeastern \"ba\"; the use of Π is uncertain but may have been the source of \"bi.\" (If Greek was used as a secondary source, Greek Φ () would also have been available.) For the alveolars, Δ was the source of \"tu/du,\" Τ of \"ta/da,\" and Θ of \"ti/di.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "746912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=746912", "title": "Part-of-speech tagging", "text": "Part-of-speech tagging\n\nIn corpus linguistics, part-of-speech tagging (POS tagging or PoS tagging or POST), also called grammatical tagging or word-category disambiguation, is the process of marking up a word in a text (corpus) as corresponding to a particular part of speech, based on both its definition and its context—i.e., its relationship with adjacent and related words in a phrase, sentence, or paragraph.\nA simplified form of this is commonly taught to school-age children, in the identification of words as nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, etc.\n\nOnce performed by hand, POS tagging is now done in the context of computational linguistics, using algorithms which associate discrete terms, as well as hidden parts of speech, in accordance with a set of descriptive tags. POS-tagging algorithms fall into two distinctive groups: rule-based and stochastic. E. Brill's tagger, one of the first and most widely used English POS-taggers, employs rule-based algorithms.\n\nPart-of-speech tagging is harder than just having a list of words and their parts of speech, because some words can represent more than one part of speech at different times, and because some parts of speech are complex or unspoken. This is not rare—in natural languages (as opposed to many artificial languages), a large percentage of word-forms are ambiguous. For example, even \"dogs\", which is usually thought of as just a plural noun, can also be a verb:\nCorrect grammatical tagging will reflect that \"dogs\" is here used as a verb, not as the more common plural noun. Grammatical context is one way to determine this; semantic analysis can also be used to infer that \"sailor\" and \"hatch\" implicate \"dogs\" as 1) in the nautical context and 2) an action applied to the object \"hatch\" (in this context, \"dogs\" is a nautical term meaning \"fastens (a watertight door) securely\").\n\nSchools commonly teach that there are 9 parts of speech in English: noun, verb, article, adjective, preposition, pronoun, adverb, conjunction, and interjection. However, there are clearly many more categories and sub-categories. For nouns, the plural, possessive, and singular forms can be distinguished. In many languages words are also marked for their \"case\" (role as subject, object, etc.), grammatical gender, and so on; while verbs are marked for tense, aspect, and other things. Linguists distinguish parts of speech to various fine degrees, reflecting a chosen \"tagging system\".\n\nIn part-of-speech tagging by computer, it is typical to distinguish from 50 to 150 separate parts of speech for English. For example, NN for singular common nouns, NNS for plural common nouns, NP for singular proper nouns (see the POS tags used in the Brown Corpus). Work on stochastic methods for tagging Koine Greek (DeRose 1990) has used over 1,000 parts of speech, and found that about as many words were ambiguous there as in English. A morphosyntactic descriptor in the case of morphologically rich languages is commonly expressed using very short mnemonics, such as \"'Ncmsan\" for Category=Noun, Type = common, Gender = masculine, Number = singular, Case = accusative, Animate = no.\n\nResearch on part-of-speech tagging has been closely tied to corpus linguistics. The first major corpus of English for computer analysis was the Brown Corpus developed at Brown University by Henry Kučera and W. Nelson Francis, in the mid-1960s. It consists of about 1,000,000 words of running English prose text, made up of 500 samples from randomly chosen publications. Each sample is 2,000 or more words (ending at the first sentence-end after 2,000 words, so that the corpus contains only complete sentences).\n\nThe Brown Corpus was painstakingly \"tagged\" with part-of-speech markers over many years. A first approximation was done with a program by Greene and Rubin, which consisted of a huge handmade list of what categories could co-occur at all. For example, article then noun can occur, but article verb (arguably) cannot. The program got about 70% correct. Its results were repeatedly reviewed and corrected by hand, and later users sent in errata, so that by the late 70s the tagging was nearly perfect (allowing for some cases on which even human speakers might not agree).\n\nThis corpus has been used for innumerable studies of word-frequency and of part-of-speech, and inspired the development of similar \"tagged\" corpora in many other languages. Statistics derived by analyzing it formed the basis for most later part-of-speech tagging systems, such as CLAWS (linguistics) and VOLSUNGA. However, by this time (2005) it has been superseded by larger corpora such as the 100 million word British National Corpus.\n\nFor some time, part-of-speech tagging was considered an inseparable part of natural language processing, because there are certain cases where the correct part of speech cannot be decided without understanding the semantics or even the pragmatics of the context. This is extremely expensive, especially because analyzing the higher levels is much harder when multiple part-of-speech possibilities must be considered for each word.\n\nIn the mid 1980s, researchers in Europe began to use hidden Markov models (HMMs) to disambiguate parts of speech, when working to tag the Lancaster-Oslo-Bergen Corpus of British English. HMMs involve counting cases (such as from the Brown Corpus), and making a table of the probabilities of certain sequences. For example, once you've seen an article such as 'the', perhaps the next word is a noun 40% of the time, an adjective 40%, and a number 20%. Knowing this, a program can decide that \"can\" in \"the can\" is far more likely to be a noun than a verb or a modal. The same method can of course be used to benefit from knowledge about following words.\n\nMore advanced (\"higher order\") HMMs learn the probabilities not only of pairs, but triples or even larger sequences. So, for example, if you've just seen a noun followed by a verb, the next item may be very likely a preposition, article, or noun, but much less likely another verb.\n\nWhen several ambiguous words occur together, the possibilities multiply. However, it is easy to enumerate every combination and to assign a relative probability to each one, by multiplying together the probabilities of each choice in turn. The combination with highest probability is then chosen. The European group developed CLAWS, a tagging program that did exactly this, and achieved accuracy in the 93–95% range.\n\nIt is worth remembering, as Eugene Charniak points out in \"Statistical techniques for natural language parsing\" (1997), that merely assigning the most common tag to each known word and the tag \"proper noun\" to all unknowns will approach 90% accuracy because many words are unambiguous, and many others only rarely represent their less-common parts of speech.\n\nCLAWS pioneered the field of HMM-based part of speech tagging, but was quite expensive since it enumerated all possibilities. It sometimes had to resort to backup methods when there were simply too many options (the Brown Corpus contains a case with 17 ambiguous words in a row, and there are words such as \"still\" that can represent as many as 7 distinct parts of speech (DeRose 1990, p. 82)).\n\nHMMs underlie the functioning of stochastic taggers and are used in various algorithms one of the most widely used being the bi-directional inference algorithm.\n\nIn 1987, Steven DeRose and Ken Church independently developed dynamic programming algorithms to solve the same problem in vastly less time. Their methods were similar to the Viterbi algorithm known for some time in other fields. DeRose used a table of pairs, while Church used a table of triples and a method of estimating the values for triples that were rare or nonexistent in the Brown Corpus (actual measurement of triple probabilities would require a much larger corpus). Both methods achieved accuracy over 95%. DeRose's 1990 dissertation at Brown University included analyses of the specific error types, probabilities, and other related data, and replicated his work for Greek, where it proved similarly effective.\n\nThese findings were surprisingly disruptive to the field of natural language processing. The accuracy reported was higher than the typical accuracy of very sophisticated algorithms that integrated part of speech choice with many higher levels of linguistic analysis: syntax, morphology, semantics, and so on. CLAWS, DeRose's and Church's methods did fail for some of the known cases where semantics is required, but those proved negligibly rare. This convinced many in the field that part-of-speech tagging could usefully be separated out from the other levels of processing; this in turn simplified the theory and practice of computerized language analysis, and encouraged researchers to find ways to separate out other pieces as well. Markov Models are now the standard method for part-of-speech assignment.\n\nThe methods already discussed involve working from a pre-existing corpus to learn tag probabilities. It is, however, also possible to bootstrap using \"unsupervised\" tagging. Unsupervised tagging techniques use an untagged corpus for their training data and produce the tagset by induction. That is, they observe patterns in word use, and derive part-of-speech categories themselves. For example, statistics readily reveal that \"the\", \"a\", and \"an\" occur in similar contexts, while \"eat\" occurs in very different ones. With sufficient iteration, similarity classes of words emerge that are remarkably similar to those human linguists would expect; and the differences themselves sometimes suggest valuable new insights.\n\nThese two categories can be further subdivided into rule-based, stochastic, and neural approaches.\n\nSome current major algorithms for part-of-speech tagging include the Viterbi algorithm, Brill tagger, Constraint Grammar, and the Baum-Welch algorithm (also known as the forward-backward algorithm). Hidden Markov model and visible Markov model taggers can both be implemented using the Viterbi algorithm. The rule-based Brill tagger is unusual in that it learns a set of rule patterns, and then applies those patterns rather than optimizing a statistical quantity. Unlike the Brill tagger where the rules are ordered sequentially, the POS and morphological tagging toolkit RDRPOSTagger stores rules in the form of a ripple-down rules tree.\n\nMany machine learning methods have also been applied to the problem of POS tagging. Methods such as SVM, maximum entropy classifier, perceptron, and nearest-neighbor have all been tried, and most can achieve accuracy above 95%.\n\nA direct comparison of several methods is reported (with references) at the ACL Wiki. This comparison uses the Penn tag set on some of the Penn Treebank data, so the results are directly comparable.\n\nHowever, many significant taggers are not included (perhaps because of the labor involved in reconfiguring them for this particular dataset). Thus, it should not be assumed that the results reported there are the best that can be achieved with a given approach; nor even the best that \"have\" been achieved with a given approach.\n\nA more recent development is using the structure regularization method for part-of-speech tagging, achieving 97.36% on the standard benchmark dataset.\n\nWhile there is broad agreement about basic categories, a number of edge cases make it difficult to settle on a single \"correct\" set of tags, even in a particular language such as (say) English. For example, it is hard to say whether \"fire\" is an adjective or a noun in\n\nA second important example is the use/mention distinction, as in the following example, where \"blue\" could be replaced by a word from any POS (the Brown Corpus tag set appends the suffix \"-NC\" in such cases):\n\nWords in a language other than that of the \"main\" text are commonly tagged as \"foreign\", usually in addition to a tag for the role the foreign word is actually playing in context.\n\nThere are also many cases where POS categories and \"words\" do not map one to one, for example:\n\nIn the last example, \"look\" and \"up\" arguably function as a single verbal unit, despite the possibility of other words coming between them. Some tag sets (such as Penn) break hyphenated words, contractions, and possessives into separate tokens, thus avoiding some but far from all such problems.\n\nMany tag sets treat words such as \"be\", \"have\", and \"do\" as categories in their own right (as in the Brown Corpus), while a few treat them all as simply verbs (for example, the LOB Corpus and the Penn Treebank). Because these particular words have more forms than other English verbs, and occur in quite different grammatical contexts, treating them merely as \"verbs\" means that a POS tagger has much less information to go on. For example, an HMM-based tagger would combine several rows and columns that would otherwise be not only distinct, but quite different. A more complex algorithm could also consider the particular word in each case; but with distinct tags, the HMM itself can often predict the correct finer-grained tag even for novel spelling variants, and thus provide better help to later processing.\n\nThe most popular \"tag set\" for POS tagging for American English is probably the Penn tag set, developed in the Penn Treebank project. It is largely similar to the earlier Brown Corpus and LOB Corpus tag sets, though much smaller. In Europe, tag sets from the Eagles Guidelines see wide use, and include versions for multiple languages.\n\nPOS tagging work has been done in a variety of languages, and the set of POS tags used varies greatly with language. Tags usually are designed to include overt morphological distinctions, although this leads to inconsistencies such as case-marking for pronouns but not nouns in English, and much larger cross-language differences. The tag sets for heavily inflected languages such as Greek and Latin can be very large; tagging \"words\" in agglutinative languages such as Inuit may be virtually impossible. At the other extreme, Petrov et al. have proposed a \"universal\" tag set, with 12 categories (for example, no subtypes of nouns, verbs, punctuation, etc.; no distinction of \"to\" as an infinitive marker vs. preposition (hardly a \"universal\" coincidence), etc.). Whether a very small set of very broad tags or a much larger set of more precise ones is preferable, depends on the purpose at hand. Automatic tagging is easier on smaller tag-sets.\n\nA different issue is that some cases are in fact ambiguous. Beatrice Santorini gives examples in \"Part-of-speech Tagging Guidelines for the Penn Treebank Project\", (3rd rev, June 1990 ), including the following (p. 32) case in which \"entertaining\" can be either an adjective or a verb, and there is no syntactic way to decide:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51523505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51523505", "title": "Pashto phonology", "text": "Pashto phonology\n\nAmongst the Iranian languages, the phonology of Pashto is of middle complexity, but its morphology is very complex.\n\n\nPashto syllable structure can be summarized as follows; parentheses enclose optional components:\n\nPashto syllable structure consists of an optional syllable onset, consisting of one or two consonants; an obligatory syllable nucleus, consisting of a vowel optionally preceded by and/or followed by a semivowel; and an optional syllable coda, consisting of one or two consonants. The following restrictions apply:\n\n\nPashto also has a liking for word-initial consonant clusters in all dialects; some hundred such clusters occurs. However consonant gemination is unknown to Pashto.\nMost dialects in Pashto have seven vowels and seven diphthongs.\n\nIn Waziri dialect the in Standard Pashto becomes in Northern Waziri and in Southern Waziri.\n\nIn Waziri dialect the stressed in Standard Pashto becomes as in the word meaning 'sickle' becomes and as in the word meaning 'flour' becomes . The in Standard Pashto may also become as in the word meaning 'shoulder' from or .\n\nIn the Apridi dialect the in Standard Pashto becomes as in becomes . The in Standard Pashto becomes or as in becomes or .\n\nFew short vowels occur in speech in borrowed words and in the Peshawar dialect.\nThe diphthongs varies according to dialect. The stressed diphthong changes to in the Mohmand dialect and in Wanetsi.\n\nThe diphthong used to indicate feminine noun gender changes to in Wanetsi and in Kâkaṛi.\n\nThe long diphthongs and becomes and , respectively, in most Northeastern dialects.\n\nPashto has phonemic variable stress, unique amongst Iranian languages.\n\nFor instance the pronouns are differently inflected:\nIn verbs to distinguish aspect:\nIn verbs to distinguish mood:\n"}
{"id": "21122105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21122105", "title": "Pro Juventute", "text": "Pro Juventute\n\nPro Juventute is a charitable foundation in Switzerland established in 1912. It is dedicated to supporting the rights and needs of Swiss children and youth.\n\nSince 1913, the Swiss post office has issued an annual charity stamp series to support the work of Pro Juventute.\n\nUntil the 1970s, the semi-official policy of institutionalizing Yenish parents and having their children adopted by more \"normal\" Swiss citizens was carried out by Pro Juventute on behalf of the Swiss government. The name of this program was \"Kinder der Landstrasse\" (\"children of the road\"). \n\n"}
{"id": "19633440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19633440", "title": "Request line", "text": "Request line\n\nA request line or contest line is a telephone line which allows listeners to a radio station (or sometimes a TV station) to call the radio studio or TV studio directly. In radio, this is usually to request a song, win a contest, be a part of a talk show, or to ask a question of the disk jockey, such as what the name and artist of a recent song was. Used occasionally in television, it is typically for telephone voting for an unscientific opinion poll in relation to news events, for a talk show, or sometimes to win a contest. \n\nAlthough only one telephone number is usually announced, major stations typically have line hunting, with the same number being directed to any available one of several lines within the hunt group. If there are no open lines, the calling party may receive a busy signal as with an ordinary telephone call, or sometimes the special information tones followed by a recorded announcement that \"all circuits are busy, please try your call again later\". In this case, the line often first gives that caller a ringback tone as if the call were being completed, misleading callers to think they may have actually gotten through the swarm of other calls that sometimes flood these lines.\n\nWithin the North American Numbering Plan, telephone companies typically use special numbers for these lines, with a reserved prefix corresponding to high-capacity multi-line numbers instead of to a physical telephone exchange. In Miami, for example, numbers are 305-550-\"xxxx\", while in metro Atlanta they are 404-741-\"xxxx\". The last four digits are usually chosen by the station to be their callsign or frequency, or their moniker if it is short (such as B937 (2937) for a fictional B-93.7 FM).\n\nWhen used on a radio or television program carried on a broadcast network, such a number is usually a toll-free telephone number, without a special number since it simply redirects to a local request line circuit. This allows anyone to call regardless of the location, even from a payphone. Some stations may have vertical service codes for use by mobile telephones. These are also common in the United States for TV stations to advertise for gathering news tips from the public, but are often specific to callers on a certain sponsoring mobile telephone company.\n\nCalls typically come into the studio on a multi-line telephone, which is equipped to connect callers to the audio console and onto the air via a telephone hybrid. However, in modern broadcasting, this is not always the case.\n\nCall screeners may take the calls initially in an adjacent room (or simply away from the microphone), in order to determine which ones would get onto the air, particularly in the case of a talk show. Most call-in shows have special software which the screener types the caller's information into, which in turn appears on the computer in front of the host. This is how he or she knows how to introduce the caller by name and often by location. This in turn alerts the caller, who has often been on hold for several minutes and may be listening to the radio or TV instead of the line, that he or she is now on the air. Such a notification is often also a part of broadcast law if the caller may not have called with the expectation of being on the air.\n\nA brief broadcast delay may be used to allow profanity or other inappropriate content (and possibly the caller) to be dropped, or voice tracking may be used to record calls to a computer, where the call can be digitally edited for time and content. This method is most common with contest winners or callers to \"all-request\" shows like \"Delilah\", and is done quickly for airplay just a few minutes later. \n"}
{"id": "11365136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11365136", "title": "Shirish Atre-Pai", "text": "Shirish Atre-Pai\n\nShirish Pai (Devanagari: शिरीष पै) (15 November 1929 – 2 September 2017) was a social worker and a writer from Maharashtra, India. She had written in Marathi and English, primarily the former.\n\nShirish is the elder daughter of Acharya Atre. She has a college degree in Law from Government College of Law, Mumbai.\n\nShe joined her father's newspaper, \"Maratha\", as a journalist. She was deeply influenced by the Soviet thinking and way of life, and toured the Soviet Union and other Eastern Block countries. Alongside her father, Shirish played a role in the Samyukta Maharashtra movement.\n\nShe has written several books; they include collections of her poems. She introduced the haiku form of poetry to Marathi literature in 1975. She has also translated Japanese haiku into Maranthi and English. Her literary work has received several national and state awards.\n\nIn a newspaper interview in June 2011 she revealed that she had started writing and composing poems from the time she was in secondary school and received great encouragement from her father in this regard.\n\nShirish was married to lawyer and journalist Vyankatesh Pai. They have two sons, Rajendra Pai and Vikramaditya Pai who are both lawyers. She resided, and died, in Mumbai.\n\nThe following web page lists Shirish Pai's books:\n"}
{"id": "30773276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30773276", "title": "Shlomo Dykman", "text": "Shlomo Dykman\n\nShlomo Dykman (; born 10 February 1917, died 1965) was a Polish-Israeli translator and classical scholar.\n\nDykman was born in 1917 in Warsaw, Poland. He attended school at the \"Hinuch\" Hebrew Gymnasium, and then studied the classics at the Institute of Jewish Studies at Warsaw University.\n\nHe began publishing translations and literary reviews in Poland in 1935, including translations from Hebrew into Polish. In 1939, he published a Polish translation of all of Bialik's poems.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of World War II and the division of Poland between Germany and the Soviet Union, he fled to Bukhara, where he taught Hebrew. In 1944, he was arrested by the Soviet authorities and accused of Zionist and Counter-revolutionary activities. He was initially sentenced to death, but the sentence was commuted to five to ten years hard labour, which he served in the coals mines in the Arctic region of the northern Urals. In 1957, he returned to Warsaw and, in 1960, he emigrated to Israel and settled in Jerusalem.\n\nDykman published many Hebrew translations of Greek literature and of the Roman and Latin classics. Among his translations were the tragedies of \"Aeschylus\" and \"Sophocles\", the poem \"Aeneid\" by Virgil and \"Metamorphoses\" by Ovid.\n\n\nHis son, Aminadav Dykman, is a translator and literary scholar.\n\n"}
{"id": "38591218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38591218", "title": "Situational code-switching", "text": "Situational code-switching\n\nSituational code-switching is the tendency in a speech community to use different languages or language varieties in different social situations, or to switch varieties in order to mark a change in situation. \n\nSituational and metaphorical code-switching were first described by John J. Gumperz and Jan-Petter Blom. Their paper, \"Social meaning in linguistic structures\", was the first to suggest this division. Gumperz and Dell Hymes describe the difference between the two in the introduction to the volume in which \"Social meaning in linguistic structures\" appeared. \n\nIn his book \"Beyond Culture\", anthropologist Edward T. Hall argues that face-to-face interaction within a given culture is governed by thousands of culturally and institutionally coded situational frames, each associated with a linguistically restricted way of speaking known as the Situational Dialect (SD). An SD facilitates concise communication through the reliance on high-context messages. Hall refutes the notion of a universally applicable basic form of a language, stating that \"the classroom is the only place where the classroom form of the language will be found\". \n\nHall describes situational frames as:\n\nHall gives an example of an SD:\n\nIn the decades since Blom & Gumperz's and Hall's work first appeared, significant advances have been made in the analysis of code-switching.\n\nAn example of situational code-switching can be seen in this telephone conversation between two friends. The speaker is talking about recent political events, and the language she uses is Standard Italian. When she decides to change topics, though, she marks this change by switching to Sicilian. (Standard Italian is shown in ordinary type. Sicilian is in italics.)\n\nA change in topic is an example of a changed situation that may be marked by code-switching. The speaker in this example switches from Standard Italian to the local language, marking the new situation with a different language.\n"}
{"id": "18695118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18695118", "title": "Ticuna–Yuri languages", "text": "Ticuna–Yuri languages\n\nTicuna–Yuri is a small family, perhaps even a dialect continuum, consisting of at least two, and perhaps three, known languages of South America: the major western Amazonian language Ticuna, the poorly attested and extinct Yurí, and the scarcely known language of the largely uncontacted Carabayo. Kaufman (1990, 1994) argues that the connection between the two is convincing even with the limited information available. Carvalho (2009) presented \"compelling\" evidence for the family (Campbell & Grondona 2012).\n"}
{"id": "1170723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170723", "title": "Tokelauan language", "text": "Tokelauan language\n\nTokelauan is a Polynesian language spoken in Tokelau and on Swains Island (or Olohega) in American Samoa. It is closely related to Tuvaluan and distantly related to Samoan and other Polynesian languages. Tokelauan has a co-official status with English in Tokelau. There are approximately 4,260 speakers of Tokelauan, of whom 2,100 live in New Zealand, 1,400 in Tokelau, and 17 in Swains Island. \"Tokelau\" means \"north-northeast\".\n\nLoimata Iupati, Tokelau's resident Director of Education, has stated that he is in the process of translating the Bible from English into Tokelauan.\nTokelauan was a commonly spoken language until about twenty years ago. Of the 4600 people who speak the language, 1600 of them live in the three atolls of Tokelau – Atafu, Nukunono and Fakaofo. Approximately 3000 people in New Zealand speak Tokelauan, and the rest of the known Tokelauan speakers are spread across Australia, Hawaii, and the West Coast of the United States. The Tokelauan language closely resembles the Samoan language.\n\nHoratio Hale was the first person to publish a Tokelauan dictionary of sorts, which he did in 1846. Rather than being the accepted definition of dictionary, it was a reference that only contained 214 entries of vocabulary. Hale's publication remained the only published Tokelauan reference until 1969. However, Tokelauan had been instituted into schools in the late 1940s, so prior to this publication, there wasn't much headway made in the teaching of the language. In 1969, the New Zealand Department of Education published D. W. Boardman's Tokelau-English Vocabulary. This second, more advanced reference was a collection of around 1200 vocabulary entries. In the times that passed after the second publication, the necessity of a more detailed and in depth reference to the language for the purpose of education with the Tokelauan community was realized by Hosea Kirifi (who later became the first Tokelau Director of Education) and J. H. Webster. In the year 1975, Kirifi and Webster published the first official precursory Tokelauan dictionary, which contained an estimated 3000 items, called the Tokelau-English Dictionary. This entire movement was based on the fact that the Tokelauan people take a great deal of pride in their language. Tokelauan schools lacked an abundance of resources and materials that could be used to education their children on the language. It has a high place in their culture, and the revitalization and renewal of the language for their younger generation had eventually reached a point where action had to be taken. One year after the publication of the 1975 Tokelau-English Dictionary, the government approved the installation of Ropati Simona who was to head the Tokelau Dictionary Project. This eventually led to the publication of the first comprehensive Tokelauan dictionary, Tokelau Dictionary by the Office of Tokelau Affairs in 1986.\n\nTokelau is a dependency of New Zealand and has three main parts: Atafu atoll, Nukunonu atoll, and Fakaofo atoll. Together these three atolls lay roughly about two hundred sixty nautical miles away from Samoa. The three atolls of Tokelau are also known as the Duke of York, Duke of Clarence, and D'Wolf or Bowditch, respectively (on old maps). Together, they are known as The Union Islands, The Union Group, and as the Tokelau Islands. Tokelau's language, Tokelauan, belongs to the Austronesian language family and is considered to be part of the subgroup of Polynesian languages. More than half of the speakers of the Tokelauan language reside in New Zealand, about thirty percent live in either Atafu, Nukuonono, or Fakaofo, and a minority live in Australia (geographically close to New Zealand) and states in the United States that touch the Pacific Ocean (Hawaii and other western states part of the mainland). Since Tokelau lies very close to Samoa, it is common to think that the Tokelauan language has some Samoan language influences, but due to the lack in extensive documentation, it is inaccurate to assume such a thing. Tokelauan was still only considered to be a spoken language up until the 1960s. During the 1960s schools began teaching their peoples how to read and write their own language. Short works were also produced in Tokelauan. Additionally, it was common for adults to be fluent in Samoan and Tokelauan. The Tokelauan language is small, and has always been fairly small, even before the Europeans invaded, because of the limited resources that each atoll had, which limited the number of people that could be supported on each.\n\nTokelauan is written in the Latin script, albeit only using 15 letters: \nA, E, I, O, U, F, G, K, L, M, N, P, H, T, and V.\n\nIts alphabet consists of 5 vowels:\na (pronounced: /a/), e (pronounced: /e/), i (pronounced: /i/), o (pronounced: /o/) and u (pronounced: /u/);\n\nand 10 consonants:\n/p t k f v h m n ŋ l/, /ŋ/ spelled g\n\nLong vowels are marked with a macron above them:\nā, ē, ī, ō, ū\n\nThe Tokelauan alphabet is phonemic, except for long vowels that are not differentiated orthographically by most Tokelauan writers. The language does not heavily rely on the use of macrons to lengthen their vowels. There are some phonetic similarities between sounds in the language, such as /h/ and /f/, which results in some variation in orthographic practice. For example, toha and tofa both mean goodbye but can be pronounced differently. The sounds for h, s f and wh can all be used interchangeably. There are two dialects in Polynesia, which has shaped the Tokelauan language to sound how it does. The h and wh sounds are from the older dialect, while the f and s sounds are from the newer one. The fact that all these sounds are interchangeable regardless of when it arrived at the islands suggests that no one dialect surpassed the other. Although Tokelauan is closely related to the Samoan language, there is a distinct difference between their pronunciation of words. For example, Samoan words containing the k sound can sound like g with words such as hiki often mistakenly heard as higi. Tokelauan language does not allow the k's to drop.\n\nLike English, vowels can be short or long. Moreover, vowels are lengthened for a more expressive statement. To indicate whether a vowel is read short or long, Tokelauan language denotes a long vowel with a macron over the letter symbol. A macron is a horizontal line, also seen in English. However, it is worthwhile to note that not all Tokelauan speaking peoples agree with the use of the macron. Those residing in the three atolls of Tokelau are known to have shown much resistance to the macron, while the Tokelauan speakers of New Zealand are more open and accepting of adopting the use of this linguistic symbol.\n\nAlthough there is not a lot of available systemic data for Tokelauan word stressing, linguistics have developed three rules relating word stress and vowels based upon some previous evidence. The first rule is that a long vowel will receive the main stress. Secondly, with some exceptions to rule number one, the second to last vowel would be the main stress (if the long vowel is not the main stress). And thirdly, words do not lose their normal stress when compounded with another word. Furthermore, monosyllabic grammatical morphemes are left unstressed.\n\nSimilarly to English, for each clause in Tokelauan there is a predicate. There are five types of predicates including: verbal, locative, existential, possessive, and nominal. Each predicate is available for an interrogative and declarative statement, and can also have multiple predicates conjoined.\n\nVerbal Predicates\n\n-A verbal phrase will follow a verbal clause\n\nExample: \"Kua fano\" '[S/he] has gone.'\n\n(A type of verbal predicate is an evaluative predicate which can and usually occurs with no argument).\n\nLocative Predicates\n\n-preposition i and a noun phrase following a tense-aspect particle\n\nExample: \"E i te faleha te faifeau\" 'The pastor is in the church.'\n\nBelow is a table displaying the predicative possessive pronouns in the Tokelauan language.\n\nShown below is a table showing Tokelauan premodifying possessive pronouns.\n\nThere are two articles that are used in the English language. These articles are \"the\" and \"a/an\". The usage for the word \"the\" when speaking of a noun is strictly reserved for the case in which the receiver of the word should be aware of its context, or if said item has been referred to previously. This is because in English, the word \"the\" acts as what is known as a definite article, meaning that a defined object or person is being spoken of. However, in the case of definite article usage in Tokelauan language, if the speaker is speaking of an item in the same manner as the English languages uses \"the\", they need not to have referred to it previously so long as the item is specific. The same can be said for the reference of singular being. Because of the difference is grammatical ruling, although the definite article in the Tokelauan language is \"te\", it is very common for it to translate to the English indefinite article \"a\". An indefinite article is used when there is no specification of the noun being referred to. The usage of the word \"he\", the indefinite article in Tokelauan is 'any such item'. In negative statements the word \"he\" is used because that is where it is most often found, as well as when phrasing a question. However, it is important to remember that just because these two types of statements are where \"he\" occurs the greatest it does not mean that \"he\" does not occur in other types of statements as well. Examples of both \"te\" and \"he\" are as such:\n\nTokelauan: \"Kua hau te tino\"\n\nEnglish: 'A man has arrived' or 'The man has arrived'\n\nTokelauan: \"Vili ake oi k'aumai he toki\"\n\nEnglish: 'Do run and bring me an axe'\n\nThe use of \"he\" and \"te\" in Tokelauan are reserved for when describing a singular noun. When describing a plural noun, different articles are used. For plural definite nouns, \"nā\" is the article that is used. However, in some cases, rather than using \"nā\", plural definite nouns are subject to the absence of an article represented by \"0\". The absence of an article is usually used if a large amount or a specific class of things are being described. An example of an exception to this commonality would be if one was describing an entire class of things, but in a nonspecific way. In this case, rather than \"nā\" as the article, the singular definite noun te would be used. The article \"ni\" is used for describing a plural indefinite noun. Examples of \"nā\", a \"0\" exception, and \"ni\" are as such:\n\nTokelauan: \"Vili ake oi k'aumai nā nofoa\"\n\nEnglish: 'Do run and bring me the chairs'\n\nTokelauan: \"Ko te povi e kai mutia\"\n\nEnglish: 'Cows eat grass'\n\nTokelauan: \"E i ei ni tuhi?\"\n\nEnglish: Are there any books?\n\nThe particles of the Tokelauan language are \"ia\", \"a\" (or ā), \"a te\", and \"ia te\". When describing personal names as well as the names of the month, pronouns (the use here is optional and it is most commonly used when there are words in between the pronoun and verb), and collaborative nouns that describe a group of people working together the most common particle is used. This particle is \"ia\", which is used so long as none of the nouns listed above follow the prepositions \"e\", \"o\", \"a\", or \"ko\". When the subject of a sentence is a locative or name of a place, \"ia\" is also used as the particle in those particular, as well as other specific instances. The particle \"a\" is used before a person's name as well as the names of months and the particle \"a te\" is used before pronouns when these instances are following the prepositions \"i\" or \"ki\". If describing a pronoun and using the preposition \"mai\", the article that follows is \"ia te\".\n\nThere are four main classes of lexemes in the Tokelauan language, and are as follows:\n\n1.) Noun - A lexeme formed directly after a determiner or possessive pronoun to create a noun phrase\n2.) Verb - A lexeme that comes directly after a verbal particle and expresses tense or aspect.\n3.) Locative - A lexeme that forms directly after the preposition (i, ki, or mai), without an additional determiner\n4.) Small class of “other” lexemes that don't fit into the other three classes\nMajority of the lexemes can be used in both position 1 & 2, meaning they can function as nouns and verbs, depending on the context.\n\nThe Tokulauan language makes use of complementizers pe, ke, oi, and ona. The complementizer pe is used for indicative complements, while ke, oi, and ona are used for non-indicative complements.\n\nPe: Complement used in sentences pertaining to knowledge.\n\nExample: Ko taku fakatatau lava pe na maua lava te vaiaho.\n\nTOP 1sg.POSSguess INT COMPT/A obtain INT DET week\n\n\"'My guess was that a full week had passed.\"'\n\nKe: Complement used in sentences pertaining to purpose.\n\nExample: Kua fiu foki ke-iru-au a!\n\nT/A fed-up indeed COMP drink 1sg EXCLM\n\n\"'[They] were tired of trying to get me to drink.\"'\n\nOna: Complement used in sentences pertaining to “phasal, modal, and commentative predicates.”\n\nExample: Kua tatau ono fai he fale.\n\nT/A necessary COMP make a house\n\n\"'It had become necessary to acquire a house\"'\n\nOi: Complement used in sentences pertaining to items of sequence.\n\nExample: Kuo toeitiiti ol nofo mti te fet0 tEia.\n\nT/A be-soon COMP sit DIR DET star DEM\n\n\"'Very soon that star will be in the ascendant.\"'\n\nThe Tokelauan language also must take into mind the systematics of its complements. There is a bonding hierarchy between the complements and its sentences. According to Hooper's research, there are four elements that in Tokelauan semantics that determine the strength of the bond between the complement and rest of the sentence. In the binding system, the complements act inversely to the verb of the sentence. Therefore, if the strength of the verb is higher on the binding scale, the complement is unlikely to appear as its own separate clause. The four elements are: Subject/agent case marking, Verb modalities, Fusion or co-lexicalization, and Separation.\n\nSubject/agent case marking: “'The higher the main verb is on the binding scale, the less likely is the subject/agent of the complement to display the case-marking characteristics of subjects/agents of main clauses.'” (Quoted from Givón)\n\nVerb modalities: “'The higher the main verb is on the binding scale, the less likely is the complement verb to display the tense-aspect-modality markings characteristics of main-clause verbs.'” (Quoted from Givón)\n\nFusion or co-lexicalization: “'The higher the main verb is on the binding scale, the more likely is the complement verb to co-lexicalize with the main verb.'” (Quoted from Givón)\n\nSeparation: “'The higher the main verb is on the binding scale, the less likely it is that a subordinating morpheme would separate the complement clause from the main clause.'” (Quoted from Givón)\n\nTokelauan is a quite free flowing language as the sentence structures can vary greatly. Although there is a preferred method of ordering the phrase (i.e, argument, subject, case complement), the language allows for different variations. There are certain rules when it comes to sentence permutations when it comes to “subject shifting” or “case scrambling.” Generally, across these sentence permutations, the parts of speech, such as argument, subject, and case complements, have to stay together. Meaning, the argument is one section that would shift together and subject is its own unit.\n\nSubject shift:\n\nna havali mai te fale i te auala te teine\n\nargument case complement subject\n\nWalked from the house along the road the girl\n\nna havali te teine mai te fale i te auala\n\nargument subject case complement\n\nWalked the girl from the house along the road\n\nCase scramble:\n\nna kai te ika e au i te hiipuni\n\nna kai e au te ika i te hiipuni\n\nna kai e au i te hiipuni te ika\n\nAll of which still mean, The fish was eaten by me with a spoon.\n\nTokelauan is mutually intelligible with the Tuvaluan language. Samoan literature is recognised mostly due to the early introduction of Christian Samoan missionaries to which the Samoan language was held as the language of instruction at school and at church . It also has marked similarities to the Niuafo'ou language of Tonga.\n\ndistinctions in sibling terms. The language has specific words for different members of the family, and some of these terms have multiple meanings.\n\nThere are three terms that showcase the distinction of same-sex and opposite-sex sibling terms: Sibling of own sex (male or female); sibling of opposite sex (male); and sibling of opposite sex, (female). For example, 'mother's sister,' 'male cousin's brother' and 'sister's nephew' are all different terms in the Tokelauan language. In Tokelau, the term most closely translated to “incest” is \"holi kāiga\" which is made up of two words: holi meaning 'to tread' and also 'to desecrate' or 'violate'. The word \"Kāiga\" means 'kinship'. The term holi kāiga can be applied to not only a 'desecration of kinship' but in any cases that the order of kinship is changed, for example a child defying an elder. The most common use of the term, however, is used when speaking about the sexual contact between individuals. In the Tokelauan language, \"Kāiga\" has both adjectival and nominal linguistic functions:\nWhen the word is used nominally, it may imply a diverse variety of social units that all have a shared ancestor. The Tokelau languages contains terms for affinal relationships, however, there is no single word that can be transcribed as 'affinity'. The term opposite of kāiga ('kin' or 'related') is he kāiga ('not kin' or 'unrelated'), and that only those who are he kāiga should be wedded. Violating the kinship relationship means breaching not only the current relationship but the whole kinship of all descendants.\n\nWith less than 5000 speakers, the Tokelauan language is endangered. There is a struggle to teach a language that is spoken by only handful of people, when learning a widely known language such as English, has a much greater benefit in their society. The Heritage language of the community starts to diminish as parents stray away from teaching their child(ren) the native language, in hopes that they will succeed in learning the more dominant language. Older generations of people living in Tokelau speak both Tokelauan and Samoan, but the younger generation, due to the newer schooling system, are apt to speaking English rather than Samoan. In a census in 2001 in New Zealand, only 44 percent of the people with a Tokelauan background could hold a conversation in the language, compared to 53 percent in 1996. Comparably, a meager 29 percent of New Zealand-born Tokelauans reported being able to speak the language, compared to the 71 percent born in the three atolls.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17782135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17782135", "title": "Vayu language", "text": "Vayu language\n\nVayu (वायु), Wayu or Hayu (हायु) is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken in Nepal by about 1740 people in the Janakpur Zone. Dialects include Sindhuli and Marin Khola.\n\nThe Vayu language features SOV ordering. There are strong Nepali influences in its phonology, lexicon, and grammar. Its writing system uses the Devanagari script. There are no known monolingual speakers of the language, as its speaking population also uses Nepali. Despite a lack of monolingual children, use of Vayu has survived into the 21st century \n\nVayu is spoken in the following locations of Nepal.\n\n\nVayu is spoken in the Sun Koshi valley, southwards across the Mahabharat range. Ethnic Vayu live on the hills on both sides of the Sun Kosi River but the language is only spoken in the villages listed.\n\n\nHodgson, B. (1857). Váyu Vocabulary. \"Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal 26.\" 372-485.\n\nHodgson, B. (1858). On the Vayu tribe of the Central Himalaya. \"Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal 27.\" 443-6.\n\nMichailovsky, B. (1973). Notes on the Hayu language. \"Kailash : A Journal of Himalayan Studies, 1(2)\", 135-152.\nMichailovsky, B. (1974). Hayu Typology and Verbal Morphology. \"Linguistics Of The Tibeto-Burman Area\", 11-26.\n\nMichailovsky, B. (1976). A Case of Rhinoglottophilia in Hayu. \"Linguistics Of The Tibeto-Burman Area\", 2293.\n\nPark, I. (1995). Grammaticalization of Verbs in Three Tibeto-Burman Languages. \"Dissertation Abstracts International, 55(8)\", 2369A.\n\nSherard, M. (1986). Morphological Structure of the Pronominal and Verb Systems in Two Pronominalized Himalayan Languages. In J. McCoy, T. Light (Eds.) , \"Contributions to Sino-Tibetan Studies\" (pp. 172–199). Leiden: Brill.\n\nYadava, Y. P., Glover, W. W. (1999). Topics in Nepalese Linguistics. In Yadava, Yogendra P. and Warren W. Glover (eds.) Kamaladi, Kathmandu: Royal Nepal Academy. p. 603.\n\n"}
{"id": "402170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=402170", "title": "Visual inspection", "text": "Visual inspection\n\nVisual inspection is a common method of quality control, data acquisition, and data analysis.\nVisual Inspection, used in maintenance of facilities, mean inspection of equipment and structures using either or all of raw human senses such as vision, hearing, touch and smell and/or any non-specialized inspection equipment.\nInspections requiring Ultrasonic, X-Ray equipment, Infra-red, etc. are not typically regarded as Visual Inspection as these Inspection methodologies require specialized equipment, training and certification.\n\nA study of the visual inspection of small integrated circuits found that the modal duration of eye fixations of trained inspectors was about 200 ms. The most accurate inspectors made the fewest eye fixations and were the fastest. When the same chip was judged more than once by an individual inspector the consistency of judgment was very high whereas the consistency between inspectors was somewhat less. Variation by a factor of six in inspection speed led to variation of less than a factor of two in inspection accuracy. Visual inspection had a false positive rate of 2% and a false negative rate of 23%.\n\nTo do an eyeball search is to look for something specific in a mass of code or data with one's own eyes, as opposed to using some sort of pattern matching software like grep or any other automated search tool. Also known as vgrep or ogrep, i.e., \"visual/optical grep\", and in the IBM mainframe world as IEBIBALL. The most important application of eyeball search / vgrep in software engineering is vdiff.\n\nIn various disciplines it is also called the \"eyeball technique\" or \"eyeball method\" (of data assessment).\n\n\"Eyeballing\" is the most common and readily available method of initial data assessment.\n\nExperts in pattern recognition maintain that the \"eyeball\" technique is still the most effective procedure for searching arbitrary, possibly unknown structures in data.\n\nIn the military, applying this sort of search to real-world terrain is often referred to as \"using the Mark I Eyeball\" device (pronounced as Mark One Eyeball), the U.S. military adopting it in 1950s. The term is an allusion on military nomenclature, \"Mark I\" being the first version of a military vehicle or weapon.\n\n"}
{"id": "46591909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46591909", "title": "Watse Cuperus", "text": "Watse Cuperus\n\nWatse Cuperus (1891 – 1966) was a Dutch journalist, writer and translator. He wrote in West Frisian, and his most important work is \"The golden wire\" (De gouden tried, 1941–50).\n\n\n\n\n"}
