{"id": "38575472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38575472", "title": "1940 in philosophy", "text": "1940 in philosophy\n\n1940 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2508635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2508635", "title": "A New Concordance of the Bible", "text": "A New Concordance of the Bible\n\nA New Concordance of the Bible (full title A New Concordance of the Bible: Thesaurus of the Language of the Bible, Hebrew and Aramaic, Roots, Words, Proper Names Phrases and Synonyms) by Avraham Even-Shoshan is a concordance of the Hebrew text of the Hebrew Bible, first published in 1977. The source text used is that of the Koren edition of 1958.\n\n"}
{"id": "1043968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043968", "title": "Aaron Ciechanover", "text": "Aaron Ciechanover\n\nAaron Ciechanover ( ; ; born October 1, 1947) is an Israeli biologist, who won the Nobel prize in Chemistry for characterizing the method that cells use to degrade and recycle proteins using ubiquitin.\n\nCiechanover was born in Haifa, a year before the establishment of Israel. He is the son of Bluma (Lubashevsky), a teacher of English, and Yitzhak Ciechanover, an office worker. His family were Jewish immigrants from Poland before World War II.\n\nHe earned a master's degree in science in 1971 and graduated from Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem in 1974. On a visit to New York in 1977, Ciechanover spent two hours in a meeting with Rabbi Menachem M. Schneerson who discussed the nature of his research with him. He received his doctorate in biochemistry in 1981 from the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa before conducting postdoctoral research in the laboratory of Harvey Lodish at the Whitehead Institute at MIT from 1981-1984. He is currently a Technion Distinguished Research Professor in the Ruth and Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine and Research Institute at the Technion.\n\nCiechanover is a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and is a foreign associate of the United States National Academy of Sciences.\n\nAs one of Israel's first Nobel Laureates in Science, he is honored in playing a central role in the history of Israel and in the history of the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology.\n\nCiechanover is an atheist and does not believe in an afterlife, but strongly Jewish culturally.\n\nHe lectured at the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology in North Korea in May 2016.\n\nhttps://pust.co/index.php/2016/05/07/nobel-laureates-and-european-prince-visit-pust/\n\n\nCiechanover has served on the Scientific Advisory Boards of the following companies: Rosetta Genomics (Chairman), BioLineRx, Ltd, StemRad, Ltd, Allosterix Ltd, Proteologics, Inc, MultiGene Vascular Systems, Ltd, Protalix BioTherapeutics and BioTheryX, Inc.\n\nCiechanover is a member of the Advisory Board of Patient Innovation, a nonprofit, international, multilingual, free venue for patients and caregivers of any disease to share their innovations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56244", "title": "Antonio Gramsci", "text": "Antonio Gramsci\n\nAntonio Francesco Gramsci (; ; 22 January 1891 – 27 April 1937) was an Italian Marxist philosopher and communist politician. He wrote on political theory, sociology and linguistics. He attempted to break from the economic determinism of traditional Marxist thought and so is considered a key neo-Marxist. He was a founding member and one-time leader of the Communist Party of Italy and was imprisoned by Benito Mussolini's Fascist regime.\n\nHe wrote more than 30 notebooks and 3,000 pages of history and analysis during his imprisonment. His \"Prison Notebooks\" are considered a highly original contribution to 20th century political theory. Gramsci drew insights from varying sources – not only other Marxists but also thinkers such as Niccolò Machiavelli, Vilfredo Pareto, Georges Sorel and Benedetto Croce. The notebooks cover a wide range of topics, including Italian history and nationalism, the French Revolution, fascism, Fordism, civil society, folklore, religion and high and popular culture.\n\nGramsci is best known for his theory of cultural hegemony, which describes how the state and ruling capitalist class – the bourgeoisie – use cultural institutions to maintain power in capitalist societies. The bourgeoisie, in Gramsci's view, develops a hegemonic culture using ideology rather than violence, economic force, or coercion. Hegemonic culture propagates its own values and norms so that they become the \"common sense\" values of all and thus maintain the \"status quo\". Hegemonic power is therefore used to maintain consent to the capitalist order, rather than coercive power using force to maintain order. This cultural hegemony is produced and reproduced by the dominant class through the institutions that form the superstructure.\n\nGramsci was born in Ales, in the province of Oristano, on the island of Sardinia, the fourth of seven sons of Francesco Gramsci (1860–1937) and Giuseppina Marcias (1861–1932). The senior Gramsci was a low-level official born in the small town of Gaeta, in the province of Latina (in the Central Italian region of Lazio), to a well-off family from the Southern Italian region of Campania and of remote Arbëreshë descent, though Gramsci himself mistakenly believed his father's family had left Albania as recently as 1821 (the Albanian origin of his father's family is attested in the surname Gramsci, an Italianized form of \"Gramshi\", that stems from the definite noun of the placename Gramsh, a small town in today Elbasan County, in centre-eastern Albania.), while his wife belonged to a Sardinian landowning family from Sorgono (in the province of Nuoro). The senior Gramsci's financial difficulties and troubles with the police forced the family to move about through several villages in Sardinia until they finally settled in Ghilarza.\n\nIn 1898 Francesco was convicted of embezzlement and imprisoned, reducing his family to destitution. The young Antonio had to abandon schooling and work at various casual jobs until his father's release in 1904. As a boy, Gramsci suffered from health problems, particularly a malformation of the spine that stunted his growth (his adult height was less than 5 feet) and left him seriously hunchbacked. For decades, it was reported that his condition had been due to a childhood accident—specifically, having been dropped by a nanny—but more recently it has been suggested that it was due to Pott disease, a form of tuberculosis that can cause deformity of the spine. Gramsci was also plagued by various internal disorders throughout his life.\n\nGramsci completed secondary school in Cagliari, where he lodged with his elder brother Gennaro, a former soldier whose time on the mainland had made him a militant socialist. However, Gramsci's sympathies then did not lie with socialism, but rather with the grievances of impoverished Sardinian peasants and miners. They perceived their neglect as a result of privileges enjoyed by the rapidly industrialising North, and they tended to turn to a growing Sardinian nationalism, brutally repressed by troops from the Italian mainland, as a response.\n\nIn 1911, Gramsci won a scholarship to study at the University of Turin, sitting the exam at the same time as Palmiro Togliatti. At Turin, he read literature and took a keen interest in linguistics, which he studied under Matteo Bartoli. Gramsci was in Turin as it was going through industrialization, with the Fiat and Lancia factories recruiting workers from poorer regions. Trade unions became established, and the first industrial social conflicts started to emerge. Gramsci frequented socialist circles as well as associating with Sardinian emigrants on the Italian mainland. His worldview was shaped by both his earlier experiences in Sardinia and his environment on the mainland. Gramsci joined the Italian Socialist Party in late 1913, where he would later occupy a key position and observe from Turin the Russian revolutionary process.\n\nAlthough showing talent for his studies, Gramsci had financial problems and poor health. Together with his growing political commitment, these led to his abandoning his education in early 1915, at age 24. By this time, he had acquired an extensive knowledge of history and philosophy. At university, he had come into contact with the thought of Antonio Labriola, Rodolfo Mondolfo, Giovanni Gentile, and most importantly, Benedetto Croce, possibly the most widely respected Italian intellectual of his day. Labriola especially propounded a brand of Hegelian Marxism that he labelled \"philosophy of praxis\". Although Gramsci later used this phrase to escape the prison censors, his relationship with this current of thought was ambiguous throughout his life.\n\nFrom 1914 onward, Gramsci's writings for socialist newspapers such as \"Il Grido del Popolo\" earned him a reputation as a notable journalist. In 1916, he became co-editor of the Piedmont edition of \"Avanti!\", the Socialist Party official organ. An articulate and prolific writer of political theory, Gramsci proved a formidable commentator, writing on all aspects of Turin's social and political life.\n\nGramsci was, at this time, also involved in the education and organisation of Turin workers; he spoke in public for the first time in 1916 and gave talks on topics such as Romain Rolland, the French Revolution, the Paris Commune, and the emancipation of women. In the wake of the arrest of Socialist Party leaders that followed the revolutionary riots of August 1917, Gramsci became one of Turin's leading socialists when he was both elected to the party's Provisional Committee and made editor of \"Il Grido del Popolo\".\n\nIn April 1919, with Togliatti, Angelo Tasca and Umberto Terracini, Gramsci set up the weekly newspaper \"L'Ordine Nuovo\" (The New Order). In October the same year, despite being divided into various hostile factions, the Socialist Party moved by a large majority to join the Third International. The \"L'Ordine Nuovo\" group was seen by Vladimir Lenin as closest in orientation to the Bolsheviks, and it received his backing against the anti-parliamentary programme of the left communist Amadeo Bordiga.\n\nAmong tactical debates within the party, Gramsci's group was mainly distinguished by its advocacy of workers' councils, which had come into existence in Turin spontaneously during the large strikes of 1919 and 1920. For Gramsci, these councils were the proper means of enabling workers to take control of the task of organising production. Although he believed his position at this time to be in keeping with Lenin's policy of \"All power to the Soviets\", his stance that these Italian councils were communist, rather than just one organ of political struggle against the bourgeoisie, was attacked by Bordiga for betraying a syndicalist tendency influenced by the thought of Georges Sorel and Daniel DeLeon. By the time of the defeat of the Turin workers in spring 1920, Gramsci was almost alone in his defence of the councils.\n\nThe failure of the workers' councils to develop into a national movement convinced Gramsci that a Communist Party in the Leninist sense was needed. The group around \"L'Ordine Nuovo\" declaimed incessantly against the Italian Socialist Party's centrist leadership and ultimately allied with Bordiga's far larger \"abstentionist\" faction. On 21 January 1921, in the town of Livorno (Leghorn), the Communist Party of Italy (\"Partito Comunista d'Italia – PCI\") was founded. Gramsci supported against Bordiga the \"Arditi del Popolo\", a militant anti-fascist group which struggled against the Blackshirts.\n\nGramsci would be a leader of the party from its inception but was subordinate to Bordiga, whose emphasis on discipline, centralism and purity of principles dominated the party's programme until he lost the leadership in 1924.\n\nIn 1922, Gramsci travelled to Russia as a representative of the new party. Here, he met Julia Schucht, a young violinist whom he married in 1923 and by whom he had two sons, Delio (born 1924) and Giuliano (born 1926). Gramsci never saw his second son.\n\nThe Russian mission coincided with the advent of fascism in Italy, and Gramsci returned with instructions to foster, against the wishes of the PCI leadership, a united front of leftist parties against fascism. Such a front would ideally have had the PCI at its centre, through which Moscow would have controlled all the leftist forces, but others disputed this potential supremacy: socialists did have a certain tradition in Italy, too, while the Communist Party seemed relatively young and too radical. Many believed that an eventual coalition led by communists would have functioned too remotely from political debate, and thus would have run the risk of isolation.\n\nIn late 1922 and early 1923, Benito Mussolini's government embarked on a campaign of repression against the opposition parties, arresting most of the PCI leadership, including Bordiga. At the end of 1923, Gramsci travelled from Moscow to Vienna, where he tried to revive a party torn by factional strife.\n\nIn 1924 Gramsci, now recognised as head of the PCI, gained election as a deputy for the Veneto. He started organizing the launch of the official newspaper of the party, called \"L'Unità\" (Unity), living in Rome while his family stayed in Moscow. At its Lyon Congress in January 1926, Gramsci's theses calling for a united front to restore democracy to Italy were adopted by the party.\n\nIn 1926, Joseph Stalin's manoeuvres inside the Bolshevik party moved Gramsci to write a letter to the Comintern in which he deplored the opposition led by Leon Trotsky but also underlined some presumed faults of the leader. Togliatti, in Moscow as a representative of the party, received the letter, opened it, read it, and decided not to deliver it. This caused a difficult conflict between Gramsci and Togliatti which they never completely resolved.\n\nOn 9 November 1926, the Fascist government enacted a new wave of emergency laws, taking as a pretext an alleged attempt on Mussolini's life several days earlier. The fascist police arrested Gramsci, despite his parliamentary immunity, and brought him to the Roman prison \"Regina Coeli\".\n\nAt his trial, Gramsci's prosecutor stated, \"For twenty years we must stop this brain from functioning\". He received an immediate sentence of five years in confinement on the island of Ustica and the following year he received a sentence of 20 years' imprisonment in Turi, near Bari.\n\nOver 11 years in prison, his health deteriorated: \"His teeth fell out, his digestive system collapsed so that he could not eat solid food... he had convulsions when he vomited blood, and suffered headaches so violent that he beat his head against the walls of his cell.\"\n\nAn international campaign, organised by Piero Sraffa at Cambridge University and Gramsci's sister-in-law Tatiana, was mounted to demand Gramsci's release. In 1933 he was moved from the prison at Turi to a clinic at Formia, but was still being denied adequate medical attention. Two years later he was moved to the \"Quisisana\" clinic in Rome. He was due for release on 21 April 1937 and planned to retire to Sardinia for convalescence, but a combination of arteriosclerosis, pulmonary tuberculosis, high blood pressure, angina, gout and acute gastric disorders meant that he was too ill to move. Gramsci died on 27 April 1937, at the age of 46. His ashes are buried in the Cimitero Acattolico (Non-Catholic Cemetery) in Rome.\n\nGramsci was one of the most important Marxist thinkers of the 20th century, and a particularly key thinker in the development of Western Marxism. He wrote more than 30 notebooks and 3,000 pages of history and analysis during his imprisonment. These writings, known as the \"Prison Notebooks\", contain Gramsci's tracing of Italian history and nationalism, as well as some ideas in Marxist theory, critical theory and educational theory associated with his name, such as:\n\n\nHegemony was a term previously used by Marxists such as Vladimir Lenin to denote the political leadership of the working-class in a democratic revolution. Gramsci greatly expanded this concept, developing an acute analysis of how the ruling capitalist class – the bourgeoisie – establishes and maintains its control.\n\nOrthodox Marxism had predicted that socialist revolution was inevitable in capitalist societies. By the early 20th century, no such revolution had occurred in the most advanced nations. Capitalism, it seemed, was more entrenched than ever. Capitalism, Gramsci suggested, maintained control not just through violence and political and economic coercion, but also through ideology. The bourgeoisie developed a hegemonic culture, which propagated its own values and norms so that they became the \"common sense\" values of all. People in the working-class (and other classes) identified their own good with the good of the bourgeoisie, and helped to maintain the \"status quo\" rather than revolting.\n\nTo counter the notion that bourgeois values represented \"natural\" or \"normal\" values for society, the working class needed to develop a culture of its own. Lenin held that culture was \"ancillary\" to political objectives, but for Gramsci it was fundamental to the attainment of power that \"cultural hegemony\" be achieved first. In Gramsci's view, a class cannot dominate in modern conditions by merely advancing its own narrow economic interests; neither can it dominate purely through force and coercion. Rather, it must exert intellectual and moral leadership, and make alliances and compromises with a variety of forces. Gramsci calls this union of social forces a \"historic bloc\", taking a term from Georges Sorel. This bloc forms the basis of consent to a certain social order, which produces and re-produces the hegemony of the dominant class through a nexus of institutions, social relations, and ideas. In this way, Gramsci's theory emphasized the importance of the political and ideological superstructure in both maintaining and fracturing relations of the economic base.\n\nGramsci stated that bourgeois cultural values were tied to folklore, popular culture and religion, and therefore much of his analysis of hegemonic culture is aimed at these. He was also impressed by the influence Roman Catholicism had and the care the Church had taken to prevent an excessive gap developing between the religion of the learned and that of the less educated. Gramsci saw Marxism as a marriage of the purely intellectual critique of religion found in Renaissance humanism and the elements of the Reformation that had appealed to the masses. For Gramsci, Marxism could supersede religion only if it met people's spiritual needs, and to do so people would have to think of it as an expression of their own experience.\n\nFor Gramsci, hegemonic dominance ultimately relied on a \"consented\" coercion, and in a \"crisis of authority\" the \"masks of consent\" slip away, revealing the fist of force.\n\nGramsci gave much thought to the role of intellectuals in society. Famously, he stated that all men are intellectuals, in that all have intellectual and rational faculties, but not all men have the social function of intellectuals. He saw modern intellectuals not as talkers, but as practically-minded directors and organisers who produced hegemony through ideological apparatuses such as education and the media. Furthermore, he distinguished between a \"traditional\" intelligentsia which sees itself (wrongly) as a class apart from society, and the thinking groups which every class produces from its own ranks \"organically\". Such \"organic\" intellectuals do not simply describe social life in accordance with scientific rules, but instead articulate, through the language of culture, the feelings and experiences which the masses could not express for themselves. To Gramsci, it was the duty of organic intellectuals to speak to the obscured precepts of folk wisdom, or common sense (\"senso comune\"), of their respective politic spheres. These intellectuals would represent excluded social groups of a society, what Gramsci referred to as the subaltern.\n\nIn line with Gramsci's theories of hegemonic power, he argued that capitalist power needed to be challenged by building a counter-hegemony. By this he meant that, as part of the war of position, the organic intellectuals and others within the working-class, need to develop alternative values and an alternative ideology in contrast to bourgeois ideology. He argued that the reason this had not needed to happen in Russia was because the Russian ruling-class did not have genuine hegemonic power. So the Bolsheviks were able to see through a war of manoeuvre (the 1917 revolution), relatively easily, because ruling-class hegemony had never been fully achieved. He believed that a final war of manoeuvre was only possible, in the developed and advanced capitalist societies, when the war of position had been won by the organic intellectuals and the working-class building a counter-hegemony.\n\nThe need to create a working-class culture and a counter-hegemony relates to Gramsci's call for a kind of education that could develop working-class intellectuals, whose task was \"not\" to introduce Marxist ideology into the consciousness of the proletariat as a set of foreign notions, but to renovate the existing intellectual activity of the masses and make it natively critical of the \"status quo\". His ideas about an education system for this purpose correspond with the notion of critical pedagogy and popular education as theorized and practised in later decades by Paulo Freire in Brazil, and have much in common with the thought of Frantz Fanon. For this reason, partisans of adult and popular education consider Gramsci an important voice to this day.\n\nGramsci's theory of hegemony is tied to his conception of the capitalist state. Gramsci does not understand the 'state' in the narrow sense of the government. Instead, he divides it between 'political society' (the police, the army, legal system, etc.) – the arena of political institutions and legal constitutional control – and 'civil society' (the family, the education system, trade unions, etc.) – commonly seen as the 'private' or 'non-state' sphere, mediating between the state and the economy. However, he stresses that the division is purely conceptual and that the two often overlap in reality. Gramsci claims the capitalist state rules through force plus consent: political society is the realm of force and civil society is the realm of consent.\n\nGramsci proffers that under modern capitalism, the bourgeoisie can maintain its economic control by allowing certain demands made by trade unions and mass political parties within civil society to be met by the political sphere. Thus, the bourgeoisie engages in passive revolution by going beyond its immediate economic interests and allowing the forms of its hegemony to change. Gramsci posits that movements such as reformism and fascism, as well as the 'scientific management' and assembly line methods of Frederick Taylor and Henry Ford, respectively, are examples of this.\n\nDrawing from Machiavelli, he argues that 'The Modern Prince' – the revolutionary party – is the force that will allow the working-class to develop organic intellectuals and an alternative hegemony within civil society. For Gramsci, the complex nature of modern civil society means that a 'war of position', carried out by revolutionaries through political agitation, the trade unions, advancement of proletarian culture, and other ways to create an opposing civil society was necessary alongside a 'war of manoeuvre' – a direct revolution – in order to have a successful revolution without a danger of a counter-revolution or degeneration.\n\nDespite his claim that the lines between the two may be blurred, Gramsci rejects the state-worship that results from identifying political society with civil society, as was done by the Jacobins and Fascists. He believes the proletariat's historical task is to create a 'regulated society' and defines the 'withering away of the state' as the full development of civil society's ability to regulate itself.\n\nGramsci, like the early Marx, was an emphatic proponent of historicism. In Gramsci's view, all meaning derives from the relation between human practical activity (or \"praxis\") and the \"objective\" historical and social processes of which it is a part. Ideas cannot be understood outside their social and historical context, apart from their function and origin. The concepts by which we organise our knowledge of the world do not derive primarily from our relation to things (to an objective reality), but rather from the social relations (economic, for Marx) between the bearers of those concepts. As a result, there is no such thing as an unchanging \"human nature\". Furthermore, philosophy and science do not \"reflect\" a reality independent of man. Rather, a theory can be said to be \"true\" when, in any given historical situation, it expresses the real developmental trend of that situation.\n\nFor the majority of Marxists, truth was truth no matter when and where it is known, and scientific knowledge (which included Marxism) accumulated historically as the advance of truth in this everyday sense. In this view, Marxism (or the Marxist theory of history and economics) did not belong to the illusory realm of the superstructure because it is a science. In contrast, Gramsci believed Marxism was \"true\" in a socially pragmatic sense: by articulating the class consciousness of the proletariat, Marxism expressed the \"truth\" of its times better than any other theory. This anti-scientistic and anti-positivist stance was indebted to the influence of Benedetto Croce. However, it should be underlined that Gramsci's \"absolute historicism\" broke with Croce's tendency to secure a metaphysical synthesis in historical \"destiny\". Though Gramsci repudiates the charge, his historical account of truth has been criticised as a form of relativism.\n\nIn a notable pre-prison article entitled \"The Revolution against \", Gramsci wrote that the October Revolution in Russia had invalidated the idea that socialist revolution had to await the full development of capitalist forces of production. This reflected his view that Marxism was not a determinist philosophy. The principle of the causal \"primacy\" of the forces of production was a misconception of Marxism. Both economic changes and cultural changes are expressions of a \"basic historical process\", and it is difficult to say which sphere has primacy over the other. The belief from the earliest years of the workers' movement that it would inevitably triumph due to \"historical laws\" was a product of the historical circumstances of an oppressed class restricted mainly to defensive action. This fatalistic doctrine was to be abandoned as a hindrance once the working-class became able to take the initiative. Because Marxism is a \"philosophy of praxis\", it cannot rely on unseen \"historical laws\" as the agents of social change. History is defined by human praxis and therefore includes human will. Nonetheless, will-power cannot achieve anything it likes in any given situation: when the consciousness of the working-class reaches the stage of development necessary for action, it will encounter historical circumstances that cannot be arbitrarily altered. However, it is not predetermined by historical inevitability or \"destiny\" as to which of several possible developments will take place as a result.\n\nHis critique of economism also extended to that practised by the syndicalists of the Italian trade unions. He believed that many trade unionists had settled for a reformist, gradualist approach in that they had refused to struggle on the political front in addition to the economic front. For Gramsci, much as the ruling class can look beyond its own immediate economic interests to reorganise the forms of its own hegemony, so must the working-class present its own interests as congruous with the universal advancement of society. While Gramsci envisioned the trade unions as one organ of a counter-hegemonic force in capitalist society, the trade union leaders simply saw these organizations as a means to improve conditions within the existing structure. Gramsci referred to the views of these trade unionists as \"vulgar economism\", which he equated to covert reformism and even liberalism.\n\nBy virtue of his belief that human history and collective praxis determine whether any philosophical question is meaningful or not, Gramsci's views run contrary to the metaphysical materialism and 'copy' theory of perception advanced by Engels and Lenin, though he does not explicitly state this. For Gramsci, Marxism does not deal with a reality that exists in and for itself, independent of humanity. The concept of an objective universe outside of human history and human praxis was analogous to belief in God. Gramsci defined objectivity in terms of a universal intersubjectivity to be established in a future communist society. Natural history was thus only meaningful in relation to human history. In his view philosophical materialism resulted from a lack of critical thought, and could not be said to oppose religious dogma and superstition. Despite this, Gramsci resigned himself to the existence of this arguably cruder form of Marxism. Marxism was a philosophy for the proletariat, a subaltern class, and thus could often only be expressed in the form of popular superstition and common sense. Nonetheless, it was necessary to effectively challenge the ideologies of the educated classes, and to do so Marxists must present their philosophy in a more sophisticated guise, and attempt to genuinely understand their opponents’ views.\n\nGramsci's thought emanates from the organized left, but he has also become an important figure in current academic discussions within cultural studies and critical theory. Political theorists from the center and the right have also found insight in his concepts; his idea of hegemony, for example, has become widely cited. His influence is particularly strong in contemporary political science (see Neo-gramscianism). His work also heavily influenced intellectual discourse on popular culture and scholarly popular culture studies in which many have found the potential for political or ideological resistance to dominant government and business interests.\n\nHis critics charge him with fostering a notion of power struggle through ideas. They find the Gramscian approach to philosophical analysis, reflected in current academic controversies, to be in conflict with open-ended, liberal inquiry grounded in apolitical readings of the classics of Western culture. Gramscians would counter that thoughts of \"liberal inquiry\" and \"apolitical reading\" are utterly naive; for the Gramscians, these are intellectual devices used to maintain the hegemony of the capitalist class. To credit or blame Gramsci for the travails of current academic politics is an odd turn of history, since Gramsci himself was never an academic, and was in fact deeply intellectually engaged with Italian culture, history, and current liberal thought.\n\nAs a socialist, Gramsci's legacy has been disputed. Togliatti, who led the Party (renamed as Italian Communist Party, PCI) after World War II and whose gradualist approach was a forerunner to Eurocommunism, claimed that the PCI's practices during this period were congruent with Gramscian thought. It is speculated that he would likely have been expelled from his Party if his true views had been known, particularly his growing hostility to Stalin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44040304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44040304", "title": "Arturo Carsetti", "text": "Arturo Carsetti\n\nArturo Carsetti is an Italian Philosopher of sciences and former Professor of philosophy of science at the University of Bari and the University of Rome Tor Vergata. He is the editor of the Italian Journal for the philosophy of science \"La Nuova Critica\" founded in 1957 by Valerio Tonini. He is notable for his contributions, also as a member of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts, to philosophy of science, epistemology, cognitive science and philosophy of mind.\n\nArturo Carsetti received a degree in philosophy (cum laude) from the University of Rome La Sapienza. Initially he was Head of the research program S.I.R. at the Italian National Research Council. In 1973 he was appointed assistant of psychology at the University of Rome La Sapienza. From 1975 to 1980 he taught logic at the University of Trieste and he was full Professor of philosophy of science since 1980 until 2012 at the University of Bari and University of Rome Tor Vergata From 1992 to 1995 he was Head of the Department of Philosophy of the University of Rome Tor Vergata.\n\nInfluenced by Vittorio Somenzi, Heinz von Foerster and Henri Atlan he became interested in applying Cybernetics and Information Theory to living systems. During his stay in Trieste he worked in collaboration with Gaetano Kanizsa about the procedures of self-organization in visual cognition. In 1981 he began a working relationship with Francisco Varela and Jean Petitot and many other scholars in the field of Self-organization Theory and Complexity Theory. In particular, he investigated the link between meaning and information as outlined by Rudolf Carnap and his followers as well as the concept of \"reflexive model\" as introduced by Dana Scott. In the following years he also worked in collaboration with the Austrian philosopher Werner Leinfellner and he was the editor of the \"Essays of Science and Epistemology Dedicated to Werner Leinfellner\" He has been Visiting Professor at the École Normale Supérieure, École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales and Konrad Lorenz Institut of Vienna. In the 80s and 90s also as a result of a long-term collaboration with Stephen Gossberg and other scholars he edited many volumes and special issues of \"La Nuova Critica\" devoted to Cognitive Science and Complexity Theory. He is member of the following scientific Societies: SILFS (until 2011), SFI, AST, SIBPA, CiE, IACAP and he has been the Editor-in-chief of the international journal \"La Nuova Critica\" since 1984. He was also Co-Editor of the journals: \"Evolution and Cognition\" and \"Zeitschrift für Wissenschaftsforschung\" and he is member of the Advisory Board of the “Logic and Philosophy of Science” journal . He has been the Director of the International Agreement of Scientific Collaboration stipulated by the Universities of Graz and Rome Tor Vergata. Since 1996 Carsetti is European Evaluator and in 2012 he joined the European Academy of Sciences and Arts. In the period 1981-2010 he organized 18 International Conferences, Colloquia and Workshops and participated in multiple Colloquia and Meetings in Philosophy of Sciences all over the world. From 1981 to 2005 he was member of the Scientific Committee of the University of Rome Tor Vergata. In the period 1994-1997 he was the National Coordinator of a group of research in the field of Philosophy of Science at the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (Italy) (MIUR). During 1995 and 1997 he was the National Coordinator of a group of research in the field of Philosophy of Science at the CNR (Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche). From 2000 to 2010 he coordinated five Research Projects at MIUR, (PRIN 2000, 2002, 2004, 2006 and 2008). At the moment he is the international Coordinator of the Research Project \"LNC, IPR, Eigenforms, self-organizing models and morphogenesis\". He investigated in particular the mathematical and epistemological aspects concerning the functional structures of (human) perception in its link with intentionality and with reference to the development of the embodiment process. Major attention was devoted to the introduction of the innovative concept of \"self-organizing model\" in order to explain, in mathematical terms, why at the level of life and cognition the function cannot but self-organize together with its meaning. He is the author of 5 volumes (a next volume is at press) and about 118 papers in international scientific journals. He has edited 8 volumes.\n\nIn accordance with Carsetti's main thesis, we have to recognize, pace Immanuel Kant, that, at the level of a biological cognitive system, sensibility is not a simple interface between absolute chance and an invariant intellectual order. On the contrary, the reference procedures, if successful, are able to modulate canalization and create the basis for the appearance of ever-new frames of incompressibility through morphogenesis. This is not a question of discovering and directly exploring (according, for instance, to Hilary Putnam’s conception) new “territories”, but of offering ourselves as the matrix and arch through which they can spring autonomously in accordance with ever increasing levels of complexity. There is no casual autonomous process already in existence, and no possible selection and synthesis activity via a possible “remnant” through reference procedures considered as a form of simple regimentation. These procedures are in actual fact functional to the construction and irruption of new incompressibility: meaning, as Forma formans, offers the possibility of creating a holistic anchorage, and is exactly what allows the categorial apparatus to emerge and act according to a coherent “arborization”. As Carsetti maintains: \"The new invention, which is born then shapes and opens the (new) eyes of the mind: I see as a mind because new meaning is able to articulate and take root through me\" Arturo Carsetti (2012).\nIn other words, at the biological level, what is innate is the result of an evolutionary process and is programmed by natural selection. Natural selection is the coder (once linked to the emergence of meaning): at the same time at the biological level this emergence process is indissolubly correlated to the continuous construction of new formats in accordance with the unfolding of ever new mathematics, a mathematics that necessarily moulds coder’s activity. Hence the necessity of articulating and inventing a mathematics capable of engraving itself in an evolutionary landscape in accordance with the opening up of meaning. In this sense, for instance, the realms of non standard-models and non-standard analysis represent, today, as Carsetti writes: \"...a fruitful perspective in order to point out, in mathematical terms, some of the basic concepts concerning the articulation of an adequate intentional information theory. This individuation, on the other side, presents itself not only as an important theoretical achievement but also as one of the essential bases of our very evolution as intelligent organisms\" \nWith respect to this theoretical mainframe, a classical reflexive domain should be considered, in his view, not as an already-existing structure but as the substratum for the possible composition of its constitutive skeleton with a creative exploration of the (possibly infinite) informational paths related to this very skeleton as they articulate at the higher-order levels. As matter of fact, from a theoretical point of view, a reflexive space is endowed with a non-commutative and non-associative algebraic structure. It is expandable and open to evolution over time as new processes are unfolded and new forms emerge. In a reflexive domain every entity has an eigenform, i.e. fixed points of transformations are present for all transformations of the reflexive domain. According to Heinz von Foerster (1981) and Louis Kauffman (2003) the objects of our experience are the fixed points of operators, these operators are the structure of our perception. The single object is an eigenform . In the process of observation, we necessarily interact with ourselves and with the world to produces stabilities that become objects of our perception. Our perceptual activity, in this sense, is conditioned by the unfolding of the embodiment process and is linked to the cues offered by reflexivity to meaning in action. In the light of these considerations, the pure (classical) reflexive models which are not open to a creative exploration (as it articulates at the second order level) are not able to account for true creativity and real metamorphosis because they do not take into consideration the dialectical pairing of creativity and meaning as well as the emergence processes living at the level of meaning. They do not loosen the knot related to the intricate relationships between invariance and morphogenesis and do not arise in relation to the actual realization of a specific embodiment. Hence the importance of making reference to theoretical tools more complex and variegated as, for instance, non-standard mathematics and complexity theory, in order to provide an adequate basis for the afore mentioned extension.\n\nHence the need for the introduction of precise evolutionary parameters, the very necessity, in general, to bring back the inner articulation of the eigenforms not only to the structures of simple perception but also to those of intentionality. As Carsetti shows making reference to this particular and very simple theoretical “landscape” we can easily realize that the constraints imposed by specific selective pressures (operating in ambient meaning and articulating in accordance with suitable non-standard procedures ) at the level of the dynamics of an original cellular (dissipative) automaton can, actually, permit a more complex canalization of the informational fluxes at stake. In particular, they can allow the unfolding of silent potentialities, the full expression of generative principles never before revealed and, consequently, the effective expression of new autonomous processes of production of varied complexity.\nIn this way, we have the possibility to preserve the deep insights outlined by Gregory Chaitin relative to the mathematical substratum underlying biological evolution. At the same time, we also have the possibility to refer them to the realm of that dialectics between creativity and meaning that allows us not to close ourselves into the enclave of the first-order structures but to range in a much broader realm of functions also featured in accordance with the tools offered by non-standard mathematics. Thus, it will then be possible to take into account some general themes concerning, for instance, the role played, at the level of the development of living beings, by: 1) meaning in action; 2) the computational membranes; 3) those specific processes that determine that particular emergence of ever-new biological structures that distinguishes natural evolution. In a nutshell, we shall have the opportunity to enter, according to a more precise mathematical formalism, the mystery concerning, at the biological level, the stratified and hierarchical development of the differentiation processes.\nAs Carsetti remarks: \"The intentionality belonging to meaning manages, through the brain’s channeling, to rise to the surface of the incarnated coder, constituting itself as membrane able to mirror in itself the coder's nesting by programs. The result is a surfacing \"countenance\" and an extended arborization revealing itself at surface level (in that life traverses it) as a design-web of connections unified by a living intentionality finally expressing itself as true harmony. This harmony is that of signs created by a “hand” which ramifies (as instantiated, for example, by Auguste Rodin in a famous sculpture) to become countenance, a hand that individuates (and perceives) itself, through the operated design, as the combined and productive features of meaning in action. Through the realized arborization meaning reaches the surface-life of pure abstraction and freezes in all its conceptual \"elegance\": membrane-mirror which accommodates and enfolds all things within itself. Hence Endymion enclosed within his lunar dream, the sleeping hero with eyes shipwrecked in the harmony\"\nAt the level of the membrane (or at the level of the visual cortex, for example), a (neural) geometry of the connections is created by means of a specific self-organization process: a neurogeometry that will be to weave itself on the basis of the nourishment offered by the original web of the programs. The reflection-mirroring in the countenance of meaning in action serves to enact a still more profound entrenchment. The cell closes on itself to ensure stability and autonomy, but on the basis of its own growth and self-identification, result will be both selection and evolution, invention and rediscovery. At cell level the \"epistemological\" work and the ongoing reflection play a vital role. As remarked by Henri Atlan at the level of life (and of cognition) the function cannot but self-organize together with its meaning. The cell’s achieved autonomy must, then, necessarily refer to the gradual identifying of an “internal model” marking off (and scanning) within itself the process of selection taking place. In this autonomy we can recognize the early dawn of a consciousness of itself (but mathematically implemented) on behalf of the self-organizing system. As Gregory Chaitin shows. Metabiology cannot avoid dealing with a renewed critical assessment of this mysterious but intrinsically biological phenomenon, a phenomenon that is central to the interests of Carsetti in the field of Philosophy of Mind.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25229078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25229078", "title": "Bacteriophage experimental evolution", "text": "Bacteriophage experimental evolution\n\nExperimental evolution studies are a means of testing evolutionary theory under carefully designed, reproducible experiments. Although theoretically any organism could be used for experimental evolution studies, those with rapid generation times, high mutation rates, large population sizes, and small sizes increase the feasibility of experimental studies in a laboratory context. For these reasons, bacteriophages (i.e. viruses that infect bacteria) are especially favored by experimental evolutionary biologists. Bacteriophages, and microbial organisms, can be frozen in stasis, facilitating comparison of evolved strains to ancestors. Additionally, microbes are especially labile from a molecular biologic perspective. Many molecular tools have been developed to manipulate the genetic material of microbial organisms, and because of their small genome sizes, sequencing the full genomes of evolved strains is trivial. Therefore, comparisons can be made for the exact molecular changes in evolved strains during adaptation to novel conditions.\n\nPhylogenetics is the study of the evolutionary relatedness of organisms. Laboratory phylogenetics is the study of the evolutionary relatedness of laboratory-evolved organisms. An advantage of laboratory phylogenetics is the exact evolutionary history of an organism is known, rather than estimated as is the case for most organisms.\n\nEpistasis is the dependence of the effect of one gene or mutation on the presence of another gene or mutation. Theoretically epistasis can be of three forms: no epistasis (additive inheritance), synergystic (or positive) epistasis and antagonistic (or negative) epistasis. In synergystic epistasis, each additional mutation has increasing negative impact on fitness. In antagonistic epistasis, the effect of each mutation declines with increasing numbers of mutation. Understanding whether the majority of genetic interactions are synergistic or antagonistic will help solve such problems as the evolution of sex.\n\nThe phage literature provides many examples of epistasis which are not studied under the context of experimental evolution nor necessarily described as examples of epistasis.\n\nExperimental adaptation involves selection of organisms either for specific traits or under specific conditions. For example, strains could be evolved under conditions of high temperatures to observe the molecular changes that facilitate survival and reproduction under those conditions.\n\nThe reader should be aware that numerous phage experimental adaptations were performed in the early decades of phage study.\n\nThe older phage literature, e.g., pre-1950s, contains numerous examples of phage adaptations to different hosts.\n\nThe older phage literature, e.g., pre-1950s, also contains examples of phage adaptations to different culture conditions, such as phage T2 adaptation to low salt conditions.\n\nThere are many examples in early phage literature of bacteriophages adapting and compensating for deleterious mutations.\n\nVirulence is the negative impact that a pathogen (or parasite) has on the Darwinian fitness of a harboring organism (host). For phage, virulence results either in reduction of bacterial division rates or, more typically, in the death (via lysis) of individual bacteria. A number of theory papers exist on this subject, especially as it applies to the evolution of phage latent period.\n\nThe older phage literature contains numerous references to phage virulence, and phage virulence evolution. However, the reader should be warned that virulence is often used as a synonym for \"not temperature\", a usage which is neither employed here nor to be encouraged generally.\n\nMore than one phage can coinfect the same bacterial cell. When this happens, the phage can exchange genes, which is equivalent to \"sex.\" Note that a number of the immediately following studies employ sex to overcome Muller's ratchet while papers that demonstrate Muller's ratchet (i.e., without employing sex to overcome the result) are instead presented under that heading.\n\nMuller’s ratchet is the gradual, but irreversible accumulation of deleterious mutations in asexual organisms. Asexual organisms do not undergo gene exchange and therefore can't recreate mutation-free genomes. Chao, 1997, provides a phage-emphasizing review of the subject.\n\nPrisoner's dilemma is a part of game theory which involves two individuals choosing to cooperate or defect, reaping differential rewards. During phage coinfection, it pertains to viruses which produce more protein products than they use (cooperators) and viruses which use more protein products than they produce (defectors).\n\nCoevolution is the study of the evolutionary influence that two species have upon each other. Phage-bacterial coevolution is typically studied within the context of phage community ecology.\n\nBreitbart, M., F. Rohwer, and S. T. Abedon. 2005. Phage ecology and bacterial pathogenesis, p. 66-91. In M. K. Waldor, D. I. Friedman, and S. L. Adhya (eds.), Phages: Their Role in Bacterial Pathogenesis and Biotechnology. ASM Press, Washington DC. \n\nd'Hérelle, F., and G. H. Smith. 1924. Immunity in Natural Infectious Disease. Williams & Wilkins Co., Baltimore.\n\nhttp://en.citizendium.org/wiki/Bacteriophage_experimental_evolution/Bibliography -\n\n\n\nThe phage literature provides many examples of epistasis which are not studied under the context of experimental evolution nor necessarily described as examples of epistasis.\n\n\nThe reader should be aware that numerous phage experimental adaptations were performed in the early decades of phage study.\n\n\n\nThe older phage literature, e.g., pre-1950s, contains numerous examples of phage adaptations to different hosts.\n\n\nThe older phage literature, e.g., pre-1950s, also contains examples of phage adaptations to different culture conditions, such as phage T2 adaptation to low salt conditions.\n\n\n\nThere are many examples in the early phage literature of phage adapting and compensating for deleterious mutations.\n\n\nThe older phage literature contains numerous references to phage virulence, and phage virulence evolution. However, the reader should be warned that virulence is often used as a synonym for \"not temperate\", a usage which is neither employed here nor to be encouraged generally.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44793192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44793192", "title": "Basic linguistic theory", "text": "Basic linguistic theory\n\nBasic linguistic Theory is a term coined by R. M. W. Dixon to describe the theoretical framework and basic concepts that is generally used in grammatical description of languages, and in linguistic typology. \n\nIt is not always considered to be a theory, but is used in so-called \"theory neutral\" language description. Proponents of Basic Linguistic Theory as theory point out that it is a set of concepts and theoretical assumptions that has been accumulated from empirical investigation of the world's languages.\n"}
{"id": "356269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356269", "title": "Charles Francis Adams Sr.", "text": "Charles Francis Adams Sr.\n\nCharles Francis Adams Sr. (August 18, 1807 – November 21, 1886) was an American historical editor, writer, politician, and diplomat. He was a son of President John Quincy Adams and grandson of President John Adams, of whom he wrote a major biography.\n\nAdams served two terms in the Massachusetts State Senate before running unsuccessfully as vice-presidential candidate for the Free Soil Party in the election of 1848 on a ticket with former President Martin Van Buren. During the Civil War Adams served as the United States Minister to the United Kingdom under Abraham Lincoln, where he played a key role in keeping Britain neutral while southern agents were trying to achieve official recognition of the Confederacy. That meant conducting dialogue with both sides and monitoring the British connection in the supply of commerce raiders.\n\nHe became an overseer of Harvard University, and built Adams National Historical Park, a library in honor of his father in Quincy, Massachusetts.\n\nAdams was born in Boston on August 18, 1807. He was one of three sons and a daughter born to John Quincy Adams (1767–1848) and Louisa Catherine Johnson (1775–1852). His older brothers were George Washington Adams (1801–1829) and John Adams II (1803–1834). His sister, Louisa, was born in 1811 but died in 1812 while the family was in Russia.\n\nHe attended Boston Latin School and Harvard College, where he graduated in 1825. He then studied law with Daniel Webster and practiced in Boston. He wrote numerous reviews of works about American and British history for the \"North American Review\".\n\nCharles and his brothers, John and George, were all rivals for the same woman, their cousin Mary Catherine Hellen, who lived with the Adams family after the death of her parents. In 1828, his brother John married Mary Hellen in a ceremony at the White House, and both Charles and George declined to attend.\n\nIn 1840, Adams was elected to three one-year terms in the Massachusetts House of Representatives and he served in the Massachusetts Senate from 1843 to 1845. In 1846, he purchased and became editor of the \"Boston Whig\" newspaper. In 1848, he was the unsuccessful nominee of the Free Soil Party for Vice President of the United States, running on a ticket with former president Martin Van Buren as the presidential nominee.\n\nFrom the 1840s, Adams became one of the finest historical editors of his era. He developed his expertise in part because of the example of his father, who in 1829 had turned from politics (after his defeated bid for a second presidential term in 1828) to history and biography. The senior Adams began a life of his father, John Adams, but wrote only a few chapters before resuming his political career in 1830 with his election to the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nThe younger Adams, fresh from his edition of the letters of his grandmother Abigail Adams, took up the project that his father had left uncompleted and between 1850 and 1856, turned out not just the two volumes of the biography but eight further volumes presenting editions of John Adams's \"Diary and Autobiography\", his major political writings, and a selection of letters and speeches. The edition, titled \"The Works of John Adams, Esq., Second President of the United States\", was the only edition of John Adams's writings until the family donated the cache of Adams papers to the Massachusetts Historical Society in 1954 and authorized the creation of the Adams Papers project; the modern project had published accurate scholarly editions of John Adams's diary and autobiography, several volumes of Adams family correspondence, two volumes on the portraits of John and Abigail Adams and John Quincy and Louisa Catherine Adams, and the early years of the diary of Charles Francis Adams, who published a revised edition of the biography in 1871. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1857.\n\nAs a Republican, Adams was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1858, where he chaired the Committee on Manufactures. He was re-elected in 1860, but resigned to become U.S. minister (ambassador) to the Court of St James's (Britain), a post previously held by his father and grandfather, from 1861 to 1868. Powerful Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner had wanted the position and became alienated from Adams. Britain had already recognized Confederate belligerency, but Adams was instrumental in maintaining British neutrality and preventing British diplomatic recognition of the Confederacy during the American Civil War. Part of his duties included correspondence with British civilians including Karl Marx and the International Workingmen's Association. Adams and his son, Henry Adams, who acted as his private secretary, also were kept busy monitoring Confederate diplomatic intrigues and the construction of rebel commerce raiders by British shipyards (like the \"hull N°290\", launched as \"Enrica\" from Liverpool but which was soon transformed near the Azores Islands into sloop-of-war CSS \"Alabama\").\n\nBack in Boston, Adams declined the presidency of Harvard University but became one of its overseers in 1869. In 1870 he built the first presidential library in the United States to honor his father John Quincy Adams. The Stone Library includes over 14,000 books written in twelve languages. The library is located on the property of the \"Old House\" (also known as \"Peacefield\") at Adams National Historical Park in Quincy, Massachusetts.\n\nAdams served as U.S. arbiter on the 1871–72 international commission to settle the \"Alabama\" claims that met in Geneva. He is considered one of the main contributors on this seminal work in forwarding the concept of world law through arbitration.\n\nDuring the 1876 electoral college controversy, Adams sided with Democrat Samuel J. Tilden over Republican Rutherford B. Hayes for the presidency.\n\nIn 1876 he also ran for Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.\n\nOn September 3, 1829, he married Abigail Brown Brooks (1808–1889), whose father was shipping magnate Peter Chardon Brooks (1767–1849). She had two sisters, Charlotte, who was married to Edward Everett, a Massachusetts politician, and Ann, who was married to Nathaniel Frothingham, a Unitarian minister. Together, they were the parents of:\n\n\nAdams died in Boston on November 21, 1886, and was interred in Mount Wollaston Cemetery, Quincy. He was the last surviving child of John Quincy Adams.\n\nHis wife Abigail's \"health and spirits\" worsened after her husband's death, and she died at Peacefield on June 6, 1889.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28887813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28887813", "title": "Chess aesthetics", "text": "Chess aesthetics\n\nChess aesthetics or beauty in chess is generally appreciated by both players and composers. This is evident, for example, in awarded to some games in certain tournaments and also in the world of chess composition. There are many books published featuring chess problems or puzzles that emphasize its aesthetic aspect. One of the earliest is from the 9th century AD. Aesthetics in chess can be both a source of pleasure for humans and also instruction, as compositions or games featuring it typically illustrate original ideas or new instantiations of old ones. A good chess problem composer, however, is not necessarily a good player.\n\nFactors about a game or move sequence (also referred to as a \"combination\") that might cause it to be regarded as 'brilliant' by most players include, among other things: expediency, disguise, sacrifice, correctness, preparation, paradox, unity and originality.\n\n\nComposition conventions such as not having any checks or in the first (i.e. key) move, and the use of variations to illustrate a particular theme (e.g. zugzwang, pin), also play a role in the aesthetics of the game.\n\nConceptually, a 'common ground' of aesthetics between the domains of real (e.g. tournament) games and compositions can be established. These are beauty characteristics that apply approximately equally to both domains; examples include heuristic violations, economy and material sacrifice. This common ground is useful in computational models of aesthetics in the game because it helps in experiments comparing the beauty of compositions (on average, considered more beautiful) against the beauty of real games (on average, considered less beautiful). Some factors that pertain solely to real games (e.g. pressure under time control) or compositions (e.g. avoidance of castling moves) may be conflated with \"aesthetics\" in the game—and perhaps to some degree this is justifiable; however, they would lie outside the common ground described above.\n\n"}
{"id": "1333915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1333915", "title": "Dainin Katagiri", "text": "Dainin Katagiri\n\nJikai , also known as Hojo-san Katagiri, was a Sōtō Zen roshi and the founding abbot of Minnesota Zen Meditation Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he served from 1972 until his death from cancer in 1990. Before becoming first abbot of the Minnesota Zen Meditation Center, Katagiri had worked at the Zenshuji Soto Zen Mission in Los Angeles and had also been of great service to Shunryu Suzuki at the San Francisco Zen Center, particularly from 1969 until Suzuki's death in 1971. Katagiri was important in helping bring Zen Buddhism from Japan to the United States during its formative years—especially to the American Midwest. He is also the credited author of several books compiled from his talks.\n\nDainin Katagiri was born in Osaka, Japan on January 19, 1928. He was ordained a monk by and named a Dharma heir of Daicho Hayashi at Taizo-in in Fukui, and went on to study under Eko Hashimoto at Eiheiji for three years. After Eiheiji Katagiri enrolled at Komazawa University—the renowned Sōtō institution in Tokyo, Japan—majoring in Buddhist studies. In 1963 Katagiri was sent by the Soto Headquarters Office in Japan to Los Angeles, California to serve as a priest at the Zenshuji Soto Zen Mission. In 1965 he was sent to the Sokoji Soto Zen Mission in San Francisco, California to assist Shunryu Suzuki and later helped out the San Francisco Zen Center (SFZC), which had shared the same building as Sokoji until 1969; Katagiri was of great help to Shunryu Suzuki, especially from 1969 onward. [Great help at the SFZC from the day he came around April 1964.- DC] During his years in San Francisco, Katagiri sometimes toyed with the idea of opening up his own Zen community nearby. So, not long before Suzuki's death, he did open a zendo in his home in Monterey, California.\n\nIn 1972 Katagiri relocated to Minneapolis, near Lake Calhoun. There he became abbot of a small group without a leader, which became known as the Minnesota Zen Meditation Center (Ganshoji). There he also founded Hokyoji Zen Practice Community (Catching the Moon Zen Mountain Center), a country retreat temple in southeast Minnesota. A factor in deciding to go to Minnesota had been the fact that few, if any, Buddhist teachers were located there. Katagiri understood that the majority of teachers at this time were either in New York or California, with much of the country in-between left in need of teachers. During the 1970s and 1980s Katagiri sent over many of his Western students to train at Zuio-ji in Japan, where Narasaki Ikko roshi was abbot. In 1984, in the wake of the Zentatsu Richard Baker controversy resulting in Baker's resignation as abbot of San Francisco Zen Center, Katagiri came at the request of SFZC and served as abbot there on an interim basis until 1985 (returning to Minnesota afterward). He remained there for the remainder of his life, succumbing finally to cancer on March 1, 1990; he left behind thirteen Dharma heirs.\n\nKatagiri was married to Tomoe Katagiri, and the couple had two sons together (Yasuhiko and Ejyo). They married in 1960.\n\nSoto priest and former student of Katagiri-Roshi, Zuiko Redding, has stated, \"My basic memory of Katagiri is of how he paid total attention to what was in front of him. He took care of each thing as if it were the most important thing in the world, whether it was throwing away some trash or talking to another person. He really listened and tried to give the best answer he knew how to give. He also encouraged each of us to stand up in our own space, following our own wisdom rather than depending on him for answers or affirmation. I would sometimes tell him exactly what I thought about some idea he had, only to turn and see him smiling broadly at me, glad that I wasn’t buying into his agenda.\"\n\nFollowing his death, it was rumored that Katagiri roshi had engaged in sexual relationships with some female students. These rumors have gained a higher profile since one of Katagiri's students, author Natalie Goldberg, wrote about her reaction to these claims.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24733365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24733365", "title": "Double truth", "text": "Double truth\n\nDouble-truth theory is the view that religion and philosophy, as separate sources of knowledge, might arrive at contradictory truths without detriment to either.\n\nIn medieval Europe, the Church was specifically opposed to \"Latin Averroists\" (see Averroës), such as the prominent Averroist Siger of Brabant. It sought to halt the spread of certain of Aristotle's doctrines — those that dealt with physical science (see Aristotelian physics, Condemnations of 1210-1277), which the reconquest of Spain and, accordingly, access to the libraries of the Moors had re-introduced into the Latin literate world.\n\nAt the time, much of the theology of the Roman Catholic Church was influenced by Neoplatonic ideas, and Aristotelianism struck many as heretical. Siger and others seem to have conceded this, and to have used the sharp reason/faith distinction that came to be known as \"double truth\" as a way of legitimizing discussion of Aristotle despite that concession. The teachings of Aristotle came to be accepted as second only to the teachings of the Church. Thomas Aquinas, in his \"Summa Theologica\" (1267–73), rejected Neoplatonism and stated that there can be no conflict between reason and faith.\n\nQuestions remained, and again came to the fore when scientists such as Copernicus made discoveries which seemed to contradict scripture. The doctrine of \"double truth\" was revived by the scholastics under the rubric \"two truths\". Thus, according to the scholastics, there was a lesser truth, that the Earth circled the Sun, as Copernicus said, and a greater truth, that when Joshua fought at Jericho it was the Sun, not the Earth, which stood still. The scholastics held that both \"truths\" were true in their own sphere.\n\nFrancis Bacon exemplifies this concept in his book \"The Advancement of Learning\" arguing that the fact that revelation was contrary to reason is what gave value to faith.\n"}
{"id": "36897200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36897200", "title": "Environmental stewardship", "text": "Environmental stewardship\n\nEnvironmental stewardship refers to responsible use and protection of the natural environment through conservation and sustainable practices. Aldo Leopold (1887–1949) championed environmental stewardship based on a land ethic \"dealing with man's relation to land and to the animals and plants which grow upon it.\"\n\nResilience-Based Ecosystem Stewardship emphasizes resilience as a basic feature of the changing world as well as ecosystems that provide a suite of ecosystem services rather than a single resource, and stewardship that recognizes resource managers as an integral part of the systems they manage. Resilience refers to the ability of a system to absorb disturbance and still maintain its basic function and structure.\n\nOne author suggests that there are 3 types of environmental stewards: doers, donors, and practitioners. Doers go out and help the cause by taking action. For example, the doers in an oil spill would be the volunteers that go along the beach and help clean up the oil from the beaches. A donor is the person that financially helps the cause. They can do anything from donating their money, to hosting public events to raise funds. They are typically governmental agencies. Lastly there are practitioners. They work on a day-to-day basis to steer governmental agencies, scientists, stakeholder groups, or any other group toward a stewardship outcome. Together these 3 groups make up environmental stewards and with the help keep the ecosystem running healthily. Anybody can be an environmental steward by being aware and knowledgeable of the world around them and making sure they do as little as possible to negatively impact our world. Without these groups it would be hard to get any sort of sustainability in our increasingly industrially based world. \n\n"}
{"id": "23257036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23257036", "title": "Environmental virtue ethics", "text": "Environmental virtue ethics\n\nEnvironmental virtue ethics (EVE) is, as the name suggests, a way of approaching environmental ethics through the lens of virtue ethics. It is paradoxically both a very new and a relatively old or established approach. It is old or established because, as Louke Van Wensveen points out, almost all environmental literature employs virtue language. It is new because it is only recently that this tendency to use virtue-laden language has been taken up explicitly and addressed through the lens of philosophical virtue ethics.\n\nEarly interest in applying virtue theory to environmental problems can be found in disparate articles in academic and environmental journals, such as Thomas Hill's \"Ideals of Human Excellence and Preserving Natural Environments.\" The first major analysis of this approach is Louke Van Wensveen’s influential book \"Dirty Virtues: The Emergence of Ecological Virtue Ethics\".\n\nEnvironmental virtue ethicists take inspiration for a variety of schools of virtue ethics and from diverse backgrounds in environmental ethics. Nevertheless, there are three general approaches to identifying virtues and vices within EVE. First, the \"virtue theory approach,\" which attempts to build an environmental virtue ethics from the ground up. Second, the \"environmental exemplar approach,\" which looks to people who are generally considered to be environmentally virtuous as models. And, finally, the \"extensionist approach,\" which takes traditional virtues and extends them to operate in an environmentally meaningful way. While some authors take one of these approaches, others combine elements from two or more. \n\nTypical EVE topics include: the explication of specific virtues or vices; the analysis of specific exemplars who embody one or more of the virtues; the attempt to weigh in on specific environmental problems from the perspective of virtue ethics, including offering rules (“v-rules”) for conduct or making actual policy recommendations; and, of course, arguing for the theoretical foundation and legitimacy of the virtue-theory approach to environmental ethics. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19218437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19218437", "title": "Eureka effect", "text": "Eureka effect\n\nThe eureka effect (also known as the Aha! moment or eureka moment) refers to the common human experience of suddenly understanding a previously incomprehensible problem or concept. Some research describes the Aha! effect (also known as insight or epiphany) as a memory advantage, but conflicting results exist as to where exactly it occurs in the brain, and it is difficult to predict under what circumstances one can predict an Aha! moment.\n\nInsight is a psychological term that attempts to describe the process in problem solving when a previously unsolvable puzzle becomes suddenly clear and obvious. Often this transition from not understanding to spontaneous comprehension is accompanied by an exclamation of joy or satisfaction, an Aha! moment. A person utilizing insight to solve a problem is able to give accurate, discrete, all-or-nothing type responses, whereas individuals not using the insight process are more likely to produce partial, incomplete responses.\n\nA recent theoretical account of the Aha! moment started with four defining attributes of this experience. First, the Aha! moment appears suddenly; second, the solution to a problem can be processed smoothly, or fluently; third, the Aha! moment elicits positive affect; fourth, a person experiencing the Aha! moment is convinced that a solution is true. These four attributes are not separate but can be combined because the experience of processing fluency, especially when it occurs surprisingly (for example, because it is sudden), elicits both positive affect and judged truth.\n\nInsight can be conceptualized as a two phase process. The first phase of an Aha! experience requires the problem solver to come upon an impasse, where they become stuck and even though they may seemingly have explored all the possibilities, are still unable to retrieve or generate a solution. The second phase occurs suddenly and unexpectedly. After a break in mental fixation or re-evaluating the problem, the answer is retrieved. Some research suggest that insight problems are difficult to solve because of our mental fixation on the inappropriate aspects of the problem content. In order to solve insight problems, one must \"think outside the box\". It is this elaborate rehearsal that may cause people to have better memory for Aha! moments. Insight is believed to occur with a break in mental fixation, allowing the solution to appear transparent and obvious.\n\nThe effect is named from a story about the ancient Greek polymath Archimedes. In the story, Archimedes was asked (c. 250 BC) by the local king to determine whether a crown was pure gold. During a subsequent trip to a public bath, Archimedes noted that water was displaced when his body sank into the bath, and particularly that the volume of water displaced equaled the volume of his body immersed in the water. Having discovered how to measure the volume of an irregular object, and conceiving of a method to solve the king's problem, Archimedes allegedly leaped out and ran home naked, shouting \"eureka\" (I have found it). This story is now thought to be fictional, because it was first mentioned by the Roman writer Vitruvius nearly 200 years after the date of the alleged event, and because the method described by Vitruvius would not have worked. However, Archimedes certainly did important, original work in hydrostatics, notably in his \"On Floating Bodies\".\n\nResearch on the Aha! moment dates back more than 100 years, to the Gestalt psychologists' first experiments on chimpanzee cognition. In his 1921 book, Wolfgang Köhler described the first instance of insightful thinking in animals: One of his chimpanzees, Sultan, was presented with the task of reaching a banana that had been strung up high on the ceiling so that it was impossible to reach by jumping. After several failed attempts to reach the banana, Sultan sulked in the corner for a while, then suddenly jumped up and stacked a few boxes upon each other, climbed them and thus was able to grab the banana. This observation was interpreted as insightful thinking. Köhler's work was continued by Karl Duncker and Max Wertheimer.\n\nThe Eureka effect was later also described by Pamela Auble, Jeffrey Franks and Salvatore Soraci in 1979. The subject would be presented with an initially confusing sentence such as \"The haystack was important because the cloth ripped\". After a certain period of time of non-comprehension by the reader, the cue word (parachute) would be presented, the reader could comprehend the sentence, and this resulted in better recall on memory tests. Subjects spend a considerable amount of time attempting to solve the problem, and initially it was hypothesized that elaboration towards comprehension may play a role in increased recall. There was no evidence that elaboration had any effect for recall. It was found that both \"easy\" and \"hard\" sentences that resulted in an Aha! effect had significantly better recall rates than sentences that subjects were able to comprehend immediately. In fact equal recall rates were obtained for both \"easy\" and \"hard\" sentences which were initially noncomprehensible. It seems to be this noncomprehension to comprehension which results in better recall. The essence of the aha feeling underling insight problem solving was systemically empirically investigated by Danek et al. and Shen and his colleagues.\n\nCurrently there are two theories for how people arrive at the solution for insight problems. The first is the progress monitoring theory. The person will analyze the distance from their current state to the goal state. Once a person realizes that they cannot solve the problem while on their current path, they will seek alternative solutions. In insight problems this usually occurs late in the puzzle. The second way that people attempt to solve these puzzles is the representational change theory. The problem solver initially has a low probability for success because they use inappropriate knowledge as they set unnecessary constraints on the problem. Once the person relaxes his or her constraints, they can bring previously unavailable knowledge into working memory to solve the problem. The person also utilizes chunk decomposition, where he or she will separate meaningful chunks into their component pieces. Both constraint relaxation and chunk decomposition allow for a change in representation, that is, a change in the distribution of activation across working memory, at which point they may exclaim, \"Aha!\" Currently both theories have support, with the progress monitoring theory being more suited to multiple step problems, and the representational change theory more suited to single step problems.\n\nThe Eureka effect on memory occurs only when there is an initial confusion. When subjects were presented with a clue word before the confusing sentence was presented, there was no effect on recall. If the clue was provided after the sentence was presented, an increase in recall occurred.\n\nIt had been determined that recall is greater for items that were generated by the subject versus if the subject was presented with the stimuli. There seems to be a memory advantage for instances where people are able to produce an answer themselves, recall was higher when Aha! reactions occurred. They tested sentences that were initially hard to understand, but when presented with a cued word, the comprehension became more apparent. Other evidence was found indicating that effort in processing visual stimuli was recalled more frequently than the stimuli that were simply presented. This study was done using connect-the-dots or verbal instruction to produce either a nonsense or real image. It is believed that effort made to comprehend something when encoding induces activation of alternative cues that later participate in recall.\n\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalogram studies have found that problem solving requiring insight involves increased activity in the right cerebral hemisphere as compared with problem solving not requiring insight. In particular, increased activity was found in the right hemisphere anterior superior temporal gyrus.\n\nSome unconscious processing may take place while a person is asleep, and there are several cases of scientific discoveries coming to people in their dreams. Friedrich August Kekulé von Stradonitz said that the ring structure of benzene came to him in a dream where a snake was eating its own tail. Studies have shown increased performance at insight problems if the subjects slept during a break between receiving the problem and solving it. Sleep may function to restructure problems, and allow new insights to be reached. Henri Poincaré stated that he valued sleep as a time for \"unconscious thought\" that helped him break through problems.\n\nProfessor Stellan Ohlsson believes that at the beginning of the problem-solving process, some salient features of the problem are incorporated into a mental representation of the problem. In the first step of solving the problem, it is considered in the light of previous experience. Eventually, an impasse is reached, where all approaches to the problem have failed, and the person becomes frustrated. Ohlsson believes that this impasse drives unconscious processes which change the mental representation of a problem, and cause novel solutions to occur.\n\nWhen studying insight, or the Aha! effect, ERP or EEG general methods are used. Initially a baseline measurement is taken, which generally asks the subject to simply remember an answer to a question. Following this, subjects are asked to focus on the screen while a logogriph is shown, and then they are given time with a blank screen to get the answer, once they do they are required to press a key. After which the answer appears on the screen. The subjects are then asked to press one key to indicate that they thought of the correct answer and another to indicate if they got the answer wrong, finally, not to press a key at all if they were unsure or did not know the answer.\n\nResting-state neural activity has a standing influence on cognitive strategies used when solving problems, particularly in the case of deriving solutions by methodical search or by sudden insight. The two cognitive strategies used involve both search and analysis of current state of a problem, to the goal state of that problem, while insight problems are a sudden awareness of the solution to a problem.\n\nSubjects studied were first recorded on the base-line resting state of thinking. After being tested using the method described in the General Procedure for Conducting ERP and EEG Studies, the ratio of insight versus non-insight solution were made to determine whether an individual is classified as a high insight (HI) or a low insight (LI) individual. Discriminating between HI and LI individuals were important as both groups use different cognitive strategies to solve anagram problems used in this study. Right hemisphere activation is believed to be involved in Aha! effects, so it comes as no surprise that HI individuals would show greater activation in the right hemisphere than the left hemisphere when compared to the LI individuals. Evidence was found to support this idea, there was greater activation in HI subjects at the right dorsal-frontal (low-alpha band), right inferior-frontal (beta and gamma bands) and the right parietal (gamma band) areas. As for LI subjects, left inferior-frontal and left anterior-temporal areas were active (low-alpha band).\n\nThere were also differences in attention between individuals of HI and LI. It has been suggested that individuals who are highly creative exhibit diffuse attention, thus allowing them a greater range of environmental stimuli. It was found that individuals who displayed HI would have less resting state occipital alpha-band activity, meaning there would be less inhibition of the visual system. Individuals that were less creative were found to focus their attention, thus causing them to sample less of their environment. Although, LI individuals were shown to have more occipital beta activity, consistent with heightened focused attention.\n\nThese results are more reflective of models, rather than empirical evidence, as source localization is hard to determine precisely.\nDue to the nature of these studies that use Chinese logographs, there is a difficulty in an exact translation; a language barrier certainly exists.\nThere are some difficulties that exist in brain imaging when it comes to insight, thus making it hard to discuss neural mechanisms. Issues include: that insight occurs when an unwarranted mental fixation is broken and when novel task related associations are formed on top of old cognitive skills.\n\nOne theory discussed found that \"Aha\" answers produced more negative ERP results, N380 in the ACC, than the \"No-Aha\" answers, 250–500 ms, after an answer was produced. The authors suspected that this N380 in the ACC, which plays the role of a warning sign of breaking the mental set, was a reflection of the Aha! effect. Another study was done showed that an Aha! effect was elicited at N320 which has a strong activation in the central-posterior region. These previous studies reflective the premise of the study, that the Aha! effect occurs in the anterior cingulate cortex, while this study finds results indicating the posterior cingulate cortex is responsible. It was found that there was a N350 in the posterior cingulate cortex for successful guessing of logographs, not in the anterior cingulate cortex. The posterior cingulate cortex seems to play a more non-executive function in monitoring and inhibiting the mind set and cognitive function.\n\nAnother significant finding of this study done by Qiu and Zhang (2008), was a late positive component (LPC) in successful guessing of the logograph and then recognition of the answer at 600 and 700 ms, post-stimulus, in the parahippocampal gyrus (BA34). The data suggests that the parahippocampus is involved in searching of a correct answer by manipulating it in working memory, and integrating relationships between the base of the target logograph. The parahippocampal gyrus may reflect the formation of novel associations while solving insight problem.\n\nAnother ERP study is fairly similar to the Qiu and Zhang, 2008 study, however, this study claims to have anterior cingulate cortex activation at N380, which may be responsible for the mediation of breaking the mental set. Other areas of interest were prefrontal cortex (PFC), the posterior parietal cortex, and the medial temporal lobe. If subjects failed to solve the riddle, and then were shown the correct answer, they displayed the feeling of insight, which reflected the electroencephalogram recordings.\n\nOverall, it is quite apparent that there are many aspects that can explain the Aha! effect. No particular area has been determined but from the information gathered, it seems that insight occurs in many parts of the brain, within a given time period.\n\nA study with the goal of recording the activity that occurs in the brain during an Aha! moment using fMRIs was conducted in 2003 by Jing Luo and Kazuhisa Niki. Participants in this study were presented with a series of Japanese riddles, and asked to rate their impressions toward each question using the following scale: (1) I can understand this question very well and know the answer; (2) I can understand this question very well and feel it is interesting, but I do not know the answer; or (3) I cannot understand this question and do not know the answer.\nThis scale allowed the researchers to only look at participants who would experience an Aha! moment upon viewing the answer to the riddle. In previous studies on insight, researchers have found that participants reported feelings of insight when they viewed the answer to an unsolved riddle or problem.\nLuo and Niki had the goal of recording these feelings of insight in their participants using fMRIs. This method allowed the researchers to directly observe the activity that was occurring in the participant's brains during an Aha! moment.\n\nParticipants were given 3 minutes to respond to each riddle, before the answer to the riddle was revealed. If the participant experienced an Aha! moment upon viewing the correct answer, any brain activity would be recorded on the fMRI.\nThe fMRI results for this study showed that when participants were given the answer to an unsolved riddle, the activity in their right hippocampus increased significantly during these Aha! moments. This increased activity in the right hippocampus may be attributed to the formation of new associations between old nodes. These new associations will in turn strengthen memory for the riddles and their solutions.\n\nAlthough various studies using EEGs, ERPs, and fMRI's report activation in a variety of areas in the brain during Aha! moments, this activity occurs predominantly in the right hemisphere. More details on the neural basis of insight see a recent review named \"New advances in the neural correlates of insight: A decade in review of the insightful brain\"\n\nThe Nine Dot Problem is a classic spatial problem used by psychologists to study insight.\nThe problem consists of a 3 × 3 square created by 9 black dots. The task is to connect all 9 dots using exactly 4 straight lines, without retracing or removing one's pen from the paper. Kershaw & Ohlsson report that in a laboratory setting with a time limit of 2 or 3 minutes, the expected solution rate is 0%.\n\nThe difficulty with the Nine Dot Problem is that it requires respondents to look beyond the conventional figure-ground relationships that create subtle, illusory spatial constraints and (literally) \"think outside of the box\". Breaking the spatial constraints shows a shift in attention in working memory and utilizing new knowledge factors to solve the puzzle.\n\nVerbal riddles are becoming popular problems in insight research.\n\nExample: \"A man was washing windows on a high-rise building when he fell from the 40-foot ladder to the concrete path below. Amazingly, he was unhurt. Why? [Answer] He slipped from the bottom rung!\"\n\nMatchstick arithmetic, which was developed and used by G. Knoblich, involves matchsticks that are arranged to show a simple but incorrect math equation in Roman numerals. The task is to correct the equation by moving only one matchstick.\n\nAnagrams involve manipulating the order of a given set of letters in order to create one or many words. The original set of letters may be a word itself, or simply a jumble.\n\nExample: \"Santa\" can be transformed to spell \"Satan\".\n\nRebus puzzles, also called \"wordies\", involve verbal and visual cues that force the respondent to restructure and \"read between the lines\" (almost literally) to solve the puzzle.\n\nSome examples:\n i i i \n[\"Answer: circles under the eyes\"]\n\nThe Remote Associates Test (known as the RAT) was developed by Martha Mednick in 1962 to test creativity. However, it has recently been utilized in insight research.\n\nThe test consists of presenting participants with a set of words, such as \"lick\", \"mine\", and \"shaker\". The task is to identify the word that connects these three seemingly unrelated ones. In this example, the answer is \"salt\". The link between words is associative, and does not follow rules of logic, concept formation or problem solving, and thus requires the respondent to work outside of these common heuristical constraints.\n\nPerformance on the RAT is known to correlate with performance on other standard insight problems.\n\nIn this problem a set of 8 coins is arranged on a table in a certain configuration, and the subject is told to move 2 coins so that all coins touch exactly three others. The difficulty in this problem comes from thinking of the problem in a purely 2-dimensional way, when a 3-dimensional approach is the only way to solve the problem.\n\nInsight research is problematic because of the ambiguity and lack of agreement among psychologists of its definition. This could largely be explained by the phenomenological nature of insight, and the difficulty in catalyzing its occurrence, as well as the ways in which it is experimentally \"triggered\".\n\nThe pool of insight problems currently employed by psychologists is small and tepid, and due to its heterogeneity and often high difficulty level, is not conducive of validity or reliability.\n\nOne of the biggest issues surrounding insight problems is that for most participants, they're simply too difficult. For many problems, this difficulty revolves around the requisite restructuring or re-conceptualization of the problem or possible solutions, for example, drawing lines beyond the square composed of dots in the Nine-Dot Problem.\n\nFurthermore, there are issues related to the taxonomy of insight problems. Puzzles and problems that are utilized in experiments to elicit insight may be classified in two ways. \"Pure\" insight problems are those that necessitate the use of insight, whereas \"hybrid\" insight problems are those that can be solved by other methods, such as the trial and error. As Weisberg (1996) points out, the existence of hybrid problems in insight research poses a significant threat to any evidence gleaned from studies that employ them. While the phenomenological experience of insight can help to differentiate insight-solving from non-insight solving (by asking the respondent to describe how they solved the problem, for example), the risk that non-insight solving has been mistaken for insight solving still exists. Likewise, issues surrounding the validity of insight evidence is also threatened by the characteristically small sample sizes. Experimenters may recruit an initially adequate sample size, but because of the level of difficulty inherent to insight problems, only a small fraction of any sample will successfully solve the puzzle or task given to them; placing serious limits on usable data. In the case of studies using hybrid problems, the final sample is at even greater risk of being very small by way of having to exclude whatever percentage of respondents solved their given puzzle without utilizing insight.\n\nThere are several examples of scientific discoveries being made after a sudden flash of insight. One of the key insights in developing his special theory of relativity came to Albert Einstein while talking to his friend Michele Besso:\n\nHowever, Einstein has said that the whole idea of special relativity did not come to him as a sudden, single eureka moment, and that he was \"led to it by steps arising from the individual laws derived from experience\". Similarly, Carl Friedrich Gauss said after a eureka moment: \"I have the result, only I do not yet know how to get to it.\"\nSir Alec Jeffreys had a eureka moment in his lab in Leicester after looking at the X-ray film image of a DNA experiment at 9:05 am on Monday 10 September 1984, which unexpectedly showed both similarities and differences between the DNA of different members of his technician's family. Within about half an hour, he realized the scope of DNA profiling, which uses variations in the genetic code to identify individuals. The method has become important in forensic science to assist detective work, and in resolving paternity and immigration disputes. It can also be applied to non-human species, such as in wildlife population genetics studies. Before his methods were commercialised in 1987, Jeffreys' laboratory was the only centre carrying out DNA fingerprinting in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170919", "title": "Evert Willem Beth", "text": "Evert Willem Beth\n\nEvert Willem Beth (7 July 1908 – 12 April 1964) was a Dutch philosopher and logician, whose work principally concerned the foundations of mathematics. He was a member of the Significs Group.\n\nBeth was born in Almelo, a small town in the eastern Netherlands. His father had studied mathematics and physics at the University of Amsterdam, where he had been awarded a Ph.D. Evert Beth studied the same subjects at Utrecht University, but then also studied philosophy and psychology. His 1935 Ph.D. was in philosophy.\n\nIn 1946, he became professor of logic and the foundations of mathematics in Amsterdam. Apart from two brief interruptions – a stint in 1951 as a research assistant to Alfred Tarski, and in 1957 as a visiting professor at Johns Hopkins University – he held the post in Amsterdam continuously until his death in 1964. His was the first academic post in his country in logic and the foundations of mathematics, and during this time he contributed actively to international cooperation in establishing logic as an academic discipline.\n\nIn 1953 he became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nHe died in Amsterdam.\n\nThe definition theorem states that a predicate (or function or constant) is implicitly definable if and only if it is explicitly definable. Further explanation is provided under Beth definability\n\nSemantic tableaux are a proof method for formal systems — cf. Gentzen's natural deduction and sequent calculus, or even J. Alan Robinson's resolution and Hilbert's axiomatic systems. It is considered by many to be intuitively simple, particularly for students not acquainted with the study of logic (Wilfrid Hodges for example presents semantic tableaux in his introductory textbook, \"Logic\", and Melvin Fitting does the same in his presentation of first-order logic for computer scientists, \"First-order logic and automated theorem proving\").\n\nOne starts out with the intention of proving that a certain set formula_1 of formulae imply another formula formula_2, given a set of rules determined by the semantics of the formulae's connectives (and quantifiers, in first-order logic). The method is to assume the concurrent truth of every member of formula_1 and of formula_4 (the negation of formula_2), and then to apply the rules to branch this list into a tree-like structure of (simpler) formulae until every possible branch contains a contradiction. At this point it will have been established that formula_6 is inconsistent, and thus that the formulae of formula_7 together imply formula_8.\n\nThese are a class of relational models for non-classical logic (cf. Kripke semantics).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34540819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34540819", "title": "Freud and Philosophy", "text": "Freud and Philosophy\n\nFreud and Philosophy: An Essay on Interpretation () is a 1965 book about Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis, by the philosopher Paul Ricœur, in which the author interprets Freud's work in terms of hermeneutics, which he defines as the theory of the rules that govern the interpretation of a particular text.\n\nThe book has been compared to the philosopher Herbert Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\" (1955), the sociologist Philip Rieff's \"\" (1959), and the philosopher Jürgen Habermas's \"Knowledge and Human Interests\" (1968). It was well received in France, but also received criticism there because phenomenology had become unfashionable by 1965. The work angered the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan, who spread the rumor that Ricœur had plagiarized his ideas, and Lacan's followers attacked Ricœur. Ricœur's interpretation of Freud has been criticized by the philosopher Adolf Grünbaum in \"The Foundations of Psychoanalysis\" (1984).\n\nAccording to Ricœur, \"Freud and Philosophy\" originated in the Terry Lectures given at Yale University in 1961, and was also developed by lectures given at the Cardinal Mercier Chair at the University of Louvain in 1962.\n\nRicœur explains that his subject is Freud rather than psychoanalysis, and that he therefore not discuss \"the post-Freudian schools\". He argues that ignoring them is justified because doing so would have diverted his work from its purpose of \"debate with the true founder of psychoanalysis.\" He stresses that the book is a work of philosophy and not a work of psychology, and compares his enterprise to that of the philosopher Roland Dalbiez in \"La Méthode psychanalytique et la doctrine freudienne\" (1936), the philosopher Herbert Marcuse in \"Eros and Civilization\" (1955), the sociologist Philip Rieff in \"Freud: The Mind of the Moralist\" (1959), and the psychoanalyst John Flügel in \"Man, Morals and Society\" (1945). He identifies the main purposes of the book as being explaining the \"epistemological problem\" of the nature of \"interpretation in psychoanalysis\", the \"problem of reflective philosophy\" of showing what \"new self-understanding comes out of this interpretation\", and the \"dialectical problem\" of asking, \"Does Freud's interpretation of culture exclude all others?\" He presents \"Freud and Philosophy\" as in part a continuation of his previous work \"The Symbolism of Evil\" (1960), explaining that it further explored an issue it had left unresolved, \"the relationship between a hermeneutics of symbols and a philosophy of concrete reflection.\"\n\nExplaining his decision to write the book, he identifies the importance of language as a key feature of phenomenology and other schools of philosophy, as well as of psychoanalysis and other disciplines. He attempts to explore the connections between the disciplines concerned with language, arguing that psychoanalysts should be leading participants in a general discussion of language. He discusses works of Freud such as \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (1899), \"Jokes and Their Relation to the Unconscious\" (1905), \"Delusion and Dream in Jensen's Gradiva\" (1907), Creative Writers and Day-Dreaming (1907), \"Leonardo da Vinci, A Memory of His Childhood\" (1910), \"Totem and Taboo\" (1913), \"Thoughts for the Times on War and Death\" (1915), \"Beyond the Pleasure Principle\" (1920), \"Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego\" (1921), \"The Ego and the Id\" (1923), \"The Future of an Illusion\" (1927), \"Civilization and Its Discontents\" (1930), and \"Moses and Monotheism\" (1939). He describes \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" as Freud's \"first great book\". Discussing Freud's theory of dreams, he argues that, \"it is not desires as such that are placed at the center of the analysis, but rather their language\" and that psychoanalysis involves a \"semantics of desire\" that is \"articulated only in a semantics\". He argues that Freud's examinations of dreams and related phenomena shows that they all involve the question, \"How do desires achieve speech?\"\n\nDiscussing the place of psychoanalysis in debates about language, he writes that Freud's work presents language as being in general distorted, and involving \"double meaning\". He defines \"hermeneutics\" as \"the theory of the rules that preside over an exegesis—that is, over the interpretation of a particular text, or of a group of signs that may be viewed as a text.\" He discusses ego psychology. He discusses Freud's ideas in relation to those of the philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. He writes that he disagrees with Jacques Lacan's elimination of \"energy concepts in favor of linguistics\". He also writes that Lacan had proposed a linguistic conception of the unconscious.\n\n\"Freud and Philosophy\" was first published in May 1965 by Éditions du Seuil, as part of the series L'Ordre philosophique (The philosophic order). In 1970, an English translation was published by Yale University Press.\n\n\"Freud and Philosophy\" received a negative review from Michel Tort in \"Les Temps modernes\". Later discussions include those by Don Browning in \"The Christian Century\".\n\nAccording to the historian and psychoanalyst Élisabeth Roudinesco, Tort argued that the book was obscurantist, reactionary, and \"clerical\", and concluded that Ricœur's Christian and phenomenological approach to understanding Freud's texts was unhelpful and obsolete. He compared Ricœur's to Lacan's, but considered Lacan's approach to psychoanalysis superior to that of psychologists and philosophers. Browning compared the book to the philosopher Jonathan Lear's \"Love and Its Place in Nature\" (1990).\n\n\"Freud and Philosophy\" received a positive review from the psychiatrist Eliot Slater in the \"British Journal of Psychiatry\". The book was also reviewed by Norman Reider in the \"Journal of the History of the Behavioral Sciences\". Other discussions include those by the psychoanalyst Jean-Paul Valabrega in \"Critique\", William Adams in \"Western Political Quarterly\", the philosopher John Forrester in \"Isis\", R. D. Chessick in \"The Psychoanalytic Review\", Richard Kearney in \"Philosophy & Social Criticism\", Kirk A. Bingaman in \"Pastoral Psychology\", Charles Reagan in \"The Review of Metaphysics\", and Leif E. Vaage in \"Teaching Theology & Religion\".\n\nSlater described the book as an \"impressive work\" and \"the first study in depth by a professional philosopher of the development of Freud's thought and of psychoanalytical theory in all the stages of its growth.\" He credited Ricœur with providing \"discriminating appreciation\" of the development and evolution of Freud's ideas. However, he added that he found it unclear that Ricœur \"shows successfully on what grounds psychoanalysis could be subjected to any criticism whatsoever.\" He suggested that Ricœur's view of the interactions between psychoanalysts and their patients could be understood to imply that there is no way for third parties to determine the truth or untruth of the claims made by the analysts about their patients, meaning that they could \"be properly advised not to pay the slightest attention\" to those claims. He questioned whether such a view was acceptable.\n\nAccording to Roudinesco, Valabrega accused Ricœur of having drawn on Lacan's ideas despite claiming to be original. At the request of the philosopher Michel Foucault, \"Critique\" published a reply by Ricœur, in which he denied the accusation and explained that he had completed the outline of his interpretation of Freud before having read Lacan or attended his seminar. Kearney identified \"Freud and Philosophy\" as one of Ricœur's three major works of the 1960s, the others being \"The Symbolism of Evil\" and \"The Conflict of Interpretations\" (1969). He credited Ricœur with expanding on his analysis of symbols in \"The Symbolism of Evil\", and with demonstrating that the symbolic imagination is linguistic.\n\nForrester argued that \"Freud and Philosophy\" had been misrepresented by Adolf Grünbaum in \"The Foundations of Psychoanalysis\" (1984). Bingaman credited Ricœur with demonstrating that \"a Freudian hermeneutic\" has the potential to both challenge and \"purify and strengthen\" religious faith. Reagan wrote that because \"Freud and Philosophy\" made little mention of Lacan, Lacan's followers attacked Ricœur. Vaage compared \"Freud and Philosophy\" to Augustine of Hippo's \"Confessions\", the educator Paulo Freire's \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" (1968), and the anthropologist Jonathan Boyarin's \"The Ehnography of Reading\" (1993), writing that despite their differences, each contains \"a discipline or disciplines of learning how to read better or well for the sake of knowing a larger, more fulsome life.\"\n\nJohn B. Thompson described \"Freud and Philosophy\" as a \"well-known and justly acclaimed study of Freud\" in his introduction to Ricœur's \"Hermeneutics and the human sciences\" (1981). He compared Ricœur's views to Lacan's, writing that despite differences between the two, both accepted the \"irreducible role of language and meaning in psychoanalysis\". However, he noted that Ricœur failed to resolve the \"question of the scientific status of psychoanalysis\", and that Ricœur took a different approach to the issue in his subsequent essay \"The question of proof in Freud's psychoanalytic writings\". In the same work, Ricœur endorsed Thompson's view that his approach to psychoanalysis in \"The question of proof in Freud's psychoanalytic writings\" differed to his approach he had taken in \"Freud and Philosophy\". The psychotherapist Joel D. Hencken described \"Freud and Philosophy\" as an important example of the intellectual influence of psychoanalysis in the anthology \"\" (1982).\n\nMurray S. Davis credited Ricœur with subtly comparing psychoanalysis with phenomenology in \"Smut: Erotic Reality/Obscene Ideology\" (1983). However, he noted that the extent to which the two are similar is controversial, and concluded that Ricœur's comparison is only partially correct, since there is a parallel between psychoanalytic therapy and phenomenological inquiry, but not between psychoanalytic theory and phenomenological inquiry. Grünbaum criticized Ricœur's hermeneutic interpretation of Freud in \"The Foundations of Psychoanalysis\", arguing that Ricœur wrongly limited the relevance of psychoanalytic theory to verbal statements made during analytic therapy.\n\nRoudinesco maintained in \"Jacques Lacan & Co: A History of Psychoanalysis in France, 1925—1985\" (1986) that \"Freud and Philosophy\" was well received in France because it was the first book of its kind but criticized because phenomenology had become unfashionable by the time it was published in May 1965. She noted that the book angered the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan, who had expected it to praise him, prompting him to spread the rumor, which convinced Lacan's followers, that Ricœur had plagiarized his ideas. She argued that while Ricœur was able to understand Freud and ego psychology, Ricœur's discussion of Lacan was erroneous and that he failed to understand Lacan's use of structural concepts. She rejected Ricœur's claims that Lacan had eliminated energy concepts in favor of linguistics and proposed a \"linguistic conception of the unconscious.\" However, she dismissed the charge that Ricœur had plagiarized Lacan's ideas, writing that he could not have done so given his failure to understand them.\n\nThe philosopher Jeffrey Abramson compared \"Freud and Philosophy\" to Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\", Rieff's \"Freud: The Mind of the Moralist\", and Habermas's \"Knowledge and Human Interests\", as well as the classicist Norman O. Brown's \"Life Against Death\" (1959), in \"Liberation and Its Limits: The Moral and Political Thought of Freud\" (1986). He wrote that these works jointly placed Freud at the center of moral and philosophical inquiry. The historian Peter Gay described \"Freud and Philosophy\" as a \"highly disciplined study by the leading advocate of psychoanalysis as hermeneutics\" in \"\" (1988). However, he expressed disagreement with Ricœur's view of Freud. The critic Frank Kermode praised \"Freud and Philosophy\" in \"An Appetite for Poetry\" (1989), calling it \"monumental\". The psychoanalyst Joel Kovel saw \"Freud and Philosophy\" as an important demonstration that Freud was a post-Hegelian thinker in \"History and Spirit\" (1991), though he noted that Freud would have rejected any association with Hegel.\n\nLear, in \"Love and Its Place in Nature\" (1990), criticized \"Freud and Philosophy\" blaming it, along with Habermas's \"Knowledge and Human Interests\", for convincing some psychoanalysts that reasons cannot be causes, a view he considers part of a mistaken philosophical tradition. He credited Grünbaum with effectively criticizing Ricœur. The historian Paul Robinson described \"Freud and Philosophy\" as a classic portrayal of Freud as a hermeneutician and a philosopher similar to Friedrich Nietzsche in \"Freud and His Critics\" (1993). However, he credited Grünbaum with showing that Ricœur's effort to obscure Freud's identification with the scientific tradition is misguided. Forrester praised \"Freud and Philosophy\" in \"Dispatches from the Freud Wars\" (1997). The critic Frederick Crews criticized Ricœur for helping to inspire unscientific defenses of Freud and psychoanalysis in \"Unauthorized Freud\" (1998). He also charged him with misunderstanding Freud. He endorsed Grünbaum's criticisms of Ricœur. The philosopher Christopher Norris wrote in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" (2005) that the arguments of \"Freud and Philosophy\" reflect Ricœur's view that all interpretation involves a hermeneutic that is in part negative and in part positive: in the case of psychoanalysis, it involves both an examination of repressed memory and a way of helping patients by providing them self-knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "17244667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17244667", "title": "Gamete donation", "text": "Gamete donation\n\nGamete donation is the donation of gametes, either ova or sperm, and may thus refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "152575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152575", "title": "Giovanni Pico della Mirandola", "text": "Giovanni Pico della Mirandola\n\nGiovanni Pico della Mirandola (; 24 February 1463 – 17 November 1494) was an Italian Renaissance nobleman and philosopher. He is famed for the events of 1486, when, at the age of 23, he proposed to defend 900 theses on religion, philosophy, natural philosophy, and magic against all comers, for which he wrote the \"Oration on the Dignity of Man\", which has been called the \"Manifesto of the Renaissance\", and a key text of Renaissance humanism and of what has been called the \"Hermetic Reformation\". He was the founder of the tradition of Christian Kabbalah, a key tenet of early modern Western esotericism. The \"900 Theses\" was the first printed book to be universally banned by the Church.\n\nGiovanni was born at Mirandola, near Modena, the youngest son of Gianfrancesco I Pico, Lord of Mirandola and Count of Concordia, by his wife Giulia, daughter of Feltrino Boiardo, Count of Scandiano. The family had long dwelt in the Castle of Mirandola (Duchy of Modena), which had become independent in the fourteenth century and had received in 1414 from the Holy Roman Emperor Sigismund the fief of Concordia. Mirandola was a small autonomous county (later, a duchy) in Emilia, near Ferrara. The Pico della Mirandola were closely related to the Sforza, Gonzaga and Este dynasties, and Giovanni's siblings wed the descendants of the hereditary rulers of Corsica, Ferrara, Bologna, and Forlì.\n\nBorn twenty-three years into his parents' marriage, Giovanni had two much older brothers, both of whom outlived him: Count Galeotto I continued the dynasty, while Antonio became a general in the Imperial army. The Pico family would reign as dukes until Mirandola, an ally of Louis XIV of France, was conquered by his rival, Joseph I, Holy Roman Emperor, in 1708 and annexed to Modena by Duke Rinaldo d'Este, the exiled male line becoming extinct in 1747.\n\nGiovanni's maternal family was singularly distinguished in the arts and scholarship of the Italian Renaissance. His cousin and contemporary was the poet Matteo Maria Boiardo, who grew up under the influence of his own uncle, the Florentine patron of the arts and scholar-poet Tito Vespasiano Strozzi.\n\nGiovanni had a paradoxical relationship with his nephew Gianfrancesco Pico della Mirandola, who was a great admirer of his uncle, yet published \"Examen vanitatis doctrinae gentium\" (1520) in opposition to the \"ancient wisdom narrative\" espoused by Giovanni, described by historian Charles B. Schmitt as an attempt \"to destroy what his uncle had built.\"\n\nA precocious child with an exceptional memory, Giovanni was schooled in Latin and possibly Greek at a very early age. Intended for the Church by his mother, he was named a papal protonotary (probably honorary) at the age of ten and in 1477 he went to Bologna to study canon law.\n\nAt the sudden death of his mother three years later, Pico renounced canon law and began to study philosophy at the University of Ferrara. During a brief\ntrip to Florence, he met Angelo Poliziano, the courtly poet Girolamo Benivieni, and probably the young Dominican monk Girolamo Savonarola. For the rest of his life he remained very close friends with all three, including the ascetic and anti-humanist Savonarola. He may also have been a lover of Poliziano.\nFrom 1480 to 1482, he continued his studies at the University of Padua, a major center of Aristotelianism in Italy. Already proficient in Latin and Greek, he studied Hebrew and Arabic in Padua with Elia del Medigo, a Jewish Averroist, and read Aramaic manuscripts with him as well. Del Medigo also translated Judaic manuscripts from Hebrew into Latin for Pico, as he would continue to do for a number of years. Pico also wrote sonnets in Latin and Italian which, because of the influence of Savonarola, he destroyed at the end of his life.\n\nHe spent the next four years either at home, or visiting humanist centres elsewhere in Italy. In 1485, he travelled to the University of Paris, the most important centre in Europe for scholastic philosophy and theology, and a hotbed of secular Averroism. It was probably in Paris that Giovanni began his \"900 Theses\" and conceived the idea of defending them in public debate.\n\nDuring this time two life-changing events occurred. The first was when he returned to settle for a time in Florence in November 1484 and met Lorenzo de' Medici and Marsilio Ficino. It was an astrologically auspicious day that Ficino had chosen to publish his translations of the works of Plato from Greek into Latin, under Lorenzo's enthusiastic patronage. Pico appears to have charmed both men, and despite Ficino's philosophical differences, he was convinced of their Saturnine affinity and the divine providence of his arrival. Lorenzo would support and protect Pico until his death in 1492. Without Lorenzo's support, it is doubtful that Pico would have survived the Inquisition coming after him.\n\nSoon after this stay in Florence, Pico was travelling on his way to Rome where he intended to publish his \"900 Theses\" and prepare for a \"congress\" of scholars from all over Europe to debate them. Stopping in Arezzo he became embroiled in a love affair with the wife of one of Lorenzo de' Medici's cousins. It almost cost him his life. Giovanni attempted to run off with the woman, but he was caught, wounded and thrown into prison by her husband. He was released only upon the intervention of Lorenzo himself. The incident is representative of Pico's often audacious temperament and of the loyalty and affection he nevertheless could inspire.\n\nPico spent several months in Perugia and nearby Fratta, recovering from his injuries. It was there, as he wrote to Ficino, that \"divine Providence ... caused certain books to fall into my hands. They are Chaldean books ... of Esdras, of Zoroaster and of Melchior, oracles of the magi, which contain a brief and dry interpretation of Chaldean philosophy, but full of mystery.\" It was also in Perugia that Pico was introduced to the mystical Hebrew \"Kabbalah\", which fascinated him, as did the late classical Hermetic writers, such as Hermes Trismegistus. The \"Kabbalah\" and \"Hermetica\" were thought in Pico's time to be as ancient as the Old Testament. The most original of his 900 theses concerned the \"Kaballah\". As a result, he became the founder of the tradition known as Christian Kabbalah, which went on to be a central part of early modern Western esotericism. Pico's approach to different philosophies was one of extreme syncretism, placing them in parallel, it has been claimed, rather than attempting to describe a developmental history.\n\nPico based his ideas chiefly on Plato, as did his teacher, Marsilio Ficino, but retained a deep respect for Aristotle. Although he was a product of the \"studia humanitatis\", Pico was constitutionally an eclectic, and in some respects he represented a reaction against the exaggerations of pure humanism, defending what he believed to be the best of the medieval and Islamic commentators, such as Averroes and Avicenna, on Aristotle in a famous long letter to Ermolao Barbaro in 1485. It was always Pico's aim to reconcile the schools of Plato and Aristotle since he believed they used different words to express the same concepts. It was perhaps, for this reason, his friends called him \"Princeps Concordiae\", or \"Prince of Harmony\" (a pun on Prince of Concordia, one of his family's holdings). Similarly, Pico believed that an educated person should also study the Hebrew and Talmudic sources, and the Hermetics, because he thought they represented the same concept of God that is seen in the Old Testament, but in different words.\n\nHe finished his \"Oration on the Dignity of Man\" to accompany his \"900 Theses\" and traveled to Rome to continue his plan to defend them. He had them published together in December 1486 as \"Conclusiones philosophicae, cabalasticae et theologicae\", and offered to pay the expenses of any scholars who came to Rome to debate them publicly. He wanted the debate to begin on 6 January, which was, as historian Steven Farmer has observed, the feast of Epiphany and \"symbolic date of the submission of the pagan gentes to Christ in the persons of the Magi\". After emerging victorious at the culmination of the debate, Pico planned not only on the symbolic acquiescence of the pagan sages, but also the conversion of Jews as they realised that Jesus was the true secret of their traditions. According to Farmer, Pico may have been expecting quite literally that \"his Vatican debate would end with the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse crashing through the Roman skies\".\n\nIn February 1487, Pope Innocent VIII halted the proposed debate, and established a commission to review the orthodoxy of the \"900 Theses.\" Although Pico answered the charges against them, thirteen of them were condemned. Pico agreed in writing to retract them, but he did not change his mind about their validity. Eventually all 900 theses were condemned. He proceeded to write an \"apologia\" defending them, \"Apologia J. Pici Mirandolani, Concordiae comitis\", published in 1489, which he dedicated to his patron, Lorenzo. When the pope was apprised of the circulation of this manuscript, he set up an inquisitorial tribunal, forcing Pico to renounce the \"Apologia\", in addition to his condemned theses, which he agreed to do. The pope condemned \"900 Theses\" as:\nThis was the first time that a printed book had been banned by the Church, and nearly all copies were burned. Pico fled to France in 1488, where he was arrested by Philip II, Duke of Savoy, at the demand of the papal nuncios, and imprisoned at Vincennes. Through the intercession of several Italian princes – all instigated by Lorenzo de' Medici – King Charles VIII had him released, and the pope was persuaded to allow Pico to move to Florence and to live under Lorenzo's protection. But he was not cleared of the papal censures and restrictions until 1493, after the accession of Alexander VI (Rodrigo Borgia) to the papacy.\n\nThe experience deeply shook Pico. He reconciled with Savonarola, who remained a very close friend. It was at Pico's persuasion that Lorenzo invited Savonarola to Florence. But Pico never renounced his syncretist convictions. He settled in a villa near Fiesole prepared for him by Lorenzo, where he wrote and published the \"Heptaplus id est de Dei creatoris opere\" (1489) and \"De Ente et Uno\" (\"Of Being and Unity\", 1491). It was here that he also wrote his other most celebrated work, the \"Disputationes adversus astrologiam divinicatrium\" (\"Treatise Against Predictive Astrology\"), which was not published until after his death. In it, Pico acidly condemned the deterministic practices of the astrologers of his day.\n\nAfter the death of Lorenzo de' Medici, in 1492, Pico moved to Ferrara, although he continued to visit Florence. In Florence, political instability gave rise to the increasing influence of Savonarola, whose reactionary opposition to Renaissance expansion and style had already brought about conflict with the Medici family (they eventually were expelled from Florence) and would lead to the wholesale destruction of books and paintings. Nevertheless, Pico became a follower of Savonarola. Determined to become a monk, he dismissed his former interest in Egyptian and Chaldean texts, destroyed his own poetry and gave away his fortune.\n\nIn 1494, at the age of 31, Pico was poisoned under mysterious circumstances along with his friend Angelo Poliziano. It was rumoured that his own secretary had poisoned him because Pico had become too close to Savonarola. He was interred together with Girolamo Benivieni at San Marco, and Savonarola delivered the funeral oration. Ficino wrote: \n\nIn 2007, the bodies of Poliziano and Pico della Mirandola were exhumed from St. Mark's Basilica in Florence. Scientists under the supervision of Giorgio Gruppioni, a professor of anthropology from Bologna, attempted to determine the cause of the two men's death using modern technology. In February 2008 they announced their results, which showed that both Poliziano and Pico had died of arsenic poisoning, probably at the order of Lorenzo's successor, Piero de' Medici.\n\nIn the \"Oratio de hominis dignitate\" (\"Oration on the Dignity of Man\", 1486), Pico justified the importance of the human quest for knowledge within a Neoplatonic framework.\n\nThe \"Oration\" also served as an introduction to Pico's 900 theses, which he believed to provide a complete and sufficient basis for the discovery of all knowledge, and hence a model for mankind's ascent of the chain of being. The 900 Theses are a good example of humanist syncretism, because Pico combined Platonism, Neoplatonism, Aristotelianism, Hermeticism and Kabbalah. They also included 72 theses describing what Pico believed to be a complete system of physics.\n\nPico's \"De animae immortalitate\" (Paris, 1541), and other works, developed the doctrine that man's possession of an immortal soul freed him from the hierarchical stasis. Pico believed in universal reconciliation, as one of his 900 theses was \"A mortal sin of finite duration is not deserving of eternal but only of temporal punishment;\" it was among the theses pronounced heretical by Pope Innocent VIII in his bull of 4 August 1487. In the \"Oration\" he writes that \"human vocation is a mystical vocation that has to be realized following a three stage way, which comprehends necessarily moral transformation, intellectual research and final perfection in the identity with the absolute reality. This paradigm is universal, because it can be retraced in every tradition.\"\n\nA portion of his \"Disputationes adversus astrologiam divinatricem\" was published in Bologna after his death. In this book Pico presents arguments against the practice of astrology that have had enormous resonance for centuries, up to our own time. \"Disputationes\" is influenced by the arguments against astrology espoused by one of his intellectual heroes, Augustine of Hippo, and also by the medieval philosophical tale \"Ḥayy ibn Yaqẓān\" by ibn Tufail, which promoted autodidacticism as a philosophical program.\n\nPico's antagonism to astrology seems to derive mainly from the conflict of astrology with Christian notions of free will. But Pico's arguments moved beyond the objections of Ficino, who was himself an astrologer. The manuscript was edited for publication after Pico's death by his nephew Giovanni Francesco Pico della Mirandola, an ardent follower of Savonarola, and may possibly have been amended to be more forcefully critical. This might possibly explain the fact that Ficino championed the manuscript and enthusiastically endorsed it before its publication.\n\nEarly in his career, Pico wrote a \"Commento sopra una canzone d'amore di Girolamo Benivieni\", in which he revealed his plan to write a book entitled \"Poetica Theologia\":\n\nPico's \"Heptaplus\", a mystico-allegorical exposition of the creation according to the seven Biblical senses, elaborates on his idea that different religions and traditions describe the same God. The book is written in his characteristic apologetic and polemic style:\n\n\"On Being and the One\" (), has explanations of several passages in Moses, Plato and Aristotle. It is an attempted reconciliation between Platonic and Aristotelian writings on the relative places of being and \"the one\" and a refutation of opposing arguments.\n\nHe wrote in Italian an imitation of Plato's \"Symposium\". His letters (\"Aureae ad familiares epistolae\", Paris, 1499) are important for the history of contemporary thought. The many editions of his entire works in the sixteenth century sufficiently prove his influence.\n\nAnother notorious text by Giovanni Pico della Mirandola is \"De omnibus rebus et de quibusdam aliis\", \"Of all things that exist and a little more\" which is mentioned in some entries on Thomas More's \"Utopia\" and makes fun of the title of Lucretius' \"De rerum natura\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17841198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17841198", "title": "Hayk Gyulikekhvyan", "text": "Hayk Gyulikekhvyan\n\nHayk Gyulikekhvyan (, 1886, Shusha - 1951, Yerevan) was an Armenian literary critic and philosopher, Professor of Yerevan State University. He was one of the establishers of Soviet Armenian literary criticism.\n\nHe studied at Leipzig and Zurich universities, then finished the department of philosophy of Heidelberg University. Gyulikekhvyan cooperated with Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg. For his political activities he was arrested in 1914. In 1920's he became the editor of \"Kommunist\" newspaper of Yerevan, worked in Alexandropol. Gyulikekhvyan was the pro-rector of Yerevan State University and director of Armenian SSR Marxism–Leninism Institute. He was arrested during the period of stalinist terror, then released.\n\n"}
{"id": "316976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316976", "title": "Hobson's choice", "text": "Hobson's choice\n\nA Hobson's choice is a free choice in which only one thing is offered. Because a person may refuse to accept what is offered, the two options are taking it or taking nothing. In other words, one may \"take it or leave it\".\nThe phrase is said to have originated with Thomas Hobson (1544–1631), a livery stable owner in Cambridge, England, who offered customers the choice of either taking the horse in his stall nearest to the door or taking none at all.\n\nAccording to a plaque underneath a painting of Hobson donated to Cambridge Guildhall, Hobson had an extensive stable of some 40 horses. This gave the appearance to his customers that, upon entry, they would have their choice of mounts, when in fact there was only one: Hobson required his customers to choose the horse in the stall closest to the door. This was to prevent the best horses from always being chosen, which would have caused those horses to become overused. Hobson's stable was located on land that is now owned by St Catharine's College, Cambridge.\n\nHenry Ford is said to have offered the Ford Model T as a Hobson's choice with the famous dictum: \"Any customer can have a car in any color as long as it is black.\" In fact, the car was offered in a variety of colors in the earliest days.\n\nThe ultimatum game is a form of Hobson's choice.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the first known written usage of this phrase is in \"The rustick's alarm to the Rabbies\", written by Samuel Fisher in 1660:\n\nIt also appears in Joseph Addison's paper \"The Spectator\" (No. 509 of 14 October 1712); and in Thomas Ward's 1688 poem \"England's Reformation\", not published until after Ward's death. Ward wrote:\n\nThe term \"Hobson's choice\" is often used to mean an illusion of choice, but it is not a choice between two equivalent options, which is a Morton's fork, nor is it a choice between two undesirable options, which is a dilemma. Hobson's choice is one between something or nothing.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill, in his book \"Considerations on Representative Government\", refers to Hobson's choice:\n\nIn another of his books, \"The Subjection of Women\", Mill discusses marriage:\n\nIn the 1951 Robert Heinlein book \"Between Planets\", the main character Don Harvey incorrectly mentions he has a Hobson's choice. While on a space station orbiting Earth, Don needs to get to Mars, where his parents are. The only rockets available are back to Earth (where he is not welcome) or on to Venus.\n\nA Hobson's choice is different from:\n\nA common error is to use the phrase \"Hobbesian choice\" instead of \"Hobson's choice\", confusing the philosopher Thomas Hobbes with the relatively obscure Thomas Hobson (It's possible they may be confusing \"Hobson's choice\" with \"Hobbesian trap\", which refers to the trap into which a state falls when it attacks another out of fear). Notwithstanding that confused usage, the phrase \"Hobbesian choice\" is historically incorrect.\n\n\"Hobson's Choice\" is a full-length stage comedy written by Harold Brighouse in 1915. At the end of the play, the central character, Henry Horatio Hobson, formerly a wealthy, self-made businessman but now a sick and broken man, faces the unpalatable prospect of being looked after by his daughter Maggie and her husband Will Mossop, who used to be one of Hobson's underlings. His other daughters have refused to take him in, so he has no choice but to accept Maggie's offer which comes with the condition that he must surrender control of his entire business to her and her husband, Will.\n\nThe play was adapted for filming several times:\n\nIn \"Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha\" (1983), Justice Byron White dissented and classified the majority's decision to strike down the \"one-house veto\" as unconstitutional as leaving Congress with a Hobson's choice. Congress may choose between \"refrain[ing] from delegating the necessary authority, leaving itself with a hopeless task of writing laws with the requisite specificity to cover endless special circumstances across the entire policy landscape, or in the alternative, to abdicate its lawmaking function to the executive branch and independent agency\".\n\nIn \"Monell v. Department of Social Services of the City of New York\", 436 U.S. 658 (1978) the judgement of the court was that\nIn the South African Constitutional Case MEC for Education, Kwa-Zulu Natal and Others v Pillay, 2008 (1) SA 474 (CC) Chief Justice Langa for the majority of the Court (in Paragraph 62 of the judgement) writes that:\nIn Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018), Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented and added in one of the footnotes that the petitioners \"faced a Hobson’s choice: accept arbitration on their employer’s terms or\ngive up their jobs\".\n\nAlfred Bester's 1952 short story \"Hobson's Choice\" describes a world in which time travel is possible, and the option is to travel or to stay in one's native time. \n\nIn \"The Grim Grotto\" by Lemony Snicket, the Baudelaire orphans and Fiona are said to be faced with a Hobson's Choice when they are trapped by the Medusoid Mycelium Mushrooms in the Gorgonian Grotto: \"We can wait until the mushrooms disappear, or we can find ourselves poisoned\".\n\nIn Bram Stoker's short story \"The Burial of Rats\", the narrator advises he has a case of Hobson's Choice while being chased by villains. The story was written around 1874. \n\nA well known line of the 1835 novel Le Père Goriot by French novelist Honoré de Balzac is when Vautrin tells Eugene, \"In that case I will make you an offer that no one would decline.\" This has been reworked by Mario Puzo in the novel \"The Godfather\" (1969) and its film adaptation (1972); \"I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse\", a line which was ranked as the second most significant cinematic quote in AFI's 100 Years...100 Movie Quotes (2005) by the American Film Institute.\n\n\"The Terminal Experiment\", a 1995 science fiction novel by Robert J. Sawyer, was originally serialised under the title Hobson's Choice.\n\n\"Half-Life\", a video game created in 1998 by Valve Corporation includes a Hobson's Choice in the final chapter. A human-like entity, known only as the 'G-Man', offers the protagonist Gordon Freeman a job, working under his control. If Gordon were to refuse this offer, he would be killed, thus creating the 'illusion of free choice'.\n\nIn \"Early Edition\", the lead character Gary Hobson is named after the choices he regularly makes during his adventures. \n\nIn an episode of \"Inspector George Gently\", a character claims her resignation was a Hobson's choice, prompting a debate among other police officers as to who Hobson is.\n\nIn \"Cape May\" (\"The Blacklist\" season 3, episode 19), Raymond Reddington describes having faced a Hobson's choice in the previous episode where he was faced with the choice of saving Elizabeth Keen's baby and losing Elizabeth Keen or losing them both.\n\nIn his 1984 novel Job: A Divine Comedy, Robert A. Heinlein’s protagonist is said to have Hobson’s Choice when he has the options of boarding the wrong cruise ship or staying on the island.\n"}
{"id": "19612487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19612487", "title": "Hywel Lewis", "text": "Hywel Lewis\n\nHywel David Lewis (21 May 1910 – 6 April 1992) was a Welsh theologian and philosopher. He was best known for his defence of dualism and personal survival.\n\nLewis was born in Llandudno, Wales, and educated at Caernarfon grammar school, the University College of North Wales, Bangor (graduating with a first-class degree in philosophy in 1932), and Jesus College, Oxford (graduating with a BLitt in 1935). \n\nHe was then a lecturer in philosophy at Bangor, becoming professor in 1947. In 1955, he was appointed Professor of the History and Philosophy of Religion at the University of London, retiring in 1977. His works included \"Morals and the New Theology\" (1947), \"Morals and Revelation\" (1951), \"Our Experience of God\" (1959), \"The Elusive Mind\" (1969), \"The Self and Immortality\" (1973), \"Persons and Life after Death\" (1978) and \"The Elusive Self\" (1982). He also published in Welsh. His interest in comparative religion led to his becoming founding editor of the journal \"Religious Studies\", holding the post from 1964 to 1979. He edited the Muirhead Library of Philosophy from 1947 to 1978. He also served as president of the Aristotelian Society from 1962 to 1963, and as chairman of the council of the Royal Institute of Philosophy from 1965 to 1968. \n\nHe died on 6 April 1992 and was buried at St Tudno's church on the Great Orme.\n\nLewis wrote there is no incoherence in the notion of personal survival in his book \"The Self and Immortality\" (1973). Michael Marsh in a review wrote the book offered a \"substantial defense\" for interactionist dualism. In his book \"Persons and Life after Death\" (1978) Lewis argued that the ultimate basis for a belief in life after death is from religion. He claimed this belief could mean for some, the resurrection of the body, survival in an astral body or survival in a disembodied form. Lewis wrote that disembodied survival is most plausible from a religious point of view. \n\nLewis was a Christian who sought common ground between the world's religions and argued there is a sense of transcendental reality in all of them. However, he argued against Buddhist and monistic views in which the self is considered to be an illusion. \n\nIn his book \"The Elusive Self\" (1982) Lewis argued that mental states are \"distinct in nature from physical states but constantly interacting with them\" and there is a \"subject, or a self or soul, which remains constant and is uniquely involved in all the flow of our mental states or experiences.\" The philosopher Gareth Matthews gave the book a negative review claiming Lewis had offered no evidence for dualism. On the subject of dreamless sleep, Lewis wrote the self ceases to be. According to Matthews the belief that the self can pop in and out of existence would be alarming to some readers but Lewis had no problem with accepting this view. Matthews concluded that Lewis's controversial claims were deliberately left with no direct argumentative support. Eugene Long gave the book a positive review stating Lewis had given an adequate defence for the dualistic position and the existence of the self. Long has written that Lewis was a philosophical realist, similar to John Baillie and John Cook Wilson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "880416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880416", "title": "Illocutionary act", "text": "Illocutionary act\n\nThe concept of illocutionary acts was introduced into linguistics by the philosopher J. L. Austin in his investigation of the various aspects of speech acts.\n\nIn Austin's framework, \"locution\" is what was said and meant, \"illocution\" is what was done, and \"perlocution\" is what happened as a result.\n\nWhen somebody says \"Is there any salt?\" at the dinner table, the \"illocutionary act\" is a request: \"please give me some salt\" even though the \"locutionary act\" (the literal sentence) was to ask a question about the presence of salt.\n\nThe \"perlocutionary act\" (the actual effect), might be to cause somebody to pass the salt.\n\nThe notion of an illocutionary act is closely connected with Austin's doctrine of the so-called 'performative' and 'constative utterances': an utterance is \"performative\" \"if, and only if\" it is issued in the course of the \"doing of an action\" (1975, 5), by which, again, Austin means the performance of an illocutionary act (Austin 1975, 6 n2, 133). According to Austin's original exposition in \"How to Do Things With Words\", an illocutionary act is an act:\n\nThus, for example, in order to make a promise I must make clear to my audience that the act I am performing is the making of a promise, and in the performance of the act I will be undertaking a conventional obligation to do the promised thing: the promisee will understand what it means to make a promise and fulfill it. Thus, promising is an illocutionary act in the present sense. Since Austin's death, the term has been defined differently by various authors.\n\nOne way to think about the difference between an \"illocutionary act\" (e.g., a declaration, command, or a promise), and a \"perlocutionary act\" (e.g., a listener's reaction) is to note how in the former case, by uttering the object — for example, \"I hereby promise you\" — (and assuming that all other necessary features of the performative situation pertain), then the act has taken place: a promise was made. The perlocutionary result (how the promisee reacts) might be acceptance, or skepticism, or disbelief, but none of these reactions alter the illocutionary force of the statement: the promise was made. \n\nThat is to say, in each case a declaration, command, or promise has necessarily taken place in virtue of the utterance itself, whether the hearer believes in or acts upon the declaration, command, or promise or not.\n\nOn the other hand, with a perlocutionary act, the object of the utterance has not taken place unless the hearer deems it so — for example, if one utters, \"I hereby insult you,\" or \"I hereby persuade you\" — one would not assume an insult has necessarily occurred, nor persuasion has necessarily taken place, unless the hearer were suitably offended or persuaded by the utterance. \n\nWhereas Austin used \"performative\" to talk about certain kinds of utterances as having \"force,\" his term \"illocution\" rather names a quality or aspect of all utterances. They will have a locutionary sense or meaning, an illocutionary force, and a perlocutionary result. This approach has encouraged the view that even true/false constative statements have illocutionary force (as in \"I hereby state and affirm\") and even performatives can be evaluable as true/false statements (as \"guilty\" verdict might be right or wrong). \nIt is also often emphasised that Austin introduced the illocutionary act by means of a contrast with other aspects of \"doing\" by \"speaking.\" The illocutionary act, he says, is an act performed \"in\" saying something, as contrasted with a locutionary act, the act \"of\" saying something, and also contrasted with a perlocutionary act, an act performed \"by\" saying something. Austin, however, eventually abandoned the \"in saying\" / \"by saying\" test (1975, 123).\n\nAccording to the conception adopted by Bach and Harnish in 'Linguistic Communication and Speech Acts' (1979), an illocutionary act is an attempt to communicate, which they analyse as the expression of an attitude. Another conception of the illocutionary act goes back to Schiffer's book 'Meaning' (1972, 103), in which the illocutionary act is represented as just the act of meaning something.\n\nAccording to a widespread opinion, an adequate and useful account of \"illocutionary acts\" has been provided by John Searle (e.g., 1969, 1975, 1979). In recent years, however, it has been doubted whether Searle's account is well-founded. A wide ranging critique is in FC Doerge 2006. Collections of articles examining Searle's account are: Burkhardt 1990 and Lepore / van Gulick 1991.\n\nSearle (1975) set up the following classification of illocutionary speech acts:\nThe classification is intended to be exhaustive but the classes are not mutually exclusive: John Austin's well-known example \"I bet you five pounds it will rain\" is both directive and commissive.\n\nSeveral speech act theorists, including Austin himself, make use of the notion of an \"illocutionary force\". In Austin's original account, the notion remains rather unclear. Some followers of Austin, such as David Holdcroft, view illocutionary force as the property of an utterance to be made with the \"intention\" to perform a certain illocutionary act—rather than as the successful performance of the act (which is supposed to further require the appropriateness of certain circumstances). According to this conception, the utterance of \"I bet you five pounds that it will rain\" may well have an illocutionary force even if the addressee doesn't hear it. However, Bach and Harnish assume illocutionary force \"if, and only if\" this or that illocutionary act is actually (successfully) performed. According to this conception, the addressee must have heard and understood that the speaker intends to make a bet with them in order for the utterance to have 'illocutionary force'.\n\nIf we adopt the notion of illocutionary \"force\" as an aspect of meaning, then it appears that the (intended) 'force' of certain sentences, or utterances, is not quite obvious. If someone says, \"It sure is cold in here\", there are several different illocutionary acts that might be aimed at by the utterance. The utterer might intend to describe the room, in which case the illocutionary force would be that of 'describing'. But she might also intend to criticise someone who should have kept the room warm. Or it might be meant as a request to someone to close the window. These forces may be interrelated: it may be by way of stating that the temperature is too cold that one criticises someone else. Such a performance of an illocutionary act by means of the performance of another is referred to as an \"indirect speech act\".\n\nSearle and Vanderveken (1985) often speak about what they call 'illocutionary force indicating devices' (IFIDs). These are supposed to be elements, or aspects of linguistic devices which indicate either (dependent on which conceptions of \"illocutionary force\" and \"illocutionary act\" are adopted) that the utterance is made with a certain illocutionary force, or else that it constitutes the performance of a certain illocutionary act. In English, for example, the interrogative mood is supposed to indicate that the utterance is (intended as) a question; the directive mood indicates that the utterance is (intended as) a directive illocutionary act (an order, a request, etc.); the words \"I promise\" are supposed to indicate that the utterance is (intended as) a promise. Possible IFIDs in English include: word order, stress, intonation contour, punctuation, the mood of the verb, and performative verbs.\n\nAnother notion Searle and Vanderveken use is that of an 'illocutionary negation'. The difference of such an 'illocutionary negation' to a 'propositional negation' can be explained by reference to the difference between \"I do not promise to come\" and \"I promise not to come\". The first is an illocutionary negation—the 'not' negates the promise. The second is a propositional negation. In the view of Searle and Vanderveken, illocutionary negations change the type of illocutionary act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50355", "title": "Informed consent", "text": "Informed consent\n\nInformed consent is a process for getting permission before conducting a healthcare intervention on a person, or for disclosing personal information. A health care provider may ask a patient to consent to receive therapy before providing it, or a clinical researcher may ask a research participant before enrolling that person into a clinical trial. Informed consent is collected according to guidelines from the fields of medical ethics and research ethics.\n\nAn informed consent can be said to have been given based upon a clear appreciation and understanding of the facts, implications, and consequences of an action. Adequate informed consent is rooted in respecting a person’s dignity. To give informed consent, the individual concerned must have adequate reasoning faculties and be in possession of all relevant facts. Impairments to reasoning and judgment that may prevent informed consent include basic intellectual or emotional immaturity, high levels of stress such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or a severe intellectual disability, severe mental disorder, intoxication, severe sleep deprivation, Alzheimer's disease, or being in a coma.\n\nObtaining informed consent is not always required. If an individual is considered unable to give informed consent, another person is generally authorized to give consent on his behalf, e.g., parents or legal guardians of a child (though in this circumstance the child may be required to provide informed assent) and conservators for the mentally disordered, or consent can be assumed through the doctrine of implied consent, e.g., when an unconscious person will die without immediate medical treatment.\n\nIn cases where an individual is provided insufficient information to form a reasoned decision, serious ethical issues arise. Such cases in a clinical trial in medical research are anticipated and prevented by an ethics committee or Institutional Review Board.\n\nInformed Consent Form Templates can be found on the World Health Organization Website for practical use.\n\nInformed consent can be complex to evaluate, because neither expressions of consent, nor expressions of understanding of implications, necessarily mean that full adult consent was in fact given, nor that full comprehension of relevant issues is internally digested. Consent may be implied within the usual subtleties of human communication, rather than explicitly negotiated verbally or in writing. In some cases consent cannot legally be possible, even if the person protests he does indeed understand and wish. There are also structured instruments for evaluating capacity to give informed consent, although no ideal instrument presently exists.\n\nThus, there is always a degree to which informed consent must be assumed or inferred based upon observation, or knowledge, or legal reliance. This especially is the case in sexual or relational issues. In medical or formal circumstances, explicit agreement by means of signature—normally relied on legally—regardless of actual consent, is the norm. This is the case with certain procedures, such as a \"do not resuscitate\" directive that a patient signed before onset of their illness. \n\nBrief examples of each of the above:\n\nFor an individual to give valid informed consent, three components must be present: disclosure, capacity and voluntariness.\n\n\nWaiver of the consent requirement may be applied in certain circumstances where no foreseeable harm is expected to result from the study or when permitted by law, federal regulations, or if an ethical review committee has approved the non-disclosure of certain information.\n\nBesides studies with minimal risk, waivers of consent may be obtained in a military setting. According to 10 USC 980, the United States Code for the Armed Forces, Limitations on the Use of Humans as Experimental Subjects, a waiver of advanced informed consent may be granted by the Secretary of Defense if a research project would:\n\nWhile informed consent is a basic right and should be carried out effectively, if a patient is incapacitated due to injury or illness, it is still important that patients benefit from emergency experimentation. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) joined together to create federal guidelines to permit emergency research, without informed consent. However, they can only proceed with the research if they obtain a waiver of informed consent (WIC) or an emergency exception from informed consent (EFIC).\n\n\"Informed consent\" is a technical term first used by attorney, Paul G. Gebhard, in a medical malpractice United States court case in 1957. In tracing its history, some scholars have suggested tracing the history of checking for any of these practices:\nThese practices are part of what constitutes informed consent, and their history is the history of informed consent. They combine to form the modern concept of informed consent—which rose in response to particular incidents in modern research. Whereas various cultures in various places practiced informed consent, the modern concept of informed consent was developed by people who drew influence from Western tradition.\n\nHistorians cite a series of medical guidelines to trace the history of informed consent in medical practice.\n\nThe Hippocratic Oath, a 500 BC Greek text, was the first set of Western writings giving guidelines for the conduct of medical professionals. It advises that physicians conceal most information from patients to give the patients the best care. The rationale is a beneficence model for care—the doctor knows better than the patient, and therefore should direct the patient's care, because the patient is not likely to have better ideas than the doctor.\n\nHenri de Mondeville, a French surgeon who in the 14th century, wrote about medical practice. He traced his ideas to the Hippocratic Oath. Among his recommendations were that doctors \"promise a cure to every patient\" in hopes that the good prognosis would inspire a good outcome to treatment. Mondeville never mentioned getting consent, but did emphasize the need for the patient to have confidence in the doctor. He also advised that when deciding therapeutically unimportant details the doctor should meet the patients' requests \"so far as they do not interfere with treatment\".\n\nBenjamin Rush was an 18th-century United States physician who was influenced by the Age of Enlightenment cultural movement. Because of this, he advised that doctors ought to share as much information as possible with patients. He recommended that doctors educate the public and respect a patient's informed decision to accept therapy. There is no evidence that he supported seeking a consent from patients. In a lecture titled \"On the duties of patients to their physicians\", he stated that patients should be strictly obedient to the physician's orders; this was representative of much of his writings. John Gregory, Rush's teacher, wrote similar views that a doctor could best practice beneficence by making decisions for the patients without their consent.\n\nThomas Percival was a British physician who published a book called \"Medical Ethics\" in 1803. Percival was a student of the works of Gregory and various earlier Hippocratic physicians. Like all previous works, Percival's \"Medical Ethics\" makes no mention of soliciting for the consent of patients or respecting their decisions. Percival said that patients have a right to truth, but when the physician could provide better treatment by lying or withholding information, he advised that the physician do as he thought best.\n\nWhen the American Medical Association was founded they in 1847 produced a work called the first edition of the \"American Medical Association Code of Medical Ethics\". Many sections of this book are verbatim copies of passages from Percival's \"Medical Ethics\". A new concept in this book was the idea that physicians should fully disclose all patient details truthfully when talking to other physicians, but the text does not also apply this idea to disclosing information to patients. Through this text, Percival's ideas became pervasive guidelines throughout the United States as other texts were derived from them.\n\nWorthington Hooker was an American physician who in 1849 published \"Physician and Patient\". This medical ethics book was radical demonstrating understanding of the AMA's guidelines and Percival's philosophy and soundly rejecting all directives that a doctor should lie to patients. In Hooker's view, benevolent deception is not fair to the patient, and he lectured widely on this topic. Hooker's ideas were not broadly influential.\n\nHistorians cite a series of human subject research experiments to trace the history of informed consent in research.\n\nThe U.S. Army Yellow Fever Commission “is considered the first research group in history to use consent forms.” In 1900, Major Walter Reed was appointed head of the four man U.S. Army Yellow Fever Commission in Cuba that determined mosquitoes were the vector for yellow fever transmission. His earliest experiments were probably done without formal documentation of informed consent. In later experiments he obtained support from appropriate military and administrative authorities. He then drafted what is now “one of the oldest series of extant informed consent documents.” The three surviving examples are in Spanish with English translations; two have an individual’s signature and one is marked with an X.\n\n\"Tearoom Trade\" is the name of a book by American psychologist Laud Humphreys. In it he describes his research into male homosexual acts. In conducting this research he never sought consent from his research subjects and other researchers raised concerns that he violated the right to privacy for research participants.\n\nThe Milgram experiment is the name of a 1961 experiment conducted by American psychologist Stanley Milgram. In the experiment Milgram had an authority figure order research participants to commit a disturbing act of harming another person. After the experiment he would reveal that he had deceived the participants and that they had not hurt anyone, but the research participants were upset at the experience of having participated in the research. The experiment raised broad discussion on the ethics of recruiting participants for research without giving them full information about the nature of the research.\n\nChester M. Southam used HeLa cells to inject into cancer patients and Ohio State Penitentiary inmates without informed consent to determine if people could become immune to cancer and if cancer could be transmitted.\n\nThe doctrine of informed consent relates to professional negligence and establishes a breach of the duty of care owed to the patient (see duty of care, breach of the duty, and respect for persons). The doctrine of informed consent also has significant implications for medical trials of medications, devices, or procedures.\n\nUntil 2015 in the United Kingdom and in countries such as Malaysia and Singapore, informed consent in medical procedures requires proof as to the standard of care to expect as a recognised standard of acceptable professional practice (the Bolam Test), that is, what risks would a medical professional usually disclose in the circumstances (see Loss of right in English law). Arguably, this is \"sufficient consent\" rather than \"informed consent.\" The UK has since departed from the Bolam test for judging standards of informed consent, due to the landmark ruling in \"Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board\". This moves away from the concept of a reasonable physician and instead uses the standard of a reasonable patient, and what risks an individual would attach significance to.\n\nMedicine in the United States, Australia, and Canada also takes this patient-centric approach to \"informed consent.\" Informed consent in these jurisdictions requires healthcare providers to disclose significant risks, as well as risks of particular importance to that patient. This approach combines an objective (a hypothetical reasonable patient) and subjective (this particular patient) approach.\n\nThe doctrine of informed consent should be contrasted with the general doctrine of medical consent, which applies to assault or battery. The consent standard here is only that the person understands, in general terms, the nature of and purpose of the intended intervention. As the higher standard of informed consent applies to negligence, not battery, the other elements of negligence must be made out. Significantly, causation must be shown: That had the individual been made aware of the risk he would not have proceeded with the operation (or perhaps with that surgeon).\n\nOptimal establishment of an informed consent requires adaptation to cultural or other individual factors of the patient. For example, people from Mediterranean and Arab appear to rely more on the context of the delivery of the information, with the information being carried more by who is saying it and where, when, and how it's being said, rather than \"what\" is said, which is of relatively more importance in typical \"Western\" countries.\n\nThe informed consent doctrine is generally implemented through good healthcare practice: pre-operation discussions with patients and the use of medical consent forms in hospitals. However, reliance on a signed form should not undermine the basis of the doctrine in giving the patient an opportunity to weigh and respond to the risk. In one British case, a doctor performing routine surgery on a woman noticed that she had cancerous tissue in her womb. He took the initiative to remove the woman's womb; however, as she had not given informed consent for this operation, the doctor was judged by the General Medical Council to have acted negligently. The council stated that the woman should have been informed of her condition, and allowed to make her own decision.\n\nTo capture and manage informed consents, hospital management systems typically use paper-based consent forms which are scanned and stored in a document handling system after obtaining the necessary signatures. Hospital systems and research organizations are adopting an electronic way of capturing informed consents to enable indexing, to improve comprehension, search and retrieval of consent data, thus enhancing the ability to honor to patient intent and identify willing research participants. More recently, Health Sciences South Carolina, a statewide research collaborative focused on transforming healthcare quality, health information systems and patient outcomes, developed an open-source system called Research Permissions Management System (RPMS).\n\nThe ability to give informed consent is governed by a general requirement of competency. In common law jurisdictions, adults are presumed competent to consent. This presumption can be rebutted, for instance, in circumstances of mental illness or other incompetence. This may be prescribed in legislation or based on a common-law standard of inability to understand the nature of the procedure. In cases of incompetent adults, a health care proxy makes medical decisions. In the absence of a proxy, the medical practitioner is expected to act in the patient's best interests until a proxy can be found.\n\nBy contrast, 'minors' (which may be defined differently in different jurisdictions) are generally presumed incompetent to consent, but depending on their age and other factors may be required to provide Informed assent. In some jurisdictions (e.g. much of the U.S.), this is a strict standard. In other jurisdictions (e.g. England, Australia, Canada), this presumption may be rebutted through proof that the minor is ‘mature’ (the ‘Gillick standard’). In cases of incompetent minors, informed consent is usually required from the parent (rather than the 'best interests standard') although a parens patriae order may apply, allowing the court to dispense with parental consent in cases of refusal.\n\nResearch involving deception is controversial given the requirement for informed consent. Deception typically arises in social psychology, when researching a particular psychological process requires that investigators deceive subjects. For example, in the Milgram experiment, researchers wanted to determine the willingness of participants to obey authority figures despite their personal conscientious objections. They had authority figures demand that participants deliver what they thought was an electric shock to another research participant. For the study to succeed, it was necessary to deceive the participants so they believed that the subject was a peer and that their electric shocks caused the peer actual pain.\n\nNonetheless, research involving deception prevents subjects from exercising their basic right of autonomous informed decision-making and conflicts with the ethical principle of respect for persons.\n\nThe Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct set by the American Psychological Association says that psychologists may conduct research that includes a deceptive compartment only if they can both justify the act by the value and importance of the study's results and show they could not obtain the results by some other way. Moreover, the research should bear no potential harm to the subject as an outcome of deception, either physical pain or emotional distress. Finally, the code requires a debriefing session in which the experimenter both tells the subject about the deception and gives subject the option of withdrawing the data.\n\nIn some U.S. states, informed consent laws (sometimes called \"right to know\" laws) require that a woman seeking an elective abortion receive information from the abortion provider about her legal rights, alternatives to abortion (such as adoption), available public and private assistance, and other information specified in the law, before the abortion is performed. Other countries with such laws (e.g. Germany) require that the information giver be properly certified to make sure that no abortion is carried out for the financial gain of the abortion provider and to ensure that the decision to have an abortion is not swayed by any form of incentive.\n\nSome informed consent laws have been criticized for allegedly using \"loaded language in an apparently deliberate attempt to 'personify' the fetus,\" but those critics acknowledge that \"most of the information in the [legally mandated] materials about abortion comports with recent scientific findings and the principles of informed consent\", although \"some content is either misleading or altogether incorrect.\"\n\nAs children often lack the decision making ability or legal power (competence) to provide true informed consent for medical decisions, it often falls on parents or legal guardians to provide \"informed permission\" for medical decisions. This \"consent by proxy\" usually works reasonably well, but can lead to ethical dilemmas when the judgment of the parents or guardians and the medical professional differ with regard to what constitutes appropriate decisions \"in the best interest of the child\". Children who are legally emancipated, and certain situations such as decisions regarding sexually transmitted diseases or pregnancy, or for unemancipated minors who are deemed to have medical decision making capacity, may be able to provide consent without the need for parental permission depending on the laws of the jurisdiction the child lives in. The American Academy of Pediatrics encourages medical professionals also to seek the assent of older children and adolescents by providing age appropriate information to these children to help empower them in the decision making process.\n\nResearch on children has benefited society in many ways. The only effective way to establish normal patterns of growth and metabolism is to do research on infants and young children. When addressing the issue of informed consent with children, the primary response is parental consent. This is valid, although only legal guardians are able to consent for a child, not adult siblings. Additionally, parents may not order the termination of a treatment that is required to keep a child alive, even if they feel it is in the best interest. Guardians are typically involved in the consent of children, however a number of doctrines have developed that allow children to receive health treatments without parental consent. For example, emancipated minors may consent to medical treatment, and minors can also consent in an emergency.\n\nInformed consent is part of the ethical clinical research as well, in which a human subject voluntarily confirms his or her willingness to participate in a particular clinical trial, after having been informed of all aspects of the trial that are relevant to the subject's decision to participate. Informed consent is documented by means of a written, signed, and dated informed consent form.\nIn medical research, the Nuremberg Code set a base international standard in 1947, which continued to develop, for example in response to the ethical violation in the Holocaust. Nowadays, medical research is overseen by an ethics committee that also oversees the informed consent process.\n\nAs the medical guidelines established in the Nuremberg Code were imported into the ethical guidelines for the social sciences, informed consent became a common part of the research procedure. However, while informed consent is the default in medical settings, it is not always required in the social science. Here, research often involves low or no risk for participants, unlike in many medical experiments. Second, the mere knowledge that they participate in a study can cause people to alter their behavior, as in the Hawthorne Effect: \"In the typical lab experiment, subjects enter an environment in which they are keenly aware that their behavior is being monitored, recorded, and subsequently scrutinized.\"\nIn such cases, seeking informed consent directly interferes with the ability to conduct the research, because the very act of revealing that a study is being conducted is likely to alter the behavior studied. List exemplifies the potential dilemma that can result: \"if one were interested in exploring whether, and to what extent, race or gender influences the prices that buyers pay for used cars, it would be difficult to measure accurately the degree of discrimination among used car dealers who know that they are taking part in an experiment.\" In cases where such interference is likely, and after careful consideration, a researcher may forgo the informed consent process. This is commonly done after weighting the risk to study participants versus the benefit to society and whether participants are present in the study out of their own wish and treated fairly. Researchers often consult with an ethics committee or institutional review board to render a decision.\n\nThe birth of new online media, such as social media, has complicated the idea of informed consent. In an online environment people pay little attention to Terms of Use agreements and can subject themselves to research without thorough knowledge. This issue came to the public light following a study conducted by Facebook Inc. in 2014, and published by that company and Cornell University. Facebook conducted a study where they altered the Facebook News Feeds of roughly 700,000 users to reduce either the amount of positive or negative posts they saw for a week. The study then analyzed if the users status updates changed during the different conditions. The study was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nThe lack of informed consent led to outrage among many researchers and users. Many believed that by potentially altering the mood of users by altering what posts they see, Facebook put at-risk individuals at higher dangers for depression and suicide. However, supports of Facebook claim that Facebook details that they have the right to use information for research in their terms of use. Others say the experiment is just a part of Facebook’s current work, which alters News Feeds algorithms continually to keep people interested and coming back to the site. Others pointed out that this specific study is not along but that news organizations constantly try out different headlines using algorithms to elicit emotions and garner clicks or Facebook shares. They say this Facebook study is no different than things people already accept. Still, others say that Facebook broke the law when conducting the experiment on user that didn’t give informed consent.\n\nThe Facebook study controversy raises numerous questions about informed consent and the differences in the ethical review process between publicly and privately funded research. Some say Facebook was within its limits and others see the need for more informed consent and/or the establishment of in-house private review boards.\n\nOther, long-standing controversies underscore the role for conflicts of interest among medical school faculty and researchers. For example, coverage of University of California (UC) medical school faculty members has included news of ongoing corporate payments to researchers and practitioners from companies that market and produce the very devices and treatments they recommend to patients. Robert Pedowitz, the former chairman of UCLA’s orthopedic surgery department, reported concern that his colleague’s financial conflicts of interest could negatively affect patient care or research into new treatments. In a subsequent lawsuit about whistleblower retaliation, the University provided a $10 million settlement to Pedowitz while acknowledging no wrongdoing. Consumer Watchdog, an oversight group, observed that University of CA policies were “either inadequate or unenforced…Patients in UC hospitals deserve the most reliable surgical devices and medication…and they shouldn’t be treated as subjects in expensive experiments.” Other UC incidents include taking the eggs of women for implantation into other women without consent and injecting live bacteria into human brains, resulting in potentially premature deaths.\n"}
{"id": "683128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683128", "title": "Iron Ring", "text": "Iron Ring\n\nThe Iron Ring is a ring worn by many Canadian-trained engineers, as a symbol and reminder of the obligations and ethics associated with their profession. From a concept originated in 1922, the ring is presented to graduates in a closed ceremony known as The Ritual of the Calling of an Engineer, developed with the assistance of English poet Rudyard Kipling.\n\nThe ring symbolizes the pride which engineers have in their profession, while simultaneously reminding them of their humility. The ring serves as a reminder to the engineer and others of the engineer's obligation to live by a high standard of professional conduct. It is not a symbol of qualification as an engineer – this is determined by the provincial and territorial licensing bodies.\n\nThe Iron Ring is made from either iron or stainless steel. The first ceremony awarding the ring was held in 1925, under the supervision of Herbert E. T. Haultain, professor of mining engineering at the University of Toronto.\n\nThe rings are given in ceremonies held at individual universities, each assigned one of 26 camps of the Corporation of the Seven Wardens. Because iron deteriorates turning the finger black and making the ring fit more loosely, all camps except Toronto have stopped conferring rings made of iron and have switched to stainless steel rings. At the Toronto camp, the individual ceremonies held at the University of Toronto, University of Ottawa, Ryerson University, York University and the University of Ontario Institute of Technology, continue to provide recipients with a choice of rings made of iron or stainless steel.\n\nMany incorrectly believe that the rings are made from the steel of a beam from the first Quebec Bridge, which collapsed during construction in 1907. Seventy-five construction workers died in the collapse which was attributed to poor planning and design by the overseeing engineers. Rudyard Kipling, who wrote the ritual obligation, indicated that the Ring as an allegory in itself be rough, not smoothed, and hammered, and as a ring have no beginning nor end. There is no evidence that there is any particular history in the source of \"Cold Iron\" (from the Calling of the Engineer ceremony) for the Ring, nor any intention that there should have been. Remnants of the Quebec Bridge legend still exist in Canada.\n\nThe Iron Ring is worn on the little finger (\"pinky\") of the working (dominant) hand. There, the facets act as a sharp reminder of one's obligation while the engineer works, because it could drag on the writing surface while the engineer is drawing or writing. This is particularly true of recently obligated engineers, whose rings bear sharp, unworn, facets. Protocol dictates that the rings should be returned by retired engineers or by the families of deceased engineers. Some camps offer previously obligated or \"experienced\" rings, but they are now rare due to medical and practical complications.\n\nThe Ring itself is small and understated, designed as a constant reminder, rather than a piece of jewelry. The Rings were originally hammered manually with a rough outer surface. The modern machined ring design is unique, a reminder of the manual process. Twelve half-circle facets are carved into the top and bottom of the outer surface, with the two sets of facets offset rotationally by fifteen degrees.\n\nThe Ritual of the Calling of an Engineer is the ceremony where Iron Rings are given to graduating engineers who choose to obligate themselves to the highest professionalism and humility of their profession. It is a symbol that reflects the moral, ethical and professional commitment made by the engineer who wears the ring. The ceremonies are private affairs with no publicity. Invitations to attend are extended to local engineering alumni and professional engineers by those who are scheduled to participate. For some schools, the invitation to witness the ceremony is open to anyone in the engineering profession, and non-obligated engineers may not participate in the ritual. Some graduating engineers choose to receive a ring passed on from a relative or mentor, giving the ceremony a personal touch.\n\nBased upon the success of the Iron Ring in Canada, a similar program was created in the United States, where the Order of the Engineer was founded in 1970. The organization conducts similar ring ceremonies at a number of U.S. colleges, in which the recipient signs an \"Obligation of the Engineer\" and receives a stainless steel Engineer's Ring (which, unlike the Canadian Iron Ring, can be smooth and not faceted). The first such ceremony occurred on June 4, 1970, at the Cleveland State University under the supervision of Lloyd Chancy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7469830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7469830", "title": "Jiko Linda Cutts", "text": "Jiko Linda Cutts\n\nEijun Linda Cutts (born 1947) is a Sōtō Zen priest practicing in the lineage of Shunryu Suzuki, a Senior Dharma Teacher at the San Francisco Zen Center. Cutts is a Dharma heir of Tenshin Reb Anderson, having received Dharma transmission from him in 1996. She served as co-abbess of the San Francisco Zen Center from 2000 to 2007, and had first begun practice at the San Francisco Zen Center in 1971; later, she was ordained a priest by Zentatsu Richard Baker in 1975. Currently living at Green Gulch Farm Zen Center, as abbess she had been aware of the significance in being a woman in a leadership position in religion that has historically been a patriarchy. In this vein, within her first year as abbess she instituted the ceremony in which female ancestors could be honored. She became Central Abbess of San Francisco Zen Center in 2014. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51109343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51109343", "title": "John Olubi Sodipo", "text": "John Olubi Sodipo\n\nJohn Olubi Sodipo (October 15, 1935–December 4, 1999), was a Nigerian philosopher.\nEducated at Remo Secondary School, Sagamu, 1948–53, the University of Ibadan, 1956–1960, and at the Durham University, England, 1961–1964,\nSodipo lectured in philosophy at the University of Lagos from 1966,\nand taught at the Obafemi Awolowo University from 1968 to 1982, where he became the first professor in African philosophy and served as First Head of Department of Philosophy.\nHe became the first Vice Chancellor for the Ogun State University when it opened in 1982.\nSodipo was editor of \"Second Order: An African Journal of Philosophy\".\n"}
{"id": "24699742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24699742", "title": "Joseph Runzo", "text": "Joseph Runzo\n\nJoseph Runzo is an American professor publishing mainly in the area of a global philosophy of religion. He is currently Life Fellow at Clare Hall, Cambridge University.\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "28863539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28863539", "title": "Jules Coleman", "text": "Jules Coleman\n\nJules Leslie Coleman (born 1947) is a scholar of law and jurisprudence. He was the Wesley Newcomb Hohfeld Professor of Jurisprudence and Professor of Philosophy at Yale Law School until 2012. Now retired, he most recently served as the Senior Vice Provost for Academic Planning at New York University.\n\nColeman received his B.A. from Brooklyn College of CUNY in 1968, his Ph.D in Philosophy from Rockefeller University in 1972, and his M.S.L. from the Yale Law School in 1976. He taught classes at Yale on philosophy of law; torts; law, language and truth; political philosophy; and rational choice. Coleman briefly served on the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley and returned there again later in his career to teach philosophy in the Jurisprudence and Social Policy program. In 1988, he received the Brooklyn College Distinguished Alumni Award and was granted a Guggenheim Fellowship. He was selected to deliver the Clarendon Lectures at the University of Oxford.\n\nColeman is also known for his audiophilia and has published occasionally on the subject of music and sound systems.\n\nColeman's brother is the fiction writer Reed Farrel Coleman.\n\nJules Coleman has published extensively in legal journals and is the author of several books. His works include:\n\n\nColeman is best known for his espousal of legal positivism.\n\n"}
{"id": "5705224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5705224", "title": "Julius Guttmann", "text": "Julius Guttmann\n\nJulius Guttmann (Hebrew: יוליוס גוטמן), born Yitzchak Guttmann (April 15, 1880 in Hildesheim – May 19, 1950 in Jerusalem), was a German-born rabbi, Jewish theologian, and philosopher of religion.\n\nJulius was born to Rabbi Jakob Guttmann (1845–1919) while Jakob served as Chief Rabbi at Hildesheim during the years 1874-1892, when Hildesheim still had a large Jewish population. Jakob himself published papers on a number of philosophical topics. The family moved to Breslau in 1880.\n\nJulius received his basic training at the Breslau Rabbinical Seminary and the University of Breslau. He was Lecturer at Breslau from 1910–1919, and Lecturer at the Hochschule for the Academic Study of Judaism (The Reform Seminary) in Berlin from 1919-1934. At that time, he became Professor of Jewish Philosophy at Hebrew University, a position which he held until his death.\n\nGuttmann is best known for \"Die Philosophie des Judentums\" (Reinhardt, 1933), translations of which are available in Hebrew, Spanish, English, Japanese, etc. The English title is \"The Philosophy of Judaism: The History of Jewish Philosophy from Biblical Times to Franz Rosenzweig\"\n\nThe original German edition of \"Philosophie des Judentums\" ends with Hermann Cohen, the primary influence on Guttman's own philosophy, while the later Hebrew edition includes Franz Rosenzweig. It is also notable that Guttman's work excludes major thinkers of the Kabbalistic school, which reflects his own attitude toward Jewish philosophy (Werblowsky 1964).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7783443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7783443", "title": "LZJB", "text": "LZJB\n\nLZJB is a lossless data compression algorithm invented by Jeff Bonwick to compress crash dumps and data in ZFS. The software is CDDL license licensed. It includes a number of improvements to the LZRW1 algorithm, a member of the Lempel–Ziv family of compression algorithms.. The name LZJB is derived from its parent algorithm and its creator—Lempel Ziv Jeff Bonwick. Bonwick is also one of two architects of ZFS, and the creator of the Slab Allocator.\n\n"}
{"id": "5063049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5063049", "title": "List of Romanian philosophers", "text": "List of Romanian philosophers\n\nThis is a list of Romanian philosophers.\n\n"}
{"id": "28784645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28784645", "title": "List of volunteer awards", "text": "List of volunteer awards\n\nThis is a list of awards issued by organisations and governmental bodies honoring the contributions of volunteers (unpaid staff). Whereas many organisations honor volunteers who serve within those individual organisations, these awards listed here recognize volunteers contributing to a variety of nonprofit organisations, non-governmental organisations, charities, civil society organizations and communities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCity University London hosts an annual volunteer awards ceremony. In 2015 there were 7 award categories which included Volunteer of the Year which was awarded to Siobhan Tatum, Team Player awarded to Valentina Aronica and Leadership in Volunteering was secured by Ken Hy. www.islingtontribune.com/news/2015/apr/volunteering-awards-salute-‘inspiring’-city-university-students\n\n"}
{"id": "10890867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10890867", "title": "Luigi Pareyson", "text": "Luigi Pareyson\n\nLuigi Pareysón (4 February 1918 – 18 September 1991) was an Italian philosopher. \n\nLuigi Pareyson was born on 4 February 1918, in Piasco, in the province of Cuneo. He received his doctorate from the University of Turin in 1939, finishing his degree with a dissertation entitled \"Karl Jaspers and the Philosophy of Existence.\" As a professor at the University of Turin, he had many famous students, including Mario Perniola, Gianni Vattimo, and Umberto Eco. He died in Milan on 18 September 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57732622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57732622", "title": "MFEM", "text": "MFEM\n\nMFEM is an open-source C++ library for solving partial differential equations using the finite element method, developed and maintained by researchers at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. MFEM is free software released under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL-2.1).\n\nThe library consists of C++ classes that serve as building blocks for developing finite element solvers applicable to problems of fluid dynamics, structural mechanics, electromagnetics, radiative transfer and many others.\n\nMFEM is part of the Center for Efficient Exascale Discretizations in the Exascale Computing Project, the FASTMath institute in the SciDAC program, the Extreme-scale Scientific Software Development Kit, and the OpenHPC distribution.\n\nSome of the features of MFEM include\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1609950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1609950", "title": "Mabel Besant-Scott", "text": "Mabel Besant-Scott\n\nMabel Emily Besant-Scott (\"Mabs\") (28 August 1870 in Leckhampton, Cheltenham – 22 May 1952 in Folkestone, Kent) was a Theosophist, Co-Freemason and Rosicrucian.\n\nShe was the daughter of the famous Theosophist, Secularist, and Co-Freemason Annie Besant and her husband Rev. Frank Besant. She had an older brother named Arthur Besant.\n\nIn 1892 Mabel married a journalist named Ernest Scott at Marylebone, London. They emigrated to Australia where she had a daughter, Muriel, and became a Roman Catholic. She returned to England with Muriel in 1909 but Scott did not sue for divorce until 1915. For some time she assisted her mother in both British Co-Masonry and the Theosophical Society Adyar. \n\nAfter her mother’s death, Mabel Besant-Scott briefly became the head of the British Federation of Co-Freemasonry. A year later she abruptly resigned from Co-Freemasonry, joining the Rosicrucian Order Crotona Fellowship shortly afterwards and taking with her some of her followers from Co-Masonry. She was one of the most active members of this Rosicrucian theatre near Christchurch, which was led by George Alexander Sullivan.\n"}
{"id": "38279952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38279952", "title": "Mamaidev", "text": "Mamaidev\n\nThe Mamaidev was a philosopher born in India in the 12th century. He was the son of Mataidev, who was the son of Lurangdev, who was the son of Dhani Matang Dev. He preached religion to the Maheshwari meghwar community of Saurashtra, Kutch of Gujarat and Sindh, Pakistan. During his preaching he spoke of past events and made prophecies regarding the future. He also preached to the poor Sinbhariya Meghwar for Dharma. He described and formulated ancient Barmati Panth. His tomb is located in Makali Graveyard in the Tattha district of Sindh in India.\n\nMamaidev Vedas (verses) addresses the past, present and future of the world in relation to the four Yuga cycle.\n\nMamaidev talked about the theory of the origin of the universe in his Vedas, when God disintegrated himself to create the universe. He said that the creation of the universe was not a process of creation but rather the process of disintegration by God:\n\nMamaidev composed the following verse of scripture, shown in Gujarati: \nVed' (Gujarati language):\n\nWhich, translated to English means:\n\nVerse:\n\nTranslation:\n\nVerse:\n\nTranslation:\n\nVerse:\n\nTranslation:\n\nVerse:\n\nTranslation:\n\n"}
{"id": "7769870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7769870", "title": "Mu'ayyad fi'l-Din al-Shirazi", "text": "Mu'ayyad fi'l-Din al-Shirazi\n\nAl-Mu'ayyad fid-din Abu Nasr Hibat Allah b. Abi 'Imran Musa b. Da'ud ash-Shirazi (1000 CE/390 AH - 1078 CE/470 AH) was an 11th-century Isma'ilism scholar, philosopher-poet, preacher and theologian of Persian origin. He served the Fatimid Caliph-Imām al-Mustansir Billah as a \"Da'i\" in varying capacities, eventually attaining the highest rank of \"Bab al-Abwab\" \"The Gate of Gates\" and \"Da‘i al-Du‘at\" \"Chief Missionary\" in the Fatimid \"Da‘wah\". In his theological and philosophical writings he brought the Isma'ili spiritual heritage to its pinnacle.\n\nAl-Mu'ayyad was born in Shiraz not later than 387/997 and died in Cairo Shawwal,470 AH/ 1078 AD. He lived during the time of the Fatimid Caliphs Al-Hakim (386-412 AH/ 996-1021 AD), Az-Zahir (412-427 AH/1021-1036 AD) and Al-Mustansir (427-48AH/ 1036-1094AD). He was buried in the Dar al-ilm where he had resided, worked and died.\n\nAl-Muayyad's real name was Hibatullah ibn Musa, born in the town of Shiraz, capital of the Fars Province (then Persia, now in modern-day Iran), in the year 1000 CE. His father, Musa ibn Dawud, served under the Fatimid Caliph-Imam al-Hakim bi Amr Allah as the Chief Missionary of the province of Fars, where the Isma'ili mission was active. Al-Muayyad was \"contemporary with the changeover from the Buyid to the Saljuq Sultanate under the Abbasid Caliphate, as well as the Arab bedouin Hilalian invasion of North Africa, the Fatimiid encouraged invasion of Baghdad by al-Basasiri, the Battle of Manzikert in Anatolia, the rise of the Sulayhids of Yaman and the advent of the Armnenian General Badr al-Jamali in Egypt\".\n\nDuring the reign of the Fatimid Caliph-Imam Ali az-Zahir, Hibatullah ibn Musa was permitted to take over the \"da'wah\" office from his father. His title, \"Al-Mu'ayyad fi d-Din\" \"The one aided in religion\", was probably accorded to him around this time.\n\nAl-Mu'ayyad was appointed to the Diwan al-insha' (secretariat) in 440 AH/1048 AD on a monthly salary of 1000 dinars and wrote the religious sermons (al-Majalis) for al-Yazuri. (as-Sira, 89-90) Al-Mu'ayyad gives us an interesting information about the presence of a Buyid Prince Abu 'Ali in the Fatimid Court (as-Siras 87).\n\nAl-Muayyad (Hibatullah) gradually worked his way up the hierarchy of the \"da‘wa\" and was eventually appointed Chief Missionary under the Caliph-Imam al-Mustansir Billah. In this position, he worked at the \"Dar al-'Ilm\" \"House of Knowledge\" teaching missionaries from both inside and outside the Fatimid Empire and composing his theological works until the end of his life in 1078 CE.\n\nThe primary source for details of Al-Mu'ayyad's life are his own memoirs, the \"Sirat al-Mu'ayyad fi d-Din\", which was written in three stages between the years 1051 and 1063 CE. He is also mentioned in the works of Nasir Khusraw, another prominent Isma'ili scholar of the time, who had learned under al-Mu'ayyad. In a poem written in 455/1063 (Diwan, 173-177) Nasir praises al-Mua-yyad as his master (teacher) and refers to him as the \"Warden of the Gate\" (Bab). There are other direct references in Nasir's Diwan (313-314).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57956164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57956164", "title": "Ngô Thì Sĩ", "text": "Ngô Thì Sĩ\n\nNgô Thì Sĩ (吳時仕, 1726 – 1780) was an 18th-century Vietnamese scholar, historian and government official.\n\nHe passed court examination and awarded \"hoàng giáp\" in 1766, then served as \"Hiệu lý Viện Hàn\" to proofread the national history.\n\nSĩ is known for being the principal compiler of the \"Việt sử tiêu án\", \"Đại Việt sử ký tiền biên\" and \"Đại Việt sử ký tục biên\". He was the first man who regarded Triệu dynasty as a separate regime of China instead of a legitimate dynasty of Vietnam.\n\nSĩ had four sons: Ngô Thì Nhậm, Ngô Thì Chí, Ngô Thì Trí, Ngô Thì Hương, and a son-in-law Phan Huy Ích. All of them were scholars.\n"}
{"id": "43303559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43303559", "title": "Nomology", "text": "Nomology\n\nIn philosophy, nomology (from the Greek νόμος, \"law\", and λόγος, \"reason\") is concerned with the thinking process of the mind. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines nomology as the 'branch of science and philosophy concerned with the laws or principles governing the operation of the mind, especially as defined by custom or culture'.\n\nThe name nomology may come from Aristotle (Aristotle, 1995). The ‘-ology’ suffix implies ‘order’, ‘word’ and ‘reason’, and is about being subjectively reasonable or ‘logical’ as in sociology and psychology. The ‘nom-’ part implies ‘rule’ and ‘law’, and is about being objectively lawful or ‘nomical’ as in economics. A nomological approach requires taking account of both subjective and objective aspects in a decision. Nomology provides the framework for building a nomological network of relationships between constructs in decision making.\n\nIn 19th century nomology has been described as one of two grand divisions of philosophy, the other being metaphysics.\n\n\"The Laws by which our faculties are governed, to the end that we may obtain a criterion by which to judge or to explain their procedures and manifestations, we have a science which we may call the Nomology of Mind, - Nomological Psychology”.\n"}
{"id": "302645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302645", "title": "Originalism", "text": "Originalism\n\nIn the context of United States law, originalism is a concept regarding the interpretation of the Constitution that asserts that all statements in the constitution must be interpreted based on the original understanding of the authors or the people at the time it was ratified. This concept views the Constitution as stable from the time of enactment, and that the meaning of its contents can be changed only by the steps set out in Article Five. This notion stands in contrast to the concept of the living constitution, which asserts that the Constitution is intended to be interpreted based on the context of the current times, even if such interpretation is different from the original interpretations of the document.\n\nThe term originated in the 1980s. Originalism is an umbrella term for interpretative methods that hold to the \"fixation thesis\", the notion that an utterance's semantic content is fixed at the time it is uttered. Originalists seek one of two alternative sources of meaning:\n\nSuch theories share the view that there is an identifiable original intent or original meaning, contemporaneous with the ratification of a constitution or statute, which should govern its subsequent interpretation. The divisions between the theories relate to what exactly that identifiable original intent or original meaning is: the intentions of the authors or the ratifiers, the original meaning of the text, a combination of the two, or the original meaning of the text but not its expected application.\n\nBret Boyce described the origins of the term \"originalist\" as follows: The term \"originalism\" has been most commonly used since the middle 1980s and was apparently coined by Paul Brest in \"The Misconceived Quest for the Original Understanding\". It is often asserted that \"originalism\" is synonymous with \"strict constructionism\".\nBoth theories are associated with textualist and formalist schools of thought, however there are pronounced differences between them. Scalia differentiated the two by pointing out that, unlike an originalist, a strict constructionist would not acknowledge that \"he uses a cane\" means \"he walks with a cane\" (because, strictly speaking, this is not what \"he uses a cane\" means). Scalia averred that he was \"not a strict constructionist, and no-one ought to be\"; he goes further, calling strict constructionism \"a degraded form of textualism that brings the whole philosophy into disrepute\".\n\nOriginalism is a theory of \"interpretation\", not \"construction\". However, this distinction between \"interpretation\" and \"construction\" is controversial and is rejected by many nonoriginalists as artificial. As Scalia said, \"the Constitution, or any text, should be interpreted [n]either strictly [n]or sloppily; it should be interpreted reasonably\"; once originalism has told a Judge what the provision of the Constitution means, they are bound by that meaning—however the business of Judging is not simply to know what the text means (interpretation), but to take the law's necessarily general provisions and apply them to the specifics of a given case or controversy (construction). In many cases, the meaning might be so specific that no discretion is permissible, but in many cases, it is still before the Judge to say what a reasonable interpretation might be. A judge could, therefore, be both an originalist \"and\" a strict constructionist—but he is not one by virtue of being the other.\n\nOriginalism is actually a family of related views. As a movement, originalism can be traced to Robert Bork's \"Neutral Principles and Some First Amendment Problems\", published in the \"Indiana Law Journal\" in January 1971. However, it was not until the 1980s, when conservative jurists began to take seats on the Supreme Court, that the debate really began in earnest. \"Old originalism\" focused primarily on \"intent\", mostly by default. But that line was largely abandoned in the early 1990s; as \"new originalism\" emerged; most adherents subscribed to \"original meaning\" originalism, though there are some intentionalists within new originalism.\n\nThe \"original form of originalism\" is sometimes called intentionalism, or \"original intent\" originalism, and looked for the subjective intent of a law's enactors. One problem with this approach is identifying the relevant \"lawmaker\" whose intent is sought. For instance, the authors of the U.S. Constitution could be the particular Founding Fathers that drafted it, such as those on the Committee of Detail. Or, since the Constitution purports to originate from the People, one could look to the various state ratifying conventions. The intentionalist methodology involves studying the writings of its authors, or the records of the Philadelphia Convention, or debates in the state legislatures, for clues as to their intent.\n\nThere are two kinds of \"intent analysis\", reflecting two meanings of the word \"intent\". The first, a rule of common law construction during the Founding Era, is \"functional\" intent. The second is \"motivational\" intent. To understand the difference, one can use the metaphor of an architect who designs a Gothic church with flying buttresses. The functional intent of flying buttresses is to prevent the weight of the roof from spreading the walls and causing a collapse of the building, which can be inferred from examining the design as a whole. The motivational intent might be to create work for his brother-in-law who is a flying buttress subcontractor. Using original intent analysis of the first kind, we can discern that the language of Article III of the U.S. Constitution was to delegate to Congress the power to allocate original and appellate jurisdictions, and not to remove some jurisdiction, involving a constitutional question, from all courts. That would suggest that the decision was wrong in \"Ex Parte McCardle\".\n\nHowever, a number of problems are inherent in intentionalism, and \"a fortiori\" when that theory is applied to the Constitution. For example, most of the Founders did not leave detailed discussions of what their intent was in 1787, and while a few did, there is no reason to think that they should be dispositive of what the rest thought. Moreover, the discussions of the drafters may have been recorded; however they were not available to the ratifiers in each state. The theory of original intent was challenged in a string of law review articles in the 1980s. Specifically, original intent was seen as lacking good answers to three important questions: whether a diverse group such as the framers even \"had\" a single intent; if they \"did\", whether it could be determined from two centuries' distance; and whether the framers themselves would have supported original intent.\n\nIn response to this, a different strain of originalism, articulated by (among others) Antonin Scalia, Robert Bork, and Randy Barnett, came to the fore. This is dubbed original \"meaning\".\n\nJustice Oliver Wendell Holmes argued that interpreting what was meant by someone who wrote a law was not trying to \"get into his mind\" because the issue was \"not what this man meant, but what those words would mean in the mouth of a normal speaker of English, using them in the circumstances in which they were used.\" This is the essential precept of modern originalism.\n\nThe most robust and widely cited form of originalism, \"original meaning\", emphasizes how the text would have been understood by a reasonable person in the historical period during which the constitution was proposed, ratified, and first implemented. For example, economist Thomas Sowell notes that phrases like \"due process\" and \"freedom of the press\" had a long established meaning in English law, even before they were put into the Constitution of the United States.\" Applying this form involves studying dictionaries and other writings of the time (for example, Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\"; see \"Matters rendered moot by originalism\", \"infra\") to establish what particular terms meant. See \"Methodology\", infra).\n\nJustice Scalia, one of the most forceful modern advocates for originalism, defined himself as belonging to the latter category:\nThough there may be no evidence that the Founding Fathers intended the Constitution to be like a statute, this fact does not matter under Scalia's approach. Adherence to original meaning is explicitly divorced from the intent of the Founders; rather, the reasons for adhering to original meaning derive from other justifications, such as the argument that the understanding of the ratifiers (the people of the several States at the time of the adoption of the Constitution) should be controlling, as well as consequentialist arguments about original meaning's positive effect on rule of law.\n\nPerhaps the clearest example illustrating the importance of the difference between original intent and original meaning is the Twenty-seventh Amendment. The Twenty-seventh Amendment was proposed as part of the Bill of Rights in 1791, but failed to be ratified by the required number of states for two centuries, eventually being ratified in 1992. An original intent inquiry might ask what the framers understood the amendment to mean when it was written, though some would argue that it was the intent of the latter-day ratifiers that is important. An original-meaning inquiry would ask what the plain, public meaning of the text was in 1992 when it was eventually ratified.\n\n\"Semantic-originalism\" is Ronald Dworkin's term for the theory that the original meaning of many statutes implies that those statutes prohibit certain acts widely considered not to be prohibited by the statutes at the time of their passages. This type of originalism contrasts with \"expectations originalism\", which adheres to how the statutes functioned at the times of their passages, without any expectation that they would function in any other particular ways.\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia and other originalists often claim that the death penalty is not \"cruel and unusual punishment\" because at the time of the Eighth Amendment's passage, it was a punishment believed to be neither cruel nor unusual. Dworkin and the semantic-originalists assert, however, that if advances in moral philosophy (presuming that such advances are possible) reveal that the death penalty is in fact \"cruel and unusual\", then the original meaning of the Eighth Amendment implies that the death penalty is unconstitutional. All the same, Justice Scalia purported to follow semantic originalism, although he conceded that Dworkin does not believe Scalia was true to that calling.\n\nFramework Originalism is an approach developed by Jack Balkin, a professor of law at Yale Law School. Framework Originalism, or Living Originalism, is a blend of primarily two constitutional interpretive methods: originalism and Living Constitution. Balkin holds that there is no inherent contradiction between these two, aforementioned, interpretive approaches—when properly understood. Framework Originalists view the Constitution as an \"initial framework for governance that sets politics in motion.\" This \"framework\" must be built-out or filled-out over time, successive generations, by the various legislative and judicial branches. This process is achieved, primarily, through building political institutions, passing legislation, and creating precedents (both judicial and non-judicial). In effect, the process of building out the Constitution on top of the framework of the original meaning is living constitutionalism, the change of and progress of law over time to address particular (current) issues. The authority of the judiciary and of the political branches to engage in constitutional construction comes from their \"joint responsiveness to public opinion\" over long stretches of time, while operating within the basic framework of the original meaning. Balkin claims that through mechanisms of social influence, both judges and the political branches inevitably come to reflect and respond to changing social mores, norms, customs and (public) opinions.\n\nAccording to Framework originalism, interpreters should adhere to the original meaning of the Constitution, but are not necessarily required to follow the original expected application (although they may use it to create doctrines and decide cases). For example, states should extend the equal protection of the laws to all peoples, in cases where it would not originally or normally be applied to. Contemporary interpreters are not bound by how people in 1868 would have applied these words and meanings to issues such as racial segregation or (sexual) discrimination, largely due to the fact the fourteenth amendment is concerned with such issues (as well as the fact that the fourteenth amendment was not proposed or ratified by the founders). When the Constitution uses or applies principles or standards, like \"equal protection\" or \"unreasonable searches and seizures,\" further construction is usually required, by either the judiciary, the executive or legislative branch. Therefore, Balkin claims, (pure, unadulterated) originalism is not sufficient to decide a wide range of cases or controversies. Judges, he posits, will have to \"engage in considerable constitutional construction as well as the elaboration and application of previous constructions.\" For example, originalism (in and of itself), is not sufficient enough to constrain judicial behavior. Constraint itself does not just come from doctrine or canons, it also comes from institutional, political, and cultural sources. These constraints include: multi-member or panel courts (where the balance of power lies with moderate judges); the screening of judges through the federal judicial appointment process; social and cultural influences on the judiciary (which keep judges attuned and attentive to popular opinions and the political will of the people); and prevailing professional legal culture and professional conceptions of the role of the judiciary (which produce social norms or mores). These constraints ensure that judges act as impartial arbiters of the law and to try to behave in a principled manner, as it applies to decision making.\n\nIn \"The Original Meaning of the Recess Appointments Clause\", Michael B. Rappaport described the methodology associated with the \"original meaning\" form of originalism as follows:\n\n\nOriginalism, in all its various forms, is predicated on a specific view of what the Constitution \"is\", a view articulated by Chief Justice John Marshall in \"Marbury v. Madison\":\nOriginalism assumes that \"Marbury\" is correct: the Constitution is the \"operating charter\" granted to government by the people, as per the preamble to the United States Constitution, and its written nature introduces a certain discipline into its interpretation. Originalism further assumes that the need for such a written charter was derived from the perception, on the part of the Framers, of the abuses of power under the (unwritten) British Constitution, under which the Constitution was essentially whatever Parliament decided it should be. In writing out a Constitution which explicitly granted the government certain authorities, and withheld from it others, and in which power was balanced between multiple agencies (the Presidency, two chambers of Congress and the Supreme Court at the national level, and State governments of the United States with similar branches), the intention of the Framers was to restrain government, originalists argue, and the value of such a document is nullified if that document's meaning is not fixed. As one author stated, \"If the constitution can mean anything, then the constitution is reduced to meaninglessness.\"\n\nDissenting in \"Romer v. Evans\", Scalia wrote:\nThis statement summarizes the role for the court envisioned by originalists, that is, that the Court parses what the general law and constitution says of a particular case or controversy, and when questions arise as to the meaning of a given constitutional provision, that provision should be given the meaning it was understood to mean when ratified. Reviewing Steven D Smith's book \"Law's Quandary\", Scalia applied this formulation to some controversial topics routinely brought before the Court:\nIn \"Marbury\", Chief Justice John Marshall established that the Supreme Court could invalidate laws which violated the Constitution (that is, judicial review), which helped establish the Supreme Court as having its own distinct sphere of influence within the federal government. However, this power was itself balanced with the requirement that the Court could only invalidate legislation if it was \"unconstitutional\". Originalists argue that the modern court no longer follows this requirement. They argue that—since \"U.S. v. Darby\", in which Justice Stone (writing for a unanimous Court) ruled that the Tenth Amendment had no legal meaning—the Court has increasingly taken to making rulings in which the Court has determined not what the Constitution \"says\", but rather, the Court has sought to determine what is \"morally correct\" at \"this\" point in the nation's history, in terms of \"the evolving standards of decency\" (and considering \"the context of international jurisprudence\"), and then justified that determination through a \"creative reading\" of the text. This latter approach is frequently termed \"the Living constitution\"; Scalia inveighed that \"the worst thing about the living constitution is that it will destroy the constitution\".\n\nOriginalists are sharply critical of the use of \"the evolving standards of decency\" (a term which first appeared in \"Trop v. Dulles\") and of reference to the opinions of courts in foreign countries (excepting treaties to which the United States is a signatory, per Article II, Section 2, Clause 2 of the United States Constitution) in Constitutional interpretation.\n\nIn an originalist interpretation, if the meaning of the Constitution is static, then any ex post facto information (such as the opinions of the American people, American judges, or the judiciaries of any foreign country) is inherently valueless for interpretation of the meaning of the Constitution, and should not form any part of constitutional jurisprudence. The Constitution is thus fixed and has procedures defining how it can be changed.\n\nThe exception to the use of foreign law is the English common law, which originalists regard as setting the philosophical stage for the US Constitution and the American common and civil law. Hence, an originalist might cite Blackstone's \"Commentaries\" to establish the meaning of the term \"due process\" as it would have been understood at the time of ratification.\n\nArguments for and against Originalism should be read in conjunction with alternative views and rebuttals, presented in footnotes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42655834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42655834", "title": "Ross Harrison (academic)", "text": "Ross Harrison (academic)\n\nRoss Harrison (born 1943) is a British philosopher and academic. He served as Provost of King's College, Cambridge from 2006 to 2013. He was previously Quain Professor of Jurisprudence at University College London.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "526931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526931", "title": "Rudolf Bultmann", "text": "Rudolf Bultmann\n\nRudolf Karl Bultmann (; 20 August 1884 – 30 July 1976) was a German Lutheran theologian and professor of New Testament at the University of Marburg. He was one of the major figures of early-20th-century biblical studies and a prominent voice in liberal Christianity.\n\nBultmann is known for his belief that the historical analysis of the New Testament is both futile and unnecessary, given that the earliest Christian literature showed little interest in specific locations. Bultmann argued that all that matters is the \"thatness\", not the \"whatness\" of Jesus, i.e. only \"that\" Jesus existed, preached, and died by crucifixion matters, not what happened throughout his life.\n\nBultmann relied on demythologization, an approach interpreting the mythological elements in the New Testament existentially. Bultmann contended that only faith in the kerygma, or proclamation, of the New Testament was necessary for Christian faith, not any particular facts regarding the historical Jesus.\n\nBultmann was born on 20 August 1884 in Wiefelstede, Oldenburg, the son of Arthur Kennedy Bultmann, a Lutheran minister. He did his \"Abitur\" at the \"Altes Gymnasium\" in the city of Oldenburg, and studied theology at Tübingen. After three terms, Bultmann went to the University of Berlin for two terms, and finally to Marburg for two more terms. He received his degree in 1910 from Marburg with a dissertation on the Epistles of St Paul, written under the supervision of Johannes Weiss. After submitting a Habilitation two years later, he became a lecturer on the New Testament at Marburg.\n\nBultmann married Helene Feldmann on 6 August 1917. The couple had three daughters. Bultmnn's wife died in 1973.\n\nAfter brief lectureships at Breslau and Giessen, Bultmann returned to Marburg in 1921 as a full professor, and stayed there until his retirement in 1951. From autumn 1944 until the end of the Second World War in 1945 he took into his family Uta Ranke-Heinemann, who had fled the bombs and destruction in Essen.\n\nBultmann was a student of Hermann Gunkel, Johannes Weiss, and Wilhelm Heitmüller. His doctoral students included Hans Jonas, Ernst Käsemann, Günther Bornkamm, Helmut Koester, and Ernst Fuchs. He also taught Hannah Arendt.\n\nHe was a member of the Confessing Church and critical towards Nazism. He spoke out against the mistreatment of Jews, against nationalistic excesses and against the dismissal of non-Aryan Christian ministers. He did not, however, speak out against \"the antiSemitic[sic] laws which had already been promulgated\" and he was philosophically limited in his ability to \"repudiate, in a comprehensive manner, the central tenets of Nazi racism and antiSemitism[sic].\"\n\nBultmann became friends with Martin Heidegger who taught at Marburg for five years, and Heidegger's views on existentialism had an influence on Bultmann's thinking. However, Bultmann himself stated that his views could not simply be reduced to thinking in Heideggerian categories, in that \"the New Testament is not a doctrine about our nature, about our authentic existence as human beings, but a proclamation of this liberating act of God.\"\n\nHe died on 30 July 1976 in Marburg.\n\nBultmann's \"History of the Synoptic Tradition\" (1921) remains highly influential as a tool for biblical research, even among scholars who reject his analyses of the conventional rhetorical pericopes (narrative units) which comprise the gospels, and the historically-oriented principles of \"form criticism\" of which Bultmann was the most influential exponent.\nAccording to Bultmann's definition, \"[t]he aim of form-criticism [\"sic\"] is to determine the original form of a piece of narrative, a dominical saying or a parable. In the process we learn to distinguish secondary additions and forms, and these in turn lead to important results for the history of the tradition.\"\nIn 1941 Bultmann applied form criticism to the Gospel of John, in which he distinguished the presence of a lost Signs Gospel on which John - alone of the evangelists - depended. His monograph, \"Das Evangelium des Johannes\", highly controversial at the time, became a milestone in research into the historical Jesus. The same year his lecture \"New Testament and Mythology: The Problem of Demythologizing the New Testament Message\" called on interpreters to replace traditional supernaturalism (demythologize) with the temporal and existential categories of Bultmann's colleague, Martin Heidegger, rejecting doctrines such as the pre-existence of Christ. Bultmann believed this endeavor would make accessible to modern audiences—already immersed in science and technology—the reality of Jesus' teachings. Bultmann thus understood the project of \"demythologizing the New Testament proclamation\" as an evangelical task, clarifying the \"kerygma\", or gospel proclamation, by stripping it of elements of the first-century \"mythical world picture\" that had potential to alienate modern people from Christian faith:\nIt is impossible to repristinate a past world picture by sheer resolve, especially a \"mythical\" world picture, now that all of our thinking is irrevocably formed by science. A blind acceptance of New Testament mythology would be simply arbitrariness; to make such acceptance a demand of faith would be to reduce faith to a work.\nBultmann said about salvation and eternity: \"As from now on there are only believers and unbelievers, so there are also now only saved and lost, those who have life and those who are in death.\"\n\nWhile Bultmann reinterpreted theological language in existential terms, he nonetheless maintained that the New Testament proclaimed a message more radical than any modern existentialism. In both the boasting of legalists \"who are faithful to the law\" and the boasting of the philosophers \"who are proud of their wisdom\", Bultmann finds a \"basic human attitude\" of \"highhandedness that tries to bring within our own power even the submission that we know to be our authentic being\". Standing against all human high-handedness is the New Testament, \"which claims that we can in no way free ourselves from our factual fallenness in the world but are freed from it only by an act of God ... the salvation occurrence that is realized in Christ.\" Bultmann remained convinced that the narratives of the life of Jesus offered theology in story form, teaching lessons in the familiar language of myth. They were not to be excluded, but given explanation so they could be understood for today. Bultmann thought faith should become a present-day reality. To Bultmann, the people of the world appeared to be always in disappointment and turmoil. Faith must be a determined vital act of will, not a culling and extolling of \"ancient proofs\".\n\nBultmann carried form-criticism so far as to call the historical value of the gospels into serious question. Some scholars, such as Craig L. Blomberg, criticized Bultmann and other critics for excessive skepticism regarding the historical reliability of the gospel narratives. The full impact of Bultmann was felt with the English translation of many of his works, notably \"Kerygma and Mythos\" (1948).\n\n"}
{"id": "17919956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17919956", "title": "Rugged individualism", "text": "Rugged individualism\n\nRugged individualism, derived from \"individualism\", is a term that indicates the virtuous ideal where an individual is totally self-reliant and independent from outside assistance. Often associated with the notion of laissez-faire and its supporters, the term was actually coined by the interventionist American President Herbert Hoover, a Progressive Republican who presided over the beginning of the Great Depression.\n\n"}
{"id": "194913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194913", "title": "Shunryū Suzuki", "text": "Shunryū Suzuki\n\nShunryu Suzuki (鈴木 俊隆 \"Suzuki Shunryū\", dharma name \"Shōgaku Shunryū\" 祥岳俊隆, often called Suzuki Roshi; May 18, 1904 – December 4, 1971) was a Sōtō Zen monk and teacher who helped popularize Zen Buddhism in the United States, and is renowned for founding the first Buddhist monastery outside Asia (Tassajara Zen Mountain Center). Suzuki founded San Francisco Zen Center which, along with its affiliate temples, comprises one of the most influential Zen organizations in the United States. A book of his teachings, \"Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind\", is one of the most popular books on Zen and Buddhism in the West.\n\nShunryu Suzuki was born May 18, 1904. His father, Butsumon Sogaku Suzuki, was the abbot of the village Soto Zen temple. His mother Yone was the daughter of a priest and had been divorced from her first husband for being too independent. Shunryu grew up with an older half brother from his mother's first marriage and two younger sisters. As an adult he was about tall.\n\nHis father's temple, Shōgan-ji, was located near Hiratsuka, a city on Sagami Bay about fifty miles southwest of Tokyo. The temple income was small and the family had to be very thrifty.\n\nWhen Suzuki entered school he became aware that his family was very poor. Suzuki was sensitive and kind but prone to quick bursts of anger. The other boys ridiculed him for his shaved head and for being the son of a priest. He preferred staying in the classroom to playing in the schoolyard, and was always at the top of his class. His teacher told him that he should grow up to be a great man, and to do this he needed to leave Kanagawa Prefecture and study hard.\n\nIn 1916, 12-year-old Suzuki decided to train with a disciple of his father, Gyokujun So-on Suzuki. So-on was Sogaku's adopted son and abbot of Sokagu's former temple Zoun-in. His parents initially thought he was too young to live far from home but eventually allowed it.\n\nZoun-in is in a small village called Mori, Shizuoka in Japan. Suzuki arrived during a 100-day practice period at the temple and was the youngest student there. Zoun-in was a larger temple than Shōgan-ji.\n\nAt 4:00 each morning he arose for zazen. Next he would chant sutras and begin cleaning the temple with the others. They would work throughout the day and then, in the evenings, they all would resume zazen. Suzuki idolized his teacher, who was a strong disciplinarian. So-on often was rough on Suzuki but gave him some latitude for being so young.\n\nWhen Suzuki turned 13, on May 18, 1917, So-on ordained him as a novice monk (unsui). He was given the Buddhist name Shogaku Shunryu, yet So-on nicknamed him \"Crooked Cucumber\" for his forgetful and unpredictable nature.\n\nShunryu began again attending upper-elementary school in Mori, but So-on did not supply proper clothes for him. He was the subject of ridicule. In spite of his misfortune he didn't complain. Instead he doubled his efforts back at the temple.\n\nWhen Shunryu had first come to Zoun-in, eight other boys were studying there. By 1918, he was the only one who stayed. This made his life a bit tougher with So-on, who had more time to scrutinize him. During this period Suzuki wanted to leave Zoun-in but equally didn't want to give up.\n\nIn 1918 So-on was made head of a second temple, on the rim of Yaizu, called Rinso-in. Shunryu followed him there and helped whip the place back in order. Soon, families began sending their sons there and the temple began to come to life. Suzuki had failed an admissions test at the nearby school, so So-on began teaching the boys how to read and write Chinese.\n\nSo-on soon sent his students to train with a Rinzai master for a while. Here Shunryu studied a very different kind of Zen, one that promoted the attainment of satori through the concentration on koans through zazen. Suzuki had problems sitting with his koan. Meanwhile, all the other boys passed theirs, and he felt isolated. Just before the ceremony marking their departure Suzuki went to the Rinzai teacher and blurted out his answer. The master passed Suzuki; later Shunryu believed he had done it simply to be kind.\n\nIn 1919, at age 15, Suzuki was brought back home by his parents, who suspected mistreatment by So-on. Shunryu helped out with the temple while there and entered middle school. Yet, when summer vacation came, he was back at Rinso-in and Zoun-in with So-on to train and help out. He didn't want to stop training.\n\nIn school Suzuki took English and did quite well. A local doctor, Dr. Yoshikawa, hired him to tutor his two sons in English. Yoshikawa treated Suzuki well, giving him a wage and occasional advice.\n\nIn 1924 Shunryu enrolled in a Soto preparatory school in Tokyo not far from Shogan-ji, where he lived on the school grounds in the dorm. From 1925 to 1926 Suzuki did Zen training with Dojun Kato in Shizuoka at Kenko-in. He continued his schooling during this period. Here Shunryu became head monk for a 100-day retreat, after which he was no longer merely considered a novice. He had completed his training as a head monk.\n\nIn 1925 Shunryu graduated from preparatory school and entered Komazawa University, the Soto Zen university in Tokyo. During this period he continued his connections with So-on in Zoun-in, going back and forth whenever possible.\n\nSome of his teachers here were discussing how Soto Zen might reach a bigger audience with students and, while Shunryu couldn't comprehend how Western cultures could ever understand Zen, he was intrigued.\n\nOn August 26, 1926, So-on gave Dharma transmission to Suzuki. He was 22. Shunryu's father also retired as abbot at Shogan-ji this same year, and moved the family onto the grounds of Zoun-in where he served as inkyo (retired abbot).\n\nLater that year Suzuki spent a short time in the hospital with tuberculosis, but soon recovered. In 1927 an important chapter in Suzuki's life was turned. He went to visit a teacher in England he had at Komazawa named Miss Nona Ransom, a woman who had taught English to such people as the last emperor of China, Pu-yi, and more so his wife, the last empress of China, Jigoro Kano (the Founder of Judo), the children of Chinese president Li Yuanhong, and some members of the Japanese royal family. She hired him that day to be a translator and to help with errands. Through this period he realized she was very ignorant of Japanese culture and the religion of Buddhism. She respected it very little and saw it as idol worship. But one day, when there were no chores to be done, the two had a conversation on Buddhism that changed her mind. She even let Suzuki teach her zazen meditation. This experience is significant in that Suzuki realized that Western ignorance of Buddhism could be transformed.\n\nOn January 22, 1929, So-on retired as abbot of Zoun-in and installed Shunryu as its 28th abbot. Sogaku would run the temple for Shunryu. In January 1930 a \"ten'e\" ceremony was held at Zoun-in for Shunryu. This ceremony acknowledged So-on's Dharma transmission to Shunryu, and served as a formal way for the Soto heads to grant Shunryu permission to teach as a priest. On April 10, 1930, at age 25, Suzuki graduated from Komazawa Daigakurin with a major in Zen and Buddhist philosophy, and a minor in English.\n\nSuzuki mentioned to So-on during this period that he might be interested in going to America to teach Zen Buddhism. So-on was adamantly opposed to the idea. Suzuki realized that his teacher felt very close to him and that he would take such a departure as an insult. He did not mention it to him again.\n\nUpon graduation from Komazawa, So-on wanted Shunryu to continue his training at the well known Soto Zen temple Eihei-ji in Fukui Prefecture. In September 1930 Suzuki entered the training temple and underwent the Zen initiation known as tangaryo. His mother and father stayed on at Zoun-in to care for his temple in his absence.\n\nEihei-ji is one of the largest Zen training facilities in Japan, and the abbot at this time was Gempo Kitano-roshi. Prior to coming to Japan, Kitano was head of Soto Zen in Korea. He also was one of the founders of Zenshuji, a Soto Zen temple located in Los Angeles, California. Suzuki's father and Kitano had a tense history between them. Sogaku had trained with Kitano in his early Zen training and felt that he was such a high priest due to familial status and connections. Shunryu did not see this in Kitano, however. He saw a humble man who gave clear instruction, and Shunryu realized that his father was very wrong in his assessment.\n\nOften monks were assigned duties at the monastery to serve certain masters. Shunryu was assigned to Ian Kishizawa-roshi, a well known teacher at the time who had previously studied under two great Japanese teachers: Sōtan Oka and Bokusan Nishiari. He was a renowned scholar on Dōgen's Shōbōgenzō, and was also an acquaintance of his father from childhood.\n\nKishizawa was strict but not abusive, treating Suzuki well. Suzuki learned much from him, and Kishizawa saw a lot of potential in him. Through him Suzuki came to appreciate the importance of bowing in Zen practice through example. In December Suzuki sat his first true sesshin for 7 days, an ordeal that was challenging initially but proved rewarding toward the end. This concluded his first practice period at Eihei-ji.\n\nIn September 1931, after one more practice period and sesshin at Eihei-ji, So-on arranged for Suzuki to train in Yokohama at Sōji-ji. Sōji-ji was the other main Soto temple of Japan, and again Suzuki underwent the harsh tangaryo initiation. Sojiji was founded by the great Zen master Keizan and had a more relaxed atmosphere than Eihei-ji. At Sōji-ji Suzuki travelled back to Zoun-in frequently to attend to his temple.\n\nIn 1932 So-on came to Sōji-ji to visit with Shunryu and, after hearing of Suzuki's contentment at the temple, advised him to leave it. In April of that year Suzuki left Sōji-ji with some regret and moved back into Zoun-in, living with his family there. In May he visited with Ian Kishizawa from Eiheiji and, with So-on's blessing, asked to continue studies under him. He went to Gyokuden-in for his instruction, where Kishizawa trained him hard in zazen and conducted personal interviews with him.\n\nSometime during this period Suzuki married a woman who contracted tuberculosis. The date and name of the woman is unknown, but the marriage was soon annulled. She went back to live with her family while he focused on his duties at Zoun-in.\n\nSuzuki reportedly was involved with some anti-war activities during World War II, but according to David Chadwick, the record is confusing and, at most, his actions were low-key. However, considering the wholesale enthusiastic support for the war expressed by the entire religious establishment in Japan at the time, this fact is significant in showing something of the character of the man.\n\nOn May 23, 1959 Shunryu Suzuki arrived in San Francisco to attend to Soko-ji, at that time the sole Soto Zen temple in San Francisco. He was 55. Suzuki took over for the interim priest, Wako Kazumitsu Kato. Suzuki was taken aback by the Americanized and watered-down Buddhism practiced at the temple, mostly by older immigrant Japanese. He found American culture interesting and not too difficult to adjust to, even commenting once that \"if I knew it would be like this, I would have come here sooner!\" He was surprised to see that Sokoji was previously a Jewish synagogue (at 1881 Bush Street, now a historic landmark). His sleeping quarters were located upstairs, a windowless room with an adjoining office.\n\nAt the time of Suzuki's arrival, Zen had become a hot topic amongst some groups in the United States, especially beatniks. Particularly influential were several books on Zen and Buddhism by Alan Watts. Word began to spread about Suzuki among the beatniks through places like the San Francisco Art Institute and the American Academy of Asian Studies, where Alan Watts was once director. Kato had done some presentations at the Academy and asked Suzuki to come join a class he was giving there on Buddhism. This sparked Suzuki's long-held desire to teach Zen to Westerners.\n\nThe class was filled with people wanting to learn more about Buddhism, and the presence of a Zen master was inspiring for them. Suzuki had the class do zazen for 20 minutes, sitting on the floor without a zafu and staring forward at the white wall. In closing, Suzuki invited everyone to stop in at Sokoji for morning zazen. Little by little, more people showed up each week to sit zazen for 40 minutes with Suzuki on mornings. The students were improvising, using cushions borrowed from wherever they could find them.\n\nThe group that sat with Suzuki eventually formed the San Francisco Zen Center with Suzuki. The Zen Center flourished so that in 1966, at the behest and guidance of Suzuki, Zentatsu Richard Baker helped seal the purchase of Tassajara Hot Springs in Los Padres National Forest, which they called Tassajara Zen Mountain Center. In the fall of 1969, they bought a building at 300 Page Street near San Francisco's Lower Haight neighborhood and turned it into a Zen temple. Suzuki left his post at Sokoji to become the first abbot of one of the first Buddhist training monasteries outside Asia. Suzuki's departure from Sokoji was thought to be inspired by his dissatisfaction with the superficial Buddhist practice of the Japanese immigrant community and his preference for the American students who were more seriously interested in Zen meditation, but it was more at the insistence of the Sokoji board, which asked him to choose one or the other (he had tried to keep both roles). Although Suzuki thought there was much to learn from the study of Zen in Japan, he said that it had grown moss on its branches, and he saw his American students as a means to reform Zen and return it to its pure zazen- (meditation) and practice-centered roots.\n\nA collection of his teishos (Zen talks) was published in 1970 in the book \"Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind\" during Suzuki's lifetime. His lectures on the Sandokai are collected in \"Branching Streams Flow in the Darkness\", edited by Mel Weitsman and Michael Wenger and published in 1999. Edward Espe Brown edited \"Not Always So: Practicing the True Spirit of Zen\" which was published in 2002.\n\nA biography of Suzuki, titled \"Crooked Cucumber,\" was written by David Chadwick in 1999.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40803880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40803880", "title": "Society for Women in Philosophy", "text": "Society for Women in Philosophy\n\nThe Society for Women in Philosophy was created in 1972 to support and promote women in philosophy. Since that time the Society for Women in Philosophy or \"SWIP\" has expanded to many branches around the world, including in the US, Canada, Ireland, the UK, the Netherlands, Flanders, and Germany. SWIP organizations worldwide hold meetings and lectures that aim to support women in philosophy; some, such as SWIPshop, focus exclusively on feminist philosophy, while others, such as SWIP-Analytic, focus on women philosophers working in other areas. One of the founding members of the Society for Women in Philosophy was Alison Jaggar, who was also one of the first people to introduce feminist concerns into philosophy. Each year, one philosopher is named the Distinguished Woman Philosopher of the Year by the Society for Women in Philosophy.\n\nSome SWIP archive records were originally housed in the Sophia Smith Collection at the Smith College library (started in 1982 by Kathy Pyne Parsons Addelson following the 10th anniversary of SWIP). The official SWIP Archive will now be permanently housed in the Feminist Theory Archive, Pembroke Center, Brown University. The new SWIP home is the product of the efforts of the Feminist Philosophy Archive Project created in June 2013 and ending in July 2014. The main goal of the FPA Project team, composed of philosophers Joan Callahan, Ann Garry, Alison Jaggar, Sandra Harding, Christina Rawls, and Samantha Noll, was to locate and organize the best possible professional archive for over four decades of SWIP records to be preserved. As of December 2014, the American Philosophical Association awarded the Feminist Theory Archive, SWIP, and the FPAP organizing team financial assistance to aid in the processing and preservation of SWIP materials donated.\n\n\nEach year, one philosopher is named the Distinguished Woman Philosopher for the year by the Eastern Division of the Society for Women in Philosophy. In response to her 2011 Distinguished Woman Philosopher Award Jennifer Saul said, \"I'm deeply honored and absolutely stunned by this. It’s especially wonderful to be recognized as making a difference in people's lives by doing philosophy. For me, that's the highest honor there could be.\"\n\n\"\", published quarterly by Wiley-Blackwell has its roots in the Society for Women in Philosophy.\n\nIn the 1980s, while a graduate student at the City University of New York Graduate Center, Mary Ellen Waithe, now professor of philosophy and interim director of Women's Studies at Cleveland State University, \"came upon a reference to a work by Aegidius Menagius, Historia Mullierum Philosopharum, published in 1690 and 1692. [Waithe] had never heard of any women philosophers prior to the 20th century with the exceptions of Queen Christina of Sweden, known as Descartes' student, and Hildegard von Bingen, who lived in the 12th century.\" After she obtained a copy of this book, she discovered that \"many of the women [Menagius] listed as philosophers were astronomers, astrologers, gynecologists, or simply relatives of male philosophers. Nevertheless, the list of women alleged to have been philosophers was impressive.\" At this point, she decided to \"create a team of experts to collaborate with...I placed a notice in the SWIP (Society for Women in Philosophy) Newsletter and received a half-dozen responses from philosophers\". This collaborative project led to the publication of the four-volume \"A History of Women Philosophers\", published 1987-1995, which includes the following sections:\n\n\nAt the 2002 conference for Canadian Society for Women in Philosophy, Dr. Nancy Tuana asserted the evolutionary theory that the clitoris is unnecessary in reproduction and therefore it has been \"historically ignored,\" mainly because of \"a fear of pleasure. It is pleasure separated from reproduction. That's the fear\". She reasoned that this fear is the cause of the ignorance that veils female sexuality. The received view, advanced by Stephen Jay Gould suggests that muscular contractions associated with orgasms pull sperm from the vagina to the cervix, where it is in a better position to reach the egg. Dr. Tuana's proposal challenged the view previously accepted by male biologists.\n\n"}
{"id": "341486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341486", "title": "Stalking horse", "text": "Stalking horse\n\nA stalking horse is a figure that tests a concept with someone or mounts a challenge against someone on behalf of an anonymous third party. If the idea proves viable or popular, the anonymous figure can then declare its interest and advance the concept with little risk of failure. If the concept fails, the anonymous party will not be tainted by association with the failed concept and can either drop the idea completely or bide its time and wait until a better moment for launching an attack.\n\nIn hunting, it refers to a horse, or a figure of a horse, behind which a hunter hides when stalking game.\n\nThe term \"stalking horse\" originally derived from the practice of hunting, particularly of wildfowl. Hunters noticed that many birds would flee immediately on the approach of humans, but would tolerate the close presence of animals such as horses and cattle.\n\nHunters would therefore slowly approach their quarry by walking alongside their horses, keeping their upper bodies out of sight until the flock was within firing range. Animals trained for this purpose were called \"stalking horses\". Sometimes mobile hides are used for a similar purpose.\n\nAn example of the practice figures in the 1972 film \"Jeremiah Johnson\", when Johnson and Chris Lapp (\"Bear Claw\") are hunting elk in the Rockies:\n\n<poem>\"Jeremiah\": Wind's right, but he'll just run soon as we step out of these trees.\n\"Bear Claw\": Trick to it. Walk out on this side of your horse.\n\"Jeremiah\": What if he sees our feet?\n\"Bear Claw\": Elk don't know how many feet a horse has!</poem>\n\nThe term began appearing in Anglophone newspapers in the late 18th century. It was used to describe the Protestant branch of Christianity as \"a stalking horse to power\" in Ireland in 1785. Early examples of its use in a political context occurred in the London newspaper \"The Observer\" in 1796, the \"Connecticut Courant\" in the USA in 1808 and in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" in Australia in 1822.\n\nThe expression is generally used in politics and business. In politics, the circumstances may include an attempt to bring down a powerful leader, usually by members of their own party. They may also include the presentation of a bill by a minor party representative, who is also acting in the interests of a silent partner such as a larger, more risk averse, political party. In business, the circumstances are an attempt at testing the market for a potential (hostile) takeover of a business. In each case, there is the clear understanding that the anonymous party, whether a company or an individual, has a valuable reputation that could be damaged by the failure. The stalking horse is an exercise in assessing accurately the degree of risk, so that a full-blooded challenge is only mounted by the main party when there is a real likelihood of success.\n\nThe loser in the exercise appears to be the stalking horse. If the idea is viable or popular, the stalking horse person will be sidelined and the anonymous figure will take over the concept themselves. If the concept proves unpopular, the stalking horse will suffer any negative reaction. The understanding is that the anonymous party is a major player, perhaps only a little weaker than the target itself, and the stalking horse is a minor figure who has little or no reputation to lose. The anonymous figure is not sufficiently powerful, or does not have sufficient confidence in that power, to risk a direct attack first off, and the stalking horse is a form of distraction tactic to enable better positioning.\n\nIn politics, the stalking horse figure can expect patronage from the senior figure they are assisting. In business, an associated company that acts as a stalking horse may be given a share in the contracts or the market share that will result from the demise of the business rival. The loyalty in volunteering, or agreeing to be \"volunteered\", will ensure that their name becomes known to those with power and should guarantee help in advancing their interests. As a weaker player, they can afford to wait a while for the due reward.\n\nAlternatively, the \"horse\" may be acting in a more altruistic and self-sacrificial manner, knowing that there is no possibility of realistic reward from the third party for the exercise, and instead being motivated by duty or loyalty to do so for the greater good of the party, organization, or cause to which they both belong. In this case, the \"horse\" will probably not be a young person hoping for advancement, but an older figure at the end of their career, who volunteers as a gesture of gratitude for all the benefits they believe the cause has given them, or as a chance to go out in a blaze of glory.\n\nIn the event of failure, the anonymous party is seen as being sufficiently powerful to protect the \"horse\" from any real retribution on the part of the target, particularly since the anonymity will allow the third party to step in and pretend to be an honest broker between the \"horse\" and the target. This is a further opportunity to enhance the reputation of the third party and boost their status at the expense of the target. If the exercise is viable, the third party gains power immediately, but even if it fails it engineers an opportunity to resolve a stalemate and enhance the contender's reputation, so that ultimate success is another step nearer, to the benefit of both the third party and the \"horse\", who expects to slipstream in its wake.\n\nOne related concept is the smoke screen. Like a stalking horse, smoke screens are used to screen and mask an attack. In the literal and genuine form, the smoke screen is still a device used in warfare (in defence as well as attack), but the term is also commonly used as a metaphor. A stalking horse would be a particular form of smoke screen.\n\nAnother concept is that of kite-flying. The stalking horse pretends to be interested in a concept themselves, but in reality they are testing an idea for another. Likewise, in journalism, the term \"flying a kite\" takes the metaphor of the child's toy to mean advancing a concept in which one has no personal belief, or for which one has no reliable evidence, as a similar exercise in \"testing the waters\". Another similar metaphor is that of a trial balloon. Different examples may provoke different responses. Some may be directed to play to the readers themselves. The idea is \"to provoke a response where otherwise there would be none\". Like the stalking horse, the means is to use a spurious debate to provoke a real one. The difference is that the concept is advanced, not an individual. In one form of \"flying a kite\", a journalist claims to be acting on a behalf of a real but anonymous person, while in reality they are acting for themselves; this would be the opposite of the stalking horse. \n\nAnother concept is collusion. The difference here is that collusion usually refers to the situation of the first and third parties both declaring themselves openly to the target, but each pretends to be independent of anyone else and acting solely for themselves, whilst in reality they are acting in concert, in joint enterprise and to mutual advantage, at the expense of the target. If one party acts aggressively and the other sympathetically towards the target, it may be an example of good cop/bad cop. In the stalking horse scenario, the first and third parties are still acting in concert and in joint enterprise and still at the expense of the target, but only the first party, the \"horse\", is openly dealing with the target. In addition, they are not acting to immediate mutual advantage; rather, they are acting to advantage only the third party (the anonymous party), who, at a later date, should in turn give reward to the first party (the \"horse\"). \n\nAnother related idiom is that of the puppet-master. One person (the \"horse\") dances like a puppet on the stage, but another (the anonymous figure) is the one who is actually pulling the strings, unseen by all. The stalking horse appears to be acting for and as themselves, but there are others in the shadows. The difference is that the éminence grise or puppet-master is definitely controlling the puppet, but the stalking horse may not always be acting on the orders of, or to the benefit of, a particular individual; they may instead be acting for a cause, in the hope that some individual will be inspired to enter the fray and take over. \n\nThe concept of a \"sacrificial pawn\" is also in some ways similar to that of the stalking horse. In the game of chess, a pawn may be advanced in the knowledge that it will definitely be lost, but will, in so doing, force out an enemy piece of much higher value and make that piece much more susceptible to attack. This image is also in common usage as an metaphor. The difference with the stalking horse is that not only is the outcome not known at the outset but, furthermore, that it cannot reasonably be estimated without a proper reconnaissance. Therefore, unlike the pawn, the horse might have a good chance of survival. Either way, the \"horse\" will not benefit from the initial exercise.\n\nThe phenomenon occurs particularly in politics, where a junior politician acts as the stalking horse to promote the interests of a senior politician, who remains unseen in case the actions would damage him or her but nevertheless wants to provoke a debate or challenge to a party colleague. In some cases, stalking horses are not working for a particular individual but may wish to provoke a response that leads others to join in. In politics, the truth about the relationship between an individual stalking horse and a candidate may never be known, as both sides may claim that the (alleged) stalking horse acted without the agreement of anyone else.\n\nFor example, in Britain, the elderly and largely unknown back-bench politician Anthony Meyer challenged and helped to bring about the eventual resignation of Margaret Thatcher in the Conservative Party leadership.\n\nIn American politics, George W. Romney believed that Nelson Rockefeller had used him as a stalking horse in the 1968 Republican Party presidential primaries by promising support, then not providing it and hinting at his own entry into the campaign.\n\nAnother suspected example: After the 2016 presidential election, Green Party candidate Jill Stein demanded recounts in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania (all of which Donald Trump won in close contests), presumably for Hillary Clinton.\n\nIn bankruptcy, a stalking horse bid is a first, favorable bid solicited by the bankrupt company's creditors strategically to prevent low-ball offers.\n\n"}
{"id": "5767324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5767324", "title": "Stephen Hicks", "text": "Stephen Hicks\n\nStephen Ronald Craig Hicks (born August 19, 1960) is a Canadian-American philosopher. He teaches at Rockford University, where he also directs the Center for Ethics and Entrepreneurship.\n\nHicks earned his Bachelor of Arts (Honours, 1981) and Master of Arts degrees from the University of Guelph, and his Doctor of Philosophy (1991) from Indiana University Bloomington. His doctoral thesis was a defense of foundationalism.\n\nHicks is the author of four books and a documentary. \"Explaining Postmodernism: Skepticism and Socialism from Rousseau to Foucault\" argues that postmodernism is best understood as a rhetorical strategy of intellectuals and academics on the far left of the political spectrum developed in reaction to the failure of socialism and communism.\n\nHicks' documentary and book, \"Nietzsche and the Nazis\", is an examination of the ideological and philosophical roots of National Socialism, particularly how Friedrich Nietzsche's ideas were used, and in some cases misused, by Adolf Hitler and the Nazis to justify their beliefs and practices. This was released in 2006 as a video documentary and then in 2010 as a book.\n\nAdditionally, Hicks has published articles and essays on a range of subjects, including entrepreneurism, free speech in academia, the history and development of modern art, Ayn Rand's Objectivism, business ethics and the philosophy of education, including a series of YouTube lectures.\n\nHicks is also the co-editor, with David Kelley, of a critical thinking textbook, \"The Art of Reasoning: Readings for Logical Analysis\" (W. W. Norton & Co., second edition, 1998), and \"Entrepreneurial Living\" with Jennifer Harrolle (CEEF, 2016).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11905415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11905415", "title": "Thomistic sacramental theology", "text": "Thomistic sacramental theology\n\nThomistic sacramental theology is St. Thomas Aquinas's theology of the sacraments of the Catholic Church. It can be found through his writings in the \"Summa contra Gentiles\" and in the \"Summa Theologiæ\". As can be seen, Aquinas relied heavily on Scriptural passages, as well as the writings of various Church Fathers. St. Augustine says (De Civ. Dei x): \"The visible sacrifice is the sacrament. This is the sacred sign of the invisible sacrifice. A thing is called a sacrament, either by having a certain hidden sanctity, and in this sense a sacrament is a sacred secret; or from having some relationship to this sanctity. A sacrament is a sign. Moreover, it is a sacred sign. Divine Wisdom provides for each thing according to its mode. Wisdom 7,1 : \"she... ordered all things sweetly\"; and from Matthew 25,15: \"[she] gave to everyone according to his proper ability.\" It is a part of human nature to acquire knowledge of the intelligible from the sensible. A sign is the way one obtains knowledge of something else. The sacraments are the signs by which humans gain knowledge of spiritual and intelligible goods. Ephesians 5, 25-26: \"Christ loved the Church, and delivered Himself up for it; that He might sanctify it, cleansing it by the laver of water in the word of life.\" St. Augustine says (Tract. xxx in John): \"The word is added to the element, and this becomes the sacrament.\" Augustine (Contra Faust xix): \"It is impossible to keep men together in one religious denomination, whether true or false, except they be united by means of visible signs or sacraments.\" It is necessary for salvation that humans united together in the name of true religion. Therefore, sacraments are necessary for man's salvation. There are three reasons sacraments are necessary to the salvation of humans: First, it is in the nature of humans to be led by things corporal and sensible to things that are spiritual and intelligible. Second, by sinning, humans have subjected themselves to corporeal things. Therefore, it is proper that the remedy have a corporeal side, leading to the spiritual. Third, humans are prone to direct their activity towards material things (things that can be seen and felt). Sacraments are made necessary because humans have sinned. The main effect of the sacraments is grace, in particular those involving Virtues and Gifts. Grace perfects the soul and allow participation in the Divine Nature. Furthermore, the effects of the sacraments is justification. This is an interior effect. Romans 8,33: \"God justifies.\" Therefore, the effects of the sacraments is justification. This is an interior effect. The power of the sacraments is from God, alone. It does not matter that the minister of the sacraments may be a sinner, or evil. Augustine (commenting on John 1,33): \"He upon Whom you shall see the Spirit, ...that John did not know that our Lord, having the authority of baptizing, would keep it to Himself, but that the ministry would certainly pass to both good and evil men...What is a bad minister to you, wherever the Lord is good?\"\n\nThere are seven sacraments: Baptism, Confirmation, Holy Eucharist, Penance, Extreme Unction (Anointing of the Sick), Holy Orders, Matrimony. From Dionysius (Eccl. Hier. iii): \"No one receives hierarchical perfection save by the most God-like Eucharist.\" Therefore, the Holy Eucharist is the greatest of the sacraments. This is because it is the real presence of the Body and Blood of Christ. It perfects the other sacraments. From Summa Contra Gentiles Book 4, Chapter 58: The spiritual remedies of salvation have been given to men under sensible signs. In bodily life we find a twofold order: 1.) For some propagate and order the bodily life in others. 2.) Some are propagated and ordered in the bodily life. In a bodily life three things are necessary of themselves, and a fourth is incidental. 1.) Generation by birth. 2.) Growth to arrive at due size and strength. 3.) Nourishment is necessary. These three are assigned to the vegetative soul. 4.) Healing of the sick living thing. These are mirrored in the spiritual life of the sacraments. 1.) Baptism: spiritual generation. 2.) Confirmation: spiritual growth. 3.) Eucharist: spiritual nourishment. 4.) Penance and Extreme Unction (Anointing of the Sick): spiritual healing.\n\nThe sacrament of Baptism has the outward sign of a washing. \"He that washes himself (baptuzatur) after touching the dead, if he touched them again, what does his washing avail?\" (Sirach 34,30). The sacrament does not come from the water, but from the act of pouring the water, in the form of a washing. (St. Hugh of Victor held that the water was the sacrament, but this is in error.) The outward reality is in the washing with water, while the sacramental sign is the inward justification: this is the reality, or inward reality of the sacrament. The inward reality is a seal and a safeguarding. Dionysius defined Baptism by its relation to the other sacraments (Eccl. Hier.ii) that it is the principle that forms the habits of the soul for the reception of those most holy words and sacraments; by its relation to heavenly glory, which is the universal end of all sacraments, preparing the way for us, whereby we mount to the repose of the heavenly kingdom, conferring on us our most sacred and Godlike regeneration. The power of Baptism was initiated when Christ was Baptized, and not during the passion. The proper way to Baptize is \"I Baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.\" This comes from Matthew 28,19: \"Going ... teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.\" Ephesians 5,26: \"Cleansing the world by the cleaning laver of the water.\" Augustine says (De Unico Baptismo iv) that Baptism is consecrated by the words of the Gospel. Full immersion in water is not necessary. It is symbolic of the inward cleansing of the sin. Hebrews 10.22: \"Let us draw near with a true heart in fullness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water.\" Ezekiel 36:25: \"25Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse you.\" Baptism cannot be reiterated. Ephesians 4, 5: \"One Faith, one Baptism.\" Baptism is a spiritual rebirth. John 3,5: \"Unless a man is born again of water and the Holy Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.\" John 3,4: \"A man cannot re-enter the womb.\" Therefore, he cannot be re-Baptized. (cf. Romans 4, 3-4) Because we are baptized in Christ's death, by which we die to sin and rise again into a newness of life. Now, Christ died once. Baptism imprints a character which is indelible. Baptism is the principle remedy against original sin. Romans 5,18: \"...as by the offense of one, unto all men to condemnation, so also by the justice of one, all men are justified of life.\" There are three kinds of Baptism: Baptism of water, of Blood (Martyrdom) and of the Spirit (Baptism of Desire). Hebrews 4,2: \"[Of baptism) He uses the plural, because there is Baptism of Water, of Repentance and of Blood.\" Isaiah 4, 4: \"The Lord shall wash away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall wash away the blood of Jerusalem, out of the midst thereof, by the spirit of judgment, and by the spirit of burning.\" Augustine (De Unico Baptismo Parvulrum, iv): \"The Blessed Cyprian argues with considerable reason from the thief to whom, though not baptized, it was said, 'Today you shall be with Me in Paradise', that suffering can take the place of Baptism. Having weighed this again and again, I perceive that not only can suffering for the name of Christ supply what is lacking in Baptism, but even faith and conversion of heart, if perchance on account of stress of the times the celebration of the mystery of Baptism is not practicable.\" Priests are the proper ministers to perform Baptism. Isidore (of Spain) says priests are the only ministers who can perform Baptism. However, even Isidore and Pope Gelasius I say that it is often permissible for Christian laymen to baptize in cases of urgency. Women can baptize. This was approved by Pope Urban II and from Colossians 3: \"In Christ there is neither male nor female.: Isidore indicates that even a person who is not baptized may baptize, since it is the Holy Spirit Who performs the mystery of the Baptism. Augustine never answered this question. But the Church has long since determined that Jews and non-baptized heretics can baptize. It is possible to be saved even without Baptism of Water, if the person has the proper desire, and has no contempt for the Sacrament. Baptism should not be delayed. Sirach 5, 8: \"Delay not to be converted to the Lord and defer it not from day to day.\" Children of heretics and Jews should not be baptized against the will of their parents. (See Thought of Thomas Aquinas for a detailed discussion.) It is beneficial to baptize imbeciles and madmen. Baptism opens the gates of heaven to sinners. Luke 3,21: \"Heaven was opened.\" The gloss of Bede \"We see here the power of Baptism; from which when a man comes forth, the gates of the heavenly kingdom are opened to him.\" Baptism has an equal effect on all. Ephesians 4, 5: \"One Faith, One Baptism.\" After one has reached the age of reason, it is necessary to receive the Baptism with sincerity. If the Sacrament is received in bad faith, then one has a change of heart, the effects of Baptism are salutory (Augustine). From Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 4, Chapter 59: Bede: \"Baptism opens the gates of heaven.\" A spiritual generation is needed only once, hence baptism is given only once. The sin of Adam makes a man guilty only once. Baptism is chiefly directed at this infection. This excludes the errors of the Donatists or the Rebaptizers (Augustine).\n\nThe following is condensed from Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 4, Chapter 60: \n\nThe perfection of spiritual strength consists in a man's daring to confess the faith of Christ in the presence of everyone. This is done without error or confusion. Spiritual strength drives out inordinate terror. This is the sacrament of Confirmation. One becomes a front line fighter for the faith of Christ. Warriors carry the insignia of their master. So it is with the confirmed: they carry the sign of Christ. The signing takes place with a mixture of oil and balm which is called chrism, and not without reason. This designated the power of the Holy Spirit. They are called anointed (Psalm 44,8; Luke 4,18). They are called Christians Acts 9,26). This is because they are warriors under Christ. The balm gives a pleasing fragrance, which indicates one of good public repute. These are called forth from the recesses of the Church to the field of battle. This sacrament is conferred only by bishops. These are enrolled in the spiritual military forces. Manliness is derived from Christ.\n\nCondensed from Summa Theologiæ: \n\nConcerning the institution of this sacrament there are three opinions. Alexander of Hales (Summa Theol. PIV, Q IX) and St. Bonaventure (IV, Sent. vii) have maintained that this sacrament was instituted neither by Christ, nor by the apostles; but later in the course of time by one of the councils. Pierre de Tarantaise (IV Sent. vii) held that it was instituted by the apostles. But this cannot be admitted. A Sacrament belongs to the power of excellence, which belongs to Christ alone. Therefore, we must say that Christ instituted this sacrament not by bestowing, but by promising it according to John 16, 7: \"If I don't leave, the Paraclete will not come to you, but if I go, I will send Him to you.\" Confirmation is the sacrament of the fullness of grace. John 7,39: \"As yet the Spirit was not given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.\" Chrism is a fitting natter for the Sacrament. Sirach 24, 21: \"My odor is as the purest balm.\" The proper form of the Sacrament is: \"I sign you with the sign of the cross, etc.\" This is within the authority of the Church to prescribe. It is proper to call the chrism either the oil of salvation or the oil of sanctification. Confirmation confirms a character. It is in the form of a consecration and cannot be repeated, once it is administered. The character of Confirmation is the gift of the Paraclete, as promised by scripture. It is given to the baptized to publish the faith, as strengthened by the Holy Spirit. This is similar to what occurred with the Apostles on Pentecost, and reiterates the sanctifying grace with the Apostles received from the Paraclete. Those who say the Sacrament should not be given are in error, because the \"works of God are perfect\" (Deuteronomy 32, 4). The sanctifying grace of Confirmation tends to make strong and perfect the faith of the person. Hugh of St. Victor (De Sacram. ii) \"It would be altogether hazardous, if anyone happened to go forth from this life without being Confirmed.\"\n\nCondensed from Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 4, Chapters 61 to 69: \n\nLife needs material nourishment to increase in quantity and to maintain the body. Spiritual effects are given under the likeness of things that are visible, hence are given the appearance of things men commonly use for bodily nourishment. These are bread and wine. He who begets is joined to the begotten in a way. The nourished and the nourishment are joined. It is the spiritual mystery that unites the Eucharist to us. John 6, 56: \"My flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.\" John 6, 61: \"This saying is hard, and who can bear it?\" So it is with the heretics who put themselves at odds with the teaching of the Church. Matthew 26, 26 \"This is my body.\" It should be noted that He did not say, \"This is a sign or representation of my body.\" Yet some heretics disclaim the truth of the presence of Christ in the Eucharist. To some, it appears scandalous to eat the flesh and drink the blood of Christ. John 6, 64: \"The words I have spoken to you are spirit and life.\" A thing begins to be where it was not before in two ways: 1.) by local motion; 2.) Conversion of something into itself. Manifestly, the body of Christ ascended into heaven, hence cannot be always on the altar. It does not seem possible to some there is a new conversion of another into itself on the altar. In a similar manner, a thing cannot be moved from one place to another without ceasing to be in the original place. Therefore, it seems to some that Christ must cease to be in heaven when He is on the altar. It seems impossible to some that the large body of a man could be contained in the host used in the Eucharist. It is also hard to understand how the body of Christ can be present simultaneously, on many altars at once. Another stumbling block is the appearance of the bread and wine. The accidents of color, taste, figure, etc. remain. Aristotle \"The being of an accident is by inheritance.\" Another problem occurs from the fact that the action and passion of the bread and wine are unchanged after the consecration. Another problem occurs in the breaking of the bread, for it seems to some that the fragment of the bread cannot contain the whole body. This would be as if a man lost an arm or leg, his whole being would be contained in the portion. It is true that the teachings of the Church about the Eucharist are difficult. Divine power operates in this sacrament with great secrecy and sublimity. It is beyond the ability of man to search it out. The conversion occurs by a divine mode, and is not natural (in the way we understand it) in any way. Air can be converted to fire. This is called a formal conversion. But in the conversion of the Eucharist, a subject passes over into a subject without a change in the accidents. This is called \"substantial\". It was wise of Christ to assume the form of bread and wine, since it would be horrible for the believers to consume a real human body and blood. Furthermore, it would be an abomination for those watching to observe such a thing. There is a real conversion which takes place: \"This is My Body...This is My Blood.\" His body is contained in the bread by the force of conversion, while the blood is a natural accompaniment. Under the appearance of wine, the converse is true. The body of Christ is not related to place, with its own dimensions as a medium. In the body of Christ, His own dimensions exist in one place only, but through the mediation of the dimensions of the bread passing into its places are as many as there are places in which this sort of conversion is celebrated. It is not divided into parts, but is entire in every single one. Every consecrated bread is converted into the entire Body of Christ. The Body and Blood of Christ is not affected by the accidents of the bread and wine. It is not impossible that divine power can affect the subject without changing the nature of the accidents. In this sacrament He conserves the accident while changing the substance. According to Aristotle, the Platonists held that this was not possible. But it is clear that God can do more in operation that the intellect of man can comprehend. The Body and Blood are contained under the appearance. Aristotle: \"Position is the order of parts of the whole... quantity is that which has position... with the quantity gone, all substance is indivisible.\" Since we hold that in this sacrament the measurements subsist of themselves and that the other accidents are founded on these as on a subject, we need not say that accidents of this kind are not individuated; for there persists in the measurements themselves the root of individuation. In this sacrament, the accidents of the bread and wine persists. Concerning passions (such as those which take place in the alterations of accidents of this kind), the difficulty is not hard to understand if the premises are granted. The difficulty occurs regarding the generation and corruption which seems to take place in this sacrament. If enough quantity of this sacrament were to be consumed, one could be nourished, and even made drunk. I Corinthians 11, 21: \"One indeed is hungry and another is drunk.\" It is amazing that some would claim that the bread and wine could not be converted into the body and blood of Christ, when we know that by putrefaction and combustion, this same bread is converted to dust and ashes. However, the substance of a thing should not be confused with the accidents. Combustion and putrefaction are not miracles, but the normal order of nature. The conversion of the bread and wine into the body and blood of Christ is miraculous. The final difficulty is that whereby every portion of the bread contains the whole Christ. We should not seek the solutions in terms of mediating dimensions. For every drop of water contains the nature and species of water. The whole soul is in every part of the body. Therefore, the breaking of the bread does not affect the dimensions of the whole body of Christ. Ultimately, the Eucharist should be viewed from this standpoint: nothing is impossible for God Who can do all things. John 6, 64: \"The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.\" We are to take this that there are certain spiritual foods given to us that are quite apart from earthly carnal foods. One properly calls wine the liquid expressed from grapes. We call bread that which is made from grain wheat. If an admixture is introduced, the nature of the bread or wine can be lost. It is not essential whether the bread be leavened or unleavened. St. Gregory \"the Roman Church offers unleavened bread because our Lord took on flesh without any admixture. But the rest of the Churches offer leavened bread, since the Word of God was clothed with flesh, and is true God and true man, just as the leavened bread is mixed with paste.\" Still, it is in greater harmony with the truth to use unleavened bread. I Corinthians 5, 7-8: \"Christ our pasch is sacrificed. Therefore, let us feast... with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.\" There are certain Greek heretics who say that the sacrament cannot be offered with unleavened bread. However, in Matthew 26,17; Mark 14,12; Luke 22,7, it is indicated that Christ performed the first Eucharist with unleavened bread. Furthermore, it is clear that the use of unleavened bread is required by the Old Law (Exodus 12,15). The Greek arguments against the Latin Church for using unleavened bread are not based on scriptural interpretation. Some use I Corinthians 11,23 and John 18,28 to indicate that leavened bread was used in the first pasch. However, the Old Law was observed, and it is clear that unleavened bread would have been used at the Last Supper. All the Gospels (Matthew, Mark, Luke) indicate that the pasch was celebrated in accordance with the Old law. It is clear that the Latin Church is reasonable in the use of unleavened bread.\n\nThe following is condensed from \"Summa Theologiæ\":\n\nThe Church's sacraments are ordained for helping man in the spiritual life. But the spiritual life is analogous to the corporeal, since corporeal things bear a resemblance to spiritual. There is only one sacrament in the Eucharist. I Corinthians 10,17 \"For we, being many, are one bread one body, all that partake of one bread.\" It is clear that the Eucharist is the sacrament of the Church's unity. This is to say that, just as Baptism is necessary for salvation, and can be obtained by desire, so can the Eucharist be obtained by desire. Baptism is the beginning of spiritual life. Baptism ordains a man for the reception of the Eucharist, which nourishes the spiritual life. Augustine explaining John 6, 54: \"This food and this drink, namely, of His flesh and blood: He would have us understand the fellowship of His body and members, which is the Church in His predestinated, and called, and justified, and glorified, His body and believing ones. No one should entertain the slightest doubt, that then every one of this faithful becomes a partaker of the body and blood of Christ, when in Baptism he is made a member of Christ's body, nor is he deprived of his share in that body and chalice even though he depart from this world in the unity of Christ's body before he eats that bread and drinks that chalice.\" Damascene says that it is called Communion because we communicate with Christ through it, both because we partake of His flesh and Godhead, and because we communicate with and are united to one another through it. It is called the Eucharist because it is the \"good grace\" because it leads to the grace of God everlasting (Romans 4,23); or because it really contains Christ, Who is full of grace. The sacrament was instituted by Christ, of Whom it is said (Mark 7,37) that He did all things well. Eusebius says \"Since He was going to withdraw His assumed body from their eyes, and bear it away to the stars, it was needful that on the day of the supper He should consecrate the sacrament of His body and blood for our sakes, in order that what was once offered up for our ransom should be fittingly worshiped in a mystery.\" Without faith in the Passion there could never be any salvation. Romans 3, 25: \"Whom God has proposed to be propitiation, through faith in His blood.\" The chief sacrament of the Old Law was the Paschal Lamb. I Corinthians 5, 7: \"Christ our Pasch is sacrificed.\" Augustine (. ad januar, i) \"In order to commend more earnestly the depth of this mystery, our Savior willed this last act to be fixed in the hearts and memories of the disciples whom He was about to quit for the Passion.\" And I Corinthians 5, 7-8: \"Christ our Pasch is sacrificed; therefore let us feast.. with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.\" Wheat is the appropriate matter for the bread of the host. John 12,24: \"Unless the grain of wheat falling into the ground die, it remains alone.\" Therefore, Christ has compared Himself to the grain of wheat. The presence of Christ's true body and blood in this sacrament cannot be detected by sense, nor understanding, but by faith alone, which rests upon the Divine authority. Luke 22,19: \"This is My Body, which shall be delivered up for you.\" Cyril says \"Doubt not whether this is true; but take rather the Savior's words with faith; for since He is the Truth and He does not lie.\"\n\nThe consecration occurs when the priest states the words, \"This is My Body; this is My Blood.\" But when the priest says this, it is Jesus Christ Who is saying it. Ambrose (De Sacram. iv) \"The consecration is accomplished by the words and expressions of the Lord Jesus. Because, by all the other words spoken, praise is rendered to God, prayer is put up for the people, for kings and others; but when the tome comes for perfecting the sacrament, the priest no longer uses his own words, but the words of Christ. Therefore, it is Christ's words that perfect this sacrament.\" Furthermore, for those who doubt the validity of these words, and who doubt that God could or would do this, Ambrose adds: \"If there be such might in the word of the Lord Jesus that things non-existent came into being, how much more efficacious is it to make things existing to continue, and to be changed into something new? And so, what was the bread before the consecration is now the body of Christ after consecration, because Christ's word changes a creature into something different.\" This is because Jesus Christ is the Word of God, which caused all creation to come into being.\n\nThe following is condensed from Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 4, Chapters 70-72: \n\nAlthough grace is bestowed upon men by the sacraments, they are not rendered incapable of sin. He who receives the gratuitous gifts of grace, can still sin by acting against grace. Aristotle \"every evil man is ignorant.\" Proverbs 14,22: \"They err that work evil.\" Hebrews 12,15: \"Looking diligently, lest any man be wanting to the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up to hinder.\" Ephesians 4, 30: \"Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God whereby you are sealed.\" I Corinthians 9.27: \"I chastise my body and bring into subjection, lest perhaps when I preached to others, I myself should become a castaway.\" This does away with the belief of some heretics that say that after a man has received the grace of the Spirit, is unable to sin, and that if he sins, he never had the grace of the Holy Spirit. In this, they used to following to support their position: I Corinthians 13, *: \"Charity never falls away.\" John 3, 6-9: \"Whoever abides in Him sins not, and whosoever sins has not seen Him nor known Him.\" This is rebutted by the following: Apocalypse 2, 4: \"I have somewhat against you because you have your first charity.\" I Corinthians 1, 8-10: \"Shall be made void... when that which is perfect is come.\" It is then that a perfect state of charity shall abide. As long as a man lives with grace granted him, he will not sin. If he turns from that grace, he will sin. (Note: This is an interesting doctrine of some fundamentalist churches that was taught in Aquinas' time, and it is taught today: \"he that has been baptized in the Spirit cannot sin, and he who sins never had the Spirit.\" Of course, the doctrine is considered false by the Catholic Church. It completely ignores both our concupiscent nature (which is not abrogated with baptism) and free will, which is not necessarily changed, at least immediately, by the action of the sacrament. AEF) As long as we are alive, the will is mutable toward good or evil. Good is more powerful than evil. I Corinthians 6,9-11: \"Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, shall possess the Kingdom of God. And such of you were; but you are washed, but you are sanctified, but you were justified in the name of Jesus Christ and the Spirit of our God.\" Grace and the sacrament increases nature's good. If sin takes place after grace is received, we can still be led back to a state of justice. Despair is an invitation to sinfulness. Ephesians 4,19: \"Despairing have given themselves up to lasciviousness, unto the working of all uncleanness, unto covetousness.\" Despair is a dangerous cesspool leading men to vices. I John 2, 1-2: \"My little children, these things I write to you, that you may not sin. But if any man sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the just. And He is the propitiation for our sins.\" II Corinthians 2, 6-7, 7-9: \"[To the Corinthian fornicator] To him who is such a one, this rebuke is sufficient which is given by many: so that on the contrary you should rather forgive him and comfort him... I am glad: not because you were made sorrowful, but because you were made sorrowful unto penance.\" Jeremiah 3,1: \"You have prostituted yourself to many lovers; nevertheless, return to Me, says the Lord.\" Lamentations 5, 21: \"Convert us, O Lord, and we shall be converted; renew our days, as from the beginning.\" In this way one excludes the error of the Novatians who were wont to deny forgiveness to those who had sinned after Baptism. They used the following to justify their error: Hebrews 6, 4-5: \"It is impossible for those who were once illuminated, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit, have moreover tasted the good of God, and the powers of the world to come, and are fallen away: to be renewed again to penance.\" However, these overlooked the passage which followed: \"Crucify again themselves the Son of God and of Him a mockery.\" Therefore, to be renewed, one must be again crucified with the penance of Christ. Romans 6, 3: \"All we who were baptized in Christ Jesus are baptized in His death.\" Titus 3, 5: \"According to His mercy, He has saved us, by the laver of regeneration and renovation of the Holy Spirit.\" If a man sins after baptism, he cannot have baptism as a remedy. Baptism, which is a spiritual regeneration cannot be given a second time. When a person is healed by something given to him by a doctor, it is the healing power within him that heals him. The spiritual health in the sacrament of penance is both internal and external. Sins come from disordering of the mind. This is the first damage. The second is that there is the guilt of punishment. The third damage is the weakening of the general good, whereby a person is rendered more likely to sin again. The first thing required is a proper ordering of the mind. This cannot be achieved without the physician of the soul, Jesus Christ. Matthew 1, 21: \"[Jesus Christ] Who shall save his people from their sins.\" I Peter 1, 3: \"[Christ] regenerated us unto a lively hope.\" It is turning the mind to God with a complete hatred of the sin that there is a remission of the sin and a wiping out of the fault. However, there sometimes remains a fault. The second part of the remission of sin in confession, is the actual confession itself. This is the verbal communication of the sin to the minister of Christ. Matthew 16, 19: \"I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven.\" Confession, like baptism, may be excluded by necessity, but no contempt in exigent circumstances Augustine. Acts 4, 10-12: \"There is no other name given to men whereby we must be saved except by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.\" It is in this way that one avoids the error of Peter Lombard who said that confession was not necessary. Satisfaction is the third part of penance. It is evident that not every priest can absolve every man from every sin. He can only do this when he has received the power to do so. (Note: Peter Lombard was a prominent Scholastic in the Parisian scene in the late 12th century. AEF)\n\nThe following is condensed from Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 4, Chapter 73: \n\nThe body is the instrument of the soul, and the instrument is for the use of the principal agent. Hence, the body is disposed to be in harmony with the soul. therefore, infirmity of the soul sometimes flows from the body, causing infirmity as well. Also, bodily infirmity can sometimes hinder spiritual health. Therefore, it was proper to employ a spiritual medicine against sin. James 5, 14-15: \"Is any man sick among you? Let him bring in the priests of the Church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of the faith shall heal the sick man.\" There is no guarantee that even is a man healed from his bodily infirmity, that he will necessarily be forgiven the infirmity of the soul. Also, some who do not recover, physically, may enjoy great spiritual restoration from the sacrament. James adds: \"And the Lord shall raise him up... if he be in sins, they shall be forgiven.\" Now it frequently occurs that a man in a state of illness has no recollection of the sins he has committed, and never confessed, nor performed penance for remission. It is impossible for one to lead a daily life without committing some form of sin. This sacrament should serve to cleanse these sins. This sacrament does not confer a consecration as occurs in Baptism or Confirmation. Still, the sacrament should not be administered to one who is healthy, but rather reserved for the sick, since it has the external appearance of a medicine, or a medicinal rite. The oils should be applied to the sources of the sins, namely the organs of the senses and the hands and the feet, by which the works of sin are carried out. Some engage in anointing the loins, since these are a source of sin. There is nothing incorrect in this practice. Since no sin is forgiven, except by grace, it is clear that grace is conferred in this sacrament. Dionysius: \"It is proper for priests to confer this sacrament.\" This is because the sacrament confers enlightening grace, and the order of priests tends to enlightenment. However, the sacrament does not require a bishop. The effect of the sacrament can be blocked by a pretense in the receiver. In this way, it is no different from any other sacrament.\n\nThe following is condensed from Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 4, Chapters 74-77. According to Dionysius, all the sacraments confer a spiritual grace. This is a correct assessment. The sacraments are conferred by visible men, who employ visual methods, to dispense invisible grace. Hebrews 5, 1: \"Every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in the things that appertain to God.\" Ephesians 5, 25-26: \"Christ loved the Church and delivered Himself up for it: that He might sanctify it, cleansing it by the laver of water in the word of life.\" I Corinthians 4, 1: \"Let no man so account of us as ministers of Christ and dispensers of the mysteries of God.\" Luke 22, 19: \"Do this in commemoration of Me.\" John 20, 23: \"Whose sins you shall forgive, they are forgiven them.\" The same instructions are given concerning teaching and baptizing. Matthew 28, 19: \"Going, therefore, teach all nations, baptizing them.\" II Corinthians 13, 10: \"The power which the Lord has given me unto edification and not into destruction.\" St. Paul says this power is \"for building up the Church.\" Mark 13, 27: \"What I say to you, I say to all.\" Matthew 28, 20: \"Behold, I am with you all days even to the consummation of the world.\" The conferring of spiritual power is the province of the divine liberality. This is the sacrament of Holy Orders. The power of orders as a sacrament is established for the dispensation of the sacraments. Aristotle: \"Everything is denominated from its end.\" The power of orders must extend itself to the remission of sins by the dispensation of the sacraments which are ordered to the remission of sins: baptism and penance (confession, reconciliation). The powers of orders is also toward the Eucharist. This is the meaning of the \"keys to the Kingdom.\" Matthew 15, 19: \"I will give to you the keys to the Kingdom.\" The lowest orders serves the priestly order. These are doorkeepers who let the faithful in, and keep the unfaithful out. Acolytes help prepare the sacred vessels. Others prepare the people in the consummation of the sacrament. The three orders - the priesthood, the diaconate, and the subdiaconate are called sacred orders because they receive a ministry in something sacred. There is a superior power within the Church which has a ministry of dispensing the sacrament of orders. Church unity requires that all the faithful agree as to the faith. In matters of faith, questions are bound to arise. The unity of the Church demands that there is a single head of the Church. This single head of the Church provides one voice to answer these questions. Isaiah 5, 4: \"What is there that I ought to do more to My vineyard that I have not done to it?\" It is a mistake to doubt that there is a single head of the Church. Proverbs 8, 15: \"Kings reign, and lawmakers decree just things.\" the best government is one ruled by one. The Church is a militant Church. Apocalypse 21, 2: \"Jerusalem is coming down from heaven.\" Exodus 25, 10; 26, 30: \"[Moses was told to make everything] according to the pattern I have shown you on the mountain.\" Apocalypse 21, 3: \"They shall be His people and God Himself with them shall be their God.\" In the militant Church, there must be one who presides over the things universally. Osee 1, 11: \"The children of Juda and the children of Israel shall be gathered together; and they shall appoint themselves a head.\" John 10, 16: \"There shall be one fold and one shepherd.\" John 21, 17:\"Feed My sheep.\" Luke 22, 32: \"You being once converted confirm your brethren.\" Matthew 16, 19: \"I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven.\" Isaiah 9, 7: \"He shall sit upon the throne of David and upon His kingdom to establish and strengthen it with judgment and with justice from henceforth and forever.\" Matthew 28, 20: \"Behold I am with all days even to the consummation of the world.\" By this is excluded all those who partake of the presumptuous error of saying that the Roman Pontiff is not the true successor of the rule of Peter. It is in the nature of a consecration that it is persistent and lasts forever. Nothing consecrated can be consecrated a second time. A man is called good or bad in accord with the vice or virtue. In this way, there is a habit of a sort. Habit differs from power. By power, we are able to do something. By a habit we are not rendered able or unable to make something, but ready or unready in doing well or badly what we are able to do. Habit neither gives ability nor removes it. John 1, 33: \"He it is that baptizes.\" The minister is an animate tool. Jeremiah 7, 5: \"Cursed be the man that trusts in man.\" Matthew 23, 2-3: \"The Scribes and Pharisees have sat on the chair of Moses. All things, therefore, whatsoever they do you, observe and do. But according to their works, do you not.\" This dispenses of the error of those who say that only good men can dispense sacraments, while evil ones cannot.\n\nThe following is condensed from Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 4, Chapter 78. So far as generation is ordered to a political good, it is subject to the ordering of civil law. Insofar as it is ordered to the good of the Church, it must be subject to the government of the Church. Matrimony consists of the union of a man and a woman purposing to generate and educate offspring for the worship of God. It is a sacrament of the Church. \n\nHence there is a certain blessing on those marrying that is given by the ministers of the Church. Ephesians 5, 32: \"This is a great sacrament; but I speak in Christ and the Church.\" The union of a man and a woman mirrors the union of Christ and the Church. Canticles 6, 8: \"one is My dove, My perfect one.\" Matthew 28, 20: \"Behold I am with you all days even to the consummation of the world.\" I Thessalonians 4, 16: \"We shall always be with the Lord.\" There are three goods [ends or aims] of matrimony as a sacrament of the Church:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3138655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3138655", "title": "Unscrupulous diner's dilemma", "text": "Unscrupulous diner's dilemma\n\nIn game theory, the unscrupulous diner's dilemma (or just diner's dilemma) is an \"n\"-player prisoner's dilemma. The situation imagined is that several individuals go out to eat, and prior to ordering, they agree to split the check equally between all of them. Each individual must now choose whether to order the expensive or inexpensive dish. It is presupposed that the expensive dish is better than the cheaper, but not by enough to warrant paying the difference when eating alone. Each individual reasons that the expense s/he adds to their bill by ordering the more expensive item is very small, and thus the improved dining experience is worth the money. However, having all reasoned thus, they all end up paying for the cost of the more expensive meal, which by assumption, is worse for everyone than having ordered and paid for the cheaper meal.\n\nLet \"a\" represent the joy of eating the expensive meal, \"b\" the joy of eating the cheap meal, \"k\" is the cost of the expensive meal, \"l\" the cost of the cheap meal, and \"n\" the number of players. From the description above we have the following ordering formula_1. Also, in order to make the game sufficiently similar to the Prisoner's dilemma we presume that one would prefer to order the expensive meal given others will help defray the cost, formula_2\n\nConsider an arbitrary set of strategies by a player's opponent. Let the total cost of the other players' meals be \"x\". The cost of ordering the cheap meal is formula_3 and the cost of ordering the expensive meal is formula_4. So the utilities for each meal are formula_5 for the expensive meal and formula_6 for the cheaper meal. By assumption, the utility of ordering the expensive meal is higher. Remember that the choice of opponents' strategies was arbitrary and that the situation is symmetric. This proves that the expensive meal is strictly dominant and thus the unique Nash equilibrium.\n\nIf everyone orders the expensive meal all of the diners pay \"k\" and their total utility is formula_7. On the other hand, if all the individuals had ordered the cheap meal, their utility would have been formula_8. Since by assumption formula_9, everyone would be better off. This demonstrates the similarity between the diner's dilemma and the prisoner's dilemma. Like the prisoner's dilemma, everyone is worse off by playing the unique equilibrium than they would have been if they collectively pursued another strategy.\n\nGneezy, Haruvy, and Yafe (2004) tested these results in a field experiment. Groups of six diners faced different billing arrangements. In one arrangement the diners pay individually, in the second they split the bill evenly between themselves and in the third the meal is paid entirely by the experimenter. As predicted, the consumption is the smallest when the payment is individually made, the largest when the meal is free and in-between for the even split. In a fourth arrangement, each participant pays only one sixth of their individual meal and the experimenter pay the rest, to account for possible unselfishness and social considerations. There was no difference between the amount consumed by these groups and those splitting the total cost of the meal equally. As the private cost of increased consumption is the same for both treatments but splitting the cost imposes a burden on other group members, this indicates that participants did not take the welfare of others into account when making their choices. This contrasts to a large number of laboratory experiments where subjects face analytically similar choices but the context is more abstract.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4060472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4060472", "title": "Vincent F. Hendricks", "text": "Vincent F. Hendricks\n\nVincent Fella Rune Møller Hendricks (born 6 March 1970), is a Danish philosopher and logician. He holds two doctoral degrees (Dr. Phil and PhD) in philosophy and is Professor of Formal Philosophy and Director of the Center for Information and Bubble Studies (CIBS) at University of Copenhagen, Denmark. He was previously Professor of Formal Philosophy at Roskilde University, Denmark. He is member of IIP, the Institut International de Philosophie.\n\nHendricks's work deals with modern mathematical and philosophical logic and concentrates primarily on bringing mainstream and formal approaches to epistemology together — from epistemic reliabilism, counterfactual epistemology and contextualism to epistemic logic, formal learning theory and what is called 'modal operator epistemology'. Modal operator epistemology, developed first by Hendricks in \"The Convergence of Scientific Knowledge\" (Dordrecht: Springer, 2001), since developed further in a number of papers and books – see in particular \"Mainstream and Formal Epistemology\" (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006, winner of CHOICE Outstanding Academic Title 2006) – is the cocktail obtained by mixing alethic, tense and epistemic logic with elements from formal learning theory in order to study the limiting validity of convergent knowledge.\n\nVincent F. Hendricks is editor-in-chief of \"Synthese\", \"Synthese Library\" and \"New Waves in Philosophy\", he is also the first founder of ΦLOG – \"The Network for Philosophical Logic and Its Applications\" and chief editor of ΦNEWS – \"The Newsletter for Philosophical Logic and Its Applications\".\n\nIn 2008, Vincent F. Hendricks was awarded the Elite Research Prize by the Danish Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation and HRH Crown Princess Mary. In 2008 he was awarded the Roskilde Festival Elite Research Prize.\n\nIn 2012, Hendricks attracted criticism from some philosophers for doing a photo shoot that depicts young women dressed in sexy school uniforms in a classroom setting and presenting it on his web site. Hendricks later withdrew the pictures from his web site and apologized. The photos were taken as part of a charity drive arranged by a Danish-language charity \"Youmeshopping\".\n\n\n"}
