{"id": "23190929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23190929", "title": "2009 Southeast Asian haze", "text": "2009 Southeast Asian haze\n\nThe 2009 Southeast Asian haze was an episode of large scale air pollution primarily caused by slash and burn practices used to clear land for agricultural purposes in Sumatra, Indonesia. It affected the areas surrounding the Straits of Malacca which besides Indonesia include Malaysia and Singapore.\n\nThe haze began in early June 2009 and progressively became worse toward July. With a prevailing dry season caused by El Nino, burning and hence the haze was expected to continue until August or September when the monsoon season arrived.\n\n  0-50  Good\n 51-100 Moderate\n101-200 Unhealthy\n201-300 Very unhealthy\n301- Hazardous\n\n"}
{"id": "21894306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21894306", "title": "Acquired generalized lipodystrophy", "text": "Acquired generalized lipodystrophy\n\nAcquired generalized lipodystrophy (also known as \"Lawrence syndrome,\" and \"Lawrence–Seip syndrome\", abbreviation: AGL) is a rare skin condition that appears during childhood or adolescence, characterized by fat loss affecting large areas of the body, particularly the face, arms, and legs. There are 4 types of lipodystrophy based on its onset and areas affected: acquired or inherited (congenital or familial), and generalized or partial. Both acquired or inherited lipodystrophy present as loss of adipose tissues. The near-total loss of subcutaneous adipose tissue is termed generalized lipodystrophy while the selective loss of adipose tissues is denoted as partial lipodystrophy. Thus, as the name suggests, AGL is a near-total deficiency of adipose tissues in the body that is developed later in life. It is an extremely rare disease that only about 100 cases are reported worldwide. There are three main etiologies of AGL suspected: autoimmune, panniculitis-associated, or idiopathic. After its onset, the disease progresses over a few days, weeks, months, or even in years. Clinical presentations of AGL are similar to other lipodystrophies, including metabolic complications and hypoleptinemia. Treatments are also similar and mainly supportive for symptomatic alleviation. Although HIV- or drug-induced lipodystrophy are a type of acquired lipodystrophy, its origin is very specific and distinct hence is usually not discussed with AGL (see HIV-Associated Lipodystrophy).\n\nThe clinical presentation is similar to people with congenital lipodystrophy: the only difference is that AGL patients are born with normal fat distribution and symptoms develop in childhood and adolescence years and rarely begins after 30 years of age. Females are more often affected than males, with ratio being 3:1.\n\nThe hallmark characteristics are widespread loss of subcutaneous fat, ectopic fat deposition, leptin deficiency, and severe metabolic abnormalities such as insulin resistance. Subcutaneous fat loss in AGL patients are visible in all parts of the body. AGL mostly affects face and the extremities and may look sunken or swollen in the eyes. However, the degree and location of severity may vary by person. Especially, intra-abdominal fat loss is variable. As subcutaneous fat is lost, affected areas show prominent structures of veins and muscle. Those with panniculitis-associated AGL may present erythematous nodules.\n\nMetabolic complications include insulin resistance, high metabolic rate, and uncontrolled lipid levels such as hypertriglyceridemia, low HDL, and high LDL. Patients may develop diabetes mellitus secondary to insulin resistance.\n\nRecent case reports revealed that lymphoma is present in some patients but its prevalence is not known at this time.\n\nThere is no known cause for this disease; however, three origins of AGL are generally suspected: panniculitis-associated, autoimmune-associated, and idiopathic AGLs. Triggers may include infections that aggravate the panniculitis, or any disease state that can induce autoimmunity. Overlap between panniculitis and autoimmune types also exists. Another theory suggest that AGL is an autoimmune disease itself, as panniculitis can be described as an autoimmune disease, however its triggering factors remains to be unknown. Underlying genetic factor may be associated; however neither confirmed nor rejected.\n\nAbout 25% of previously reported AGL is associated with panniculitis. Panniculitis is an inflammatory nodules of the subcutaneous fat, and in this type of AGL, adipose destruction originates locally at the infection or inflammation site and develops into generalized lipodystrophy.\n\nAGL with autoimmune origin is responsible for about 25% of all AGL reports. Those with autoimmune origin stems from other autoimmune diseases, most commonly with juvenile dermatomyositis and autoimmune hepatitis, but also occurs with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematous, and Sjogren syndrome.\n\nAlthough idiopathic AGL accounts for about 50% of all AGL, it can vary in its origin and its is unclear how it develops.\n\nNo known preventive measurement has been reported.\n\nThe exact pathophysiologic mechanism is mostly unknown; however, each of three main origins, autoimmune, panniculitis, or idiopathic, may have different mechanisms of pathogenesis.\n\nNormally, adipose tissues contain adipocytes to store fat for energy during fasting period and release leptin to regulate homeostasis of energy and sensitize insulin. In AGL patients, adipose tissues are insufficient and leads to fat deposition in non-adipose tissues, such as muscle or liver, resulting in hypertriglyceridemia. Continuous elevation in triglyceride levels further contributes to metabolic problems including insulin resistance. As the level of leptin in the body is proportional to the amount of adipose tissue present, AGL patients also have a deficiency of leptin which contributes to excessive eating and worsens the metabolic syndrome.\n\nIn a few patients with AGL, the presence of antibodies against adipocyte has been identified.\n\nDiagnosis is made comprehensively, together with visual observation, body fat assessment, a review of lab panels consisting of A1c, glucose, lipid, and patient history.\n\nCaliper measurements of skinfold thickness is recommended to quantify fat loss as a supportive information. In this measurement, skinfold thickness of less than 10mm for men and 22mm for women at the anterior thigh is suggestive cutoff for the diagnosis of lipodystrophy. Less commonly, biphotonic absorptiometry and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be done for the measurement of body fat.\n\nOther forms of insulin resistance may be assessed for differential diagnosis. Resistance to conventional therapy for hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia serves as an indication for lipodystrophy. Specifically, the diagnosis is strongly considered for those requiring ≥200 units/day of insulin and persistent elevation of ≥250 mg/dl of triglyceride levels.\n\nThe use of leptin levels should be carefully approached. While low leptin levels are helpful for making the diagnosis, they are not specific for the lipodystrophy. High leptin levels can help excluding the possible lipodystrophy, but there is no well-established standardized leptin ranges.\n\nInitial and general approach for AGL patients are to treat the metabolic complications such as leptin-replacement therapy and/or to control the abnormal levels of lipids or glucose levels. Anti-diabetic medications such as insulin, metformin, or thiazolidinediones are used for insulin-resistance or high glucose levels, or statins or fibrates are used for hyperlipidemia. If symptoms persist, metreleptin can be prescribed.\n\nMetreleptin (MYALEPT) is a recombinant human leptin analog and was approved by FDA in 2014 for generalized lipodystrophy as an adjunct therapy to diet to treat the complication of leptin deficiency. It is the only drug option approved for generalized lipodystrophy-related symptoms and is not intended to use for patients with HIV-related lipodystrophy or complications of partial lipodystrophy. Although it is a recombinant human leptin analog, it is not completely the same as natural leptin as it is produced in \"e. coli\" and has added methionine residues at is amino terminus. It works by binding to the human leptin receptor, ObR, and activates the receptor. The receptor belongs to the Class I cytokine family and signals the JAK/STAT pathway. It is available as 11.3 mg powder in a vial for subcutaneous injection upon reconstitution and needs to be protected from the light. For treatment, patients and their doctors need to be enrolled and certified in the Myalept Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) Program because people on this treatment has a risk of developing anti-metreleptin antibodies that decrease the effectiveness of metreleptin, and increased risk of lymphoma. Clinical study with GL patients who took metreleptin had increased insulin sensitivity, as indicated by decreased HbA1c and fasting glucose level, and reduced caloric intake as well as fasting triglyceride levels.\n\nPlasmapheresis was previously an option for lowering extremely high triglyceride levels for preventing pancreatitis and painful xanthoma, but its use has been decreased after the approval of metreleptin.\n\nCosmetic treatments, such as facial reconstruction or implants, can be done to replace adipose tissues.\n\nLifestyle modifications are also recommended, including changes into less fat diet and exercise.\n\nThe prognosis of the disease is unknown as of December, 2017.\n\nMany researches for the treatment of lipodystrophy focus on the safety and efficacy of leptin replacement therapy and the outlook is positive in many studies.\n\nAccording to a prospective, open-label clinical study at the NIH, metreleptin decreased the fasting glucose level from 180 mg/dL to 121 mg/dL, HbA1c from 8.4% to 6.4%, total cholesterol from 214 mg/dL to 146 mg/dL, and triglycerides from 467 (200-847)mg/dL to 180 (106-312)mg/dL after 12 months of use (p<0.001). Patients also had decreased use of anti-diabetic medications, lipid-lowering medications, and insulin (p<0.001). In other clinical reports studying 3 patients diagnosed with AGL accompanied by hypoleptinemia, uncontrolled diabetes, and hypertriglyceridemia who were treated with metreleptin for 12–168 weeks, patients had great reduction in HbA1c, from 10.9% to 5.8%, and had normalized serum triglycerides with a mean decline of 90%. Patients reported improved quality of life and reduced need for other medications without significant adverse effects.\n\nOne research published in 2017 reported an middle-aged patient developed AGL after treatment and recovery for autoimmune thrombocytopenia that included immunoglobulin therapy and prednisone, which suggests the autoimmune trigger may contribute to the development of AGL.\n\nOther researches focus on genetics of lipodystrophy; however its relevance to acquired generalized lipodystrophy has not been confirmed so far. One clinical report published in July 2017 stated two brothers with juvenile-onset generalized lipodystrophy was due to lamin C-specific mutation but it is unknown at this point if this will fall into acquired or familial lipodystrophy.\n\nThere has been many published case reports. Meta-analysis of published case reports published within the decade will be very helpful in establishing patient demographic, etiologies, and prognosis of the diagnosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "10195420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10195420", "title": "American Council on Exercise", "text": "American Council on Exercise\n\nThe American Council on Exercise (ACE) is a nonprofit fitness certification, education and training provider with more than 73,000 certified professionals who hold more than 83,000 ACE certifications. \nFounded in 1985, American Council on Exercise (ACE)'s national headquarters is located in San Diego.\n\nIn 2003, American Council on Exercise was granted accreditation by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies for all four of its primary certification programs.\n\nScott Goudeseune is president and chief executive officer.\n\n4. http://destination-jacked.com \n\n"}
{"id": "21198228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21198228", "title": "British Occupational Hygiene Society", "text": "British Occupational Hygiene Society\n\nThe British Occupational Hygiene Society (BOHS), whose vision is \"a healthy working environment for everyone\", was established as a charity in 1953 to reduce work-related ill-health, and makes a distinct and valuable contribution to preventing ill-health in the workplace. BOHS is both a learned society, publishing the world-renowned, scientific, peer-reviewed journal, \"Annals of Occupational Hygiene\", and the only professional society representing qualified occupational hygienists in the UK. The Society supports, develops and connects its members with resources, guidance, events and training, and encourages new members. Its Faculty of Occupational Hygiene sets professional standards and is the only UK examining board for qualifications in occupational hygiene which are recognised internationally.\n\nBOHS is the only UK based organisation that:\n\nOccupational hygiene is the scientific discipline that protects people against the wide range of health risks that can arise from exposure to health hazards at work. The breadth of knowledge and skills brought together in occupational hygiene is unique.\n\nIt focuses:\n\nBOHS is a not-for-profit, non-governmental organisation which is managed by a board of directors, known as the Council. The Faculty of Occupational Hygiene is run by the Faculty Board and reports to Council through its Registrar. The Society’s Head Office, based in Derby, is led by a Chief Executive who is directly accountable to Council, with a senior management team responsible for finance and operations, membership services, conferences and events, publications, examinations management, marketing and communications, and overall administrative services. It also has a range of committees, chaired by members and with input from other volunteers and staff; these committees, alongside a team of regional organisers (also volunteers from the membership) provide technical, strategic and project-by-project input to the Society’s various initiatives and on-going activities.\n\nThe Faculty of Occupational Hygiene is the professional arm of BOHS. Membership is restricted to BOHS members with specific qualifications in occupational hygiene and related subjects.\n\nAs the examining board for the profession, the Faculty administers a suite of examinations and awards qualifications in occupational hygiene and allied subjects, and provides a qualifications’ verification service. \n\nThe Faculty also runs the Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Scheme, which is mandatory for all non-retired Faculty members. \n\nIt maintains a Directory of Occupational Hygiene Services, which is searchable online or available in hard copy, and is free of charge.\n\nBOHS is a founding member of the International Occupational Hygiene Association (IOHA). It has collaborated with other global organisations including the International Labour Organization, World Health Organization, American Industrial Hygiene Association, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Institute of Occupational Medicine, Institution of Occupational Safety and Health, and Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors, among others to carry out research, develop training and sponsor conferences.\n\nThe British Occupational Hygiene Society has worked in partnership with a number of health and safety professional bodies to develop the Occupational Safety & Health Consultant Register (OSHCR). This will establish a new benchmark standard for health and safety consultants and help to raise the quality of advice being given to businesses.\n\nBOHS publishes the \"Annals of Occupational Hygiene\", a peer-reviewed scientific journal (via Oxford University Press). Additionally, the Society produces Exposure magazine, e-bulletins, guidance and position statements, and a directory of occupational hygiene services.\n\nEvery two years, BOHS awards the Thomas Bedford Memorial Prize. Named for the society's first president and instituted initially in 1978, the prize is given to the best paper in the \"Annals of Occupational Hygiene\" and includes a £500 award. BOHS also gives the Ted King and David Hickish Awards to recognize top certificate- and diploma-earning hygienists. Annually, the Peter Isaac Award is given each year to honor an occupational hygienist for valuable contributions workplace health. The Bedford Award which was instituted in 1978, named after the first President of BOHS, Thomas Bedford CBE, and is the Society’s prime honour. It is awarded irregularly, and marks outstanding contributions to the discipline of occupational hygiene, either in the general field or in work for the Society. \n"}
{"id": "9042939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9042939", "title": "Candex", "text": "Candex\n\nCandex is a dietary supplement manufactured by Pure Essence Laboratories. It is marketed as an enzymatic remedy to treat the yeast infection candida. Having the status of a dietary supplement, its efficiency has not been proven in scientifically controlled and peer-reviewed trials. Similar formulas exist, such as Candigest.\n\nCandex contains the fibre digesting enzymes, cellulase and hemicellulase. The manufacturer claims because yeast cell walls are built mainly of fibre, which is mostly made of the complex carbohydrate, cellulose, cellulase and hemicellulase are capable of killing yeast.\n\nHowever, a review of the scientific literature suggests that this mechanism of action is unlikely to be true. For while plant cell walls are made predominantly of cellulose, yeast cell walls are not (yeast are classified as fungi). For example, in the article, \"Synthesis of the yeast cell wall and its regulation\" in the \"Annual Review of Biochemistry\", there is mention of many other complex carbohydrates found in yeast cell walls, but there is no mention of cellulose nor is cellulose mentioned as a cell wall component in \"candida albicans\", the yeast strain most frequently associated with human fungal infections. Indeed, scientists have even modified yeast cells so they can make their own cellulases. This allows the modified yeast to ferment widely available plant material, which is made mostly of cellulose, and turn plant cellulose into alcohol for biofuels (cellulosic ethanol). One scientific article even called yeast an \"ideal host strain\" for producing cellulases. This is consistent with cellulase not being toxic to yeast and no mention was made of any toxic effect of cellulases on the modified yeast.\n\nFurthermore, while many internet sites claim that cellulase enzymes might degrade the chitin found in yeast cell walls, once again no evidence is presented for this. Enzymes are known to be highly specific and in general cellulases have not been found to be active on chitin. To quote one scientific article: \"The purified cellulase was devoid of\nchitinase, pectinase and mannanase activities\". Moreover, in contrast to the previously mentioned fact that yeast bioengineered to make cellulases remain healthy, when a chitinase gene was bioengineered into the same yeast strain it resulted in complete growth inhibition. This again suggests cellulases do not in general contain significant chitinase activity.\nSimilarly, although many internet sites claim cellulase degrades yeast biofilms, no peer-reviewed scientific evidence was offered in support of this. The exact chemical composition of yeast biofilms remains poorly understood and although there is evidence for it containing many different types of polysaccharides, there was no evidence presented that it contains cellulose or is susceptible to cellulase digest.\n\nThe manufacturer further claims Candex enzymes kill yeast but don't stimulate the yeast to release toxins, thereby avoiding unpleasant die-off reactions, contrary to using fungicidal drugs and herbs. But once again, there is no reference to a peer-reviewed scientific journal to support these claims. An alternative explanation might be that there are no unpleasant die-off reactions simply because the Candex enzymes do not effectively kill yeast.\n\nThe remaining enzymes found in Candex: amylase, glucoamylase, diastase, and invertase are involved in basic carbohydrate and sugar metabolic pathways and are not involved in cell wall lysis. For example, Invertase catalyzes the conversion of sucrose (common table sugar) into glucose and fructose. Much of the invertase used in the food industry is actually purified from yeast itself as yeast contain an abundance of their own naturally produced invertase.\n\nCandex is sold in sizes of 40 or 120 capsules. 4 capsules equal one daily dose, which may later be reduced. 4 capsules contain:\n\nBeing classified as a dietary supplement, it is not approved by the US Food and Drug Administration to diagnose, treat, or prevent any condition of disease.\n\nA non-verified study from 2002 by the Progressive Medical Group claims that after testing the remedy on 52 patients, all of them had \"at least minimal improvement not only in any upper gastrointestinal symptoms (probably associated with the natural digestive enzyme), but also in lower gastrointestinal symptoms and yeast-associated problems (altered cognition, craving carbohydrates, arthralgias, myalgias, allergies, etc.).\" The study claims that side effects were \"minimal with only rare gastrointestinal symptoms (nausea, etc.) that resolved when association with food intake was altered\", and that these side effects were deemed to not be statistically significant. The study has not been reviewed by scientific peers, nor published in medical journals. Some have questioned its usefulness due to the lack of a control group.\n\nAs of January 2007, no peer reviewed articles were indexed by the National Library of Medicine referencing Candex.\n\n"}
{"id": "29156738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29156738", "title": "Charlotte Kasl", "text": "Charlotte Kasl\n\nCharlotte Sophia Kasl, PhD, (née Davis, AKA Charlotte Davis Kasl) is a U.S. psychologist and author.\n\nShe pioneered the \"16-Steps for Discovery and Empowerment\" as an alternative to the Twelve-step program for recovery from addiction, compulsion, or other behavioral problems.\n\nShe wrote several books based on some aspects of Sufi, Quaker, and Buddhist spiritual beliefs and traditions.\n\nLifetime Achievement Award, the National Council on Sexual Addiction and Compulsivity, 1997.\n\nShe earned an M.A. in Piano, The University of Michigan; and Ph.D. in Counseling, Ohio University, 1982.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49973615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49973615", "title": "Childbirth in Uzbekistan", "text": "Childbirth in Uzbekistan\n\nTraditions associated with the childbirth in Uzbekistan are based on merging of the traditions of various ethnic groups which contributed to the creation of the Uzbek people.\n\nThe birth of a child is usually accompanied with “Aqiqah”. Based on the means of the family they are slaughtering one sheep during the birth of a girl and two- for the birth of a boy. After 9, 10, or 11 days after the birth of the boy they carried the rite of laying baby into the Beshik (cradle), and after 21 or 40 days (Chilla – 40 days after the birth) as a rule they arranged “Beshik Tuyi” (\"cradle celebration\"). If the first child is a girl, it is believed that the seven generations of this family will live in prosperity, and “Beshik Tuyi” is carried out after 7 days from the birth. When the child begins to walk by himself they arranged “Oyek turi”. In Bausun, Sherabad, Altynsay, Denau, Sariasiya regions this ceremony is called “Tushov Kesdi”. They prepare it in advance and fix the date. A child is dressed in new clothes, from the cotton yarn they twist a thin thread (“Toshov”) and tie a child’s feet with it, but so that this thread does not interfere with child’ movement. In the presence of the guests a child begins to walk and with the words “tushov kesildi, tushov kesildi” this thread should be cut with scissors by any of elders. Baby is showered with coins, sweets, what is called “sachala”- “sochki”.\n\nA traditional rite of sunnat (khatna) tuyi was also called “Sunnat tuyi”– in Obodon, Tula villages of hurchinskiy region; chokborron- in Chakar, Eshon villages of Uzunskiyn region. Sunnat tui is carried when a child is in an odd number of years, i.e. in 3, 5, 7, in some cases – 9, 11 years.\n\nDepending on the capabilities kurash and kupkari with the prizes were held on the Sunnat tuys. A close relatives ascended to the roof of the house and showered the boy with money and sweets from there. There were songs, melodies, epics, the men sang “Heyr”, women- “Lo-o-lo”.\n\nIn some villages in Northern Surkhan, “Utin yigar” (it is like to collect some woods for housekeeping) events are carried before, the rite in which the boys dividing into the groups and go to the mountains and gather wood. The one, who will pick more firewood, is awarded with the prize. Men responsible for the activity assigned a close friends and relatives for various services. In order to make the event successful and to honor the memory of ancestors they read “Khatmi Kuran” first.\n\nUzbek people have a saying: “Tuyga tuyona bilan”. (It means to come to the wedding with a gift). Wedding expenses are generally significant and tuyona (wedding gift) – is the material support from the friends and relatives.\n"}
{"id": "17018483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17018483", "title": "Cholderton and District Water Company", "text": "Cholderton and District Water Company\n\nThe Cholderton and District Water Company is a private water supplier, serving an area on the border of Hampshire and Wiltshire in the south of England. Until 1st May 2018 it was by far the smallest licensed water company in England and Wales, but since this time is no longer regulated by Ofwat and its area has formally become part of the area covered by Wessex Water as a licensed water company. It supplies about 2500 people over an area of around 21 km² in the parishes of Cholderton and Bulford in Wiltshire, and Shipton Bellinger, Thruxton, Amport and Quarley in Hampshire and is a private limited company with company number 357098.\n\nThe water company was established by an Act of Parliament in 1904 by Henry Charles Stephens, of Finchley, north London, the son of Henry Stephens, the founder of the Stephens Ink Company. It is owned by the Cholderton Estate.\n\nCholderton and District Water Company does not provide sewerage services; mains sewerage facilities are provided by Southern Water in its area.\n\n"}
{"id": "45478843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45478843", "title": "Collège des médecins du Québec", "text": "Collège des médecins du Québec\n\nThe Collège des médecins du Québec, or Quebec College of Physicians, is a professional organization responsible for setting educational standards and policing its members at the provincial level in Quebec. Its mission is to promote quality medical care in order to protect the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "355849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355849", "title": "Equal opportunity", "text": "Equal opportunity\n\nEqual opportunity (also known as equality of opportunity) arises from the similar treatment of all people, unhampered by artificial barriers or prejudices or preferences, except when particular distinctions can be explicitly justified. According to this often complex and contested concept, the intent is that important jobs in an organization should go to those persons who are the \"most qualified\" – persons most likely to perform ably in a given task – and not go to persons for reasons deemed arbitrary or irrelevant, such as circumstances of birth, upbringing, having well-connected relatives or friends, religion, sex, ethnicity, race, caste, or involuntary personal attributes such as disability, age, gender identity, or sexual orientation. Though accommodation of persons with special needs and disabilities are done through job restructuring activities considering their potential for same level of performance, for experiencing same level of benefits and privileges as others.\n\nChances for advancement should be open to everybody interested, such that they have \"an equal chance to compete within the framework of goals and the structure of rules established\". The idea is to remove arbitrariness from the selection process and base it on some \"pre-agreed basis of fairness, with the assessment process being related to the type of position\" and emphasizing procedural and legal means. Individuals should succeed or fail based on their own efforts and not extraneous circumstances such as having well-connected parents. It is opposed to nepotism and plays a role in whether a social structure is seen as legitimate. The concept is applicable in areas of public life in which benefits are earned and received such as employment and education, although it can apply to many other areas as well. Equal opportunity is central to the concept of meritocracy.\n\nPeople with differing political viewpoints often view the concept differently. The meaning of equal opportunity is debated in fields such as political philosophy, sociology and psychology. It is being applied to increasingly wider areas beyond employment, including lending, housing, college admissions, voting rights and elsewhere. In the classical sense, equality of opportunity is closely aligned with the concept of equality before the law and ideas of meritocracy.\n\nGenerally, the terms \"equality of opportunity\" and \"equal opportunity\" are interchangeable, with occasional slight variations; the former has more of a sense of being an abstract political concept while \"equal opportunity\" is sometimes used as an adjective, usually in the context of employment regulations, to identify an employer, a hiring approach, or law. Equal opportunity provisions have been written into regulations and have been debated in courtrooms. It is sometimes conceived as a legal right against discrimination. It is an ideal which has become increasingly widespread in Western nations during the last several centuries and is intertwined with social mobility, most often with upward mobility and with rags to riches stories: \n\nAccording to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", the concept assumes that society is stratified with a diverse range of roles, some of which are more desirable than others. The benefit of equality of opportunity is to bring fairness to the selection process for coveted roles in corporations, associations, nonprofits, universities and elsewhere. According to one view, there is no \"formal linking\" between equality of opportunity and political structure, in the sense that there can be equality of opportunity in democracies, autocracies and in communist nations, although it is primarily associated with a competitive market economy and embedded within the legal frameworks of democratic societies. People with different political perspectives see equality of opportunity differently: liberals disagree about which conditions are needed to ensure it and many \"old-style\" conservatives see inequality and hierarchy in general as beneficial out of a respect for tradition. It can apply to a specific hiring decision, or to all hiring decisions by a specific company, or rules governing hiring decisions for an entire nation. The scope of equal opportunity has expanded to cover more than issues regarding the rights of minority groups, but covers practices regarding \"recruitment, hiring, training, layoffs, discharge, recall, promotions, responsibility, wages, sick leave, vacation, overtime, insurance, retirement, pensions, and various other benefits\".\n\nThe concept has been applied to numerous aspects of public life, including accessibility of polling stations, care provided to HIV patients, whether men and women have equal opportunities to travel on a spaceship, bilingual education, skin color of models in Brazil, television time for political candidates, army promotions, admittance to universities and ethnicity in the United States. The term is interrelated with and often contrasted with other conceptions of equality such as equality of outcome and equality of autonomy. Equal opportunity emphasizes the personal ambition and talent and abilities of the individual, rather than his or her qualities based on membership in a group, such as a social class or race or extended family. Further, it is seen as unfair if external factors that are viewed as being beyond the control of a person significantly influence what happens to him or her. Equal opportunity then emphasizes a fair process whereas in contrast equality of outcome emphasizes a fair outcome. In sociological analysis, equal opportunity is seen as a factor correlating positively with social mobility, in the sense that it can benefit society overall by maximizing well-being.\n\nThere are different concepts lumped under equality of opportunity.\n\nFormal equality of opportunity is a lack of (unfair) direct discrimination. It requires that deliberate discrimination be relevant and meritocratic. For instance, job interviews should only discriminate against applicants for job incompetence. Universities should not accept a less-capable applicant instead of a more-capable applicant who can't pay tuition.\n\nSubstantive equality of opportunity is absence of indirect discrimination. It requires that society be fair and meritocratic. For instance, a person should not be more likely to die at work because they were born in a country with corrupt labor law enforcement. No one should have to drop out of school because their family needs of a full-time carer or wage earner.\n\nFormal equality of opportunity does not imply substantive equality of opportunity. Firing any employee who gets pregnant is formally equal, but substantively it hurts women more.\n\nSubstantive inequality is often more difficult to address. A political party that formally allows anyone to join, but meets in a non-wheelchair-accessible building far from public transit, substantively discriminates against both young and old members as they are less likely to be able-bodied car-owners. However, if the party raises membership dues in order to afford a better building, it discourages poor members instead. Grade-cutoff university admission is formally fair, but if in practice it overwhelmingly picks women and graduates of expensive user-fee schools, it is substantively unfair to men and the poor. The unfairness has already taken place and the university can choose to try to counterbalance it, but it likely can not single-handedly make pre-university opportunities equal. Social mobility and the Great Gatsby curve are often used as an indicator of substantive equality of opportunity.\n\nBoth equality concepts say that it is unfair and inefficient if extraneous factors rule people's lives. Both accept as fair inequality based on relevant, meritocratic factors. They differ in the scope of the methods used to promote them.\n\nFormal equality of opportunity is sometimes referred to as the nondiscrimination principle or described as the absence of direct discrimination, or described in the narrow sense as equality of access. It is characterized by:\n\nThe formal approach is seen as a somewhat basic \"no frills\" or \"narrow\" approach to equality of opportunity, a minimal standard of sorts, limited to the public sphere as opposed to private areas such as the family, marriage, or religion. What is considered \"fair\" and \"unfair\" is spelled out in advance. An expression of this version appeared in \"The New York Times\": \"There should be an equal opportunity for all. Each and every person should have as great or as small an opportunity as the next one. There should not be the unfair, unequal, superior opportunity of one individual over another.\"\nThis sense was also expressed by economists Milton and Rose Friedman in their 1980 book \"Free to Choose\". The Friedmans explained that equality of opportunity was \"not to be interpreted literally\" since some children are born blind while others are born sighted, but that \"its real meaning is ... a career open to the talents\". This means that there should be \"no arbitrary obstacles\" blocking a person from realizing their ambitions: \"Not birth, nationality, color, religion, sex, nor any other irrelevant characteristic should determine the opportunities that are open to a person – only his abilities\".\n\nA somewhat different view was expressed by John Roemer, who used the term \"nondiscrimination principle\" to mean that \"all individuals who possess the attributes relevant for the performance of the duties of the position in question be included in the pool of eligible candidates, and that an individual's possible occupancy of the position be judged only with respect to those relevant attributes\". Matt Cavanagh argued that race and sex should not matter when getting a job, but that the sense of equality of opportunity should not extend much further than preventing straightforward discrimination.\n\nIt is a relatively straightforward task for legislators to ban blatant efforts to favor one group over another and encourage equality of opportunity as a result. Japan banned gender-specific job descriptions in advertising as well as sexual discrimination in employment as well as other practices deemed unfair, although a subsequent report suggested that the law was having minimal effect in securing Japanese women high positions in management. In the United States, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued a private test preparation firm, Kaplan, for unfairly using credit histories to discriminate against African Americans in terms of hiring decisions. According to one analysis, it is possible to imagine a democracy which meets the formal criteria (1 through 3), but which still favors wealthy candidates who are selected in free and fair elections.\n\nSubstantive equality of opportunity, sometimes called fair equality of opportunity, is a somewhat broader and more expansive concept than the more limiting formal equality of opportunity and it deals with what is sometimes described as indirect discrimination. It goes farther and is more controversial than the formal variant; and has been thought to be much harder to achieve, with greater disagreement about how to achieve greater equality; and has been described as \"unstable\", particularly if the society in question is unequal to begin with in terms of great disparity of wealth. It has been identified as more of a left-leaning political position, but this is not a hard-and-fast rule. The substantive model is advocated by people who see limitations in the formal model: \nIn the substantive approach, the starting point before the race begins is unfair since people have had differing experiences before even approaching the competition. The substantive approach examines the applicants themselves before applying for a position and judges whether they have equal abilities or talents; and if not, then it suggests that authorities (usually the government) take steps to make applicants more equal before they get to the point where they compete for a position and fixing the before-the-starting-point issues has sometimes been described as working towards \"fair access to qualifications\". It seeks to remedy inequalities perhaps because of an \"unfair disadvantage\" based sometimes on \"prejudice in the past\".\n\nAccording to John Hills, children of wealthy and well-connected parents usually have a decisive advantage over other types of children and he notes that \"advantage and disadvantage reinforce themselves over the life cycle, and often on to the next generation\" so that successful parents pass along their wealth and education to succeeding generations, making it difficult for others to climb up a social ladder. However, so-called positive action efforts to bring an underprivileged person up to speed before a competition begins are limited to the period of time before the evaluation begins. At that point, the \"final selection for posts must be made according to the principle the best person for the job\", that is, a less qualified applicant should not be chosen over a more qualified applicant. There are also nuanced views too: one position suggested that the unequal results following a competition were unjust if caused by bad luck, but just if chosen by the individual and that weighing matters such as personal responsibility was important. This variant of the substantive model has sometimes been called luck egalitarianism. Regardless of the nuances, the overall idea is still to give children from less fortunate backgrounds more of a chance, or to achieve at the beginning what some theorists call equality of condition. Writer Ha-Joon Chang expressed this view: \nIn a sense, substantive equality of opportunity moves the \"starting point\" further back in time. Sometimes it entails the use of affirmative action policies to help all contenders become equal before they get to the starting point, perhaps with greater training, or sometimes redistributing resources via restitution or taxation to make the contenders more equal. It holds that all who have a \"genuine opportunity to become qualified\" be given a chance to do so and it is sometimes based on a recognition that unfairness exists, hindering social mobility, combined with a sense that the unfairness should not exist or should be lessened in some manner. One example postulated was that a warrior society could provide special nutritional supplements to poor children, offer scholarships to military academies and dispatch \"warrior skills coaches\" to every village as a way to make opportunity substantively more fair. The idea is to give every ambitious and talented youth a chance to compete for prize positions regardless of their circumstances of birth.\n\nThe substantive approach tends to have a broader definition of extraneous circumstances which should be kept out of a hiring decision. One editorial writer suggested that among the many types of extraneous circumstances which should be kept out of hiring decisions was personal beauty, sometimes termed \"lookism\": \n\nThe substantive position was advocated by Bhikhu Parekh in 2000 in \"Rethinking Multiculturalism\", in which he wrote that \"all citizens should enjoy equal opportunities to acquire the capacities and skills needed to function in society and to pursue their self-chosen goals equally effectively\" and that \"equalising measures are justified on grounds of justice as well as social integration and harmony\". Parekh argued that equal opportunities included so-called cultural rights which are \"ensured by the politics of recognition\".\n\nAffirmative action programs usually fall under the substantive category. The idea is to help disadvantaged groups get back to a normal starting position after a long period of discrimination. The programs involve government action, sometimes with resources being transferred from an advantaged group to a disadvantaged one and these programs have been justified on the grounds that imposing quotas counterbalances the past discrimination as well as being a \"compelling state interest\" in diversity in society. For example, there was a case in São Paulo in Brazil of a quota imposed on the São Paulo Fashion Week to require that \"at least 10 percent of the models to be black or indigenous\" as a coercive measure to counteract a \"longstanding bias towards white models\". It does not have to be accomplished via government action: for example, in the 1980s in the United States, President Ronald Reagan dismantled parts of affirmative action, but one report in the \"Chicago Tribune\" suggested that companies remained committed to the principle of equal opportunity regardless of government requirements. In another instance, upper-middle-class students taking the Scholastic Aptitude Test in the United States performed better since they had had more \"economic and educational resources to prepare for these test than others\". The test itself was seen as fair in a formal sense, but the overall result was seen as nevertheless unfair. In India, the Indian Institutes of Technology found that to achieve substantive equality of opportunity the school had to reserve 22.5 percent of seats for applicants from \"historically disadvantaged schedule castes and tribes\". Elite universities in France began a special \"entrance program\" to help applicants from \"impoverished suburbs\".\n\nPhilosopher John Rawls offered this variant of substantive equality of opportunity and explained that it happens when individuals with the same \"native talent and the same ambition\" have the same prospects of success in competitions. Gordon Marshall offers a similar view with the words \"positions are to be open to all under conditions in which persons of similar abilities have equal access to office\". An example was given that if two persons X and Y have identical talent, but X is from a poor family while Y is from a rich one, then equality of fair opportunity is in effect when both X and Y have the same chance of winning the job. It suggests the ideal society is \"classless\" without a social hierarchy being passed from generation to generation, although parents can still pass along advantages to their children by genetics and socialization skills. One view suggests that this approach might advocate \"invasive interference in family life\". Marshall posed this question: \n\nEconomist Paul Krugman agrees mostly with the Rawlsian approach in that he would like to \"create the society each of us would want if we didn’t know in advance who we’d be\". Krugman elaborated: \"If you admit that life is unfair, and that there's only so much you can do about that at the starting line, then you can try to ameliorate the consequences of that unfairness\".\n\nSome theorists have posed a level playing field conception of equality of opportunity, similar in many respects to the substantive principle (although it has been used in different contexts to describe formal equality of opportunity) and it is a core idea regarding the subject of distributive justice espoused by John Roemer and Ronald Dworkin and others. Like the substantive notion, the level playing field conception goes farther than the usual formal approach. The idea is that initial \"unchosen inequalities\" – prior circumstances over which an individual had no control, but which impact his or her success in a given competition for a particular post – these unchosen inequalities should be eliminated as much as possible, according to this conception. According to Roemer, society should \"do what it can to level the playing field so that all those with relevant potential will eventually be admissible to pools of candidates competing for positions\". Afterwards, when an individual competes for a specific post, he or she might make specific choices which cause future inequalities – and these inequalities are deemed acceptable because of the previous presumption of fairness. This system helps undergird the legitimacy of a society's divvying up of roles as a result in the sense that it makes certain achieved inequalities \"morally acceptable\", according to persons who advocate this approach. This conception has been contrasted to the substantive version among some thinkers and it usually has ramifications for how society treats young persons in such areas as education and socialization and health care, but this conception has been criticized as well. John Rawls postulated the difference principle which argued that \"inequalities are justified only if needed to improve the lot of the worst off, for example by giving the talented an incentive to create wealth\".\n\nThere is some overlap among these different conceptions with the term \"meritocracy\" which describes an administrative system which rewards such factors as individual intelligence, credentials, education, morality, knowledge or other criteria believed to confer merit. Equality of opportunity is often seen as a major aspect of a meritocracy. One view was that equality of opportunity was more focused on what happens before the race begins while meritocracy is more focused on fairness at the competition stage. The term \"meritocracy\" can also be used in a negative sense to refer to a system in which an elite hold themselves in power by controlling access to merit (via access to education, experience, or bias in assessment or judgment).\n\nThere is general agreement that equality of opportunity is good for society, although there are diverse views about how it is good since it is a value judgement. It is generally viewed as a positive political ideal in the abstract sense. In nations where equality of opportunity is absent, it can negatively impact economic growth, according to some views and one report in Al Jazeera suggested that Egypt, Tunisia and other Middle Eastern nations were stagnating economically in part because of a dearth of equal opportunity. The principle of equal opportunity can conflict with notions of meritocracy in circumstances in which individual differences in human abilities are believed to be determined mostly by genetics as in such circumstances there can be conflict about how to achieve fairness in such situations.\n\nThere is general agreement that programs to bring about certain types of equality of opportunity can be difficult and that efforts to cause one result often have unintended consequences or cause other problems. There is agreement that the formal approach is easier to implement than the others, although there are difficulties there too.\n\nA government policy that requires equal treatment can pose problems for lawmakers. A requirement for government to provide equal health care services for all citizens can be prohibitively expensive. If government seeks equality of opportunity for citizens to get health care by rationing services using a maximization model to try to save money, new difficulties might emerge. For example, trying to ration health care by maximizing the \"quality-adjusted years of life\" might steer monies away from disabled persons even though they may be more deserving, according to one analysis. In another instance, BBC News questioned whether it was wise to ask female army recruits to undergo the same strenuous tests as their male counterparts since many women were being injured as a result.\n\nAge discrimination can present vexing challenges for policymakers trying to implement equal opportunity. According to several studies, attempts to be equally fair to both a young and an old person are problematic because the older person has presumably fewer years left to live and it may make more sense for a society to invest greater resources in a younger person's health. Treating both persons equally while following the letter of the equality of opportunity seems unfair from a different perspective.\n\nEfforts to achieve equal opportunity along one dimension can exacerbate unfairness in other dimensions. For example, take public bathrooms: if for the sake of fairness the physical area of men's and women's bathrooms is equal, the overall result may be unfair since men can use urinals, which require less physical space. In other words, a more fair arrangement may be to allot more physical space for women's restrooms. The sociologist Harvey Holotch explained: \"By creating men's and women's rooms of the same size, society guarantees that individual women will be worse off than individual men.\"\n\nAnother difficulty is that it is hard for a society to bring substantive equality of opportunity to every type of position or industry. If a nation focuses efforts on some industries or positions, then people with other talents may be left out. For example, in an example in the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", a warrior society might provide equal opportunity for all kinds of people to achieve military success through fair competition, but people with non-military skills such as farming may be left out.\n\nLawmakers have run into problems trying to implement equality of opportunity. In 2010 in Britain, a legal requirement \"forcing public bodies to try to reduce inequalities caused by class disadvantage\" was scrapped after much debate and replaced by a hope that organizations would try to focus more on \"fairness\" than \"equality\" as fairness is generally seen as a much vaguer concept than equality, but easier for politicians to manage if they are seeking to avoid fractious debate. In New York City, mayor Ed Koch tried to find ways to maintain the \"principle of equal treatment\" while arguing against more substantive and abrupt transfer payments called minority set-asides.\nMany countries have specific bodies tasked with looking at equality of opportunity issues. In the United States, for example, it is the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; in Britain, there is the Equality of Opportunity Committee as well as the Equality and Human Rights Commission; in Canada, the Royal Commission on the Status of Women has \"equal opportunity as its precept\"; and in China, the Equal Opportunities Commission handles matters regarding ethnic prejudice. In addition, there have been political movements pushing for equal treatment, such as the Women's Equal Opportunity League which in the early decades of the twentieth century, pushed for fair treatment by employers in the United States. One of the group's members explained: \n\nThe consensus view is that trying to measure equality of opportunity is difficult whether examining a single hiring decision or looking at groups over time.\n\nIt is difficult to prove unequal treatment although statistical analysis can provide indications of problems, but it is subject to conflicts over interpretation and methodological issues. For example, a study in 2007 by the University of Washington examined its own treatment of women. Researchers collected statistics about female participation in numerous aspects of university life, including percentages of women with full professorships (23 per cent), enrollment in programs such as nursing (90 per cent) and engineering (18 per cent). There is wide variation in how these statistics might be interpreted. For example, the 23 per cent figure for women with full professorships could be compared to the total population of women (presumably 50 per cent) perhaps using census data, or it might be compared to the percentage of women with full professorships at competing universities. It might be used in an analysis of how many women applied for the position of full professor compared to how many women attained this position. Further, the 23 per cent figure could be used as a benchmark or baseline figure as part of an ongoing longitudinal analysis to be compared with future surveys to track progress over time. In addition, the strength of the conclusions is subject to statistical issues such as sample size and bias. For reasons such as these, there is considerable difficulty with most forms of statistical interpretation.\nStatistical analysis of equal opportunity has been done using sophisticated examinations of computer databases. An analysis in 2011 by University of Chicago researcher Stefano Allesina examined 61,000 names of Italian professors by looking at the \"frequency of last names\", doing one million random drawings and he suggested that Italian academia was characterized by violations of equal opportunity practices as a result of these investigations. The last names of Italian professors tended to be similar more often than predicted by random chance. The study suggested that newspaper accounts showing that \"nine relatives from three generations of a single family (were) on the economics faculty\" at the University of Bari were not aberrations, but indicated a pattern of nepotism throughout Italian academia.\n\nThere is support for the view that often equality of opportunity is measured by the criteria of equality of outcome, although with difficulty. In one example, an analysis of relative equality of opportunity was done based on outcomes, such as a case to see whether hiring decisions were fair regarding men versus women—the analysis was done using statistics based on average salaries for different groups. In another instance, a cross-sectional statistical analysis was conducted to see whether social class affected participation in the United States Armed Forces during the Vietnam War: a report in \"Time\" by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology suggested that soldiers came from a variety of social classes and that the principle of equal opportunity had worked, possibly because soldiers had been chosen by a lottery process for conscription. In college admissions, equality of outcome can be measured directly by comparing offers of admission given to different groups of applicants: for example, there have been reports in newspapers of discrimination against Asian Americans regarding college admissions in the United States which suggest that Asian American applicants need higher grades and test scores to win admission to prestigious universities than other ethnic groups.\n\nEqual opportunity has been described as a fundamental basic notion in business and commerce and described by economist Adam Smith as a basic economic precept. There has been research suggesting that \"competitive markets will tend to drive out such discrimination\" since employers or institutions which hire based on arbitrary criteria will be weaker as a result and not perform as well as firms which embrace equality of opportunity. Firms competing for overseas contracts have sometimes argued in the press for equal chances during the bidding process, such as when American oil corporations wanted equal shots at developing oil fields in Sumatra; and firms, seeing how fairness is beneficial while competing for contracts, can apply the lesson to other areas such as internal hiring and promotion decisions. A report in \"USA Today\" suggested that the goal of equal opportunity was \"being achieved throughout most of the business and government labor markets because major employers pay based on potential and actual productivity\".\n\nFair opportunity practices include measures taken by an organization to ensure fairness in the employment process. A basic definition of equality is the idea of equal treatment and respect. In job advertisements and descriptions, the fact that the employer is an equal opportunity employer is sometimes indicated by the abbreviations EOE or MFDV, which stands for Minority, Female, Disabled, Veteran. Analyst Ross Douthat in \"The New York Times\" suggested that equality of opportunity depends on a rising economy which brings new chances for upward mobility and he suggested that greater equality of opportunity is more easily achieved during \"times of plenty\". Efforts to achieve equal opportunity can rise and recede, sometimes as a result of economic conditions or political choices.\n\nAccording to professor David Christian of Macquarie University, an underlying Big History trend has been a shift from seeing people as resources to exploit towards a perspective of seeing people as individuals to empower. According to Christian, in many ancient agrarian civilizations, roughly nine of every ten persons was a peasant exploited by a ruling class. In the past thousand years, there has been a gradual movement in the direction of greater respect for equal opportunity as political structures based on generational hierarchies and feudalism broke down during the late Middle Ages and new structures emerged during the Renaissance. Monarchies were replaced by democracies: kings were replaced by parliaments and congresses. Slavery was also abolished generally. The new entity of the nation state emerged with highly specialized parts, including corporations, laws and new ideas about citizenship as well as values about individual rights found expression in constitutions, laws and statutes.\nIn the United States, one legal analyst suggested that the real beginning of the modern sense of equal opportunity was in the Fourteenth Amendment which provided \"equal protection under the law\". The amendment did not mention equal opportunity directly, but it helped undergird a series of later rulings which dealt with legal struggles, particularly by African Americans and later women, seeking greater political and economic power in the growing republic. In 1933, a congressional \"Unemployment Relief Act\" forbade discrimination \"on the basis of race, color, or creed\". The Supreme Court's 1954 \"Brown v. Board of Education\" decision furthered government initiatives to end discrimination.\n\nIn 1961, President John F. Kennedy signed Executive Order 10925 which enabled a presidential committee on equal opportunity, which was soon followed by President Lyndon B. Johnson's Executive Order 11246. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 became the legal underpinning of equal opportunity in employment. Businesses and other organizations learned to comply with the rulings by specifying fair hiring and promoting practices and posting these policy notices on bulletin boards, employee handbooks and manuals as well as training sessions and films. Courts dealt with issues about equal opportunity, such as the 1989 Wards Cove decision, the Supreme Court ruled that statistical evidence by itself was insufficient to prove racial discrimination. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was established, sometimes reviewing charges of discrimination cases which numbered in the tens of thousands annually during the 1990s. Some law practices specialized in employment law. Conflict between formal and substantive approaches manifested itself in backlashes, sometimes described as reverse discrimination, such as the Bakke case when a white male applicant to medical school sued on the basis of being denied admission because of a quota system preferring minority applicants. In 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act prohibited discrimination against disabled persons, including cases of equal opportunity. In 2008, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act prevents employers from using genetic information when hiring, firing, or promoting employees.\n\nMany economists measure the degree of equal opportunity with measures of economic mobility. For instance, Joseph Stiglitz asserts that with five economic divisions and full equality of opportunity, \"20 percent of those in the bottom fifth would see their children in the bottom fifth. Denmark almost achieves that – 25 percent are stuck there. Britain, supposedly notorious for its class divisions, does only a little worse (30 percent). That means they have a 70 percent chance of moving up. The chances of moving up in America, though, are markedly smaller (only 58 percent of children born to the bottom group make it out), and when they do move up, they tend to move up only a little\". Similar analyses can be performed for each economic division and overall. They all show how far from the ideal all industrialized nations are and how correlated measures of equal opportunity are with income inequality and wealth inequality. Equal opportunity has ramifications beyond income; the American Human Development Index, rooted in the capabilities approach pioneered by Amartya Sen, is used to measure opportunity across geographies in the U.S. using health, education and standard of living outcomes.\n\nThere is agreement that the concept of equal opportunity lacks a precise definition. While it generally describes \"open and fair competition\" with equal chances for achieving sought-after jobs or positions as well as an absence of discrimination, the concept is elusive with a \"wide range of meanings\". It is hard to measure, and implementation poses problems as well as disagreements about what to do.\n\nThere have been various criticisms directed at both the substantive and formal approach. One account suggests that left-leaning thinkers who advocate equality of outcome fault even formal equality of opportunity on the grounds that it \"legitimates inequalities of wealth and income\". John W. Gardner suggested several views: (1) that inequalities will always exist regardless of trying to erase them; (2) that bringing everyone \"fairly to the starting line\" without dealing with the \"destructive competitiveness that follows\"; (3) any equalities achieved will entail future inequalities. Substantive equality of opportunity has led to concerns that efforts to improve fairness \"ultimately collapses into the different one of equality of outcome or condition\".\n\nEconomist Larry Summers advocated an approach of focusing on equality of opportunity and not equality of outcomes and that the way to strengthen equal opportunity was to bolster public education. A contrasting report in \"The Economist\" criticized efforts to contrast equality of opportunity and equality of outcome as being opposite poles on a hypothetical ethical scale, such that equality of opportunity should be the \"highest ideal\" while equality of outcome was \"evil\". Rather, the report argued that any difference between the two types of equality was illusory and that both terms were highly interconnected. According to this argument, wealthier people have greater opportunities – wealth itself can be considered as \"distilled opportunity\" – and children of wealthier parents have access to better schools, health care, nutrition and so forth. Accordingly, people who endorse equality of opportunity may like the idea of it in principle, yet at the same time they would be unwilling to take the extreme steps or \"titanic interventions\" necessary to achieve real intergenerational equality. A slightly different view in \"The Guardian\" suggested that equality of opportunity was merely a \"buzzword\" to sidestep the thornier political question of income inequality.\n\nThere is speculation that since equality of opportunity is only one of sometimes competing \"justice norms\", there is a risk that following equality of opportunity too strictly might cause problems in other areas. A hypothetical example was suggested: suppose wealthier people gave excessive amounts of campaign contributions; suppose further that these contributions resulted in better regulations; and then laws limiting such contributions on the basis of equal opportunity for all political participants may have the unintended long term consequence of making political decision-making lackluster and possibly hurting the groups that it was trying to protect. Philosopher John Kekes makes a similar point in his book \"The Art of Politics\" in which he suggests that there is a danger to elevating any one particular political good – including equality of opportunity – without balancing competing goods such as justice, property rights and others. Kekes advocated having a balanced perspective, including a continuing dialog between cautionary elements and reform elements. A similar view was expressed by Ronald Dworkin in \"The Economist\": \n\nEconomist Paul Krugman sees equality of opportunity as a \"non-Utopian compromise\" which works and is a \"pretty decent arrangement\" which varies from country to country. However, there are differing views, such as by Matt Cavanagh, who criticised equality of opportunity in his 2002 book \"Against Equality of Opportunity\". Cavanath favored a limited approach of opposing specific kinds of discrimination as steps to help people get greater control over their lives.\n\nConservative thinker Dinesh D'Souza criticized equality of opportunity on the basis that \"it is an ideal that cannot and should not be realized through the actions of the government\" and added that \"for the state to enforce equal opportunity would be to contravene the true meaning of the Declaration and to subvert the principle of a free society\". D'Souza described how his parenting undermined equality of opportunity: \nD'Souza argued that it was wrong for government to try to bring his daughter down, or to force him to raise up other people's children, but a counterargument is that there is a benefit to everybody, including D'Souza's daughter, to have a society with less anxiety about downward mobility, less class resentment and less possible violence.\n\nAn argument similar to D'Souza's was raised by Nozick in \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\", who wrote that the only way to achieve equality of opportunity was \"directly worsening the situations of those more favored with opportunity, or by improving the situation of those less well-favored\". Nozick gave an argument of two suitors competing to marry one \"fair lady\": X was plain while Y was better looking and more intelligent. If Y did not exist, then \"fair lady\" would have married X, but Y exists and so she marries Y. Nozick asks: \"Does suitor X have a legitimate complaint against Y on the basis of unfairness since Y did not earn his good looks or intelligence?\". Nozick suggests that there is no grounds for complaint. Nozick argued against equality of opportunity on the grounds that it violates the rights of property since the equal opportunity maxim interferes with an owner's right to do what he or she pleases with a property.\n\nProperty rights were a major component of the philosophy of John Locke and are sometimes referred to as \"Lockean rights\". The sense of the argument is along these lines: equal opportunity rules regarding, say, a hiring decision within a factory, made to bring about greater fairness, violate a factory owner's rights to run the factory as he or she sees best; it has been argued that a factory owner's right to property encompasses all decision-making within the factory as being part of those property rights. That some people's \"natural assets\" were unearned is irrelevant to the equation according to Nozick and he argued that people are nevertheless entitled to enjoy these assets and other things freely given by others.\n\nFriedrich Hayek felt that luck was too much of a variable in economics, such that one can not devise a system with any kind of fairness when many market outcomes are unintended. By sheer chance or random circumstances, a person may become wealthy just by being in the right place and time and Hayek argued that it is impossible to devise a system to make opportunities equal without knowing how such interactions may play out. Hayek saw not only equality of opportunity, but all of social justice as a \"mirage\".\n\nSome conceptions of equality of opportunity, particularly the substantive and level playing field variants, have been criticized on the basis that they make assumptions to the effect that people have similar genetic makeups. Other critics have suggested that social justice is more complex than mere equality of opportunity. Robert Nozick made the point that what happens in society can not always be reduced to competitions for a coveted position and in 1974 wrote that \"life is not a race in which we all compete for a prize which someone has established\", that there is \"no unified race\" and there is not some one person \"judging swiftness\".\n\n"}
{"id": "71025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71025", "title": "Exotic Shorthair", "text": "Exotic Shorthair\n\nThe Exotic Shorthair is a breed of cat developed to be a short-haired version of the Persian. The Exotic is similar to the Persian in many ways, including temperament and conformation, a flat nose and face with the exceptions of the short dense coat.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the Persian was used as an outcross by some American Shorthair breeders. This was done in secret in order to improve their body type, and crosses were also made with the Russian Blue and the Burmese. The crossbreed look gained recognition in the show ring, but unhappy American Shorthair breeders successfully produced a new breed standard that would disqualify American Shorthairs that showed signs of crossbreeding. One American Shorthair breeder who saw the potential of the Persian/American Shorthair cross proposed and eventually got the Cat Fanciers' Association judge and American Shorthair breeder Jane Martinke to recognize them as a new breed in 1966, under the name Exotic Shorthair. In 1987, the Cat Fanciers' Association closed the Exotic to shorthair outcrosses, leaving Persian as the only allowable outcross breed.\n\nBecause of the regular use of Persian as outcrosses, some Exotics may carry a copy of the recessive longhair gene. When two such cats mate, there is a 1 in 4 chance of each offspring being longhaired. Longhaired Exotics are not considered Persians by the Cat Fanciers' Association, although The International Cat Association accepts them as Persians. Other associations like the American Cat Fanciers Association register them as a separate Exotic Longhair breed.\n\nThe Exotic Shorthair meets every standard for the Persian breed, except for the coat.\n\nHead:\nOval, massive. Very broad skull. Rounded forehead. Round, full cheeks. Short, broad, round muzzle. Short, broad nose with pronounced stop. Strong chin. Broad, powerful jaws.\n\nEars:\nSmall, rounded at the tip, not too open at the base. Widely spaced and well-furnished with hair on the inside.\n\nEyes:\nLarge and round. Pure, deep color corresponding to that of the coat (gold to copper in most varieties; green in the chinchilla and the golden; blue in the white and the colorpoint).\n\nNeck:\nShort and thick.\n\nBody:\nMedium-sized, cobby, low to the ground. Broad chest. Massive shoulders. Large-boned with powerful muscles. Weight: 3.5 – 6 kilograms.\n\nPaw:\nShort, straight and large. Round, large paws. Tufts of hair between the toes.\n\nTail:\nShort, thick, carried low. Rounded tip.\n\nCoat:\nShorthaired but slightly longer than other shorthaired breeds. Dense, fluffy, erect hair. All Persian colors are recognized.\n\nExotic Shorthairs have a gentle and calm personality reminiscent of the Persian, but are generally livelier than their longhaired ancestors. Curious and playful, they are friendly to other cats and dogs, but they don't like being left alone and need the presence of their owner. They tend to show more affection and loyalty than most breeds and make excellent lap cats. Their calm, steady nature makes them ideal apartment cats for city dwellers. Nonetheless, Exotics retain some of the energetic spark of the American Shorthair, and they are often capable mouse hunters.\n\nUnlike the high-maintenance Persian, the Exotic is able to keep its own fur tidy with little human assistance, though weekly brushing and combing is recommended to remove loose hair and reduce shedding and hairballs.\n\nAs with other flat-faced animals, the Exotic's tear ducts are prone to overflowing due to the nasolacrimal duct, which can dampen and stain the face. This can be relieved by periodically wiping the cat's face with a cloth moistened with water or one of the commercial preparations made expressly for the purpose.\n\nThis breed ages slowly, as it does not reach maturity until around two years of age and enters puberty fairly late. When two Exotic Shorthairs are crossed, they may produce long-haired kittens called \"Exotic Longhairs\" by the Cat Fanciers' Association. Externally, they look like Persians.\n\nThe Exotic Shorthair is a brachycephalous breed, meaning that its problems result from having the nose and eyes in close proximity to each other, giving the appearance of a pushed-in face. As well as issues with the tear ducts, sinus problems can also occur. Due to the shortened jaw, there is a chance of tooth misalignment or tooth crowding.\n\n\nThe Exotic has steadily gained popularity among cat fanciers with the help of the devoted advocates of the breed who saw the value in a Persian and Shorthair crossbreed. \n\n"}
{"id": "11544788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11544788", "title": "Furylfuramide", "text": "Furylfuramide\n\nFurylfuramide (also known as AF-2) is a synthetic nitrofuran derivative which was widely used as a food preservative in Japan since at least 1965, but withdrawn from the market in 1974 when it was observed to be mutagenic to bacteria \"in vitro\" and thus suspected of carcinogenicity. This was confirmed later when animal testing found it to cause benign and malignant tumors in the mammary glands, stomachs, esophagi, and lungs of rodents of both sexes, although insufficient evidence exists in human exposure.\n\nThis successful use of bacterial mutagenicity as a screen for carcinogenicity confirmed the use of this methodology as a rapid and efficient test, in comparison to animal testing alone, and led to its further development. The availability of such simpler tests in turn gave rise to greater government oversight and testing of compounds to which the public would be exposed.\n"}
{"id": "26122757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26122757", "title": "Grant Study", "text": "Grant Study\n\nThe Grant Study is part of the Study of Adult Development at Harvard Medical School. It is a 75-year longitudinal study of 268 physically- and mentally-healthy Harvard college sophomores from the classes of 1939–1944. It has run in tandem with a study called \"The Glueck Study,\" which included a second cohort of 456 disadvantaged nondelinquent inner-city youths who grew up in Boston neighborhoods between 1940 and 1945. The subjects were all male and of American nationality. The men continue to be studied to this day. The men were evaluated at least every two years by questionnaires, information from their physicians, and in many cases by personal interviews. Information was gathered about their mental and physical health, career enjoyment, retirement experience and marital quality. The goal of the study was to identify predictors of healthy aging.\n\nThe study, its methodology and results are described in three books by a principal investigator in the study, George Vaillant. The first book describes the study up to a time when the men were 47 years of age, and the second book to when the inner-city men were 70 years old and the Harvard group were eighty. In 2012, Vaillant and Harvard University Press published \"Triumphs of Experience\", sharing more findings from the Grant Study.\n\nThe study is part of The Study of Adult Development, which is now under the direction of Dr. Robert J. Waldinger at Massachusetts General Hospital. The study included four members who ran for the U.S. Senate. One served in a presidential Cabinet, and one was President John F. Kennedy.\n\nThe study is unique partly because of the long time span of the cohort, and also partly because of the high social status of some of the study participants.\n\nGeorge Vaillant, who directed the study for more than three decades, has published a summation of the key insights the study has yielded:\n\nVaillant's main conclusion is that \"warmth of relationships throughout life has the greatest positive impact on 'life satisfaction'\". Put differently, Vaillant says the study shows: \"Happiness is love. Full stop.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8837124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837124", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Myanmar", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Myanmar\n\nHuman immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune deficiency syndrome in Burma (or Myanmar), recognised as a disease of concern by the Ministry of Health and is a major social and health issue in the country. In 2005, the estimated adult HIV prevalence rate in Burma was 1.3% (200,000 - 570,000 people), according to UNAIDS, and early indicators show that the epidemic may be waning in the country, although the epidemic continues to expand in parts of the country. Four different strains of HIV are believed to have originated from Burma, along heroin trafficking routes in northern, eastern and western Burma.\n\nIntravenous drug users (43%), along with miners (who often become infected through drug use) and sex workers (32%), are along the most likely to be infected with HIV. At least half of the 300,000 to 500,000 drug users (according to conservative estimates) in Burma are intravenous drug users, and Burma (Shan State and Kachin State) is a major regional supplier of heroin (with a major domestic shift from opium consumption to heroin consumption occurring in the late 1980s) and methamphetamines. The most common form of heroin is a highly refined injectable product colloquially known as \"Number 4.\"\n\nThe national government, in 2005, spent US$137,120 (K150,831,600) on HIV, while international donors (the governments of Norway, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, and Sweden) donated US$27,711,813 towards HIV programmes in Burma. Burma (ranked 51 out of 166 countries) has one of Asia's highest adult HIV prevalence rates, following Cambodia and Thailand. An estimated 20,000 (range of 11,000 to 35,000) die from HIV/AIDS annually.\n\nIn geographic terms, the lowest rates of HIV were in the West (Rakhine and Chin State), while intermediate rates were in the central region (Ayeyarwady, Mandalay, Magway, Sagaing, Yangon and Bago Regions), and the highest infection rates were in the North (Kachin State), East (Shan and Kayin State), and South (Mon State, Tanintharyi Region).\n\nThe Ministry of Health began surveying for HIV/AIDS in Burma in 1985. The first HIV case in Burma was reported in 1988, and the first AIDS patient in Burma was reported in 1991. Surveillance for HIV began the following year, and a prevention of mother-to-child transmission programme subsequently began in 2000. In 2005, antiretroviral therapy was introduced to the public sector, although only 3% of HIV/AIDS patients currently receive such treatment. Currently, AIDS is one of the priority diseases in the National Health Plan. On 18 August 2005, The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria terminated its US$98,400,000 grant (US$19,200,000 towards HIV/AIDS) in Burma after the national government imposed restrictions on travel of its staff, which contradicted earlier written agreements.\n\nAccording to the report named \"Preventable Fate\", published by Doctors without Borders (also known as Médecins Sans Frontières, 25,000 Burmese AIDS patients died in 2007, deaths that could largely have been prevented by antiretroviral therapy drugs and proper treatment. There was simply not enough money coming in from the government or from outside donors, and people are too poor to afford the treatment themselves. Médecins Sans Frontières had to restrict the number of new cases it could treat in Burma in 2008.\n\nPushed to its limit by the lack of treatment on offer by other care providers, Médecins Sans Frontières has recently been forced to make the painful decision to drastically reduce the number of new patients it can treat.\n\nBy 2008 Médecins Sans Frontières had become the major health provider of antiretroviral therapy and treatment in Burma, not the government or any public or private medical institution. It gave antiretroviral therapy, essential for surviving AIDS, to about 11,000 people, while over 70,000 people need the treatment. However, less than 20% of HIV/AIDS patients receive the treatment necessary.\n\nBurma's government spends the least percentage of its GDP on health care of any country in the world, and international donor organisations give less to Burma, per capita, than any other country except India. Unsafe medical practices, like the reuse of unsterilised equipment, as well as insufficient blood screening, has also been a source of infection. Also, the relative lack of accessible health care in conflict areas along the Burmese border make it difficult for AIDS patients to seek medical help. Interruptions in supply and delivery of ART lead to drug resistance and could lead to new strains of HIV.\n\nThe criminal nature of sex work in Burma, as it is prohibited by the Suppression of Prostitution Act in 1949, also contributes to the ineffectiveness of reaching out to sex workers in Burma with regard to HIV/AIDS awareness and condom usage. In Yangon, there are over 100 brothels and up to 10,000 sex workers, with between 70 and 90% having a history of sexually transmitted infections and less than 25% having been tested for HIV. An anecdotal study found that nearly half of sex workers in Yangon have HIV/AIDS.\n\nHIV Information for Myanmar [him] https://web.archive.org/web/20111011064958/http://him.civiblog.org/\n\n"}
{"id": "47075507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47075507", "title": "HealthRoster", "text": "HealthRoster\n\nHealthRoster is Employee scheduling software for e-rostering, used in the National Health Service produced by Allocate Software.\n\nIt provides a computerised method for efficiently managing when staff are required to work and to ensure wards and departments have the right staff in the right place at the right time. It is used by over 80% of electronically rostered NHS trusts to plan and roster their staff. It permits bank nurses to check shifts that are available on their phones or computers at home.\n\nHertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust uses the software, which was installed in October 2007, to manage staffing of 160 different areas of nursing. The manager says it is much more efficient than their previous paper-based system, especially as it could keep a record of requests.\n\nIt is used in University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, where it was used by Alison Leary in her study of safe nurse staffing. Warrington & Halton Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust claims it has permitted them to reduce the use of bank and agency staff.\n\nDerbyshire Community Health Services NHS Foundation Trust has established a Responsive Workforce Model using HealthRoster Software and SafeCare, which they say has been crucial in permitting them to reduce expenditure on agency staff, ensured quality and freed up nurses for hands-on care. Matrons and ward managers can now organise their rotas more efficiently which enables them to be fairer with staff and frees them up to spend more time on direct patient care.\n\n"}
{"id": "49456705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49456705", "title": "Healthy Lifestyles for High School Students", "text": "Healthy Lifestyles for High School Students\n\nHealth and fitness are dominating western culture, and while adults are able to communicate with or hire trained professionals to assist in their journeys to overall health, many teenagers and students do not have access to the resources necessary to answer any questions they may have, or point them in the right direction when starting on their road to fitness. This Wikipedia page aims to teach all those who read it how to create and maintain a healthy lifestyle, regardless of your financial status, schedule, or location.\n\nHighlights:\n\nMany people believe that a diet is simply a meal-plan someone starts when they want to lose weight. While this is true, your diet is not a scheduled meal-plan that you start and finish, nor is it something that lasts from the start of your journey to health until you achieve your goal. Your diet is literally everything you eat and drink in a day, regardless of if you are working toward a goal number on the scale or just living your life day by day. According to the dictionary, a healthy diet is \"a diet which is heavily weighted towards ‘good foods’ while minimizing ‘bad foods.’\" A healthy diet does not simply depend on the food pyramid, or any variation of targeted amountsing of food-groups. Though it is important to eat a certain amount of fruit and vegetables each day, meeting these suggested servings is not the same thing as creating a diet that will help you live the best life you can.\n\nBefore beginning your road to overall health, it is extremely important to set aside specific goals you wish to achieve through changing your lifestyle. Evaluate why you want to life a healthy lifestyle, find motivation for yourself to continue when it might seem difficult or easier to just give up. Make it fun, creative, and enticing. After all, if it seems like a chore to do it, you won't want to do it.\n\nWhen creating your #GOALS, don't go overboard. Your list should contain 5–7 specific things you want to see change in your life, and should not include anything extreme, like losing more than 20 pounds.* Don't make all your goals number-oriented either. You don't have to focus on your weight or pant size if that is not what you are aiming to change. Your goals are yours, make them personal. They don't need to revolve around fitness if that's not what you're looking to gain from your new lifestyle. Health is more than physical, and your goals should include some emotional or mental targets as well.\n\nExample goals include:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>If you want to lose more than 20 pounds, consult your doctor first. Make sure your goal weight is healthy, reasonable, and necessary for your overall health. In general, losing more than 10 pounds could make your life dramatically different, and put you at a BMI that is lower than average.\n\nFirst things first, you should eliminate huge sources of trans fats, unnatural sugars, and processed foods. However, the amount you cut down on depends on how much you previously consumed daily and how unnatural those foods were. A general rule to live by: If you can't pronounce most of the ingredients listed on the package, it probably isn't natural enough to be in your body. That said, checking the ingredients list is a very important step in making the transition away from processed foods. Avoid artificial flavors and colors, as some are made from insects or could cause cancer. How many ingredients are listed for the product? Chances are the more you read, the less healthy it will be. Our bodies are meant to consume certain foods, and if the ingredients list runs long, you should find an alternative food item that either has simpler and fewer ingredients, or try to make the item on your own. There shouldn't be more than ten ingredients for a granola bar, for instance, because it really only needs five (granola, oats, some sort of nut, some sort of dried berry, and maybe maple syrup or honey as a glue for the previous ingredients).\n\nSodium is also something to watch out for. Consuming too much actually reverses the effects of eliminating all these \"bad foods.\" Try using less salt when cooking, don't add soy sauce to your rice, put the bag of chips down. If you have to add more than a pinch of salt when preparing the dish, add something flavorful instead (peppers, onions, garlic, spices, etc.).\n\nDo not be afraid of carbs, they are vital to your metabolism. The majority of energy produced and used by our bodies comes from carbohydrates. Just be smart in the kinds you consume, and don't fill up on carbs if you plan on lounging around all day. The main point of consuming such energy-providing foods is to fuel you through a day full of activity. The same can be said for protein. It is vital, but should be utilized when you perform moderate to heavy exercise. \"You must consume some sort of carbohydrate and protein every day\", but dial it back when you know you'll be sitting in class or doing homework at your desk for the majority of the day.\n"}
{"id": "46873205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46873205", "title": "Immune cycle", "text": "Immune cycle\n\nThe immune cycle is a natural homeostatic oscillation of the immune system when chronic inflammation is occurring. Similar to the menstrual cycle, the exact wavelength and waveform of each particular individual patient is different. That is, different people have different immune cycles although each cycle is typically repeated every seven days.\n\nC-reactive protein levels in the blood need to be measured every few days in order to have enough time points to show a repeating fluctuation (a wave-like cycle). This is caused by the synchronous division of T cells over time, with T-effector cells boosting immune activity followed by T-regulatory cells suppressing the immune response. \n\nAlthough the exact reason for the immune cycle is not yet clear, it appears to be a result of repeating and alternating stimulation and inhibition of the immune response, which has been demonstrated to exist in cancer patients. Many cycles occur in the body - like temperature regulation and hormone levels - and the exact cause for these cycles is also unknown, but it is thought to involve the hypothalamus.\n\nThe process used to identify this cycle is called 'immune cycle mapping', while the process that uses this cycle in treatment is called 'immune synchronisation'. It is important to note that the immune cycle and immune synchronisation still \"require a lot more testing\" before treatment methods can become viable because the \"research is still in its early stages\".\n\nThe idea of an immune cycle has existed for well over a hundred years. In 1891, Dr William Coley noticed that some of his patients responded better to treatment than other patients, even with complete responses. Almost a century later, in 1975, physicist George Irving Bell developed a mathematical equation to predict a hypothetical immune cycle. Dr Robert North, writing in the 1980s, demonstrated that chemotherapy encouraged the growth of tumors in mice, whose immune systems are very similar to humans. Unfortunately, these pioneers of the immune cycle were unable to establish its existence, particularly since the necessary technology had not yet come into existence.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Associate Professor Brendon Coventry noticed that some of his patients responded better to a Melanoma vaccine than other patients despite receiving identical treatment. When local cancer tumours where injected with the vaccine, cancers that had not been injected began to shrink as well, thus indicating an immunogenic relationship. These observations led him to speculate that the immune system operates in a cyclical manner, with peaks and troughs. Operating on this theory, Coventry was able to increase complete response rates to treatment of advanced melanoma from 7% to 17% and without noticeable negative side effects to chemotherapy and radiotherapy.\n\nIn 2004, Associate Professor Manfred W. Beilharz et al. from the University of Western Australia began reporting on similar patterns in the treatment of HIV/AIDS infected mice. In 2005, Mr. Martin Ashdown, a minor contributor to this 2004 paper, claimed to have discovered this cycle in 2002, although this is inconsistent with the historical record.\n\nThe 2009 publication of \"CRP identifies homeostatic immune oscillations in cancer patients: a potential treatment targeting tool?\" in the Journal of Translational Medicine, of which Coventry was lead author, signalled for the first time that the immune cycle existed in some form. Speaking on ABC radio in 2010, Coventry explained the reasoning behind how the cycle was discovered by numerous practitioners and researchers:\n\nIn 2010, Professor Michael Quinn from the Royal Melbourne Hospital announced that trials would be conducted on women suffering from ovarian cancer. Dr Roxana S. Dronca et al. from the Mayo Clinic found that the immune cycle is also evident in fluctuations beyond C-reactive protein, as it can be seen in \"infradian immune biorhythms of both immune cell subpopulations and cytokines.\" Speaking to the Daily Express newspaper in the UK, Quinn said \nHowever, in 2014, Dr Mutsa Madondo et al. (in a team that included Professor Quinn) were unable to replicate the results of the 2009 Coventry et al. paper. They discovered that \"[t]he statistical analysis used showed no evidence of periodic oscillation\". In 2015, Coventry - in a team that included Professor Maciej Henneberg - argued that cancer had become highly developed over time and could counter mainstream cancer treatments by manipulating the immune cycle:\nIn late 2016, one of the patent holders, Biotempus Limited - whose Chief Scientific Officer, Mr. Martin Ashdown, was involved in the 2009 paper - went into administration and liquidation. The other patent holder, the Mayo Clinic in the US, is presently conducting a clinical trial into immune synchronisation.\n\nThe use of the immune cycle in treatment through immune synchronisation remains in the very early stages of research, as demonstrated above. According to a 2012 article in Cancer Management and Research, a well timed treatment and the use of agent Interleukin 2 could force the immune system into overdrive, expanding and maximising the period of T-effector cell activity. According to Coventry, \"[t]he immune system works in waves that seems to be switching on and off constantly. And now what we're trying to do is see whether we can identify periods or phases in that cycle where we could target [Melanoma vaccine treatments] more effectively...\"\n\nHowever, the research can also apply to Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy more generally because it is applicable to the treatment of cancers that are, or are likely to be, immunogenic. What this shows is that a patient's treatment outcome may be largely determined by when treatment is administered in relation to their immune cycle, making treatment more a game of chance than a game with fixed rules. Crucially, the ability to administer treatment at the most effective time in a patient's immune cycle means that significantly smaller dosages of chemotherapy can be used, which in turn means far fewer negative side effects to treatment or, possibly, no significant side effects.\n\nThe Australian Melanoma Research Foundation has undertaken many initiatives to promote this research and the potential benefits it could have on cancer patients, as well as advertising clinical trials. Australian Senator Nick Xenophon has helped raise public awareness about this research, a fact that has been noted in the acknowledgements of numerous journal articles.\n\nNumerous submissions and presentations on these findings were made to committees of the Parliament of Australia. In a 2014 submission to the Standing Committee on Health into Skin Cancer in Australia, the Australian Melanoma Research Foundation stated that without the application of the new knowledge on the immune cycle cancer treatment was a \"mathematically random\" process. It was also revealed that treatment on mice with the new knowledge resulted in a \"complete eradication of established tumours in 60% of mice\". Their 2015 submission to the \"Senate Standing Committee on Community Affairs Inquiry into the Availability of New, Innovative and Specialist Cancer Drugs in Australia\" states that the 5 year survival rate of patients with advanced cancer is consistent with statistical probability that a patients treatment will be administered at exactly the right place in their immune cycle.\n\nIn 2013, Dr Svetomir Markovic of the Mayo Clinic gave a public lecture in which he described the immune cycle and the potential developments to medicine it provides.\n\n"}
{"id": "28483981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28483981", "title": "International FOP Association", "text": "International FOP Association\n\nThe International Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva Association (IFOPA) is a US-based 501(c)(3) non-profit organization supporting medical research, education and communication for those afflicted by the rare genetic condition Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP). IFOPA's mission is to fund research to find a cure for FOP while supporting, connecting, and advocating for individuals with FOP and their families, and raising awareness worldwide. IFOPA is governed by a volunteer board of directors which may range in number from 9 to 15, at least one of whom must have FOP. The association's location is 1520 Clay St., Suite H2, North Kansas City, MO, 64116, part of the Kansas City, Missouri metropolitan area.\n\nIFOPA was founded in 1988 by Jeannie L. Peeper. Diagnosed with FOP in 1962 at age four, Peeper graduated from college in 1985 with a bachelor of arts degree in social work. Michael Zasloff, then at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), was studying FOP and put Peeper in contact with all FOP patients known to the NIH, eighteen in total, to whom Peeper mailed a questionnaire. Eleven responded. In early 1988, Peeper started a newsletter called \"FOP Connection\" in collaboration with Nancy Sando, one of the respondents. In June of that year, Peeper founded the IFOPA to facilitate fund raising for FOP research and generally create awareness of the disease. With an initial association membership of eleven, Peeper became the inaugural president and Sando was appointed vice president. In 1989, Peeper collaborated with the University of Pennsylvania to support establishment of the FOP Collaborative Research Project, and in 1992, the Center for Research in FOP and Related Disorders, efforts spearheaded by Drs. Frederick S. Kaplan, Michael Zasloff, and Eileen M. Shore.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, IFOPA organized two international symposiums on FOP and several FOP family meetings. In the first decade of the 2000s, two more international symposiums were hosted by IFOPA, and other FOP scientific and family meetings were held in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Sweden, and the UK. In April 2006, the Center for Research in FOP discovered the FOP gene. By 2014, the organization had over 500 members from 57 countries and had partnered with FOP organizations and communities in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, The Netherlands, People's Republic of China, Poland, Russia, Serbia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2010, IFOPA implemented the first annual Jeannie L Peeper Awards to recognize philanthropy, community involvement, international leadership and youth leadership in support of the FOP cause. Also in 2010, the Central Florida Chapter of the Association of Fund Raising Professionals named Peeper as winner of the 2010 Lifetime Achievement Award for her work in founding and establishing the IFOPA. A gathering of FOP families, supporters, researchers, and pharmaceutical industry representatives was held in Orlando in late 2013 on the 25th anniversary of the Association.\n\nIn early 2014, IFOPA appointed its first Global Research Development Director to partner with research groups internationally in the development of therapeutic approaches for the treatment of FOP.\n\nIn July 2014, a Phase II clinical trial investigating palovarotene for the treatment of FOP began. Palovarotene is a drug shown to prevent heterotopic bone formation in animal models of FOP. In 2017, a Phase II clinical trial of the activin antibody REGN2477 began. A third clinical trial is underway at Kyoto University.\n\nIFOPA hosted FOP drug development forums in 2014 and 2016 in Boston, Massachusetts, and in Sardinia Italy in 2017. The forums discussed questions and challenges of developing a safe transformative therapy for FOP. The 2016 Drug Development Forum attracted 169 attendees from around the world including 38 universities, 13 pharmaceutical companies and a number of government experts, investment firms, and FOP patient and parent advocates.\n\nIn early 2017, IFOPA closed its Orlando office and moved administrative operations to North Kansas City, Missouri. A reorganization plan entailed creation of several new positions as follows: Director of Research Development and Partnerships, Family Services Director, and Administrative Coordinator. Two additional key functions, FOP Connection Registry Study Manager and Fundraising Events Manager, were contracted to outside consultants.\n\nHistorically, IFOPA has allocated over 80% of its annual budget to medical research and programs, donating in the range of $350,000 to $650,000 annually to the FOP Laboratory. IFOPA is a GuideStar Gold Participant by virtue of the public information IFOPA provides beyond that available from the IRS. General overhead, defined as a combination of fund raising and management expenses, has for the past decade averaged below the Association of Fundraising Professionals statement that the average American believes 23 cents on the dollar being spent on such costs is a reasonable figure. The association's financial statements and 990s are posted on the IFOPA website.\n\nIFOPA fund raising results principally from family-organized activities rather than large nationwide events. In addition to the association's own annual appeal, several grants, and traditional family/friends letter drives, the range of family fund raisers includes golf tournaments, barbecues, bingos, auctions, comedy shows, rock concerts, holiday card sales, raffles, suppers, athletic events, and a variety of other social events and receptions. Some of the more unusual fund raisers include an annual Burns Supper in Aberdeen Scotland, an ice fishing contest, and the auctioning of a quilt decorated with a double helical border symbolizing both the DNA double helix and the quest to find a cure. In 2010, the association established the Jeannie Peeper Heritage Society, a fund raising program that targets major donors and estate giving.\n\nIFOPA's medical and scientific advisors are Frederick S. Kaplan, Eileen M. Shore, and Michael Zasloff. The foregoing advise the association on issues such as family support and counseling, dissemination of medical documents and treatment guidelines, medical document translation, physician awareness strategies, research funding requests and initiatives, and other matters for which their expertise is required.\n\nKaplan is the Isaac and Rose Nassau Professor of Orthopaedic Molecular Medicine and Chief of the Division of Orthopaedic Molecular Medicine at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Kaplan co-directs the Center for Research in FOP and Related Disorders and is recognized as the world's leading expert on genetic disorders of heterotopic ossification and skeletal metamorphosis. In 1997, Kaplan was awarded the first endowed chair in the USA for orthopaedic molecular medicine. In 2006, Newsweek named Kaplan as one of \"15 people who make America great\". In 2009, Kaplan was elected to the Institute of Medicine, an organization established by the United States National Academy of Sciences to honor professional achievement in the health sciences.\n\nShore is the Cali and Weldon Research Professor in FOP, and Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery and Genetics in the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Co-Director of the Center for Research in FOP and Related Disorders, and director of the FOP Molecular Biology Laboratory. She is a past-president of the Advances in Mineral Metabolism (AIMM) Board of Directors and served on the American Society of Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR) Council. Shore was awarded a PhD from the University of Pennsylvania (Cell and Molecular Biology) followed by post-doctoral training in cell biology at the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. Shore's collaboration with Kaplan led to the discovery of the mutated genes in both FOP and POH Progressive osseous heteroplasia.\nMichael Zasloff is Scientific Director, MedStar-Georgetown Transplant Institute, Georgetown University School of Medicine. In the early 1980s, during his tenure at the National Institutes of Health as Chief of the Human Genetics Branch, he began clinical and basic studies of FOP and helped found the IFOPA with Jeannie Peeper. In 1989, as the Upham Professor of Pediatrics and Genetics at the University of Pennsylvania and Chief of the Division of Human Genetics of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, he began his collaboration with Fred Kaplan to find both the cause and cure of FOP.\n\nAs a result of the rareness of FOP, the condition is little known even among medical clinicians. Close to 90% of FOP patients worldwide are misdiagnosed. In such circumstances, the association directly supports research, makes information about FOP including symptoms and treatment guidelines available to both physicians and families, and supports afflicted families with mentoring, family meetings and an information network. Below are IFOPA's programs of research, education, family support, and advocacy. Additional information about these programs, including downloadable reports, articles and other materials, may be obtained from the IFOPA website.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54117828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54117828", "title": "International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics", "text": "International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics\n\nThe International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO) is a non-governmental organization of people working in or interested in prosthetics, orthotics, mobility and assistive devices technology.\n\nIt was founded in 1970 in Copenhagen, Denmark and it currently has about 3,500 members in over 100 countries.\n\nThe ISPO, in partnership with the World Health Organization (WHO) has developed the WHO Standards for Prosthetics and Orthotics that were launched in May 2017 at the 16th World Congress of the International Society of Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO) in Cape Town, South Africa.\n\nThe ISPO is also responsible for Prosthetics and Orthotics International, an academic journal that quarterly publishes papers related to Prothetics and Orthotics.\n"}
{"id": "6494001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6494001", "title": "International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology", "text": "International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology\n\nThe International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology (IUPHAR) is a voluntary, non-profit association representing the interests of scientists in pharmacology-related fields to facilitate \"Better Medicines through Global Education and Research\" around the world.\n\nEstablished in 1959 as a section of the International Union of Physiological Sciences, IUPHAR became an independent organization in 1966 and is a member of the International Council for Science (ICSU). The first World Congress of Pharmacology was held in Stockholm, Sweden in 1961 and subsequently held every three years. After 1990 the World Congresses were moved to a four-year interval. These meetings present the latest pharmacological research, technology, and methodology, and provide a forum for international collaboration and exchange of ideas. A General Assembly, consisting of delegates from all the member societies, is convened during the congresses so member societies have an opportunity to elect the Executive Committee and vote on matters concerning the governance and activities of the union.\n\nIUPHAR members are regional, national and special-interest societies around the world. The various sections and committees are composed of individuals from academia, pharmaceutical companies, and government organizations. IUPHAR resources are available to all members of the pharmacology-related societies that adhere to IUPHAR.\n\nIUPHAR is divided in sectional topics. The Division of Clinical Pharmacology, including 3 subcommittees of Developing Countries, Geriatrics, and Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacovigilance, focuses on the needs and research tools for clinicians. The Committee on Receptor Nomenclature and Drug Classification (NC-IUPHAR) provides a uniform guideline for naming and classifying results from the Human Genome Project, naming proteins derived from new sequences as functional receptors and ion channels. Sections specializing in various areas of pharmacology have been established, including Drug Metabolism and Drug Transport, Education, Gastrointestinal Pharmacology, Immunopharmacology, Pharmacology of Natural products, Neuropsychopharmacology, Pediatrics Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics. Volunteers participate in the various sections and division according to their interests and training.\n\nA primary purpose of IUPHAR is providing global free access to a major, on-line repository of characterization data for receptors, ion channels, enzyme target classes and drugs through the Committee on Receptor Nomenclature and Drug Classification (NC-IUPHAR), established in 1987. The Guide to Pharmacology established in 2012 superseded the earlier IUPHAR-DB. This is a joint endeavor with the British Pharmacological Society, and has been supported by the Wellcome Trust. It includes all the G protein-coupled receptors, voltage-gated ion channels, 7TM receptors, nuclear receptors, ligand-gated ion channels and Kinases which are known to be in the human genome. Where relevant, data on the rat and mouse homologues are presented to assist researchers and clinicians in developing and/or enhancing therapeutics for eventual medication in humans.\n\nNC-IUPHAR also promulgates standards of name nomenclature for research in pharmacology and the related disciplines.\n\nIn general, IUPHAR offers individual pharmacologists free curriculum expertise, career development and job listings (the non-profit PharmacoCareers.org), research resources, and collaboration opportunities. IUPHAR offers its member societies venues for participating in world-wide initiatives, publicizing member meetings and activities, nominating individuals for Young Investigator awards, and naming delegates to the quadrennial General Assemblies. A biannual newsletter entitled \"Pharmacology International\" is published.\n\nAs a non-government organization in official relations with the World Health Organization (WHO), IUPHAR representatives help shape international policy on essential medicines, appropriate dose therapeutics for children, and clinical pharmacology core competencies among its many WHO-related activities.\n\nThe Division of Clinical Pharmacology compiled and released the Research in Humans Compendium, a free resource to provide the scientific community interested in human research with information on the design of research protocols to assess the effectiveness of a drug in a series of pathological conditions.\n\nIUPHAR is involved in the development of pharmacology in developing countries. In conjunction with ICSU the Pharmacology for Africa (Phar\"f\"A) initiative was undertaken in 2006 to promote and organize pharmacology on the African continent. The South African Society of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology is building a database and network of institutions and pharmacologists to create an infrastructure for training and funding pharmacologists. The long-term goal is for the African continent to attain the necessary pharmacological knowledge and resources to address disease-related issues affecting the population. As part of this mission, with the support of ICSU and the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, the IUPHAR Education Section organized a series of workshops, mostly in Africa, to train young investigators on ethical laboratory practices, including the three Rs of ethical use of animals.\n\nIUPHAR Pharmacology Education Project is a website developed by IUPHAR, with support from the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics (ASPET), as a learning resource to support education and training in the pharmacological sciences. The materials are intended for use by students of pharmacology, clinical pharmacologists, and others interested in the pharmacological sciences. The stated aim is to produce a simple, attractive, easily searchable resource that will support students and teachers of the biomedical sciences, medicine, nursing and pharmacy. It is also intended as an introduction to some of the new data in the IUPHAR/BPS Guide to PHARMACOLOGY, particularly for those less familiar with such material.\n\nThe early years of the 21st century will be focused on integrating basic and clinical research to implement translational medicine techniques more quickly. The 9th World Conference on Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics in Québec City, Canada was the last IUPHAR meeting to present clinical pharmacology separately. The World Congress of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology in Copenhagen, Denmark on July 17–23, 2010 was the first integrated meeting. The merging of these different approaches to the same discipline is to accelerate the introduction of improved therapeutics for humans.\n\nEducational components will be emphasized for both existing pharmacology programs as well as increasing and enhancing pharmacology training in developing countries. This topic was a central theme of the 17th World Congress of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology (WCP2014) held July 13–18, 2014 in Cape Town, South Africa. The 18th World Congress of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology (WCP2018) being held in Kyoto, Japan on July 1–6, 2018 will focus on drug development and therapeutics using new methodologies such as genome sequencing, stem cell biology, nanotechnology and systems biology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34077780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34077780", "title": "Job-exposure matrix", "text": "Job-exposure matrix\n\nA job-exposure matrix (JEM) is a tool used to assess exposure to potential health hazards in occupational epidemiological studies.\n\nEssentially, a JEM comprises a list of levels of exposure to a variety of harmful (or potentially harmful) agents for selected occupational titles. In large population-based epidemiological studies, JEMs may be used as a quick and systematic means of converting coded occupational data (job titles) into a matrix of possible exposures, eliminating the need to assess each individual's exposure in detail.\n\nAssessing exposure by title is less costly than looking at individual cases. JEMs may also reduce differential information bias that might occur when evaluating exposure for individuals from medical records in which their jobs are apparent.\n\nVariability of exposure within occupational classes in different workplaces, countries, or throughout time is commonly not taken into account, which can result in nondifferential exposure misclassification.\n"}
{"id": "31073251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31073251", "title": "List of UN numbers 3401 to 3500", "text": "List of UN numbers 3401 to 3500\n\nThe UN numbers from UN3401 to UN3500 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "35288350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35288350", "title": "List of hospitals in South Sudan", "text": "List of hospitals in South Sudan\n\nThe following is a list of currently operating hospitals in South Sudan.\n"}
{"id": "17644328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17644328", "title": "List of parasites of humans", "text": "List of parasites of humans\n\nHelminth organisms (also called helminths or intestinal worms) include:\n"}
{"id": "143848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143848", "title": "List of suicides", "text": "List of suicides\n\nThe following are lists of notable people who died by suicide. Suicides effected under duress are included. Deaths by accident or misadventure are excluded. People who might or might not have died by their own hand, or whose intention to die is in dispute, but who are widely believed to have deliberately killed themselves, may be listed under \"possible suicides\".\n\nSee also List of suicides in the 21st century, List of political self-immolations and List of suicides which have been attributed to bullying.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23262383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23262383", "title": "List of tallest hospitals", "text": "List of tallest hospitals\n\nThis is a list of tallest hospitals in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25889636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25889636", "title": "Lynch Syndrome International", "text": "Lynch Syndrome International\n\nLynch Syndrome International is a not for profit, tax exempt charity helping those with Lynch syndrome. It is recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3) not for profit charitable organization and contributions to the organization are tax deductible in accordance with state and federal laws. Lynch Syndrome International, with an all volunteer staff, is the first organization of its type dedicated to the hereditary disease Lynch syndrome. The organization provides support for survivors and previvors who are diagnosed with Lynch Syndrome and for those who care for them. The international headquarters for Lynch Syndrome International are located in Vacaville, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "34249212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34249212", "title": "Ministry of Health (South Sudan)", "text": "Ministry of Health (South Sudan)\n\nThe Ministry of Health is a ministry of the Government of South Sudan. The incumbent minister is Dr Riek Gai Kok\n"}
{"id": "27369104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27369104", "title": "Multidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research", "text": "Multidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research\n\nMultidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research is a report, originally published in 1999, by a Fetzer Institute / National Institute on Aging working group on the measurement of religion and spirituality. A revised version with a new preface was published in 2003. The book presents a series of 12 self-report questionnaire measures, each focused on a particular aspect of religiousness or spirituality, along with reviews of underlying theory and supporting research. The book's purpose is to provide validated measures of spiritual and religious factors in health research. The book includes the Brief Multidimensional Measure of Religiousness/Spirituality (BMMRS), a practical measure with selected items from the 12 previous chapters.\n\nThe book has been widely cited in health and behavioral science research, and several subsequent publications have been partially or entirely dedicated to evaluating and critiquing the measures.\n\nBoth editions contain an introduction, followed by 12 chapters, each on the measurement of a particular aspect (\"domain\") of religion or spirituality. Combining all these questions gives the Multidimensional Measure of Religiousness/Spirituality. (MMRS). Concluding pages of each edition select items for a briefer 38-item version of the questionnaire (BMMRS), along with data from a US national survey that incorporated many of its items.\n\nBackground and purpose. The Introduction states the book is responding to \"a growing body of literature... indicat<nowiki>[ing]</nowiki> that various dimensions of religiousness and spirituality may enhance subjective states of well-being... lower levels of depression and psychological distress... and reduce morbidity and mortality... elicit<nowiki>[ing]</nowiki> considerable attention from medical researchers in epidemiology, psychology, sociology, gerontology, and other fields\" (p. 1). However,\n\nHealth researchers who seek to include religious or spiritual domains in their studies typically confront various problems. Few health researchers have a scholarly background in religiousness/spirituality and most are not acquainted with the long history of attempts to conceptualize and measure multiple dimensions of religiousness... <nowiki>[and]</nowiki> we currently have no widely used and validated set of standard measures for key religious/spiritual domains to recommend to interested health researchers (pp. 1-2)\n\nThus, \"the NIA and the Fetzer Institute established a core working group to:\n\nPlausibility of health effects. The Introduction described a variety of \"potential mechanisms\" by which religiou/spirituality might affect health. These include \"behavioral mechanisms\" (e.g., less drug abuse), \"social mechanisms\" (e.g., community ties), \"psychological mechanisms\" (e.g., emotional support or religious coping), and physiological mechanisms\" (e.g., prayer or meditation that elicits a \"relaxation response\") (pp. 3–4).\n\nCultural orientation. The Introduction also noted that \"While many of the items have a strong Judeo-Christian focus... the group also proposed a number of items relevant to the growing proportion of Americans who engage in spiritual activities outside the content of churches and synagogues\" (p. 3).\n\nDomain-focused chapters. The titles of the 12 domain-focused chapters, each written by one of the committee members, are shown in the adjacent table. A sample question from each chapter's questionnaire measure is also shown in the table.\n\nBrief measure. The final chapter contains a \"short form\" (BMMRS) with 36 items mostly drawn from the longer measures that appear in the previous 12 chapters (see table). Two additional items elicit a respondent's overall self-ranking (e.g., \"To what extent to you consider yourself a spiritual person?\", with a similar question about being a \"religious person\"). This chapter is entitled:\n\nSurvey data. The appendix contains results from administering the BMMRS to a US nationally representative sample, through the General Social Survey, in 1998. For example, it was found that 24.4 percent of US adults reported engaging in private prayer \"more than once a day\", and 9.0 percent reported engaging in meditation \"more than once a day\" (p. 92). The appendix is entitled:\n\nBy 2010, the book had been cited more than 350 times in scientific publications. Critiques and evaluations of the MMRS or BMMRS have appeared in\nthe \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\",\n\"Research on Aging\",\nthe \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\",\nthe \"International Journal for the Psychology of Religion\",\n\"Journal of Religion and Health\",\n\"Research in the Social Scientific Study of Religion\", and elsewhere.\n\nIn the \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\", Harold G. Koenig wrote that\n\nThe Fetzer Institute’s Multidimensional Measure of Religiousness/Spirituality is rapidly becoming the standard measure of religiousness/spirituality in the spirituality and health field overall, given its comprehensive nature... There also exist national norms for the short version of this instrument (p. 352).\n\nHowever, he expressed concern that some items for some of the domains of the BMMRS might be \"contaminated\": \"Among its spirituality subscales are meaning, values, and forgiveness subscales <nowiki>[containing]</nowiki> items such as... 'Knowing that I am a part of something greater than myself gives meaning to my life'... <nowiki>[and]</nowiki> 'It is easy for me to admit that I am wrong,' ... these positive traits could very well be the outcome or the results of spirituality. However, should they be part of the definition itself?... completely secular persons and atheists may experience these things as frequently or more frequently than so called 'spiritual persons\" (p. 352). Others have empirically tested this issue for the BMMRSs Daily Spiritual Experiences Scale finding that it is composed of two factors - theism and civility — with many people who eschew religion and spirituality scoring highly on civility.\n\nIn \"Research on Aging\", Idler and other working group members reported results of in-depth analyses of data from administering the BMMRS in the 1998 General Social Survey. The various BMMRS questions \"had the expected relationships with other measures of <nowiki>[religious]</nowiki> concepts. Overall, the instrument has the appropriate characteristics of reliability and validity to be used in further research.\" (p. 356). Another analysis of the same data suggested that the BMMRS \"is useful for\nmultiethnic research,\" and that the daily spirituality and values/beliefs scales could benefit by being combined (p. 446).\n\nSeveral researchers evaluated how well the BMMRS appeared to work when given to different populations. One study concluded that \"most BMMRS measures are reliable and valid for use among adolescents\" (p. 439). Another found that the \"BMMRS is a viable multifactor measure of <nowiki>[religion/spirituality]</nowiki> for use with young adults\" when the \"wording on some items was slightly altered to be more inclusive of various religious traditions\" (pp. 106, 110). A third reported that in a sample of midwestern US college students, \"despite having a collection of items from 12 different domains, these items really constitute two major areas of interest: one relating to spiritual experiences and the other to religious involvements\" (p. 194). In a population of patients undergoing rehabilitation, it appears that \"the BMMRS assesses distinct positive and negative aspects of religiousness and spirituality that may be best conceptualized... as... (a) Spiritual Experiences... (b) Religious Practices... (c) Congregational Support; and (d) Forgiveness\" (p. 146). Findings from Southern US adults suggested that the MMRS appears best at measuring \"3 primary factors (Meaning, Spirituality, Religious Practices and Organized Religiousness) and 2 secondary factors (Guilt vs. God’s Grace, and Loving/Forgiving God)\" (p. 181).\n\nJohn Traphagan, in \"Research on Aging\", examined how the book can \"raise questions about the extent to which basic ideas associated with the study of Judeo-Christian religions are meaningful in contexts such as Japan\" and other Asian countries (p. 387). He argued that questions suggested for many of the 12 domains are irrelevant to understanding religiousness/spirituality in Japan. However, a few MMRS domains held promise. For example, with regard to religious coping, he stated that \"certain kinds of ritual performance in Japan can be understood in terms of coping mechanisms, and this is an area identified in the Fetzer report that holds promise for cross-cultural research (at least in relation to Japan)\" (p. 405).\n\nAccording to the book's 2003 preface, the Fetzer Institute continues to receive requests for the booklet, and at that time had distributed 2,000 print copies and 1200 internet downloads. The preface reports that \"the most popular subscales being used are the Religious/Spiritual Coping and the Daily Spiritual Experiences Scales (DSES). One fourth of respondents have used the booklet in either a course that they teach, in a seminar, or in a symposium.\" (p. ii)\n\nFetzer Institute published the original paperbound edition in 1999, and published a paperbound \"reprint\" in 2003 that contained a new preface. The 2003 edition is also available for downloading without charge from the Fetzer Institute website (see external links). The two editions are:\n\nOne of the scales, the DSES, has been translated into multiple foreign (non-English) languages: Mandarin Chinese, Korean, German, Greek, Vietnamese, French and Spanish (p. 716).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53610917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53610917", "title": "NHS mandate", "text": "NHS mandate\n\nThe Health and Social Care Act 2012 established NHS England and provides that the Secretary of State is to publish, annually, a document known as the NHS mandate which specifies the objectives which the Board should seek to achieve. National Health Service (Mandate Requirements) Regulations are published each year to give legal force to the mandate.\n\nThe mandate centred on uncontroversial ambitions: reducing rates of premature death, enhancing quality of life for people with long-term conditions, enhancing recovery.\n\nThere was a consultation process for the 2016 to 2017 mandate in the autumn of 2015. It was criticised as having little publicity.\n\nThe mandate for 2017-18 centres on the implementation of the Five Year Forward View. It requires NHS England to provide weekend and evening access to primary care for 40% of the population by the end of 2017-18 and sets goals to improve the performance of Accident and Emergency departments with the majority of trusts meeting the 95% target in March 2018. It promises to reduce bed-blocking to 3.5%, the equivalent of releasing more than 2000 extra beds a day. This is to be achieved by NHS trusts integrating social care services for elderly patients. \n\nIt includes proposals to improve the collection of data about incidence, prevalence, clinical activity and outcomes of musculoskeletal patients and services in England.\n\nChris Hopson, Chief executive of NHS Providers, representing NHS foundation trusts responded by saying \"Taken together with the other commitments set out in the document, the gap between demands on the health service and the resources available in the coming year remains unbridgeable. We maintain that just stabilising the deterioration in performance would be an achievement in itself.\"\n"}
{"id": "4931941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4931941", "title": "National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control", "text": "National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control\n\nThe National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is a federal agency under the Federal Ministry of Health that is responsible for regulating and controlling the manufacture, importation, exportation, advertisement, distribution, sale and use of food, drugs, cosmetics, medical devices, chemicals and packaged water in Nigeria.\n\nThe organization was formed to checkmate illicit and counterfeit products in Nigeria in 1993 under the country's health and safety law. \nAdulterated and counterfeit drugs are a problem in Nigeria. In one 1989 incident, over 150 children died as a result of paracetamol syrup containing diethylene glycol. The problem of fake drugs was so severe that neighbouring countries such as Ghana and Sierra Leone officially banned the sale of drugs, foods and beverages products made in Nigeria.\n\nSuch problems led to the establishment of NAFDAC, with the goal of eliminating counterfeit pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages products that are not manufactured in Nigeria and ensuring that available medications are safe and effective.\n\nThe formation of NAFDAC was inspired by a 1988 World Health Assembly resolution requesting countries' help in combating the global health threat posed by counterfeit pharmaceuticals.\n\nIn December 1992, NAFDAC's first governing council was formed. The council was chaired by Tanimu Saulawa. In January 1993, supporting legislation was approved as legislative Decree No. 15 of 1993. On January 1, 1994 NAFDAC was officially established as a “parastatal of the Federal Ministry of Health”.\n\nNAFDAC replaced an earlier Federal Ministry of Health body, the Directorate of Food and Drug Administration and Control, which had been deemed ineffective, partially because of lack of laws concerning fake drugs.\n\n“(NAFDAC) is headed by a chairman who presides over a governing council appointed by the president on the recommendation of the Minister of Health.”Other council members are: \nThree people from the general public are also represented on the council.\n\nSeveral units make up NAFDAC:\n\nNAFDAC has various basic functions. According to the requirements of its enabling decree, the Agency was authorized to:\n\nNAFDAC envisions that by making these functions known, that its actions will be apparent “in all sectors that deal with food, cosmetics, medical devices, bottled water, and chemicals to the extent of instilling extra need for caution and compulsion to respect and obey existing regulations both for healthy, living and knowledge of certain sanctions or default.Despite the establishment of NAFDAC, the sale and use of fake drugs did not end.\n\nDissatisfied with progress in combating fake drugs, President Olusegun Obasanjo's administration dissolved the management of NAFDAC in August 2000. In April 2001, a new management team, with Dora Akunyili as director-general, was inaugurated. The team re-organized the agency, which has been successful in the recent past due to three new federal policies:\n\nNAFDAC has made several achievements over the years, including\n\nAlthough the project has been launched, there are serious concerns of complicity, compromise and lack of professionalism in the delivery of the project; it does not however appear that the Presidency is aware of this. The above is buttressed by the following:\n\n\nThe activities of NAFDAC have been the subject of considerable scrutiny in recent years. The agency has drawn fire for being susceptible to overt government interference, subject to bribery, internal feuding and constant rumours and or allegations abound concerning misappropriation of funds. In one high-profile (and typical) case, the former NAFDAC director of finance and accounts, Andrew Ademola Mogbojuri, alleged mass fraud in 2015 against the agency's director-general, Dr. Paul Orhii. The agency claimed sour grapes was behind the allegation and labelled Mogbojuri's claim \"misleading and cheap blackmail\".\n\nOrhii was also the subject of a sweeping fraud allegation by NAFDAC whistleblowers earlier in 2015. A petition was sent to Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari, alleging frivolous contract awards and supplies, manipulated publicity efforts, donations and international air travel racketeering.\n\nSome of the world's largest brewers have been caught up in NAFDAC scandals as well. From a 2013 report alleging bribery conducted by Guinness and Heineken:\"Two multinational beer companies (Guinness and Heineken) have decided to do it the illegal way, which insiders alleged is to bribe officials of National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration Control (NAFDAC) to deny the manufacturers of local herbal gin accreditation, knowing that Nigerians who had been patronizing them will desist once they are not accredited by the agency. The bribes amount to millions of Naira.\"Guinness was back in the NAFDAC glare in 2016. Having been fined about ₦1 billion in November 2015 for allegedly re-validating and using expired raw materials without prior approval, the multinational brewer responded with a lawsuit, which was quietly dropped in March 2016.\n\nNAFDAC ensures it maintains very close contact with a number of national and international organizations whose activities relate to the functions of NAFDAC. Such Organizations include the following.\n\nIn order to keep in touch with the international scene for information, training, co-operation assistance, aid and for financing of specific projects, especially in these days of global and national austerity, the agency maintains close relationship with a number of international agencies some of which include: \n\n"}
{"id": "7201714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7201714", "title": "National Personal Training Institute", "text": "National Personal Training Institute\n\nThe National Personal Training Institute is a school that provides students with the education and training to become certified personal trainers. It is a 500 or 600 hour-long program that can be completed within 4, 6 or 12 months. The course covers roughly 100 hours of exercise program design, 100 hours of nutrition, 100 hours of anatomy and physiology, and 200 hours of practical experience. A part of each day is spent in a classroom setting learning the academic information and the remainder of each day is spent in a gym setting learning the practical aspects of personal training and actually working out.\n\nThe school is approved by the Department of Education in the states that they operate in. The school was founded by Gene McIlvaine in April 2001 with four schools; there are currently over 30 schools nationwide. The headquarters is in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Upon graduation students receive a diploma in personal training that does not expire, with the title of CPT (Certified Personal Trainer), they are Certified in Basic Nutrition, and they are certified in CPR/AED and First Aid. Successful completion of the class also makes a student eligible to take the National Academy of Sports Medicine Certification. The National Personal Training Institute expanded to Toronto, Canada in 2011. Ten NPTI school locations now offer federal financial aid.\n\n"}
{"id": "21090925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21090925", "title": "Obligatory Dangerousness Criterion", "text": "Obligatory Dangerousness Criterion\n\nAn Obligatory Dangerousness Criterion is a clause present in the mental health law of many developed countries. It mandates evidence of dangerousness to oneself or to others before involuntary treatment for mental illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "49163297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49163297", "title": "Occupational heat stress", "text": "Occupational heat stress\n\nOccupational heat stress is the net load to which a worker is exposed from the combined contributions of metabolic heat, environmental factors, and clothing worn which results in an increase in heat storage in the body. Heat stress can result in heat-related illnesses, such as heat stroke, hyperthermia, heat exhaustion, heat cramps or heat rashes. Although heat exhaustion is less severe, hyperthermia is a medical emergency and requires emergency treatment, which if not provided can even lead to death.\n\nHeat stress causes illness but also may account for an increase in workplace accidents, and a decrease in worker productivity. Worker injuries attributable to heat include those caused by: sweaty palms, fogged-up safety glasses, and dizziness. Burns may also occur as a result of accidental contact with hot surfaces or steam. In United States, occupational heat stress in becoming more significant as the average temperatures increase but remains overlooked. There are few studies and regulations regarding heat exposure of workers.\n\nHeat-related illnesses from occupational heat stress have several risk factors. Some of these factors include high temperatures, humidity, radiant heat sources, limited air movement, metabolic heat from physical exertion of energy, not drinking enough fluids, personal protective equipment and clothing, physical condition and health problems, medications, pregnancy, lack of acclimatization, advanced age, having a previous heat-related illness and others. \nWorkers in many occupations are at high risk for exposure to heat stress. Some of the higher risk occupations include firefighter, bakery worker, miner, military personnel, construction worker, factory worker, boiler room worker, landscaper, some athletes and agricultural worker.\n\nThe main symptoms of heat stress are perspiration, increased heart rate, and dehydration. Other general symptoms include painful muscle cramps, extreme weakness, nausea, dizziness, headache, breathing fast and clammy, pale, cool, and/or moist skin or red, dry skin. \n\nEmployers can establish prevention programs, which focus on having protocols to gradually increases workloads and concede on allowing on more breaks for new hired workers. Employers can control heat stress through engineering controls, work practices, providing training, implementing an acclimatization schedule, providing water and encouraging workers to drink often, and ensuring workers take appropriate rest breaks to cool down. \n\nInternational Organization for Standardization helps set standards for monitoring environments, analyzing data, and interpreting results.\n\nSection 5(a)(1) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 declares that \"Each employer shall furnish to each of his employees employment and a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm to his employees.\"\n\nThe Mine Safety and Health Administration provides guidelines and recommendations to employers for preventing heat stress among workers. There guidelines and recommendations are not enforced regulations, but instead completely voluntary.\n\nNational Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) conducts research on occupational hazards such as heat stress in order to provide better intervention methods and protect workers.\n\nOnly three of the fifty states have created worker regulations regarding heat: California, Washington, and Minnesota. California Code of Regulations states that employers of high risk outdoor workers are entitled to protection against heat. The employer must provide access to water and shade, practice high heat procedures, practice emergency response procedures, and practice acclimatization methods. Washington State Legislature states that employers of high risk outdoor workers follow regulations to prevent heat stress. Minnesota Administrative Rules state that indoor ventilation and temperature are regulated to prevent heat stress.\n\nBeginning in 1972, NIOSH published a recommended standard for hot work environments, and has periodically revised to take new scientific findings into account. The intent of the NIOSH Recommended Standard for Occupational Exposure to Heat and Hot Environments is to prevent injury, disease, death, and reduced productivity. The recommendations include workplace limits and surveillance, medical monitoring, surveillance of heat-related sentinel health events, posting of hazardous areas, protective clothing and equipment, worker information and training, control of heat stress, and record keeping.\n\nControl of heat stress has recommended general requirements, engineering controls, work and hygienic practices, and a heat alert program.\n\nNIOSH recommends that every employer should create and implement a written program aimed at reducing heat exposures. Engineering and work practice controls should be used to reduce exposures, and a heat alert program should be implemented.\n\nAir temperatures should be reduced so it does not exceed skin temperatures. Radiant heat should be reduced by creating barriers around the source. Evaporative heat loss can be increased by increasing air movement around the worker.\n\nThe time workers spend in hot environments should be limited, with an increase of recovery time spent in cool environments. Use of more efficient procedures and tools is beneficial to reducing metabolic demands of the job. Heat tolerance may be increased by implementing a heat tolerance plan and increasing physical fitness. Employees should be trained to recognize and treat the early signs and symptoms of heat illnesses, and employers should provide cool water for employees.\n\nHeat alert programs should be developed for implementation when hotter than normal temperatures, or a heat wave occurs.\n"}
{"id": "272176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272176", "title": "Paresis", "text": "Paresis\n\nParesis () is a condition typified by a weakness of voluntary movement, or partial loss of voluntary movement or by impaired movement. When used without qualifiers, it usually refers to the limbs, but it can also be used to describe the muscles of the eyes (ophthalmoparesis), the stomach (gastroparesis), and also the vocal cords (Vocal cord paresis). Neurologists use the term \"paresis\" to describe weakness, and \"plegia\" to describe paralysis in which all voluntary movement is lost. The term \"paresis\" comes from the \"letting go\" from παρίημι \"to let go, to let fall\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52166375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52166375", "title": "Plant-induced systemic resistance", "text": "Plant-induced systemic resistance\n\nInduced Systemic Resistance (ISR) is a resistance mechanism in plants that is activated by infection. Its mode of action does not depend on direct killing or inhibition of the invading pathogen, but rather on increasing physical or chemical barrier of the host plant. Like the Systemic Acquired Resistance (SAR) a plant can develop defenses against an invader such as a pathogen or parasite if an infection takes place. In contrast to SAR which is triggered by accumulation of pathogenesis-related proteins or salicylic acid, ISR instead relies on signal transduction pathways activated by jasmonate and ethylene.\n\nThe induction of plant-induced resistance to pathogen protection was identified in 1901 and was described as the \"system of acquired resistance.\" Subsequently several different terms have been used, namely, \"acquired physiological immunity\", \"resistance displacement\", \"plant immune function\" and \"induced system resistance.\" Many forms of stimulus have been found to induce the plant to the virus, bacteria and fungi and other disease resistance including Mechanical factors (dry ice damage, electromagnetic, ultraviolet, and low temperature and high temperature treatment, etc.) Chemical factors (heavy metal salts, water, salicylic acid) and Biological factors (fungi, bacteria, viruses, and their metabolites).\n\nInduced resistance of plants has two major modes of action: the SAR pathway and the ISR pathway. SAR can elicit a rapid local reaction, or hypersensitive response, the pathogen is limited to a small area of the site of infection. As mentioned, salicylic acid is the mode of action for the SAR pathway. ISR acts on a jasmonic acid (JA) mode of action. Both act on the effect of the NPR-1, but SAR utilizes PR genes. ISR enhances the defense systems of the plant by It is important to note that the two mediated responses have regulatory effects on one another. As SA goes up, it can inhibit the effect of JA. There is a balance to be maintained when activating both responses.\n\nISR responses can me mediated by rhizobacteria which has shown to be effective against necrotrophic pathogens and insect herbivores that are sensitive to JA/ET defenses. The importance of rhizobacteria-mediated ISR has been widely reported.\n\nThe biological factors of plant-induced system resistance generally include two broad categories, namely classical plant-induced resistance to disease induction (PGPR) or fungi that promote plant growth (PGPF), and plant growth-promoting rhizosphere bacteria (PGPR) or plant growth promoting fungi (PGPF). The difference is mainly due to the fact that the latter can effectively promote plant growth and increase crop yield while causing (or increasing) plant resistance to diseases (sometimes including pests).\n\nSome studies have also reported negative effects of beneficial microbes on plant-insect interactions as well.\n\nTo date, work on induction of plant systemic resistance has shown that inducing plant system resistance work has important implications for basic and applied research. \n\nInduced resistance applications in melons, tobacco, bean, potato, and rice have achieved significant success. Over the past decade, the study of induced system resistance has become a very active field of research.\n\nMethods to artificially activate the ISR pathway is an active area of research. The research and application of inducing plant system resistance have been encouraging but are not yet a major factor in controlling plant pathogens. Incorporation into intergrated pest management programs have shown some promising results. There is research regarding defense against leaf chewing insect pests, by the activation of jasmonic acid signalling triggered by root-associated microorganisms.\n\nSome ongoing research into ISR includes (1) how to systematically improve the selection of induction factors; (2) the injury of induced factors; (3) the phenomenon of multi-effect of induced factors; (4) the effects of chemical induction factors on environmental factors; (5) Establishment of population stability of multivariate biological inducible factor. Research into ISR is driven largely by a response to pesticide use including 1) Increasing resistance by pathogens to pesticides, 2) the necessity to remove some of the more toxic pesticides from the market, 3) health and environment problems caused as an effect of pesticide use, and 4) the inability of certain pesticides to control some pathogens.\n"}
{"id": "311410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311410", "title": "Pregnancy test", "text": "Pregnancy test\n\nA pregnancy test attempts to determine whether or not a woman is pregnant. Indicative markers are found in blood and urine, and pregnancy tests require sampling one of these substances. The first of these markers to be discovered, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), was discovered in 1930 to be produced by the syncytiotrophoblast cells of the fertilised ova (eggs).\n\nWhile hCG is a reliable marker of pregnancy, it cannot be detected until after implantation; this results in false negatives if the test is performed during the very early stages of pregnancy. HCG can be detected via blood 8 days after fertilization of the egg, and in the urine 10.\n\nObstetric ultrasonography may also be used to detect pregnancy. Obstetric ultrasonography was first practiced in the 1960s; the first home test kit for hCG was invented in 1968. The kits went on the market in the United States and Europe in the mid-1970s.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1930s, Hillel Shapiro and Harry Zwarenstein, who were researchers at the University of Cape Town, discovered that if urine from a pregnant female was injected into the South African Xenopus toad and the toad ovulated, this indicated that the woman was pregnant. This test was used throughout the world from the 1930s to 1960s, with Xenopus toads being exported live in great numbers.\n\nThe test for pregnancy which can give the quickest result after fertilisation is a rosette inhibition assay for early pregnancy factor (EPF). EPF can be detected in blood within 48 hours of fertilization. However, testing for EPF is expensive and time-consuming.\n\nMost chemical tests for pregnancy look for the presence of the beta subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in the blood or urine. hCG can be detected in urine or blood after implantation, which occurs six to twelve days after fertilization. Quantitative blood (serum beta) tests can detect hCG levels as low as 1 mIU/mL, while urine test strips have published detection thresholds of 10 mIU/mL to 100 mIU/mL, depending on the brand. Qualitative blood tests generally have a threshold of 25 mIU/mL, and so are less sensitive than some available home pregnancy tests. Most home pregnancy tests are based on lateral-flow technology.\n\nWith obstetric ultrasonography the gestational sac sometimes can be visualized as early as four and a half weeks of gestation (approximately two and a half weeks after ovulation) and the yolk sac at about five weeks' gestation. The embryo can be observed and measured by about five and a half weeks. The heartbeat may be seen as early as six weeks, and is usually visible by seven weeks' gestation.\n\nA systematic review published in 1998 showed that home pregnancy test kits, when used by experienced technicians, are almost as accurate as professional laboratory testing (97.4%). When used by consumers, however, the accuracy fell to 75%: the review authors noted that many users misunderstood or failed to follow the instructions included in the kits. Improper usage may cause both false negatives and false positives.\n\nFalse negative readings can occur when testing is done too early. Quantitative blood tests and the most sensitive urine tests usually begin to detect hCG shortly after implantation, which can occur anywhere from 6 to 12 days after ovulation. hCG levels continue to rise through the first 20 weeks of pregnancy, so the chances of false negative test results diminish with time (gestation age). Less sensitive urine tests and qualitative blood tests may not detect pregnancy until three or four days after implantation. Menstruation occurs on average 14 days after ovulation, so the likelihood of a false negative is low once a menstrual period is late.\n\nOvulation may not occur at a predictable time in the menstrual cycle, however. A number of factors may cause an unexpectedly early or late ovulation, even for women with a history of regular menstrual cycles. Using ovulation predictor kits (OPKs), or charting the fertility signs of cervical mucus or basal body temperature give a more accurate idea of when to test than day-counting alone.\n\nThe accuracy of a pregnancy test is most closely related to the day of ovulation, not of the act of intercourse or insemination that caused the pregnancy. It is normal for sperm to live up to five days in the fallopian tubes, waiting for ovulation to occur. It could take up to 12 further days for implantation to occur, meaning even the most sensitive pregnancy tests may give false negatives up to 17 days after the act that caused the pregnancy. Because some home pregnancy tests have high hCG detection thresholds (up to 100 mIU/mL), it may take an additional three or four days for hCG to rise to levels detectable by these tests — meaning false negatives may occur up to three weeks after the act of intercourse or insemination that causes pregnancy.\n\nFalse positive test results may occur for several reasons, including errors of test application, use of drugs containing the hCG molecule, and non-pregnant production of the hCG molecule. Urine tests can be falsely positive in those that are taking the medications: chlorpromazine, phenothiazines and methadone among others.\n\nSpurious \"evaporation lines\" may appear on many home pregnancy tests if read after the suggested 3–5 minute window or reaction time, independent of an actual pregnancy. False positives may also appear on tests used past their expiration date.\n\nA woman who has been given an hCG injection as part of infertility treatment will test positive on pregnancy tests that assay hCG, regardless of her actual pregnancy status. However, some infertility drugs (e.g., clomid) do not contain the hCG hormone.\n\nSome diseases of the liver, cancers, and other medical conditions may produce elevated hCG and thus cause a false positive pregnancy test. These include choriocarcinoma and other germ cell tumors, IgA deficiencies, heterophile antibodies, enterocystoplasties, gestational trophoblastic diseases (GTD), and gestational trophoblastic neoplasms.\n\nPregnancy tests may be used to determine the viability of a pregnancy. Serial quantitative blood tests may be done, usually 3–4 days apart. Below an hCG level of 1,200 mIU/ml the hCG usually doubles every 48–72 hours, though a rise of 50–60% is still considered normal. Between 1,200 and 6,000 mIU/ml serum the hCG usually takes 72–90 hours to double, and above 6,000 mIU/ml, the hCG often takes more than four days to double. Failure to increase normally may indicate an increased risk of miscarriage or a possible ectopic pregnancy.\n\nUltrasound is also a common tool for determining viability. A lower than expected heart rate or missed development milestones may indicate a problem with the pregnancy. Diagnosis should not be made from a single ultrasound, however. Inaccurate estimations of fetal age and inaccuracies inherent in ultrasonic examination may cause a scan to be interpreted negatively. If results from the first ultrasound scan indicate a problem, repeating the scan 7–10 days later is reasonable practice.\n\nRecords of attempts at pregnancy testing have been found as far back as the ancient Greek and ancient Egyptian cultures. The ancient Egyptians watered bags of wheat and barley with the urine of a possibly pregnant woman. Germination indicated pregnancy. The type of grain that sprouted was taken as an indicator of the fetus's sex. Hippocrates suggested that a woman who had missed her period should drink a solution of honey in water at bedtime: resulting abdominal distention and cramps would indicate the presence of a pregnancy. Avicenna and many physicians after him in the Middle Ages performed \"uroscopy\", a nonscientific method to evaluate urine.\n\nSelmar Aschheim and Bernhard Zondek introduced testing based on the presence of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in 1928. Early studies of hCG had concluded that it was produced by the pituitary gland. In the 1930s, Doctor Georgeanna Jones discovered that hCG was produced not by the pituitary gland, but by the placenta. This discovery was important in relying on hCG as an early marker of pregnancy. In the Aschheim and Zondek test, an infantile female mouse was injected subcutaneously with urine of the person to be tested, and the mouse later was killed and dissected. Presence of ovulation indicated that the urine contained hCG and meant that the person was pregnant. A similar test was developed using immature rabbits. Here, too, killing the animal to check her ovaries was necessary. An improvement arrived with the frog test, introduced by Lancelot Hogben, which still was used in the 1950s and allowed the frog to remain alive and be used repeatedly: a female frog was injected with serum or urine of the patient; if the frog produced eggs within the next 24 hours, the test was positive. This was called the Bufo test, named after the toad genus \"Bufo\", which was originally used for the test. Other species of toads and frogs have been used later on.\n\nHormonal pregnancy tests such as Primodos and Duogynon were used in the 1960s and 1970s in the UK and Germany. These tests involved taking a dosed amount of hormones, and observing the response a few days later. A pregnant woman does not react, as she is producing the hormones in pregnancy; a woman not pregnant responds to the absence of the hormone by beginning a new menstrual cycle. While the test was (is) generally considered accurate, research advancements have replaced it with simpler techniques.\n\nImmunologic pregnancy tests were introduced in 1960 when Wide and Gemzell presented a test based on in-vitro hemagglutination inhibition. This was a first step away from in-vivo pregnancy testing and initiated a series of improvements in pregnancy testing leading to the contemporary at-home testing. Direct measurement of antigens, such as hCG, was made possible after the invention of the radioimmunoassay in 1959. Radioimmunoassays require sophisticated apparatus and special radiation precautions and are expensive.\n\nOrganon International obtained the first patent on a home pregnancy test in 1969, two years after product designer Margaret Crane noticed that the laboratory testing procedure was relatively simple and made a prototype. The product became available in Canada in 1971, and the United States in 1977, after delays caused by concerns over sexual morality and the ability of women to perform test and cope with the results without a doctor.\n\nAnother home pregnancy testing kit was based on the work of Judith Vaitukaitis and Glenn Braunstein, who developed a sensitive hCG assay at the National Institutes of Health. That test went onto the market in 1978.\nIn the 1970s, the discovery of monoclonal antibodies led to the development of the relatively simple and cheap immunoassays, such as agglutination-inhibition-based assays and sandwich ELISA, used in modern home pregnancy tests. Tests are now so cheap that they can be mass-produced in a general publication and used for advertising.\n\n"}
{"id": "10654144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10654144", "title": "Seva Bharati", "text": "Seva Bharati\n\nSeva Bharati (Hindi:\" सेवा भारती\") is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working among the economically weaker sections of Indian society, including tribal and indigenous communities. It also works among urban slum dwellers and resettlement colonies by introducing welfare and social service programs, such as free medical assistance, free education, and vocational training. It runs about 160,000 activities throughout the year in 602 districts.\n\nIn 1979, veteran social worker and the then RSS Sarsanghachalak Shri Balasaheb Deoras addressed a mammoth gathering of volunteers at Ambedkar Stadium, Delhi, on 8 April 1978, where he called upon them to start service activities among the neglected sections of the society. He asked the volunteers to raise self-respect of the socially and economically deprived people of India. This speech is considered to be the initiating first step that led to starting the Seva Bharati. Although the volunteers of RSS and other allied organisations had been informally working for the betterment of the under-privileged, it was opined that a formal structure would help coordinate the service programs all over the country. Seva Bharati was thus established later that year.\n\nSeva Bharati is inspired from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and is the official community service umbrella of allied organisations. The \"Akhil Bharatiya Saha Seva Pramukh\" of the RSS guides the organisation and is also represented in the A\"khil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha\", the highest decision making body of the Sangh Parivar.\n\nAkhila Bharatiya Seva Pramukhs\n\nYadavrao Joshi (1989–1991)\n\nK Suryanarayan Rao (1991–1999)\n\nBhaiyyaji Joshi (1999–2004)\n\nPremchand Goel (2003–2007)\n\nSitaram Kedilaya (2007–2012)\n\nSuhasrao Hiremath (2012–2015)\n\nAjith Mahapatra (2015-2017)\n\nSri Parag Abhyankar (2017-\n\nThe massive relief work carried out by Seva Bharati following the 2001 Gujarat earthquake, the 2008 Bihar flood and the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami came in for considerable appreciation from various quarters. The organisation is also known for its efforts in rehabilitating the victims of terror, especially the children who are rendered orphans by terror attacks.\n\nThe volunteers of Seva Bharati today are involved in more than one hundred thousand service projects in remote areas of the country. Volunteers have been the first to reach many natural calamities, be it floods, accidents or other natural calamities such as earthquake or tsunami. Seva Bharati is reported to have 13,786 projects in education, 10,908 in health care, 17,560 in social welfare and 7,452 self-reliance projects. These projects, serving the economically weaker and socially neglected sections of the society range from medical assistance, crèche, library, hostel, basic education, adult education, vocational and industrial training, upliftment of street children and the lepers. Through these projects Seva Bharti aims at making the underprivileged sections of the society self-reliant in all aspects of their lives.\n\nThe Seva Bharati organizational report states that it has over five thousand health care centers spread across India, including 2761 rural health care centers, 385 mobile clinics, 161 resident clinics in urban areas, 30 counseling centers and 7 leprosy medication and rehabilitation centers. It has a chain of 14 Blood banks and over three hundred blood donation indexes that serve in times of emergencies. Seva Bharati helps poor patients get medicine for free or for subsidized amounts. It is reported that although the organization runs on \"shoestring budget\", it has been considered a \"savior for those desperately in need of un-affordable medicines\". It is reported that there are 234 such medicine collection and redistribution centers across India.\n\nIt has partnered with premier technological institutions to upgrade the health infrastructure. In a project partnered with the Birla Institute of Technology, Pilani, telemedicine centers have been formed with the aim of delivering of health care services across distances using telecom technology. Using the software 'Remedy Kit' and internet technology, developed by the institute, vital information regarding pulse rate, heart beat, blood pressure, ECG can be transferred over the broadband link from Seva Bharti to Medical Center, BITS-Pilani. The health care personnel at Medical Center will analyze and diagnose the health condition and prescribe the medicines that will be available at Seva Bharti Complex. The entire procedure will take merely 3–5 minutes. These techniques will be beneficial towards improvisation of health care accessibility, immunization drives, educating young mothers and children about hygiene and general cleanliness.\nFree health care camps are organized in the slums and economically poor areas with the help of hospitals, where hundreds of patients among other checkups are examined for cardiac and diabetic ailments. In the camps, teams of technicians, conduct free ECG, Echo cardiography and blood sugar testing. Apart from the checkups, there are dietitians who advise the patients about healthy diet, exercises and medicines. Medicines are distributed free of cost and counseling on psychiatric ailments is also provided. It also organizes naturopathy and other wellness camps for general public and thousands of people have benefited from these camps.\n\nSeva Bharati also conducts AIDS awareness programmes targeting lorry drivers, taxi drivers, dhaba owners and the youth where hundreds of participants participate and discuss topics including \"General health and hygiene\", \"STD symptoms and mode of transmission\", \"HIV-AIDS symptoms and mode of transmission\" and \"Safe sex\". Exhibitions are also organized and literature is distributed to make people aware about the disease and its prevention. Besides this, the organization regularly has health awareness drives like the ones on the world heart day.\n\nThe volunteers of the RSS, coordinated with the officials of various organizations, including the National Institute of Virology (NIV), the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC),the Indian Medical Association and held awareness campaign against swine flu. The volunteers helped the governmental authorities and people in tackling flu.\n\nThe team of RSS workers, which included medical professionals, helped the people at the screening centers. They provided leaflets to various housing societies and hoped to reach out to up to 1,000 societies in this way.\n\nSeva Bharati has many schools, rehabilitation and recreation centers for differently abled and special needs children and adult. The organization reports that it has 179 such centers across India, including special schools, hostels and recreation centers.\nIt also organizes awareness drives about the needs of the special needs children. Special meetings for disabled persons held by the organization serve as a platform for them to interact with specialists and others associated with them. Pediatricians, gynecologists, audiologists, ophthalmologists and other specialists participate in such camps.\n\nSeva Bharati and allied organizations have many eye banks that regularly conduct eye donation camps. They have provided hundreds of blind persons with eyes. The organization in collaboration with other eye hospitals runs eye care initiatives for the urban poor. The initiatives have covered thousands of slum children and aim at eradicating blindness and eye diseases in children. In one of the initiatives to provide free pediatric eye care to slum children, held in association with the Narayana Nethralaya in Bangalore, over 1010 slum children were screened. 200 children were detected to have visual problems and some of the conditions detected were corneal problems (18), squint (11), retinal (09), eyelid problems (16) and cataract (03). All these children requiring surgery & treatment received the same free of cost at Narayana Nethralaya over 143 received spectacles and other treatment free of cost. The project has put a target of screening 10,000 slum children before the end of 2009. In the last two camps, a team of doctors, paramedical workers and volunteers from NGOs examined and treated over 2400 children and even operated those requiring surgery – free of cost. Camps are also held in which corneal plantation is performed on hundreds of patients, which cure the eye ailments and help them regain their eyesight.\n\nSeva Bharati has rehabilitation centers for lepers. One such center is near Rajamundry in Andhra Pradesh. The center was founded in 1975 by Colonel D.S. Raju who had been a personal doctor to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose in INA. In 1982, it was handed over to the RSS and since then has been managed by RSS and Seva Bharati volunteers. It houses 106 leprosy patients and has a hospital adjoining the centre that caters to their medication needs. The is surrounded by greenery and also maintains a \"'gosala\"' and a library. The yeomen service rendered by the organisation has found mention in the case study in rehabilitation of leprosy patients authored by Dr A P J Abdul Kalam, the former President of India.\n\nSeva Bharati has numerous hostels for the economically underprivileged children across the country, especially the tribal and the rural poor. The organization reports over ten thousand educational projects in India, including hostels for boys and girls, primary education centers in rural areas and in slums, adult and informal education centers for street children and single teacher schools in the remote places of the country. It also helps students from the remote tribal areas to enroll in schools in different parts of the country and sponsors all their educational and other needs. It conducts camps for children that teach them folk songs and dances, making arts and crafts and painting to encourage creativity among them.\n\nThe organisation has run many literacy initiatives for adults and children. A project in the slums of Delhi aims at making Delhi hundred percent literate.\n\nSeva Bharati has rehabilitation centres named \"Matri Chhaya\" or (Mother's care) for destitute children. The project plans to envisage the \"Matri Chaya\" to be different from an orphanage and aims to provide ll facilities for children abandoned by their parents.. It is intended to provide the 'adopted' children education and other facilities till they settle in their life. \"The aim of this project\" as explained by one of its volunteers \"is to facilitate a good, healthy life for those children who are generally termed 'unwanted'\". Seva Bharati ties up with all the hospitals and the police to get information about all such children who are abandoned after their birth by their parents. These children are sent to schools and thereafter, to the vocational centers run by the organization, education for these children also includes coaching for higher studies after they clear their secondary level education.\n\nSeva Bharati has large number of centers that provide vocational training to economically underprivileged women. It trains women in making handicrafts and decorative items and helps to market these products. Hundreds of girls trained by Seva Bharati over the years are transforming handicrafts into a successful cottage industry mostly in the North Eastern states of India. Seva Bharati also conducts camps and organises exhibitions of handicrafts churned out at such camps and works as a catalyst in marketing these items. The participants are usually trained in fabric painting, hand stitching, pot-painting, glass painting, jute work, flower-making, cane and bamboo craft, pith and banana fibre craft. As a volunteer notes, the best part is that the items produced by these women are in demand because of their quality and hence are getting bulk orders. The handicrafts are today finding their way into homes across India.\n\nSeva Bharati reports that it has a total of 1404 such training projects across India, including centers that teach computers, tailoring, shorthand, stitching, sweater making, typing, carpentry, nursing, arts and handicrafts and recreational activities These training programs help the participants find jobs and earn a livelihood.\n\nSeva Bharati also has many initiatives aimed at creating awareness among the women regarding socio-economic programmes and health. The programmes create awareness about minor ailments, health, hygiene and nutrition, environment, pregnancy and rights of women, besides prevention of addiction.\n\nFrom the Valley of Kashmir to the Hills of the North-eastern India Seva Bharati works tirelessly for the basic human rights. The campaign for the Kashmiri Pandits or the campaign for the Pardhees of Maharashtra (labeled at birth as criminal tribe) or the Chenchu tribals of Nallamala Andhra Pradesh or the Gonds of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh the campaign for a better life and rights continues.\n\nPardhees are one of the 150 communities that the British notified as criminals in 1871. Though the Indian republic denotified them in 1952, 60 million of them continue to be social outcasts and victims at the hands of the police. Phase Pardhis form one third of the Pardhee clan). Under the banner of Bhatke Vimukta Vikas pratishtan and the Yamgarwadi Mitra Mandal fight for the rights and betterment of Pardhis continues. The rehabilitation of the Pardhis and the fight has brought eminent social worker and thinker Girish Prabhune several laurels in the field.\n\nSeva Bharati has stood by the Assam violence victims of July 2012. The Volunteers have set up medical aid, food and shelters to the victims . The activities extended to 60,000 victims providing food and shelter. Medical aid was provided with the help of 3 mobile dispensaries and 4 teams of doctors. Two truck loads of utensils were provided to the victims.\n\nSeva Bharati is also known for fighting for the rights of women who are taken as domestic helps to the cities and are exploited and abused. It has taken up the issues such as wage deprivation, assault and abuse and has also represented their concerns to various governmental bodies. It has coordinated with the governmental agencies to save rescue girls from abuse and harassment.\n\nAs many as 25,000 volunteers, including 600 doctors, from Seva Bharati, worked to rescue and rehabilitate the victims of the 2001 Gujarat earthquake. Nearly 10,000 operations were performed and over 19,000 patients were treated of injuries and other ailments. Besides, the organisation sent huge amounts of relief material for the quake-hit victims from different parts of the country.\n\nNews magazine \"Outlook\" reported \"Literally within minutes RSS / Seva Bharati volunteers were at the scenes of distress. Across Gujarat, the (RSS) cadres were the saviours. Even as the state machinery went comatose in the first two days after the quake, the cadre-based machinery of the Sangh fanned out throughout the state. Approximately 35,000 RSS members in uniform were pressed into service.\"\n\nIn the words of the district collector of Ahmedabad K. Srinivas: \"This is an old tradition in the RSS. To be the first at any disaster strike: floods, cyclone, drought and now quake. In Kachchh, too, the RSS / Seva Bharati was the first to reach the affected areas. At Anjar, a town in ruins, the RSS was present much before the Army and took the lead in finding survivors and fishing out the dead.\"\n\n\"India Today\", arguably India's most respected weekly, reported in its issue of 12 Feb 2001, that \"It is conceded by even their worst detractors that the RSS through Seva bharati has been in the forefront of the non-official rescue and relief (operations). This has led to an upsurge of goodwill for the Sangh\".\n\nWhen the 2004 tsunami hit the southern coasts of India, thousands of volunteers, under the aegis of the Seva Bharati, engaged in relief work. The volunteers, in cooperation with organisations like Ramakrishna Mutt in Tamil Nadu, Nair Service Society, Sri Narayana Guru Dharma Paripalana Yogam and Mata Amrithanandamayi Mutt in Kerala and Janakshema Samiti in Andhra Pradesh, set up relief camps in tsunami-affected districts of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. They distributed thousands of food packets, organised teams doctors and cremated thousands of dead bodies.\n\n\"Tughlaq\", a magazine based in Chennai, carried a report on the relief work of the tsunami that hit the coasts of Tamil Nadu. It reported that when the tsunami left the whole government machinery paralysed, it was because of the immediate relief work of Seva Bharati that hundreds of lives were saved. \"Seva Bharati had started rehabilitating people fleeing from the waves, losing their houses, boats, nets, etc., by feeding them, settling them in dry places, etc. during the first day itself. Medical relief was also made available in all the 208 places spread over nine districts.\" It further adds \"The task of even taking the dead bodies to the medical centres appeared too daunting. It was the Seva Bharati workers who dared to venture into seashores and retrieve the bodies. From the beginning of the calamity on the morning of the 26th up to writing this on 2 January, the number of dead retrieved by Seva Bharati is 2,469! There have been occasions when some have been rescued alive while searching for bodies.\" The editor of Tughlaq, and noted dramatist Cho Ramaswamy says \"The concerned authorities admit privately that it was the RSS-sponsored Seva Bharati, which did yeoman service everywhere. Politics forbids them to acknowledge this in public\".\n\nAfter the tsunami, Seva Bharati with other allied organisations conducted a survey of the affected areas and rehabilitated the people of the worst-hit villages and helped them build homes and other basic infrastructure facilities. It also conducted counseling sessions for the victims, mostly the children to help them face the trauma after the calamity.\n\nIn the floods that swept across the Southern states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.\n\nIn the first phase of relief operations, they distributed over 100 thousand food packets collected from neighboring villages and districts in the interior rural areas of Kurnool, Mahaboobnagar and Nalgonda districts. Since links to Kurnool had been cut off, material was brought in from Anantapur, Kadapa, Nellore in the Andhra Pradesh and Raichur in Karnataka. Relief camps were set up in Karnool town at Saraswati Sishu Mandir and G Pulla Reddy Engineering College. Volunteers from Adoni cleaned the Raghavendra Swamy temple in Mantralayam and cleared the carcasses of the cows of Goshala and other animals, and handed them over to the police.\n\nIn Hyderabad, 2,000 volunteers went round the city collecting money, food and other material needed for the flood-affected. Two donation collection centres have come up at the State headquarters of RSS and the Keshav Memorial School. Every day four truckloads of food material, two trucksloads of other essentials were dispatched to flood-affected areas. Besides, 200 volunteers from the city are engaged in sanitation work there.\n\nIn the second phase of relief operations, the RSS surveyed the affected areas of Mahaboobnagar district and found that 58 villages were badly destroyed and 16,000 families were devastated. The organisation decided to supply kits to 5,000 families to enable them to lead a normal life. Each kit consists of kitchen utensils, foodgrains and other material of daily use.\n\nIn Kurnool district, 250 to 300 villages were still underwater hampering their survey. In the third and final phase of operations, the RSS planned to rehabilitate devastated people and reconstruct destroyed villages.\n\n\"We have identified various means of rehabilitation of people like supplying them implements required for their occupation,\" volunteers said, adding that they were involving several voluntary organisations.\n\nIn the Floods and cloudburst that created havoc and mayhem in Uttarakhand June 2013 Seva Bharathi had 5,000 RSS volunteers taken up relief and rescue along with the Indian Armed forces. The Largest ever rescue mission for the 100,000 pilgrims and locals.\nFrom the day 1 (16-June) till now 20 truck loads of relief material sent to flood affected areas from Dehradun. RSS Sewa Vibhag surveying the area assessing the loss of life property. 1.Badrinath-Hemkund Sahib, 2. Kedarnath, 3. Gangotri-Yamunotri. Approx 200 villages are worst affected in the floods and some of them are totally washed out.\nFollowing the 2015 flood in Chennai, about 5900 Volunteers from Seva Bharati participated in rescue and relief work in flood-affected areas. According to a press note, the relief work was divided under 15 departments like medical, rescue, distribution of relief materials, counselling, preparing and distributing food (breakfast, lunch and dinner), co-ordinating etc. i. Around 12,00,000 food packets were distributed. Medicines, dress materials and water were distributed. Seva Bharati volunteers also helped Indian Army in various rescue operations.\n\nSeva bharathi participated in relief activity in 2018 Kerala floods.\n\nSeva Bharati has adopted a hundred children from the insurgency and militancy affected regions of Jammu and Kashmir including Gul, Mohore, Dharmani and Buddhal Tehsils in Udhampur and Rajouri districts. The children, both Hindu and Muslim, who have been adopted have been rendered orphans by terrorist attacks in which many of the family members have been killed. The children are in the age group of five to fifteen. They will study till Class 12 in boarding schools in Delhi, which are funded or supported by the Seva Bharati.\n\nThe project by Seva Bharati hopes to give these children a life away from bloodshed and give them back their lost childhood and new dreams to chase. Their parents and guardians are happy that their children are in safe hands.\n\nThe Indian Army, which has selected the NGO for adoption, says that they are optimistic that these children after 10 years, will be some of the finest citizens of the country. The army sees a bright future for these children and believes that the humane gesture of NGOs like Seva Bharati and similar organisations from various parts of the country will go a long way in boosting the efforts to bring in an era of peace and prosperity in Jammu and Kashmir and more so root out the evil of terrorism from this region.\n\nIt has several schemes that provide drinking water to the remote parts of India, mostly those facing water scarcity. Places that face severe water shortage are supplied water through the tankers at subsidized rates or for free. Free food distribution is also conducted in hospitals for ailing poor patients. It distributes warm clothing and sweaters for the under-privileged children to cope with the chilling winters.\nUnder the aegis of Seva Bharathi a water conservation forum Jala Bharathi has been started. Jala Bharathi organises seminar and training programs on water conservation and rain water harvesting.\nThe organisation conducts environment awareness programs among the general public. Such awareness campaigns have resulted in many environmental friendly steps being taken by the people. A pledge to shun environmentally hazardous disposable plastic items was taken by the residents of Jakkacombai Badaga hamlet in a remote part of Kotagiri a small village on the tip of Nilgiri hills.\n\nSeva Bharati has day care centre named 'Aasare' for the senior citizens who face constant neglect from their families and the society.\n\nSeva Bharati serves as a platform for volunteers who help manage large community events. The volunteers have helped in crowd management, maintaining order and providing essential services to the pilgrims in centers that witness huge number of people like the Sabarimala temple in the South Indian state of Kerala. They set up medical camps and provide basic amenities such as drinking water. The organisations help is regularly sought by Governmental agencies in maintaining order during festivals. The organization organizes blood donation camps where volunteers and other youth are encouraged to donate blood.\n\n"}
{"id": "27114627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27114627", "title": "Smoking in Macau", "text": "Smoking in Macau\n\nSmoking in Macau is regulated more strictly than in mainland China, but not to the extent of the regulation of smoking in Hong Kong.\n\nIn May 2009 the government of Macau Special Administrative Region (SAR) announced a planned indoor smoking ban for all public places, \"to create a fair environment where smokers have the freedom to smoke and non-smokers also have the freedom not to inhale second-hand smoke,\" Health Bureau director Lei Chin Ion said. In April 2009 the government of Macau SAR announced proposed legislation that sought to raise the tobacco sales tax by 300%. Smoking is not banned in Macau's casinos, which are a major aspect of tourism in Macau. A majority of Macau residents support a total ban on smoking in public places, but lawmakers in closed session on 20 April 2010 were unable to reach a consensus regarding a total ban inside casinos. The increasing number of smokers is a cause for concern, as 17% of people in Macau smoke.\n\n"}
{"id": "51729607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51729607", "title": "Society for Medical Decision Making", "text": "Society for Medical Decision Making\n\nThe Society for Medical Decision Making (SMDM) is an academic society based in Hillsborough, New Jersey, that focuses on improving health outcomes through the advancement of proactive systematic approaches to clinical decision making and policy-formation in health care by providing a scholarly forum that connects and educates researchers, providers, policy-makers, and the public. SMDM promotes scientific and methodological rigor in healthcare decision science and behavioral science, and their application to clinical care and health policy.\nSMDM thrives on interdisciplinary scholarship, methodological excellence, and a global perspective on health care.\nThe Society's official journal is Medical Decision Making that focuses on the following topics:\n\n"}
{"id": "11803600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11803600", "title": "Stephen Faraone", "text": "Stephen Faraone\n\nStephen V. Faraone is an American psychologist. He has worked mainly on attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and related disorders.\n\nFaraone graduated in 1978 from the State University of New York at Stony Brook with a BA in Psychology. He then went to the University of Iowa where he obtained his Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy. Faraone completed a postdoctoral clinical psychology internship and a research fellowship at Brown University.\n\nAfter completing his post-doctoral fellowship at Brown, Faraone came to the Harvard Department of Psychiatry where he began a career in psychiatric genetics. He first served as an instructor in 1985, and as an Assistant Professor in 1989. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 1993 and Full Professor in 2002. In 2004 he moved to SUNY Upstate Medical University where he is now Distinguished Professor of Psychiatry and of Neuroscience and Physiology. He is also Senior Scientific Advisor to the Research Program Pediatric Psychopharmacology at the Massachusetts General Hospital and a lecturer at Harvard Medical School. Faraone is principal investigator on several National Institutes of Health funded grants studying the nature and causes of mental disorders in childhood. He is one of the world’s leading authorities on the genetics of psychiatric disorders and has also made substantial contributions to research in psychopharmacology and research methodology.\n\nFaraone has authored over 700 journal articles, editorials, chapters, and books and was the eighth highest producer of High Impact Papers in Psychiatry from 1990 to 1999 as determined by the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI). In 2005, ISI determined him to be the second highest cited author in the area of ADHD and in 2007, he was the third most highly cited researcher in psychiatry for the preceding decade. In 2011, he was the seventh most highly cited researcher in psychiatry and psychology for the preceding decade. in 2014 he became the third most highly cited researcher in psychiatry and psychology. with a lifetime h-index of 157 .\n\nIn 2002, Faraone was inducted into the CHADD Hall of Fame in recognition of outstanding achievement in medicine and education research on attention disorders. In 2004 and 2008, Faraone was elected to the Vice Presidency of the International Society of Psychiatric Genetics. In 2008, he received the SUNY Upstate President’s Award for Excellence and Leadership in Research. In 2009, he was awarded Alumni Fellow status at the University of Iowa. In 2010, he received the Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Scholarship and Creative Activities from the State University of New York. In 2014 Thompson Reuters placed him on their list of The World’s Most Influential Scientific Minds for the fields of psychiatry and psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "23797723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23797723", "title": "Supportive psychotherapy", "text": "Supportive psychotherapy\n\nSupportive psychotherapy is a psychotherapeutic approach that integrates various schools to provide therapeutic support. It includes components from therapeutic schools such as psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral, and interpersonal conceptual models and techniques. The aim of supportive psychotherapy is to reduce or to relieve the intensity of manifested or presenting symptoms, distress or disability. It also reduces the extent of behavioral disruptions caused by the patient's psychic conflicts or disturbances. The objective of the therapist is to reinforce the patient's healthy and adaptive patterns of thought behaviors in order to reduce the intrapsychic conflicts that produce symptoms of mental disorders. Unlike in psychoanalysis, in which the analyst works to maintain a neutral demeanor as a \"blank canvas\" for transference, in supportive therapy the therapist engages in a fully emotional, encouraging, and supportive relationship with the patient as a method of furthering healthy defense mechanisms, especially in the context of interpersonal relationships.\n\nThis therapy has been used for patients suffering from severe cases of addiction as well as bulimia nervosa, stress and other mental illnesses.\n\nSupportive psychotherapy is used as an initial therapy, to be reduced and not to be prolonged, in situations or periods where there is a lack of means for a systematic approach or behaviorism. Examples of such situations include: \n\nA systematic review examined the effectiveness of supportive therapy for people with schizophrenia:\nInternet-based supportive psychotherapy is a type of supportive psychotherapy that is characterized by having a two-hour initial meeting between the client and therapist, and then periodic and occasional study conducted by therapist through email and telephone.\n\nSome studies suggest that genetics, animal studies and neuroscience may have an impact or play a role in supportive psychotherapy.\n\n"}
{"id": "44441540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44441540", "title": "Targeted immunization strategies", "text": "Targeted immunization strategies\n\nTargeted immunization strategies are approaches designed to increase the immunization level of populations and decrease the chances of epidemic outbreaks. Though often in regards to use in healthcare practices and the administration of vaccines to prevent biological epidemic outbreaks, these strategies refer in general to immunization schemes in complex networks, biological, social or artificial in nature. Identification of at-risk groups and individuals with higher odds of spreading the disease often plays an important role in these strategies.\n\nThe success of vaccines and anti-virus software in preventing major outbreaks relies on the mechanism of herd immunity, also known as community immunity, where the immunization of individuals provides protection for not only the individuals, but also the community at large. In cases of biological contagions such as influenza, measles, and chicken pox, immunizing a critical community size can provide protection against the disease for members who cannot be vaccinated themselves (infants, pregnant women, and immunocompromised individuals). Often however these vaccine programmes require the immunization of a large majority of the population to provide herd immunity. A few successful vaccine programmes have led to the eradication of infectious diseases like small pox and rinderpest, and the near eradication of polio, which plagued the world before the second half of the 20th century.\n\nMore recently researchers have looked at exploiting network connectivity properties to better understand and design immunization strategies to prevent major epidemic outbreaks. Many real networks like the Internet, world wide web, and even sexual contact networks have been shown to be scale-free networks and as such exhibit a power-law distribution for the degree distribution. In large networks this results in the vast majority of nodes (individuals in social networks) having few connections or low degree \"k\", while a few \"hubs\" have many more connections than the average <\"k\">. This wide variability (heterogeneity) in degree offers immunization strategies based on targeting members of the network according to their connectivity rather than random immunization of the network. In epidemic modeling on scale-free networks, targeted immunization schemes can considerably lower the vulnerability of a network to epidemic outbreaks over random immunization schemes. Typically these strategies result in the need for far fewer nodes to be immunized in order to provide the same level of protection to the entire network as in random immunization. In circumstances then where vaccines are scarce, efficient immunization strategies become necessary to preventing infectious outbreaks.\n\nExamples\n\nA common approach for targeted immunization studies in scale-free networks focuses on targeting the highest degree nodes for immunization. These nodes are the most highly connected in the network, making them more likely to spread the contagion if infected. Immunizing this segment of the network can drastically reduce the impact of the disease on the network and requires the immunization of far fewer nodes compared to randomly selecting nodes. However, this strategy relies on knowing the global structure of the network, which may not always be practical.\n\nAnother strategy, \"acquaintance immunization\", tries to target all of the most highly connected nodes for immunization by going through their neighbors without knowing the full network topology. In this approach a random group of nodes are chosen and then a random set of their neighbors are selected for immunization. The most highly connected nodes are far more likely to be in this group of neighbors so immunizing this group results in targeting the most highly connected but requiring far less information about the network. Another variant of this strategy again calls for the random selection of nodes but instead asks for one of their neighbors with a higher degree, or at least more than a given threshold degree and immunizes them. These degree based strategies consistently require fewer nodes to be immunized and as such improve a network's chances against epidemic attacks.\n\nA recent centrality measure, Percolation Centrality, introduced by Piraveenan et al. is particularly useful in identifying nodes for vaccination based on the network topology. Unlike node degree which depends on topology alone, however, percolation centrality takes into account the topological importance of a node as well as its distance from infected nodes in deciding its overall importance. Piraveenan et al. has shown that percolation centrality-based vaccination is particularly effective when the proportion of people already infected is on the same order of magnitude as the number of people who could be vaccinated before the disease spreads much further. If infection spread is at its infancy, then ring-vaccination surrounding the source of infection is most effective, whereas if the proportion of people already infected is much higher than the number of people that could be vaccinated quickly, then vaccination will only help those who are vaccinated and herd immunity cannot be achieved. Percolation centrality-based vaccination is most effective in the critical scenario where the infection has already spread too far to be completely surrounded by ring-vaccination, yet not spread wide enough so that it cannot be contained by strategic vaccination. Nevertheless, Percolation Centrality also needs full network topology to be computed, and thus is more useful in higher levels of abstraction (for example, networks of townships rather than social networks of individuals), where the corresponding network topology can more readily be obtained.\n\nMillions of children worldwide do not receive all of the routine vaccinations as per their national schedule. As immunization is a powerful public health strategy for improving child survival, it is important to determine what strategies work best to increase coverage. A Cochrane review assessed the effectiveness of intervention strategies to boost and sustain high childhood immunization coverage in low- and middle income countries. Fourteen trials were included but most of the evidence was of low quality. Providing parents and other community members with information on immunization, health education at facilities in combination with redesigned immunization reminder cards, regular immunization outreach with and without household incentives, home visits, and integration of immunization with other services may improve childhood immunization coverage in low-and middle income countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "50349449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50349449", "title": "The Journal of Rural Health", "text": "The Journal of Rural Health\n\nThe Journal of Rural Health is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering rural health. It was established in 1981 as the American Journal of Rural Health, obtaining its current name in 1985. It is published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the National Rural Health Association. The editor-in-chief is Tyrone Borders (University of Kentucky). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.453, ranking it 41st out of 71 journals in the category \"Health Policy & Services\".\n"}
{"id": "51110835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51110835", "title": "Tornwaldt's disease", "text": "Tornwaldt's disease\n\nTornwaldt's disease is the inflammation or abscess of the embryonic cyst of pharyngeal bursa.It is located in the midline of the posterior wall of the nasopharynx. It is covered anteriorly by mucosa in the adenoid mass. It is bounded posteriorly by longus muscle.\n\nTornwaldt's disease was noted by Mayer in 1840. He noted it in an autopsy specimen but founded as a pathologic entity by German physician Gustavust L. Tornwaldt in 1855. Only a few cases have been reported in Japan between 1929 and 1992. In 2008-2009, six patients were diagnosed to have nasopharyngeal bursitis.Out of which four were males and two females\n\nTornwaldt's disease is caused by many different causative agents of stimulus. This includes excessive alcohol and tobacco which causes decrease in local immune resistance and so the pathogenic microbes take advantage and lead to the disease. Frequent contact with high temperature, malnutrition, chronic heart disease, kidney disease, joint disease, poor living and working conditions and contact with dust and harmful gases leads to the thornwaldt's disease.\n\nTornwaldt's disease is a rare benign disorder caused by persistent notochord remnants. This disease almost remains asymptomatic. At about the 10th week of embryonic development, the pharyngeal pouch forms by adhesion of the pharyngeal ectoderm to the cranial end of the notochord. This become closed at the orifice or crusts adhere to the orifice without closing. The contact between these remnants and pharyngeal ectoderm leads to the growth of respiratory epithelium. This forms Tornwaldt's bursa which drains into the nasopharyngeal cavity. This only forms cyst when the orifice partially or completely obstructed by infection. A Tornwaldt's cyst progresses in to Tornwaldt's disease only after infection or inflammation occurs.\n\nThe symptoms usually appear when there is inflammation of pharyngeal bursa causing Tornwaldt's cyst. This is caused by spontaneous drainage in the nasopharyngeal cavity or can also be caused because of involvement of nervous plexus.\nThe symptoms are occipital headache, cough, middle ear effusion,cervical myalgia, halitosis ie bad breath. When there is an enlargement of the cyst it causes symptoms like nasal obstruction, post nasal discharge with foul smelling odour, blockage of Eustachian tube causing otalgia and secretory otitis media, retro orbital pain.\n\nCT scan shows solid mass of Tornwaldt's cyst and MRI shows glass shaped lesion with a fluid on upper part of posterior nasopharyngeal wall. Additionally, a cystic mass in upper part of nasopharyngeal wall and mucopurulent discharge from upper part of the mass can be seen on nasal endoscopy. Among them MRI is the best for diagnosing the Tornwaldt's cyst.\n\nAntibiotics are given to treat the infection. If there is a large symptomatic lesion, surgery by transnasal endoscopic marsupialisation is the treatment option because it is safe,fast and provides good visualization during surgery and for small lesion Endonasal approach is recommended.\n\n"}
{"id": "54555754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54555754", "title": "UCSF School of Nursing", "text": "UCSF School of Nursing\n\nThe UCSF School of Nursing is the nursing school of University of California, San Francisco, and is located in San Francisco, California. It is the number one nursing school in the United States by NIH funding. It is recognized as one of the premier graduate nursing schools in the United States. \n\nFollowing the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, more than 40,000 people were relocated to a makeshift tent city in Golden Gate Park and were treated by the faculty of the Affiliated Colleges (now called UCSF). This brought the school, which until then was located on the western outskirts of the city, in contact with significant population and fueled the commitment of the school towards civic responsibility and health care, increasing the momentum towards the construction of health facilities. Finally, in April 1907 one of the buildings was renovated for outpatient care with 75 beds. This created the need to train nursing students, and in 1907, the UC Training School for Nurses was established as the fourth Affiliated College of the University of California Medical Department, joining the Colleges of Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy.\n"}
{"id": "873641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873641", "title": "Valeri Polyakov", "text": "Valeri Polyakov\n\nValeri Vladimirovich Polyakov (, born Valeri Ivanovich Korshunov on April 27, 1942) is a former Russian cosmonaut. He is the holder of the record for the longest single stay in space in human history, staying aboard the Mir space station for more than 14 months (437 days 18 hours) during one trip. His combined space experience is more than 22 months.\n\nSelected as a cosmonaut in 1972, Polyakov made his first flight into space aboard Soyuz TM-6 in 1988. He returned to Earth 240 days later aboard TM-7. Polyakov completed his second flight into space in 1994–1995, spending 437 days in space between launching on Soyuz TM-18 and landing on TM-20, setting the record for the longest time continuously spent in space by an individual in human history.\n\nPolyakov was born in Tula in the USSR on April 27, 1942. Born Valeri Ivanovich Korshunov, Polyakov legally changed his name after being adopted by his stepfather in 1957. He was educated at the Tula Secondary School No. 4, from which he graduated in 1959.\n\nHe enrolled in the I. M. Sechenov 1st Moscow Medical Institute, where he graduated with a doctoral degree. After, he enrolled in the Institute of Medical and Biological Problems, Ministry of Public Health, Moscow, where he specialized in astronautics medicine. Polyakov dedicated himself to the field of space medicine in 1964 after the flight of the first physician in space, Boris Yegorov, aboard Voskhod 1.\n\nPolyakov was selected as a cosmonaut in Medical Group 3 on March 22, 1972. His first flight into space occurred on Soyuz TM-6 in 1988. After staying aboard the Mir space station and conducting research for 240 days, Polyakov returned to Earth aboard Soyuz TM-7.\n\nPolyakov's second spaceflight, the longest human spaceflight in history, began on January 8, 1994 with the launch of the Soyuz TM-18 mission. He spent approximately 437 days aboard Mir conducting experiments and performing scientific research. During this flight, he completed just over 7,000 orbits of the Earth. On January 9, 1995, after 366 days in space, Polyakov formally broke the spaceflight duration record previously set by Vladimir Titov and Musa Manarov six years earlier. He returned to Earth aboard Soyuz TM-20 on March 22, 1995. Upon landing, Polyakov opted not to be carried the few feet between the Soyuz capsule and a nearby lawn chair, instead walking the short distance. In doing so, he wished to prove that humans could be physically capable of working on the surface of Mars after a long-duration transit phase.\n\nPolyakov volunteered for his 437-day flight to learn how the human body would respond to the micro-gravity environment on long-duration missions to Mars. Upon returning from his second spaceflight, Polyakov held the record for the most total time in space. This record was later broken by Sergei Avdeyev and is currently held by Gennady Padalka. Data from Polyakov's flight has been used by researchers to determine that humans are able to maintain a healthy mental state during long-duration spaceflight just as they would on Earth.\n\nPolyakov underwent medical assessments before, during, and after the flight. He also underwent two follow-up examinations six months after returning to Earth. When researchers compared the results of these medical exams, it was revealed that although there were no impairments of cognitive functions, Polyakov experienced a clear decline in mood as well as a feeling of increased workload during the first few weeks of spaceflight and return to Earth. Polyakov's mood stabilized to pre-flight levels between the second and fourteenth month of his mission. It was also revealed that Polyakov did not suffer from any prolonged performance impairments after returning to Earth. In light of these findings, researchers concluded that a stable mood and overall function could be maintained during extended duration spaceflights, such as manned missions to Mars.\n\n\nPolyakov retired from his position as a cosmonaut in June 1995, with a total of just over 678 days in space. He participated in experiment SFINCSS-99 (Simulation of Flight of International Crew on Space Station) in 1999. Polyakov is currently the Deputy Director of the Ministry of Public Health in Moscow, where he oversees the medical aspects of long-duration space missions. He is a member of the Russian Chief Medical Commission, participating in the qualification and selection of cosmonauts. He also holds membership in the International Space Researcher's Association and the International Academy of Astronautics. Polyakov is married and has one child.\n\nSince returning from space, Polyakov remained active in the discipline of international spaceflight, becoming a \"cosmonaut-investigator\" for the United States, Austria, Germany, and France during their respective space science missions to the Mir space station.\n\nPolyakov has won several awards for his spaceflight and academic achievements, including the Hero of the Soviet Union, Hero of the Russian Federation, Order of Lenin, Order of the Legion of Honour, and the Order of Parasat. He is a member of organizations related to astronautics, including the Russian Chief Medical Commission on cosmonauts' certification.\n\nPolyakov holds the title of \"Pilot-Cosmonaut of the USSR\" and has published several works pertaining to life sciences, medical aspects of space missions, and the results of research conducted on long-duration spaceflights.\n\nPolyakov's record for longest cumulative time in space of 678 days over two missions stood until surpassed in 1999 by cosmonaut Sergei Avdeyev with a total of 747 days in space during three different missions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7305586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7305586", "title": "Vegetable box scheme", "text": "Vegetable box scheme\n\nA vegetable box scheme is an operation that delivers fresh fruit and vegetables, often locally grown and organic, either directly to the customer or to a local collection point. Typically the produce is sold as an ongoing weekly subscription and the offering may vary week to week depending on what is in season.\n\nThe first organic box scheme was created by Guy Watson in 1987, who delivered fresh produce locally from Riverford farm. These schemes are usually operated by the grower or a small co-operative. There are approximately 600 such schemes operating in the UK and by early 2007, according to the Soil Association, retail sales via such schemes were in excess of £100 million per annum.\n\nMany schemes are run on a local or regional basis, delivering food direct from the producer to the consumer. Other schemes offer a nationwide delivery, with produce supplied by a network of growers, co-operatives and wholesalers negating the local food affiliation of these schemes. Some British supermarkets have also begun offering vegetable boxes.\n\nA box scheme usually works by subscription. A customer signs up to a weekly or fortnightly delivery of fresh vegetables and/or fruit. The contents will vary week to week as selected by the box scheme provider on the basis of seasonality and availability. Some schemes offer the option of purchasing extra goods to be delivered along with the vegetable box, such as dairy produce and meat.\n\n"}
{"id": "3365721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3365721", "title": "Wildcrafting", "text": "Wildcrafting\n\nWildcrafting (also known as foraging) is the practice of harvesting plants from their natural, or 'wild' habitat, primarily for food or medicinal purposes. It applies to uncultivated plants wherever they may be found, and is not necessarily limited to wilderness areas. Ethical considerations are often involved, such as protecting endangered species, potential for depletion of commonly held resources, and in the context of private property, preventing theft of valuable plants, for example, ginseng. Four states and five national forests in America actively manage the wild harvesting of ginseng to ensure sustainability of wild populations. In Europe, non-wood forest products (e.g., forest fruits, mushroom, cork, pine kernels, acorns, medicinal herbs, essential oils, chestnuts etc.) can be significant in the bioeconomy, especially in regions where wood is not the most profitable product. These were examined during a four year study called The StarTree Project which assessed the wildcrafting of non-timber forest products across 14 regions of Europe to explore best practice and commercial opportunities.\n\nWhen wildcrafting is done sustainably and with proper respect, generally only the fruit, flowers or branches from plants are taken and the living plant is left, or if it is necessary to take the whole plant, seeds of the plant are placed in the empty hole from which the plant was taken. Care is taken to remove only a few plants, flowers, or branches, so plenty remains to continue the supply. The Association of Foragers believes that foraging by people plays an increasingly important role supporting, promoting and defending the health of all plants, fungi, algae, animals (including humans) and the habitats/environments in which they exist. Plants for a Future database lists 7000 plants with edible, medicinal or other uses. In the USA, the mission of United Plant Savers is to protect native medicinal plants of the United States and Canada (such as Goldenseal) and their native habitat while ensuring an abundant renewable supply of medicinal plants for generations to come.\n\nThere is no evidence that foraging in small amounts for personal use by people and their families has any impact on populations of plants and fungi. However, once a species attracts widespread commercial interest it can quickly come under pressure if sustainable harvesting and management procedures are not followed. A case in point is Arnica, a medicinal species made into homeopathic remedies and highly popular first aid creams for bumps and bruises. It is now under strict protection and is included in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species and in the Red Data Books and Red Data Lists of many European countries. Despite the loss of habitats, Arnica is mainly harvested from the wild. Dried flowers traded annually in Europe are estimated to be around 50 tonnes. The collection of Arnica for medicinal purposes has also caused disappearance or reduction in the size of several European populations. The pressure on natural sources of this plant is alleviated by a suitable use of \"Arnica\" supply in the European region, where flower heads are harvested.\n\n"}
{"id": "19045580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19045580", "title": "Zimbabwe at the 2008 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Zimbabwe at the 2008 Summer Paralympics\n\nZimbabwe competed in the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing, China. The country's delegation consisted of two track and field athletes, Elliot Mujaji and Molene Muza. Mujaji is a two-time Paralympic gold medalist, having won the 100 metre T46 event in 2000 and 2004, while Muza competed in the Paralympic Games for the first time. In the days leading up to the games, the pair trained at the National University of Science and Technology in Bulawayo under coach Remigio Mumbire, however a lack of money threatened to cut the training camp short. The group planned to leave for Beijing on 28 August and arrive two days later.\n\nMujaji competed in the men's 100 and 200 metre races, and Muza in the women's javelin and shot put.\n\nMujaji was hit by hamstring problems during the 200 m final. He had to stop and went on to hobble across the finish line.\n\n"}
