{"id": "50637028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50637028", "title": "Alexander Chaffers", "text": "Alexander Chaffers\n\nAlexander Chaffers was a notorious lawyer who was a party in the scandal of Sir Travers and Lady Twiss in 1872 and was subsequently considered such a vexatious litigant that the \"Vexatious Actions Act\" was passed in 1896 to stop him.\n"}
{"id": "14260816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14260816", "title": "Ameripol", "text": "Ameripol\n\nThe Police Community of the Americas or Ameripol (Spanish: \"Comunidad de Policías de América\") is a hemispheric mechanism of cooperation police organization created in 2007.\n\nMission: The Police Community of the Americas - AMERIPOL is a hemispheric mechanism of cooperation, which purpose is to promote and enhance police cooperation in terms of technical-scientific facts, training, exchange of information and progress in terms of legal assistance to guide strategic and operational work against threats to public and citizen safety.\n\nVision: For the year 2015, the Police Community of the Americas - AMERIPOL will be constituted as an excellent organism of Police cooperation for the joint deployment of strategies against organized crime and transnational crime in the Americas, supported in this work from every police force and homologous institution, thereby ensuring calmness to citizens.\n\nRepresentatives of 18 countries formalized the creation of Ameripol on 14 November 2007 in Bogotá, Colombia.\n\nBKA (Oficina Federal de Investigación Criminal de Alemania) Royal Canadian Mounted Police CLACIP (Comunidad Latinoamérica y del Caribe de Inteligencia Policial (Comisión de Jefes/as, Directores/as de Policía de Centroamérica, México, el Caribe y Colombia) National Police Corps of Spain Civil Guard (Spain)Europol (Oficina de Policía de Europa)Guardia di FinanzaInternational Association of Chiefs of PoliceCarabinieriDirección Central del Servicio Antidrogas de ItaliaOrganization of American StatesInterpolRSS (Sistema de Seguridad Regional)Ministerio del Interior de FranciaCuerpo de Servicios Policiales de HolandaPolicía Nacional de SueciaPolícia de Segurança PúblicaCenter for Research and National Security\nPolicía Principat d'Andorra\n\nExecutive Secretaries:\n\nPresident:\n\n"}
{"id": "38554212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38554212", "title": "Bananabay II", "text": "Bananabay II\n\nBananabay II (case reference: I ZR125/07), also known as Eis.de, is a 2011 decision of the Federal Court of Justice of Germany (BGH) relating to keyword advertising.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5746596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5746596", "title": "Bankruptcy remote", "text": "Bankruptcy remote\n\nA bankruptcy remote company is a company within a corporate group whose bankruptcy has as little economic impact as possible on other entities within the group. A bankruptcy remote company is often a single-purpose entity.\n\nIn practice, due to the concept of limited liability, most companies in developed legal systems will be \"de facto\" bankruptcy remote from other members of the group (except in limited circumstances where creditors are permitted to pierce the corporate veil). However, in financial structuring, references to bankruptcy remoteness usually imply additional steps being taken to protect group members from attendant liability, such as by using an orphan structure to remove the legal ownership of the bankruptcy remote vehicle from the group, whilst retaining the economic benefits of it. Such structures are used where the vehicle's activities may give liability to the group as a whole, for example, under certain environmental protection legislation, or in relation to tax liabilities in certain countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "794946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794946", "title": "Beth din", "text": "Beth din\n\nA beth din ( \"Bet Din\", \"house of judgement\" , beis din) is a rabbinical court of Judaism. In ancient times, it was the building block of the legal system in the Biblical Land of Israel. Today, it is invested with legal powers in a number of religious matters (din Torah, \"matter of litigation\", plural dinei Torah) both in Israel and in Jewish communities in the Diaspora, where its judgments hold varying degrees of authority (depending upon the jurisdiction and subject matter) in matters specifically related to Jewish religious life.\n\nCommentators point out that the first suggestion in the Torah that the ruler divest his legal powers and delegate his power of judgment to lower courts was made by Jethro to Moses (Exodus ). This situation was formalised later when God gave the explicit command to \"establish judges and officers in your gates\" (Deuteronomy ).\n\nThere were three types of courts (Mishnah, tractate \"Sanhedrin\" 1:1-4 and 1:6):\nParticipation in these courts required the classical \"semicha\", the transmission of judicial authority in an unbroken line down from Moses. Since the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem in 70 CE, or at the latest the abolition of the position of Nasi in 425 CE, the transmission of \"semicha\" has been suspended. Attempts in the 16th century to reinstate the \"semicha\" were unsuccessful; Rabbi Yosef Karo was one of the recipients of this \"semicha\".\n\nThe Mishnah and Talmud distinguish between ritual or criminal matters and monetary matters (\"issurim\" and \"mamonoth\") and impose different regulations for them, with criminal cases generally having much more stringent limitations. Courts ruled in both kinds of cases. Any question that could not be resolved by a smaller court was passed up to a higher court. If the Sanhedrin was still uncertain, divine opinion was sought through the \"Urim ve-Tumim\" (the parchment in the High Priest's breastplate, which was inscribed with the Name of God and could give supernatural clues).\n\nGiven the suspension of \"semicha\", any beth din existing in medieval or modern times is in theory a court of laymen, acting as arbitrators. In practice they are given greater powers than this by the local \"takkanot ha-kahal\" (community regulations), and are generally composed of experienced rabbis. Modern training institutes, especially in Israel, confer a qualification of \"dayan\" (religious judge) which is superior to the normal rabbinical qualification.\n\nEven though normally an Orthodox beth din requires a minimum of three Jews knowledgeable and observant of Halakha (Jewish Law), in new communities and exigencies, providing a thorough search has proved unfruitful, \"halakhah\" provides that even one Orthodox Jew can establish a beth din, since every Orthodox community is required to establish its own beth din.\n\nIn Orthodox Judaism, a \"beth din\" consists of three observant Jewish men, at least one of whom is widely knowledgeable in Jewish law (halakha), to be capable of instructing the other members in any matters of halakha relevant to the case being heard. In progressive communities, women may serve on the \"beth din\" as well.\n\nIn practice, a permanent \"beth din\" will consist of three rabbis, while a \"beth din\" for an occasional matter (such as handling religious vows) need not consist of rabbis. A \"beth din\" which handles cases involving complex monetary issues or large community organizations requires \"judges\" (\"dayanim\", singular: \"dayan\"), who require an additional \"semicha\" (\"yadin yadin\") which enables them to participate in such a \"beth din\" and adjudicate complex cases involving highly technical points of law.\n\nA \"Beth Din\" is required or preferred for the following matters:\n\nA \"beth din\" is sometimes used within the Orthodox Jewish community to resolve civil disputes, with the Shulkhan Arukh calling for civil cases being resolved by religious instead of secular courts (\"arka'oth\"). Modern Western societies increasingly permit civil disputes to be resolved by private arbitration, enabling religious Jews to enter into agreements providing for arbitration by a particular \"beth din\" in the event of a dispute. By this device, the rules, procedures, and judgment of the \"beth din\" are accepted and can be enforced by secular courts in the same manner as those of a secular arbitration association. For example, in a 2018 decision, the Court of Appeal in Ontario, Canada, enforced an arbitration decision by the New York rabbinical court tribunal Beth Din (or Bais Din) of Mechon L’Hoyroa, in Brooklyn. However, the decisions of religious courts cannot be binding without the prior agreement of both parties, and will otherwise act only as mediation. \n\nA large \"beth din\" may have the following officers:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22970899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22970899", "title": "Brazilian Resolution", "text": "Brazilian Resolution\n\nThe Brazilian resolution was presented to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations in 2003.\nThe resolution covered human rights and sexual orientation. E/CN.4/2003/L.92*\nIt came under the Commission on Human Rights, fifty-ninth session, item 17 on the agenda.\n\nDiscussion of the resolution was postponed in 2004 because it was felt that it would not be passed. A formal UN declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity was discussed in the General Assembly on 18 December 2008.\n\nThe draft resolution was backed by Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe resolution reaffirmed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It affirmed the equal and inalienable rights of all people, that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights affirms the principle of the inadmissibility of discrimination, and that human rights education is a key to changing attitudes and behaviour and to promoting respect for diversity in societies.\n\nThe resolution featured the following six statements\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5994218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5994218", "title": "Breach of confidence", "text": "Breach of confidence\n\nThe tort of breach of confidence is, in United States law, a common law tort that protects private information that is conveyed in confidence. A claim for breach of confidence typically requires the information to be of a confidential nature, which was communicated in confidence and was disclosed to the detriment of the claimant.\n\nEstablishing a breach of confidentiality depends on proving the existence and breach of a duty of confidentiality. Courts in the US look at the nature of the relationship between the parties. Most commonly, breach of confidentiality applies to the patient-physician relationship but it can also apply to relationships involving banks, hospitals, and insurance companies and many others.\n\nThere is no tort of breach of confidence in other common law jurisdictions such as the United Kingdom or Australia, however, there is an equitable doctrine of breach of confidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14385112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14385112", "title": "Children and Young Persons Act 1933", "text": "Children and Young Persons Act 1933\n\nThe Children and Young Persons Act 1933 (23 & 24 Geo.5 c.12) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It consolidated all existing child protection legislation for England and Wales into one act. It was preceded by the Children and Young Persons Act 1920 and the Children Act 1908. It is modified by the Children and Young Persons Act 1963, the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 and the Children and Young Persons Act 2008.\n\nThe Children and Young Persons Act 1933 raised the minimum age for execution to eighteen, raised the age of criminal responsibility from seven to eight, included guidelines on the employment of school-age children, set a minimum working age of fourteen, and made it illegal for adults to sell cigarettes or other tobacco products to children. The act is worded to ensure that adults and not children are responsible for enforcing it.\n\nThe act was passed a year after the Children and Young Persons Act 1932 broadened the powers of juvenile courts and introduced supervision orders for children at risk.\n\nSome sections of the act concerning the employment of children are still in force today.\n\nS39. and 49 of the Act remains in everyday use in order to protect the identity of juvenile defendants appearing in Courts in England and Wales.\n\nSections 39 and 49 are used to protect the identity of children and young people who appear in court as witnesses, victims and suspects. Journalists may not give the following about the accused:\n\nThe differences between the sections are that Section 39 is discretionary, but section 49 is automatically given in the youth courts. However, it can be waived in the following circumstances:\n\n\nThese only apply once proceedings are activated by an arrest or a summons issued.\n"}
{"id": "3742318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3742318", "title": "Common Peace", "text": "Common Peace\n\nThe idea of the Common Peace (Κοινὴ Εἰρήνη, \"Koinē Eirēnē\") was one of the most influential concepts of 4th century BC Greek political thought, along with the idea of Panhellenism. The term described both the concept of a desirable, permanent peace between the Greek city-states (poleis) and a sort of peace treaty which fulfilled the three fundamental criteria of this concept: it had to include all the Greek city-states, it had to recognise the autonomy and equality of all city states without regard for their military power, and it had to be intended to remain in force permanently.\n\nThe advocates of the Common Peace saw it as a way to end the endemic warfare which engulfed the Greek \"poleis\" from the outbreak of the Peloponnesian War in 431 BC. From the King's Peace of 387/6 BC down to the foundation of the League of Corinth in 338 BC, the idea of the Common Peace influenced all peace treaties between Greek \"poleis\". In the end, however, it turned out that only a strong hegemonic power could maintain a comprehensive peace for long. In modern times, the concept has been revived and in the 20th century, the principle of the Common Peace was a foundation stone of international organisations like the League of Nations and the United Nations.\n\nThe idea of the Common Peace developed out of older ideas which had gradually taken form in the political interactions of the 5th century BC in Greece. Its temporary enforcement however owes less to the realisation of the need for a permanent peace, than to the fact that it seemed to serve the interests of several successive hegemonic powers. The history of the Common Peace is therefore not only part of the history of ideas, but also of the diplomatic history of Greece in the decades between the Peloponnesian War and the arrival of king Philip II of Macedon and Alexander the Great.\n\nThe Greek word \"Eirene\", which originally only signified a 'state of peace', developed the related meaning of 'peace agreement' at the beginning of the 4th century BC. This was a consequence of a change in attitudes to war and peace more generally. Already in the 5th century BC, wars between Greek \"poleis\" were ended with treaties, which were known as \"spondai\" (σπονδαί), \"synthekai\" (συνθήκαι) or \"dialyseis polemou\" (διάλυσεις πολέμου). All these terms ultimately only indicated a truce or temporary break from war. But as a result of the unending warfare from the middle of that century, the idea gradually developed that a state of peace rather than war should be the normal state of international affairs. This is reflected in the increased prominence of the term \"Eirene\" and in its use as a term for peace treaties.\n\nThe term 'Common Peace' was first used in 391 BC, in reference to the failed negotiations between Athens and Sparta to end the Corinthian War. The Athenian politician Andocides advised his fellow citizens in a speech for the acceptance of a settlement which he called \"koine eirene\". Possibly the term had already come into general parlance before this, but this speech is the first attestation. The first treaty in which the terms \"eirene\" and \"koine eirene\" were actually used was the 'King's Peace' imposed by the Spartans and Persians in 387/6 BC. The phrase \"koine eirene\" only appears in an official document for the first time in the peace treaty made after the Battle of Mantinea in 362 BC.\n\nGenerally, the term \"koine eirene\" is only sparsely attested in contemporary sources. Authors like Isocrates, Demosthenes and Xenophon do not use it at all. But they do refer to its essential characteristics for each of the peace treaties which the 1st century BC historian Diodorus consistently refers to as a \"koine eirene\". The fact that Diodorus based his account of the period from 386 to 361 on the contemporary author Ephorus makes it very likely that the term was in general use at the time. It also appears in mid-4th century BC inscription from Argos, known as the Reply to the Satraps, whose exact date and circumstances are unclear. \n\nIn the speech of Andocides and the provisions of the King's Peace two characteristics are revealed which were new for peace treaties at this time. One of these was that all Greek \"poleis\" (with a few exceptions) were to be autonomous. The other was that each of these draft treaties were sent to all \"poleis\". Peace is therefore no longer presented as a bilateral agreement between two formerly hostile \"poleis\" or leagues, but as a multilateral treaty, which would also encompass all the parties that were not involved in the conflict, as far as possible.\n\nA third characteristic is not explicitly mentioned but can be inferred from the absence of set time limit. In the 5th century, it was the norm for peace treaties to have a specified period of validity. The Thirty Years' Peace of 446/5 BC between Athens and Sparta was named for the period of time it was expected to last. The Peace of Nicias of 421 BC was meant to last for fifty years, while treaties with a set period of one hundred years were practically intended to last forever. This derives from the idea that peace was not being made between the states as such, but rather between their populations, and thus the longest possible period of time that a treaty could last was the lifetime of a single generation - which could only make agreements for itself, not its descendants. By contrast, a \"koine eirene\" was in principle designed to endure forever. Although this was not actually explicitly stated in the treaties, it is clear from the internal logic of the autonomy clauses, since an independence with chronological limits would not be independence.\n\nThe bilateral peace treaties of the 5th century BC between Athens and Sparta largely ignored the interests of other parties - including their own allies, who were not even consulted. Even the treaty of 404 BC, which ended the Peloponnesian War and was in practice a diktat from the Spartan side, was formally a treaty between Sparta and Athens. It did not contain any terms regarding the allies of Athens in the Delian League and was actually concluded despite the opposition of the Spartans' allies. The treaty therefore entirely reflects the conditions and ideas of the 5th century, in which there were only two major hegemonic powers in Greece, to which all other \"poleis\" were subordinated.\n\nThe idea of a multilateral panhellenic agreement was not actually new, however. After the defeat of Xerxes' invasion, a general peace had been concluded in 481, although it was temporary. In 450 BC, Pericles is reported to have desired to convene a general peace conference in Athens. It is reported that the refusal of the Spartans to participate on account of their fear of Athenian hegemony meant that it never actually took place. Apart from some multilateral treaties between individual \"poleis\" in Sicily and Ionia, the religious association of the Amphictyonic League was the only multilateral agreement of ancient Greece which was enduring and significant. The Amphictyonic oath forswore the destruction of member states in war or the removal of their water. \"Poleis\" that broke this oath would themselves be threatened with destruction. This might be a forerunner of the \"koine eirene\".\n\nThat it became ever more common to make peace treaties on the basis of a \"koine eirene\" after 387 BC had a practical aspect. The successive hegemonial powers were not individual \"poleis\", but several opposing \"poleis\" or leagues of roughly equal strength. With them, peace was only possible if all agreed together. For the general acceptance of such a multilateral agreement, the autonomy clause was the first requirement.\n\nThe Greek term \"autonomia\" signified the right and ability of the citizens of a \"polis\" to use their own legal system or \"nomos\" (νόμος) and to be free from all submission to other \"poleis\". Since the \"polis\" had become the characteristic form of the state in Greece, there was an unwritten law in their relationships with one another that each of them - even the most insignificant ones - should be autonomous. The only exceptions to this were the small cities of Attica and Laconia, which hadlong been completely integrated into the Athenian and Spartan \"poleis\". It was a source of substantial tension in the 4th century, when the Thebans attempted to incorporate the cities of Boeotia into a single \"polis\" in the same way.\n\nFollowing the Persian Wars, however, the willingness to form leagues, called \"koina\" or \"symmachiai\" under the leadership of a hegemonic power or \"hegemon\" increased. These were entered into voluntarily, so that the principle of autonomy was theoretically not infringed. But as the Persian threat declined in significance, it seemed that the Athenians wished to convert the Delian League which they controlled into a naval empire which they ruled. Thus the Athenians violated the foundations of \"autonomia\": the freedom of \"poleis\" to live under their own political systems, to be free of garrisons, cleruchies, external legal jurisdiction, and tribute. The introduction of \"phoros\" (φόρος, i.e. contributions for military purposes), the relocation of league's treasury from Delos to Athens and the forced introduction of democratic constitutions based on the Athenian model in some members of the league all seemed to violate the principle of \"autonomia\".\n\nThe Spartans, whose Peloponnesian League was comparatively loosely organised, began to use the demand for \"autonomia\" as a diplomatic means to weaken the Athenian league from the middle of the 5th century BC. The took up the complaints of the Athenians' allies as their own: during and after the Peloponnesian War, the Spartans presented themselves as the protectors of the freedom of all Greek states. Thus the autonomy clause was not only a key component of every Common Peace because smaller \"poleis\" saw it as a way to ensure their independence, but also and more importantly because larger powers could use it to advance their own interests.\n\nWhether a peace agreement was a Common Peace or not is uncertain for some treaties. In the following, a wide definition is used in order to make the development of the idea of the Common Peace clear. Criteria for inclusion are the autonomy clause and the permission for all Greek poleis to join, regardless of whether that option was actually taken up.\n\nIn 392/1 BC, in the course of the Corinthian War, Sparta submitted an initial peace offer to the Persian satrap of Lydia, Tiribazus. The Spartans were under pressure to extract themselves from their hopeless war in Asia Minor and simultaneously reassert their military supremacy in mainland Greece. For this it was necessary, firstly, to concede Persian control of the Greek cities of Ionia, and, secondly, to end the Persians' alliances with the Greek opponents of Sparta, especially Athens. Simultaneously, the Great King needed to be convinced that no new Greek power would form in the Aegean which might challenge Persian control of the Ionian cities.\n\nThe agreement that would solve all these problems was that Sparta and Persia would guarantee the autonomy of all Greek states (exceptthose in Asia Minor). The Spartans would then have been able to point to the protection of a generally recognised principle as the outcome of the war. At the same time, this would allow the Spartans to split the Greek world into a number of weak individual states, ensuring the Spartan hegemony and satisfying the Persian desire for security. The Greek city-states naturally rejected the treaty out of hand. The Persian king Artaxerxes II was also inclined to reject it. He recalled Tiribazus and replaced him with a new satrap, Struthas, who strengthened the Persian alliance with Athens.\n\nA few months later, the Spartans attempted to come to terms with their Greek enemies in a conference in their own city. Once more, they made the autonomy principle the basis of any agreement, this time with concessions to Athens and Thebes. The Athenians would have retained the islands of Lemnos, Imbros, and Skyros, while the Thebans' possession of Orchomenus would have been recognised.\n\nIt was during these negotiations that the formula of a 'Common Peace' for all Greeks was first used. The Athenian orator Andocides used it in a speech, in which he vainly urged his countrymen to accept the Spartan offer:\n\nAndokides makes a distinction between treaties and a real peace. He invoked the panhellenic ideal, while idealising the project of the common peace. As he did this, however, he omitted the fact that the Ionian cities for whose freedom Athens had gone to war with Persia some hundred years earlier, would be abandoned as a result of this treaty. In the end the Athenians rejected the treaty because of this (and because after their alliance with Struthas, they believed they were in a stronger position).\n\nThe successes of the Athenian fleet in 390 BC, however, led to a reevaluation at the Persian court, which did not want the Athenians to get too strong. Struthas was replaced two years later by his predecessor Tiribazus, who negotiated a peace with the Spartan envoy Antalcidas. The resulting agreement, known as the 'Peace of Antalcidas' or the 'King's Peace' essentially accepted the Spartan proposals of 392/1. The most important terms were the inclusion of all Greek states and the guarantee of their freedom and autonomy. Only the Ionian cities, Cyprus and Clazomenae, which remained under Persian control, and the three aforementioned islands under Athenian rule were excluded. The Athenians had to surrender all other possessions and the dissolution of all leagues was the unavoidable consequence of the treaty. The key passage comes from Xenophon, whose Hellenica is the most important source for this period:\nMost scholars see the Peace of Antalcidas as the first example of a common peace. Hermann Bengtson viewed the common peace as a side-effect of the treaty, which was originally only a decree of the Great King (from which it derives its name). The Spartans were appointed as guardians (\"prostatai\") of the peace, with the power to interpret and enforce its provisions. All the Greek states swore to abide by this decree at Sparta - in light of the Great King's threat to go to war with anyone who refused to do so. This fact and the aforementioned exceptions show that a common peace was not fully achieved. Nor would one be achieved subsequently. While the autonomy and the inclusion of all cities was guaranteed, they were entirely dependent on the interests of those same powers which initiated and guaranteed the common peace.\n\nArtaxerxes did not intend to provide Greece with an enduring peace, but to divide and weaken it politically. The Spartans displayed a desire for peace, but also a wish to ensure their own hegemony. The Spartan interpretation of autonomy required the dissolution of all leagues except their own Peloponnesian League, since this was not unified or centrally organised, but instead was a system of bilateral treaties which the Spartans had made with each individual member. In the Spartan view, bilateral treaties between individual states were not included in the ban on leagues controlled by a hegemonic power, although in practice this is exactly what the Peloponnesian League was.\n\nTherefore, the Spartans remained the strongest military power in Greece. Under the pretext of protecting the autonomy principle, they maintained a hegemonic position over the next few years which greatly abused the autonomy of other states, such as the Chalcidian League and the city of Mantinea.\n\nIn 382 BC, the Spartans seized the Cadmea, the citadel of Thebes, whose increasing strength was a thorn in their side. This act costed them the rest of their credit as protectors of autonomy and led to the Boeotian War with the Thebans and their Athenian allies. In the course of this, in spring 377 BC, the Second Athenian Confederacy was established. This league represented a violation of the clauses of the Peace of Antalcidas. But it is possible that a majority of the Aegean islands and coastal states now saw Athens as a better advocate of the principle of autonomy, as a result of their support for the Thebans. The league treaty was explicitly concluded:\nThe Athenians had thus taken clever advantage of the situation and the restoration of the naval confederacy clearly brought with it the undertaking to maintain the King's Peace. It had taken less than thirty years of Spartan hegemony to reverse attitudes on the Athenian empire. The first league had been presented as a threat to autonomy, but the second was claimed to be its protector. In order to prevent the Athenians from reassuming a hegemonic position, the new league was organised in accordance with the principles of the common peace. This is a sign that these principles were generally accepted by this time.\n\nWhen the war with Sparta stagnated in 375 BC, the a willingness to make peace developed in Sparta and Athens. The Spartans could no longer hope for a victory and the Athenians had achieved their goals: the freedom of Thebes from Spartan control and the recognition of the sea league as compatible with the terms of the Peace of Antalcidas. Diodorus reports an embassy of the Great King came to secure a renewal of the peace, since the Persians needed peace in Greece in order to free the mercenaries up for a war they wanted to undertake in Egypt. The Greek states accepted the agreement and the Common Peace was renewed.\n\nAt this point, the Common Peace was extended in one respect: as already foreseen in the terms of the Second Athenian Confederacy, it was required that all foreign garrisons be removed from all cities. This was directed particularly at the Spartans who had garrisons in some south Boeotian cities, such as Thespiae (actually at their request, as protection against the Thebans). The Thebans were thus the main beneficiaries of the Common Peace of 375. The Spartans had begun the war on the same grounds that the Athenians now wished to end it: to prevent the further growth of Theban power. However, in the end the departure of the Spartan troops on the pretext of the autonomy principle left the Thebans with a free hand in Boeotia. Even so, the Athenians were clearly on the winning side: their success lay in the recognition of a new confederacy. Neither the Spartans nor the Persians could do anything about this, as they had done ten years earlier.\n\nDespite the Persian diplomatic involvement, the Common Peace of 375 can be seen as the first which derived principally from Greek initiative and in which all parties were of roughly equal strength and thus received equal terms. For the first time, a peaceful system seemed to be possible without enforcement by a hegemonic power.\n\nTwo opposing political groups had already developed in Athens before the treaty of 375 BC: one sought an agreement with Sparta, the other a strengthening of the alliance with Thebes. However, the anti-Spartan forces over-estimated Athens' position after the peace and supported a democratic insurgency against the government of the island of Corcyra, which was allied with Sparta. Thus the Spartans, who were anything but satisfied with the result of the preceding clashes, already had grounds to go back to war a year and a half after the peace. At the same time, the situation was further complicated by the fact that Thebes destroyed the city of Plataea in 374/3 BC, which had an ancient alliance with Athens and had also been allied with Sparta since 380 BC. The Spartans therefore sent troops to Phokis, to threaten Thebes and undo the failures of the preceding years. Thus, 371 BC once more saw the outbreak of a general conflict.\n\nIn Athens, however, the moderate politicians considered the best outcome for their city to lie in a policy of neutrality and proposed a new common peace. To support Thebes would decisively strengthen their position. Support of Sparta, on the other hand, would have alarmed their allies, who say them as a threat to their right to autonomy. Further factors were also relevant: if the Spartans refused the proposed league, the Athenians would have been forced to fight two wars at once. Therefore, the Athenians decided to overlook the fate of Plataea and invited the Thebans to a peace conference in Sparta. The Spartans were even more willing to make peace now, since their actions in Phocis had been unsuccessful. Threatening Thebes thus became unlikely, but the Spartans did not consider themselves to be in any danger.\n\nThe common peace which was now proposed at the initiative of the Athenians, again saw critical innovation. The Athenian interpretation of autonomy prevailed and according to Xenophon, the Spartans committed to removing all their harmosts from cities of the peace. This was a difficult situation, since after 375 BC, only the cities in the Peloponnese (Sparta's chief area of influence) were relevant. Even more important for the continued development of idea of peace were rules which provided for all sides to demobilise their troops and fleets and which allowed the treaty partners to help one another in the event of an attack. The final clause, which did not impose a duty to help, was included at Athenian request. They intended to use it later to maintain the possibility of holding the balance of power between the other two powers.\n\nConsidered in isolation, this peace treaty could be taken as a skilled piece of Athenian diplomacy. But since it never actually came into effect, it can only be speculated whether it could have formed the basis of an enduring peace. After all, the treaty partners had taken account of the idea that sufficient force needed to be made available for use against potential treaty breakers in order to maintain the peace. In the Peace of Antalcidas, this had been accomplished by the threat of the Great King. In an agreement between free states, it had to be an agreement to oppose an attack on a treaty partner together.\n\nAt the planned swearing of the treaty, however, a serious rift arose between Thebes and Sparta. The Theban envoys had initially sworn to the agreement in the name of their own city and allowed that name to be placed on the treaty. But the next day, they demanded that the name of Thebes be replaced with that of the Boeotian League, since they claimed to be entitled to represent it. The Spartans categorically rejected this, since in their view the Boeotian cities ought to be autonomous. The split led to war and only twenty days later, the Battle of Leuctra took place, which proved to be the first Spartan defeat in open battle and decisively altered the balance of power in Greece in Thebes' favour.\n\nAfter the battle, military activity ceased. At first, the Thebans undertook no further military action against the Spartans, who eventually sent troops to the Isthmus of Corinth to ward off any chance of a Theban attack on the Peloponnese. In this situation, the Athenians seized the initiative and called a peace conference, at which they could swear to the common peace once more and negotiate a new treaty. This was motivated by the desire to prevent further increase in Theban power. An innovation in this new peace treaty was that the possibility of aiding a treaty partner in attacking a disturber of the peace was transformed into a duty. This was a logical development of the previous failed peace and was found at the start of all future common peace treaties. Some researchers see the second treaty of 371 as the foundation of a military alliance (\"symmachia\"), as a result of this duty to intervene.\n\nThe Spartans joined this new agreement immediately for their own sake. Their neighbours, the Eleans had already sought to take advantage of the defeat of Sparta in the meanwhile and they refused to recognise the autonomy of some of their border cities, which they had given up in 399 BC under Spartan compulsion, but had retaken after Leuctra. Fatally, the Thebans did not agree to the treaty, since a common peace was inconsistent with their ambitions for their newly won hegemony. H. Bengtson saw this common peace as nothing more than an Athenian \"gesture against Thebes, without practical value.\"\n\nIf the idea of the Common Peace had any chance to be based on equal rights for all states, it was in the short period between 375 BC and the Battle of Leuctra. Only then were there three Greek powers of roughly equal strength such that the strongest could be controlled by an alliance of the other two. Before and after this there was a clearly dominant hegemonic power (first Sparta, then Thebes) which either sought to use the common peace for their own purposes or rejected it altogether. Both approaches led to further military conflict. With the failure of the negotiations of 371 BC, the concept of the common peace largely lost credence as part of a practical policy.\n\nIn the year after Leuctra, the Thebans clearly established their hegemony. Through a campaign into the Peloponnese, they established the independence of the Messenians, who had been ruled by the Spartans for centuries, and supported the establishment of the Arcadian League. A further war against an alliance of Sparta, Athens and Dionysius I of Syracuse proved inconclusive. Thus in 369/8 BC, all the Greek states responded to the call to meet in a peace conference at Delphi, issued by Ariobarzanes, the satrap of Phrygia. However, the negotiations foundered in the face of the Spartans' refusal to accept Messenian independence - a position which was supported by the Athenians and by the Persian representative, Philiscus. Since Ariobarzanes went into rebellion against the Great King a little later, it is not entirely clear whether he was acting on the king's orders or in accordance with his own interests.\n\nIn the course of further clashes, Dionysius II of Syracuse withdrew his aid from the Spartans, leading them to turn to the Persians for assistance once more. Thus, in 367/6 BC, Greek envoyse to the court of the Great king engaged in what the ancient historian Karl Julius Beloch referred to as the \"Wettkriechen\" (wager-creep), in which the Theban Pelopidas was ultimately successful. The Persians now recognised Thebes as the organising power in Greece in the same way that they had recognised Sparta in the King's Peace twenty years earlier. Henceforth, the Messenians were to be independent from Sparta and Amphipolis from Athens, while the Eleans were granted the neighbouring area of Triphylia. Furthermore, all armies and the fleet of the Athenians were to be reduced in size.\n\nThis attempt at a common peace was rejected by Sparta and Athens. The Thebans did not manage to enthuse other city-states with the agreement either. These two attempts at a common peace under Theban hegemony represent a return to the idea of peace presented in 387 BC: the Persians attempted to use the influence of a Greek hegemonic power to force a common peace. That both attempts, unlike the King's Peace, were rejected is a result of the fact that the Great King had lost power as a peacebroker, as a result of the revolt of Ariobarzanes and other satraps. The most important reason for the course of events, however, may have been the experiences of the Greek cities with Paris after the King's Peace.\n\nDue to the growing Theban pressure on Athens (such as the seizure of Oropus in 366 BC), the Athenians became hostile once more, especially when actual help from their allies failed to materialise. None of the Greek states were able to gain full dominance in the following years. The conflict arising from the split in the Arkadian League also remained unresolved. This culminated in 362 BC with the Battle of Mantinea, in which the Spartans, Athenians and their allies faced down the Thebans and their allies. After the battle, in which the foremost Theban commander Epaminondas was killed, both sides considered themselves the victors and again concluded a common peace.\n\nFor the first time, the agreement was reached neither at the instigation of one of more leading powers, nor as a result of the power of the Persian king. In this and in the refusal of the Greek states to support the Great Satraps' Revolt against the Persian king in Asia Minor, many scholars have seen a positive element. According to this viewpoint, the Greeks had managed to control themselves and establish a peace on their own. The opposing view is that the basis of this new common peace was simply the military and economic exhaustion of all parties, which also made an intervention in Asia Minor completely unthinkable. \n\nThe terms of the agreement particularly indicate that they arose from widespread war weariness and a desire to make peace as quickly as possible. They allowed each state to hold whatever they actually possessed at the time when the treaty was concluded. Territorial conflicts were not resolved at all - they no longer even posed an obstacle to agreement. The Arcadian League remained split into a northern and a southern half and the Messenians continued to be independent. Since half the land owned by the Spartans lay within Messenia, they did not accede to this common peace, but they were in no condition to carry on the war.\n\nAfter Mantinea, Greek politics continued along the same lines as before. When conflict with the rising power of Philip II of Macedon became more intense in the 350s, the idea of the Common Peace was revived once more. Philip first made the suggestion of replacing the Peace of Philocrates which had ended the Third Sacred War with a common peace. In the next few years, Demosthenes and other advocates of a decidedly anti-Macedonian approach gained preeminence in Athens. They rejected the proposal and called for war against Philip of Macedon. In 340/39 BC, the Athenians successfully brought together an alliance of Greek states, but their forces were decisively defeated by Philip at the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC.\n\nThe Macedonians reacted harshly only against the Thebans, wishing instead to take advantage of the power of Athens and the other states by means of a league. The treaty establishing this league contained an express ban on interfering in the constitutions of other states by force (essentially an autonomy clause) and general bans on conflict and piracy for the first time, as well as a guarantee of free navigation. Only the Spartans refused to join this league. The other states were to send representatives, who would meet in a synedrion (council). They then entered into a personal alliance with Philip II, making him the Hegemon of the League.\n\nTheoretically, the freedom and autonomy of the Greek state were thus assured. In practice, however, the general ban on conflict marked a striking limitation on independence. In addition, the Macedonians retained garrisons in the Cadmea of Thebes, the Acrocorinth, and at Chalcis - ostensibly to maintain the common peace.\n\nThe League of Corinth therefore marked the end of the Common Peace as the foundation for full equality between states and linked the idea of peace strongly with the guarantee of a hegemonic power once more. The alliance and the common peace were interlinked in the league treaty. The Panhellenic idea of a unified Greece and a campaign of vengeance against Persia were enabled by this Common Peace.\n\nWith 'autonomy and freedom' the Greek states at the beginning of the fourth century found a formula for a inclusive peace system which was acceptable to all sides. After 387 BC no peace was possible without it, even if the individual attempts only held for a few years each. However, the principles of the common peace also found their way into league treaties, such as the Second Athenian Sea League and the League of Corinth. A major opportunity for the development of a true Common Peace lay in the fact that the peace idea proved flexible enough to be developed further in this way.\n\nScholars like Bengtson take the view that the Greek city states did not have enough time before the establishment of the Macedonian hegemony, to fully adopt the Common Peace as an instrument of peace and as the foundations of a new order in the Greek world. The best chance for an enduring peace on the basis of equality between city states was probably missed with the failure of the Common Peace of 371 BC. Nine years later, after the Battle of Mantinea, a Common Peace was seen only as a compromise solution. The revival of the concept by Philip of Macedon was undertaken only in the interests of Macedonian power, as it had previously been used to support the interests of Persia, Sparta, Athens, and Thebes.\n\nA major aspect of the failure of the Common Peace lay in the formulation of the concept itself, especially the broad interpretation of the autonomy clause. The mutual control of Greek states by one another was only possible at the beginning of the fourth century. The idea that any limitations of the ability to wage war were restrictions on freedom and autonomy made any system of peace almost certain to fail.\n\nThe leaders of the city-states were aware that good will alone was not enough to guarantee a Common Peace. Depending on the political situation, they developed mechanisms of enforcement to prevent disturbances of the peace. They gradually came to the conclusion that a common peace on the basis of equal rights for all states was only possible if all participants were to immediately come to the aid of any member of the alliance under attack. This assumed a roughly equal balance of power between the Greek states, which actually only existed for a short period between 375 BC and the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC. Before and after these dates, a Common Peace would only have had a chance if a strong guaranteeing power was prepared to provide military support to the agreement as necessary.\n\nThe principles of the Common Peace developed by the Greeks in the fourth century BC, only developed once more in Europe in the 17th century when they became the basis for enduring peace agreements and systems. Thus, the Peace of Westphalia was the first European peace agreement in modern times to be based on priniciples of the equality of sovereign states and on the inviolability of their internal affairs - that is, on the idea of autonomy. In his work \"\" of 1795, Immanuel Kant went one step further. He advocated not only the principle of non-intervention, but also called for a \"Volkerbund\" (People's league). In order to end the lawless natural situation between states, this would establish a federal relationship between them, in a manner similar to the common peace proposed after the Battle of Leuctra. Kant's ideas were appealed to in the twentieth century by the founders of the League of Nations and the United Nations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1436510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436510", "title": "Commonwealth Law Reports", "text": "Commonwealth Law Reports\n\nThe Commonwealth Law Reports (CLR) () are the authorised reports of decisions of the High Court of Australia. The Commonwealth Law Reports are published by the Lawbook Company, a division of Thomson Reuters. James Merralls AM QC was the editor of the Reports from 1969 until his death in 2016.\n\nEach reported judgment includes a headnote written by an expert reporter which, as an authorised report, has been approved by the High Court. The headnotes include a summary of counsel's legal arguments. The Reports also include tables of cases reported, affirmed, reversed, overruled, applied or judicially commented on and cited.\n\nThe Reports are available in PDF format from Westlaw AU.\n\nFor lawyers, the Commonwealth Law Reports are the preferred source for decisions of the High Court of Australia. An example of proper citation is:\n\nThis citation indicates that the decision of the Court in the case entitled \"Coleman v Power\", decided in 2004, can be found beginning at page 1 of volume 220 of the Commonwealth Law Reports.\n\nAn alternative citation, which is medium neutral, is:\n\nThis citation refers to the case entitled \"Coleman v Power\", which was the 39th decision published by the High Court of Australia in 2004.\n\nBoth forms of citation (parallel citations) may be used so that users can access the case from different sources:\n\n"}
{"id": "3181796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3181796", "title": "Conflict of marriage laws", "text": "Conflict of marriage laws\n\nConflict of marriage laws is the conflict of laws with respect to marriage in different jurisdictions. When marriage-related issues arise between couples with diverse backgrounds, questions as to which legal systems and norms should be applied to the relationship naturally follow with various potentially applicable systems frequently conflicting with one another.\n\nThe standard choice of law rules for adjudicating on issues relating to marriage represent a balance between the various public policies of the laws involved:\n\nStatus and capacity are defined by the personal laws of the parties, namely:\n\n\nThe personal laws will usually define status in rem so that it is recognised wherever the individual may travel subject only to significant public policy limits. Hence, for example, as an aspect of \"parens patriae\", a state will define the age at which a person may marry. If such a limitation could simply be evaded by the young person traveling abroad on a holiday to a country with a lower age limit, this would clearly breach the policy of the \"parental\" state. The same principle would apply to an adult who wished to create a polygamous marriage or to evade a restriction on consanguinity. In Family Law as opposed to the Law of Contract, there is also a strong case for legal capacity to be universally enforced to limit to ability of individuals to evade normally mandatory rules. The claims of the \"lex loci celebrationis\" to apply are weak given that the significance of the location may be no more than the convenience of their laws to those wishing to marry.\n\n\nThe \"lex fori,\" or proper jurisdiction to adjudicate legal disputes, will usually be the state where the spouses have sought to make their matrimonial home. This state will usually have a clear and direct interest in the applications of its policies to regulate the nature of relationships permitted to confer the status of husband and wife within their territorial boundaries. It may also attempt to regulate the behavior of those who wish to cohabit within their territory although this may contravene privacy rights.\n\nWhere worshippers wish to marry according to the tenets of their religion, the state must decide whether that ceremony will be effective to create a valid marriage. For example, the government may decide whether a clergy has sufficient authority to declare marriage or whether a civil ceremony will be required. Alternatively, certain governments only consider a civil marriage celebration as legally binding and regard the religious ceremony as a \"confirmation\" of the civil marriage.\n\nIn Islam, marriage is a contract between the bride and groom (or their proxies) known as a \"nikah\". Some Islamic couples only go through a \"nikah\" ceremony and do not register the marriage with the civil authorities or go through a civil ceremony. When such a relationship breaks down, the wife is left without state protection that would normally be available if the marriage had been registered according to civil law. The situation is exacerbated if the husband refuses to grant a talaq and also refuses to make any provision. In states where there is no Sharia Court, the affected individuals' only recourse would be to the local civil courts, but jurisdiction would be difficult to invoke except under the parens patriae provisions to protect the best interests of any children. As to transnational marriages, there is no reason in principle why religious ceremonies effective under the \"lex loci celebrationis\" should not create marriages recognized as valid everywhere.\n\nIn many states, culturally separate communities have retained their own traditions. A developing modern state had to determine whether it should recognize such traditions as it was establishing a centralized system of law. In South Africa, for example, the \"Recognition of Customary Marriages Act\" 1999 retrospectively recognizes as valid all customary marriages so long as they are registered. Further, s2(3) of the Act provides that, if a person has entered into more than one customary law marriage, all valid marriages entered into before the commencement of the Act, are recognized. The Act similarly recognizes all customary marriages entered into after the commencement of the Act where the High Court approves a written contract regulating the future matrimonial property systems for marriages (both present and prospective spouses must be joined in the application).\n\nSuch measure represented a major shift, because custom marriages were often potentially or actually polygamous as against public policy, and were not recognized under the new law. The government reversed the position, as it realized that it was impossible to enforce the prohibition against polygamy and wives usually consented.\n\nWhere a state has produced a formal body of law to control recognition, this will establish a general framework under which international recognition can be managed. Where there is no formal rule within the \"lex loci celebrationis\", a forum court could hear expert evidence on whether the marriage would be accepted as effective (see the public policy of \"favor matrimonii\" which creates a rebuttable presumption in favor of the validity of any marriage) but it will be difficult for the parties to justify their failure to comply with the local laws that unambiguously would have created a valid marriage.\n\nIn some states, the legal acceptability of common law marriage is very limited. Some couples, whether because there are no local formalities relevant to them or because they have strongly held prejudices against compliance with the local forms, decide to create a marriage either by a simple public exchange of vows (\"per verbis inter praesentes\"), or by habit and repute. Because the need for conformity between states requires respect for the legal systems, it is now very difficult to identify states with no local system for the celebration and registration of marriages, and even more difficult for the courts of one state to justify a decision to support the prejudices of two of its citizens against the laws of the second state. However, other states permit informal marriages to acquire legal status and, where this happens, there is no reason in principle why international recognition should not follow.\n\nCanada allows married persons to retain multiple spouses in legally recognized family law, but only in one province. Saskatchewan utilizes S.51 of their Family Property Act to \"sanction and assist in the creation\" of polygamous unions. To date, that province has only allowed married women to become spouses in family property law of single men; however their Family Law Act and case laws are the only statutes and references in North America where a legal jurisdiction promotes polygamy. Common law marriages in Canada have been referred to for over forty years as a form of marriage or \"conjugal union\". Since 1999, Saskatchewan has allowed married persons to have more than one \"simultaneous\" conjugal union in family property law.\n\nIn some countries, the registration of a marriage means that it cannot later be declared invalid, since it has been accepted by the government. In Taiwan, which follows a variation of the Napoleonic Code (received by way of Japan), the presumption is that each country maintains a central registry of its citizens, including their marital status. If a Taiwan citizen marries in another country, however, this information may not find its way into the records. Many thousands of ROC soldiers who came to Taiwan in 1949 left behind wives in mainland China, but married local Taiwanese women. Since the two polities did not share records, the result was a pattern of legally recognized second marriages, despite the ban on polygamy by both sides of the Taiwan Strait. Today, foreigners wishing to marry Taiwan citizens must present letters from their countries' representative offices testifying that they are not already married. (Of course a determined bigamist might marry in some third country.) In the case of countries which lack centralized family records (such as the USA), a notarized affidavit is accepted.\n\nDifferent minimum age requirements also can lead to problems in mutual recognition of marriages. A marriage of young children is in some countries deemed to be against the ordre public, minimum ages for recognition are sometimes set (which may vary from the minimum ages for marriage itself). For example, in the United Kingdom, the Immigration Rules 1986 were introduced to bar persons under the age of 16 from entering the UK in reliance upon their status as a spouse. Nevertheless, for other purposes, such marriages will be recognized as valid so long as the parties had the relevant capacity under their personal laws and the ceremony was effective under the \"lex loci celebrationis\" to create a valid marriage.\n\nIn Western cultures, other than the age of consent, the issue of consent is also considered of fundamental importance and, if it is not freely given, it can prevent a valid marriage from ever coming into existence: see nullity. In Canada, \"common law marriages\" do not require consent to be recognized and often a stipulated \"passage of time in eligible cohabitation\" is the only requisite to becoming a formally recognized \"marriage\". The \"capacity to marry\" includes the fundamental \"a priori\" reasoning that both persons must not be married to others (the exception is Saskatchewan Canada). The only stipulation to this rule of thumb is that both partners must be eligible to marry in the first place. In Islamic law, a \"nikah\" contract is not valid if the parties do not consent, although there are differences in juristic opinion about exactly how the consent can be manifested. This supposed lack of clarity has led some Western cultures to question the general morality of \"arranged marriages\", often stigmatizing the system as being open to abuse and sometimes leading to forced marriages. In the English case of \"Szechter v Szechter\", Sir Jocelyn Simon P. said that for duress to vitiate a valid marriage, it must be proved that:\n\n\nThe test requiring an immediate danger never matched the practical realities facing individuals where the consequences of a refusal to marry might not be immediate, but nevertheless serious. In \"Hirani v Hirani\" (1982) 4 FLR 332, the Court of Appeal considered the case of a nineteen-year-old Hindu woman who was dating a Muslim man. Her parents told the petitioner that unless she married a Hindu of their choosing, she would be ostracized socially from her family and left to fend for herself. Under the circumstances, the Court agreed that the petitioner had acted without full consent in marrying her parents' choice of husband. Thus, it is for the courts of all countries to strike a balance between well-intentioned parental authority to arrange marriages in the face of a reluctant child, and unreasonable threats that would overbear the will of any reasonable person, while maintaining the trust of local communities whose cultures have included arranged marriages for centuries. As to transnational recognition, it will be difficult to disturb the validity of the marriage if no complaint of coercion was made around the time the ceremony was performed in the \"lex loci celebrationis\" or immediately the parties entered the state where proceedings were commenced. It would be more usual to use the local divorce system to terminate the relationship.\n\nIn Christian cultures, the Biblical proscriptions contained in Leviticus 18 v6–18, are used as the basis for restricting marriage between persons who are deemed to be too closely related to each other. More generally, the restrictions fall into two classes (and based on Old Testament laws):\n\n\nSeveral exceptions have been described for various Biblical figures, incestuous relationships such as Abraham and Sarah, Nachor and Melcha, Lot and his Daughters, and Amram and Jochebed.\n\nThe limitations based on consanguinity derive from a policy of practical eugenics and reflect the increased possibility that such marriages will produce children with a genetic defect due to the limitations on their combined gene pool. The limitations based on affinity, by contrast, are predominantly legal and social in origin. The rules relating to affinity reflect the need to minimise the prospects of familial jealousies and dysfunction by preventing the intermarriage of people already related by marriage. Difficult questions arise on whether an adopted child may marry his or her adoptive parents, or the natural children of the adoptive parents. No matter what legislative decisions are taken, there will always be citizens who wish to evade the application of the law. There will be no problem if they relocate and establish a matrimonial home in a state that allows their marriage. But any attempt to evade such laws by going through a ceremony in a state that permits the marriage and then returning to the original state (which will usually be their state of domicile, nationality or habitual residence) will fail, and may even expose the couple to the risk of prosecution for incest or an equivalent offense.\n\nPolygamy may be polygyny (one man having more than one wife at the same time) or polyandry (one woman having more than one husband at the same time) and it has been practiced sparsely throughout history in almost all cultures and sanctioned by various religions where necessary to meet population or economic needs. For example, when disease, war or famine has reduced populations, the taking of several wives has been the solution to restoring population. In some economically poor areas where infant mortality is high but children are a vital source of labor to maintain the earning capacity of the family, polygamy provides more children. Some states have defined marriage as the union of one man to one woman \"to the exclusion of all others\" and, in some cases, have criminalized bigamy or, as in Canada, have made polygamy an offense under the Criminal Code. Under section 293(a) of the Canadian Criminal Code, everyone who enters into any form of polygamy or any \"conjugal union with more than one person at a time\" is guilty of an offense, and under s. 293(b), there is a separate offense for any person who \"celebrates, assists or is a party to a rite that sanctions a polygamous marriage\".\n\nOther states refer to the current religious practices within their territories as the test for legal acceptability: for example, the \"Marriage Law 1974\" (no. 1/74) in Indonesia does not prohibit polygamy for those religions that allow it (i.e. Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism), but permits it with the consent of the existing wife or wives if:\n\n\nThe converse is to be found in the halakhah and the Talmud where the general principle is that, \"a woman cannot be the wife of two [men]\" (Kid. 7a and Rashi). For a wife, the term \"kiddushin\" implies her exclusive dedication to her husband and there can be no \"kiddushin\" between her and another man while the first \"kiddushin\" subsists. Any purported marriage to another man is thus formally invalid but, nevertheless, requires a \"get\" to terminate it. A married man may celebrate a second marriage (and any others) unless he has specifically undertaken to his first wife, e.g., in the \"ketubbah\", not to do so, or monogamy is the local custom. Thus, Ashkenazic Jews who live in Christian nations accepted a \"takkanah\" (a rabbinic law not deriving from the Talmud) banning polygamy in c. 1000 CE, while Sephardic Jews who live in Islamic societies have not followed this law.\n\nAt the time a secular court considers the validity of this marriage, there are already multiple spouses. In English law, for example, §2 Immigration Act 1988 prohibits certain polygamous wives from exercising their right of abode with the result that any application from such a wife has to be considered in accordance with paragraphs 278 to 280 of the Immigration Rules, which contain provisions to restrict settlement in most cases to one wife. But, for less controversial purposes, most states are willing to recognise actually polygamous marriages as valid so long as the parties had the capacity to enter into such relationships and the ceremonies were effective under the \"lex loci celebrationis\". In Canada, Ontario province recognizes polygamous marriages if they occurred in a foreign country whom Canada recognizes as permitting polygamy.\n\nIn a Chinese conception of marriage, a marriage is defined as being a relationship in which unions of various surnames are established in order to increase the lines of succession and property values. While most countries in 2015, do not recognize marriage between two people of the same sex.\n\nIn the late 20th century, rites of marriage for same-sex couples without legal recognition became increasingly common. The first law providing for marriage of people of the same sex in modern times was enacted in 2001 in the Netherlands. , same-sex marriage is legally recognized (nationwide or in some parts) in the following countries: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States and Uruguay. Polls show rising support for legally recognizing same-sex marriage in the Americas, Australia and most of Europe. United States, and Uruguay, as well as 4 states of Mexico (Mexico City, Quintana Roo, Chihuahua and Coahuila) permit same-sex marriages. Both Israel and Malta recognizes same-sex marriages abroad - but does not allow same-sex marriages to be performed within its borders. In 21 countries worldwide and in several US Counties and/or Cities, a same-sex couple can be legally partnered in a civil union, domestic partnership or registered partnership. Couples in these unions or partnerships are afforded rights and obligations similar to, but not identical to, those of a married couple.\n\nOn the issue of transsexualism, the European Court of Human Rights in \"Goodwin v UK\" and \"I v UK\" (July 2002) concluded that there is no justification for barring a transsexual from enjoying the right to marry. In \"Bellinger v Bellinger\" [2003] UKHL 21, (2003) Times, 11 April the English courts held that the non-recognition of change of gender for the purposes of marriage in s 11(c) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 was incompatible with Convention rights. But the House of Lords did not consider that the issues raised in the case were suitable for determination by courts and left the matter for Parliament, which has now enacted the Gender Recognition Act 2004 and matches the majority of European states in permitting marriage in the adoptive gender role. The same rights may be allowed in Australia, Canada, and some other states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16615741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16615741", "title": "Constitutional Tribunal of Ecuador", "text": "Constitutional Tribunal of Ecuador\n\nThe Constitutional Tribunal of Ecuador (Spanish: Tribunal Constitucional del Ecuador) is the highest court in Ecuador dealing with constitutional issues. It was created as part of Ecuador's 1996 constitutional reform package. It is composed of nine magistrates.\n\nThe Constitutional Tribunal has been affected by Ecuador's recent political crises. In 2005, President Lucio Gutiérrez manipulated his party's modest advantage in Congress to replace numerous justices, including eight of nine members of the Constitutional Tribunal.\n\nIn 2007, the Tribunal was involved in a confrontation with newly elected President Rafael Correa. On March 9, the Tribunal warned Correa that he would be acting illegally if he ignored its eventual ruling on the constitutionality of a national referendum. Correa responded that the Tribunal was \"dominated by the political parties\" and that it had no authority to act on the issue. The Tribunal's rulings have often been ignored by Ecuador's presidents and Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8688927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8688927", "title": "Democratic Republic of the Congo constitutional referendum, 2005", "text": "Democratic Republic of the Congo constitutional referendum, 2005\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Democratic Republic of Congo on 18 and 19 December 2005. Voters were asked whether they approved of a proposed new constitution. It was approved by 84% of voters, with the first elections held under the new constitution in 2006.\n\nThe constitution was approved by the Senate and National Assembly after being agreed by all factions involved in the Second Congo War. It was then required to be put to a referendum. If approved, it would replace a transitional constitution in place since 2002.\n\nThe new constitution introduced a two-term limit on the presidency and a minimum age of 30 for presidential candidates (reduced from 35), allowing the incumbent President Joseph Kabila to run for office. It also granted citizenship to all ethnic groups present in the country at the time of independence in 1960 and increased the number of provinces from 10 to 26, as well as guaranteeing free primary education.\n\nThe referendum was originally scheduled to be held on 17 December, but ran into a second day due to issues with heavy rain and incomplete voter rolls. Observers from the European Union said the poll was \"largely free and fair\" and that the atmosphere at the time of the referendum was peaceful.\n"}
{"id": "26823272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26823272", "title": "Doctrine of parity", "text": "Doctrine of parity\n\nThe doctrine of parity was used to justify agricultural price controls in the United States beginning in the 1920s. It was the belief that farming should be as profitable as it was between 1909 and 1914, an era of high food prices and farm prosperity. The doctrine sought to restore the \"terms of trade\" enjoyed by farmers in those years. It was highly controversial, since critics argued it ignored changes in agricultural productivity and set an artificial standard.\n\nThe doctrine developed in the 1920s as food prices declined after the First World War. The first attempt at instituting the parity doctrine was the McNary-Haugen Bill, vetoed by President Calvin Coolidge in 1928. Farming prices decreased further during the Great Depression, leading to parity-seeking New Deal era legislation, such as the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933.\n\nPolitical pressure to enforce parity declined after the 1940s and 1950s as commodity prices rose. However, New Deal programs remained in place, and agricultural price regulations were still regularly introduced.\n\nAmerican farm commodity prices rose throughout the 19th century. Even when occasional declines and farmer complaints occurred, like in the mid-1880s, the federal government only intervened through tariffs, anti-trust laws, and small measures to spur demand. There was no conscious effort to bring prices to an “ideal” level. In the early 1910s, commodity prices rose even further, and by 1914, farm prices were at their highest level in a century. The prosperous 5-10 year period before 1914 is often referred to as the “Golden Age” of agriculture, and the relative price level of this time would set the standard for “parity.”\n\nAmerica’s involvement in the First World War in 1917 spurred the first large-scale federal intervention in the farm commodities market. Out of wartime necessity, the government allowed executive regulation of agricultural production and requisitioned food supplies. This wartime intervention, though not implemented with the intention of aiding farmers, would lay the foundation for later regulations. After the war, prices declined; 1921 saw a particularly sharp drop. During this period, the first organized farm lobbies were created.\n\nAs political pressure rose, the McNary-Haugen Bill was introduced in Congress in January 1924. The bill would control US agriculture prices by having the federal government purchase excess supply. A fund of $200 million would be created for such a purpose. The target prices would be computed monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and would be real-price equivalents of those in the 1905-1914 period. The bill passed Congress in 1928, but was vetoed by President Calvin Coolidge.\n\nDespite the political pressure, 1924-1929 farm commodity prices were, on average, only 5 percent lower than in the 1909-1914 parity period. In 1929-1933, however, farm prices declined much further. Between 1919 and 1933, wholesale agricultural prices declined by 67 percent, with most of this drop occurring after 1929. In 1930 alone, farm commodity prices declined by 37 percent. The Hoover administration passed the Agricultural Marketing Act in 1929, which introduced limited supply controls, but the price decline continued.\n\nIn light of this decline, President Franklin D. Roosevelt passed the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933. This plan imposed acreage limitations on farmers in return for federal benefit payments. By limiting supply, the Act explicitly sought to raise prices and reestablish the relative purchasing power of farmers that had prevailed from 1909 to 1914.\n\nThese efforts did raise prices; but by 1938 the farm commodity price ratio was still at only 77 percent of pre-war parity. In 1940, agricultural prices were only 65 percent of 1929 prices. Throughout 1940, the ratio of agricultural prices to general prices remained well below that of the 1909–1914 era.\n\nAfter 1940 the priorities of the federal government shifted to wartime needs. Civilian demand was no longer incentivized, and supply was stimulated. Following the war, however, New-Deal-era programs continued, and parity prices were continually recalculated throughout the following decades. After 1948, parity-prices were linked to the relationships among farm and nonfarm prices during the most recent 10-year period, rather than only on the 1909–1914 benchmark, thereby adjusting for changes in relative productivity.\n\nThe doctrine of parity was politically controversial, particularly in the 1930s and 1940s. Proponents believed the period from 1909 to 1914 had represented a desirable \"dynamic\" equilibrium between the industrial and manufacturing sectors of the economy. They pointed to the era's low unemployment and industrial stability. The departure from this ideal was blamed on World War I's massive distortions.\n\nCritics countered that the parity doctrine was based on political, not economic, arguments. They said it ignored changes in relative productivity. For instance, if productivity in agriculture (relative to the 1909–1914 base period) rose faster than in industry, the parity price would be too high, and \"vice versa\". They argued the relative price structure of one period would quickly become obsolete as technology progresses at different paces in each economic sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "49893076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49893076", "title": "Douglas H. Evans", "text": "Douglas H. Evans\n\nDouglas Harold Evans is an American author and fire protection engineer.\nEvans has worked for Rolf Jensen & Associates, as well as Clark County, Nevada Fire Prevention department . and has been a regular contributor to building code development in the United States.\nEvans has particular expertise in smoke control measures, having authored 3 books on the topic as well as pressurisation ductwork, grease ducts and exterior building facades.\nHaving retired from Clark County, Evans is now in private practice and still contributes to the International Building Code on matters related to structural fire protection.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55192017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55192017", "title": "Electoral Commission of Catalonia", "text": "Electoral Commission of Catalonia\n\nThe Electoral Commission of Catalonia () was the electoral commission for the independence referendum, guaranteeing the transparency and objectivity of the electoral process and the effective exercise of electoral rights. It is based in Parliament of Catalonia. On September 21, 2017, the Constitutional Court of Spain imposed daily fines of 12,000 euros for each member of the commission, and 6,000 euros for each territorial trustee. One of the members, Josep Maria Jové i Lladó (, ), resigned after being arrested, to avoid the fine. On September 22, 2017, the Commission dissolved itself.\n\nIt was a permanent body made up of five members, either jurists or political scientists, experts in electoral processes, appointed by an absolute majority of the Parliament of Catalonia at the proposal of the parties, federations, coalitions or voter groupings with representation in the Parliament of Catalonia.\n"}
{"id": "2857195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2857195", "title": "Ethics of eating meat", "text": "Ethics of eating meat\n\nThe question of whether it is right to eat non-human animals (henceforth \"animals\") is among the most prominent topics in food ethics. The most commonly given moral objection to meat-eating is that, for most people living in the developed world, it is not necessary for survival or health; some argue that slaughtering animals solely because people enjoy the taste of meat is wrong and morally unjustifiable.\n\nEthical vegetarians and ethical vegans may also object to the practices underlying the production of meat, or cite their concerns about animal welfare, animal rights, environmental ethics, and religious reasons. In response, some proponents of meat-eating have adduced various scientific, nutritional, cultural, and religious arguments in support of the practice. Some meat-eaters only object to rearing animals in certain ways, such as in factory farms, or killing them with cruelty; others avoid only certain meats, such as veal or foie gras.\n\nPeter Singer (Princeton University and University of Melbourne professor and pioneer of the animal liberation movement) has long argued that, if it is possible to survive and be healthy without eating meat, fish, dairy, or eggs, one ought to choose that option instead of causing unnecessary harm to animals. In \"Animal Liberation\", Singer argued that, because non-human animals feel, they should be treated according to utilitarian ethics. Singer's work has since been widely built upon by philosophers, both those who agree and those who do not, and it has been applied by animal rights advocates as well as by ethical vegetarians and vegans.\n\nEthical vegetarians say that the reasons for not hurting or killing animals are similar to the reasons for not hurting or killing humans. They argue that killing an animal, like killing a human, can only be justified in extreme circumstances; consuming a living creature just for its taste, for convenience, or out of habit is not justifiable. Some ethicists have added that humans, unlike other animals, are morally conscious of their behavior and have a choice; this is why there are laws governing human behavior, and why it is subject to moral standards.\n\nEthical vegetarian concerns have become more widespread in developed countries, particularly because of the spread of factory farming, more open and graphic documentation of what human meat-eating entails for the animal, and environmental consciousness. Some proponents of meat-eating argue that the current mass demand for meat has to be satisfied with a mass-production system, regardless of the welfare of animals. Less radical proponents argue that practices like well-managed free-range rearing and the consumption of hunted animals, particularly from species whose natural predators have been significantly eliminated, could satisfy the demand for mass-produced meat. Reducing the worldwide massive food waste would also contribute to reduce meat waste and therefore save animals. Indeed, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, about a third of the food for human consumption is wasted globally (around 1.3 billion tons per year).\n\nSome have described unequal treatment of humans and animals as a form of speciesism such as anthropocentrism or human-centeredness. Val Plumwood (1993, 1996) has argued that anthropocentrism plays a role in green theory that is analogous to androcentrism in feminist theory and ethnocentrism in anti-racist theory. Plumwood calls human-centredness \"anthropocentrism\" to emphasize this parallel. By analogy with racism and sexism, Melanie Joy has dubbed meat-eating \"carnism\". The animal rights movement seeks an end to the rigid moral and legal distinction drawn between human and non-human animals, an end to the status of animals as property, and an end to their use in the research, food, clothing, and entertainment industries. Peter Singer, in his ethical philosophy of what it is to be a \"person\", argues that livestock animals feel enough to deserve better treatment than they receive. Many thinkers have questioned the morality not only of the double standard underlying speciesism but also the double standard underlying the fact that people support treatment of cows, pigs, and chickens that they would never allow with pet dogs, cats, or birds.\n\nJay Bost, agroecologist and winner of \"The New York Times\" essay contest on the ethics of eating meat, summarized his argument in the following way: \"eating meat raised in specific circumstances is ethical; eating meat raised in other circumstances is unethical\" in regard to environmental usage. He proposes that if \"ethical is defined as living in the most ecologically benign way, then in fairly specific circumstances, of which each eater must educate himself, eating meat is ethical.\" The specific circumstances he mentions include using animals to cycle nutrients and convert sun to food. Ethicists like Tom Regan and Peter Singer define \"ethical\" in terms of suffering rather than ecology. Mark Rowlands argues that the real determinant of whether it is ethical to cause suffering is whether there is any \"vital need\" to cause it; if not, then causing it is unethical.\n\nEthologist Jane Goodall stated in the 2009 book \"The Inner World of Farm Animals\" that \"farm animals feel pleasure and sadness, excitement and resentment, depression, fear and pain. They are much more sensitive and intelligent than we ever imagined.\" In 2012, a group of well known neuroscientists stated in the \"Cambridge Declaration on Consciousness in Non-Human Animals\" that all mammals and birds (such as farm animals), and other animals, possess the neurological substrates that generate consciousness and are able to experience affective states. Eugene Linden, author of \"The Parrot's Lament\", suggests that many examples of animal behavior and intelligence seem to indicate both emotion and a level of consciousness that we would normally ascribe only to our own species.\n\nPhilosopher Daniel Dennett counters:\n\nPhilosophers Peter Singer (Princeton), Jeff McMahan (Oxford) and others also counter that the issue is not one of consciousness, but of sentience.\n\nA related argument revolves around non-human organisms' ability to feel pain. If animals could be shown to suffer, as humans do, then many of the arguments against human suffering could be extended to animals. One such reaction is transmarginal inhibition, a phenomenon observed in humans and some animals akin to mental breakdown.\n\nAs noted by John Webster (emeritus professor of animal husbandry at the University of Bristol):\n\nWhen people choose to do things about which they are ambivalent and which they would have difficulty justifying, they experience a state of cognitive dissonance, which can lead to rationalization, denial, or even self-deception. For example, a 2011 experiment found that, when the harm that their meat-eating causes animals is explicitly brought to people's attention, they tend to rate those animals as possessing fewer mental capacities compared to when the harm is not brought to their attention. This is especially evident when people expect to eat meat in the near future. Such denial makes it less uncomfortable for people to eat animals. The data suggest that people who consume meat go to great lengths to try to resolve these moral inconsistencies between their beliefs and behaviour by adjusting their beliefs about what animals are capable of feeling. Ethical vegetarians argue that it is behaviour rather than supporting beliefs that should be adjusted.\n\nSome people choose to be vegetarian or vegan for environmental reasons.\n\nAccording to a 2006 report by LEAD \"Livestock's Long Shadow\", \"the livestock sector emerges as one of the top two or three most significant contributors to the most serious environmental problems, at every scale from local to global.\" The livestock sector is probably the largest source of water pollution (due to animal wastes, fertilizers, and pesticides), contributing to eutrophication, human health problems, and the emergence of antibiotic resistance. It accounts also for over 8% of global human water use.\n\nLivestock production is by far the biggest cause of land use, as it accounts for 40% of the global land surface. It is probably the leading player in biodiversity loss, as it causes deforestation, land degradation, pollution, climate change,and overfishing. A 2017 study by the World Wildlife Fund found that 60% of biodiversity loss can be attributed to the vast scale of feed crop cultivation needed to rear tens of billions of farm animals. Livestock is also responsible for at least 20% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, which are the main cause of the current climate change. This is due to feed production, enteric fermentation from ruminants, manure storage and processing, and transportation of animal products. The greenhouse gas emissions from livestock production greatly exceeds the greenhouse gas emissions of any other human activity. Some authors argue that by far the best thing we can do to slow climate change is a global shift towards a vegetarian or vegan diet. A 2017 study published in the journal \"Carbon Balance and Management\" found animal agriculture's global methane emissions are 11% higher than previously estimated. In November 2017, 15,364 world scientists signed a warning to humanity calling for, among other things, \"promoting dietary shifts towards mostly plant-based foods.\"\n\nAnimals that feed on grain or rely on grazing require more water than grain crops. Producing 1 kg of meat requires up to 15,000 liters of water. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), growing crops for farm animals requires nearly half of the US water supply and 80% of its agricultural land. Animals raised for food in the US consume 90% of the soy crop, 80% of the corn crop, and 70% of its grain. However, where an extensive farming system (as opposed to a feedlot) is used, some water and nutrients are returned to the soil to provide a benefit to the pasture. This cycling and processing of water and nutrients is less prevalent in most plant production systems, so may bring the efficiency rate of animal production closer to the efficiency of plant based agricultural systems. In tracking food animal production from the feed through to the dinner table, the inefficiencies of meat, milk, and egg production range from a 4:1 energy input to protein output ratio up to 54:1. The result is that producing animal-based food is typically much less efficient than the harvesting of grains, vegetables, legumes, seeds, and fruits.\n\nThere are also environmentalist arguments in favor of the morality of eating meat. One such line of argument holds that sentience and individual welfare are less important to morality than the greater ecological good. Following environmentalist Aldo Leopold's principle that the sole criterion for morality is preserving the \"integrity, stability and beauty of the biotic community\", this position asserts that sustainable hunting and animal agriculture are environmentally healthy and therefore good.\n\nHinduism holds vegetarianism as an ideal for three reasons: the principle of nonviolence (ahimsa) applied to animals; the intention to offer only \"pure\" (vegetarian) or sattvic food to a deity and then to receive it back as prasad; and the conviction that an insentient diet is beneficial for a healthy body and mind and that non-vegetarian food is detrimental for the mind and for spiritual development. Buddhist vegetarianism has similar strictures against hurting animals. The actual practices of Hindus and Buddhists vary according to their community and according to regional traditions. Jains are especially rigorous about not harming sentient organisms.\n\nIslamic Law and Judaism have dietary guidelines called Halal and Kashrut, respectively. In Judaism, meat that may be consumed according to \"halakha\" (Jewish law) is termed \"kosher\"; meat that is not compliant with Jewish law is called \"treif\". Causing unnecessary pain to animals is prohibited by the principle of tza'ar ba'alei chayim. While it is neither required nor prohibited for Jews to eat meat, a number of medieval scholars of Judaism, such as Joseph Albo and Isaac Arama, regard vegetarianism as a moral ideal.\n\nIn Christianity as practised by members of Eastern Orthodox Church, Roman Catholic Church, Greek Catholic Church, and others, it is prohibited to eat meat in times of fasting. Rules of fasting also vary. There are also Christian monastic orders that practice vegetarianism.\n\nIt has been argued that a moral community requires all participants to be able to make moral decisions, but animals are incapable of making moral choices (e.g., a tiger would not refrain from eating a human because it was morally wrong; it would decide whether to attack based on its survival needs, as dictated by hunger). Thus, some opponents of ethical vegetarianism argue that the analogy between killing animals and killing people is misleading. For example, Hsiao (2015) compares the moral severity of harming animals to that of picking a flower or introducing malware into a computer. Others have argued that humans are capable of culture, innovation, and the sublimation of instinct in order to act in an ethical manner while animals are not, and so are unequal to humans on a moral level. This does not excuse cruelty, but it implies animals are not morally equivalent to humans and do not possess the rights a human has. The precise definition of a moral community is not simple, but Hsiao defines membership by the ability to know one's own good and that of other members, and to be able to grasp this in the abstract. He claims that non-human animals do not meet this standard.\n\nBenjamin Franklin describes his conversion to vegetarianism in chapter one of his autobiography, but then he describes why he (periodically) ceased vegetarianism in his later life:\nOne study found that approximately 60% of contemporary professional ethicists consider it \"morally bad\" to eat meat from mammals. Writing in \"Current Affairs\", Nathan J. Robinson describes the billions of non-human animals that suffer and die at the hands of human beings for consumption as a \"holocaust\" and, citing Jeremy Bentham's formulation \"The question is not, Can they reason? nor, Can they talk? but, \"Can they suffer\"?\" contends that it is \"morally reprehensible\" and \"deeply wrong\".\n\nVarious programs operate in the US that promote the notion that animals raised for food can be treated humanely. Some spokespeople for the factory farming industry argue that the animals are better off in total confinement. For example, according to F J \"Sonny\" Faison, president of Carroll's Foods:\nIn response, animal welfare advocates ask for evidence that any factory-bred animal is better off caged than free. Farm Sanctuary argue that commodifying and slaughtering animals is incompatible with the definition of \"humane\". Animal ethicists such as Gary Francione have argued that reducing animal suffering is not enough; it needs to be made illegal and abolished.\n\nPeter Singer has pointed out that the ethical argument for vegetarianism may not apply to all non-vegetarian food. For example, any arguments against causing pain to animals would not apply to animals that do not feel pain. It has also often been noted that, while it takes a lot more grain to feed some animals such as cows for human consumption than it takes to feed a human directly, not all animals consume land plants (or other animals that consume land plants). For example, oysters consume underwater plankton and algae. In 2010, Christopher Cox wrote:\n\nCox went on to suggest that oysters would be acceptable to eat, even by strict ethical criteria, if they did not feel: \"while you could give them the benefit of the doubt, you could also say that unless some new evidence of a capacity for pain emerges, the doubt is so slight that there is no good reason for avoiding eating sustainably produced oysters.\" Cox has added that, although he believes in some of the ethical reasons for vegetarianism, he is not strictly a vegan or even a vegetarian because he consumes oysters.\n\nCritics of ethical vegetarianism say that there is no agreement on where to draw the line between organisms that can and cannot feel. Justin Leiber, a philosophy professor at Oxford University, writes that:\nThere are also some who argue that, although only suffering animals feel anguish, plants, like all organisms, have evolved mechanisms for survival. No living organism can be described as \"wanting\" to die for another organism's sustenance. In an article written for \"The New York Times\", Carol Kaesuk Yoon argues that:\n\nSteven Davis, a professor of animal science at Oregon State University, argues that the least harm principle does not require giving up all meat. Davis states that a diet containing beef from grass-fed ruminants such as cattle would kill fewer animals than a vegetarian diet, particularly when one takes into account animals killed by agriculture.\n\nThis conclusion has been criticized by Jason Gaverick Matheny (founder of \"in vitro\" meat organization New Harvest) because it calculates the number of animals killed per acre (instead of per consumer). Matheny says that, when the numbers are adjusted, Davis' argument shows veganism as perpetrating the least harm. Davis' argument has also been criticized by Andy Lamey for being based on only two studies that may not represent commercial agricultural practices. When differentiating between animals killed by farm machinery and those killed by other animals, he says that the studies again show veganism to do the \"least harm\".\n\nOne of the main differences between a vegan and a typical vegetarian diet is the avoidance of both eggs and dairy products such as milk, cheese, butter, and yogurt. Ethical vegans do not consume dairy or eggs because they believe their production causes animal suffering or premature death.\n\nTo produce milk from dairy cattle, most calves are separated from their mothers soon after birth and fed milk replacement in order to retain the cows' milk for human consumption. Animal welfare advocates point out that this breaks the natural bond between the mother and her calf. Unwanted male calves are either slaughtered at birth or sent for veal production. To prolong lactation, dairy cows are almost permanently kept pregnant through artificial insemination. Although cows' natural life expectancy is about twenty years, after about five years the cows' milk production has dropped; they are then considered \"spent\" and are sent to slaughter for meat and leather.\nBattery cages are the predominant form of housing for laying hens worldwide; these cages reduce aggression and cannibalism among hens, but are barren, restrict movement, and increase rates of osteoporosis. In these systems and in free-range egg production, unwanted male chicks are culled and killed at birth during the process of securing a further generation of egg-laying hens. It is estimated that an average consumer of eggs who eats 200 eggs per year for 70 years of his or her life is responsible for the deaths of 140 birds, and that an average consumer of milk who drinks 190 kg per year for 70 years is responsible for the deaths of 2.5 cows.\n\n"}
{"id": "54409037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54409037", "title": "European Journal of Law and Economics", "text": "European Journal of Law and Economics\n\nThe European Journal of Law and Economics is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering law and economics. with a focus on European countries. It was established in 1994 and is published by Springer Science+Business Media. The editor-in-chief is Jürgen G. Backhaus (University of Erfurt). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.481.\n"}
{"id": "4614755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4614755", "title": "Extradition law in the United States", "text": "Extradition law in the United States\n\nExtradition law in the United States is the formal process by which a fugitive found in the United States is surrendered to another country or state for trial or punishment. For foreign countries, the process is regulated by treaty and conducted between the federal government of the United States and the government of a foreign country. The process is considerably different from interstate or intrastate extradition. Florida, Alaska, and Hawaii do not extradite for a misdemeanor conviction that was convicted in the US, as of 2010. Some felonies are an exception in American law such as a crime that is violent in nature, or a sexual offense, or felony driving while intoxicated; they will entail extradition from all states in the United States. Theft charges and small drug crimes are the exception; for instance, if a minor crime is committed in Florida, a person apprehended in Idaho will not be extradited back to the original crime's jurisdiction. Federal charges are governed by US federal law and most states, with the exceptions of South Carolina and Missouri, have adopted the Uniform Criminal Extradition Act. In practice, Florida, Alaska, and Hawaii typically do not extradite if the crime in question is not a felony because of the associated costs of transporting the suspect and the housing fees that must be paid to the jurisdiction in which he is held until transported.\n\nThe Extradition Clause in the US Constitution requires states, upon demand of another state, to deliver a fugitive from justice who has committed a \"treason, felony or other crime\" to the state from which the fugitive has fled. sets the process by which an executive of a state, district, or territory of the United States must arrest and turn over a fugitive from another state, district, or territory.\n\nFor a person to be extradited interstate, requires:\n\n\nIn \"Kentucky v. Dennison\", decided in 1860, the Supreme Court held that, although the governor of the asylum state had a constitutional duty to return a fugitive to the demanding state, the federal courts had no authority to enforce this duty. As a result, for more than 100 years, the governor of one state was deemed to have discretion on whether or not he/she would comply with another state's request for extradition.\n\nIn a 1987 case, \"Puerto Rico v. Branstad\", the Court overruled \"Dennison\", and held that the governor of the asylum state has no discretion in performing his or her duty to extradite, whether that duty arises under the Extradition Clause of the Constitution or under the Extradition Act (), and that a federal court may enforce the governor's duty to return the fugitive to the demanding state. There are only four grounds upon which the Governor of the asylum state may deny another state’s request for extradition: (1) the extradition documents facially are not in order; (2) the person has not been charged with a crime in the demanding state; (3) the person is not the person named in the extradition documents; or (4) the person is not a fugitive. There appears to be at least one additional exception: if the fugitive is under sentence in the asylum state, he need not be extradited until his punishment in the asylum state is completed.\n\nThe United States has extradition treaties with more than 100 countries. Of the treaties most are dual criminality treaties with the remaining being list treaties. A list of countries with which the United States has an extradition treaty relationship can be found in the Federal Criminal Code and Rules, following 18 U.S.C. § 3181, but this list may not be completely accurate. (This list is reproduced as the list of United States extradition treaties.)\n\nThe United States maintains diplomatic relations – but does \"not\" have extradition treaties – with the following countries: \nThese countries have no diplomatic relations with the United States:\nThese countries are not recognized by the United States:\nGenerally under United States law (18 U.S.C. § 3184), extradition may be granted only pursuant to a treaty. Some countries grant extradition without a treaty, but every such country requires an offer of reciprocity when extradition is accorded in the absence of a treaty. Further, the 1996 amendments to 18 U.S.C. 3181 and 3184 permit the United States to extradite, without regard to the existence of a treaty, persons (other than citizens, nationals or permanent residents of the United States) who have committed crimes of violence against nationals of the United States in foreign countries.\n\nAll extradition treaties in force require foreign requests for extradition to be submitted through diplomatic channels, usually from the country's embassy in Washington to the Department of State. Many treaties also require that requests for provisional arrest be submitted through diplomatic channels, although some permit provisional arrest requests to be sent directly to the Department of Justice. The Department of State reviews foreign extradition demands to identify any potential foreign policy problems and to ensure that there is a treaty in force between the United States and the country making the request, that the crime or crimes are extraditable offenses, and that the supporting documents are properly certified in accordance with 18 U.S.C. § 3190. If the request is in proper order, an attorney in the State Department's Office of the Legal Adviser prepares a certificate attesting to the existence of the treaty, that the crime or crimes are extraditable offenses, and that the supporting documents are properly certified in accordance with 18 U.S.C. § 3190, and forwards it with the original request to the Justice Department's Office of International Affairs (\"OIA\").\n\nOnce the OIA receives a foreign extradition request, it reviews the request for sufficiency and forwards sufficient requests to the United States Attorney's Office for the judicial district in which the fugitive is located. The U.S. Attorney's office then obtains a warrant, and the fugitive is arrested and brought before the magistrate judge or the US district judge. The government opposes bond in extradition cases. Unless the fugitive waives his or her right to a hearing, the court will hold a hearing pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3184 to determine whether the fugitive is extraditable. If the court finds the fugitive to be extraditable, it enters an order of extraditability and certifies the record to the Secretary of State, who decides whether to surrender the fugitive to the requesting government. OIA notifies the foreign government and arranges for the transfer of the fugitive to the agents appointed by the requesting country to receive him or her. Although the order following the extradition hearing is not appealable (by either the fugitive or the government), the fugitive may petition for a writ of habeas corpus as soon as the order is issued. The district court's decision on the writ is subject to appeal, and the extradition may be stayed if the court so orders.\n\nHabeas corpus is a legal procedure initiated by an individual to test the legality of his detention by the government. To benefit from habeas corpus, the affected person, or someone on his behalf, must file a petition for relief before a court with jurisdiction. The procedure is contained in 28 U.S.C. § 2241 et. seq. When the habeas petition contests the decision of an extradition magistrate, the individual must argue that his detention and surrender to a foreign country violates the United States Constitution, the applicable extradition treaty, or a federal statute. \n\nBecause orders of extradition cannot be appealed, the only means for an individual to have them reviewed is to file a request for a writ of habeas corpus. The government, on the other hand, may renew its request if the original one is denied. Habeas corpus review by a district court is generally available whenever an individual \"is in custody in violation of the Constitution or laws or treaties of the United States\", and is provided for several different types of detention in addition to extradition, such as detention after a criminal conviction, and for military purposes. As part of its habeas review, the court will normally accept the factual findings of the extradition magistrate, while legal issues are considered anew. \n\nThe scope of review of a writ of habeas corpus in extradition is meant to be limited. It is settled to cover at least inquiries on whether: (1) the extradition magistrate acquired jurisdiction over the individual and the matter; (2) the crime for which extradition is sought is included within the treaty as an extraditable offense, and (3) whether there is probable cause to commit the relator to trial. Many courts, however, have adopted an \"expanded\" scope of habeas review that additionally considers issues about the violation of constitutional rights. \n\nPetitioners in extradition cases may contest the legality of their detention though a habeas proceeding by arguing, for example, that the extradition treaty is not in force, that the alleged crime constitutes political behavior subject to exception, that the determination of extraditability by the magistrate has not been made according to the requirements of the applicable United States statutes and treaty, that the extradition procedure does not comply with the Constitution, and that the relator has not been formally charged. \n\nEven though the decision of the extradition magistrate cannot be appealed, the habeas corpus determination by the district court is subject to appeal to the corresponding circuit court. Thereafter, review may be sought through certiorari to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe federal structure of the United States can pose particular problems with respect to extraditions when the police power and the power of foreign relations are held at different levels of the federal hierarchy. For instance, in the United States, most criminal prosecutions occur at the state level, and most foreign relations occur at the federal level. In fact, under the United States Constitution, foreign countries may not have official treaty relations with sub-national units such as individual states; rather, they may have treaty relations only with the federal government. As a result, a state that wishes to prosecute an individual located in a foreign country must direct its extradition request through the federal government, which will negotiate the extradition with the foreign country. However, due to the constraints of federalism, any conditions on the extradition accepted by the federal government—such as not to impose the death penalty—are not binding on individual states.\n\nIn the case of \"Soering v. United Kingdom\", the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the United Kingdom was not permitted under its treaty obligations to extradite an individual to the United States, because the United States' federal government was constitutionally unable to offer binding assurances that the death penalty would not be sought in Virginia courts. Ultimately, the Commonwealth of Virginia itself had to offer assurances to the federal government, which passed those assurances on to the United Kingdom, which extradited the individual to the United States.\n\nAdditional problems can arise due to differing criteria for crimes. For instance, in the United States, crossing state lines is a prerequisite for certain federal crimes (otherwise crimes such as murder are handled by state governments except in certain circumstances such as the killing of a federal official). This transportation clause is absent from the laws of many countries. Extradition treaties or subsequent diplomatic correspondence often include language providing that such criteria should not be taken into account when checking if the crime is one in the country from which extradition should apply.\n\nTo clarify the above point, if a person in the United States crosses the borders of the United States to go to another country, then that person has crossed a federal border, and federal law would apply in addition to state law. Crossing state lines (within the U.S.) in committing a crime could also create federal jurisdiction. In addition, travel by airplane in the United States subjects one to federal law, as all airports are subject to federal jurisdiction.\n\nIt is unlawful for U.S. citizens to enter or exit the United States without a valid U.S. passport or Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative–compliant passport-replacement document, or without an exception or waiver. An application is required for the issuance of a passport. If a fugitive being extradited to the United States refuses to sign a passport application, the consular officer can sign it \"without recourse\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33306346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33306346", "title": "Freedom of information legislation (Tennessee)", "text": "Freedom of information legislation (Tennessee)\n\nThe Tennessee Open Records Act is a law that states that any citizen of Tennessee may request public records there. Public documents shall \"be open for personal inspection by any citizen of Tennessee.\" However, recent federal court rulings have overturned similar state specific statutes and open up records in these states to all U.S. citizens.\n"}
{"id": "5149889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149889", "title": "Graduate Diploma in English and Hong Kong Law", "text": "Graduate Diploma in English and Hong Kong Law\n\nThe Graduate Diploma in English and Hong Kong Law (GDEHKL) is a Hong Kong graduate diploma programme that allows students that did not take law as an undergraduate degree (i.e. \"non-law students\") to \"convert\" to law, before going onto a professional qualification course and ultimately legal training. \n\nThe GDEHKL is a localised mutation of the Common Professional Examination of England and Wales (CPE), or Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL). It is jointly offered by the University of Hong Kong's School of Professional and Continuing Education (HKU SPACE) as the course operator, and Manchester Metropolitan University as the qualification awarding institution. The completion of the course qualifies students to proceed to legal training courses in Hong Kong and England & Wales or to many LL.M. programmes. Graduates of the GDEHKL include Judge Anthea Pang Po-kam of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.\n\nThe GDEHKL is the only law programme in Hong Kong which substantially satisfies both the requirements for entry into the Postgraduate Certificate in Laws (PCLL) for those who intend to practice law in Hong Kong, and also the requirements for entry into the Legal Practice Course (LPC) and the English Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC) for those who intend to practice in England and Wales. The GDEHKL is recognised by the Standing Committee on Legal Education and Training as demonstrating competence in the three Top-up Subjects on Hong Kong law required for entry to the PCLL. Graduates of the GDEHKL who continue on to take the additional MMU LLB year after the CPE will have passed all necessary law subjects required for PCLL eligibility.\n\nThe GDEHKL is an exempted course under a Hong Kong law known as the Non-Local Higher and Professional Education (Regulation) Ordinance, which states that it is a matter of discretion for individual employers to recognize any qualification to which this course may lead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2181771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181771", "title": "Harrison Tweed Award", "text": "Harrison Tweed Award\n\nThe Harrison Tweed Award was created in 1956 to recognize the extraordinary achievements of state and local bar associations that develop or significantly expand projects or programs to increase access to civil legal services for poor persons or criminal defense services for indigents. This award is given annually by the American Bar Association's (ABA) Standing Committee on Legal Aid and Indigent Defendants and the National Legal Aid & Defender Association, is presented during the ABA Annual Meeting at a joint luncheon of the National Conference of Bar Presidents, National Association of Bar Executives and National Conference of Bar Foundations. The award is named for Harrison Tweed, past president of Sarah Lawrence College.\n\n1953 • New York State Governor Thomas E. Dewey, and the state legislature formed the temporary Tweed Commission (named after its chair, lawyer Harrison Tweed) to conduct public and private hearings regarding the post-World War II court situation; such as overall caseload volumes that had grown to the point where court delay was becoming a major problem and procedural reform was necessary.\n\n1955 • The Legislature created the Judicial Conference to allow for periodic meetings of judges to discuss problems and established the Office of State Administrator; their functions were merely advisory but allowed the permanent examination of court operations.\n\n1958 • The Tweed Commission Report proposed reform through centralization of court administration, simplification of court structure, and continued supervision of the courts by the Judicial Conference and the Appellate Division.\n\n1962 • A new Judiciary Article for the State Constitution, implementing many of the Tweed Commission recommendations, was approved by the Legislature and the voters; this article created the \"Unified Court System,\" established the various trial courts, established the Administrative Board of the Judicial Conference (the Chief Judge of the Court of the Appellate Division), and conferred on the Appellate Divisions various administrative powers.\n\nNOTE: Tweed fellow family members included Simeon Eben Baldwin, Connecticut Governor and cofounder, American Bar Association; and Roger Nash Baldwin, cofounder and the first executive director, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU).\n\n"}
{"id": "309330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309330", "title": "Herem (censure)", "text": "Herem (censure)\n\nHerem (, also Romanized \"chērem, ḥērem\") is the highest ecclesiastical censure in the Jewish community. It is the total exclusion of a person from the Jewish community. It is a form of shunning and is similar to \"vitandus\" \"excommunication\" in the Catholic Church. Cognate terms in other Semitic languages include the Arabic terms \"ḥarām\" \"forbidden, taboo, off-limits, or immoral\" and haram \"set apart, sanctuary\", and the Ge'ez word \"ʿirm\" \"accursed\".\n\nArguably the most famous case of a herem is that of Baruch Spinoza, the seventeenth century philosopher.\n\nOther famous subjects of a herem were early Russian communists Leon Trotsky and Grigory Zinoviev. Sometime in 1918, while Ukraine was under German occupation, the rabbis of Odessa pronounced herem against Trotsky, Zinoviev, and other Jewish Bolshevik leaders in the synagogue.\n\nAlthough developed from the Biblical ban, excommunication, as employed by the rabbis during Talmudic times and during the Middle Ages, became a rabbinic institution, the object of which was to preserve Jewish solidarity. A system of laws was gradually developed by rabbis, by means of which this power was limited, so that it became one of the modes of legal punishment by rabbinic courts. While it did not entirely lose its arbitrary character, since individuals were allowed to pronounce the ban of excommunication on particular occasions, it became chiefly a legal measure resorted to by a judicial court for certain prescribed offenses.\n\nThe three terms \"herem\" \"censure, excommunication\", the devotion of enemies by annihilation\" in the Tanakh, and the devotion of property to a kohen, are all three variant English transliterations of the same Hebrew noun. This noun comes from the semitic root Ḥ-R-M.\n\nThere is also a homonym \"herem\" \"fisherman's net\", which appears nine times in the Masoretic Text of the Tanakh, that has no etymological connection to \"herem\".\n\nThe Talmudic usage of \"herem\" for excommunication can be distinguished from the usage of \"herem\" described in the Tanakh in the time of Joshua and the early Hebrew monarchy, which was the practice of consecration by total annihilation at the command of God carried out against peoples such as the Midianites, the Amalekites, and the entire population of Jericho. The neglect of Saul to carry out such a command as delivered by Samuel resulted in the selection of David as his replacement.\n\nThe Talmud speaks of twenty-four offenses that, in theory, were punishable by a form of \"niddui\" or temporary excommunication. Maimonides (as well as later authorities) enumerates the twenty-four as follows:\n\nThe \"niddui\" () ban was usually imposed for a period of seven days (in Israel thirty days). If inflicted on account of money matters, the offender was first publicly warned (\"hatra'ah\") three times, on Monday, Thursday, and Monday successively, at the regular service in the synagogue. During the period of niddui, no one except the members of his immediate household was permitted to associate with the offender, or to sit within four cubits of him, or to eat in his company. He was expected to go into mourning and to refrain from bathing, cutting his hair, and wearing shoes, and he had to observe all the laws that pertained to a mourner. He could not be counted in the quorum for the performance of a public religious function. If he died, a stone was placed on his hearse, and the relatives were not obliged to observe the ceremonies customary at the death of a kinsman, such as the tearing of garments, etc..\n\nIt was in the power of the court to lessen or increase the severity of the niddui. The court might even reduce or increase the number of days, forbid all intercourse with the offender, and exclude his children from the schools and his wife from the synagogue, until he became humbled and willing to repent and obey the court's mandates. According to one opinion, the apprehension that the offender might leave the Jewish fold on account of the severity of the excommunication did not prevent the court from adding rigor to its punishments so as to maintain its dignity and authority (Shulkhan Arukh, Yoreh De'ah, 334, 1, Rama's gloss, citing \"Sefer Agudah\"). This opinion is vehemently contested by the Taz (ibid.), who cites earlier authorities of the same opinion (Maharshal; Maharam; Mahari Mintz) and presents proof of his position from the Talmud. Additionally, the Taz notes that his edition of the \"Sefer Agudah\" does not contain the cited position.\n\nIf the offense was in reference to monetary matters, or if the punishment was inflicted by an individual, the laws were more lenient, the chief punishment being that men might not associate with the offender. At the expiration of the period the ban was raised by the court. If, however, the excommunicate showed no sign of penitence or remorse, the niddui might be renewed once and again, and finally the \"herem,\" the most rigorous form of excommunication, might be pronounced. This extended for an indefinite period, and no one was permitted to teach the offender or work for him, or benefit him in any way, except when he was in need of the bare necessities of life.\n\nA milder form than either niddui or herem was the \"nezifah\" ban. (In modern Hebrew, \"nezifah\" generally means \"a dressing-down\" or \"reading (someone) the riot act\", i.e., a stern verbal rebuke.) This ban generally only lasted one day. During this time the offender dared not appear before him whom he had displeased. He had to retire to his house, speak little, refrain from business and pleasure, and manifest his regret and remorse. He was not required, however, to separate himself from society, nor was he obliged to apologize to the man whom he had insulted; for his conduct on the day of nezifah was sufficient apology. But when a scholar or prominent man actually pronounced the formal niddui on one who had slighted him, all the laws of niddui applied. This procedure was, however, much discouraged by the sages, so that it was a matter of proper pride for a rabbi to be able to say that he had never pronounced the ban of excommunication. Maimonides concludes with these words the chapter on the laws of excommunication:(\"Mishneh Torah\", Talmud Torah, vii. 13).\n\nExcept in rare cases in the Haredi and Hasidic communities, \"herem\" stopped existing after the Haskalah, when local Jewish communities lost their political autonomy, and Jews were integrated into the gentile nations in which they lived.\n\nIn 1918, the Rabbinical Council of Odessa, declared \"herem\" on Leon Trotsky and several other Jewish Bolsheviks.\n\nIn 1945, rabbi Mordecai Kaplan, the founder of Reconstructionist Judaism (a Jewish religious movement that seeks to divorce Judaism from belief in a personal deity), was formally excommunicated by the Haredi Union of Orthodox Rabbis (\"Agudath HaRabonim\").\n\nIn 2004, the High Court of South Africa upheld a herem against a Johannesburg businessman because he refused to pay his former wife alimony as ordered by a beth din.\n\nA herem against members of Neturei Karta who attended the International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust was declared by numerous Haredi religious leaders, including the leaders of the Satmar and Chabad Hassidic groups.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44019403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44019403", "title": "Hughes v. Fetter", "text": "Hughes v. Fetter\n\nHughes v. Fetter, 341 U.S. 609 (1951), is a Supreme Court case involving the conflict of laws between states.\n\nHarold Hughes, a resident of Wisconsin, was killed in an automobile accident while driving in Illinois. The other driver, Fetter, was also a Wisconsin resident, and Fetter's insurance company was also located in Wisconsin. The administrator of Hughes' estate filed a wrongful death claim in Wisconsin state court, alleging that the death was caused by negligence on Fetter's part.\n\nAlthough the administrator's action was filed in Wisconsin, and the defendants were a Wisconsin resident and a Wisconsin-based insurance company, the suit was based on the Illinois wrongful death statute. The trial court granted summary judgment on the merits to the defendants, holding that the public policy of Wisconsin, which had a \"door-closing\" statute with respect to wrongful death actions, which expressly limited the courts to compensating deaths occurring in Wisconsin. This was affirmed by the Wisconsin Supreme Court, and the administrator then filed a petition for certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court, asserting that the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the United States Constitution required the Wisconsin courts to apply Illinois law.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court reversed, holding that because Wisconsin's statutory policy would exclude the Illinois cause of action, the public policy asserted violated the national policy of giving Full Faith and Credit to the laws of other states. The Court found that the Illinois wrongful death statute is a \"public act\", and that Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each state to the \"public acts\" of every other state. The Court noted that Wisconsin enforced wrongful death suits under its own law, and therefore evinced no strong public policy against such claims that would justify excluding them from its courts.\n\nA dissenting opinion by Justice Frankfurter, joined by three other justices, argued that states should be able to close their courts to foreign causes of action where there is a reasonable basis to do so. Frankurter believed there was such a basis here, because the suit could have been brought in Illinois, and because there were substantial differences in the wrongful death laws of the two states.\n\nThe Court was unclear about what the objectionable discrimination really was, between the imposition of the law of another state, or the fact that the case involved an accident in another state. It has been noted that the Court also \"allowed for an indeterminate exception to the \"Hughes\" rule\" in circumstances \"when the forum did have an antipathy to the foreign claim\".\n\n\"Hughes\" is considered the leading case on the constitutionality of door-closing statutes.\n"}
{"id": "52726947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52726947", "title": "Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India", "text": "Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India\n\nThe Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) is the regulator for overseeing insolvency \"proceedings\" and entities like Insolvency Professional Agencies (IPA), Insolvency Professionals (IP) and Information Utilities (IU) in India. It was established on 1 October 2016 and given statutory powers through the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which was passed by Lok Sabha on 5 May 2016.It covers Individuals,Companies,Limited Liability Partnerships and Partnership firms. The new code will speed up the resolution process for stressed assets in the country. It attempts to simplify the process of insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings.It handles the cases using two tribunals like NCLT(National company law tribunal) and Debt recovery tribunal. \n\nMrs. Suman Saxena former Deputy CAG of India appointed as Whole Time Member of IBBI\n\nNavrang Saini appointed as whole time member of IBBI.\nMrs. Mukulita Vijayawargiya appointed as whole time member of IBBI.\n\nIBBI will have 10 members, including representatives from the Ministries of Finance and Law, and the Reserve Bank of India.\n"}
{"id": "12642949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12642949", "title": "Irish Music Rights Organisation", "text": "Irish Music Rights Organisation\n\nThe Irish Music Rights Organisation (IMRO) is a national organisation that administers the performing right in copyright music in Ireland on behalf of its members (who are songwriters, composers and music publishers) and on behalf of the songwriters, composers and music publishers of the international overseas societies that are affiliated to it.\n\nA public performance of copyright music takes place when that music is used anywhere outside of the domestic environment.\n\nIMRO´s function is to collect and distribute royalties arising from the public performance of copyright works. IMRO is a not-for-profit organisation.\n\nMusic users such as broadcasters, venues and businesses must pay for their use of copyright music by way of a blanket licence fee. IMRO collects these monies and distributes them to the songwriters, composers and music publishers who created the songs. The monies earned by copyright owners in this way are known as public performance royalties.\n\nIMRO is also prominently involved in the sponsorship and promotion of music in Ireland. Every year it sponsors a large number of song contests, music festivals, seminars, workshops, research projects and showcase performances. Indeed, IMRO is now synonymous with helping to showcase emerging talent in Ireland.\n\nAs of 1 January 2016, IMRO handled the collection and distribution of royalties covered by the repertoire of PPI through a joint licensing scheme on a select range of tariffs. \n\n"}
{"id": "2492947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2492947", "title": "Istihsan", "text": "Istihsan\n\nA number of disputes existed amongst the classical jurists over this principle with the Hanafite jurists adopting this as a secondary source. Contemporary proponents of liberal movements within Islam have used \"istihsan\" and the similar idea of \"istislah\" (Arabic for \"to deem proper\") as ethical principles to favour feminist and reformist interpretations of the Qur'an and Sunnah, thus looking to reform Islamic law.\n\n' ( ) is an Arabic word derived from the word \"al-husn\" () which means good which is the opposite meaning of \"al-qubh\" () which means bad. The word ' is used to express \"decorating or improving or considering something good\". It also applies to mean something towards which one is inclined or which one prefers, even if it is not approved by others.\nTechnically it has been defined in several ways by Muslim jurists:\n\nA number of categorisations have been employed by the jurists:\n\nThe following comprise classical examples for this principle:\n\nAl-Shafi'i viewed the practice of juristic preference as a heretical usurping God's sole right as the legislator of Islamic law. It has been alleged that this criticism revolves more around the linguistic meaning of the term rather than its technical meaning, though modern scholarship regards Shafi'is comments as a direct criticism of the technical meaning. Malik ibn Anas is noted to have been asked about binding divorce. When he delivered his response, a disciple of his quickly reached for a tablet to make note of this ruling. Upon realizing what his disciple was doing, Malik asked him to stop, remarking that his opinion could change before nightfall.\n\nSarakhsi points out that some jurists have criticised Istihsan on the grounds that the analogy is being given up for personal opinion, something prohibited in Islam. He refutes this understanding as incomprehensible, as no jurist would give up an authority for something that lacked evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "55121606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55121606", "title": "Jakarta Charter", "text": "Jakarta Charter\n\nThe Jakarta Charter was a document drawn up by members of the Indonesian Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence in June 1945 that subsequently formed the basis of the preamble to the Constitution of Indonesia. It included an obligation for Muslims to abide by Shariah law.\n\nIn March 1945, the Japanese military authority in Java during the Japanese occupation of Indonesia established the Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence (\"Badan Penyelidik Usaha Persiapan Kemerdekaan\" (BPUPK)) to decide on key issues related to the future independent state, including its constitution. There was a clear division on the committee between those who wanted a secular state and those who wanted a greater role for Islam. On 1 June, the last day of the first session, nationalist and future Indonesian president Sukarno made a speech outlining the Pancasila - the five principles that would form the ideological basis of the new state. A sub-committee of eight members, the \"panitia kecil\" (small committee), was set up with Sukarno as chairman to discuss the issues that had emerged.\n\nIn the recess between the two BPUPK sessions, at the urging of future president Sukarno, 38 members met and decided to task a committee of nine members, the \"Panitia Sembilan\", with starting to draft the constitution. These members, and their affiliations were:\n\n\nOver the course of the afternoon of 22 June, the nine men produced a preamble for the constitution that included Sukarno's Pancasila philosophy, but added the seven words in Indonesian (\"dengan kewajiban menjalankan syariat Islam bagi pemeluknya\") that placed an obligation on Muslims to abide by Islamic law. Mohammad Yamin, who played a dominant role in the wording, named the preamble the Jakarta Charter.\n\nOn 17 August 1945, Sukarno declared Indonesian independence. The following day, the Preparatory Committee for Indonesian Independence (PPKI), which had been established with Japanese permission on 7 August, was due to meet. Hatta in particular and Sukarno were both worried that the obligation on Muslims would alienate non-Muslims. Before the meeting, Hatta met with Muslim leaders and managed to persuade them to agree to the removal of the seven words \"for the sake of national unity\". The PPKI then met and elected Sukarno and Hatta president and vice-president respectively. It then discussed the draft constitution, including the preamble. Hatta spoke in favour of removing the seven words, and Balinese delegate, I Gusti Ktut Puja, suggested replacing the Arabic word \"Allah\" with the Indonesian word for God (\"Tuhan\"). This was accepted, but for some reason when the constitution was officially published, this change was not made. Following further discussion, the constitution was approved.\n\nWhen the 1945 constitution was replaced by the United States of Indonesia Federal Constitution of 1949, and this in turn replaced by the Provisional Constitution of 1950, there were no attempts to include the seven words in the preambles, despite their similarity to 1945 version. However, in 1959, the Constitutional Assembly of Indonesia, which had been set up to produce a permanent constitution, reached deadlock as the Islamist fraction wanted a greater role for Islam, but like the other factions, did not have enough support to win the two-thirds majority to push through its proposals. The Islamist faction supported the government's proposal to return to the 1945 Constitution on condition that the obligation on Muslims be re-inserted in the preamble. The nationalist faction voted this down, and in response, the Islamist faction vetoed the reintroduction of the 1945 Constitution. On 9 July 1959, Sukarno issued a decree dissolving the assembly and reinstating the original constitution, but without the seven words the Islamists wanted. To placate them, Sukarno stated that his decree relied on the Jakarta Charter, which had inspired the 1945 Constitution and which was an \"inseparable\" part of it, but was not a legal part of it.\n\nThere were two further attempts to revive the Jakarta Charter. In the 1968 special session of the Provisional People's Consultative Assembly (MPR), Parmusi, a new Islamist party, called for it to have legal force, but the proposal was voted down. In 2002, during the MPR session that passed the final amendments to the constitutions, a number of small Islamic parties with the support of Vice-president Hamzah Haz tried again, this time by amending the Article 29 of the constitution to make shariah law obligatory on Muslims, but they were resoundingly defeated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2523135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2523135", "title": "List of Hague Conventions on Private International Law", "text": "List of Hague Conventions on Private International Law\n\nThis is a list of Conventions signed at The Hague by member states of the Hague Conference on Private International Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6507496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6507496", "title": "List of members of the European Court of Justice", "text": "List of members of the European Court of Justice\n\nThe following is a list of all past and present members of the European Court of Justice in the official order of precedence:\n\n\"As of 8 October 2018:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "414267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414267", "title": "Lust murder", "text": "Lust murder\n\nA lust murder is a homicide in which the offender searches for erotic satisfaction by killing someone. \"Lust murder\" is synonymous with the paraphilic term erotophonophilia, which is sexual arousal or gratification contingent on the death of a human being. The phrase \"lust killing\" stems from the original work of Richard von Krafft-Ebing in his 1898 discussion of sadistic homicides. Commonly, this type of crime is manifested either by murder during sexual activity, by mutilating the sexual organs or areas of the victim's body, or by murder and mutilation. The mutilation of the victim may include evisceration, displacement of the sexual organs, or both. The mutilation usually takes place postmortem. Although the killing sequence may include an act of sexual intercourse, sexual intercourse does not always occur, and other types of sexual acts may be part of the homicide. \n\nLust murder sometimes includes activities such as removing clothing from the body, posing and propping of the body in different positions (generally sexual ones), insertion of objects into bodily orifices, anthropophagy (the consumption of human blood and/or flesh) and necrophilia (the performing of sex acts on a human corpse).\n\nMost cases of lust murder involve male perpetrators, although accounts of female lust murderers do exist. In general, lust murder is a phenomenon most common among serial killers. These offenders have made a connection between murder and sexual gratification. When this type of offender chooses a victim there must be something about that victim that the offender finds sexually attractive. This attractive trait might be common among all of the offender's victims and is called the offender's Ideal Victim Type (IVT). There might be many potential targets that an offender passes by because they do not meet their IVT. Once the offender has found a victim who is ideal, they might engage in stalking or other predatory behaviors before acting out their fantasy on their victim. Fantasies are a key component in lust murders and can never be completely fulfilled. The lust killer will have a fantasy that continues to evolve over time and becomes increasingly violent as they struggle to fulfill it.\n\nThe most critical component in the psychological development of a serial killer is violent fantasy, especially in the lust murderer. Fantasies accompany \"intrusive thoughts about killing someone that are associated with other distressing psychopathological processes\". Fantasies can never be completely fulfilled; sometimes the experience of killing can generate new fantasies of violence, creating a repetitive cycle. The purpose of fantasy is total control of the victim, whereas a sexual assault can be used as a vehicle for control. Sexual torture becomes a tool to degrade, humiliate, and subjugate the victim. Often victims are selected by the killer to stand as a proxy, resulting from childhood trauma. Fantasies may be fueled by pornography and facilitated by alcohol or other causes. Typically, fantasies involve one or several forms of paraphilia.\n\nThe term \"lust murder\" is also used in a related, but slightly different sense, to refer to an individual who gains \"sexual arousal\" from the act of committing murder, or has persistent \"sexual fantasies\" of committing murder, even if the murder itself does not involve the genital mutilation or other aforementioned characteristics. As such, it is a type of paraphilia.\n\nAlthough the dynamic of violent fantasy in lust murders is understood, an individual's violence fantasy alone is not enough to determine if an individual has or has not engaged in lust murder. Moreover, to conclude that an individual is the murderer because they have drawn multitudes of violent images is overreaching. The Perri and Lichtenwald article illustrates the critical importance of homicide detectives employing the Criminal Investigative Analysis model developed by Roy Hazelwood FBI (ret.), profiler and one of the top researchers in the field of lust murders.\n"}
{"id": "4361417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4361417", "title": "Medical Examination of Young Persons (Underground Work) Convention, 1965", "text": "Medical Examination of Young Persons (Underground Work) Convention, 1965\n\nMedical Examination of Young Persons (Underground Work) Convention, 1965 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1965, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to medical examination of young persons for fitness for employment underground in mines...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 41 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "41399695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41399695", "title": "Ministerial order", "text": "Ministerial order\n\nA ministerial decree or ministerial order is a decree by a ministry. With a ministerial decree the administrative department is delegated the task to impose a formal judgement or mandate. Ministerial decrees are usually imposed under the authority of the department's chief minister, secretary or administrator.\n\nIn Belgium, a ministerial decree (, ) is a decision of a minister of the federal government. The Belgian Constitution stipulates that the King of Belgium, in practice the federal government as a whole, is responsible for the execution of laws adopted by the federal parliament. This is done by royal order. For more detailed measures, the minister responsible can act alone by ministerial order. Ministerial orders must be published in the Belgian Official Journal before they can enter into force.\n\nIn Canada, a ministerial order () is a decision made by a Minister of the Crown, that does not necessitate the approval of the Cabinet, or the Lieutenant Governor in Council/Governor General of Canada. The operations surrounding ministerial orders differs between the federal government and the governments of the provinces of Canada. For instance, in Alberta, ministerial orders are not automatically made public.\n\nIn Spain, a ministerial decree (Spanish: \"orden ministerial\") is a regulation issued by any of the government ministries. In the legal hierarchy, it sits below a \"Real Decreto del Presidente del Gobierno\" (Royal Decree of the Prime Minister) and a \"Real Decreto del Consejo de Ministros\" (Royal Decree of the Council of Ministers). Ministerial decrees are produced not only by ministers in affairs relating to their own departments, but also by delegate commissions formed to deal with matters that affect several ministries.\n\nIn the United Kingdom a ministerial decree is known as a \"ministerial order.\" Until 2013 there was only one example, the Competition and Service (Utilities) Act 1992 (Commencement No. 1) Order 1992. \n\nThe order was made under powers contained in section 56(2) of the Competition and Service (Utilities) Act 1992, which allowed the Secretary of State to provide for the commencement of the Act \"by order\". However, presumably due to an oversight in the drafting process, the Act did not provide for such an order to be made by statutory instrument as defined by the Statutory Instruments Act 1946. No other commencement orders have been made under the relevant powers, and until 2013 this remained the only \"ministerial order\" in existence.\n\nIn 2013 the ministerial order became a more common type of legislation, as it was used 27 times that year, under the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009; such continued in 2016. In 2015, The Sewerage Undertakers (Information) (Revocation) Direction 2015 was given under section 202 of the Water Industry Act 1991.\n"}
{"id": "12519354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12519354", "title": "Mpumalanga Witchcraft Suppression Bill", "text": "Mpumalanga Witchcraft Suppression Bill\n\nIn June 2007 the Office of the Premier of the Mpumalanga province in South Africa leaked a draft Mpumalanga Witchcraft Suppression Bill of 2007.\n\nUnlike the \"Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957\" (which was directed against witch-hunting), the proposed Witchcraft Control Act would explicitly acknowledge the existence of witchcraft and criminalise it.\n\nDrafting of the Bill was suspended the following year following opposition from traditional healers and Neopagans which also led to a review of existing national witchcraft legislation by the South African Law Reform Commission.\n\nDespite the ongoing existence of the national \"Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957\" based on colonial witchcraft legislation, which criminalises the \"pretence of witchcraft\" and accusations of witchcraft, violent witch-hunts have persisted in rural areas of South Africa. Various legislative reforms have been proposed to try and address this complex problem.\n\nThe principal tenets of the ANC's 1994 National Health Plan with respect to traditional healers include the right of access to traditional practitioners as part of their cultural heritage and belief system and the control of traditional practitioners by a recognised and accepted body so that harmful practices can be eliminated and the profession promoted. This ultimately led to the national \"Traditional Health Practitioners Act of 2007\" which the National Department of Health only started to implement in December 2011 under pressure from frustrated traditional healers.\n\nIn 1995 the Minister of Safety and Security of the Northern Province commissioned the Commission of Enquiry into Witchcraft Violence and Ritual Murder in the Northern Province of the Republic of South Africa chaired by Professor Victor Ralushai. The Committee proposed a new national \"Witchcraft Control Act\" including penalties for practising, or pretending to practise, witchcraft and also recommended new legislation to regulate traditional healers. Unlike the \"Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957\", the proposed \"Witchcraft Control Act\" would explicitly acknowledge the existence of witchcraft and criminalise it.\n\nThe Ralushai Commission defined a witch as follows in their report: \n\nTestifying before a Truth and Reconciliation Commission amnesty hearing in July 1999 about his knowledge about witchcraft matters and other related issues, Professor Ralushai defined a witch as follows when requested to do so by practising attorney Patrick Ndou: \n\nIn 1998 the Commission for Gender Equality issued the \"Thohoyandou Declaration on Ending Witchcraft Violence\", recommending urgent legislative reform to mitigate harmful witchcraft practices and violent witch hunts including new legislation to regulate the practices and conduct of traditional healers.\n\nThe draft \"Mpumalanga Witchcraft Suppression Bill of 2007\" expanded on the \"Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957\", defining witchcraft as harmful magic and attempting to regulate the conduct of traditional healers in Mpumalanga.\n\nThe Mpumalanga Department of Local Government was mandated by the Provincial Executive Council to draft a Bill to address the high level of violence in the province caused by allegations of witchcraft.\n\nThe Bill was mentioned in the 2007/08 Budget speech for the Mpumalanga Provincial Government's Department of Local Government and Housing delivered on 31 May 2007: \n\nIn July 2007 members of organisations representing Neopagans and traditional healers met with officials of the Mpumalanga Provincial Government's Department of Local Government and Housing to discuss their concerns about the Bill from very different cultural viewpoints.\nPagans who self-identify as Witches, albeit in a contemporary Western sense, objected to the unconstitutional suppression of their religious beliefs and practices and the negative stereotype of witchcraft in the Bill:\n\nTraditional healers objected to an \"inyanga\", a local term for a traditional healer, and \"muti\", a local term for medicine, being associated with harmful practices and traditional healers effectively being labelled as witches, the witch term having strong negative connotations in an Afrocentric context: \n\nOn 24 June 2008 the Mpumalanga Provincial Government issued a statement that they had suspended drafting of the Bill until further notice after consultation with different stakeholders.\n\nThe South African Pagan Rights Alliance first approached the South African Law Reform Commission regarding the constitutionality of the \"Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957\" in February 2007, prior to the leaking of the Mpumalanga Bill. The South African Law Reform Commission subsequently received further submissions from the South African Pagan Rights Alliance and the Traditional Healers Organization requesting the investigation of the constitutionality of both the \"Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957\" and the \"Mpumalanga Witchcraft Suppression Bill of 2007\". On 23 March 2010 the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development approved a South African Law Reform Commission project to review witchcraft legislation.\n\nIn March 2012 the South African Law Reform Commission advised that Ms Jennifer Joni has been designated as researcher and Judge Dennis Davis has been designated as project leader for Project 135: Review of witchcraft legislation. Dr Theodore Petrus, who completed a doctoral thesis on witchcraft-related crime in 2009, was invited to become part of an advisory committee to assist in the review.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6319086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6319086", "title": "Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions", "text": "Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions\n\nThe Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI; ) is an independent agency of the Government of Canada reporting to the Minister of Finance created \"to contribute to public confidence in the Canadian financial system\". It is the sole regulator of banks, and the primary regulator of insurance companies, trust companies, loan companies and pension plans in Canada.\n\nThe current Superintendent is Jeremy Rudin, appointed in June 2014. He replaced Julie Dickson, who retired. The term of the appointment is seven years. \nThe Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) was created to contribute to public confidence in the Canadian financial system. \n\nOSFI's role is to:\n\n\nOSFI’s legislation has due regard to the need to allow institutions to compete effectively and take reasonable risks. The legislation also recognizes that management, boards of directors and plan administrators are ultimately responsible and that financial institutions and pension plans can fail. \n\nThe Office of the Chief Actuary, which is part of OSFI, provides actuarial services to the Government of Canada.\n\n\nLate 1800s – establishment of the Office of the Superintendent of Insurance (OSI), which subsequently became the Department of Insurance (DOI). The DOI was responsible for overseeing federally licensed life insurance companies, property and casualty insurance companies, trust and loan companies and pension plans, and for providing actuarial services to the government. \n\n1925 – the Office of the Inspector General of Banks was established in response to the Home Bank failure and was responsible for regulating Canada's chartered banks. \n\nEarly 1930s – Royal Commission on Banking and Currency reviewed banking and currency issues in the Canadian financial system. \n\nEarly 1960s – Porter Royal Commission reviewed structural and operational issues affecting the financial system and financial institutions in Canada. The Commission's report concluded the financial system was sound, but developments had moved beyond the current state of laws and regulatory practices. Porter argued the public could not be insulated from loss in dealing with public institutions and markets. The Commission called for a system that would provide for adequate disclosure and that would set high standards of self-regulation, backed by strong government supervision and powers to enforce proper practices. \n\n1967 – the Minister of Finance introduced legislation to establish the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation (CDIC) to ensure the safety of small deposits and bring about a gradual improvement in the minimum financial standard of deposit-taking institutions in Canada. In 1983, legislative amendments extended CDIC's mandate to include assisting to maintain public confidence and stability in the financial system. \n\nMid-1980s – increased international competition and the failure of two Canadian banks and the subsequent enquiry into these failures by the Honourable Willard Z. Estey highlighted the need to ensure a sound approach to handling the risks associated with the financial marketplace. \n\nJuly 1987 – to ensure a coordinated approach to supervision and a modern regulatory framework for Canada's financial system, and acting on the recommendations of the Estey commission, the government proclaimed the Financial Institutions and Deposit Insurance Amendment Act and the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Act. This latter Act joined the Department of Insurance and the Office of the Inspector General of Banks to form OSFI, which was given the powers to supervise and regulate all federally regulated financial institutions. \n\nMay 1996 – Bill C-15 receives Royal Assent. This new legislation clarifies OSFI's prime responsibilities as helping to minimize losses to depositors, policy holders, and pension plan members and to maintain public confidence in the Canadian financial system. Preventing failure of financial institutions is not part of OSFI's mandate; however, promoting sound business practices helps reduce the risk that financial institutions will fail. The mandate stresses the importance of early intervention to achieve OSFI's objectives and establishes the basis for OSFI's mission, objectives, priorities and strategies.\n\nNO LONGER VALID -> http://www.osfi-bsif.gc.ca/osfi/index_e.aspx?ArticleID=1534\n<br>\nhttp://www.osfi-bsif.gc.ca/Eng/osfi-bsif/Pages/hst.aspx\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22692486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22692486", "title": "Ovoferrin", "text": "Ovoferrin\n\nOvoferrin was a tonic originally produced in the United States by A.C. Barnes Company of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and later by Zonite Products Corporation, which acquired A.C. Barnes Company in 1929. The product grossed approximately $400,000 annually in 1929. Both Ovoferrin and Argyrol continued to be exclusively manufactured by A.C. Barnes Company, which became a subsidiary of Zonite Products Corporation. On January 2, 1946 Ovoferrin and Argyrol were assigned to Erwin, Wasey & Company, a New York based advertising agency.\n\nOvoferrin's manufacturer described its makeup as being neutral in reaction. A tablespoon was stated to be equivalent to a single grain of elementary iron. When potassium ferrocyanide is added to Ovorferrin no change is observed. However the addition of hydrochloric acid to Ovoferrin produces a well-known color and precipitate of Prussian blue. This indicates that hydrochloric acid changes Ovoferrin, producing an inorganic\niron.\n"}
{"id": "1019827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019827", "title": "Polity", "text": "Polity\n\nA polity is any kind of political entity. It is a group of people who are collectively united by a self-reflected cohesive force such as identity, who have a capacity to mobilize resources, and are organized by some form of institutionalized hierarchy.\n\nA polity can be manifested in many different forms, such as a state, an empire, an international organization, a political organization and other identifiable, resource-manipulating organizational structures. A polity, like a state, does not need to be a sovereign unit. The most preeminent polities today are Westphalian states and nation-states, commonly referred to as \"nations\".\n\nIt therefore encapsulates a vast multitude of organizations, many of which form the fundamental apparatus of contemporary states such as their subordinate civil and local government authorities. Polities do not need to be in control of any geographic areas, as not all political entities and governments have controlled the resources of one fixed geographic area. The historical Steppe Empires originating from the Eurasian Steppe are the most prominent example of non-sedentary polities. These polities differ from \"states\" because of their lack of a fixed, defined territory. \"Empires\" also differ from \"states\" in that their territories are not statically defined or permanently fixed, and consequently that their body politic was also dynamic and fluid.\n\nIt is useful, then, to think of a polity as a political community. A polity can be defined either as a faction within a larger (usually state) entity or, at different times, as the entity itself. Kurds in Iraqi Kurdistan, for example, are parts of their own separate and distinct polity. They are also, though, members of the sovereign state of Iraq which is itself a polity, albeit one which is much less specific and, as a result, much less cohesive. It is therefore possible for an individual to belong to more than one polity at a time.\n\nThomas Hobbes was a highly significant figure in the conceptualisation of polities, and in particular of states. Hobbes considered notions of the state and the body politic in his most notable work, \"Leviathan\".\n\nIn previous centuries, \"body politic\" was also understood to mean \"the physical person of the sovereign:\" emperor, king or dictator in monarchies and despotisms, and the electorate in republics. As many polities have become more democratic in the last few centuries the body politic, where sovereignty is bestowed, has grown to a much greater size than simply the ruling elite, such as the monarchy. In present times, it may also refer to the representation of a group, such as ones drawn along ethnic or gender lines. Cabinets in liberal democracies are chosen to represent the body politic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158890", "title": "Quo warranto", "text": "Quo warranto\n\nIn British and American common law, quo warranto (Medieval Latin for \"by what warrant?\") is a prerogative writ requiring the person to whom it is directed to show what authority they have for exercising some right, power, or franchise they claim to hold.\n\nWith the spread of royal justice in the 12th and 13th centuries, private franchises and liberties were increasingly called upon to uphold the king's peace: to act against \"malefactors and peace breakers, so that it may appear that you are a lover of our peace\". From 1218 onwards, royal Eyres also began using the old writ of \"quo warranto\" – a court order to show proof of authority, as for example (literally) \"By what warrant are you the sheriff?\" – to investigate the origins of such franchises. An inquest of 1255 began examining such liberties nationwide; and the same enquiry was taken up again by King Edward I of England in 1278, when he decreed in the Statute of Gloucester that \"We must find out what is ours, and due to us, and others what is theirs, and due to them\".\n\nFrom one point of view this can be seen as an attempt to investigate and recover royal lands, rights, and franchises in England, in particular those lost during the reign of his father, King Henry III of England. From another, it was less of an attack on franchises as a clarification of them: in Hilda Johnstone's words, \"Edward's aim, it is clear, was from the first not abolition but definition\".\n\nA similar ambiguity surrounds the role of the justices that, from 1278 to 1294, Edward dispatched throughout the Kingdom of England to inquire \"by what warrant\" English lords claimed their liberties and exercised jurisdiction, including the right to hold a court and collect its profits. Some of the justices demanded written proof in the form of charters, others accepted a plea of \"Immemorial tenure\"; and resistance and the unrecorded nature of many grants meant that eventually, by the Statute of Quo Warranto (1290), the principle was generally accepted that those rights peacefully exercised since 1189 – the beginning of the reign of Richard I, which is the legal definition in England of the phrase \"time immemorial\" – were legitimate. \n\nThe \"Quo warranto\" pleas from the reigns of Edward I, Edward II and Edward III were published by the Record Commission in 1818.\n\nThe most famous historical instance of \"quo warranto\" was the action taken against the Corporation of London by Charles II in 1683. The King's Bench adjudged the charter and franchises of the City of London to be forfeited to the Crown, though this judgment was reversed by the London, Quo Warranto Judgment Reversed Act 1689 shortly after the Glorious Revolution.\n\nBut the remodelling of the City of London was only part of a wider remodelling of some forty chartered parliamentary boroughs by the Crown – a policy taken up again in 1688 by James II, when some thirty-five new charters were issued after quo warranto produced the surrender of the old ones. This Quo Warranto remodelling or 'dissolution' of the parliamentary corporations gave point to the claim by William III that \"our expedition is intended for no other design but to have a free and lawful parliament assembled\", and underpinned the charge in the Bill of Rights that James had been \"violating the freedom of election by members to serve in parliament\".\n\nIn the United States today, \"quo warranto\" usually arises in a civil case as a plaintiff's claim (and thus a \"cause of action\" instead of a writ) that some governmental or corporate official was not validly elected to that office or is wrongfully exercising powers beyond (or \"ultra vires\") those authorized by statute or by the corporation's charter.\n\nIn some jurisdictions that have enacted judicial review statutes, the prerogative writ of \"quo warranto\" has been abolished. This includes Queensland and New South Wales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7537430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7537430", "title": "Race Equality Directive 2000", "text": "Race Equality Directive 2000\n\nThe Race Equality Directive 2000/43/EC is an Act of the European Union, concerning European labour law. It implements the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. Since the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force in 1999, new EC laws, or Directives, have been enacted in the area of anti-discrimination, and this Directive complements other Directives on gender and age, disability, religion and sexual orientation.\n\nThe principle rules laid down are as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5679309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5679309", "title": "San-nakji", "text": "San-nakji\n\nSan-nakji () is a variety of \"hoe\" (raw dish) made with long arm octopus (\"Octopus minor\"), a small octopus species called \"nakji\" in Korean and is sometimes translated into \"baby octopus\" due to its relatively small size compared to the giant octopus (\"Enteroctopus dofleini\"). The octopuses are most commonly killed before being cut into small pieces and served, with the nerve activity in the octopus' tentacles making the pieces move posthumously on the plate whilst served. The octopus' highly complex nervous system, with two-third of its neurons localised in the nerve cords of its arms, lets the octopus show a variety of reflex actions that persist even when they have no input from the brain. Less commonly, a live octopus is eaten whole. The dish is sprinkled with sesame oil and toasted sesame seeds.\n\nBecause the suction cups on the arm pieces are still active when the dish is served, special care should be taken when eating sannakji. The active suction cups can cause swallowed pieces of arm to stick to the mouth or throat. This can also present a choking hazard for some people, particularly if they are intoxicated. \n\nVocabularies in the two Koreas differ on \"nakji\": South Koreans call \"Octopus minor\", a small kind of octopus (often mistranslated as \"baby octopus\") \"nakji\", while North Koreans call a squid \"nakji\" (\"nakchi\" in McCune–Reischauer romanization).\n\n\"Sannakji\" is served in Korean restaurants that serve sliced raw fish, but it also can be found at bars as a snack to accompany alcoholic beverages, such as soju. \n\nConsuming \"sannakji\" is potentially dangerous due to choking hazard. Because the cephalopod's limbs contain neurons, the extremities continue to move and the suction cups along its tentacles maintain their gripping power that might attach to one's throat, even after getting detached from the body and dosed with sesame oil. Several incidents of choking on \"Sannakji\" have been reported, such as a 2008 incident in Gwangju.\n\n"}
{"id": "30032196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30032196", "title": "Scotland Act 2012", "text": "Scotland Act 2012\n\nThe Scotland Act 2012 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It sets out amendments to the Scotland Act 1998, with the aim of devolving further powers to Scotland in accordance with the recommendations of the Calman Commission. It received Royal Assent in 2012.\n\nThe Act gave extra powers to the Scottish Parliament, most notably:\n\n\nThe proposed legislation was based on the final report of the Calman Commission, which was established by an opposition Labour Party motion in the Scottish Parliament in December 2007, against the wishes of the Scottish National Party minority government.\n\nProfessor Jim Gallagher, the civil servant who drafted the Bill, was appointed to advise the Scotland Bill Committee of the Scottish Parliament, convened by Wendy Alexander, whose Parliamentary motion started the whole Calman process.\n\nThe Bill was presented to the House of Commons by the Secretary of State for Scotland, Michael Moore, on St Andrew's Day (30 November), 2010, and received an unopposed second reading on 27 January 2012.\nThe UK government stated that it would not pass the bill unless it had obtained a legislative consent motion from the Scottish Parliament, although the Parliament of the United Kingdom could have passed the Bill in any case. The governing Scottish National Party indicated that it planned to block the bill. However, after a deal was reached between the two governments on 21 March 2012, the Scottish Parliament unanimously passed a legislative consent motion in respect of the Bill on 18 April 2012.\n\nThe Secretary of State for Scotland, Michael Moore, described the legislation as the largest transfer of fiscal powers from central Government since the creation of the United Kingdom.\n\nAlthough the Scottish National Party supported some parts of the Bill as introduced, it opposed others. In particular, it considered that the income tax proposals were flawed. However, the SNP agreed to support the Bill, after the proposals to return certain powers were dropped, and agreement was reached that the details of the income tax changes would be subject to approval by MSPs. After the Bill received legislative consent from the Scottish Parliament, the Cabinet Secretary for Parliamentary Business and Government Strategy, Bruce Crawford, MSP argued that, although the Bill would not harm Scottish interests, it represented a missed opportunity and had been overtaken by events, in particular the return of an SNP majority government in 2011 and the consequent independence referendum.\n\nThere is a proposal to amend section 57(2) of the Scotland Act 1998, which provides that the Lord Advocate, as a member of the Scottish Executive, has no power to do anything in contravention of the European Convention rights. Given that, alongside being the adviser to and representative of the Scottish Government in Scots law, the Lord Advocate is head of the system of criminal prosecution in Scotland and every prosecution in a Scottish court proceeds with his/her authority, this provision effectively allows any human rights issue raised in any criminal proceedings in Scotland effectively to be appealed to the UK Supreme Court as a constitutional \"devolution issue\". The Supreme Court consists of two Supreme Court judges from Scotland and 10 judges from other parts of the United Kingdom. When hearing appeals the Supreme Court sits with a bench of at least five judges, so even if both Scottish judges are present for a Scottish appeal, the majority of the bench will be judges who may not be especially well versed in Scots law and criminal procedure. According to Lord Hope of Craighead, the Deputy President of the Supreme Court, non-Scottish judges will in practice defer to their Scottish colleagues in Scottish cases, and often simply concur with judgements written by the Scottish judges. However, the situation is seen by some, including the Scottish Government, as undermining the status of the High Court of Justiciary as the final court of appeal in criminal matters in Scots law, and even of undermining the integrity of Scots law. The Advocate General for Scotland asked an expert group, chaired by Sir David Edward, to consider this issue and make recommendations, which led to the amendments to the Scotland Bill proposed by the UK Government. The Scottish Government remains concerned that the amendments may not fully address the issue, particularly as a result of the decision of the Supreme Court in Fraser v HM Advocate, and appointed their own expert group, chaired by Lord McCluskey, to consider the matter and report back.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35912068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35912068", "title": "Society for the Suppression of the Opium Trade", "text": "Society for the Suppression of the Opium Trade\n\nThe Anglo-Oriental Society for the Suppression of the Opium Trade, generally known by the somewhat shorter name of Society for the Suppression of the Opium Trade (SSOT), was a British lobbying group in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, opposed to the opium trade.\n\nIn 1874 a group of Quaker businessmen offered a £200 prize for the best essay on the British opium trade. The winner, Rev. Frederick Storrs-Turner, announced his intent to set up a society to oppose the trade, and at a meeting in November of that year the Society for the Suppression of the Opium Trade was formed. Rev. Storrs-Turner became the society's secretary, and the funds for its foundation were provided by Quaker and industrialist Edward Pease (1834–1880) (brother of Sir Joseph Pease, who was later to be president of the society). The first president was the Earl of Shaftsbury, although he was not elected to the post until 1880. An early publicity stunt was the enrollment of Donald Matheson, who had left his family's firm Jardine, Matheson & Co. due to the company's involvement in the opium trade.\n\nThe society quickly became a focal point for the anti-opium movement. Initially, it campaigned on two fronts: lobbying for the British Government to cease its military and diplomatic pressures on China to allow opium imports and removing direct government involvement in the trade in India. After the Chefoo Convention of 1876, when the British Government ceased to pressurise China into allowing opium imports, the Society turned its attention to the Indian production of opium, advocating total prohibition in India except for medical use. \n\nThe Society commanded considerable support in China, partly as a result of its connections to Quaker missions and partly due to the diplomatic efforts of the Society's secretary, Joseph Gundry Alexander (1848-1918), who travelled to China in 1894 and met with many government representatives there to discuss the opium issue. As a result of his report, the Society adopted the view that Chinese condemnation of the opium trade was widespread, a belief at odds with that of the British public. Like many similar organisations, the Society was composed largely of upper- and middle-class politicians, landowners and clergy, and its aims were largely irrelevant to the majority of the British working population. Because of its large Quaker membership, the Society often had a religious tone to its meetings, with prayers and discussion of Biblical content being common. Other Christian organisations, such as the Church of England, were also active in the anti-opium movement. Whilst there were agnostic crusaders against the trade, such as John Morley, this religious sentiment was seized upon by the pro-opium movement, who dismissed the Society's message as histrionic \"hellfire and brimstone\" preaching.\n\nIn his capacity as the Society's president, Sir Joseph Pease attempted to pass a motion in the House of Commons in 1891 to declare the opium trade \"morally indefensible\" and remove Government support for it. The motion failed to pass (despite majority support in the House) due to an amendment calling for compensation to India, but it brought the anti-opium campaign into the public eye and increased opposition to the trade. The Society's campaigning resulted in the creation of a Royal Commission on Opium, but although a member of the Society (Arthur Pease) was on the Commission, its findings were firmly in favour of the trade. As a result, the aims of the anti-opium movement were set back considerably; it was fifteen years before the issue was again debated in Parliament.\n\nIn 1906, the motion proposed by Pease in 1891 was once again put before Parliament. This time it was successful, and in response the Chinese passed laws prohibiting the manufacture of opium. The Society disbanded in 1917, having achieved its goals when the British finally ended the opium trade between India and China in 1913.\n\nThe society published a regular newspaper, \"The Friend of China\", which appeared, on average, eight times each year and was circulated both in the United Kingdom and among missionary communities in China. Rev. Storrs-Turner was the editor. It also published books condemning the opium trade, such as Joshua Rowntree's \"The Imperial Drug Trade\" and Benjamin Broomhall \"The Truth About Opium Smoking\".\n\n"}
{"id": "908709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908709", "title": "Status of forces agreement", "text": "Status of forces agreement\n\nA status of forces agreement (SOFA) is an agreement between a host country and a foreign nation stationing military forces in that country. SOFAs are often included, along with other types of military agreements, as part of a comprehensive security arrangement. A SOFA does not constitute a security arrangement; it establishes the rights and privileges of foreign personnel present in a host country in support of the larger security arrangement. Under international law a status of forces agreement differs from military occupation.\n\nWhile the United States military has the largest foreign presence and therefore accounts for most SOFAs, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Germany, Italy, Russia, Spain, and many other nations also station military forces abroad and negotiate SOFAs with their host countries. In the past, the Soviet Union had SOFAs with most of its satellite states. While most of the United States' SOFAs are public, some remain classified.\n\nA SOFA is intended to clarify the terms under which the foreign military is allowed to operate. Typically, purely military operational issues such as the locations of bases and access to facilities are covered by separate agreements. A SOFA is more concerned with the legal issues associated with military individuals and property. This may include issues such as entry and exit into the country, tax liabilities, postal services, or employment terms for host-country nationals, but the most contentious issues are civil and criminal jurisdiction over bases and personnel. For civil matters, SOFAs provide for how civil damages caused by the forces will be determined and paid. Criminal issues vary, but the typical provision in U.S. SOFAs is that U.S. courts will have jurisdiction over crimes committed either by a servicemember against another servicemember or by a servicemember as part of his or her military duty, but the host nation retains jurisdiction over other crimes.\n\nIn many host nations, especially those with a large foreign military presence such as South Korea and Japan, the SOFA can become a major political issue following crimes allegedly committed by servicemembers. This is especially true when the incidents involve crimes such as robbery, murder, manslaughter or sex crimes, especially when the charge is defined differently in the two nations. For example, in 2002 in South Korea, a U.S. military AVLB bridge-laying vehicle on the way to the base camp after a training exercise accidentally killed two girls. Under the SOFA, a United States military court martial tried the soldiers involved. The panel found the act to be an accident and acquitted the service members of negligent homicide, citing no criminal intent or negligence. The U.S. military accepted responsibility for the incident and paid civil damages. This resulted in widespread outrage in South Korea, demands that the soldiers be retried in a South Korean court, the airing of a wide variety of conspiracy theories, and a backlash against the local expatriate community.\nAs of 2011, American military authorities are allowing South Korea to charge and prosecute American soldiers in South Korean courts. After three brutal rapes and an arson case in 2011, convictions in South Korean courts occurred. The soldiers are, or will soon be, jailed in South Korean facilities.\nSoon after the rapes and other instances, the peninsula wide military curfew was reinstated.\n\nMost crimes by servicemembers against local civilians occur off duty, and in accordance with the particular SOFA are considered subject to local jurisdiction. Details of the SOFAs can still prompt issues. In Japan, for example, the SOFA includes the provision that service members are not turned over to the local authorities until they are charged in a court. In a number of cases, local officials have complained that this impedes their ability to question suspects and investigate the crime. American officials allege that the Japanese police use coercive interrogation tactics and are concerned more with attaining a high conviction rate than finding \"justice\". American authorities also note the difference in police investigation powers, as well as the judiciary. No lawyer can be present in investigation discussions in Japan, though a translator is provided, and no mention made of an equivalent to America's Miranda rights. Another issue is the lack of jury trials in Japan, previous to 2009 all trials were decided by a judge or panel of judges. Currently, Japan uses a lay judge system in some criminal trials. For these reasons American authorities insist that service members be tried in military tribunals and reject article 98 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.\n\nThe political issue of SOFAs is complicated by the fact that many host countries have mixed feelings about foreign bases on their soil, and demands to renegotiate the SOFA are often combined with calls for foreign troops to leave entirely. Issues of different national customs can arise – while the U.S. and host countries generally agree on what constitutes a crime, many U.S. observers feel that host country justice systems grant a much weaker set of protections to the accused than the U.S. and that the host country's courts can be subject to popular pressure to deliver a guilty verdict; furthermore, that American servicemembers ordered to a foreign posting should not be forced to give up the rights they are afforded under the Bill of Rights. On the other hand, host country observers, having no local counterpart to the Bill of Rights, often feel that this is an irrelevant excuse for demanding special treatment, and resembles the extraterritorial agreements demanded by Western countries during colonialism. One host country where such sentiment is widespread, South Korea, itself has forces in Kyrgyzstan and has negotiated a SOFA that confers total immunity to its servicemembers from prosecution by Kyrgyz authorities for any crime whatsoever, something far in excess of the privileges many South Koreans object to in their nation's SOFA with the United States.\n\nTo many U.S. observers, the fact that most accused criminals eventually end up being tried in a local court and found guilty proves that the system is working; to some host country observers, it reinforces the perception that the SOFA protects the guilty and makes the exceptions more glaring.\n\nA visiting forces agreement is similar to a status of forces agreement except the former covers only forces temporarily in a country, not based there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35729198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35729198", "title": "The Laskin Moot", "text": "The Laskin Moot\n\nThe Laskin Moot Court Competition, also known as The Laskin Moot, is an annual mooting competition in Canada. It is named after Bora Laskin, the fourteenth Chief Justice of Canada.\n\nThe Laskin Moot is unique in Canada as it was originally the only bilingual moot competition in the country, conducted in both of the official languages of English and French. At least one participant of each team must moot in the other language from that used by the other members of the team. The subject of the moot is always in the area of administrative law. The Laskin Moot attracts teams from most of the twenty-three law schools in Canada. It is hosted each year by a different Canadian law school and is held typically in late February or early March.\n\nThe following is a list of law schools that have hosted the Laskin Moot since 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "5390587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390587", "title": "Third country national", "text": "Third country national\n\nThird Country National (TCN) is a term often used in the context of migration, referring to individuals who are in transit and/or applying for visas in countries that are not their country of origin (i.e. country of transit), in order to go to destination countries that is likewise not their country of origin. In the European Union, the term is often used, together with \"foreign national\" and \"non-EU foreign national\", to refer to individuals who are neither from the EU country in which they are currently living or staying, nor from other member states of the European Union.\n\nIn terms of employment, the term is often used to designate \"an employee working temporarily in an assignment country, who is neither a national of the assignment country nor of the country in which the corporate headquarters is located.\"\n\nIn the US, it is often used to describe individuals of other nationalities hired by a government or government sanctioned contractor who represent neither the contracting government nor the host country or area of operations. This is most often those performing on government contracts in the role of a private military contractor. The term can also be used to describe foreign workers employed by private industry and citizens in a country such as Kuwait in which it is common to outsource work to non-citizens.\n\nAccording to IRIN,\n\nUnlike refugees who are protected by international conventions, third-country nationals (TCNs), who neither belong to the country of refuge or the one they fled, are not covered by any global rights conventions. It is often up to their governments to look after them and arrange for their repatriation.\nGenerally speaking, the US government classifies contract personnel under one of three headings:\nExamples of this hierarchy are as follows:\n\nContract personnel being used by the US government to fight the global war on terror in Iraq consist of Expats, namely those personnel of US citizenship that represent a private military contractor being contracted by the US Government, Indigenous Iraqi and Kurdish personnel and TCNs such as are currently being employed by many of the Private Military Contracting Firms currently under contract.\n\nTCNs such as have been employed by the United States military (through contractors) for operations in the Middle East for many years. The accommodations, security, and treatment of TCNs can vary greatly from the way that U.S. and multinational coalition personnel are treated. Their contracts often require them to work for four years continuously without a break to return to their home countries. Many TCN contractors have also been lured by preemployment deals that have guaranteed them the job as long as they give a percentage of their pay to an 'employment agent' or 'representative'. TCN housing compounds are generally in less secure areas outside of the main base. As a result, many TCNs in such high-risk areas have been injured or killed, however most military installations will provide life-saving medical care as required.\n\nSince April 2006, the Pentagon now demands that contractors fight labor trafficking and low quality working conditions in Iraq endured by tens of thousands of low-paid south Asians working under US-funded contracts in Iraq.\n\nIn an April 19 memorandum to all Pentagon contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Joint Contracting Command demands that the widespread practice of taking away workers passports come to end. Contractors engaging in the practice, states the memo, must immediately \"cease and desist.\"\n\n\"All passports will be returned to employees by 1 May 06. This requirement will be flowed down to each of your subcontractors performing work in this theater.\"\n\nDespite the Pentagon crackdown, civilian contractors still report problems of poor working conditions.\n\nIn Europe, the word \"third country national\" is often used for any person who is not a citizen of the European Union within the meaning of Art. 20(1) of TFEU and who is not a person enjoying the European Union right to free movement, as defined in Art. 2(5) of the Regulation (EU) 2016/399 (Schengen Borders Code).\n\nSome European regulations deal with \"third country national\", for instance:\n\nDepending on the used definition, people from NO, IS, LI (European Economic Area) and CH might be considered as \"third country national\" or non \"third country national\".\n\nWhile EU nationals might have a right to cross internal borders, such right might be more limited for TCN.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8213971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8213971", "title": "Tithes in Judaism", "text": "Tithes in Judaism\n\nThe tithe is specifically mentioned in the Books of Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy. The tithe system was organized in a seven-year cycle, the seventh-year corresponding to the \"Shemittah\"-cycle in which year tithes were broken-off, and in every third and sixth-year of this cycle the Second tithe replaced with the Poor man's tithe. These tithes were in reality more like taxes for the people of Israel and were mandatory, not optional giving. This tithe was distributed locally \"within thy gates\" () to support the Levites and assist the poor. Every year, \"Bikkurim\", \"Terumah\", \"Ma'aser Rishon\" and \"Terumat Ma'aser\" were separated from the grain, wine and oil (). Initially, the commandment to separate tithes from one's produce only applied when the entire nation of Israel had settled in the Land of Israel. The Returnees from the Babylonian exile who had resettled the country were a Jewish minority, and who, although they were not obligated to tithe their produce, put themselves under a voluntary bind to do so, and which practice became obligatory upon all. \n\nThe first obligation that was incumbent upon an Israelite or Jew was to separate from his harvested grain (wheat, barley, spelt, etc.), wine (including unpressed grapes) and oil (including unpressed olives) the one-fiftieth portion of these products (or one-fortieth, if he were a man of generosity; and one-sixtieth if he were stingy) and to give the same to a Kohen, who, in turn, would eat such fruits in a state of ritual cleanness, in accordance with a biblical command, \"...and let him not eat of the holy things, until he bathes his flesh in water. And when the sun goes down down, he will be clean, and shall afterward eat of the holy things because it is his food\" (). This obligation was contingent upon the fact that such fruits grew in the Land of Israel. Later, the Rabbis made it an obligation to do the same for all fruits and vegetables grown in the Land of Israel, and not only to such fruits as grain, grapes and olives. With the destruction of the Temple and the cessation of ritual purity, the obligation to separate the \"Terumah\" continued unabated, although it was no longer given to a priest of Aaron's lineage, since bodily defilement was now pervasive. The general practice after the Temple's destruction was to separate the \"Terumah\" from all fruits and vegetables by removing even the slightest portion thereof, and to immediately discard it by burial or some other means of disposal (since it can no longer be eaten in the current state of ritual uncleanness, and those doing so would make themselves liable to extirpation).\n\nThe \"first tithe\" is giving of one tenth of the remaining agricultural produce (after removing from the produce the standard \"Terumah\") to the Levite (or Aaronic priests). Historically, during the First Temple period, the first tithe was given to the Levites. Approximately at the beginning of the Second Temple construction, Ezra and his Beth din implemented its giving to the kohanim.\n\nThe Levites, also known as the Tribe of Levi, were descendants of Levi. They were assistants to the Aaronic priests (who were the children of Aaron and, therefore, a subset of the Tribe of Levi) and did not own or inherit a territorial patrimony (). Their function in society was that of temple functionaries, teachers and trusted civil servants who supervised the weights and scales and witnessed agreements. The goods donated from the other Israeli tribes were their source of sustenance. They received from \"all Israel\" a tithe of food or livestock for support, and in turn would set aside a tenth portion of that tithe (known as the \"Terumat hamaaser\") for the Aaronic priests.\n\nUnlike other offerings which were restricted to consumption within the tabernacle, the \"second tithe\" could be consumed anywhere within the Walls of Jerusalem. On years one, two, four and five of the \"Shemittah\"-cycle, God commanded the Children of Israel to take a second tithe that was to be brought to the place of the Temple (). The owner of the produce was to separate and bring 1/10 of his finished produce to the Old City of Jerusalem, after separating \"Terumah\" and the first tithe, but if the family lived too far from Jerusalem, the tithe could be redeemed upon coins (). Then, the Bible required the owner of the redeemed coins to spend the tithe \"to buy whatever you like: cattle, sheep, wine or other fermented drink, or anything you wish\" (). Implicit in the commandment was an obligation to spend the coins on items meant for human consumption.\n\nIn years three and six of the \"Shemittah\"-cycle the Israelites set aside the (second) tithe instead as the \"poor tithe\", and it was given to the strangers, orphans, and widows.\n\n\"Terumat hamaaser\" was given by the Levite to the Kohen, and was one-tenth of what the Levite had received of the First-tithe. It is alluded to in the Hebrew Bible under the words, \"a tithe (tenth) of the tithe\" (). It, too, was considered \"Terumah\", and was eaten by priests in a state of ritual cleanness. Today, the \"Terumat maaser\" is discarded because of general uncleanness, just as the \"Terumah\" is now discarded.\n\nDemai (Mishnaic Hebrew: ) is a Halakhic term meaning \"dubious,\" referring to agricultural produce, the owner of which was not trusted with regard to the correct separation of the tithes assigned to the Levites, although the \"terumah\" (the part designated unto priests) was believed to have been separated from such fruits. In such \"dubious\" cases, all that was necessary was to separate the one-tenth portion due to the priests from the First Tithe given to the Levites, being the 1/100th part of the whole. The Second Tithe is also removed (redeemed) from the fruit in such cases of doubt.\n\nThe criterion for determining what places require the tithing of produce is any place within the country that was held by the Returnees from the Babylonian exile, as defined in the \"Baraita of the Boundaries\" of the Land of Israel; although today the land might be held by a different entity, or else worked by non-Jews, produce grown in those places would still require the separation of tithes when they come into the hand of an Israelite or Jew.\n\nTithes are broken-off during the Sabbatical year (such as when the ground lies fallow), during which year, all fruits, grains and vegetables that are grown of themselves in that year are considered free and ownerless property. For example, whatever lands were held by those returning from the Babylonian exile at the time of Ezra are forbidden to be ploughed and sown by any Jew during the Seventh year, and even if gentiles were to plough such land and sow it, the produce would be forbidden unto Jews to eat. On the other hand, the extension of such lands held by the people of Israel who departed Egypt and who entered the Land of Canaan under their leader, Joshua, are forbidden to be ploughed by any Jew during the Seventh year, but if gentiles had ploughed such land and sown it, the produce is permitted to be eaten by a Jew. If on a regular week-year, fruits and grains and vegetables, if grown by an Israelite in these places, would require tithing.\n\nAn additional tithe mentioned in the Book of Leviticus () is the cattle tithe, which is to be sacrificed as a \"korban\" at the Temple in Jerusalem.\n\n\"Ma'aser kesafim\" is a tithe that Jews give to charity (tzedakah), something that is done on a voluntary basis, as this practice has not been regulated in Jewish codes of law.\n"}
{"id": "26668957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26668957", "title": "Truce of Leulinghem", "text": "Truce of Leulinghem\n\nThe Truce of Leulinghem was a truce agreed to by Richard II's kingdom of England and its allies, and Charles VI's kingdom of France and its allies, on 18 July 1389, ending the second phase of the Hundred Years' War. England was on the edge of financial collapse and suffering from internal political divisions. On the other side, Charles VI was suffering from a mental illness that handicapped the furthering of the war by the French government. Neither side was willing to concede on the primary cause of the war, the legal status of the Duchy of Aquitaine and the King of England's homage to the King of France through his possession of the duchy. However, both sides faced major internal issues that could badly damage their kingdoms if the war continued. The truce was originally negotiated by representatives of the kings to last three years, but the two kings met in person at Leulinghem, near the English fortress of Calais, and agreed to extend the truce to a twenty-seven years' period. Other provisions were agreed to, in attempts to bring an end to the papal schism, to launch a joint crusade against the Turks in the Balkans, to seal the marriage of Richard to Charles' daughter Isabella along with an 800,000 franc dowry, and to guarantee to continue peace negotiations, in order to establish a lasting treaty between the kingdoms. The treaty brought peace to the Iberian peninsula, where Portugal and Castile were supporting the English and French respectively. The English evacuated all their holdings in northern France except Calais.\n\nThe truce was the result of a decade of failed peace negotiations and inaugurated a thirteen years peace, the longest period of sustained peace during the Hundred Years' War. During the years following the truce, Richard reneged on his agreement to assist in ending the schism, leading the French to unilaterally withdraw from the obedience of either pope and seize Avignon by military force. French foreign policy also began to focus on Italy, and Genoa became a French protectorate. In England, Richard used the lapse in fighting to attack his political enemies and confiscate their lands, which he redistributed as rewards to his supporters. He then left for Ireland to put down a revolt among the Irish chieftains, but during his absence a number of his exiled opponents returned, led by his cousin Henry of Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster. Henry began an insurrection and seized most of England before Richard could return. Upon his return, Richard was imprisoned, and before he was starved to death he was forced to agree to abdicate. Henry was crowned in his place. The French initially interpreted events in England as a repudiation of the truce and raised an army and put garrisons in place on the fronts. Henry IV reaffirmed the truce which remained in place for several more years.\n\nHenry made a number of aggressive political moves against France in the following years, marrying Joanna, widow of the duke of Brittany in April 1402, and forming alliances with several German rulers, including a marriage alliance with Bavaria. Scotland was the first nation to break the truce, invading England in August 1402 in coordination with a revolt in Wales. The French reentered the conflict in September 1403, landing an army in Wales.\n\nIn 1369 the French government repudiated the 1360 Treaty of Brétigny, resuming the Hundred Years' War between the kingdom of France and the kingdom of England and their various allies. The war originated over the King of England's status as both a French duke and also an English king, creating conflicting interests in many of his actions. The French had declared the English duchy in southwestern France forfeit, beginning the war. The English won the first phase, and the treaty granted the English possession of the duchy as a fief independent of France. During the ensuing decade of peace, the French government strengthened and determined to establish control over the duchy. For nearly two decades, the French pursued a military policy of avoiding direct battle with the English armies and wearing them down by attrition. Although the English won a few victories, eventually almost all of their gains from the earlier phases of the war were lost, including all of the Duchy of Aquitaine except for a narrow coastal strip from Bordeaux to the border of Navarre.\n\nBy 1389 England was in the midst of political divisions. King Richard II, favoured making peace because the English parliament refused to grant sufficient funds to prosecute the war, the population had twice risen in revolt of the high taxation, and the nobility, led by his uncle the Duke of Gloucester, was attempting to subvert his control over the kingdom. France was also suffering from internal crisis. Charles VI was having recurring attacks of mental illness that paralyzed the government. During the 1380s a series of revolts occurred in the kingdom as a result of high taxation, beginning with the Harelle in 1383. As a result of these difficulties, the two kingdoms had been making attempts to negotiate a peace throughout the decade.\n\nIn June 1389, high-level diplomats finished negotiations on a formal peace treaty in the town of Leulinghem, a town just outside Calais. England and its allies, Portugal, Ghent and the Duchy of Guelders, had been represented in the negotiations by John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, and Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester, the uncles of Richard II. France and its allies, the Kingdom of Castile and the Kingdom of Scotland, were represented by Philip the Bold, Duke of Burgundy, and John of Valois, Duke of Berry, the uncles of Charles VI. The Kingdom of Aragon, several counties of the low countries, and the Duchy of Brittany had already made peace and became neutral in the conflict. The Holy Roman Empire nominally supported the English position but had remained neutral in the conflict. Lower level diplomats had been working out many of the details of the treaty in the years prior. France, overestimating England's ability to continue prosecuting the war, made major concessions, offering to return all the Duchy of Aquitaine to the English, except for the County of Poitou, permitting the English to maintain their fortress at Calais, and offering an indemnity of 1.5 million francs for English losses. In exchange, the King of England had to agree to do homage to the King of France in exchange for his duchy. The treaty would essentially restore to England everything lost in the course of the war except the full sovereignty of Aquitaine. Both delegations returned to their respective governments to have the treaty approved. In the interim, a three-year truce was agreed to go into effect on 18 July.\n\nThe French government was in effect led by the Duke of Burgundy since Charles VI's incapacity, and French approval was quickly granted. In England, Richard's political position was weak and the House of Commons of England in Parliament was controlled largely by the knights fighting the war. Richard feared open rebellion if he agreed to the treaty without the approval of Parliament, and called a session to consider the treaty. Parliament rejected the treaty, citing their fear of placing the king as a liege of the king of France and suggesting it would effectively make England a client kingdom of France. The Parliament also refused to grant a significant tax grant to continue funding the stalled war.\n\nRichard decided to enact a \"de facto\" peace with the French and use the interim to punish his political enemies. On 15 May 1395 he received a French embassy to negotiate with him personally. It was agreed that he would marry the six-year-old daughter of Charles, Isabelle, and Charles would provide a dowry of 800,000 francs and extend the truce by five years. In exchange Richard began evacuating the ports he controlled in northern France, surrendering them all except Calais. Brest and Cherbourg were only evacuated after substantial payments by the local nobility were made in exchange. The two kings agreed to meet in future and finalize negotiations. Charles, however, remained in a fragile mental state and was frequently unaware of his surroundings. He made a temporary recovery in 1396, and the two kings met privately at Leulinghem over the course of two days and made a number of commitments. They agreed to a joint crusade against the Turks in the Balkans, Richard agreed to support French attempts to end the papal schism and formally accepted Isabelle as his wife and received his dowry. The truce was extended by another nineteen years, and both men agreed to continue negotiations towards a permanent peace. With negotiations complete, both kings returned to their respective capitals and the truce remained in effect.\n\nIn the aftermath of the treaty, Richard began executing revenge against his political enemies. Several men with large landed estates were dispossessed and executed or exiled. Their property was assigned to allies of Richard, who was attempting to create a block of allies in central England. Richard failed to send support for the crusade against the Turks; the French contingent, which contained many of France's prominent fighters, was annihilated at the Battle of Nicopolis in September 1396. Some of Richard's advisers suggested reopening the war, but he rejected the idea. Richard also repudiated his agreement to end the papal schism and continued to support the Roman pope over the Avignon pope. This led the French to unilaterally withdraw support for either pope and to seize Avignon by force. Richard's attacks against the landed nobility were met with hostility which remained suppressed for a time. After the death of John of Gaunt in 1399, Richard seized his duchy from his exiled son, Henry of Bolingbroke. Bolingbroke had taken up residence in Paris, where many of his fellow exiles began plotting a return to England. Richard left England to suppress a revolt in Ireland during 1399 and while he was away Henry led a small army back to England and seized his former estate by force. He quickly raised an army among the rest of the disaffected nobility and took control of most of England without force before Richard could return. Upon his return, Richard was forced to abdicate and was then starved to death. Henry was crowned King.\n\nFrench foreign policy shifted in the years following the truce, and the focus was placed on Italy as the French attempted to gain a foothold whereby they could force the Roman pope to abdicate. Genoa became a French protectorate. Charles's mental state continued to deteriorate, leading to more fighting in the court, with his wife allying with his uncles in opposition of Charles's brother, Louis of Orleans, Duke of Touraine. When Henry took the throne in England, the French initially interpreted it as a repudiation of the truce and raised an army and strengthened their garrisons on their borders. An embassy to England reconfirmed the truce with Henry.\n\nHenry made a number of aggressive political moves toward France in the following years, marrying the dowager duchess of Brittany, Joan of Navarre in April 1402, making him duke of the two largest duchies with ties to France. The French responded by making one of Charles' sons Duke of Guyenne, a part of the Duchy of Aquitaine which the French claimed was forfeit. Henry formed alliances with several German states, including a marriage alliance with Bavaria. Scotland was the first nation to break the truce, invading England in August 1402 in coordination with a revolt in Wales. The Welsh revolt was likely influenced by the French. The French reentered the conflict in September 1403, landing an army in Wales. The thirteen-year truce was the longest period of peace between England and France in the Hundred Years' War. The war continued intermittently for another five decades.\n\n"}
{"id": "5107747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5107747", "title": "White certificates", "text": "White certificates\n\nIn environmental policy, white certificates are documents certifying that a certain reduction of energy consumption has been attained. In most applications, the white certificates are tradable and combined with an obligation to achieve a certain target of energy savings. Under such a system, producers, suppliers or distributors of electricity, gas and oil are required to undertake energy efficiency measures for the final user that are consistent with a pre-defined percentage of their annual energy deliverance. If energy producers do not meet the mandated target for energy consumption they are required to pay a penalty. The white certificates are given to the producers whenever an amount of energy is saved whereupon the producer can use the certificate for their own target compliance or can be sold to (other) parties who cannot meet their targets. Quite analogous to the closely related concept of emissions trading, the tradability in theory guarantees that the overall energy saving is achieved at least cost, while the certificates guarantee that the overall energy saving target is achieved.\n\nA white certificate, also referred to as an \"Energy Savings Certificate (ESC), Energy Efficiency Credit (EEC)\", or \"white tag\", is an instrument issued by an authorized body guaranteeing that a specified amount of energy savings has been achieved. Each certificate is a unique and traceable commodity carrying a property right over a certain amount of additional energy savings and guaranteeing that the benefit of these savings has not been accounted for elsewhere.\n\nIn Europe several countries have implemented a white certificate scheme or are\nseriously considering doing so. Italy started a scheme in January 2005; France and Denmark a year later. Great Britain has combined its obligation system for energy savings with the possibility to trade obligations and savings. The Netherlands and Poland are seriously considering the introduction of a white certificate scheme in the near future.\n\nIn the UK, the Energy Efficiency Commitment (2002–2005) program required that all electricity and gas suppliers with 15,000 or more domestic customers must achieve a combined energy saving of 62 TWh by 2005 by assisting their customers to take energy-efficiency measures in their homes: suppliers must achieve at least half of their energy savings in households on income-related benefits and tax credits. In the second (2005–2008) EEC 2, energy saving targets were raised to 130 TWh suppliers, and here suppliers with at least 50,000 domestic customers (including affiliated licenses) are eligible for an obligation. The third phase runs from April 2008 to December 2012 and is intended to deliver 185Mt lifetime savings by 2012.\n\nConnecticut, Pennsylvania, and Nevada have adopted Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standards that require regulated utilities to meet a certain percentage of their projected power needs through energy efficiency. Utilities must meet their obligations by either reducing their consumers’ energy usage, or by purchasing energy efficiency certificates (white certificates). More states are expected to follow in the near future.\n\nThere is also a voluntary market where large corporations are purchasing energy efficiency certificates as a way of meeting their corporate commitments to reduce their carbon footprints. Sterling Planet, a market maker in renewable energy certificates (RECs) is also making a market for voluntary purchases of White Tags. Sterling Planet helped develop Connecticut's Energy Efficiency Standard and is presently the only company actively involved in this space.\n\nThe white certificate concept is an offshoot of the more mature renewable energy credit or \"green tag\" trading. The market for white certificates is expected to grow larger than the green tag market because it requires less government approval and expense to install energy efficiency measures in factories and commercial buildings than to construct most renewable energy projects.\n\nOne issue arising is how to avoid allowing customers to \"double dip\" in white tag and other incentive programs for energy efficiency, such as ISO New England’s forward capacity market and the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33828979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33828979", "title": "Wildlife regulations in Florida", "text": "Wildlife regulations in Florida\n\nBill CS/SB 318 is an amendment passed by the State of Florida in June 2010 which amends several sections of Chapter 379 of the Florida Statutes (F.S.). Sections 379.231, 379.372, 379.374, 379.3761, 379.401, and 379.4015 deal with wildlife regulations and were amended by this bill. Broadly, this bill seeks to regulate entities which own, import, sell and/or breed certain prohibited species of reptiles. Specifically this bill prohibits the ownership of a variety of commonly kept pythons and monitor species. Additionally, the bill provided rules for a commission to add species of reptiles to the prohibited list.\n\nAmendment to section 379.231 and 379.3762 changes the language throughout to bring continuity to the legal text.\n\nAmended section 379.372 specifies a list of prohibited species which may not be possessed, imported into the state, sold, bartered, traded, or bred without the authorization of the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC). Prohibited animals include \"Burmese or Indian python (\"Python molurus\"), reticulated python (\"Python reticulatus\"), Northern African python (\"Python sebae\"), Southern African python (\"Python natalensis\"), amethystine or scrub python (\"Morelia amethistina\"), green anaconda (\"Eunectes murinus\"), Nile monitor (\"Varanus niloticus\"), and any other reptile designated as a conditional or prohibited species by the FWC.\n\nAccording to the Amended section 379.3761, F.S. prohibits the sale of any wild animal which is designated as a prohibited or conditional species, reptile of concern, or venomous reptiles in the State of Florida, regardless of the origin of the sale or location of the initial transaction.\n\nAmended section 379.4015, F.S. is the penalty section of the amended statute. So called \"conditional\" or \"Prohibited\" reptile violations are a level two violation with a mandatory minimum fine of $100, and a requirement that the animal must be surrendered to the FWC unless a permit to possess is applied for and approved.\n\nThese amendments were made to Florida law to address concerns regarding the introduction of reptile species which seem capable of not only adapting to the local environment, but in fact seem to thrive. Florida Fish and Wildlife has found breeding colonies of Burmese pythons, a large Asian constrictor routinely sold through the United States as a pet, in the Everglades National Park.\n\nThe state of Florida does allow for possession of species otherwise prohibited by law for the purposes of research. There is no fee for this permit. A research plan, security plan must be submitted to the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) in order to attain approval. Aquariums, zoological parks and public exhibitors may also acquire a permit.\n\nIndividuals in possession of any conditional species prior to July 1, 2010 are allowed to retain ownership of their animals provided they maintain a valid reptile of concern license for the remainder of its life.\n\nBurmese pythons are an invasive species in parts of Florida. It has been found that the climate of the Everglades enables the species to thrive . This species is also known to be breeding in parts of Florida along with the common Boa Constrictor. Conservationist and wildlife officials are concerned about this natural predator spreading to areas which are biologically vulnerable, the Florida Keys for example.\n\nAs a predator the Burmese python is a threat to the preservation of native wildlife. This pythons territorial expanse and adaptability to a variety of habitats, flexible dietary requirements and lifespan This species of python along is an excellent swimmer and has been shown to prey on the endangered . after a dietary analysis was performed on a specimen. They have been shown to eat a diversity of pretty to include rabbits, rats, squirrel, domestic cats, bobcats, a variety of bird species and the American alligator. The Burmese pythons flexible diet makes it a competitor for the States endangered Indigo snake.\n\nCurrently both Federal and State agencies are attempting to develop methods of containing and eradicating this and other invasive species. Due to the cost of controlling exotic species once introduced, preventing introduction of non-native species is of import. Legal measures such as Bill CS/SB 318 as passed by the State of Florida in June 2010 are initial attempts to mitigate the release of exotic species, such as the Burmese python and other reptiles.\n\nAccording to the US Geological Survey Burmese pythons, already established in parts of Florida are adaptable to temperature conditions in a significant portion of the United States. Current estimates show that almost one-third of the continental US would provide appropriate temperatures, shelter and prey which would facilitate the adaption of this python species.\n\nMaps released by the USGS show that current environmental temperatures which match the Burmese pythons native environment include significant portions of the southeast, Texas and lower southwest. based on global warming models the USGS predicts that the suitable habitat for the Burmese pythons will expand greatly during the remaining portion of the century.\n\nThe classification of the Burmese python as a subspecies of the Indian Python is not scientifically accepted anymore. Recent publications to include the \"Zur taxonomie des dunklen tigerpythons, Python molurus bivittatus Kuhl, 1820, speziell der population von Sulawesi\" in 2009 by Hans Jacobs \"et al.\" has established that the Burmese python is not a subspecies of the Indian Python. This is in addition to the 1999 report \"The Burmese Python is a questionable subspecies of the Indian Python, Python molurus\" which was coauthored by Dr. Rodda. To further this belief herpetologist will point to the fact that the United States Fish and Wildlife Service does not consider the Indian Python to be the same species as the Burmese Python. The Indian pythons is already banned from import or export with the interstate transportation of such animals being limited to those who possess a specific permit.\n\nThe reptile industry is responsible for the employment of thousands of individuals and has an economic net worth of approximately $3 billion each year, measures such as SB318 harm the industry as a whole. Opponents to the legislation passed by the State of Florida are critical of the measures taken for a variety of reasons. The United States Geological Survey which produced the maps and report detailing the possible expansion of Burmese pythons in as many as 32 States was written by Dr. Gordon Rodda. Dr. Rodda was the co-author of a paper in 1999 titled \"The Burmese Python is a questionable subspecies of the Indian Python, Python molurus\". This is significant to opponents who wonder why the paper Dr. Rodda coauthored for the USGS, \"What Parts of the U.S. Mainland Are Climatically Suitable for Invasive Alien Pythons Spreading from Everglades National Park?\", used climatic data for the Indian Python to support his work, which is an endangered species highly regulated by the Federal Government, in place of the Burmese python which the report was written on.\n\nFurther work which is critical of the USGS report on the expansion of the Burmese python was written by Dr, Frank Burbrink with the City University of New York which used more than annual rainfall and temperature to determine habitat suitable for the large constrictors. 19 variables were taken into consideration. Through the use of climatic data from the localities where the Burmese python is naturally found climatic models where generated to help predict where this species could inhabit. As a result, \"the models suggest that the pythons are restricted to the vicinity of the Everglades in extreme south Florida…\".\n\nThe models by Dr. Burbrink predict different results than the models of Dr. Rodda because variables such as climatic extremes and seasonal variation create a significant variation in the animals survivability. Dr. Burbrink's models also predict that global warming will actually reduce the habitat suitable for exotic southeastern Asian species such as the Burmese Python.\n\nHerpetologist Shawn Heflick has a permit from the State of Florida to hunt Burmese Pythons in the Everglades. He is also the president of the Central Florida Herpetological Society. Of note he indicates in an interview that there \"is very little genetic variation with this wild population…\" and goes on to say that a \"genetic study done on this population suggest that the population stems from the Hurricane Andrew devastation in 1992.\" The hurricane is an important event as a reptile breeding facility had an estimated nine hundred animals released due to its destruction by the Hurricane in 1992. The location of this facility is thought to be the \"epicenter\" of the current Burmese Python population. Mr. Heflick also goes on to add that the record cold weather in parts of Florida has led to a \"large number\" of deaths in the local Burmese Python population.\n\nCurrently Federal and State officials are using technology in the hunt for these invasive species. In addition to legislation to restrict the flow of potentially invasive species into Florida there are extensive efforts to eradicate the current population of Burmese pythons in the Everglades. Current Florida legislation requires that all \"species of concern\" or \"prohibited species\" must be implanted with a microchip to aid in their tracking should they escape. Researches with the University of Florida are taking this one step further and implanting a radio transmitter into snakes and releasing them back into the wild. These so-called \"Judas snakes\" lead the researchers to areas inhabited by the Burmese python and allow trackers to catch and euthanize the invasive animals. During the first trial, with the release of three, radio transmitter implanted pythons, twelve untagged snakes were caught.\n\n"}
{"id": "39080839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39080839", "title": "World Day for Laboratory Animals", "text": "World Day for Laboratory Animals\n\nWorld Day For Animals In Laboratories (WDAIL) (also known as World Lab Animal Day) is observed every year on 24 April. The surrounding week has come to be known as \"World Week for Animals In Laboratories\". The National Anti-Vivisection Society (NAVS) describe the day as an \"international day of commemoration\" for animals in laboratories.\n\nWorld Day For Animals In Laboratories was established in 1979 by the British National Anti-Vivisection Society (NAVS). The date 24 April was chosen as it marked the birthday of former NAVS president Hugh Dowding, 1st Baron Dowding.\n\nToday the event is marked by demonstrations and protests by groups opposed to the use of animals in research. In April 2010 protesters marched through central London calling for an end to the use of animals in research. A similar march took place in Birmingham in 2012. and Nottingham in 2014.\n\nWorld Day and World Week For Animals In Laboratories have also attracted attention from scientific groups defending the use of animals in research. On 22 April 2009 members of UCLA Pro-Test held a rally in support of biomedical research on animals, and to condemn the violence and harassment directed at faculty member Prof. David Jentsch by animal activists.\n\nNAVS and other groups opposed to animal research have claimed that World Day For Animals In Laboratories is recognised by the United Nations. However, the day is not included on the official list of United Nations observances.\n\n"}
