{"id": "43109823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43109823", "title": "2014 Minya court rulings", "text": "2014 Minya court rulings\n\nBetween the months of March and April 2014, a court in Minya, Egypt, has recommended the death sentence to hundreds of members and supporters of the banned Muslim Brotherhood over an attack on a police station in December 2013. The defendants included Mohamed Badie, the group's top leader, whose sentence was confirmed on June 21, 2014, along with 181 of the brotherhood's supporters. This came two months after the previous ruling decided to refer the case to the Egypt's Grand Mufti Shawki Ibrahim.\n\nOn March 24, 2014, the Minya Criminal Court sentenced 529 Muslim Brotherhood supporters to death. 147 of the defendants were in court for the trial while the others were convicted \"in absentia\".\n"}
{"id": "7082944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7082944", "title": "African Resistance Movement", "text": "African Resistance Movement\n\nThe African Resistance Movement (ARM) was a militant anti-apartheid resistance movement, which operated in South Africa during the early and mid-1960s. It was founded in 1960, as the National Committee of Liberation (NCL), by members of South Africa’s Liberal Party, which advocated for the dismantling of apartheid and gradually transforming South Africa into a free multiracial society. It was renamed \"African Resistance Movement\" in 1964.\n\nImmediately after the 1960 Sharpeville Massacre, the apartheid government imposed a state of emergency, which allowed it to apply a broad range of sanctions against its political opponents, such as detention without trial and banning meetings, and enabled the Special Branch to secretly detain and interrogate whomever it deemed a threat to the government, without due process. \n\nAfter the state of emergency was lifted, the new Minister of Justice, B.J. Vorster, introduced legislation that made many parts of the emergency regulations permanent (the Sabotage Act of 1962, and the 90-day Detention Act of 1963). Much of the Liberal party’s leadership was banned, detained or forced underground, rendering it impotent.\n\nA number of young Liberals became increasingly frustrated, and, in 1960, formed the National Liberation Committee (NLC). Initially focused on helping hunted people escape the country, the NLC progressed to sabotage government installations and services, explicitly eschewing violence against people. It launched its first operation in September 1963. From then, until July 1964, the NLC/ARM bombed power lines, railroad tracks and rolling stock, roads, bridges and other vulnerable infrastructure, without any civilian casualties. It aimed to turn the white population against the government by creating a situation that would result in capital flight and collapse of confidence in the country and its economy. It launched four attacks in 1961, three in 1962, eight in 1963, and ten in 1964.\n\nIn May 1964, the NLC was renamed the African Resistance Movement. The name change coincided with increased internal debate about the use of violence against people, i.e. guerrilla warfare.\n\nOn 4 July 1964, the security police carried out a series of raids, including one on the flat of Adrian Leftwich in Cape Town. Leftwich, a former president of the South African Union of Students, and one of the organizers of ARM, possessed a collection of documents in his possession which described virtually the entire history of the NLC, and included a notebook containing the names of and dues paid by each member. During interrogation by the security forces, Leftwich informed on his colleagues. In July, the security police arrested 29 ARM members. After brutal interrogation, several pleaded guilty. Leftwich turned state witness in the trial of five members of the Cape Town group, and in the Johannesburg trial of four members of the Johannesburg group. Of the 29 arrested, 14 were charged and 10 were convicted, receiving jail sentences of between 5 and 15 years.\n\nOn 24 July, one of the few ARM members still at large, John Harris, placed a phosphorus incendiary device in the whites-only waiting room of Johannesburg Park Station. He telephoned a bomb warning to the police, who did not respond before it exploded, killing a woman and severely burning 23 others. Harris was arrested, following a confession by one of his colleagues, John Lloyd. Harris was convicted of murder and hanged on 1 April 1965, singing \"We Shall Overcome\" on his way to the gallows.\n\n"}
{"id": "22331159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22331159", "title": "Assumed Incumbency", "text": "Assumed Incumbency\n\nThe strategy of assumed incumbency is based on a recognition of the value of incumbency in a political campaign. A high correlation between election and incumbency has been demonstrated in congressional races. The success rate of incumbent members of the U.S. House of Representatives seeking re-election averaged 93.5 percent during the 1960s and 1970s. Statistically, the initial edge for the incumbent candidate is 2-4 percent of the vote.\n\nAn incumbent is the person currently holding the office; that held position provides an automatic legitimacy, which usually results in an early conclusion of the person being the frontrunner in the campaign. Powell and Shelby (1891) claim that being the frontrunner allows the candidate to be able to define the parameters of debate and put the burden of the proof on the challenger. \n\nThe assumed incumbent strategy occurs when a political position becomes open with no incumbent seeking re-election. The candidate that runs for the now open spot can assume the incumbency role for that position, usually through same-party affiliation. One case study that examined an assumed incumbency looked at Richard Shelby and his congressional campaign in 1978 in Alabama. At the time, Shelby was an Alabama state senator, and had announced his intentions to run for the state lieutenant governor's position However, when Congressman Walter Flowers decided to leave his seat in the U.S. House of Representatives and run for a seat in the U.S. Senate, Shelby decided to abandon his campaign for state lieutenant governor and run for Walter's congressional seat. The congressional seat was now open with no incumbent seeking re-election. Thus, the decision for Shelby to run was made using the assumed incumbency strategy. \n\nThe strategy of assumed incumbency is developed through three progressive stages that complete a model of spiral progression as follows:\n\nThe three stages of the model are as follows:\n\n1. Legitimacy becomes the rhetorical goal of the strategy, and the initial stage of the strategy's development. This starting point depends on the degree of name recognition that a candidate has with its given audience. The goal is to generate expectations about the candidate as the likely winner, which is achieved through the rhetorical stance that identifies the candidate as the 'natural choice' for the position sought. Success comes from identification of the candidate with the incumbent and/or the characteristics of the incumbency.\n\n2. Identification stems from the increased visibility that is given to the candidate during the legitimacy stage, making the candidate a political celebrity. The goal of this stage is increased voter recognition of a candidate's name. Press coverage shifts from trying to establish legitimacy to maintaining one's name in the face of the public.\n\n3. Reinforcement occurs when the candidate's campaign reaffirms the legitimacy of the candidate. If the stages of legitimacy and identification succeed, then a set of expectations will be generated on what the candidate should be like - the 'ideal candidate' image that the voters begin to form and hold \n\nThe assumed incumbency model seeks to generate a specific ideal type in the early stage, then provide verification in the final stage. \n\nAssumptions of the Model\n\n1. The importance of legitimacy as a campaign stage is noted. \n\n2. The strategy assumes that direct confrontation between the candidate and the opposition should not occur, as the confrontation would assign legitimacy to the opponent and reduce the effectiveness of the strategy.\n\n3. The strategy assumes that past voting behavior related to the actual incumbent can serve as the basis for establishing vote expectations for the new candidate.\n\n4. The strategy assumes a progressive acceleration rate, attained by increased media exposure, which is intended to assist in the control of momentum so the candidate is perceived as starting from a strong position and growing stronger as the campaign develops. \n\n5. The strategy dictates what media should be employed and at what times to achieve the effects. \n\nOne contingent condition must exist: the strategy is contingent upon the actual incumbent having strong voting appeal in the district. If the strong vote appeal is not present, the advantage of assuming incumbency would be diminished. This strategy worked for Shelby, as there was a strong vote appeal present for the actual incumbent; in this case, Walters. Pre-campaign polls showed that Flowers was the most popular politician with a favorability rating of 67% \n"}
{"id": "13026876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13026876", "title": "Bishop's storehouse", "text": "Bishop's storehouse\n\nA bishop's storehouse in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) usually refers to a commodity resource center that is used by bishops (lay leaders of local congregations analogous to pastors or parish priests in other Christian denominations) of the church to provide goods to needy individuals. The storehouses stock basic foods and essential household items. The term can also be used figuratively to refer to all of the time, talents, skills, materials, compassion, and financial means of the members of the church that are available to be applied in the service of the needy.\n\nThe concept of the bishop's storehouse is based on a revelation received by Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, on February 9, 1831, whereby he was instructed to keep goods \"in my [the Lord's] storehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy\". The first bishop's storehouse was established in Bishop Newel K. Whitney's store in Kirtland, Ohio.\n\nMost of the goods in the storehouse are purchased with fast offering funds or produced on church-owned agricultural property. The storehouses are staffed by volunteers or church service missionaries. Persons in need, whether members of the church or not, can access the storehouse by approaching a bishop or local Relief Society president. The bishop decides whether or not the person will be given assistance and works with the Relief Society president in determining what the person will be given. The usual practice is to ask the recipient to work or render some form of service in exchange for the good given them.\n\nBishop's storehouses are not commercial entities and goods are generally not for sale to the public through them.\n\nThere are buildings owned throughout the world that serve as bishop's storehouses. In areas of the world without a dedicated building, the bishop can render assistance by purchasing food and household necessities with church fast offering funds and delivering the goods to the recipient. This may also be done when the recipient has special dietary needs not catered to through the storehouse. The bishop can also draw on the \"storehouse\" of church members' available time, talents, and abilities to assist the needy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57743155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57743155", "title": "Bugoloobi Wastewater Treatment Plant", "text": "Bugoloobi Wastewater Treatment Plant\n\nBugoloobi Wastewater Treatment Plant (BWTP), also Bugoloobi Sewerage Treatment Plant (BSTP), is a wastewater treatment project in Uganda. When completed as expected in 2018, the treatment plant will be the largest wastewater treatment plant in the countries of the East African Community, and capable of processing of wastewater daily.\n\nThe water treatment facility is under construction in the neighborhood of Bugoloobi, in Nakawa Division, in the south-eastern section of Kampala, the capital and largest city of Uganda. This is approximately , by road, east of the central business district of he city. The geographical coordinates of the plant are 0°19'06.0\"N, 32°36'27.0\"E (Latitude:0.318333; Longitude:32.607500).\n\nThe Bugoloobi WTP, collects wastewater and sewerage from parts of the city, including Old Kampala, Mengo, Katwe, Nsambya, Kibuli, Mbuya, Nakawa, Naguru, Bukoto and Kamwookya. The new expanded STP is aimed at increasing and improving sanitation services in the city and reducing the pollution of the \"Nakivubo Channel\", a surface-water effluent into Lake Victoria, thereby increasing the lake's environmental sustainability.\n\nThe project involves the construction of an ultra-modern sewerage treatment plant in Bugoloobi, a sewerage pre-treatment plant in Kinawattaka, a sewerage pumping station on Kibira Road and a sewer network measuring . New areas to be added to the sewerage network include Bugoloobi, Kyambogo, Kasokoso, Kinnawattaka, Banda, Butabika and neighbouring areas.\n\nThe bio-digesters in this plant, are expected to generate gases, which will be heated to generate of electricity, to be used internally in the plant. In addition, the solid wastes removed from the wastewater, are expected to be dried and sold as fertilizer, or as raw material for the manufacture of cooking briquettes.\n\nThe water treatment facility is wholly owned by the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), a government parastatal company, responsible for provision of potable water and sewerage services nationwide.\n\nConstruction began in May 2014, and is expected to conclude in 2018. NWSC plans to construct new sewerage treatment plants in Nalukolongo, between Ndeeba and Nateete, along the Kampala–Masaka Road and in Kajjansi, in addition the one in Lubigi, completed in 2014.\n\nThis project has received funding from (a) the government of Uganda, (b) the African Development Bank (c) the European Union and (d) KfW.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4132527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4132527", "title": "Coalition for Religious Freedom", "text": "Coalition for Religious Freedom\n\nThe Coalition for Religious Freedom is a religious right organization founded by Tim LaHaye and Robert Grant to lobby against government regulation of religion. In the 1980s the organization concentrated its efforts on defending the Unification Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32869406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32869406", "title": "Conservative Party of Quebec (historical) leadership elections", "text": "Conservative Party of Quebec (historical) leadership elections\n\nThis page lists the results of leadership elections held by the Conservative Party of Quebec. Before 1929 leaders were chosen by the caucus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25770792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25770792", "title": "Corporate chambers (Estonia)", "text": "Corporate chambers (Estonia)\n\nCorporate chambers (, singular \"\", lit. vocational chamber) were a series of corporate institutions in Estonia during the interwar period. The first of these – the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – was created in 1924, and the second, the Chamber of Agriculture, followed in 1931. However, most of the chambers were established after the 1934 coup d'état of Konstantin Päts, and the Era of Silence which followed the coup became their heyday. \n\nThe main proponent of the formation of the chambers was indeed Päts – according to his political views, a nation should be organized not by political views into parties, but by vocation into respective chambers. Päts had promoted the idea of corporate chambers already in 1918, shortly after the Republic of Estonia had been established, but the idea did not gain support at the time. Both of the earlier chambers were however formed during time when Päts was head of government (riigivanem). After the 1934 coup Päts established a moderate authoritarian regime, in which corporate chambers were deemed to play an important role. A corporative system, based on the example of Fascist Italy, was to replace the inherently unstable multi-party system. Fifteen more chambers were established between 1934 and 1936, bringing the total number to 17. The chambers also took part in legislative work – according to the 1937 constitution, 16 out of 40 seats in the upper chamber of the parliament (\"Riiginõukogu\") were allocated to them. \n\nAll the corporate chambers were disbanded between 13 and 31 July 1940, about a month after Soviet Union occupied Estonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "41129558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41129558", "title": "Cuba under Fidel Castro", "text": "Cuba under Fidel Castro\n\nUnder the rule of Fidel Castro, the nation of Cuba underwent significant economic, political, and social changes. In the Cuban Revolution, Castro and an associated group of revolutionaries toppled the ruling government of Fulgencio Batista, forcing Batista out of power on 1 January 1959. Castro, who had already been an important figure in Cuban society, went on to serve as Prime Minister from 1959 to 1976. He was also the First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba, the most senior position in the Communist state from 1961 to 2011. In 1976, Castro officially became President of the Council of State and President of the Council of Ministers. He retained the title until 2008, when the presidency was transferred to his brother, Raúl Castro, but retained his position of Party First Secretary until 2011.\n\nFidel Castro's staunch belief in a communist ideology and his criticisms of other international figures elevated the prominence of his rule. He launched a wide range of economic and social changes, and also promoted a cult of personality around himself. Castro's Cuba became a key element within the Cold War struggle between the United States and its allies versus the Soviet Union and its allies. Events such as the Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961, in which American-connected forces failed to topple Castro's administration, continue to attract attention from historians as well as laypeople worldwide.\n\nCastro died of natural causes in late 2016 in Havana. He had dealt with severe health problems for the past decade, remarking publicly about struggles with mobility and other issues. Even after his death, Castro's ideas continue to be the foundation of Cuban government.\n\nOn February 16, 1959, Castro was sworn in as Prime Minister of Cuba, and accepted the position on the condition that the Prime Minister's powers be increased. Between 15 and 26 April Castro visited the U.S. with a delegation of representatives, hired a public relations firm for a charm offensive, and presented himself as a \"man of the people\". U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower avoided meeting Castro; he was instead met by Vice President Richard Nixon, a man Castro instantly disliked. Proceeding to Canada, Trinidad, Brazil, Uruguay and Argentina, Castro attended an economic conference in Buenos Aires. He unsuccessfully proposed a $30 billion U.S.-funded \"Marshall Plan\" for the whole region of Latin America.\n\nAfter appointing himself president of the National Institute of Agrarian Reform (\"Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agraria\" - INRA), on 17 May 1959, Castro signed into law the First Agrarian Reform, limiting landholdings to per owner. He additionally forbade further foreign land-ownership. Large land-holdings were broken up and redistributed; an estimated 200,000 peasants received title deeds. To Castro, this was an important step that broke the control of the well-off landowning class over Cuba's agriculture. Though popular among the working class, it alienated many middle-class supporters. Castro appointed himself president of the National Tourist Industry as well. He introduced unsuccessful measures to encourage African-American tourists to visit, advertising it as a tropical paradise free of racial discrimination. Changes to state wages were implemented; judges and politicians had their pay reduced while low-level civil servants saw theirs raised. In March 1959, Castro ordered rents for those who paid less than $100 a month halved, with measures implemented to increase the Cuban people's purchasing powers. Productivity decreased, and the country's financial reserves were drained within only two years.\n\nAlthough he refused to initially categorize his regime as 'socialist' and repeatedly denied specifically being a 'communist', Castro appointed advocates of Marxism-Leninism to senior government and military positions. Most notably, Che Guevara became Governor of the Central Bank and then Minister of Industries. Appalled, Air Force commander Pedro Luis Díaz Lanz defected to the U.S. Although President Urrutia denounced the defection, he publicly expressed concern with the rising influence of Marxism. Angered, Castro announced his resignation as prime minister, blaming Urrutia for complicating government with his \"fevered anti-Communism\". Over 500,000 Castro-supporters surrounded the Presidential Palace demanding Urrutia's resignation, which was duly received. On July 23, Castro resumed his Premiership and appointed the Marxist Osvaldo Dorticós as the new President.\n\nCastro used radio and television to develop a \"dialogue with the people\", posing questions and making provocative statements. His regime remained popular with workers, peasants and students, who constituted the majority of the country's population, while opposition came primarily from the middle class. Thousands of doctors, engineers and other professionals emigrated to Florida in the U.S., causing an economic brain drain. Castro's government cracked down on opponents of his government, and arrested hundreds of counter-revolutionaries. Castro's government was characterized by the use of psychological torture, subjecting prisoners to solitary confinement, rough treatment, and threatening behavior. Militant anti-Castro groups, funded by exiles, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and Trujillo's Dominican government, undertook armed attacks and set up guerrilla bases in Cuba's mountainous regions. This led to a six-year Escambray Rebellion that lasted longer and involved more soldiers than the revolution. The government won with superior numbers and executed those who surrendered. After conservative editors and journalists expressed hostility towards the government, the pro-Castro printers' trade union disrupted editorial staff. In January 1960, the government proclaimed that each newspaper would be obliged to publish a \"clarification\" written by the printers' union at the end of any articles critical of the government; thus began press censorship in Castro's Cuba.\n\nBy 1960, the Cold War raged between two superpowers: the United States, a capitalist liberal democracy, and the Soviet Union (USSR), a Marxist-Leninist socialist state ruled by the Communist Party. Expressing contempt for the U.S., Castro shared the ideological views of the USSR, establishing relations with several Marxist-Leninist states. Meeting with Soviet First Deputy Premier Anastas Mikoyan, Castro agreed to provide the USSR with sugar, fruit, fibers, and hides, in return for crude oil, fertilizers, industrial goods, and a $100 million loan. Cuba's government ordered the country's refineries – then controlled by the U.S. corporations Shell, Esso and Standard Oil – to process Soviet oil, but under pressure from the U.S. government, they refused. Castro responded by expropriating and nationalizing the refineries. In retaliation, the U.S. cancelled its import of Cuban sugar, provoking Castro to nationalize most U.S.-owned assets on the island, including banks and sugar mills.\n\nRelations between Cuba and the U.S. were further strained following the explosion of a French vessel, the \"Le Coubre\", in Havana harbor in March 1960. The ship carried weapons purchased from Belgium, the cause of the explosion was never determined, but Castro publicly insinuated that the U.S. government were guilty of sabotage. He ended this speech with \"¡Patria o Muerte!\" (\"Fatherland or Death\"), a proclamation that he made much use of in ensuing years. Inspired by their earlier success with the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état, on 17 March 1960, U.S. President Eisenhower secretly authorized the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to overthrow Castro's government. He provided them with a budget of $13 million and permitted them to ally with the Mafia, who were aggrieved that Castro's government closed down their businesses in Cuba. On 13 October 1960, the U.S. prohibited the majority of exports to Cuba, initiating an economic embargo. In retaliation, INRA took control of 383 private-run businesses on 14 October, and on 25 October a further 166 U.S. companies operating in Cuba had their premises seized and nationalized. On 16 December, the U.S. ended its import quota of Cuban sugar, the country's primary export.\n\nIn September 1960, Castro flew to New York City for the General Assembly of the United Nations. Offended by the attitude of the elite Shelburne Hotel, he and his entourage stayed at the cheap, run-down Hotel Theresa in the impoverished area of Harlem. There he met with journalists and anti-establishment figures like Malcolm X. He also met the Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev and the two leaders publicly highlighted the poverty faced by U.S. citizens in areas like Harlem; Castro described New York as a \"city of persecution\" against black and poor Americans. Relations between Castro and Khrushchev were warm; they led the applause to one another's speeches at the General Assembly. Although Castro publicly denied being a socialist, Khrushchev informed his entourage that the Cuban would become \"a beacon of Socialism in Latin America.\" Subsequently, visited by four other socialists, Polish First Secretary Władysław Gomułka, Bulgarian chairman Todor Zhivkov, Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser and Indian Premier Jawaharlal Nehru, the Fair Play for Cuba Committee organized an evening's reception for Castro, attended by Allen Ginsberg, Langston Hughes, C. Wright Mills and I. F. Stone.\n\nCastro returned to Cuba on 28 September. He feared a U.S.-backed coup and in 1959 spent $120 million on Soviet, French and Belgian weaponry. Intent on constructing the largest army in Latin America, by early 1960 the government had doubled the size of the Cuban armed forces. Fearing counter-revolutionary elements in the army, the government created a People's Militia to arm citizens favorable to the revolution, and trained at least 50,000 supporters in combat techniques. In September 1960, they created the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution (CDR), a nationwide civilian organization which implemented neighborhood spying to weed out \"counter-revolutionary\" activities and could support the army in the case of invasion. They also organized health and education campaigns, and were a conduit for public complaints. Eventually, 80% of Cuba's population would be involved in the CDR. Castro proclaimed the new administration a direct democracy, in which the Cuban populace could assemble \"en masse\" at demonstrations and express their democratic will. As a result, he rejected the need for elections, claiming that representative democratic systems served the interests of socio-economic elites. In contrast, critics condemned the new regime as un-democratic. The U.S. Secretary of State Christian Herter announced that Cuba was adopting the Soviet model of communist rule, with a one-party state, government control of trade unions, suppression of civil liberties and the absence of freedom of speech and press.\n\nCastro's government emphasised social projects to improve Cuba's standard of living, often to the detriment of economic development. Major emphasis was placed on education, and under the first 30 months of Castro's government, more classrooms were opened than in the previous 30 years. The Cuban primary education system offered a work-study program, with half of the time spent in the classroom, and the other half in a productive activity. Health care was nationalized and expanded, with rural health centers and urban polyclinics opening up across the island, offering free medical aid. Universal vaccination against childhood diseases was implemented, and infant mortality rates were reduced dramatically. A third aspect of the social programs was the construction of infrastructure; within the first six months of Castro's government, 600 miles of road had been built across the island, while $300 million was spent on water and sanitation schemes. Over 800 houses were constructed every month in the early years of the administration in a measure to cut homelessness, while nurseries and day-care centers were opened for children and other centers opened for the disabled and elderly.\n\nIn January 1961, Castro ordered Havana's U.S. Embassy to reduce its 300 staff, suspecting many to be spies. The U.S. responded by ending diplomatic relations, and increasing CIA funding for exiled dissidents; these militants began attacking ships trading with Cuba, and bombed factories, shops, and sugar mills. Both Eisenhower and his successor John F. Kennedy supported a CIA plan to aid a dissident militia, the Democratic Revolutionary Front, to invade Cuba and overthrow Castro; the plan resulted in the Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961. On 15 April, CIA-supplied B-26's bombed three Cuban military airfields; the U.S. announced that the perpetrators were defecting Cuban air force pilots, but Castro exposed these claims as false flag misinformation. Fearing invasion, he ordered the arrest of between 20,000 and 100,000 suspected counter-revolutionaries, publicly proclaiming that \"What the imperialists cannot forgive us, is that we have made a Socialist revolution under their noses\". This was his first announcement that the government was socialist.\n\nThe CIA and Democratic Revolutionary Front had based a 1,400-strong army, Brigade 2506, in Nicaragua. At night, Brigade 2506 landed along Cuba's Bay of Pigs, and engaged in a firefight with a local revolutionary militia. Castro ordered Captain José Ramón Fernández to launch the counter-offensive, before taking personal control himself. After bombing the invader's ships and bringing in reinforcements, Castro forced the Brigade's surrender on 20 April. He ordered the 1189 captured rebels to be interrogated by a panel of journalists on live television, personally taking over questioning on 25 April. 14 were put on trial for crimes allegedly committed before the revolution, while the others were returned to the U.S. in exchange for medicine and food valued at U.S. $25 million. Castro's victory was a powerful symbol across Latin America, but it also increased internal opposition primarily among the middle-class Cubans who had been detained in the run-up to the invasion. Although most were freed within a few days, many left Cuba for the United States and established themselves in Florida.\nConsolidating \"Socialist Cuba\", Castro united the MR-26-7, Popular Socialist Party and Revolutionary Directorate into a governing party based on the Leninist principle of democratic centralism: the Integrated Revolutionary Organizations (\"Organizaciones Revolucionarias Integradas\" - ORI), renamed the United Party of the Cuban Socialist Revolution (PURSC) in 1962. Although the USSR was hesitant regarding Castro's embrace of socialism, relations with the Soviets deepened. Castro sent Fidelito for a Moscow schooling and while the first Soviet technicians arrived in June Castro was awarded the Lenin Peace Prize. In December 1961, Castro proclaimed himself a Marxist-Leninist, and in his Second Declaration of Havana he called on Latin America to rise up in revolution. In response, the U.S. successfully pushed the Organization of American States to expel Cuba; the Soviets privately reprimanded Castro for recklessness, although he received praise from China. Despite their ideological affinity with China, in the Sino-Soviet Split, Cuba allied with the wealthier Soviets, who offered economic and military aid.\n\nThe ORI began shaping Cuba using the Soviet model, persecuting political opponents and perceived social deviants such as prostitutes and homosexuals; Castro considered the latter a bourgeois trait. Government officials spoke out against his homophobia, but many gays were forced into the Military Units to Aid Production (\"Unidades Militares de Ayuda a la Producción\" - UMAP), something Castro took responsibility for and regretted as a \"great injustice\" in 2010. By 1962, Cuba's economy was in steep decline, a result of poor economic management and low productivity coupled with the U.S. trade embargo. Food shortages led to rationing, resulting in protests in Cárdenas. Security reports indicated that many Cubans associated austerity with the \"Old Communists\" of the PSP, while Castro considered a number of them – namely Aníbal Escalante and Blas Roca – unduly loyal to Moscow. In March 1962 Castro removed the most prominent \"Old Communists\" from office, labelling them \"sectarian\". On a personal level, Castro was increasingly lonely, and his relations with Che Guevara became strained as the latter became increasingly anti-Soviet and pro-Chinese.\n\nMilitarily weaker than NATO, Khrushchev wanted to install Soviet R-12 MRBM nuclear missiles on Cuba to even the power balance. Although conflicted, Castro agreed, believing it would guarantee Cuba's safety and enhance the cause of socialism. Undertaken in secrecy, only the Castro brothers, Guevara, Dorticós and security chief Ramiro Valdés knew the full plan. Upon discovering it through aerial reconnaissance, in October the U.S. implemented an island-wide quarantine to search vessels headed to Cuba, sparking the Cuban Missile Crisis. The U.S. saw the missiles as offensive, though Castro insisted they were defensive. Castro urged Khrushchev to threaten a nuclear strike on the U.S. should Cuba be attacked, but Khrushchev was desperate to avoid nuclear war. Castro was left out of the negotiations, in which Khrushchev agreed to remove the missiles in exchange for a U.S. commitment not to invade Cuba and an understanding that the U.S. would remove their MRBMs from Turkey and Italy. Feeling betrayed by Khrushchev, Castro was furious and soon fell ill. Proposing a five-point plan, Castro demanded that the U.S. end its embargo, cease supporting dissidents, stop violating Cuban air space and territorial waters and withdraw from Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. Presenting these demands to U Thant, visiting Secretary-General of the United Nations, the U.S. ignored them, and in turn Castro refused to allow the U.N.'s inspection team into Cuba.\n\nIn February 1963, Castro received a personal letter from Khrushchev, inviting him to visit the USSR. Deeply touched, Castro arrived in April and stayed for five weeks. He visited 14 cities, addressed a Red Square rally and watched the May Day parade from the Kremlin, was awarded an honorary doctorate from Moscow State University and became the first foreigner to receive the Order of Lenin. \nCastro returned to Cuba with new ideas; inspired by Soviet newspaper \"Pravda\", he amalgamated \"Hoy\" and \"Revolución\" into a new daily, \"Granma\", and oversaw large investment into Cuban sport that resulted in an increased international sporting reputation. The government agreed to temporarily permit emigration for anyone other than males aged between 15 and 26, thereby ridding the government of thousands of opponents. In 1963 his mother died. This was the last time his private life was reported in Cuba's press. In 1964, Castro returned to Moscow, officially to sign a new five-year sugar trade agreement, but also to discuss the ramifications of the assassination of John F. Kennedy. In October 1965, the Integrated Revolutionary Organizations was officially renamed the \"Cuban Communist Party\" and published the membership of its Central Committee.\n\nDespite Soviet misgivings, Castro continued calling for global revolution and the funding militant leftists. He supported Che Guevara's \"Andean project\", an unsuccessful plan to set up a guerrilla movement in the highlands of Bolivia, Peru and Argentina, and allowed revolutionary groups from across the world, from the Viet Cong to the Black Panthers, to train in Cuba. He considered western-dominated Africa ripe for revolution, and sent troops and medics to aid Ahmed Ben Bella's socialist regime in Algeria during the Sand war. He also allied with Alphonse Massemba-Débat's socialist government in Congo-Brazzaville, and in 1965 Castro authorized Guevara to travel to Congo-Kinshasa to train revolutionaries against the western-backed government. Castro was personally devastated when Guevara was subsequently killed by CIA-backed troops in Bolivia in October 1967 and publicly attributed it to Che's disregard for his own safety. In 1966 Castro staged a Tri-Continental Conference of Africa, Asia and Latin America in Havana, further establishing himself as a significant player on the world stage. From this conference, Castro created the Latin American Solidarity Organization (OLAS), which adopted the slogan of \"The duty of a revolution is to make revolution\", signifying that Havana's leadership of the Latin American revolutionary movement.\n\nCastro's increasing role on the world stage strained his relationship with the Soviets, now under the leadership of Leonid Brezhnev. Asserting Cuba's independence, Castro refused to sign the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, declaring it a Soviet-U.S. attempt to dominate the Third World. In turn, Soviet-loyalist Aníbal Escalante began organizing a government network of opposition to Castro, though in January 1968, he and his supporters were arrested for passing state secrets to Moscow. Castro ultimately relented to Brezhnev's pressure to be obedient, and in August 1968 denounced the Prague Spring as led by a \"fascist reactionary rabble\" and praised the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. Influenced by China's Great Leap Forward, in 1968 Castro proclaimed a Great Revolutionary Offensive, closed all remaining privately owned shops and businesses and denounced their owners as capitalist counter-revolutionaries.\n\nIn January 1969, Castro publicly celebrated his administration's tenth anniversary in Revolution Square, using the occasion to ask the assembled crowds if they would tolerate reduced sugar rations, reflecting the country's economic problems. The majority of the sugar crop was being sent to the USSR, but 1969's crop was heavily damaged by a hurricane; the government postponed the 1969/70 New Year holidays in order to lengthen the harvest. The military were drafted in, while Castro, and several other Cabinet ministers and foreign diplomats joined in. The country nevertheless failed that year's sugar production quota. Castro publicly offered to resign, but assembled crowds denounced the idea. Despite Cuba's economic problems, many of Castro's social reforms remained popular, with the population largely supportive of the \"Achievements of the Revolution\" in education, medical care and road construction, as well as the government's policy of \"direct democracy\". Cuba turned to the Soviets for economic help, and from 1970 to 1972, Soviet economists re-planned and organized the Cuban economy, founding the Cuban-Soviet Commission of Economic, Scientific and Technical Collaboration, while Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin visited in 1971. In July 1972, Cuba joined the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (Comecon), an economic organization of socialist states, although this further limited Cuba's economy to agricultural production.\n\nIn May 1970, Florida-based dissident group Alpha 66 sank two Cuban fishing boats and captured their crews, demanding the release of Alpha 66 members imprisoned in Cuba. Under U.S. pressure, the hostages were released, and Castro welcomed them back as heroes. In April 1971, Castro gained international condemnation for ordering the arrest of dissident poet Herberto Padilla. When Padilla fell ill, Castro visited him in hospital. The poet was released after publicly confessing his guilt. Soon after, the government formed the National Cultural Council to ensure that intellectuals and artists supported the administration. In November 1971 he made a state visit to Chile, where Marxist President Salvador Allende had been elected as the head of a left-wing coalition. Castro supported Allende's socialist reforms, where he toured the country to give speeches and press conferences. Suspicious of right-wing elements in the Chilean military, Castro advised Allende to purge these before they led a coup. Castro was proven right; in 1973, Chile's military led a coup d'état, banned elections, executed thousands and established a military junta led by Commander-in-Chief Augusto Pinochet. Castro proceeded to West Africa to meet socialist Guinean President Sékou Touré, where he informed a crowd of Guineans that theirs was Africa's greatest leader. He then went on a seven-week tour visiting other leftist allies in Africa and Eurasia: Algeria, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union. On every trip he was eager to meet with ordinary people by visiting factories and farms, chatting and joking with them. Although publicly highly supportive of these governments, in private he urged them to do more to aid revolutionary movements in other parts of the world, in particular in the Vietnam War.\n\nIn September 1973, he returned to Algiers to attend the Fourth Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). Various NAM members were critical of Castro's attendance, claiming that Cuba was aligned to the Warsaw Pact and therefore should not be at the conference, particularly as he praised the Soviet Union in a speech that asserted that it was not imperialistic. As the Yom Kippur War broke out in October 1973 between Israel and an Arab coalition led by Egypt and Syria, Castro's government sent 4000 troops to prevent Israeli forces from entering Syrian territory. In 1974, Cuba broke off relations with Israel over the treatment of Palestinians during the Israel-Palestine conflict and their increasingly close relationship with the United States. This earned him respect from leaders throughout the Arab world, in particular from the Libyan socialist president Muammar Gaddafi, who became his friend and ally.\n\nThat year, Cuba experienced an economic boost, due primarily to the high international price of sugar, but also influenced by new trade credits with Canada, Argentina, and parts of Western Europe. A number of Latin American states called for Cuba's re-admittance into the Organization of American States (OAS), with the U.S. finally conceding in 1975 on Henry Kissinger's advice. Cuba's government called the first National Congress of the Cuban Communist Party, thereby officially announcing Cuba's status as a socialist state. It adopted a new constitution based on the Soviet model, abolished the position of President and Prime Minister. Castro took the presidency of the newly created Council of State and Council of Ministers, making him both head of state and head of government.\n\nFidel Castro served as President of Cuba from 1976 to 2008. During this time he participated in many foreign wars including the Angolian Civil War, Mozambique Civil War, Ogaden War; as well as Latin American revolutions. Castro also faced other difficulties as the President of Cuba, for instance the economic crisis that occurred during the Reagan era. As well as the deteriorating relationship between the Soviet Union and Cuba due to Glastnost and Perestroika (1980-1989). Beginning in the 1990s Castro led Cuba in an era of economic crisis known as the Special Period. During this decade Castro made many changes to the Cuban economy. Castro reformed Cuban Socialism due to the withdrawal of the Soviet's backing. Subsequently, Cuba received aid from Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, in a period known as The Pink Tide era (2000-2006). On July 31, 2006 Castro passed his duties as the President of Cuba to his brother Raúl due to health reasons. Castro renounced his positions as President of the Council of State and Commander and Chief at the February 24 National Assembly meetings in a letter dated February 18, 2008.\n\nCastro considered Africa to be \"the weakest link in the imperialist chain\", in November 1975 he ordered 230 military advisors into Southern Africa to aid the Marxist MPLA in the Angolan Civil War. When the U.S. and South Africa stepped up their support of the opposition FLNA and UNITA, Castro ordered a further 18,000 troops to Angola, which played a major role in forcing a South African retreat. Traveling to Angola, Castro celebrated with President Agostinho Neto, Guinea's Ahmed Sékou Touré and Guinea-Bissaun President Luís Cabral, where they agreed to support the Mozambique's communist government against RENAMO in the Mozambique Civil War. In February, Castro visited Algeria and Libya and spent ten days with Muammar Gaddafi before attending talks with the Marxist government of South Yemen. From there he proceeded to Somalia, Tanzania, Mozambique and Angola where he was greeted by crowds as a hero for Cuba's role in opposing Apartheid-era South Africa.\n\nIn 1977 the Ogaden War broke out as Somalia invaded Ethiopia; although a former ally of Somali President Siad Barre, Castro had warned him against such action, and Cuba sided with Mengistu Haile Mariam's Marxist government of Ethiopia. He sent troops under the command of General Arnaldo Ochoa to aid the overwhelmed Ethiopian army. After forcing back the Somalis, Mengistu then ordered the Ethiopians to suppress the Eritrean People's Liberation Front, a measure Castro refused to support. Castro extended support to Latin American revolutionary movements, namely the Sandinista National Liberation Front in its overthrow of the Nicaraguan rightist government of Anastasio Somoza Debayle in July 1979. Castro's critics accused the government of wasting Cuban lives in these military endeavors; the anti-Castro Carthage Foundation-funded Center for a Free Cuba has claimed that an estimated 14,000 Cubans were killed in foreign Cuban military actions.\nIn 1979, the Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) was held in Havana, where Castro was selected as NAM president, a position he held till 1982. In his capacity as both President of the NAM and of Cuba he appeared at the United Nations General Assembly in October 1979 and gave a speech on the disparity between the world's rich and poor. His speech was greeted with much applause from other world leaders, though his standing in NAM was damaged by Cuba's abstinence from the U.N.'s General Assembly condemnation of the Soviet–Afghan War. Cuba's relations across North America improved under Mexican President Luis Echeverría, Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, and U.S. President Jimmy Carter. Carter continued criticizing Cuba's human rights abuses, but adopted a respectful approach which gained Castro's attention. Considering Carter well-meaning and sincere, Castro freed certain political prisoners and allowed some Cuban exiles to visit relatives on the island, hoping that in turn Carter would abolish the economic embargo and stop CIA support for militant dissidents.\n\nBy the 1980s, Cuba's economy was again in trouble, following a decline in the market price of sugar and 1979's decimated harvest. Desperate for money, Cuba's government secretly sold off paintings from national collections and illicitly traded for U.S. electronic goods through Panama. Increasing numbers of Cubans fled to Florida, who were labelled \"scum\" by Castro. In one incident, 10,000 Cubans stormed the Peruvian Embassy requesting asylum, and so the U.S. agreed that it would accept 3,500 refugees. Castro conceded that those who wanted to leave could do so from Mariel port. Hundreds of boats arrived from the U.S., leading to a mass exodus of 120,000; Castro's government took advantage of the situation by loading criminals and the mentally ill onto the boats destined for Florida. In 1980, Ronald Reagan became U.S. President and then pursued a hard line anti-Castro approach, and by 1981, Castro was accusing the U.S. of biological warfare against Cuba.\n\nAlthough despising Argentina's right wing military junta, Castro supported them in the 1982 Falklands War against the United Kingdom and offered military aid to the Argentinians. Castro supported the leftist New Jewel Movement that seized power in Grenada in 1979, sent doctors, teachers, and technicians to aid the country's development, and befriended the Grenadine President Maurice Bishop. When Bishop was murdered in a Soviet-backed coup by hardline Marxist Bernard Coard in October 1983, Castro cautiously continued supporting Grenada's government. However, the U.S. used the coup as a basis for invading the island. Cuban soldiers died in the conflict, with Castro denouncing the invasion and comparing the U.S. to Nazi Germany. Castro feared a U.S. invasion of Nicaragua and sent Arnaldo Ochoa to train the governing Sandinistas in guerrilla warfare, but received little support from the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev became Secretary-General of the Soviet Communist Party. A reformer, he implemented measures to increase freedom of the press (\"glasnost\") and economic decentralisation (\"perestroika\") in an attempt to strengthen socialism. Like many orthodox Marxist critics, Castro feared that the reforms would weaken the socialist state and allow capitalist elements to regain control. Gorbachev conceded to U.S. demands to reduce support for Cuba, with Cuba–Soviet Union relations deteriorating. When Gorbachev visited Cuba in April 1989, he informed Castro that \"perestroika\" meant an end to subsidies for Cuba. Ignoring calls for liberalisation in accordance with the Soviet example, Castro continued to clamp down on internal dissidents and in particular kept tabs on the military, the primary threat to the government. A number of senior military officers, including Ochoa and Tony de la Guardia, were investigated for corruption and complicity in cocaine smuggling, tried, and executed in 1989, despite calls for leniency. On medical advice given him in October 1985, Castro gave up regularly smoking Cuban cigars, helping to set an example for the rest of the populace. Castro became passionate in his denunciation of the Third World debt problem, arguing that the Third World would never escape the debt that First World banks and governments imposed upon it. In 1985, Havana hosted five international conferences on the world debt problem.\nBy November 1987, Castro began spending more time on the Angolan Civil War, in which the Marxists had fallen into retreat. Angolan President José Eduardo dos Santos successfully appealed for more Cuban troops, with Castro later admitting that he devoted more time to Angola than to the domestic situation, believing that a victory would lead to the collapse of apartheid. Gorbachev called for a negotiated end to the conflict and in 1988 organized a quadripartite talks between the USSR, U.S., Cuba and South Africa; they agreed that all foreign troops would pull out of Angola. Castro was angered by Gorbachev's approach, believing that he was abandoning the plight of the world's poor in favour of détente. In Eastern Europe, socialist governments fell to capitalist reformers between 1989 and 1991 and many western observers expected the same in Cuba. Increasingly isolated, Cuba improved relations with Manuel Noriega's right-wing government in Panama – despite Castro's personal hatred of Noriega – but it was overthrown in a U.S. invasion in December 1989. In February 1990, Castro's allies in Nicaragua, President Daniel Ortega and the Sandinistas, were defeated by the U.S.-funded National Opposition Union in an election. With the collapse of the Eastern Bloc, the U.S. secured a majority vote for a resolution condemning Cuba's human rights violations at the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva, Switzerland. Cuba asserted that this was a manifestation of U.S. hegemony, and refused to allow an investigative delegation to enter the country.\n\nWith favourable trade from the Eastern bloc ended, Castro publicly declared that Cuba was entering a \"Special Period in Time of Peace.\" Petrol rations were dramatically reduced, Chinese bicycles were imported to replace cars, and factories performing non-essential tasks were shut down. Oxen began to replace tractors, firewood began being used for cooking and electricity cuts were introduced that lasted 16 hours a day. Castro admitted that Cuba faced the worst situation short of open war, and that the country might have to resort to subsistence farming. By 1992, the Cuban economy had declined by over 40% in under two years, with major food shortages, widespread malnutrition and a lack of basic goods. Castro hoped for a restoration of Marxism–Leninism in the USSR, but refrained from backing the 1991 coup in that country. When Gorbachev regained control, Cuba-Soviet relations deteriorated further and Soviet troops were withdrawn in September 1991. In December, the Soviet Union was officially dismantled as Boris Yeltsin abolished the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and introducing a capitalist multiparty democracy. Yeltsin despised Castro and developed links with the Miami-based Cuban American National Foundation. Castro tried improving relations with the capitalist nations. He welcomed western politicians and investors to Cuba, befriended Manuel Fraga and took a particular interest in Margaret Thatcher's policies in the U.K., believing that Cuban socialism could learn from her emphasis on low taxation and personal initiative. He ceased support for foreign militants, refrained from praising FARC on a 1994 visit to Colombia and called for a negotiated settlement between the Zapatistas and the Mexican government in 1995. Publicly, he presented himself as a moderate on the world stage.\n\nIn 1991, Havana hosted the Pan-American Games, which involved construction of a stadium and accommodation for the athletes; Castro admitted that it was an expensive error, but it was a success for Cuba's government. Crowds regularly shouted \"Fidel! Fidel!\" in front of foreign journalists, while Cuba became the first Latin American nation to beat the U.S. to the top of the gold-medal table. Support for Castro remained strong, and although there were small anti-government demonstrations, the Cuban opposition rejected the exile community's calls for an armed uprising. In August 1994, the most serious anti-Castro demonstration in Cuban history occurred in Havana, as 200 to 300 young men began throwing stones at police, demanding that they be allowed to emigrate to Miami. A larger pro-Castro crowd confronted them, and joined by Castro who informed the media that the men were anti-socials misled by U.S. media. The protests dispersed with no recorded injuries. Fearing that dissident groups would invade, the government organised the \"War of All the People\" defence strategy, planning a widespread guerrilla warfare campaign, and the unemployed were given jobs building a network of bunkers and tunnels across the country.\n\nCastro recognised the need for reform if Cuban socialism was to survive in a world now dominated by capitalist free markets. In October 1991, the Fourth Congress of the Cuban Communist Party was held in Santiago, at which a number of important changes to the government were announced. Castro would step down as head of government, to be replaced by the much younger Carlos Lage, although Castro would remain the head of the Communist Party and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Many older members of government were to be retired and replaced by their younger counterparts. A number of economic changes were proposed, and subsequently put to a national referendum. Free farmers' markets and small-scale private enterprises would be legalised in an attempt to stimulate economic growth, while U.S. dollars were also made legal tender. Certain restrictions on emigration were eased, allowing more discontented Cuban citizens to move to the United States. Further democratisation was to be brought in by having the National Assembly's members elected directly by the people, rather than through municipal and provincial assemblies. Castro welcomed debate between proponents and opponents of the reforms, although over time he began to increasingly sympathise with the opponent's positions, arguing that such reforms must be delayed.\n\nCastro's government decided to diversify its economy into biotechnology and tourism, the latter outstripping Cuba's sugar industry as its primary source of revenue in 1995. The arrival of thousands of Mexican and Spanish tourists led to increasing numbers of Cubans turning to prostitution; officially illegal, Castro refrained from cracking down on prostitution in Cuba, fearing a political backlash. Economic hardship led many Cubans to turn towards religion, both in the forms of Roman Catholicism and the syncretic faith of Santeria. Although he had long considered religious belief to be backward, Castro softened his approach to the Church and religious institutions He recognised the psychological comfort it could bring, and religious people were permitted for the first time to join the Communist Party. Although he viewed the Roman Catholic Church as a reactionary, pro-capitalist institution, Castro decided to organise a visit to Cuba by Pope John Paul II, which took place in January 1998; ultimately, it strengthened the position of both the Church in Cuba, and Castro's government.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Castro embraced environmentalism, campaigning against the waste of natural resources and global warming and accused the U.S. of being the world's primary polluter. His government's environmentalist policies would prove highly effective; by 2006, Cuba was the only nation in the world which met the WWF's definition of sustainable development, with an ecological footprint of less than 1.8 hectares per capita and a Human Development Index of over 0.8 for 2007. Similarly, Castro also became a proponent of the anti-globalisation movement. He criticized U.S. global hegemony and the control exerted by multinationals. Castro also maintained his devout anti-apatheid beliefs, and at the July 26 celebrations in 1991, Castro was joined onstage by the South African political activist Nelson Mandela, recently released from prison. Mandela would praise Cuba's involvement in battling South Africa in Angola and thanked Castro personally. He would later attend Mandela's inauguration as President of South Africa in 1994. In 2001 he attended the Conference Against Racism in South Africa at which he lectured on the global spread of racial stereotypes through U.S. film.\n\nMired in economic problems, Cuba would be aided by the election of socialist and anti-imperialist Hugo Chávez to the Venezuelan Presidency in 1999. In 2000, Castro and Chávez signed an agreement through which Cuba would send 20,000 medics to Venezuela, in return receiving 53,000 barrels of oil per day at preferential rates; in 2004, this trade was stepped up, with Cuba sending 40,000 medics and Venezuela providing 90,000 barrels a day. That same year, Castro initiated \"Mision Milagro\", a joint medical project which aimed to provide free eye operations on 300,000 individuals from each nation. The alliance boosted the Cuban economy, and in May 2005 Castro doubled the minimum wage for 1.6 million workers, raised pensions, and delivered new kitchen appliances to Cuba's poorest residents. Some economic problems remained; in 2004, Castro shut down 118 factories, including steel plants, sugar mills and paper processors to compensate for the crisis of fuel shortages.\n\nEvo Morales of Bolivia has described him as \"the grandfather of all Latin American revolutionaries\". In contrast to the improved relations between Cuba and a number of leftist Latin American states, in 2004 it broke off diplomatic ties with Panama after centrist President Mireya Moscoso pardoned four Cuban exiles accused of attempting to assassinate Cuban President Fidel Castro in 2000. Diplomatic ties were reinstalled in 2005 following the election of leftist President Martín Torrijos.\n\nCastro's improving relations across Latin America were accompanied by continuing animosity towards the U.S. However, after massive damage caused by Hurricane Michelle in 2001, Castro successfully proposed a one-time cash purchase of food from the U.S. while declining its government's offer of humanitarian aid. Castro expressed solidarity with the U.S. following the 2001 September 11 attacks, condemning Al Qaeda and offering Cuban airports for the emergency diversion of any U.S. planes. He recognized that the attacks would make U.S. foreign policy more aggressive, which he believed was counter-productive.\n\nAt a summit meeting of sixteen Caribbean countries in 1998, Castro called for regional unity, saying that only strengthened cooperation between Caribbean countries would prevent their domination by rich nations in a global economy. Caribbean nations have embraced Cuba's Fidel Castro while accusing the US of breaking trade promises. Castro, until recently a regional outcast, has been increasing grants and scholarships to the Caribbean countries, while US aid to those has dropped 25% over the past five years. Cuba has opened four additional embassies in the Caribbean Community including: Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Suriname, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. This development makes Cuba the only country to have embassies in all independent countries of the Caribbean Community.\n\nCastro was known to be a friend of former Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and was an honorary pall bearer at Trudeau's funeral in October 2000. They had continued their friendship after Trudeau left office until his death. Canada became one of the first American allies openly to trade with Cuba. Cuba still has a good relationship with Canada. In 1998, Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien arrived in Cuba to meet President Castro and highlight their close ties. He is the first Canadian government leader to visit the island since Pierre Trudeau was in Havana in 1976.\n\nOn July 31, 2006, Castro delegated all his duties to his brother Raúl; the transfer was described as a temporary measure while Fidel recovered from surgery for an \"acute intestinal crisis with sustained bleeding\". In February 2007, Raúl announced that Fidel's health was improving and that he was taking part in important issues of government. Later that month, Fidel called into Hugo Chávez's radio show \"Aló Presidente\", and in April, Chávez told press that Castro was \"almost totally recovered\". On April 21, Castro met Wu Guanzheng of the Chinese Communist Party's Politburo, with Chávez visiting in August, and Morales in September. As a comment on Castro's recovery, U.S. President George W. Bush said: \"One day the good Lord will take Fidel Castro away\". Hearing about this, the atheist Castro ironically replied: \"Now I understand why I survived Bush’s plans and the plans of other presidents who ordered my assassination: the good Lord protected me.\" The quote would subsequently be picked up on by the world’s media.\n\nIn a letter dated February 18, 2008, Castro announced that he would not accept the positions of President of the Council of State and Commander in Chief at the February 24 National Assembly meetings, stating that his health was a primary reason for his decision, remarking that \"It would betray my conscience to take up a responsibility that requires mobility and total devotion, that I am not in a physical condition to offer\". On February 24, 2008, the National Assembly of People's Power unanimously voted Raúl as president. Describing his brother as \"not substitutable\", Raúl proposed that Fidel continue to be consulted on matters of great importance, a motion unanimously approved by the 597 National Assembly members.\n\n"}
{"id": "43260654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43260654", "title": "Cum primum (encyclical)", "text": "Cum primum (encyclical)\n\nCum primum, subtitled \"On Civil Disobedience\", is an encyclical issued by Pope Gregory XVI on June 9, 1832.\n\nThe encyclical is addressed to the episcopate of the Kingdom of Poland and is primarily a condemnation of the November Uprising.\n\n"}
{"id": "28165911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28165911", "title": "Diplomacy", "text": "Diplomacy\n\nDiplomacy is the art and practice of conducting negotiations between representatives of states. It usually refers to international diplomacy, the conduct of international relations through the intercession of professional diplomats with regard to a full range of topical issues. International treaties are usually negotiated by diplomats prior to endorsement by national politicians. David Stevenson reports that by 1900 the term \"diplomats\" also covered diplomatic services, consular services and foreign ministry officials.\n\nSome of the earliest known diplomatic records are the Amarna letters written between the pharaohs of the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt and the Amurru rulers of Canaan during the 14th century BC. Following the [Battle of Kadesh] in \"c\". 1274 BC during the Nineteenth dynasty, the pharaoh of Egypt and the ruler of the Hittite Empire created one of the first known international peace treaties which survives in , now generally called the Egyptian–Hittite peace treaty.\n\nRelations with the government of the Ottoman Empire (known to Italian states as the Sublime Porte) were particularly important to Italian states. The maritime republics of Genoa and Venice depended less and less upon their nautical capabilities, and more and more upon the perpetuation of good relations with the Ottomans. Interactions between various merchants, diplomats and clergy men hailing from the Italian and Ottoman empires helped inaugurate and create new forms of diplomacy and statecraft. Eventually the primary purpose of a diplomat, which was originally a negotiator, evolved into a persona that represented an autonomous state in all aspects of political affairs. It became evident that all other sovereigns felt the need to accommodate themselves diplomatically, due to the emergence of the powerful political environment of the Ottoman Empire. One could come to the conclusion that the atmosphere of diplomacy within the early modern period revolved around a foundation of conformity to Ottoman culture.\n\nOne of the earliest realists in international relations theory was the 6th century BC military strategist Sun Tzu (d. 496 BC), author of \"The Art of War\". He lived during a time in which rival states were starting to pay less attention to traditional respects of tutelage to the Zhou Dynasty (c. 1050–256 BC) figurehead monarchs while each vied for power and total conquest. However, a great deal of diplomacy in establishing allies, bartering land, and signing peace treaties was necessary for each warring state, and the idealized role of the \"persuader/diplomat\" developed.\n\nFrom the Battle of Baideng (200 BC) to the Battle of Mayi (133 BC), the Han Dynasty was forced to uphold a marriage alliance and pay an exorbitant amount of tribute (in silk, cloth, grain, and other foodstuffs) to the powerful northern nomadic Xiongnu that had been consolidated by Modu Shanyu. After the Xiongnu sent word to Emperor Wen of Han (r. 180–157) that they controlled areas stretching from Manchuria to the Tarim Basin oasis city-states, a treaty was drafted in 162 BC proclaiming that everything north of the Great Wall belong to nomads' lands, while everything south of it would be reserved for Han Chinese. The treaty was renewed no less than nine times, but did not restrain some Xiongnu \"tuqi\" from raiding Han borders. That was until the far-flung campaigns of Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BC) which shattered the unity of the Xiongnu and allowed Han to conquer the Western Regions; under Wu, in 104 BC the Han armies ventured as far Fergana in Central Asia to battle the Yuezhi who had conquered Hellenistic Greek areas.\n\nThe Koreans and Japanese during the Chinese Tang Dynasty (618–907 AD) looked to the Chinese capital of Chang'an as the hub of civilization and emulated its central bureaucracy as the model of governance. The Japanese sent frequent embassies to China in this period, although they halted these trips in 894 when the Tang seemed on the brink of collapse. After the devastating An Shi Rebellion from 755 to 763, the Tang Dynasty was in no position to reconquer Central Asia and the Tarim Basin. After several conflicts with the Tibetan Empire spanning several different decades, the Tang finally made a truce and signed a peace treaty with them in 841.\n\nIn the 11th century during the Song Dynasty (960–1279), there were cunning ambassadors such as Shen Kuo and Su Song who achieved diplomatic success with the Liao Dynasty, the often hostile Khitan neighbor to the north. Both diplomats secured the rightful borders of the Song Dynasty through knowledge of cartography and dredging up old court archives. There was also a triad of warfare and diplomacy between these two states and the Tangut Western Xia Dynasty to the northwest of Song China (centered in modern-day Shaanxi). After warring with the Lý Dynasty of Vietnam from 1075 to 1077, Song and Lý made a peace agreement in 1082 to exchange the respective lands they had captured from each other during the war.\n\nLong before the Tang and Song dynasties, the Chinese had sent envoys into Central Asia, India, and Persia, starting with Zhang Qian in the 2nd century BC. Another notable event in Chinese diplomacy was the Chinese embassy mission of Zhou Daguan to the Khmer Empire of Cambodia in the 13th century. Chinese diplomacy was a necessity in the distinctive period of Chinese exploration. Since the Tang Dynasty (618–907 AD), the Chinese also became heavily invested in sending diplomatic envoys abroad on maritime missions into the Indian Ocean, to India, Persia, Arabia, East Africa, and Egypt. Chinese maritime activity was increased dramatically during the commercialized period of the Song Dynasty, with new nautical technologies, many more private ship owners, and an increasing amount of economic investors in overseas ventures.\n\nDuring the Mongol Empire (1206–1294) the Mongols created something similar to today's diplomatic passport called paiza. The paiza were in three different types (golden, silver, and copper) depending on the envoy's level of importance. With the paiza, there came authority that the envoy can ask for food, transport, place to stay from any city, village, or clan within the empire with no difficulties.\n\nFrom the 17th century the Qing Dynasty concluded a series of treaties with Czarist Russia, beginning with the Treaty of Nerchinsk in the year 1689. This was followed up by the Aigun Treaty and the Convention of Peking in the mid-19th century.\n\nAs European power spread around the world in the 18th and 19th centuries so too did its diplomatic model, and Asian countries adopted European diplomatic systems.\n\nAncient India, with its kingdoms and dynasties, had a long tradition of diplomacy. The oldest treatise on statecraft and diplomacy, \"Arthashastra\", is attributed to Kautilya (also known as Chanakya), who was the principal adviser to Chandragupta Maurya, the founder of the Maurya dynasty who ruled in the 3rd century BC. It incorporates a theory of diplomacy, of how in a situation of mutually contesting kingdoms, the wise king builds alliances and tries to checkmate his adversaries. The envoys sent at the time to the courts of other kingdoms tended to reside for extended periods of time, and \"Arthashastra\" contains advice on the deportment of the envoy, including the trenchant suggestion that 'he should sleep alone'. The highest morality for the king is that his kingdom should prosper.\n\nThe ancient Greek city-states on some occasions sent envoys to each other in order to negotiate specific issues, such as war and peace or commercial relations, but did not have diplomatic representatives regularly posted in each other's territory. However, some of the functions given to modern diplomatic representatives were in Classical Greece filled by a proxenos, who was a citizen of the host city having a particular relations of friendship with another city – a relationship often hereditary in a particular family. In times of peace diplomacy was even conducted with rivals such as the Achaemenid Empire of Persia, though the latter eventually succumbed to the invasions of the Macedonian king Alexander the Great. The latter was also adept at diplomacy, realizing that in order to conquer certain territories it was important for his Macedonian and subject Greek troops to mingle and intermarry with native populations. For instance, Alexander even took a Sogdian woman of Bactria as his wife, Roxana, after the siege of the Sogdian Rock, in order to quell the region (which had been troubled by local rebels such as Spitamenes). Diplomacy was a necessary tool of statecraft for the great Hellenistic kingdoms such as the Ptolemaic Kingdom and Seleucid Empire, who fought several wars in the Near East and often negotiated a peace treaty through alliances through marriage.\n\nThe key challenge to the Byzantine Empire was to maintain a set of relations between itself and its sundry neighbors, including the Georgians, Iberians, the Germanic peoples, the Bulgars, the Slavs, the Armenians, the Huns, the Avars, the Franks, the Lombards, and the Arabs, that embodied and so maintained its imperial status. All these neighbors lacked a key resource that Byzantium had taken over from Rome, namely a formalized legal structure. When they set about forging formal political institutions, they were dependent on the empire. Whereas classical writers are fond of making a sharp distinction between peace and war, for the Byzantines diplomacy was a form of war by other means. With a regular army of 120,000-140,000 men after the losses of the seventh century, the empire's security depended on activist diplomacy.\n\nByzantium's \"Bureau of Barbarians\" was the first foreign intelligence agency, gathering information on the empire’s rivals from every imaginable source. While on the surface a protocol office—its main duty was to ensure foreign envoys were properly cared for and received sufficient state funds for their maintenance, and it kept all the official translators—it clearly had a security function as well. \"On Strategy\", from the 6th century, offers advice about foreign embassies: \"[Envoys] who are sent to us should be received honourably and generously, for everyone holds envoys in high esteem. Their attendants, however, should be kept under surveillance to keep them from obtaining any information by asking questions of our people.\"\n\nIn Europe, early modern diplomacy's origins are often traced to the states of Northern Italy in the early Renaissance, with the first embassies being established in the 13th century. Milan played a leading role, especially under Francesco Sforza who established permanent embassies to the other city states of Northern Italy. Tuscany and Venice were also flourishing centres of diplomacy from the 14th century onwards. It was in the Italian Peninsula that many of the traditions of modern diplomacy began, such as the presentation of an ambassador's credentials to the head of state.\n\nFrom Italy the practice was spread across Europe. Milan was the first to send a representative to the court of France in 1455. However, Milan refused to host French representatives fearing espionage and that the French representatives would intervene in its internal affairs. As foreign powers such as France and Spain became increasingly involved in Italian politics the need to accept emissaries was recognized. Soon the major European powers were exchanging representatives. Spain was the first to send a permanent representative; it appointed an ambassador to the Court of St. James's (i.e. England) in 1487. By the late 16th century, permanent missions became customary. The Holy Roman Emperor, however, did not regularly send permanent legates, as they could not represent the interests of all the German princes (who were in theory all subordinate to the Emperor, but in practice each independent).\n\nIn 1500-1700 rules of modern diplomacy were further developed. French replaced Latin from about 1715. The top rank of representatives was an ambassador. At that time an ambassador was a nobleman, the rank of the noble assigned varying with the prestige of the country he was delegated to. Strict standards developed for ambassadors, requiring they have large residences, host lavish parties, and play an important role in the court life of their host nation. In Rome, the most prized posting for a Catholic ambassador, the French and Spanish representatives would have a retinue of up to a hundred. Even in smaller posts, ambassadors were very expensive. Smaller states would send and receive envoys, who were a rung below ambassador. Somewhere between the two was the position of minister plenipotentiary.\n\nDiplomacy was a complex affair, even more so than now. The ambassadors from each state were ranked by complex levels of precedence that were much disputed. States were normally ranked by the title of the sovereign; for Catholic nations the emissary from the Vatican was paramount, then those from the kingdoms, then those from duchies and principalities. Representatives from republics were ranked the lowest (which often angered the leaders of the numerous German, Scandinavian and Italian republics). Determining precedence between two kingdoms depended on a number of factors that often fluctuated, leading to near-constant squabbling.\n\nAmbassadors were often nobles with little foreign experience and no expectation of a career in diplomacy. They were supported by their embassy staff. These professionals would be sent on longer assignments and would be far more knowledgeable than the higher-ranking officials about the host country. Embassy staff would include a wide range of employees, including some dedicated to espionage. The need for skilled individuals to staff embassies was met by the graduates of universities, and this led to a great increase in the study of international law, French, and history at universities throughout Europe.\nAt the same time, permanent foreign ministries began to be established in almost all European states to coordinate embassies and their staffs. These ministries were still far from their modern form, and many of them had extraneous internal responsibilities. Britain had two departments with frequently overlapping powers until 1782. They were also far smaller than they are currently. France, which boasted the largest foreign affairs department, had only some 70 full-time employees in the 1780s.\n\nThe elements of modern diplomacy slowly spread to Eastern Europe and Russia, arriving by the early 18th century. The entire edifice would be greatly disrupted by the French Revolution and the subsequent years of warfare. The revolution would see commoners take over the diplomacy of the French state, and of those conquered by revolutionary armies. Ranks of precedence were abolished. Napoleon also refused to acknowledge diplomatic immunity, imprisoning several British diplomats accused of scheming against France.\n\nAfter the fall of Napoleon, the Congress of Vienna of 1815 established an international system of diplomatic rank. Disputes on precedence among nations (and therefore the appropriate diplomatic ranks used) were first addressed at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1818, but persisted for over a century until after World War II, when the rank of ambassador became the norm. In between that time, figures such as the German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck were renowned for international diplomacy.\n\nDiplomats themselves and historians often refer to the foreign ministry by its address: the Ballhausplatz (Vienna), the Quai d’Orsay (Paris), the Wilhelmstraße (Berlin); and Foggy Bottom (Washington). For imperial Russia to 1917 it was the Choristers’ Bridge (St Petersburg). The \"Consulta\" referred to the Italian ministry of Foreign Affairs, based in the Palazzo della Consulta from 1874 to 1922.\n\nThe sanctity of diplomats has long been observed. This sanctity has come to be known as diplomatic immunity. While there have been a number of cases where diplomats have been killed, this is normally viewed as a great breach of honour. Genghis Khan and the Mongols were well known for strongly insisting on the rights of diplomats, and they would often wreak horrific vengeance against any state that violated these rights.\n\nDiplomatic rights were established in the mid-17th century in Europe and have spread throughout the world. These rights were formalized by the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which protects diplomats from being persecuted or prosecuted while on a diplomatic mission. If a diplomat does commit a serious crime while in a host country he may be declared as persona non grata (unwanted person). Such diplomats are then often tried for the crime in their homeland.\n\nDiplomatic communications are also viewed as sacrosanct, and diplomats have long been allowed to carry documents across borders without being searched. The mechanism for this is the so-called \"diplomatic bag\" (or, in some countries, the \"diplomatic pouch\"). While radio and digital communication have become more standard for embassies, diplomatic pouches are still quite common and some countries, including the United States, declare entire shipping containers as diplomatic pouches to bring sensitive material (often building supplies) into a country.\n\nIn times of hostility, diplomats are often withdrawn for reasons of personal safety, as well as in some cases when the host country is friendly but there is a perceived threat from internal dissidents. Ambassadors and other diplomats are sometimes recalled temporarily by their home countries as a way to express displeasure with the host country. In both cases, lower-level employees still remain to actually do the business of diplomacy.\n\nDiplomacy is closely linked to espionage or gathering of intelligence. Embassies are bases for both diplomats and spies, and some diplomats are essentially openly acknowledged spies. For instance, the job of military attachés includes learning as much as possible about the military of the nation to which they are assigned. They do not try to hide this role and, as such, are only invited to events allowed by their hosts, such as military parades or air shows. There are also deep-cover spies operating in many embassies. These individuals are given fake positions at the embassy, but their main task is to illegally gather intelligence, usually by coordinating spy rings of locals or other spies. For the most part, spies operating out of embassies gather little intelligence themselves and their identities tend to be known by the opposition. If discovered, these diplomats can be expelled from an embassy, but for the most part counter-intelligence agencies prefer to keep these agents \"in situ\" and under close monitoring.\n\nThe information gathered by spies plays an increasingly important role in diplomacy. Arms-control treaties would be impossible without the power of reconnaissance satellites and agents to monitor compliance. Information gleaned from espionage is useful in almost all forms of diplomacy, everything from trade agreements to border disputes.\n\nVarious processes and procedures have evolved over time for handling diplomatic issues and disputes.\n\nNations sometimes resort to international arbitration when faced with a specific question or point of contention in need of resolution. For most of history, there were no official or formal procedures for such proceedings. They were generally accepted to abide by general principles and protocols related to international law and justice.\n\nSometimes these took the form of formal arbitrations and mediations. In such cases a commission of diplomats might be convened to hear all sides of an issue, and to come some sort of ruling based on international law.\n\nIn the modern era, much of this work is often carried out by the International Court of Justice at The Hague, or other formal commissions, agencies and tribunals, working under the United Nations. Below are some examples.\n\nOther times, resolutions were sought through the convening of international conferences. In such cases, there are fewer ground rules, and fewer formal applications of international law. However, participants are expected to guide themselves through principles of international fairness, logic, and protocol.\n\nSome examples of these formal conferences are:\n\nSometimes nations convene official negotiation processes to settle a specific dispute or specific issue between several nations which are parties to a dispute. These are similar to the conferences mentioned above, as there are technically no established rules or procedures. However, there are general principles and precedents which help define a course for such proceedings.\n\nSome examples are\n\nDiplomatic recognition is an important factor in determining whether a nation is an independent state. Receiving recognition is often difficult, even for countries which are fully sovereign. For many decades after its becoming independent, even many of the closest allies of the Dutch Republic refused to grant it full recognition. Today there are a number of independent entities without widespread diplomatic recognition, most notably the Republic of China (ROC)/Taiwan on Taiwan Island. Since the 1970s, most nations have stopped officially recognizing the ROC's existence on Taiwan, at the insistence of the People's Republic of China (PRC). Currently, the United States and other nations maintain informal relations through \"de facto\" embassies, with names such as the American Institute in Taiwan. Similarly, Taiwan's de facto embassies abroad are known by names such as the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office. This was not always the case, with the US maintaining official diplomatic ties with the ROC, recognizing it as the sole and legitimate government of \"all of China\" until 1979, when these relations were broken off as a condition for establishing official relations with PR China.\n\nThe Palestinian National Authority has its own diplomatic service, however Palestinian representatives in most Western countries are not accorded diplomatic immunity, and their missions are referred to as Delegations General.\n\nOther unrecognized regions which claim independence include Abkhazia, Liberland, Transnistria, Somaliland, South Ossetia, Nagorno Karabakh, and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Lacking the economic and political importance of Taiwan, these territories tend to be much more diplomatically isolated.\n\nThough used as a factor in judging sovereignty, Article 3 of the Montevideo Convention states, \"The political existence of the state is independent of recognition by other states.\"\n\nInformal diplomacy (sometimes called Track II diplomacy) has been used for centuries to communicate between powers. Most diplomats work to recruit figures in other nations who might be able to give informal access to a country's leadership. In some situations, such as between the United States and the People's Republic of China a large amount of diplomacy is done through semi-formal channels using interlocutors such as academic members of thinktanks. This occurs in situations where governments wish to express intentions or to suggest methods of resolving a diplomatic situation, but do not wish to express a formal position.\n\nTrack II diplomacy is a specific kind of informal diplomacy, in which non-officials (academic scholars, retired civil and military officials, public figures, social activists) engage in dialogue, with the aim of conflict resolution, or confidence-building. Sometimes governments may fund such Track II exchanges. Sometimes the exchanges may have no connection at all with governments, or may even act in defiance of governments; such exchanges are called Track III.\n\nOn some occasion a former holder of an official position continues to carry out an informal diplomatic activity after retirement. In some cases, governments welcome such activity, for example as a means of establishing an initial contact with a hostile state of group without being formally committed. In other cases, however, such informal diplomats seek to promote a political agenda different from that of the government currently in power. Such informal diplomacy is practiced by former US Presidents Jimmy Carter and (to a lesser extent) Bill Clinton and by the former Israeli diplomat and minister Yossi Beilin (see Geneva Initiative).\n\nSmall state diplomacy is receiving increasing attention in diplomatic studies and international relations. Small states are particularly affected by developments which are determined beyond their borders such as climate change, water security and shifts in the global economy. Diplomacy is the main vehicle by which small states are able to ensure that their goals are addressed in the global arena. These factors mean that small states have strong incentives to support international cooperation. But with limited resources at their disposal, conducting effective diplomacy poses unique challenges for small states.\n\nThere are a variety of diplomatic categories and diplomatic strategies employed by organizations and governments to achieve their aims, each with its own advantages and disadvantages.\n\nPreventive diplomacy through quiet means (as opposed to “gun-boat diplomacy” backed by threat of force or “public diplomacy” which makes use of publicity). It is also understood that circumstances may exist in which the consensual use of force (notably preventive deployment) might be welcomed by parties to a conflict with a view to achieving the stabilization necessary for diplomacy and related political processes to proceed. This is to be distinguished from the use of “persuasion”, “suasion”, “influence”, and other non-coercive approaches explored below.\n\n“Preventive diplomacy”, in the view of one expert, is “the range of peaceful dispute resolution approaches mentioned in Article 33 of the UN Charter [on the pacific settlement of disputes] when applied before a dispute crosses the threshold to armed conflict.” It may take many forms, with different means employed. One form of diplomacy which may be brought to bear to prevent violent conflict (or to prevent its recurrence) is “quiet diplomacy”. When one speaks of the practice of quiet diplomacy, definitional clarity is largely absent. In part this is due to a lack of any comprehensive assessment of exactly what types of engagement qualify, and how such engagements are pursued. On the one hand, a survey of the literature reveals no precise understanding or terminology on the subject. On the other hand, concepts are neither clear nor discrete in practice. Multiple definitions are often invoked simultaneously by theorists, and the activities themselves often mix and overlap in practice.\n\n\"Public diplomacy\" is exercising influence through communication with the general public in another nation, rather than attempting to influence the nation's government directly. This communication may take the form of propaganda, or more benign forms such as citizen diplomacy, individual interactions between average citizens of two or more nations. Technological advances and the advent of digital diplomacy now allow instant communication with foreign public, and methods such as Facebook diplomacy and Twitter diplomacy are increasingly used by world leaders and diplomats.\n\n\"Soft power\", sometimes called \"hearts and minds\" diplomacy, as defined by Joseph Nye, is the cultivation of relationships, respect, or even admiration from others in order to gain influence, as opposed to more coercive approaches. Often and incorrectly confused with the practice of official diplomacy, soft power refers to non-state, culturally attractive factors that may predispose people to sympathize with a foreign culture based on affinity for its products, such as the American entertainment industry, schools and music.\n\nA country's soft power can come from three resources: its culture (in places where it is attractive to others), its political values (when it lives up to them at home and abroad), and its foreign policies (when they are seen as legitimate and having moral authority).\n\n\"Economic diplomacy\" is the use of foreign aid or other types of economic policy as a means to achieve a diplomatic agenda.\n\n\"Counterinsurgency diplomacy\" or Expeditionary Diplomacy, developed by diplomats deployed to civil-military stabilization efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, employs diplomats at tactical and operational levels, outside traditional embassy environments and often alongside military or peacekeeping forces. Counterinsurgency diplomacy may provide political environment advice to local commanders, interact with local leaders, and facilitate the governance efforts, functions and reach of a host government.\n\n\"Gunboat diplomacy\" is the use of conspicuous displays of military strength as a means of intimidation in order to influence others.\n\nIt must also be stated that since gunboat diplomacy lies near the edge between peace and war, victory or defeat in an incident may foster a shift into political and psychological dimensions: a standoff between a weaker and a stronger state may be perceived as a defeat for the stronger one. This was the case in the Pueblo Incident in which the Americans lost face with regard to North Korea.\n\n\"Migration diplomacy\" refers to the use of human migration in a state's foreign policy. American political scientist Myron Weiner argued that international migration is intricately linked to states' international relations. More recently, Kelly Greenhill has identified how states may employ 'weapons of mass migration' against target states in their foreign relations. Migration diplomacy may involve the use of refugees, labor migrants, or diasporas in states' pursuit of international diplomacy goals.\n\n\"Appeasement\" is a policy of making concessions to an aggressor in order to avoid confrontation; because of its failure to prevent World War 2, appeasement is not considered a legitimate tool of modern diplomacy.\n\n\"Nuclear diplomacy\" is the area of diplomacy related to preventing nuclear proliferation and nuclear war. One of the most well-known (and most controversial) philosophies of nuclear diplomacy is mutually assured destruction (MAD).\n\nMost countries provide professional training for their diplomats and some run establishments specifically for that purpose. Private institutions also exist as do establishments associated with organisations like the European Union and the United Nations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7587201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7587201", "title": "Edusave", "text": "Edusave\n\nThe Edusave (Chinese: 教育储蓄) programme is part of a scheme implemented for education in Singapore by the Ministry of Education (MOE) for Singapore. Its stated aim is to maximise opportunities for all Singaporean children. The scheme aims to reward students who perform well or who make good progress in their academic and non-academic work, and provides students and schools who qualify with funds to pay for enrichment programmes or to purchase additional resources. It is applicable to Singaporeans between the age of 6 and 16 and studying full-time at government, government-aided or independent schools, junior colleges (JC) and Centralised Institutes (CI), Institute of Technical Education (ITE) or special education schools.\n\nThe Edusave Endowment Fund is built from various contributions from the government of Singapore. The fund is invested into by the government and the interest earned is used to finance the contributions, grants and awards given to schools and students.\n\nThere are 3 main aspects of Edusave: the Edusave Pupils Fund, Edusave Grants and Edusave Scholarships and Awards.\n\nSingaporeans between the age of 6 and 16 at the point of school admission will automatically be given an Edusave account and receive a yearly contribution from the Government’s Edusave Pupils Fund until they reach 16. However, only the first, second and third child were eligible for the Edusave account prior to 2004. In 2005, the Government will contribute $170 and $200 to the Edusave account of each eligible student at primary and secondary level respectively.\n\nFrom 2014, eligibility to receive Edusave contributions has been extended to all Singaporean children aged 7 to 16, including those not studying in MOE-funded schools, such as those enrolled in the madrasahs, privately funded schools, as well as children who are home-schooled or residing overseas.\n\nIn addition, the Edusave contributions and top-ups have been revised to $200 for primary-level students and $240 for secondary-level students.\n\nFor Singaporeans who are currently not enrolled in any MOE-funded school, the annual Edusave contribution rate will be pegged to that of a typical student in a MOE-funded school. Those aged 7 to 12 will receive the quantum applicable to primary level students, and those aged 13 to 16 will receive the quantum applicable to secondary level students. For those who are required to sit for the Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) as part of the conditions for exemption from the Compulsory Education Act, they will receive contributions at the primary-level rate until they fulfil their PSLE requirements. Students above the age of 16 who are still in secondary school will also receive the top-up.\n\nGovernment-supported special education schools and the Institute of Technical Education receive annual Edusave grants to be used to organise common enrichment programmes or purchase additional resources which benefit students.\n\nThere are various reward programmes for students who meet certain academic rankings as well, some of which is targeted at low-income households.\n\nThe Edusave Scholarships (ES) include:\nThe Edusave Awards include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3521503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3521503", "title": "Flow (policy debate)", "text": "Flow (policy debate)\n\nIn policy debate, the flow (flowing in verb form) is the name given to a specialized form of notetaking or shorthand, which debaters use to keep track of all of the arguments in the round. \n\nIt incorporates specialized and individualized abbreviations, notations, and symbols that allow debaters to keep up with the rapid speed of delivery in most speeches while making a record of as much as possible. Some examples of these abbreviations used on a flow are \"DA\" for a disadvantage and \"K\" for a kritik (critique).\n\nFlowing can be done on paper or on a laptop using a generic spreadsheet program such as Microsoft Excel. Debaters have utilized more specialized software or integrative programs that work in tandem with Microsoft Office. These programs have been usually designed by debaters and former debaters for flowing.\n\nIn collegiate debate, computers may be used in any round, however some high school tournaments and organizations do not allow their use. Those tournaments that follow the National Forensic League regulations may or may not allow laptops depending on the district. Debaters often prefer to use legal paper to be able to capture the numerous arguments read on each position. Numerous sheets of paper (or tabs in a spreadsheet) are used each round as debaters normally use one sheet for each different type of argument read. Debaters often save flows from previous rounds to keep records of both affirmative cases and strategies used by opponents.\n\nAfter the 1NC and 2AC, the second negative speaker and the first affirmative speaker will \"backflow\" their partner who has just given a speech. This can often be accomplished during the cross-examination or the prep time preceding the next speech. The 1NC requires backflowing because they need to flow what issues they are going to argue ('take') in the 1NR and the 2AC needs backflowing because they need a flow of these arguments so that they can carry the argument to the end of the round ('extend') during the 2AR. \n\nThe 1AC is not backflowed because most affirmative debaters are presumably already familiar with the arguments or they have flowed the arguments before or during the speech. The negative block is not backflowed because the 1NR is prepping during the 2NC and the 1NR has no further speeches. The rest of the rebuttals are not backflowed for the same reason.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "432232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432232", "title": "Food First", "text": "Food First\n\nFood First, also known as the Institute for Food and Development Policy, is a nonprofit organization based in Oakland, California, USA. Founded in 1975 by Frances Moore Lappé and Joseph Collins, it describes itself as a \"people's think tank and education-for-action center\".\n\nIts mission is “to eliminate the injustices that cause hunger”. According to the Food First website, its main goal is to forge food sovereignty for human rights and sustainable livelihoods, and to do so it has three programs of development: building local agri-foods systems, farmers forming food sovereignty, and democratizing development. The organization is meant to offer policy analysis on poverty, agriculture, and development, and is highly critical of the policies implemented by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The organization focuses on the Green Revolution which was supported in the 1970s and which did not produce the development people hoped for. Instead it put in place a system that has high input-costs, but does not produce a yield much higher than traditional farming methods. There has been a recent resurgence of Green Revolution ideas, especially with the large-scale support of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and high-yield-variety agriculture. Food First claims that these policies will only further global inequalities, and has produced several policy briefs stating that the way to establish fair and effective development is through local sustainable agriculture.\n\nThe organization began in 1975 as the Institute for Food and Development Policy (IFDP). The institute was founded by Frances Moore Lappé and Joseph Collins, and actually began in New York in Lappe’s basement before relocating to San Francisco, and then later to Oakland where it is still located. In 1977 the IFDP published its first work, \"Food First: Beyond the Myth of Scarcity\", and has since continued publishing policy briefs and analysis on the world food system and the inequalities that are caused by it. Today's Food First is managed by a board of trustees that has five members with backgrounds in different non-profit organizations. They have a shared vision of creating a more grass-roots based system of economic development through the endorsement of local and sustainable agriculture systems. The organization's president is Joyce E. King, whose work in sociology has focused on “women's participation in grass roots social change movements in Africa, South America and France”. In addition to the Board of Trustees, Food First has six staff members who work on the organization's policy briefs. The staff's executive director is Eric Holt-Gimenez, who has published several books on global inequalities and the global food system, including \"Food Rebellions! Crisis and the Hunger for Justice\", which outlines seven steps to solving the world food crisis. Finally, the organization benefits from the support of the general public through interns and volunteers who contribute to the process of policy research. Food First is a think-tank composed of many individuals from many different backgrounds, who share the organization's aim of eliminating global inequalities through the rethinking of the world's emphasis on industry-based economics, and shifting the paradigm towards a more inclusive form of economic development.\n\nThe organization has three programs that it implements in order to achieve this aim:\n\nFood First believes that world hunger is not an inevitable phenomenon that occurs simply because there is not enough food produced worldwide. Instead, it argues that there is an enormous surplus of food produced by corporate agri-businesses based in wealthy developed nations, and this enormous surplus of food is a reflection on broader global inequalities that deeply impact and harm marginalized third-world countries worldwide. While challenging the idea that world hunger exists because there is simply not enough food produced or available, Holz-Gimenez and Patel explain that, “…according to the FAO, with record grain harvests in 2007, there was more than enough food in the world to feed everyone-at least 1.5 times current demand”. Food First argues that world hunger is not caused by food production shortages, and in fact points the blame to systemic causes such as speculation on the market, investments in large-scale GMO farms that have higher input-costs, and the bio-fuels market. By illustrating these ideas, Food First tries to bring to the table a new approach to global hunger that they believe has been largely ignored.\n\nFood First supports a \"bottom-up\" approach to solving world hunger, asserting the ability of all countries to feed their own people if they focus on agriculture for subsistence rather than for export.\n\nFood First strongly opposes the policies of they deem to be free market institutions such as the World Trade Organization, World Bank, and International Monetary Fund. , it is active in the campaign against the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas.\n\n"}
{"id": "23777463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23777463", "title": "G-Book", "text": "G-Book\n\nG-Book is a telematics subscription service provided by Toyota Motor Corporation in Japan for its Toyota- and Lexus-branded vehicles. G-Book allows users to link with cellphones (such as the Toshiba T003 cellphone). personal digital assistants (PDA)'s, personal computers (PC) and G-Book equipped cars across Japan. It is based on the former GAZOO infrastructure (renamed Toyota Media Service Corporation) of Toyota's membership-based information service and membership system, and it provides interactive information services via vehicle installed touch-screen wireless communication terminals. It also incorporates information from Toyota Mapmaster Inc. which updates digital mapping information and is used by various international companies.\n\nThe subscription service replaces the need to periodically update in-car navigation systems that use CD, or DVD installed maps that must be updated with the latest information. The maps are sent by internet connections established through the drivers cellphone with a data download plan associated with the cellphone.\n\nA G-Book application can be installed on select mobile devices, thereby providing the technology without having to purchase a vehicle installed with the technology.\n\nA proprietary service with additional functions for the Lexus division, G-Link, debuted on Japan-market Lexus models starting in model year 2006. Toyota made available G-Book devices as optional equipment in all Japanese domestic market Toyota, Daihatsu and Lexus vehicles starting with model year 2007. An article posted by \"Response.jp\" stated in an article on July 15, 2009 that Toyota was introducing G-Book in a specially identified Toyota Camry to be sold in Beijing, China. As of November 2009 the G-Book-equipped Camry is available in Shanghai as well. G-Book was also introduced on Lexus models in China in 2009.\n\nIn Japan (T-Connect Japan), and recently in Middle East countries (Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar and UAE) T-Connect is being offered as a download from Apple's AppStore and Google Play as a subscription telematics service, which uses the G-Book architecture.\n\nThere are three versions of G-Book being offered; G-Book mX (and G-Book mX Pro), G-Book Alpha (and G-Book Alpha Pro) and G-Book.\n\nSome of the services G-Book offers are a Safety and Security service, which aids in requesting a tow truck and vehicle location service, Live Navigation where an operator gives turn-by-turn directions, Information Service which provides news, weather forecasts and stock market information, Communication Service that offers the ability to send and receive web based e-mail, and post and read on message boards, E-commerce Service, that allows merchandise to be purchased from the GAZOO Shopping Mall, and a live operator is available through OSS (Operator Support Service) for various issues.\nOne of the features offered exclusively on G-Book mX is Probe Communication Traffic Information. According to the press release from Toyota dated April 10, 2007, \"This unique Toyota traffic information service gathers driving data – such as speed and position – from vehicles equipped with G-Book mX to provide drivers with alternate routes for avoiding traffic congestion. Because it makes use of the on-board DCM (data communications module), the information gathering capability of this service is superior to similar systems, which rely solely on cell phones, and efficiently stores information about traffic congestion in real time at the G-Book Center. In this way the Probe Communication Traffic Information service supplements Vehicle Information and Communication System (VICS) information with updates on traffic congestion, providing drivers with highly accurate predictions about the current traffic situation and suggestions for the best alternate routes to take.\" This feature is being marketed as an ability to drive eco-friendly, by helping to avoid pollution created by cars idling in traffic and allowing the driver to reach their destination sooner, and affording the opportunity to turn the car off, limiting emissions being added to the atmosphere.\n\nThe wireless communications for Japan-market cars are handled by the DCM and transmits and receives information on the wireless network owned by Japanese telecommunications provider KDDI Corporation headquartered in Okinawa. The cellular platform used is the CDMA2000 1x (CDMA 1X) method, and it is possible to receive up to 144kbit/s data. The same DCM is used for China-market models, thus the network provider for China-market G-Book services is China Telecom. Map updates and music downloads are not available for China-market G-Book-enabled cars, and traffic information is only available in Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen.\n\nG-Book Alpha Pro, mX Pro DCM-only, and CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (CDMA 1X WIN) can send up to 2.4Mbit/s of data, and the DCM supports hands-free calls. The DCM model is also equipped with its own GPS receiver and features, to track a stolen vehicle, and it also has an emergency notification ability to transmit the location of airbag deployment.\n\nAccording to a press release from Toyota dated August 28, 2002 \"Navigational maps and the on-board terminal's basic software are stored in a Secure Digital (SD) card. The card can be inserted into \"E-TOWER\" terminals at convenience stores and other locations to download local or new maps or to upgrade the on-board terminal's basic software. Music and games can also be downloaded, and the SD card is compatible with commercially available audio players, digital cameras and PDAs that use SD cards, making it possible to share content such as music files, images and games.\" E-Tower locations can be found at numerous locations, including Circle K of Japan.\n\nOffered at Lexus' Japanese domestic market launch in 2005, G-Link is the proprietary Lexus telematics system for the Japanese market. G-Link has a different software configuration versus G-Book, particularly in its link to the 24-hour Lexus Owner's Desk hotline, and is offered standard for the first three years of ownership. Other aspects of the system at its 2005 launch were based on G-Book Alpha capabilities. The G-Link software runs off of the vehicle's hard disc drive navigation system and song library, and includes traffic updates, HelpNet compatibility, and the G-Security service. The G-Security service includes cellphone notification of vehicle lock and position status. A G-Sound music distribution service offers samples and downloading to the vehicle's hard disc drive of MP3s from different genres. A U.S. equivalent of the G-Link system with similar but not identical functionality, called Lexus Enform with Safety Connect, was launched in 2009.\n\nIn 2006, Japanese media reported that a Lexus-branded cellphone was also being produced with compatibility for the G-Link system. This cellphone service would be produced in conjunction with the KDDI telecommunications service provider, and is called \"au\", using Apple and Sony products.\n\nToyota is working with other Japanese car manufacturers, such as Mitsubishi, Subaru and Daihatsu to provide the service in the Japanese language. Mazda has also agreed to offer the service in Japan, with an intent to install the service starting with the 2005 model. Competing services are called \"Nissan Car Wings\", and Internavi \"Internavi Premium Club (Japanese)\" by Honda. In the U.S., the Safety Connect system was produced based on the G-Book system architecture, with similar functionality, along with an expanded Lexus Enform service.\n\nThe G-Book feature is similar to \"W44T\" offered in Japan by Toshiba, and \"Pipit\" in an agreement with Toyota and Willcom in Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025411", "title": "Garrett Hardin", "text": "Garrett Hardin\n\nGarrett James Hardin (April 21, 1915 – September 14, 2003) was an American ecologist and philosopher who warned of the dangers of overpopulation. His exposition of the tragedy of the commons, in a famous 1968 paper in \"Science\", called attention to \"the damage that innocent actions by individuals can inflict on the environment\". He is also known for Hardin's First Law of Human Ecology: \"We can never do merely one thing. Any intrusion into nature has numerous effects, many of which are unpredictable.\"\n\nHardin received a B.S. in zoology from the University of Chicago in 1936 and a PhD in microbiology from Stanford University in 1941 where his dissertation research addressed symbiosis among microorganisms. Moving to the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1946, he served there as Professor of Human Ecology from 1963 until his (nominal) retirement in 1978. He was among the first members of the Society for General Systems Research.\n\nA major focus of his career, and one to which he returned repeatedly, was the issue of human overpopulation. This led to writings on controversial subjects such as advocating abortion rights, which earned him criticism from the political right, and advocating eugenics by forced sterilization, and strict limits to non-western immigration, which earned him criticism from the political left. In his essays, he also tackled subjects such as conservation and creationism.\n\nIn 1968 Hardin applied his conceptual model developed in his essay \"The tragedy of the commons\" to human population growth, the use of the Earth's natural resources, and the welfare state. His essay cited an 1833 pamphlet by the English economist William Forster Lloyd which included an example of herders sharing a common parcel of land, which would lead to overgrazing.\n\nHardin blamed the welfare state for allowing the tragedy of the commons; where the state provides for children and supports over-breeding as a fundamental human right, Malthusian catastrophe is inevitable. Hardin stated in his analysis of the tragedy of the commons that \"Freedom in a commons brings ruin to all.\" However, environmental historians Joachim Radkau, Alfred Thomas Grove and Oliver Rackham denounced Hardin \"as an American with no notion at all how Commons actually work\".\n\nIn addition, Hardin's pessimistic outlook was subsequently contradicted by Elinor Ostrom's later work on success of co-operative structures like the management of common land, for which she shared the 2009 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Oliver E. Williamson. In contrast to Hardin, they stated neither commons or \"Allmende\" in the generic nor classical meaning are bound to fail; to the contrary \"the wealth of the commons\" has gained renewed interest in the scientific community. Hardin's work was also criticized as historically inaccurate in failing to account for the demographic transition, and for failing to distinguish between common property and open access resources.\n\nIt should be noted that Lloyd's original example, re-discovered by Hardin, could only apply to unregulated use of land regarded as a common resource. Normally, rights of use of Common land in England and Wales were, and still are, closely regulated, and available only to \"commoners\". If excessive use was made of common land, for example in overgrazing, a common would be \"stinted\", that is, a limit would be put on the number of animals each commoner was allowed to graze. These regulations were responsive to demographic and economic pressure; thus rather than let a common become degraded, access was restricted even further. Controls on usage can help mitigate the tragedy of the commons.\n\nIn 1993, Garrett Hardin published \"Living Within Limits: Ecology, Economics, and Population Taboos\", which he described at the time as a summation of all his previous works. The book won the 1993 Phi Beta Kappa Award in Science. In the book, he argues that the natural sciences are grounded in the concept of limits (such as the speed of light), while social sciences, such as economics, are grounded in concepts that have no limits (such as the widespread \"infinite-Earth\" economic models). He notes that most of the more notable scientific (as opposed to political) debates concerning ecological economics are between natural scientists, such as Paul R. Ehrlich, and economists, such as Julian Simon, one of Ehrlich's most well known and vocal detractors. A strong theme throughout the book is that economics, as a discipline, can be as much about mythology and ideology as it is about real science.\n\nHardin goes on to label those who reflexively argue for growth as \"growthmaniacs\", and argues against the institutional faith in \"exponential growth\" on a finite planet. Typical of Hardin's\nwriting style, he illustrates exponential growth by way of a Biblical metaphor. Using compound interest, or \"usury\", he starts from the infamous \"thirty pieces of silver\" and, using 5% compounded interest, finds that after around 2,000 years, \"every man, woman, and child would be entitled to only (!) 160,000 earth-masses of gold\". As a consequence, he argues that any economy based on long-term compound interest must eventually fail due to the physical and mathematical impossibility of long-term exponential growth on a finite planet. Hardin writes, \"At this late date millions of people believe in the fertility of money with an ardor seldom accorded to traditional religious doctrines\". He argues that, contrary to some socially-motivated claims, population growth is also exponential growth, therefore even a little would be disastrous anywhere in the world, and that even the richest nations are not immune.\n\nHardin, who suffered from a heart disorder and the aftermath of childhood poliomyelitis, and his wife, Jane, who suffered from Lou Gehrig's disease, were members of End-of-Life Choices, formerly known as the Hemlock Society.\n\nBelieving in individuals' choice of when to die, they committed suicide in their Santa Barbara home in September 2003, shortly after their 62nd wedding anniversary. He was 88 and she was 81.\n\nHardin caused controversy for his support of anti-immigrant causes during his lifetime and possible connectons to the white nationalist movement. The Southern Poverty Law Center noted that Hardin served on the board of the Federation for American Immigration Reform and Social Contract Press and co-founded the anti-immigraton Californians for Population Stabilization and The Environmental Fund, which according to the SPLC \"served to lobby Congress for nativist and isolationist policies.\"\n\nIn October 1974, he published the article \"Living on a Lifeboat\" in \"BioScience\" magazine, arguing that contributing food to help the Ethiopian famine would add to overpopulation, which he considered the root of Ethiopia's problems.\n\nHardin at points also supported racist and white nationalist thought. In 1994, he was one of 52 signatories on \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence\", an editorial written by Linda Gottfredson and published in the \"Wall Street Journal\", which declared the consensus of the signing scholars on issues related to race and intelligence following the publication of the book \"The Bell Curve\". It claimed that the average IQ among the African-American population was only 85, amongst other pseudo-scientific and scientifically racist- based claims. On February 11, 1998, he debated Christian philosopher William Lane Craig at the University of California, Santa Barbara.\n\nHardin's last book \"The Ostrich Factor: Our Population Myopia\" (1999), a warning about the threat of overpopulation to the Earth's sustainable economic future, called for coercive constraints on \"unqualified reproductive rights\" and argued that affirmative action is a form of racism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4524802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4524802", "title": "Golden Charter of Bern", "text": "Golden Charter of Bern\n\nThe Golden Charter of Bern (also: \"Golden Bull\", in German: \"Goldene Handfeste\" or \"Berner Handfeste\") is a medieval charter purporting to have been issued by Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II. It establishes the town privileges of Bern (now the capital of Switzerland), making it an Imperial Free City and, effectively, an independent state. The charter is dated to 1218, but is now believed by most scholars to be a Bernese forgery from the middle of the 13th century.\n\nThe charter's 54 articles provided for extensive privileges, including the free election of the Schultheiss (i.e., mayor) and the right to autonomously legislate. It also provided for the establishment of an Imperial Mint, which was established in 1228 at the latest, to coin \"Berner Pfennige\". These rights were formally confirmed by King Rudolf I in 1274, and the issue of the charter's authenticity thus made moot. The charter is called \"golden\" due to its impressive (and undoubtedly authentic) golden bull, or seal. Its face shows Frederick on the throne with his Emperor's regalia, circumscribed \"Frederick, by the Grace of God Roman King, ever increasing the Empire, King of Sicily.\"\n\nThe issue of whether the charter — regarded as Bern's founding document for centuries — is authentic has been contentious among historians since the 1860s. Modern researchers now seem to agree that it is a forgery done on behalf of Bern's government during the middle of the 13th century, done to establish in writing the rights the city had in practice seized decades previously. They point out that the exceptional liberties granted by the charter were very atypical for the time, and that the writing seems to match that of one writer in the Frienisberg monastery. Monasteries, at that time, were masters of the \"pia fraus\", the \"pious fraud\" of falsifying documents to match a dead benefactor's supposed intent. On the other hand, X-ray analysis in 2002 did not reveal any indication that (as had been assumed) the authentic bull had been removed from an authentic document and then re-affixed to the Bernese charter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16541275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541275", "title": "Government of Slovakia", "text": "Government of Slovakia\n\nThe Government of the Slovak Republic () is the head of the executive branch of state in Slovakia.\n\nIt is led by the Prime Minister of Slovakia, who is nominated by the President of Slovakia, and is usually the leader of majority party or of majority coalition after an election to the National Council of the Slovak Republic. The Cabinet appointed by the president on recommendation of the prime minister must gain a vote of confidence in the National Council.\n\nAs the chief formulator of the nation's public policy under the Slovak Constitution, the Government has the authority to make major policy on the matters of national economy and social security. Acting in the best interests of the nation, it is responsible for meeting the Government programme objectives within the scope of the adopted national budget. The main functions of the Government also include making proposals on the state budget, preparing the annual closing balance sheet, and issue government regulations and decrees under power given to it by law. One of the Government's duties is the formulation and management of the nation's foreign policy. It submits draft Bills to the National Council (the Slovak parliament), which are frequently preceded by nationwide discussions and consultations with the relevant organizations. As established by law, the Government can discuss in its proceedings a confidence vote motion, cases of pardoning criminal offenders, and appointment or removal from office of senior civil servants.\n\nThe Cabinet is made up of the Prime Minister, presiding over it, his or her Deputies and Government Ministers. The Cabinet is appointed by the President of the Slovak Republic on the recommendation of the Prime Minister. For its policy and administration the members of the Cabinet are responsible to the National Council (the Slovak parliament).\n\nFollowing the Slovak parliamentary election, 2016, the current prime minister, Robert Fico, has been serving with his government, the Third Fico Cabinet, since 23 March 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "232435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232435", "title": "Green belt", "text": "Green belt\n\nA green belt or greenbelt is a policy and land use zone designation used in land use planning to retain areas of largely undeveloped, wild, or agricultural land surrounding or neighbouring urban areas. Similar concepts are greenways or green wedges which have a linear character and may run through an urban area instead of around it. In essence, a green belt is an invisible line designating a border around a certain area, preventing development of the area and allowing wildlife to return and be established.\n\nIn those countries which have them, the stated objectives of green belt policy are to:\n\nThe green belt has many benefits for people:\n\nThe effectiveness of green belts differs depending on location and country. They can often be eroded by urban rural fringe uses and sometimes, development 'jumps' over the green belt area, resulting in the creation of \"satellite towns\" which, although separated from the city by green belt, function more like suburbs than independent communities.\n\nThe Old Testament outlines a proposal for a green belt around the Levite towns in the Land of Israel. Moses Maimonides expounded that the greenbelt plan from the Old Testament referred to all towns in ancient Israel. In the 7th century, Muhammad established a green belt around Medina. He did this by prohibiting any further removal of trees in a 12-mile long strip around the city. In 1580 Elizabeth I of England banned new building in a 3-mile wide belt around the City of London in an attempt to stop the spread of plague. However, this was not widely enforced and it was possible to buy dispensations which reduced the effectiveness of the proclamation.\n\nIn modern times, the term emerged from continental Europe where broad boulevards were increasingly used to separate new development from the centre of historic towns; most notably the Ringstraße in Vienna. Green belt policy was then pioneered in the United Kingdom confronted with ongoing rural flight. Various proposals were put forward from 1890 onwards but the first to garner widespread support was put forward by the London Society in its \"Development Plan of Greater London\" 1919. Alongside the CPRE they lobbied for a continuous belt (of up to two miles wide) to prevent urban sprawl, beyond which new development could occur.\n\nThere are fourteen green belt areas in the UK covering 16,716 km² or 13% of England, and 164 km² of Scotland; for a detailed discussion of these, see Green belt (UK). Other notable examples are the Ottawa Greenbelt and Golden Horseshoe Greenbelt in Ontario, Canada. Ottawa's instance is managed by the National Capital Commission (NCC). The more general term in the United States is green space or greenspace, which may be a very small area such as a park.\n\nThe dynamic Adelaide Park Lands, measuring approximately 7.6 km² surround, unbroken, the city centre of Adelaide. On the fringe of the eastern suburbs, an expansive natural greenbelt in the Adelaide Hills acts as a growth boundary for Adelaide and cools the city in the hottest months.\n\nThe concept of \"green belt\" has evolved in recent years to encompass not only \"Greenspace\" but also \"Greenstructure\" which comprises all urban and peri-urban greenspaces, an important aspect of sustainable development in the 21st century. The European Commission's COST Action C11\n(COST – European Cooperation in Science and Technology) is undertaking\n\"Case studies in Greenstructure Planning\" involving 15 European countries.\n\nAn act of the Swedish parliament from 1994 has declared a series of parks in Stockholm and the adjacent municipality of Solna to its north a \"national city park\" called Royal National City Park.\n\nWhen paired with a city which is economically prospering, homes in a Green belt may have been motivated by or result in considerable premiums. They may also be more economically resilient as popular among the retired and less attractive for short-term renting of modest homes. Where in the city itself demand exceeds supply in housing, green belt homes compete directly with much city housing wherever such green belt homes are well-connected to the city. Further, they in all cases attract a future-guaranteed premium for protection of their views, recreational space and for the preservation/conservation value itself. Most also benefit from higher rates of urban gardening and farming, particularly when done in a community setting, which have positive effects on nutrition, fitness, self-esteem, and happiness, providing a benefit for both physical and mental health, in all cases easily provided or accessed in a green belt. Government planners also seek to protect the green belt as its local farmers are engaged in peri-urban agriculture which augments carbon sequestration, reduces the urban heat island effect, and provides a habitat for organisms. Peri-urban agriculture may also help recycle urban greywater and other products of wastewater, helping to conserve water and reduce waste.\n\nThe housing market contrasts with more uncertainty and economic liberalism inside and immediately outside of the belt: Green Belt homes have by definition nearby protected landscapes. Local residents in affluent parts of a Green Belt, as in parts of the city, can be assured of preserving any localised bourgeois status quo present and so assuming the Green Belt is not from the outset an area of more social housing proportionately than the city, it naturally tends toward greater economic wealth. In a protracted housing shortage, reduction of the Green Belt is one of the possible solutions. All such solutions may be resisted however by private landlords who profit from a scarcity of housing, for example by lobbying to restrain new housing across the city. The stated motivation and benefits of the green belt might be well-intentioned (public health, social gardening and agriculture, environment), but inadequately realised relative to other solutions. \n\nInherently partial critics include Mark Pennington and the economics-heavy think tanks such as the Institute of Economic Affairs who would see a reduction in many Green Belts. Such studies focus on widely inherent limitations of Green Belts. In most examples only a small fraction of the population uses the green belt for leisure purposes. The IEA study claims that a green belt is not strongly causally linked to clean air and water. Rather, they view the ultimate result of the decision to green-belt a city as one to prevent housing demand within the zone to be met with supply, thus exacerbating high housing prices and stifling competitive forces in general. \n\nAnother area of criticism comes from the fact that, since a greenbelt does not extend indefinitely outside a city, it spurs the growth of areas much further away from the city core than if it had not existed, thereby actually \"increasing\" urban sprawl. Examples commonly cited are the Ottawa suburbs of Kanata and Orleans, both of which are outside the city's greenbelt, and are currently undergoing explosive growth (see Greenbelt (Ottawa)). This leads to other problems, as residents of these areas have a longer commute to work places in the city and worse access to public transport. It also means people have to commute through the green belt, an area not designed to cope with high levels of transportation. Not only is the merit of a green belt subverted, but the green belt may heighten the problem and make the city unsustainable.\n\nThere are many examples whereby the actual effect of green belts is to act as a land reserve for future freeways and other highways. Examples include sections of the 407 highway north of Toronto and the Hunt Club Rd./Richmond Rd. south of Ottawa. Whether they are originally planned as such, or the result of a newer administration taking advantage of land that was left available by its predecessors is debatable.\n\nIn the UK, greenbelt around the major conurbations has been criticized as one of the main protectionist bars to building housing, the others being other planning restrictions (Local Plans and restrictive covenants) and developers' land banking. Local Plans and land banking are to be relaxed for home building in the 2015-2030 period by law and the green belt will be reduced by some local authorities as each local authority must now consider it among the available shortlisted options in drawing development plans to meet higher housing targets. Critics argue that the greenbelts defeat their stated objective of saving the countryside and open spaces. Such criticism falls shorts when considering the other, broader benefits such as peri-urban agriculture which includes gardening and carries many benefits, especially to the retired. It also ignores the strategic aims of the Attlee Ministry in 1946, just as in France, of shifting capital away from the capital (addressing regional disparity) and avoiding intra-urban gridlock. The restrictions of the Green Belt were particularly in the 1940s-1980s mitigated with planned, government-supported, new towns under the New Towns Act 1946 and New Towns Act 1981. These saw establishment beyond the greenbelts of new homes, infrastructure, businesses and other facilities. Without large scale sustainable development, infill development sees urban green space lost. A chronic housing shortage with inadequate new settlements and/or extension of those outside of the green belt and/or no green belt reduction has seen many brownfield sites, often well-suited to industry and commerce, lost in existing conurbations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52238011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52238011", "title": "Harriet Maxwell Converse", "text": "Harriet Maxwell Converse\n\nHarriet Maxwell Converse (née, Harriet Arnot Maxwell; Seneca clan name, Gayaneshaoh; Seneca tribal name, Ya-ih-wah-non or Gaiiwanoh; 11 January 1836 - 18 November 1903) was an American author of Scottish and Irish heritage. She was a folklorist, poet and historian of the Iroquois; by the late 19th century, they were a loose confederacy of six nations in New York State and Canada. She became an advocate for the rights of the Seneca and other Iroquois tribes in New York state, helping them retain their lands and preserve their culture. In recognition of her contributions, the Seneca made her a member of the tribe and gave her an honorary position as a sachem or chief of the Six Nations.\n\nWith an appropriation in 1897 from the New York State Museum, Converse made extensive purchases of Iroquois artifacts from private collectors and tribes to have them preserved by the state. She also donated a family collection that was a century old. She persuaded the Onondaga to transfer their collection of historic wampum belts of the Five Nations to the state museum for preservation.\n\nHarriet Arnot Maxwell was born in Elmira, New York, in 1836, daughter of Thomas Maxwell and Maria (Purdy) Maxwell. Her father had a concern for Native Americans in New York State and was active in politics; he was elected and served in office at the county, state and federal level, being elected as a Congressman. He later became vice-president of the Erie Railroad. Her mother was a woman of culture and education. Her paternal grandfather, Guy Maxwell, had been an Indian trader in Virginia and New York, moving to Elmira in the late 18th century after the United States achieved independence. Both men had been adopted by the Seneca to honor them. Her mother Maria died when Harriet was nine, and her father sent the girl to live with relatives in Milan, Ohio. There she attended public school.\n\nConverse entered a larger public life after her second marriage. After she and her husband traveled, in the late 1860s they happened to meet Ely S. Parker in New York City. He was a Seneca who had become an engineer and served with General Ulysses S. Grant in the American Civil War. He was highly influential in the Seneca Nation and in New York politics.\n\nHarriet Converse became increasingly involved in learning about the Seneca, with Parker's help. She became inspired to defend the rights of the Iroquois by aiding them politically with her wealth and support, and helped to preserve their culture.\n\nIn 1885 Converse was formally adopted by the Snipe Clan ia Seneca family.\n\nIn 1883 she published her first volume of poems, \"Sheaves\" (New York City, 1883), which passed through several editions. She also wrote an ode \"The Ho-de-no-sau-nee: The Confederacy of the Iroquois\" (1884).\n\nConverse was a productive writer of non-fiction, contributing to several magazines and newspapers. Among her works are the historical volumes, \"The Religious Festivals of the Iroquois Indians\" and \"Mythology and Folk Lore of the North American Indians.\" These have been criticized as being sentimental accounts.\n\nIn 1891 Converse was a member of a delegation to Albany, New York to oppose the Whipple Bill before the New York State Assembly; it was designed to force the distribution of communal land in allotments to individual heads of households, along the lines of the federal Dawes Act to extinguish Indian land claims. It was an action designed to assimilate the Iroquois to subsistence farming in the European-American model and force a break-up of their reservations in the state. She helped achieve its defeat in committee. Converse had been invited by the Iroquois to sit in their Six-Nation Council held in Albany. No white woman except Mary Jemison, who had been adopted and assimilated by the Seneca as a young woman after being taken captive in a raid, had ever been honored in this way. Most of the Iroquois had been forced from the area during and after the American Revolutionary War, as four of the Six Nations had allied with the British in the hopes of pushing out the Anglo-American settlers.\n\nAfter the bill was defeated, the Seneca National Council convened at Carrollton, in the Allegany Reservation. During this 1891 session, members moved to make Converse an official member of the Seneca Nation as an honor, naming her \"Ya-ie-wa-noh,\" after the wife of their notable chief Cornplanter. The motion was passed by the Council. In 1892 the Onondaga Nation \"raised her up\" to the position of sachem, to take the place of one who had died, and she was considered an honorary chief of the Six Nations.\n\nAmong her most important work was Converse's purchases and donations to preserve Iroquois artifacts; many are held today by the New York State Museum in Albany and the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. In 1897 she was given an appropriation to buy from private collectors and tribes; she also donated her family's collection, which had items that were a century old. She also persuaded the Onondaga to have the NY State Museum made the repository for their historic collection of wampum belts of the Five Nations.\n\nIn 1902 Converse publicized her opposition to a federal bill in both New York City and Washington, DC, and helped achieve its defeat. It would have required the Seneca to pay a crushing $200,000 to settle a claim by the Ogden Land Company, over an early 19th-century transaction.\n\nHarriet Maxwell married George B. Clarke in Ohio, who was a part owner of the Congress Spring in Saratoga Springs, New York. He died relatively young. Inheriting his estate as well as from her father in 1864, who was vice-president of the Erie Railroad before his death, left her independently wealthy. In 1861 the widow Clarke had married again, to Franklin Buchanan Converse, whom she knew from childhood. He was a musician, inventor and writer. She had no children from either marriage. The couple traveled extensively for several years.\n\n"}
{"id": "7433856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433856", "title": "History of the New Jersey State Constitution", "text": "History of the New Jersey State Constitution\n\nOriginally, the state of New Jersey was a single British colony, the Province of New Jersey. After the English Civil War, Charles II assigned New Jersey as a proprietary colony to be held jointly by Sir George Carteret and John Berkeley, 1st Baron Berkeley of Stratton. Eventually, the collection of land fees, or quit-rents, from colonists proved inadequate for colonial profitability. Sir George Carteret sold his share of the colony to the Quakers in 1673. Following the sale, the land was divided into East and West Jersey. In 1681, West Jersey adopted a constitution. In 1683, East Jersey adopted one as well. In 1702, the colonies were united again under Anne, Queen of Great Britain, and adopted a constitution in 1776.\n\nNew Jersey is governed under a constitution that was enacted in 1947 during a convention held at Rutgers University's College Avenue Gymnasium in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Much of the political structure of the 1844 constitution was carried into the 1947 document. The governor, elected by the people, was elected for a four-year term instead of a three-year term.\n\nHowever, the old means of electing legislators with state senators decided by county boundaries was deemed unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States. Under this system, a county with a large population made equal to a county with a small population in having only one senator. The Supreme Court in \"Baker v. Carr\" 369 U.S. 186 (1962) and \"Reynolds v. Simms\", 377 U.S. 533 (1964) found this to violate the \"one-man, one-vote\" doctrine embodied in the Federal Constitution's 14th Amendment Equal Protection Clause. A constitutional convention held in 1966 created a state legislature with 40 coterminous legislative districts represented by one state senator and two state assemblymen.\n\nIn 2005, the constitution was amended to create the post of Lieutenant Governor, and to alter the order of succession in the event the governor's office was vacated. The resignation of two governors in 2001 and 2004 led to the state being led by several acting governor who simultaneously served as the president of the state senate. The issues regarding the separation of executive and legislative powers, and other concerns created a political controversy where public and media pressure sought a permanent solution to this problem which was inherited from previous state and colonial constitutions and political conventions.\n\nNew Jersey has been governed under the authority of several constitutional documents. As a colony, the first, the \"Concession and Agreement\" (1665), was written by the colony's Lords Proprietors, Sir George Carteret and John Berkeley, 1st Baron Berkeley of Stratton, which offered broad provisions for religious freedom. After the interests of Lord Berkeley and Carteret were sold to investors, New Jersey was divided into two distinct proprietary colonies West Jersey, and East Jersey each with their own constitutions enacted in 1681 and 1683 respectively. The proprietors were compelled to cede their political authority to the Crown, and both colonies were reunited in 1702 as a Crown colony under the direct command of Queen Anne.\n\nAt the onset of the American Revolution, New Jersey was governed by waning British colonial authority. William Franklin, the province's last royal governor before the American Revolution (1775–83), was marginalized in the last year of his tenure, as the province was run \"de facto\" by the Provincial Congress of New Jersey. Franklin considered the Provincial Congress to be an \"illegal assembly\" and attempted to reassert royal authority. In June 1776, the Provincial Congress formally deposed Franklin and had him arrested, adopted its first state constitution on July 2, 1776, and reorganized the province into an independent state. The newly formed State of New Jersey elected William Livingston as its first governor on August 31, 1776—a position he would be reelected to until his death in 1790.\n\nWhile New Jersey was in a state of war, delegates of the Provincial Congress drafted the first constitution in a span of five days and ratified it only two days later. Its primary objective was to provide a basic governmental framework that would assume control of the territory after the collapse of royal authority and maintain civil order. This constitution served as the charter document for the State's government for the next 68 years. Among its provisions, the document granted suffrage rights to unmarried women and African-Americans who met the requirements of possessing sufficient assets or property as \"freeholders\". The legislature was elected each year and selected the state's governor. It did not specify an amendment procedure and had to be replaced entirely in a constitutional convention. The suffrage rights in the 1776 constitution were limited by the state legislature in 1807 to restrict voting rights to white male citizens who paid taxes. Women who voted in earlier elections tended to support the Federalist Party, and this effort was largely an effort of the Democratic-Republican Party's attempt to unify its factions for the 1808 presidential election.\n\nThe state's second constitution was adopted on June 29, 1844. Among its provisions was a distinct separation of powers into three branches (executive, legislative and judicial branches), limiting the right to vote to white males, and granted the people (as opposed to the legislature) the right of a popular election for the state's governor. The document limited the state government's ability to accumulate public debt.\n\nConcession and Agreement was a legal document that guaranteed rights; including, but not only, religious freedom. It served as the basic governing document of the colony of New Jersey. Although the document is most commonly recognized as an enticement for settlers, it is in the basic form of any colonial charter or constitution, and guarantees such rights.\n\nIn 1681, West Jersey adopted a constitution.\n\nThe constitution of East Jersey, unlike West Jersey's, did not seemingly have a section of the traditional colonial constitution missing. Within their constitution was a detailed creation of a great Council, who would control the colony. The constitution also created a somewhat abbreviated enumeration of rights. The constitution also bans the admission of any non-Christian into the council. A vestige from the Stamp Act, Article XVIII is an archaic section of a since-repealed act.\n\nNew Jersey's first state constitution was adopted on October 31, 1776. The American Revolutionary War was underway and George Washington had recently been defeated in New York, putting New Jersey in imminent danger of invasion. With Patriot and Tory factions plotting and battling each other, New Jersey was a state at war and was nearly a state at civil war. Composed in a span of five days at the end of June and ratified just two days later on July 2, 1776, the first New Jersey State Constitution reflected the turbulence and uncertainty of the moment. Its primary objective was to provide a basic governmental framework and preempt New Jersey's fall into anarchy. And yet despite being conceived in a state of military emergency, this Constitution was durable enough to serve as the charter document for the State government for the next 68 years.\n\nA notable aspect of this original 1776 New Jersey State Constitution is that it provisioned suffrage to citizens without regard to gender or race. New Jersey stood alone among the original thirteen states of the Revolutionary period in excluding these distinctions. As set out in its defining constitutional document, only three provisos restricted those claiming the vote: (i) being of \"full age\", (ii) having attained a threshold level of wealth, and (iii) having residence within a county during the year prior to an election. Section IV of this original State of New Jersey Constitution captures these ideas in its single sentence:\n\nThat all inhabitants of this Colony, of full age, who are worth fifty pounds proclamation money, clear estate in the same, and have resided within the county in which they claim a vote for twelve months immediately preceding the election, shall be entitled to vote for Representatives in Council and Assembly; and also for all other public officers, that shall be elected by the people of the county at large.\n\nThe New Jersey legislature did amend this constitution on September 20, 1777, by substituting the words \" State \" and \" States \" for \" colony \" and \" colonies.\" \n\nSome have argued that New Jersey's gender-neutral language was a mistake, but most historians agree that the clear intention was to allow some women and African Americans to vote.\n\nThe minimum property requirement would have meant that some married women would be regarded differently than single women.\n\nAlthough common laws of Coverture enforced in some areas prevented even married women who had sufficient property from holding it their own name or as joint property in the way needed to meet that requirement for voting, coverture was not universally applied. Also some couples might have been exercising civil disobedience of the laws of coverture and the women would have voted pursuant to this open stance of verbalized objection to the law.\n\nLarge numbers of single women did regularly participate in elections and spoke out on political issues in New Jersey in the 1790s and 1800s.\n\nIf there were any lingering doubts about their intentions, the passage of New Jersey's 1797 voting law—which introduced the phrase \"he or she\" in reference to voters—erased them and clarified for all that the right to vote across the state was for both men and women. The Act—passed by the New Jersey Assembly on February 22, 1797—was called \"An Act to regulate the Election of Members of the Legislative-Council and the General Assembly, Sheriffs and Coroners, in this State\" and it revised the regulations for the election of public officials. The law specifically included women in the franchise. Section XI of the Act stated:\n\nAnd be it enacted, That every voter shall openly, and in full view deliver his or her ballot (which shall be a single written ticket, containing the names of the person or persons for whom he or she votes) to the said judge, or either of the inspectors, who, on receipt thereof, shall, with an audible voice, pronounce the name of such voter, and if no objection is made to the voter, put the ballot immediately into the election box, and the clerk of the election shall thereupon take down the name of such voter in a book or poll list, to be provided for the purpose.\n\nBetween 1797 and 1807 women voted in large numbers in New Jersey. But in 1807 the state's legislature ignored the constitution and restricted suffrage to white male citizens who paid taxes. This was largely a result of the Democratic-Republican Party's attempt to unify its factions for the 1808 presidential election. A faction within the party wanted to deny the vote to aliens and the non-tax-paying poor. The liberal faction within the party gave way on this, but also took the vote from women, who tended to vote for the Federal.\n\nNew Jersey's 30-year experiment with female suffrage ended not mainly because of open opposition to the idea of women voting, but as a casualty of party politics and backroom bartering. Another factor was the renewed push by some groups to reinforce the importance of women in the home—and out of the public realm. It also did not help that in the intervening decades no other state had followed New Jersey's more progressive voting approach. \n\nSome historians have viewed the New Jersey episode as evidence that the founders entertained the possibility that women could have political rights. The emphasis on liberty and natural rights in the Revolutionary period brought previously excluded groups into the political process. For example, women took the lead in organizing boycotts of British goods in the disputes over colonial rights that led to the Revolution. The writers of New Jersey's 1776 constitution took the natural rights sentiment further than other states were willing to go. But by 1807, the Revolutionary era had passed and Revolutionary fervor was a dimming memory. New Jersey therefore succumbed and fell in line with the practice of the other states.\n\nThe 2nd constitution was adopted on June 29, 1844. Among its provisions was a distinct separation of powers into three branches (executive, legislative and judicial branches), limiting the right to vote to white males, and granted the people (as opposed to the legislature) the right of a popular election for the state's governor. The document limited the state government's ability to accumulate public debt.\n\nThe Constitutional Convention that drafted the state's 1947 constitution met at the Rutgers University Gymnasium on College Avenue in New Brunswick.\n\nAnother constitutional convention was held at the Rutgers University campus to rectify the apportionment of legislative districts after the Supreme Court invalidated the state's scheme for electing state senators geographically by county boundaries instead of population as violative of the \"one-man, one-vote\" doctrine embodied in the Federal Constitution's 14th Amendment Equal Protection Clause. This was compelled in the wake of court decisions in Baker v. Carr (1962) 369 U.S. 186 and Reynolds v. Simms, 377 U.S. 533 (1964).\n\nA 2005 amendment changed the order of succession and created a position of Lieutenant Governor.\n\n"}
{"id": "730556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730556", "title": "Jean Ziegler", "text": "Jean Ziegler\n\nJean Ziegler (; born April 19, 1934 as Hans Ziegler) is a former professor of sociology at the University of Geneva and the Sorbonne, Paris. Currently vice-president of the Advisory Committee to the United Nations Human Rights Council. He was a Member of Parliament for the Social Democrats in the Federal Assembly of Switzerland from 1981 to 1999. He has also held several positions with the United Nations, especially as Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food from 2000 to 2008, and as a member of the Advisory Committee of the UN Human Rights Council from 2008 to 2012. Jean Ziegler has authored numerous works, is a lecturer, and is well known for this sentence: \"A child who dies from hunger is a murdered child.\"\n\nJean Ziegler was born on April 19, 1934 in Thun, Switzerland. His father was the president of the town’s court and a reserve artillery colonel.\n\nZiegler married and had one son. He studied at the universities of Bern and Geneva and has doctorates in Law and Sociology. He also earned his barrister brevet at the bar association of Geneva. In 1952, he met Abbé Pierre in Paris, and became the first director of the Emmaus charitable community of Geneva. In 1964, Ziegler admired the Cuban rebels, and was Che Guevara's chauffeur in Geneva.\n\nZiegler was professor at the University of Grenoble and until 2002 at the University of Geneva and at the Graduate Institute of Development Studies, where he taught sociology. He also held the position of associate professor at the Sorbonne in Paris.\n\nIn 1963 Jean Ziegler was elected at the municipal council of Geneva as a social democrat. From 1967 to 1983 and from 1987 to 1999 he held a seat at the Swiss National Council. While there he was the president of the “Swiss-Third World” parliamentary group. He joined the commissions for foreign affairs, science and international trade.\n\nNominated by Switzerland, he was the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food from 2000 to 2008. Following Ziegler's election, the Swiss government stated that it \"attaches great importance to human rights and is pleased that a Swiss candidate will be able to contribute his expertise to the committee.\" As one of the 18 initial members of the Advisory Committee to the United Nations Human Rights Council who were elected on 26 March 2008, Jean Ziegler served a one-year term receiving forty of forty-seven votes in 2008 to finish first in a field of seven candidates. He concluded his second term 30 September 2012, but was reelected on 26 September 2013 with a term lasting until September 30, 2016. He is also a member of the advisory board of the non-profit organization Business Crime Control which targets white-collar crime.\n\nJean Ziegler was made knight (chevalier) of the French Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 1994. He has an honorary degree at the University of Mons in Belgium. He was awarded the Medal of the Presidency of the Italian Republic. The Republic of Cape Verde awarded him the National Order of Amílcar Cabral, first degree. He received the Gaddafi Human Rights Prize in 2002.\n\nOn January 17, 2009 he received an honorary degree from the University of Paris VIII. He is a member of the Advisory Board of the left-wing South East European magazine \"Novi Plamen\" In Austria Jean Ziegler was awarded with the \"Federal State Salzburg prize for future research\" by Federal State Salzburg Governor Gabi Burgstaller on 20 November 2008.\n\nHe was honored with ethecon's 2012 \"Blue Planet Award\" for his \"outstanding efforts towards humanitarian ethics\".\n\nAs a United Nations official, Ziegler has dealt with both general worldwide issues such as the use of biofuels, as well as country-specific issues. Regarding the former, Ziegler has criticised the uptake of biofuels because their production can come at the expense of growing food. On 26 October 2007 Ziegler told a news conference at the UN that \"it's a crime against humanity to convert agricultural productive soil into soil ... which will be burned into biofuel... What has to be stopped is ... the growing catastrophe of the massacre (by) hunger in the world.\"\nIn 1997, Ziegler alleged that Swiss banking officials were lying to protect the assets of Mobutu Sese Seko, former President of Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo). Ziegler said, \"This is grotesque... This is a financial empire and it is here in Switzerland.\" In 1994, he had already proposed to the Swiss parliament to confiscate the finances of Mobutu and give it back to the country after the end of Mobutu's dictatorship, but his proposal was declined.\n\nHe also criticized the Swiss banks in connection with the dormant accounts scandal. In 1998, he testified before Senator Alfonse D'Amato's hearing on the assets of Holocaust victims by the US Senate Banking Committee, against the Swiss banks and in support of the claims of the World Jewish Congress. His book \"The Swiss, the Gold and the Dead: How Swiss Bankers Helped Finance the Nazi War Machine\" was published in America in 1998. \n\nA prize foundation fund in the name of Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi was established in Geneva in 1989, and Nelson Mandela was selected the first recipient of the fund's Gaddafi International Human Rights Prize. Some newspaper accounts have identified Ziegler as one of the panel members who administered the fund in 1989. He has denied launching the award, however, and has said that he was merely \"consulted.\" Although Libya funded the award, its winners were to be chosen by the Swiss foundation, and Ziegler said that \"ironclad guarantees\" had been established to ensure that \"Tripoli's influence would not be felt.\"\n\nGaddafi Prize officials announced thirteen disparate winners in 2002, including Ziegler and the French philosopher and convicted Holocaust denier Roger Garaudy. \"Agence France-Press\" noted the irony of Ziegler, who had worked for Holocaust reparations in Switzerland, sharing the award with Garaudy. Ziegler turned down the prize, saying that he \"could not accept an award or distinction from any country because of my responsibilities at the United Nations.\"\n\nZiegler's alleged associations with the Gaddafi Prize has been the subject of criticism. Alan Johnson, writing for \"The Guardian\" online in 2008, criticized Ziegler for \"launching\" the prize four months after the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 (which many believe to have been the work of Libyan agents). Joshua Muravchik from the American Enterprise Institute also criticized his involvement with the award in a 2006 article for the \"Weekly Standard\".\n\nOn March 25, 2011, the Swiss television channel Schweizer Fernsehen ran a report on Ziegler's alleged associations with Gaddafi. The piece included criticism of Ziegler from Pierre Weiss, a sociologist and member of the Swiss Liberal Party. Ziegler, for his part, said that he was never a friend of Gaddafi and repeated his claim that he never oversaw the Human Rights Prize.\n\nThe following month, the Salzburg Music Festival withdrew an invitation to Ziegler to speak at the event's opening, citing his alleged links to Gaddafi. In the same period, Ziegler said that he now regarded Gaddafi as \"completely mad\" and as a psychopath and murderer.\n\nIn 1996, Ziegler signed a letter of support for Roger Garaudy. He later clarified that he intended to express \"his respect for Garaudy's battle against all fundamentalisms — and Muslim fundamentalism, in particular,\" and that he \"most firmly condemned all revisionist activity or ideas whose purpose is to deny or to minimize the genocide of the Jewish people by the Nazis.\"\n\nDuring the Ethiopian famine of the mid-1980s, Ziegler described the world as an \"immense extermination camp\", wherein 40,000 people died of hunger every day. He blamed this on an economic system that allowed the rich to become richer, and the poor to become poorer.\n\nSome of Ziegler's critics have accused him of working as an adviser to Ethiopian dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam in the drafting of Ethiopia's 1986 constitution, which established the country as a one-party state.\n\nZiegler defended the principle of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's land reforms in 2002, saying that Mugabe had \"history and morality on his side\". He described agrarian reforms as \"an absolute necessity\" in Zimbabwe and South Africa, and was quoted as saying:\n\nHe added that Mugabe's land reforms were being undertaken \"in a despicable context\", however, and said that agrarian reform under democratic conditions would bring \"equitable distribution of the property titles to rural communities\". He also clarified that he was speaking in a personal context, and not as a representative of the United Nations.\n\nDuring the buildup to the 1990 Gulf War, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein took several Swiss nationals in Iraq as hostages. Ziegler was involved in efforts to release them, initially working with former Algerian President Ahmed Ben Bella and later traveling to Baghdad himself as part of an independent delegation that managed to secure the release of some hostages. The Swiss government did not endorse this effort, and Ziegler argued that his delegation could have freed all of the hostages had the government agreed to allow the export to Iraq of medicines and powdered milk for children.\n\nPrior to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Ziegler proposed that Saddam Hussein be granted a Swiss exile to prevent war from breaking out. The Swiss government did not take up this proposal. After the 2003 invasion, Ziegler accused British and American forces of using water and food as weapons of war in Iraqi cities under attack by insurgents, to encourage civilians to flee.\n\nZiegler has praised Cuba, stating in November 2007 that it is a world model for how it provides its people with food and praised it for cooperating with the United Nations and agreeing to allow him to report on the country's respect for the \"right to food.\" Regarding a visit he made to Cuba, Ziegler stated: \"We cannot say that the right to food is totally respected in Cuba, but we have not seen a single malnourished person.\" Ziegler's trip to Cuba was the first in several years by a U.N. rights rapporteur, and his invitation to Havana followed a decision by the U.N. Human Rights Council to stop scrutinizing Cuban human rights abuses.\n\nAccording to \"The Weekly Standard\", Ziegler believes that the United States is an 'imperialist dictatorship' that is guilty, among other atrocities, of 'genocide' against the people of Cuba by means of its trade embargo.\"\n\nZiegler criticized Israel's conduct in the 2006 Lebanon War, stating that the International Criminal Court should investigate whether Israel is guilty of war crimes for a bombing campaign in Lebanon that blocked access to food and water. Specifically, Ziegler stated that \"The government of Israel should be held responsible under international law for the violations of the right to food of the Lebanese civilian population.\"\n\nItzhak Levanon, Israel's ambassador to the UN responded that \"In all of his reports, Mr. Ziegler always transgresses the limits of his mandate. The latest report - which touches upon several external issues - is no exception.\" Israel also noted that Ziegler's report focused only on the impact of Israeli bombing in Lebanon and did not cover the effects of Hezbollah rocket fire on northern Israel.\"\n\nZiegler, according to a pro-Palestinian website, stated on television that \"the Israeli occupation is a colonial regime and an illegal military occupation from the UN's point of view, it continues to annex more Palestinian lands; and thus the Israeli occupation is the worst in the history of colonialism.\"\n\nIn 2005, Ziegler likened Gaza to \"an immense concentration camp\", adding that he was glad the \"guards\" were about to leave (this was a reference to Israel's unilateral disengagement plan under Ariel Sharon's government). Ziegler later rejected as \"absurd and patently false\" the suggestion that he had compared Israelis to Nazis, saying that he was actually quoting an Israeli scholar when he made the remark.\n\nZiegler had several interactions with the government of North Korea while serving as the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food. In 2001, he reported that some of the one million tonnes of aid provided by the World Food Programme had been taken by the army, the secret services and the government. In April 2004, a writer in the \"Asian Wall Street Journal\" called on North Korea to accept Ziegler's repeated requests for a visit, and to help establish an accountable network for food aid. Later in the same year, Ziegler said that five of his requests to visit North Korea had been turned down by officials in Pyongyang.\n\nZiegler's appointment as U.N. Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food was criticized by \"The Weekly Standard\", on the grounds that Ziegler is a sociologist by training and had no particular expertise on food or agriculture.\n\nZiegler's appointment was also criticized by an independent group of political figures including Irwin Cotler and Per Ahlmark. This group criticized Ziegler for his associations with figures such as Mengistu Haile Mariam and Robert Mugabe, his involvement with the Gaddafi Prize, and his support for Roger Garaudy. Their letter opposing Ziegler was issued by the group UN Watch.\n\nIn March 2008, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Cuban-American and the ranking Republican on the U.S. House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee, sharply criticized Ziegler's appointment as an advisor to the UN Human Rights Council. Ros-Lehtinen's stated:\n\nRos-Lehtinen also accused Ziegler of ignoring various famine emergencies using \"his platform to consistently attack America and Israel\".\n\nThe American Jewish Committee (AJC) opposed Ziegler's bid for re-election to the UN Human Rights Office in 2009. The AJC cited his past support for Roger Garaudy and his criticisms of Israel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14866814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14866814", "title": "Jonah House", "text": "Jonah House\n\nJonah House is a faith-based community centered on the concept of \"Nonviolence, resistance and community\". Founded in 1973 by a group that included Philip Berrigan, a Catholic priest, and Elizabeth McAlister, formerly a Catholic nun, Jonah House has grown to be situated on a area of land in Baltimore, Maryland encompassing St. Peter's Cemetery, caring for the grounds.\n\n\"Jonah House\" has been specifically regarded as a prime example of a Catholic Worker House of Resistance.\n\nMuch of the non-violent resistance direct actions undertaken by Jonah House have taken the form of Plowshares actions. Additionally non-violence is practiced in the community both as a way of thought and action. Education of the injustice present in violence is contemplated.\n\nJonah House donates food and clothes to persons in need.\n\nJonah House is part of a network of individuals and communities along the east coast that calls itself \"The Atlantic Life Community\".\n\nThe Pacific Life Community is a similar organization encompassing the west coast of the United States of America, Pacific Islands and East Asia.\n\nJonah House is also a sister community with Dorothy Day Catholic Worker House (in D.C) Viva House Catholic Worker, and The P. Francis Murphy Justice/Peace Initiative.\n\n\n\nBut the people of Jonah House, part of the Catholic Worker movement founded by Dorothy Day more than 72 years ago, have done much more than that. They've served years in prison for nonviolent acts of civil disobedience. Almost every arrest, every sentence, has come for actions seeking to abolish nuclear weapons.\n"}
{"id": "22288665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22288665", "title": "Jürgen Osterhammel", "text": "Jürgen Osterhammel\n\nJürgen Osterhammel (born 1952 in Wipperfürth, North Rhine-Westphalia) is a German historian.\n\nOsterhammel started his academic career as a research fee student at the London School of Economics in 1976/77 and studied and worked there under Professor Ian Nish. In 1980 he obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Kassel (Germany) in modern history. Two years later he started as a fellow at the German Historical Institute in London. Between 1986 and 1990 he was senior lecturer in political science at the University of Freiburg (Germany). He then worked for seven years as professor of modern history at the FernUniversität Hagen, a distance-learning university and the university with the highest enrollment in Germany. He has also worked as a professor of modern history at the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva before taking up the same position in the University of Konstanz (Germany) in 1999. In 2001-2002 he was a fellow at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study in the Humanities and Social Sciences. In 2014 he was elected a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy.\n\nIn 2010 Jürgen Osterhammel received the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize a program of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation) for \"exceptional scientists and academics for their outstanding achievements in the field of research.\"\n\nHe has been recipient of the Pour le Mérite for Sciences and Arts in 2017.\n\nIn 2018 he received the Balzan Prize for Global History \"For his fundamental contribution to studies in global history and the definition of the discipline. For his method, which combines the rigour of empirical research while opening onto wide perspectives in an admirably balanced way, both through comparison and through the study of interconnected histories. For his elegant, fascinating style of writing.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29626816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29626816", "title": "Karuna Center for Peacebuilding", "text": "Karuna Center for Peacebuilding\n\nKaruna Center for Peacebuilding (KCP) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization based in Amherst, Massachusetts. The stated mission of KCP is to empower people divided by conflict to develop mutual understanding and to create sustainable peace. The organization was named for the Sanskrit word for compassion. The organizations efforts in facilitating \"post-conflict reconciliation\" has led to active programs in more than 30 countries. They have co-implemented programs with the United States Agency for International Development, United States Department of State, United States Institute of Peace, and Fund for Peace, among others.\n\nKCP provides educational training programs in conflict transformation and inter-communal dialogue in communities experiencing deeply rooted conflict. With a focus on relational peacebuilding, KCP facilitators aim to create a context in which shattered communal relations can be healed and programs fostering coexistence can be established and tested.\n\nKCP was founded in 1994 by Dr. Paula Green, who came to the field of peacebuilding with a background in intergroup relations, counseling psychology, Buddhist meditation, and nonviolent activism. Dr. Green is a professor Emeritus at the School for International Training Graduate Institute, as well as the founder of the graduate certificate program, Conflict Transformation Across Culture (CONTACT) located on the SIT Vermont campus and in South Asia. She was joined in this work in 2002 by Olivia Stokes Dreier, who became Executive Director of KCP on June 1, 2010.\n\nKCP works internationally with in-country partners to lead peacebuilding trainings and dialogue workshops. Since 1994, KCP staff has led programs in conflict transformation in 26 countries in the Middle East, Europe, Asia, Africa and America. Past areas of work have included training members of Nepal’s Constituent Assembly in collaboration and negotiation skills and engaging community-based peace committees in the Casamance region of Senegal. Current areas of work include workshops for women leaders in Sudan and South Sudan in partnership with the Hunt Alternatives Fund, and a multi-year program in Northeast Sri Lanka, in partnership with the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement, that engages 80 Buddhist, Muslim, Hindu and Christian leaders in joint community projects and reconciliation following the Sri Lankan Civil War.\n\nKCP’s first long-term project took place in Bosnia from 1997-2002, first working with women community leaders and then with educators from Sanski Most and Prijedor in Northern Bosnia, most of whom were survivors of Prijedor concentration camps which were discovered in 1993 by reporter Roy Gutman. In May 1997, KCP received funding for a Sanski Most training program focused on survivors of sexual abuse, incarceration, and war-based trauma. The program was co-implemented with the Women’s Association of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Three years after the program's initiation, in May 2000, KCP funding to implement Project DIACOM, a dialogue program in the Sanski Most and Prijedor. The program was aimed towards “inter-ethnic tolerance and understanding, conflict transformation, and peacebuilding” through educators. This shift collected support from the Seattle-based NGO, Foundation for Community Encouragement.\n\nProject DIACOM was named to signify dialogues and community building in which erstwhile antagonists are led to mend their mutual suspicions and to begin working together. Alumni of this project later developed their own training programs for expanding understanding, trust, and reconciliation between Bosnian Muslims and Serbs, leading to the start of the Center for Peacebuilding in Sanski Most, Bosnia-Herzegovina.\n\nWest Africa\n\n\nEast Africa\n\n\nCentral Africa\n\n\nSouth Asia and Southeast Asia\n\n\nNorth America\n\n\nKaruna Center for Peacebuilding has collaborated with the SIT Graduate Institute in Brattleboro, Vermont to teach courses in CONTACT (Conflict Transformation Across Cultures), a program that Dr. Paula Green founded in 1997 to provide intensive training and graduate certification in peacebuilding. Karuna Center for Peacebuilding is a member of the Alliance for Peacebuilding.\n"}
{"id": "44667806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44667806", "title": "Kielsen I Cabinet", "text": "Kielsen I Cabinet\n\nThe First Cabinet of Kim Kielsen is the current government of the Greenland. It was appointed on 10 December 2014 with Kim Kielsen from Forward (Siumut) as Prime Minister, making a coalition between Forward (Siumut), Democrats (Demokraatit) and Solidarity (Atassut). It is a majority government and is right and left winged government.\n\nThe Social Democratic Siumut has 5 ministers including the Prime Minister. The Social liberal Democrats has 2 ministers. The Liberalistic Solidarity has 2 ministers.\n\nParty breakdown of cabinet ministers:\n"}
{"id": "1825239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825239", "title": "King's Commissioner", "text": "King's Commissioner\n\nThe King’s Commissioner (, abbreviated to \"CvdK\") is the head of a province in the Netherlands. The officeholder chairs of both the States-Provincial (directly elected provincial legislature) and the Provincial-Executive (executive branch), but has a right to vote only in the latter. When the reigning monarch is a female, the office is Queen's Commissioner (\"Commissaris van de Koningin\"). As there are twelve provinces in the Netherlands, there are twelve King's Commissioners.\n\nThere are two levels of local government in the Netherlands: the provinces and the municipalities. The twelve provinces form the tier of administration between central government and the municipalities. The three tiers are organised in largely the same way, with a directly elected legislature, which in turn chooses the executive branch, headed by an appointed chairman. At the national and municipal levels, these are the King and the Mayor; at the provincial level it is the King's Commissioner.\n\nThe King’s Commissioner is not elected by the residents of the province, but appointed by the Dutch Crown (the ministers, presided over by the monarch), for a term of six years, renewable. The King’s Commissioner can be dismissed only by the Dutch Crown. When a vacancy arises, the provincial council gives the Minister of the Interior a profile of the kind of candidate it would like to see in the job. Although all King’s Commissioners are prominent members of one or another of the major national political parties, they are expected to be politically impartial while they are in office.\n\nThe King's Commissioners play a role within the provincial administration and are the official representatives of central government in the provinces. They coordinate disaster management and prevention and pay regular official visits to the municipalities in their region.\n\nThe King's Commissioners play an important part in the appointment of municipal mayors. When a vacancy arises, the King's Commissioner first asks the municipal council for its views as to a successor, then writes to the Minister of the Interior, recommending a candidate. Since the King's Commissioners are both the chairs and full members of the provincial executives, they may include some of the executive's tasks in their portfolio. They also oversee the official apparatus and any provincial utilities and represent the province in its dealings with business.\n\nIn the Dutch province of Limburg, the King’s Commissioner is usually informally called \"Gouverneur\" (\"governor\"), as in Belgium. Similarly, the \"Provinciehuis\" (\"Province Hall\") at Maastricht is called \"Gouvernement\" (\"Governor’s Residence\"). This local custom arose from the particular status of the province in the nineteenth century. The official name of the office is currently the same as in the other provinces.\n\n"}
{"id": "9066788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9066788", "title": "Liberal autocracy", "text": "Liberal autocracy\n\nA liberal autocracy is a non-democratic government that follows the principles of liberalism. Until the twentieth century, \"most countries in Western Europe were liberal autocracies, or at best, semi-democracies.\" One example of a \"classic liberal autocracy\" was the Austro-Hungarian Empire. According to Fareed Zakaria, a more recent example is Hong Kong until July 1, 1997, which was ruled by the British Crown. He says that until 1991 \"it had never held a meaningful election, but its government epitomized constitutional liberalism, protecting its citizens' basic rights and administering a fair court system and bureaucracy.\" F.A. Hayek contended that the regime of Augusto Pinochet in Chile was also a liberal autocracy, claiming that he had \"not been able to find a single person even in much maligned Chile who did not agree that personal freedom was much greater under Pinochet than it had been under Allende.\" However, the historical record and many accounts by other observers indicate otherwise, citing the human rights abuses and suppression of civil society that occurred during Pinochet's rule.\n\nThe existence of real liberties in many of these autocracies is very questionable. Nineteenth century autocracies often abolished feudal institutions like serfdom, guilds, privileges for the nobility, and inequality before the law. However, freedom of speech and freedom of association were at best limited. As such, liberal autocracy often preceded various forms of electoral democracy in the evolution of these nations, being much more open than feudal monarchies but less free than modern liberal democracies.\n\nHong Kong is arguably a special case, where during the latter stages of British colonial rule there was considerable freedom of speech and freedom of association, but also the common knowledge that China would not allow an independent state with free elections.\n\nIt was also suggested that since 2005 Egypt has been leaning towards liberal autocracy\n\n"}
{"id": "52048538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52048538", "title": "Lifeguard (military)", "text": "Lifeguard (military)\n\nIn the Kingdom of France, the Garde du Corps was established (with reference to the \"\") in 1440. It was abolished after the French Revolution, re-established in 1815, and finally dissolved in 1830. In addition, Napoleon III set up the Cent-gardes for his own protection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58899228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58899228", "title": "Magyaron", "text": "Magyaron\n\nMagyaron () — the disparaged name of the Transcarpathian ethno-cultural group, usually referred to clergy and intelligentsia, which has a candid Hungarian orientation, renounced its own language, culture, religion, promotes Magyarization of Ukrainian population. The Magyarons consider Ukrainians of Carpathian Ruthenia separate «Rusyns» nation and in 1918–1940th years defended the idea of joining to Hungary. The children of Magyarons have already considered themselves Magyar, not Ukrainians. Thus, children of madyaron were educated in the Hungarian spirit, belonged to the Magyar chauvinistic youth organization «Levente» and considered themselves Hungarians.\n\nThe term \"Magyaron\" and \"Magyaronian\" originated in the 19th century — the first half of the 20th century in Ruthenian (Ukrainian) environments, meant national treason and was used to denote smeared ones Ruthenians (Ukrainians).\n\nThe main factor of the emergence of the Magyarons was Magyarization, which was conducted by the Hungarian authorities. In the Hungarian kingdom, such living conditions and a psychological climate for national minorities were created which forced the latter, often contrary to personal principles and beliefs, to adapt to new living conditions by renouncing their own national culture, language, political, religious, and other views. In the Hungarian society, which has a high level of intolerance towards non-Magyar nationalities, only renunciation of its nationality, the recognition of itself as a Magyar and \"patriotic\" activity, as a rule, made it possible to obtain education, maintain or occupy a high position and advance on a career ladder, or simply have means of subsistence. Not only the chauvinistic policy of the Hungarian authorities, but also the negative features of the mentality and the behavior of the Hungarians themselves, who at everyday level in communicating with the Ukrainians constantly tried to show their superiority, emphasize the simple-mindedness, ignorance of Transcarpathians, called them \"not only\", but also \"savage Rushniaks\", \"stupid Rusyns\", \"Smelly Ruthens\", \"pigs\", and even did not consider people as a whole. The supreme attitude of the Magyars was characteristic not only to Ukrainians, but also to other Slavic peoples, as well as Germans. The famous Transcarpathian Magyaron Alexander Dukhnovich wrote: \n\nThe children of the Magyarons usually became also the Magyarons. So, the sons of Ivan Kurtyak studied in the Magyar high school in Komárom (now Komárno, Slovakia), were educated in the Hungarian spirit and belonged to the Magyar chauvinistic youth organization «Levente». One of the priests in Laborca, said: \"I am only Rusyn in the church, but leaving the church – Magyar».\n\nIn time of Ukrainian Revolution the Magyarons conducted activities against the accession of Transcarpathia to West Ukrainian People's Republic.\n\nDuring World War II Magyarons worked closely with the Hungarian government, attacked the Sichovyks, participated in torture and shootings of soldiers of «Carpathian Sich».\n\nThe Magyarons are also referred to as the undersigned Slovaks, who advocate the return to Hungary of at least the eastern part of Slovakia. Local Magyarons consider themselves separate from the Slovaks by the people — Sloviaks. Back in the 19th century, Sloviak activists worked on the codification of mountains East-Slovak dialects into a separate literary language. The inventors of the Sloviaks maintained loyalty to Budapest and did not support the pan-Slavic fascinations of other Slovak figures.\n\nOn November 9, 1918 in Ungvár (now Uzhgorod, Ukraine) the \"Ugro-Rusyn People's Council\" was formed by the Magyarons. (Council of Ruthenians of Hungary), headed by the canon of the Mukachevo Greek Catholic Diocese Simeon Sabov (1863–1929). The Ugric-Rutheian People's Council adopted the \"Memorandum,\" in which it stated that the Ugric-Rutheian people join their homeland-Hungary and advocate for the integrity of its territory.\n\nThe main Magyarons party in Transcarpathia supported by Hungary was «», founded in 1924 by the Magyaron . Among the people, this party was called \"Kurtyakiv\", and its followers – kurtyakivtsi. After the death of its founder 1933, the leadership of the party was taken by the editor of the party newspaper «» — .\n\nAmong the Magyarons was , , , , , , and others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1108867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108867", "title": "Meena Keshwar Kamal", "text": "Meena Keshwar Kamal\n\nMeena Keshwar Kamal (Pashto/; February 27, 1956 – February 4, 1987), commonly known as Meena, was an Afghan revolutionary political activist, feminist, women's rights activist and founder of Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan (RAWA), who was assassinated in 1987.\n\nIn 1977, when she was a student at Kabul University, she founded Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan (RAWA), an organization formed to promote equality and education for women and continues to \"give voice to the deprived and silenced women of Afghanistan\". Even after the Saur Revolution there was no vast changes of women's deprivation in Afghanistan. In 1979 she campaigned against DRA, and organized meetings in schools to mobilize support against it, and in 1981, she launched a bilingual feminist magazine, \"Payam-e-Zan\" (Women's Message). She also founded Watan Schools to aid refugee children and their mothers, offering both hospitalization and the teaching of practical skills.\n\nAt the end of 1981, by invitation of the French Government Meena represented the Afghan resistance movement at the French Socialist Party Congress. The Soviet delegation at the Congress, headed by Boris Ponamaryev, left the hall as participants cheered when Meena started waving a victory sign.\nKamal was married to Afghanistan Liberation Organization leader Faiz Ahmad, who was murdered by agents of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar on November 12, 1986. They had three children, whose whereabouts are unknown.\n\nKamal was assassinated in Quetta, Pakistan on February 4, 1987. Reports vary as to who the assassins were, but are believed to have been agents of the Afghan Intelligence Service KHAD, the Afghan secret police, or of fundamentalist Mujahideen leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.\n\nIn a special issue of the Time Magazine on November 13, 2006, included Meena among \"60 Asian Heroes\" and wrote that \"Although she was only 30 when she died, Meena had already planted the seeds of an Afghan women's rights movement based on the power of knowledge.\" \n\nRAWA says of her \"Meena gave 12 years of her short but brilliant life to struggle for her homeland and her people. She had a strong belief that despite the darkness of illiteracy, ignorance of fundamentalism, and corruption and decadence of sell outs imposed on our women under the name of freedom and equality, finally that half of population will be awaken and cross the path towards freedom, democracy and women's rights. The enemy was rightly shivering with fear by the love and respect that Meena was creating within the hearts of our people. They knew that within the fire of her fights all the enemies of freedom, democracy and women would be turned to ashes.\"\n\nAn enduring quote from Meena states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4646954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4646954", "title": "Ministry of Economy and Finance (South Korea)", "text": "Ministry of Economy and Finance (South Korea)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Finance (abbreviated to MOEF) oversees the financial policies of the South Korean government. It publishes a monthly report on the national economy, known as the \"Green Book.\" The current minister is Kim Dong-yeon. The headquarters is in the Sejong Government Complex in Sejong City.\n\nMOEF has enforcement functions as well. It oversees the National Tax Tribunal and the Financial Intelligence Unit.\n\nThe ministry was formed in 1994 through the merger of the old Economic Planning Board (est. 1961) and Ministry of Finance (est. 1948).\n\n1948\n\nThree years after gaining independence from Japan, the Korean government was set up and it established the Ministry of Finance and the Economic Planning Board. The Ministry of Finance took charge of designing tax, financial and monetary policies as well as managing state-owned property and exchange rates. On the other hand, the Economic Planning Board was empowered in 1961 and assumed an important mandate of designing 5 year economic development plans in addition to its usual functions such as managing the government's budget and securing foreign loans. \n\n1994\nAs the need arose for an integrated approach to implement the government's functions on economic affairs in an efficient and coherent way, the Economic Planning Board and the Ministry of Finance was merged into the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE). \n\n1998\nIn a response to the financial crisis, the MOFE's functions were separated and transferred to other Ministries so as to mitigate the overconcentration of decision-making authority by MOFE. Its budgetary authority was transferred to the National Budget Administration, its financial supervision authority to the Financial Supervisory Commission, and its trade negotiating authority to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. \n\n1999\n\nThe Planning and Budget Commission and the National Budget Administration was merged into the Ministry of Planning and Budget (MPB). \n\n2008\nThe Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) and the Ministry of Planning and Budget (MPB) was again merged into the Ministry of Strategy and Finance (MOSF) in order to put under one roof fiscal policy functions and inter-ministerial policy coordination. On the other hand, the MOFE's authority on financial policies regarding the financial market was transferred to the Financial Services Commission. In 2018, the ministry changed its official English name to the Ministry of Economy and Finance.\n\nCurrently this Ministry is in Sejong Government Complex in Sejong City. Previously the office had its headquarters in the Government Complex Gwacheon, in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi Province.\n\n1. Planning and coordination of the mid- to long-term socio-economic development goals and setting economic policy direction on an annual basis\n\n2. Distributing resources effectively and assessing the effectiveness of budget execution\n\n3. Planning/reforming Korea's tax policy and system\n\n4. Planning and management of policies for treasury, government properties, government accounting and the national debt\n\n5. Coordination of policies for foreign currency transactions and international finance\n\n6. Enhancement of international cooperation and promotion of inter-Korean economic exchanges and cooperation\n\n7. Management and monitoring of public institutions' operation\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Finance was accused of releasing a comprehensive review on welfare-related campaign promises of each political parties before the 2012 election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59026660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59026660", "title": "Minusinsk Uprising", "text": "Minusinsk Uprising\n\nThe Minusinsk Uprising was a peasant uprising in November 1918 around Minusinsk in the Yenisei Province against the policy of extortion, forcible mobilization into the Siberian Army and repression by the White Guards. \n\nThe rebellion began on November 9, 1918 with the defeat of a punitive White detachment in the village of Dubenskoe. On November 11, the rebels captured the Cossack village of Karace. In mid-November they created a unified leadership and launched an attack on Minusinsk to defeat the punitive detachment of General Shilnikov there and establish Soviet power. On November 19, 7 detachments (about 10.000 people) under command of the Chief of the General Staff, V. Oshchepkov (a Corporal in the Tsarist army), attacked Minusinsk from three sides. However, the detachment of Shilnikov (about 3.000 soldiers) managed to repulse the persistent attacks of the rebels between 19 – 21 of November. On November 27, the uprising was suppressed, and fights against individual detachments lasted until December 7.\n\nThe defeat of the rebellion was due to poor armament (no artillery, only 2,000 rifles and a small number of cartridges) and inconsistent actions by the rebel detachments. \nThe White military field court dealt brutally with the rebels: 87 people were shot, 50 forced into servitude, about 200 sentenced to imprisonment, and some 300 to a large fine. The main mass of surviving rebels went to the woods and continued a guerrilla struggle from there.\n\n"}
{"id": "50379544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50379544", "title": "National Agency for Combating Terrorism", "text": "National Agency for Combating Terrorism\n\nThe National Agency for Combating Terrorism (Indonesian: Badan Nasional Penanggulangan Terorisme abbreviated as BNPT) is the Indonesian agency that works to prevent terrorism. BNPT is headed by a chief who is responsible to the President. Presidential Regulation in 2012 elevated the post of BNPT Chief to ministerial level.\n\nThe predecessor of this agency was Combating Terrorism Coordinating Desk (Indonesian: Desk Koordinasi Pemberantasan Terorisme abbreviated as DKPT)\n\nBNPT has the task:\n\nBNPT The organizational structure consists of:\n\n"}
{"id": "22368401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22368401", "title": "Order, Law and Justice", "text": "Order, Law and Justice\n\nOrder, Law and Justice (, \"Red, zakonnost i spravedlivost\"), abbreviated to RZS, was a conservative political party in Bulgaria. Its main focus is on fighting crime and corruption. It won the minimum ten seats in the National Assembly at the 2009 election, making it the smallest of the six parties in the legislature. Later some of the deputies left the parliamentary group and it broke the minimum of ten, which inevitably made all parliamentary representatives of the party independent deputies.\n\nIt is led by Yane Yanev, who has frequently revealed classified documents backing up his claims of corruption. The party is close to the British Conservative Party.\n\nThe logo of Order, Law and Justice is a blue and orange checkerboard pattern.\n\nThe party was founded by renaming and reforming the National Association - Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union (NS-BZNS), which had been part of the United Democratic Forces, decided on the fourth congress of the NS-BZNS in the end of 2005. Its main goal is fighting corruption. In the 2007 European election, RZS won only 0.5% of the vote. By the time of the 2009 election, this had increased to 4.7%, with RZS claiming that only electoral fraud had prevented it from receiving 10%, which would have given it two seats.\n\nA month later, RZS took part in elections to the National Assembly. Its parliamentary ticket was headed by Atanas Semov, a law professor at the University of Sofia. Its platform called for the formation of a stable center-right coalition that would exclude the Bulgarian Socialist Party, a proactive campaign against political corruption, compulsory education until age 16, greater efforts to fight illiteracy, and the rejection of ethnic nationalism in politics.\n\nThe election saw RZS win 4.13% of the vote: just clearing the 4% threshold and entitling it to ten seats. The party supported the new centre-right government under Boyko Borisov, but refused to sign an official declaration of support, after pressure from the European Conservatives and Reformists over the involvement of Attack. One of RZS's MPs, Mario Tagarinski, left the party on 9 December 2009, pushing the party below the minimum of ten MPs required to form an official parliamentary group. Another MP, Dimitar Choukarski, left on 11 March 2010, reducing it further to eight MPs.\n\nThe party nominated Atanas Semov for president during the 2011 presidential election. He finished seventh with only 1.84% of the popular vote.\n\nIn the 2013 parliamentary election the party won only 1.67% of the popular vote and failed to win a seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "5833225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5833225", "title": "Pelican Publishing Company", "text": "Pelican Publishing Company\n\nPelican Publishing Company is a book publisher based in Gretna, a suburb of New Orleans. Formed in 1926, Pelican is the largest independent trade book publisher located in the U.S. South. Pelican publishes approximately 60 titles per year and maintains a backlist of over 2500 books. Most of its titles relate to Louisiana and Southern culture, cuisine, art, travel guides, history, children's books, and textbooks.\n\nFormed in 1926 by John McClure, Pelican was tied early in its history to William Faulkner and Stuart O. Landry. In 1970, Dr. Milburn E. Calhoun and family acquired Pelican. Calhoun served as company president and publisher prior to his death in 2012. Since his passing, daughter Kathleen Calhoun Nettleton has occupied his place as publisher and president.\n\nPelican Publishing Company has produced many noteworthy titles, including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1209554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209554", "title": "Russian oligarch", "text": "Russian oligarch\n\nRussian oligarchs (see the related term \"New Russians\") are business oligarchs of the former Soviet republics who rapidly accumulated wealth during the era of Russian privatization in the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the 1990s. The failing Soviet state left the ownership of state assets contested, which allowed for informal deals with former USSR officials (mostly in Russia and Ukraine) as a means to acquire state property. Historian Edward L. Keenan has drawn a comparison between the current Russian phenomenon of oligarchs and the system of powerful boyars which emerged in late-Medieval Muscovy.\n\nThe first modern Russian oligarchs emerged as business-sector entrepreneurs under Mikhail Gorbachev (General Secretary 1985–1991) during his period of market liberalization. The term \"oligarch\" derives from the Ancient Greek word ὀλιγάρχης (oligárkhēs), meaning literally \"one of few rulers\".\n\nBy the end of the Soviet era in 1991 and during Mikhail Gorbachev's perestroika, many Russian businessmen imported or smuggled goods such as personal computers and jeans into the country and sold them, often on the black market, for a hefty profit.\nDuring the 1990s, once Boris Yeltsin became President of Russia in 1991, the oligarchs emerged as well-connected entrepreneurs who started from nearly nothing and became rich through participation in the market via connections to the corrupt, but elected, government of Russia during the state's transition to a market-based economy. The so-called voucher-privatization program enabled a handful of young men to become billionaires, specifically by arbitraging the vast difference between old domestic prices for Russian commodities (e.g. gas, oil) and the prices prevailing on the world market. Because they stashed billions of dollars in private Swiss bank accounts rather than investing in the Russian economy, they were dubbed \"kleptocrats\". These oligarchs became extremely unpopular with the Russian public, and are commonly thought of as the cause of much of the turmoil that plagued the country following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. \"The Guardian\" described the oligarchs as \"about as popular with your average Russian as a man idly burning bundles of £50s outside an orphanage\".\n\nPost-Soviet business oligarchs include relatives or close associates of government officials, even government officials themselves, as well as criminal bosses often connected to the Russian government who achieved vast wealth by acquiring state assets very cheaply (or for free) during the privatization process controlled by the Yeltsin government of 1991–1999. Specific accusations of corruption are often leveled at Anatoly Chubais and Yegor Gaidar, two of the \"Young Reformers\" chiefly responsible for Russian privatization in the early 1990s. According to David Satter, author of \"Darkness at Dawn\", \"what drove the process was not the determination to create a system based on universal values but rather the will to introduce a system of private ownership, which, in the absence of law, opened the way for the criminal pursuit of money and power\". In some cases, outright criminal groups – in order to avoid attention – assign front-men to serve as executives and/or \"legal\" owners of the companies they control.\n\nAlthough the majority of oligarchs were not formally connected with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, there are allegations that they were promoted (at least initially) by the communist apparatchiks, with strong connections to Soviet power structures and access to the monetary funds of the Communist Party. Official Russian media usually depict oligarchs as the enemies of \"communist forces\". The latter is a stereotype that describes political power that wants to restore Soviet-style communism in Russia.\n\nDuring Yeltsin's presidency (1991–1999) oligarchs became increasingly influential in Russian politics; they played a significant role in financing the re-election of Yeltsin in 1996. With insider information about financial decisions of the government, oligarchs could easily increase their wealth even further. The 1998 Russian financial crisis hit some of the oligarchs hard, however, and those whose holdings were still based mainly on banking lost much of their fortunes.\n\nThe most influential and exposed oligarchs from the Yeltsin era include Boris Berezovsky, Mikhail Fridman, Vladimir Gusinsky, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Vladimir Potanin, Alexander Smolensky, Pyotr Aven, Vladimir Vinogradov and Vitaly Malkin. They formed what became known as Semibankirschina (or seven bankers), a small group of business moguls with a great influence on Boris Yeltsin and his political environment. Together they controlled from 50% to 70% of all Russian finances between 1996 and 2000.\n\nFridman, Potanin, Aven and Malkin are the only ones on the list to have retained their influence in the Putin era, which began in 1999. Khodorkovsky, Berezovsky and Gusinsky \"have been purged by the Kremlin\", according to \"The Guardian\" in 2008.\n\nThe most famous oligarchs of the Putin era include Roman Abramovich, Alexander Abramov, Oleg Deripaska, Mikhail Prokhorov, Alisher Usmanov, German Khan, Viktor Vekselberg, Leonid Mikhelson, Vagit Alekperov, Mikhail Fridman, Vladimir Potanin, Pyotr Aven, and Vitaly Malkin.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2004, Putin apparently engaged in a power-struggle with some oligarchs, reaching a \"grand bargain\" with them. This bargain allowed the oligarchs to maintain their powers, in exchange for their explicit support of – and alignment with – Putin's government. Many more business people have become oligarchs during Putin's time in power, and often due to personal relations with Putin, such as the rector of the institute where Putin obtained a degree in 1996, Vladimir Litvinenko, and Putin's childhood friend and judo-teacher Arkady Rotenberg. However, other analysts argue that the oligarchic structure has remained intact under Putin, with Putin devoting much of his time to mediating power-disputes between rival oligarchs. Some had been imprisoned, such as Mikhael Mirilashvili.\n\nDuring Putin's presidency, a number of oligarchs came under fire for various illegal activities, particularly tax evasion in the businesses they acquired. However, it is widely speculated and believed that the charges were also politically motivated per these tycoons falling out of favor with the Kremlin. Vladimir Gusinsky of MediaMost and Boris Berezovsky both avoided legal proceedings by leaving Russia, and the most prominent, Mikhail Khodorkovsky of Yukos oil, was arrested in October 2003 and sentenced to 9 years. This was subsequently extended to 14 years, and after Putin pardoned him, he was released on 20 December 2013. The term 'oligarch' has also been applied to technology investors such as Yuri Milner, although without involvement in Russian politics.\n\nDefenders of the out-of-favor oligarchs, often associated with Chubais's party—the Union of Right Forces, argue that the companies they acquired were not highly valued at the time because they still ran on Soviet principles, with non-existent stock-control, huge payrolls, no financial reporting and scant regard for profit. They turned the businesses around and made them profitable for shareholders. They obtain little sympathy from the Russian public due to resentment over the economic disparity they represent.\n\nAn economic study distinguishes 21 oligarchic groups as of 2003.\n\nIn 2004, \"Forbes\" listed 36 billionaires of Russian citizenship, with a note: \"this list includes businessmen of Russian citizenship who acquired the major share of their wealth privately, while not holding a governmental position\". In 2005, the number of billionaires dropped to 30, mostly because of the Yukos case, with Khodorkovsky dropping from #1 (US$15.2 billion) to #21 (US$2.0 billion).\n\nA 2013 report by Credit Suisse found that 35% of the wealth of Russia was owned by the wealthiest 110 individuals.\n\nBillionaire, philanthropist, art patron and former KGB agent Alexander Lebedev has criticized the oligarchs, saying \"I think material wealth for them is a highly emotional and spiritual thing. They spend a lot of money on their own personal consumption.\" Lebedev has also described them as \"a bunch of uncultured ignoramuses\", saying \"They don't read books. They don't have time. They don't go to [art] exhibitions. They think the only way to impress anyone is to buy a yacht.\" He also notes that the oligarchs have no interest in social injustice.\n\nIn 2018, the USA Treasury published a \"list of oligarchs\" per Pub.L. 115–44.\n\nA significant number of Russian oligarchs have bought homes in upmarket sections of London in the United Kingdom, which has been dubbed \"Moscow on Thames.\" Some, such as Eugene Shvidler, Alexander Knaster, Konstantin Kagalovsky and Abram Reznikov, are expatriates, having taken permanent residency in London. This community has led to journalists calling the city \"Londongrad\". Most own homes in both countries as well as property and have acquired controlling interests in major European companies. They commute on a regular basis between the EU and Russia; in many cases their families reside in London, with their children attending school there. In 2007 Abram Reznikov bought one of Spain's mega recycling companies, Alamak Espana Trade SL, while Roman Abramovich bought the English football club, Chelsea F.C., in 2003, spending record amounts on players' salaries.\n\nThe billionaire Moscow oligarch Mikhail Fridman, Russia's second richest man as of 2016, is currently restoring Athlone House in London as a primary residence, to be worth an estimated £130 million when restored.\n\nAccording to the financial news-agency Bloomberg L.P., Russia's wealthiest 25 individuals have collectively lost US $230 billion (£146 billion) since July 2008. The fall in the oligarchs' wealth relates closely to the meltdown in Russia's stock market, as by 2008 the RTS Index had lost 71% of its value due to the capital flight after the Russo-Georgian War of August 2008.\n\nBillionaires in Russia and Ukraine have been particularly hard-hit by lenders seeking repayment on balloon loans in order to shore up their own balance sheets. Many oligarchs took out generous loans from Russian banks, bought shares, and then took out more loans from western banks against the value of these shares. One of the first to get hit by the global downturn was Oleg Deripaska, Russia's richest man at the time, who had a net worth of US$28 billion in March 2008. As Deripaska borrowed money from western banks using shares in his companies as collateral, the collapse in share price forced him to sell holdings to satisfy the margin calls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "299125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299125", "title": "Salami slicing", "text": "Salami slicing\n\nSalami slicing refers to a series of many small actions, often performed by clandestine means, that as an accumulated whole produces a much larger action or result that would be difficult or unlawful to perform all at once. The term is typically used pejoratively. Although salami slicing is often used to carry out illegal activities, it is only a strategy for gaining an advantage over time by accumulating it in small increments, so it can be used in legal ways as well.\n\nAn example of salami slicing, also known as penny shaving, is the fraudulent practice of stealing money repeatedly in extremely small quantities, usually by taking advantage of rounding to the nearest cent (or other monetary unit) in financial transactions. It would be done by always rounding down, and putting the fractions of a cent into another account. The idea is to make the change small enough that any single transaction will go undetected.\n\nIn information security, a salami attack is a series of minor attacks that together results in a larger attack. Computers are ideally suited to automating this type of attack.\n\nIn politics, the term salami tactics has been used since the 1940s to refer to a divide and conquer process of threats and alliances used to overcome opposition.\n\nIn academia, salami slicing refers to the practice of creating several short publications out of material that could have, perhaps more validly, been published as a single article in a journal or review. (See also least publishable unit).\n\nIn January 1993, four executives of a rental-car franchise in Florida were charged with defrauding at least 47,000 customers using a salami technique.\n\nIn Los Angeles, in October 1998, district attorneys charged four men with fraud for allegedly installing computer chips in gasoline pumps that cheated consumers by overstating the amounts pumped.\n\nIn 2008, a man was arrested for fraudulently creating 58,000 accounts which he used to collect money through verification deposits from online brokerage firms a few cents at a time.\n\nOn 6 September 2018 British MP Tom Tugendhat, in a House of Commons speech, accused the Russian Government of salami slicing tactics:\n\nSalami slicing has played a key role in the plots of several films, including \"Superman III\", \"Hackers\", and \"Office Space\". In the latter title, the characters reference \"Superman III\" as inspiration.\n\nIn a 1972 episode of the TV series \"M*A*S*H\", Radar attempts to ship an entire Jeep home from Korea one piece at a time. Hawkeye commented that his mailman \"would have a retroactive hernia\" if he found out. The 1987 TV movie Perry Mason: The Case of the Murdered Madam features a murder trial involving the transfer of fractional cents by bank employees.\n\nJohnny Cash's \"One Piece at a Time\" has a similar plot to the \"M*A*S*H\" episode, but with a Cadillac having parts from model years 1949 through 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44399186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44399186", "title": "Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre", "text": "Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre\n\nThe Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre (SAIC) was set up in 2014, funded by the Scottish Funding Council, Scottish Enterprise, and Highlands and Islands Enterprise, with funding matched by the industry. It is hosted by the University of Stirling.\n\nThe role of SAIC is to transform the relationship between the aquaculture industry and research communities in Scotland. By developing connections and collaboration between them, it aims to promote innovative solutions to industry-defined issues and problems.\n\nAquaculture is a “pillar of rural industry in Scotland”, according to the Scottish Government, contributing as much as £1.4 billion turnover and 8,000 jobs to Scotland. Its industry and academic researchers also contribute to Scotland’s reputation abroad. The main activities within the sector are the farming / culturing of fish, molluscs, crustaceans and seaweed, much of them in the seas west of Scotland and north of Scotland.\n\nSalmon dominates the sector, and Scotland is the largest producer in the EU and the third largest globally. Current annual production of salmon in Scotland is about 160,000 tonnes, generating global retail sales of more than £1 billion. Fresh salmon is exported to over 50 countries, with the US the main export market for fresh whole salmon in 2013, followed by France.\n\nBy bringing together the industry and research communities, SAIC aims to foster further economic growth in the industry, introduce more sustainable practices, and prepare the industry for the future. To target its work most effectively, it has identified four Priority Innovation Actions for its first year of operations:\n• Improved sea lice control in Scottish aquaculture\n• Alternative sustainable feeds for finfish\n• Rapid detection methods for viral pathogens and diseases\n• Development of secure health-certified Scottish mollusc spat production systems.\n\nAll these areas have been identified by the industry, its customers and communities as the most pressing areas requiring innovation and collaboration.\n\nScotland and its rural communities could benefit greatly from action in these areas. It is estimated that each additional 10,000 tonnes of salmon creates an additional £96 million for the Scottish economy, of which over £43 million is at the farm gate.\n\nThe Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre was launched by the Scottish Government’s Minister for Environment and Climate Change, Paul Wheelhouse, at the Royal Highland Show at Ingliston in 2014. Its Chair is Jack Perry, a former CEO of Scottish Enterprise, and its CEO is Heather Jones.\n\nOne of its first actions was to secure £1.7 million funding for state-of-the-art equipment to help address key issues in the industry. The equipment will be installed at higher education institutions across Scotland, including the University of St Andrews, University of the Highlands and Islands, University of Aberdeen and University of Stirling.\n\nSAIC is one of eight Innovation Centres funded by the Scottish Funding Council, which is investing up to £110 million in core funding over five years. In addition to the Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre, they include: the Innovation Centre for Sensors and Imaging Systems (CENSIS); Digital Health Institute (DHI); Oil & Gas Innovation Centre (OGIC); and Stratified Medicine Scotland Innovation Centre (SMS-IC).\n\nCommenting on the launch of the Centres and their work, the Scottish Government Education Secretary Mike Russell stated: “The innovation centre collaborations ... will help develop the skills that Scottish business needs to success in the global marketplace in a range of sectors.\n\n“By using Scotland’s exceptional research base, we are able to respond nimbly to opportunities for potential growth.”\n\nMarine Scotland\n\nScottish Funding Council\n\n"}
{"id": "35543634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35543634", "title": "Secretariat (administrative office)", "text": "Secretariat (administrative office)\n\nThe secretariat of an organization is the department that fulfils its central administrative or general secretary duties. The term is especially associated with governments and intergovernmental organizations such as the United Nations, although some non-governmental organizations (for example, the International Organization for Standardization) also refer to their administrative department as their secretariat. The building or office complex that houses such a department may also be referred to as its secretariat or secretariat building.\n\nIn some cases, the secretariat is not a bureaucratic organ, but one which includes a certain organization run by all its members who collectively help to organize the larger group, such as the secretariat of the International of Anarchist Federations, which is an office that rotates irregularly between its member Federations.\n\nThe Zhongshu Sheng or simply the Secretariat was one department in the Three Departments and Six Ministries structure in the history of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "36088416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36088416", "title": "Secretary (title)", "text": "Secretary (title)\n\nSecretary is a title often used in organizations to indicate a person having a certain amount of authority, power, or importance in the organization. Secretaries announce important events and communicate to the organization. The term is derived from the Latin word , \"to distinguish\" or \"to set apart\", the passive participle () meaning \"having been set apart\", with the eventual connotation of something private or confidential, as with the English word \"secret.\" A was a person, therefore, overseeing business confidentially, usually for a powerful individual (a king, pope, etc.).\n\nThe official title of the leader of most communist and socialist political parties is the \"General Secretary of the Central Committee\" or \"First Secretary of the Central Committee\". When a communist party is in power, the General Secretary is usually the country's \"de facto\" leader (though sometimes this leader also holds state-level positions to monopolize power, such as a presidency or premiership in order to constitute \"de jure\" leadership of the state), such as China and Cuba.\n\nIn England, the term \"secretarius\" was used \"from the beginning of the thirteenth century in the varying meanings of a confidential clerk, an ambassador, or a member of the king's council\". In the fourteenth century, the title became strongly associated with the keeper of the king's signet. From the Renaissance to the late 19th century, men involved in the daily correspondence and the activities of the powerful assumed the title of secretary. With time, like many titles, the term was applied to more and varied functions, leading to compound titles to specify the authority associated with its use, like general secretary or financial secretary.\n\nIn some countries, such as the United States, the term \"secretary\" is used to indicate the holder of a cabinet-level post. This usage derives in part from the desire of the founders of the United States to differentiate the country from the United Kingdom, which denoted such offices as ministers. There are a number of popular variations of the title used to indicate that the secretary in question has a high degree of authority, such as general secretary (or, following usage in the Norman language, secretary-general), first secretary, and executive secretary.\n\nIn a club or society, the secretary is also considered to be, in most cases, the third person in charge of the organization, after the president/chairman and vice president/vice chairman. In smaller organizations, the secretary typically takes meeting minutes, notifies members of meetings, contacts various persons in relation to the society, administers the day-to-day activities of the organization, and creates the order of business. The secretary of a non-governmental organization or international non-governmental organization can be vice president/vice chairman.\n\nGeneral secretary occurs as the title of a ministerial position of authority found in various organizations, such as trade unions, communist and socialist parties, and international non-governmental organizations. Examples include:\n\nExamples include:\n\nFirst secretary is the title of the chief officer or leader in many organizations, and is also a modern diplomatic rank. Examples include:\n\n\nExamples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48990", "title": "Social justice", "text": "Social justice\n\nSocial justice is a concept of fair and just relations between the individual and society. This is measured by the explicit and tacit terms for the distribution of wealth, opportunities for personal activity, and social privileges. In Western as well as in older Asian cultures, the concept of social justice has often referred to the process of ensuring that individuals fulfill their societal roles and receive what was their due from society. In the current global grassroots movements for social justice, the emphasis has been on the breaking of barriers for social mobility, the creation of safety nets and economic justice.\n\nSocial justice assigns rights and duties in the institutions of society, which enables people to receive the basic benefits and burdens of cooperation. The relevant institutions often include taxation, social insurance, public health, public school, public services, labor law and regulation of markets, to ensure fair distribution of wealth, and equal opportunity.\n\nInterpretations that relate justice to a reciprocal relationship to society are mediated by differences in cultural traditions, some of which emphasize the individual responsibility toward society and others the equilibrium between access to power and its responsible use. Hence, social justice is invoked today while reinterpreting historical figures such as Bartolomé de las Casas, in philosophical debates about differences among human beings, in efforts for gender, racial and social equality, for advocating justice for migrants, prisoners, the environment, and the physically and developmentally disabled.\n\nWhile the concept of social justice can be traced through the theology of Augustine of Hippo and the philosophy of Thomas Paine, the term \"social justice\" became used explicitly from the 1840s. A Jesuit priest named Luigi Taparelli is typically credited with coining the term, and it spread during the revolutions of 1848 with the work of Antonio Rosmini-Serbati. However, recent research has proved that the use of the expression \"social justice\" is older (even before the 19th century). In the late industrial revolution, progressive American legal scholars began to use the term more, particularly Louis Brandeis and Roscoe Pound. From the early 20th century it was also embedded in international law and institutions; the preamble to establish the International Labour Organization recalled that \"universal and lasting peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice.\" In the later 20th century, social justice was made central to the philosophy of the social contract, primarily by John Rawls in \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971). In 1993, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action treats social justice as a purpose of human rights education.\n\nSome authors such as Friedrich Hayek criticize the concept of social justice, arguing the lack of objective, accepted moral standard; and that while there is a legal definition of what is just and equitable \"there is no test of what is socially unjust\", and further that social justice is often used for the reallocation of resources based on an arbitrary standard which may in fact be inequitable or unjust.\n\nThe different concepts of justice, as discussed in ancient Western philosophy, were typically centered upon the community.\n\nAfter the Renaissance and Reformation, the modern concept of social justice, as developing human potential, began to emerge through the work of a series of authors. Baruch Spinoza in \"On the Improvement of the Understanding\" (1677) contended that the one true aim of life should be to acquire \"a human character much more stable than [one's] own\", and to achieve this \"pitch of perfection... The chief good is that he should arrive, together with other individuals if possible, at the possession of the aforesaid character.\" During the enlightenment and responding to the French and American Revolutions, Thomas Paine similarly wrote in \"The Rights of Man\" (1792) society should give \"genius a fair and universal chance\" and so \"the construction of government ought to be such as to bring forward... all that extent of capacity which never fails to appear in revolutions.\"\n\nAlthough there is no certainty about the first use of the term \"social justice\", early sources can be found in Europe in the 18th century. Some references to the use of the expression are in articles of journals aligned with the spirit of the Enlightenment, in which social justice is described as an obligation of the monarch; also the term is present in books written by Catholic Italian theologians, notably members of the Society of Jesus. Thus, according to this sources and the context, social justice was another term for \"the justice of society\", the justice that rules the relations among individuals in society, without any mention to socio-economic equity or human dignity.\n\nThe usage of the term started to become more frequent by Catholic thinkers from the 1840s, including the Jesuit Luigi Taparelli in \"Civiltà Cattolica\", based on the work of St. Thomas Aquinas. He argued that rival capitalist and socialist theories, based on subjective Cartesian thinking, undermined the unity of society present in Thomistic metaphysics as neither were sufficiently concerned with moral philosophy. Writing in 1861, the influential British philosopher and economist, John Stuart Mill stated in \"Utilitarianism\" his view that \"Society should treat all equally well who have deserved equally well of it, that is, who have deserved equally well absolutely. This is the highest abstract standard of social and distributive justice; towards which all institutions, and the efforts of all virtuous citizens, should be made in the utmost degree to converge.\"\n\nIn the later 19th and early 20th century, social justice became an important theme in American political and legal philosophy, particularly in the work of John Dewey, Roscoe Pound and Louis Brandeis. One of the prime concerns was the \"Lochner era\" decisions of the US Supreme Court to strike down legislation passed by state governments and the Federal government for social and economic improvement, such as the eight-hour day or the right to join a trade union. After the First World War, the founding document of the International Labour Organization took up the same terminology in its preamble, stating that \"peace can be established only if it is based on social justice\". From this point, the discussion of social justice entered into mainstream legal and academic discourse.\n\nThus, in 1931, the Pope Pius XI stated the expression for the first time in the Catholic Social Teaching in the encyclical Quadragesimo Anno. Then again in Divini Redepmtoris, the Church pointed out that the realisation of social justice relied on the promotion of the dignity of human person. The same year, and because of the documented influence of Divini Redemptoris in its drafters, the Constitution of Ireland was the first one to establish the term as a principle of the economy in the State, and then other countries around the world did the same throughout the 20th century, even in Socialist regimes such as the Cuban Constitution in 1976. \n\nIn the late 20th century, a number of liberal and conservative thinkers, notably Friedrich von Hayek rejected the concept by stating that it did not mean anything, or meant too many things. However the concept remained highly influential, particularly with its promotion by philosophers such as John Rawls. Even though the meaning of social justice varies, at least three common elements can be identified in the contemporary theories about it: a duty of the State to distribute certain vital means (such as economic, social, and cultural rights), the protection of human dignity, and affirmative actions to promote equal opportunities for everybody.\n\nHunter Lewis' work promoting natural healthcare and sustainable economies advocates for conservation as a key premise in social justice. His manifesto on sustainability ties the continued thriving of human life to real conditions, the environment supporting that life, and associates injustice with the detrimental effects of unintended consequences of human actions. Quoting classical Greek thinkers like Epicurus on the good of pursuing happiness, Hunter also cites ornithologist, naturalist, and philosopher Alexander Skutch in his book Moral Foundations:\n\nPope Benedict XVI cites Teilhard de Chardin in a vision of the cosmos as a 'living host' embracing an understanding of ecology that includes humanity's relationship to others, that pollution affects not just the natural world but interpersonal relations as well. Cosmic harmony, justice and peace are closely interrelated:\n\nIn \"The Quest for Cosmic Justice\", Thomas Sowell writes that seeking utopia, while admirable, may have disastrous effects if done without strong consideration of the economic underpinnings that support contemporary society.\n\nPolitical philosopher John Rawls draws on the utilitarian insights of Bentham and Mill, the social contract ideas of John Locke, and the categorical imperative ideas of Kant. His first statement of principle was made in \"A Theory of Justice\" where he proposed that, \"Each person possesses an inviolability founded on justice that even the welfare of society as a whole cannot override. For this reason justice denies that the loss of freedom for some is made right by a greater good shared by others.\" A deontological proposition that echoes Kant in framing the moral good of justice in absolutist terms. His views are definitively restated in \"Political Liberalism\" where society is seen \"as a fair system of co-operation over time, from one generation to the next\".\n\nAll societies have a basic structure of social, economic, and political institutions, both formal and informal. In testing how well these elements fit and work together, Rawls based a key test of legitimacy on the theories of social contract. To determine whether any particular system of collectively enforced social arrangements is legitimate, he argued that one must look for agreement by the people who are subject to it, but not necessarily to an objective notion of justice based on coherent ideological grounding. Obviously, not every citizen can be asked to participate in a poll to determine his or her consent to every proposal in which some degree of coercion is involved, so one has to assume that all citizens are reasonable. Rawls constructed an argument for a two-stage process to determine a citizen's hypothetical agreement:\nThis applies to one person who represents a small group (e.g., the organiser of a social event setting a dress code) as equally as it does to national governments, which are ultimate trustees, holding representative powers for the benefit of all citizens within their territorial boundaries. Governments that fail to provide for welfare of their citizens according to the principles of justice are not legitimate. To emphasise the general principle that justice should rise from the people and not be dictated by the law-making powers of governments, Rawls asserted that, \"There is ... a general presumption against imposing legal and other restrictions on conduct without sufficient reason. But this presumption creates no special priority for any particular liberty.\" This is support for an unranked set of liberties that reasonable citizens in all states should respect and uphold — to some extent, the list proposed by Rawls matches the normative human rights that have international recognition and direct enforcement in some nation states where the citizens need encouragement to act in a way that fixes a greater degree of equality of outcome. According to Rawls, the basic liberties that every good society should guarantee are:\n\nThomas Pogge's arguments pertain to a standard of social justice that creates human rights deficits. He assigns responsibility to those who actively cooperate in designing or imposing the social institution, that the order is foreseeable as harming the global poor and is reasonably avoidable. Pogge argues that social institutions have a negative duty to not harm the poor.\n\nPogge speaks of \"institutional cosmopolitanism\" and assigns responsibility to institutional schemes for deficits of human rights. An example given is slavery and third parties. A third party should not recognize or enforce slavery. The institutional order should be held responsible only for deprivations of human rights that it establishes or authorizes. The current institutional design, he says, systematically harms developing economies by enabling corporate tax evasion, illicit financial flows, corruption, trafficking of people and weapons. Joshua Cohen disputes his claims based on the fact that some poor countries have done well with the current institutional design. Elizabeth Kahn argues that some of these responsibilities should apply globally.\n\nThe United Nations’ 2006 document \"Social Justice in an Open World: The Role of the United Nations\", states that \"Social justice may be broadly understood as the fair and compassionate distribution of the fruits of economic growth...\"\n\nThe term \"social justice\" was seen by the U.N. \"as a substitute for the protection of human rights [and] first appeared in United Nations texts during the second half of the 1960s. At the initiative of the Soviet Union, and with the support of developing countries, the term was used in the Declaration on Social Progress and Development, adopted in 1969.\"\n\nThe same document reports, \"From the comprehensive global perspective shaped by the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, neglect of the pursuit of social justice in all its dimensions translates into de facto acceptance of a future marred by violence, repression and chaos.\" The report concludes, \"Social justice is not possible without strong and coherent redistributive policies conceived and implemented by public agencies.\"\n\nThe same UN document offers a concise history: \"[T]he notion of social justice is relatively new. None of history’s great philosophers—not Plato or Aristotle, or Confucius or Averroes, or even Rousseau or Kant—saw the need to consider justice or the redress of injustices from a social perspective. The concept first surfaced in Western thought and political language in the wake of the industrial revolution and the parallel development of the socialist doctrine. It emerged as an expression of protest against what was perceived as the capitalist exploitation of labour and as a focal point for the development of measures to improve the human condition. It was born as a revolutionary slogan embodying the ideals of progress and fraternity. Following the revolutions that shook Europe in the mid-1800s, social justice became a rallying cry for progressive thinkers and political activists... By the mid-twentieth century, the concept of social justice had become central to the ideologies and programmes of virtually all the leftist and centrist political parties around the world...\"\n\nThe present-day Jāti hierarchy is undergoing changes for a variety of reasons including 'social justice', which is a politically popular stance in democratic India. Institutionalized affirmative action has promoted this. The disparity and wide inequalities in social behaviour of the jātis – exclusive, endogamous communities centred on traditional occupations – has led to various reform movements in Hinduism. While legally outlawed, the caste system remains strong in practice.\n\nIn Muslim history, Islamic governance has often been associated with social justice. Establishment of social justice was one of the motivating factors of the Abbasid revolt against the Umayyads. The Shi'a believe that the return of the \"Mahdi\" will herald in \"the messianic age of justice\" and the Mahdi along with the Isa (Jesus) will end plunder, torture, oppression and discrimination.\n\nFor the Muslim Brotherhood the implementation of social justice would require the rejection of consumerism and communism. The Brotherhood strongly affirmed the right to private property as well as differences in personal wealth due to factors such as hard work. However, the Brotherhood held Muslims had an obligation to assist those Muslims in need. It held that \"zakat\" (alms-giving) was not voluntary charity, but rather the poor had the right to assistance from the more fortunate. Most Islamic governments therefore enforce the \"zakat\" through taxes.\n\nIn \"To Heal a Fractured World: The Ethics of Responsibility\", Rabbi Jonathan Sacks states that social justice has a central place in Judaism. One of Judaism’s most distinctive and challenging ideas is its ethics of responsibility reflected in the concepts of simcha (\"gladness\" or \"joy\"), tzedakah (\"the religious obligation to perform charity and philanthropic acts\"), chesed (\"deeds of kindness\"), and tikkun olam (\"repairing the world\"). \n\nFrom its founding, Methodism was a Christian social justice movement. Under John Wesley's direction, Methodists became leaders in many social justice issues of the day, including the prison reform and abolition movements. Wesley himself was among the first to preach for slaves rights attracting significant opposition.\n\nToday, social justice plays a major role in the United Methodist Church. The \"Book of Discipline of the United Methodist Church\" says, \"We hold governments responsible for the protection of the rights of the people to free and fair elections and to the freedoms of speech, religion, assembly, communications media, and petition for redress of grievances without fear of reprisal; to the right to privacy; and to the guarantee of the rights to adequate food, clothing, shelter, education, and health care.\" The United Methodist Church also teaches population control as part of its doctrine.\n\nCatholic social teaching consists of those aspects of Roman Catholic doctrine which relate to matters dealing with the respect of the individual human life. A distinctive feature of Catholic social doctrine is its concern for the poorest and most vulnerable members of society. Two of the seven key areas of \"Catholic social teaching\" are pertinent to social justice:\n\nEven before it was propounded in the Catholic social doctrine, social justice appeared regularly in the history of the Catholic Church:\n\nThe Catechism (§ 1928–1948) contain more detail of the Church's view of social justice.\n\nThe Chinese concept of Tian Ming has occasionally been perceived as an expression of social justice. Through it, the deposition of unfair rulers is justified in that civic dissatisfaction and economical disasters is perceived as Heaven withdrawing its favor from the Emperor. A successful rebellion is considered definite proof that the Emperor is unfit to rule.\n\nSocial justice is also a concept that is used to describe the movement towards a socially just world, e.g., the Global Justice Movement. In this context, social justice is based on the concepts of human rights and equality, and can be defined as \"the way in which human rights are manifested in the everyday lives of people at every level of society\".\n\nA number of movements are working to achieve social justice in society. These movements are working towards the realization of a world where all members of a society, regardless of background or procedural justice, have basic human rights and equal access to the benefits of their society.\n\nLiberation theology is a movement in Christian theology which conveys the teachings of Jesus Christ in terms of a liberation from unjust economic, political, or social conditions. It has been described by proponents as \"an interpretation of Christian faith through the poor's suffering, their struggle and hope, and a critique of society and the Catholic faith and Christianity through the eyes of the poor\", and by detractors as Christianity perverted by Marxism and Communism.\n\nAlthough liberation theology has grown into an international and inter-denominational movement, it began as a movement within the Catholic Church in Latin America in the 1950s–1960s. It arose principally as a moral reaction to the poverty caused by social injustice in that region. It achieved prominence in the 1970s and 1980s. The term was coined by the Peruvian priest, Gustavo Gutiérrez, who wrote one of the movement's most famous books, \"A Theology of Liberation\" (1971). According to Sarah Kleeb, \"Marx would surely take issue,\" she writes, \"with the appropriation of his works in a religious context...there is no way to reconcile Marx's views of religion with those of Gutierrez, they are simply incompatible. Despite this, in terms of their understanding of the necessity of a just and righteous world, and the nearly inevitable obstructions along such a path, the two have much in common; and, particularly in the first edition of [A Theology of Liberation], the use of Marxian theory is quite evident.\"\n\nOther noted exponents are Leonardo Boff of Brazil, Carlos Mugica of Argentina, Jon Sobrino of El Salvador, and Juan Luis Segundo of Uruguay.\n\nSocial justice has more recently made its way into the field of bioethics. Discussion involves topics such as affordable access to health care, especially for low income households and families. The discussion also raises questions such as whether society should bear healthcare costs for low income families, and whether the global marketplace is the best way to distribute healthcare. Ruth Faden of the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics and Madison Powers of Georgetown University focus their analysis of social justice on which inequalities matter the most. They develop a social justice theory that answers some of these questions in concrete settings.\n\nSocial injustices occur when there is a preventable difference in health states among a population of people. These social injustices take the form of health inequities when negative health states such as malnourishment, and infectious diseases are more prevalent in impoverished nations. These negative health states can often be prevented by providing social and economic structures such as primary healthcare which ensures the general population has equal access to health care services regardless of income level, gender, education or any other stratifying factors. Integrating social justice with health inherently reflects the social determinants of health model without discounting the role of the bio-medical model.\n\nThe Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action affirm that \"Human rights education should include peace, democracy, development and social justice, as set forth in international and regional human rights instruments, in order to achieve common understanding and awareness with a view to strengthening universal commitment to human rights.\"\n\nMany authors criticize the idea that there exists an objective standard of social justice. Moral relativists deny that there is any kind of objective standard for justice in general. Non-cognitivists, moral skeptics, moral nihilists, and most logical positivists deny the epistemic possibility of objective notions of justice. Political realists believe that any ideal of social justice is ultimately a mere justification for the status quo.\n\nMany other people accept some of the basic principles of social justice, such as the idea that all human beings have a basic level of value, but disagree with the elaborate conclusions that may or may not follow from this. One example is the statement by H. G. Wells that all people are \"equally entitled to the respect of their fellowmen.\"\n\nFriedrich Hayek of the Austrian School of economics: rejects the very idea of social justice as meaningless, religious, self-contradictory, and ideological, believing that to realize any degree of social justice is unfeasible, and that the attempt to do so must destroy all liberty:\nBen O'Neill of the University of New South Wales argues that, for proponents of \"social justice\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26091881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26091881", "title": "Southern Movement", "text": "Southern Movement\n\nThe Southern Movement ( \"al-Ḥirāk al-Janūbiyy\"), sometimes known as the Southern Separatist Movement, or South Yemen Movement, and colloquially known as al-Hirak, is a political movement and paramilitary organization active in the south of Yemen since 2007, demanding secession from the Republic of Yemen and a return to the former independent state of South Yemen. At present, its political branch, the Southern Transitional Council led by Aidarus al-Zoubaidi, is the de facto leadership in all provinces of the south.\n\nAfter the union between South Yemen and North Yemen on May 22, 1990, a civil war broke out in 1994. This came after leaders of the former independent southern state declared an end to the unity deal amidst an alleged power-grabbing usurp by their northern counterparts. The result was a swift defeat of the weakened southern forces and the expulsion of most of its leaders out of Yemen, including the former Secretary-General of the Yemeni Socialist Party and the Vice-President of the unified Yemen, Ali Salim al-Beidh.\n\nAfter the 1994 civil war, calls for southern independence were successfully put down and the national unity was maintained. Grievances however remained high amongst many residents of the south. Accusations of corruption, nepotism and electoral fraud were levelled against the new ruling party based in Sana'a, led by President Ali Abdullah Saleh, as well as a mishandling of the power-sharing arrangement agreed to by both parties in the 1990 unity deal.\n\nMany in the south also felt that their land, home to much of the country's oil reserves and wealth resources, was being exploited after the unity deal. Privately owned land was seized and distributed amongst people affiliated with the Sana'a government. Several hundred thousand military and civil employees from the south were forced into early retirement, and compensated with pensions below the subsistence level. Although equally low living standards were prevalent throughout the whole of Yemen, many in the south felt that they were being intentionally targeted and dismissed from important posts, and being replaced with northern officials affiliated with the new government. The city of Aden, the former capital city of South Yemen, was also seen to be neglected both socially and economically, whilst investments appeared to be focussed instead on Sana'a, the new capital.\n\nBeyond the economic grievances were also cultural and social ones too. Many in the south long believed they held a distinct historical path with their northern neighbours, which became more evident after the 1990 unity. After 128 years of British rule, South Yemen was an independent state for 23 years. Despite economic difficulty in its later years with the collapse of its main backer the Soviet Union, the socialist state prided itself on its free healthcare, education and welfare system. Many in Aden today speak foreign languages or have technical skills as a result of their state-sponsored education abroad enjoyed in the days of pre-unity South Yemen. Unlike the north, tribalism was looked upon with disdain and generally stamped out of everyday life in the south, which instead preferred the law and order of civil society passed onto them from British rule. Post-1994 unity saw a gradual return of tribalism into southern society. It is not uncommon for residents of the south to even refer to those from the north as being \"mutikhalifeen\" or backward.\n\nIn May 2007, grieving pensioners who had not been paid for years began to organise small demonstrations demanding better rights and an end to the economic and political marginalization of the south. As the protests spread throughout Aden and grew more popular, so too did the demands of those protesting. Eventually, calls were being made once again for the secession of the south and the re-establishment of South Yemen as an independent state. The government's response to these peaceful protests was heavy-handed, labelling them as 'apostates of the state' and using live ammunition to disperse the crowds.\n\nThis eventually gave birth to the Southern Movement, which grew to consist of a loose coalition of groups seeking a complete secession from the north. Their presence in the south was restricted, and their actions were limited to the organising of protests and marches across the south which were often met with deadly violence. To raise the former flag of South Yemen was considered a crime in Aden, although a common practice outside of the city where government control was limited.\n\nIn 2015, the Southern Movement rose to prominence after entering into a loose alliance with the exiled President Hadi and proving to be a vital force in the pushback against Houthi forces from the southern city of Aden, receiving both financial and military assistance from members of the Gulf coalition as a result.\n\nToday, the Southern Movement through its political branch the Southern Transitional Council has a significant presence in all areas of the former southern territories. Flags of the former southern republic are flown from Aden to Hadramout, often alongside those of the Arab coalition as a gesture of gratitude for their ongoing support.\n\nIn January 2018, the STC broke away from Hadi after clashes in the city of Aden saw their forces overrun all governmental buildings aligned to the president in exile. At present, the STC, led by Aidarus al-Zoubaidi, is the de facto leadership in all provinces of the south.\n\nAccording to Reuters after the 1994 Yemeni unification, the leaders of al-Hirak were exiled in Hezbollah-controlled Beirut and received training from Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. In 2015, the leaders of the movement moved to Abu Dhabi and allied themselves with the United Arab Emirates, leaving Iran's orbit. \"They want to fight Iranian militias trying to seize our lands, and we do too. This is enough for the alliance to make sense for now,\" one southern official told Reuters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38954088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38954088", "title": "Spreading ground", "text": "Spreading ground\n\nA spreading ground is a water conservation facility that retains surface water long enough for it to percolate into the soil. Spreading grounds must be located where underlying soils are permeable and connected to a target aquifer.\nLocating them above silt or clay would prevent the surface water from reaching formations that store water.\n\nWhen natural percolation of precipitation is insufficient to replenish groundwater withdrawn for human use, artificial recharge helps prevent aquifer depletion, subsidence and saltwater intrusion. Spreading grounds are one of several available technologies, and are useful to harness storm water runoff in populated areas with low annual precipitation.\nFor example, Los Angeles County, California has 27 such facilities, and four more operated in conjunction with the department, many of which date to the 1930s.\n\nWhile managed aquifer recharge (MAR) projects utilizing storm water and diverted surface water runoff augment groundwater recharge, data suggests that the infiltration capacity of spreading grounds in drought-prone regions is underused due to the seasonality of rainfall. In response, interest is being generated around MAR projects that utilize recycled water to supplement other water sources. Orange County's Groundwater Replenishment System serves as an example of one such system that is combining recycled water and storm water to recharge groundwater through spreading grounds to meet the municipality's annual water needs.\n\nToday, many spreading grounds, which were once considered single-purpose facilities, are being converted to combine municipalities' goals for groundwater recharge with demands for additional recreational opportunities, green space and wildlife habitat. The Dominguez Gap Wetlands in Long Beach, CA, which consists of two spreading grounds, is an example of one of these multi-purpose facilities. While the facility's east basin was converted into constructed wetlands, the west basin remains a spreading ground that recharges the local aquifer by an estimated 450-acre feet annually.\n"}
{"id": "48951292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48951292", "title": "Teaching school", "text": "Teaching school\n\nA Teaching school is an Ofsted-graded outstanding school that work with other partners to provide high-quality training and development to school staff. They are part of the UK government's plan to give schools in England a central role in raising standards by developing a self-improving and sustainable school-led system.\n\nThey were first introduced by the coalition government in 2010, in a white paper entitled \"The Importance of Teaching\". The intention was to replace the university-based teacher training programmes with a workplace-based school-centred and led approach which devolves responsibility for development and management of education to the schools.\n"}
{"id": "58149221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58149221", "title": "Texas Senate Bill 5 (85th Legislature)", "text": "Texas Senate Bill 5 (85th Legislature)\n\nTexas Senate Bill 5 (SB 5) is a bill that implements a form of voter identification law in the state of Texas. It is a revamped version of a previous Texas voter ID law (SB 14) that was introduced in 2011.\n\nSB 5 was filed on February 21, 2017 during the regular session of the eighty-fifth Texas Legislature. The bill passed the Texas Senate with a 21-10 vote, and it passed the Texas House of Representatives with a 92-56 vote with 1 present, not voting.  Governor Greg Abbott signed the bill on June 1, 2017, and it became effective January 1, 2018.\n\nTexas Senate Bill 5 requires voters to present an acceptable form of photo ID before casting a ballot at the polls. There are currently 7 acceptable forms of ID:\n\n\nFor voters between the ages of 18-69, the above ID’s cannot be expired for more than 4 years. For voters aged over 70, any of the above valid ID’s can be expired for more than 4 years.\n\nUnder the bill, voters who do not possess any of the seven forms of ID and are unable to obtain one through reasonable means may vote if they complete a Reasonable Impediment Declaration and show one of the following supporting forms of ID:\n\n\nOn August 23, 2017, U.S. District Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos ruled that Texas Senate Bill 5 failed to sufficiently reform the discriminatory effect the original voter ID law (SB 14) had on Hispanic and black voters. SB 14 had previously been ruled against by both the U.S. 5th Circuit Court of Appeals and Judge Ramos for its discriminatory impact. The August 23, 2017 decision by Judge Ramos was appealed by the State of Texas. The U.S. 5th Circuit Court of Appeals heard the case on December 5, 2017 and ultimately reversed Ramos' ruling. On December 8, 2017, the Appellate Court upheld SB 5 in a 2-1 decision on the grounds that intentional discrimination cannot be traced from SB 14 to the newly revised SB 5 without a new legal challenge directed specifically at SB 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "1054661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054661", "title": "The Black Book of Communism", "text": "The Black Book of Communism\n\nThe Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression is a 1997 book by Stéphane Courtois, Nicolas Werth, Andrzej Paczkowski and several other European academics documenting a history of political repressions by Communist states, including genocides, extrajudicial executions, deportations, killing population in labor camps and artificially created famines. The book was originally published in France as \"Le Livre noir du communisme: Crimes, terreur, répression\" by Éditions Robert Laffont. In the United States, it was published by Harvard University Press, with a foreword by Martin Malia. The German edition, published by Piper Verlag, includes a chapter written by Joachim Gauck. The introduction was written by Courtois. Historian François Furet was originally slated to write the introduction, but was prevented from doing so by his death. The book has been translated into numerous languages, sold million of copies and is considered one of the most influential, although one of the most controversial, books written about communism. \n\nThe book's title was chosen to echo the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee's \"Black Book\", a documentary record of Nazi atrocities by Ilya Ehrenburg and Vasily Grossman.\n\nIn the first chapter of the book entitled \"Introduction: The Crimes of Communism\", Stéphane Courtois states that \"Communist regimes turned mass crime into a full-blown system of government\" and they are responsible for a greater number of deaths than Nazism or any other political system.\n\nAccording to the chapter, the number of people killed by the Communist governments amounts to more than 94 million. The statistics of victims include deaths through executions, man-made hunger, famine, war, deportations and forced labor. The breakdown of the number of deaths is given as follows:\n\nAccording to Courtois, the crimes by the Soviet Union included the following: \n\nCourtois considers Communism and Nazism to be distinct, but comparable totalitarian systems. He says that Communist regimes have killed \"approximately 100 million people in contrast to the approximately 25 million victims of the Nazis\". Courtois claims that Nazi Germany's methods of mass extermination were adopted from Soviet methods. As an example, he cites the Nazi SS official Rudolf Höss who organized the infamous extermination camp, Auschwitz concentration camp. According to Höss: \n\nCourtois argues that the Soviet crimes against peoples living in the Caucasus and of large social groups in the Soviet Union could be called \"genocide\" and that they were not very much different from similar policies by Nazis. Both Communist and Nazi systems deemed \"a part of humanity unworthy of existence. The difference is that the Communist model is based on the class system, the Nazi model on race and territory\". Courtois further stated: \n\nHe added: \n\nThe German edition contains an additional chapter on the Soviet-backed Communist regime in East Germany titled \"Die Aufarbeitung des Sozialismus in der DDR\". It consists of two subchapters, \"Politische Verbrechen in der DDR\" by Ehrhart Neubert; and \"Vom schwierigen Umgang mit der Wahrnehmung\" by Joachim Gauck.\n\nThe book has evoked a wide variety of responses, ranging from enthusiastic support to severe criticism.\n\n\"The Black Book of Communism\" received praise in many publications in the United States and the United Kingdom, including \"The Times Literary Supplement\", \"The New York Times Book Review\", \"Library Journal\", \"Kirkus Reviews\", \"The New Republic\", \"National Review\" and \"The Weekly Standard\". The book has also been influential in Eastern Europe, where it was uncritically embraced by prominent politicians and intellectuals—many of these intellectuals popularized it using terminology and concepts popular with the radical right.\n\nHistorian Tony Judt wrote in \"The New York Times\": \"The myth of the well-intentioned founders—the good czar Lenin betrayed by his evil heirs—has been laid to rest for good. No one will any longer be able to claim ignorance or uncertainty about the criminal nature of Communism\". Similarly, historian Jolanta Pekacz remarked that the \"archival revelations of \"The Black Book\" collapse the myth of a benign, initial phase of communism before it was diverted from the right path by circumstances\". Anne Applebaum, journalist and author of \"\", described the book as \"a serious, scholarly history of Communist crimes in the Soviet Union, Eastern and Western Europe, China, North Korea, Cambodia, Vietnam, Africa, and Latin America [...]. \"The Black Book\" does indeed surpass many of its predecessors in conveying the grand scale of the Communist tragedy, thanks to its authors' extensive use of the newly opened archives of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe\".\n\nHistorian Martin Malia, who prefaced the English-language edition of the book, described it as \"the publishing sensation in France [...] detailing Communism's crimes from Russia in 1917 to Afghanistan in 1989... [\"The Black Book of Communism\"] gives a balance sheet of our present knowledge of Communism's human costs, archivally based where possible, and otherwise drawing on the best secondary works, and with due allowance for the difficulties of quantification\".\n\nPolitical scientist Vladimir Tismăneanu, whose work focuses on Eastern Europe, wrote that \"the \"Black Book of Communism\" succeeds in demonstrating is that Communism in its Leninist version (and, one must recognize, this has been the only successful application of the original dogma) was from the very outset inimical to the values of individual rights and human freedom\". Tismaneanu argued that Courtois' comparison of Communism to Nazism was broadly justifiable, writing that while \"[a]nalytical distinctions between them are certainly important, and sometimes Courtois does not emphasize them sufficiently\", their \"commonality in terms of complete contempt for the bourgeois state of law, human rights, and the universality of humankind regardless of spurious race and class distinctions is in my view beyond doubt\". Tismaneanu further noted that in making his comparison, Courtois was drawing on Grossman's earlier explorations of the same theme in \"Life and Fate\" and \"Forever Flowing\".\n\nSeveral reviewers have singled out Nicolas Werth's \"State against its People\" as being the most notable and best researched contribution in the book. Intellectual historian Ronald Aronson wrote: \"[Werth] is concerned, fortunately, neither to minimize nor to maximize numbers, but to accurately determine what happened\".\n\nWhereas chapters of the book, where it describes the events in separate Communist states, were highly praised, some generalizations made by Courtois in the introduction to the book became a subject of criticism both on scholarly and political grounds. Moreover, two of the book's main contributors—Nicolas Werth and Jean-Louis Margolin—as well as Karel Bartosek publicly disassociated themselves from Courtois' statements in the introduction and criticized his editorial conduct. Werth and Margolin felt Courtois was \"obsessed\" with arriving at a total of 100 million killed which resulted in \"sloppy and biased scholarship\" and faulted him for exaggerating death tolls in specific countries. They also argued that based on the results of their studies, one can tentatively estimate the total number of the victims at between 65 and 93 million. In particular, Margolin, who authored the \"Black Book\"s chapter on Vietnam, clarified \"that he has never mentioned a million deaths in Vietnam\". Historians Jean-Jacques Becker and J. Arch Getty have criticized Courtois for failing to draw a distinction between victims of neglect and famine and victims of \"intentional murder\". Economic historian Michael Ellman has argued that the book's estimate of \"at least 500,000\" deaths during the Soviet famine of 1946–1947 \"is formulated in an extremely conservative way, since the actual number of victims was much larger\", with 1,000,000–1,500,000 excess deaths. Regarding these questions, historian Alexander Dallin has argued that moral, legal, or political judgments hardly depend on the number of victims.\n\nMany observers have rejected Courtois's numerical and moral comparison of Communism to Nazism in the introduction. According to Werth, there was still a qualitative difference between Nazism and Communism, saying: \"Death camps did not exist in the Soviet Union\". He further told \"Le Monde\": \"The more you compare Communism and Nazism, the more the differences are obvious\". In a critical review, historian Amir Weiner wrote: \"When Stalin's successors opened the gates of the Gulag, they allowed 3 million inmates to return home. When the Allies liberated the Nazi death camps, they found thousands of human skeletons barely alive awaiting what they knew to be inevitable execution\". Historian Ronald Suny remarked that Courtois' comparison of 100 million victims of Communism to 25 million victims of Nazism \"[leaves out] out most of the 40-60,000,000 lives lost in the Second World War, for which arguably Hitler and not Stalin was principally responsible\". A report by the Wiesel Commission criticized the comparison of Gulag victims with Jewish Holocaust victims as an attempt to trivialize the Holocaust.\n\nHistorian Peter Kenez criticized the chapter written by Nicolas Werth: \"Werth can also be an extremely careless historian. He gives the number of Bolsheviks in October 1917 as 2,000, which is a ridiculous underestimate. He quotes from a letter of Lenin to Alexander Shliapnikov and gives the date as 17 October 1917; the letter could hardly have originated at that time, since in it Lenin talks about the need to defeat the Tsarist government, and turn the war into a civil conflict. He gives credit to the Austro-Hungarian rather than the German army for the conquest of Poland in 1915. He describes the Provisional Government as 'elected'. He incorrectly writes that the peasant rebels during the civil war did more harm to the Reds than to the Whites, and so on\". Historian Mark Tauger challenged the authors' thesis that the famine of 1933 was largely artificial and genocidal. According to journalist Gilles Perrault, the books ignores the effect of international factors, including military interventions, on the communist experience.\n\nSocial critic Noam Chomsky has criticized the book and its reception as one-sided by outlining economist Amartya Sen's research on hunger. While India's democratic institutions prevented famines, its excess of mortality over China—potentially attributable to the latter's more equal distribution of medical and other resources—was nonetheless close to 4 million per year for non-famine years. Chomsky argued that \"supposing we now apply the methodology of the \"Black Book\"\" to India, \"the democratic capitalist 'experiment' has caused more deaths than in the entire history of [...] Communism everywhere since 1917: over 100 million deaths by 1979, and tens of millions more since, in India alone\". \n\n\"Le Siècle des Communismes\", a collective work of twenty academics, was a response to both François Furet's \"Le passé d'une Illusion\" and Courtois's \"The Black Book of Communism\". It broke Communism down into series of discrete movements, with mixed positive and negative results.\n\n\"The Black Book of Communism\" prompted the publication of several other \"black books\" which argued that similar chronicles of violence and death tolls can be constructed from an examination of colonialism and capitalism.\n\nThe reception of \"The Black Book of Communism\" led to the publication of a series entitled \"Du passé faisons table rase! Histoire et mémoire du communisme en Europe\" in 2002, with the same imprint. The first edition included a subtitle: \"\"The Black Book of Communism\" has not said everything\". Like the first effort, this second work was edited by Stéphane Courtois. The book focused on the history of Communism in Eastern Europe.\n\nSeveral translations of the book were marketed as the second volume of \"The Black Book of Communism\": \"Das Schwarzbuch of Kommunismus 2. Das Erbe der schwere Ideology\" (Germany, Piper, 2004), \"Черната книга на комунизма 2. част\" (Bulgaria, Prosoretz, 2004) and \"Il libro del nero comunismo europeo\" (Italy, Mondadori, 2006).\n\nThe \"Epoch Times\" and Boda Publishing House got agreement with original publisher to translate \"The Black Book of Communism\" into Chinese. The preface is published on Chinese version of \"Epoch Times\" website in 1 January 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37467580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37467580", "title": "The Children of Peace", "text": "The Children of Peace\n\nThe Children of Peace (1812–1889) were an Upper Canadian Quaker sect under the leadership of David Willson, known also as 'Davidites', who separated during the War of 1812 from the Yonge Street Monthly Meeting in what is now Newmarket, Ontario, and moved to the Willson's farm. Their last service was held in the Sharon Temple in 1889.\n\nBetween 1825 and 1832, a series of buildings was constructed on the farm, the most notable of which is the Sharon Temple, an architectural symbol of their vision of a society based on the values of peace, equality and social justice, which is now part of an open-air museum that was in 1990 designated as National Historic Site of Canada.\n\nThey were a \"plain folk\", former Quakers with no musical tradition, who went on to create the first civilian band in Canada and build the first organ in Ontario. They built an ornate temple to raise money for the poor, and built the province's first shelter for the homeless. By 1851, Sharon Temple was the most prosperous agricultural settlement in the province. They took a lead role in the organization of the province's first co-operative, the Farmers' Storehouse, and opened the province's first credit union. Through their support of William Lyon Mackenzie; and by ensuring the elections of both \"fathers of responsible government\", Robert Baldwin and Louis LaFontaine, they played a critical role in the development of democracy in Canada.\n\nThe group is primarily associated with the community of Hope (now Sharon) in East Gwillimbury, York Region, Ontario, where they built their meeting houses (places of worship) and the Temple. They were, however, active throughout the old \"Home District\" and especially in Toronto. Although they never numbered more than 350 members, Reform politician and Rebellion leader William Lyon Mackenzie noted “they afford ample proofs, both in their village and in their chapels, that comparatively, great achievements may be accomplished by a few when united in their efforts and persevering in their habits.”\n\nThe Temple was constructed between 1825 and 1831. It was constructed in imitation of Solomon's Temple and the New Jerusalem described in Revelation 21, and used once a month to collect alms for the poor; two other meeting houses in the village of \"Hope\" were used for regular Sunday worship. The Children of Peace, having fled a cruel and uncaring English pharaoh, viewed themselves as the new Israelites lost in the wilderness of Upper Canada; here they would rebuild God’s kingdom on the principle of charity. The village of “Hope” was their new Jerusalem, the focal point of God’s kingdom on earth.\n\nThe leader of this group was David Willson, who was born of Presbyterian parents in New York State in 1778 and migrated to Canada in 1801. He joined the Quakers, of which his wife was a member, but his ministry was rejected when he began to preach at the beginning of the War of 1812. Willson was particularly concerned to take up the Society's peace testimony \"from where George Fox left it, and raise it so high, that all the Kingdoms of the Earth should see it.\" He was joined by a majority of the Quakers living on Yonge Street, including the Master Builder of the Temple and meeting houses, Ebenezer Doan. Doan’s farmhouse and out buildings now stand on the Sharon Temple Museum grounds. Samuel Hughes (Children of Peace), another leading member, played a large role in the development of the Farmers’ Storehouse, and reform politics.\n\nIn 1828, William Lyon Mackenzie visited Hope for the first time, describing it as a “village composed of about forty or fifty remarkably neat, clean dwellings; but what gives the most imposing effect is, the handsome newly built Temple, which is built nearly on the summit of the hill, and is now nearly finished. It is intended for their public worship, and is built somewhat after the manner of Solomon's Temple. The new church or chapel of the Children of Peace is certainly calculated to inspire the beholder with astonishment; its dimensions - its architecture - its situation - are all so extraordinary.” \nThe consolidation of the Children of Peace in a single village, Hope, was accompanied by their adoption of a cooperative economy. Through cooperative marketing, the establishment of a credit union, and a land-sharing system, the Children of Peace all became prosperous farmers in an era when new farmers frequently failed. The Children of Peace were never communal like many of the other new religious movements then sprouting up in the United States (like the Shakers, the early Mormons or the Oneida Perfectionists). The Children of Peace viewed trade as a necessarily moral act; in selling their wheat they were not concerned to simply obtain the \"highest market price.\" Since they did not have to calculate for profit, the logic of their commercial exchanges was based on moral principles, not economic ones. David Willson urged the members of his sect not to bargain at all, but seek a fixed price that represented their own needs, not the highest amount the market would bear.\n\nSoon after they completed their temple and began collecting alms there, members of the Children of Peace complained that the remainder of the unspent Charity Fund was “a loss of interest obstructing to benevolence and makes money useless like the misers’ store.” The Children of Peace began using the same fund for both gifts of charity as well as for loans to members. Those members who borrowed from the Charity Fund paid interest, transforming the fund into an endowment for further charity (and further loans) like today's Community Foundations. Since they controlled the loan process themselves, they could ensure that terms were manageable, that no one was denied credit, and that the repayment of the principal remained flexible in difficult times. Members of the Children of Peace took a lead role in a similar joint stock company, the Farmers’ Storehouse, Canada’s first farmers’ co-operative, which also began to offer loans to members in this period.\n\nAlthough captivated by visions of equality, the Children of Peace lived in an autocratic colony. They inspired other settlers to fight for democracy within a loose-knit \"Reform Movement\" of disenchanted farmers and tradesmen. David Willson had long been an active political figure. He had, for example, suggested the “General Convention of [Reform] Delegates” held in February 1834 to nominate candidates for the four ridings of the County of York. This was the foundation on which the Canadian Alliance Society (the first political party in the province) was erected; these candidates were required to pledge in advance to fight for a democratic reform platform in the House. David Willson was the main speaker before the convention and “he addressed the meeting with great force and effect”.\n\nWilliam Lyon Mackenzie was the elected representative for their riding, and was eventually to attempt to overthrow the government in the Rebellion of 1837. Some of the Children of Peace, including Willson’s sons and son-in-law, participated. The events and consequences of the rebellion are well known: the skirmish at Montgomery's Tavern, the hanging of Samuel Lount, Lord Durham's Report, political reform and Responsible Government (Cabinet rule). Less well known is the tedium of the jail cell in harsh winter conditions endured by many of the rebels. To while away the long hours, many prisoners carved small, ornate boxes as presents for their families. The boxes memorialize friends lost in battle, and express a defiant call for liberty and democracy. They were the sole consolation for those who had been widowed, or whose husbands remained in jail; for example, David Willson’s daughter, a pregnant Mary Willson Doan, wrote to her husband in jail wishing “you would be permitted to come to your little home”, acknowledging the reality, and desiring a “box” for her yet unborn child. That child, David Willson Doan, was born twelve days after the letter was written. Charles Doan remained in jail for a further five months.\n\nFollowing the Rebellion, the Children of Peace resisted Orange Order violence in the pursuit of democratic reform. Many members took part in a \"Durham Meeting\" in 1838 in which the Orange Order attacked the crowd with clubs, and in the melee, a young 19-year-old member of the Children of Peace, David Leppard, was killed when struck with a rock to his temple. Leppard’s death became a rallying point for Reformers across the province. Everyone knew who was responsible for his death. The Sheriff, William Jarvis, had egged on the Orange Order, and George Duggan Jr., a Toronto Alderman and Orange Order organizer had directed the mob. Yet no arrests were made. There was no inquiry into the death. And no one could hope for justice when the Sheriff himself – one of the co-accused – was responsible for picking the jurors at a trial.\n\nDuring the 1840s, Willson continued his association with the Reform Party; he was, for example, the campaign manager in the area for both Robert Baldwin and Louis LaFontaine, the “Fathers of Responsible Government” and first elected premiers of the province. It was the Children of Peace who ensured the election of Montreal lawyer Louis LaFontaine as their representative in Upper Canada. Willson argued that this was an opportunity, as he said, “to show our impartial respect to the Canadian people of the Lower province.” Here, Willson is expressing a clear Canadian identity that overcame differences in language and religion. It was a vision of Canadian citizenship that was ultimately successful, as LaFontaine was elected in the 4th Riding of York. Subsequently, they elected Baldwin in their riding. The band of the Children of Peace was a familiar sight at Baldwin's campaign rallies. In 1844, they held a campaign rally for Baldwin concurrently with the illumination of the Temple. Over 3000 people attended, an event that helped end the reign of Orange Order electoral violence.\n\nMost of the meeting houses of the Children of Peace are attributed to Master Builder Ebenezer Doan.\n\nThe first meeting house of the Children of Peace was built in 1819 on David Willson’s farm. It was square, forty feet to each side, and sixteen feet high. With one of Coates’s organs installed in 1820, the building acquired its more popular name, the Music Hall.\n\nBy far the best known of their buildings was the Temple, now a national historic site. The Temple's design is loosely based on a description of Solomon's Temple found in 1 Kings, chapter 6 and the New Jerusalem described in Revelation 21. The building was undertaken after Willson had a vision in which he was called \"To ornament the Christian Church with all the glory of Israel.\" Preparation for the construction would have begun in 1822, with actual construction taking place between 1825 and 1831. A symbolic seventh year was taken to build the \"ark\" at its centre. The building was three stories high; the first was an auditorium, built without a pulpit, and the second floor was a musician's gallery reached by a curved staircase, \"Jacob's Ladder.\" The Temple was used only once a month for an alms collection, again at Christmas, and for two special \"Illumination\" ceremonies in which its 2,952 panes of glass were set aglow.\n\nDavid Willson's Study was completed in September 1829. Its exterior colonnade and arches can be seen as the Temple “turned inside out”. It was also referred to as \"the counting house\" and was no doubt the office in which Willson wrote his many books, and operated the \"Farmer's Storehouse.\"\n\nThe second meeting house was three times the size of the first. Its design was based on David Willson’s study. Construction began in 1834 and completed in 1842. The building was 100 ft. long by 50 ft. wide surrounded by a colonnade of pillars. This building was painted a light yellow with green facings, and had a large room upstairs for Sabbath Schools, and band rehearsals. The main part of the building which was used for services.\n\nAs an offshoot of the Society of Friends, the Children of Peace shared most Quaker belief, especially in the innate presence of God (the \"inner light\") in every person. Like the Quakers, they practiced a spontaneous ministry, and eschewed a \"hireling clergy.\" David Willson was thus never their paid minister, and he never, in fact, entered the Temple during the monthly alms ceremony there. Like the Quakers, they also rejected any written creed or tests of faith: \"We have no written creed, and therefore we have no image to quarrel about, or literal rule to argue for, we are against nobody, but for all.\"\n\nWillson, however, did receive \"impressions on the mind\", visions calling him to \"ornament the Christian Church with the glory of Israel.\" He interpreted this as a call to rebuild Solomon's Temple as the new Jerusalem. During the 1830s, his preaching became more millenarian, prophesying the coming of a Messiah who would overthrow the British empire and establish God's kingdom on earth. He viewed his small group as the new Israelites lost in the wilderness of Upper Canada, who the new Messiah would come to lead.\n\nAfter the Rebellion of 1837, the sect lost many of the more distinctive theological features that marked its early stages.\n\nAmong the Protestant nominations, the Quakers were distinct for their rejection of music in worship. They argued that congregational singing was an empty form, and hence worshipped in silence until someone was moved to spontaneous ministry. David Willson, in contrast, began to \"sing in the ministry\" as early as 1811. He regarded music as another facet of the ministry, a spontaneous expression of God's word. He was to boast, \"I never repeat one communication twice over, nor sing one old hymn in worship: bread from heaven is our lot - descending mercies.\" The constant production of new hymn lyrics, like manna from heaven, \"were composed to suit the occasion on which they were sung.\" These hymns, eventually numbering in the thousands, were recorded in a special \"Book of Sacred Record\" stored in a secret compartment in the Arc at the centre of the Temple. At the beginning and end of each worship service, Willson would \"read out\" a hymn, line by line, which would then be sung back by the choir, and then the congregation. The lining out of hymns had been the traditional singing style of the 18th century, when hymn books were expensive and rare. Songs were sung a cappella, resulting in slow, improvised singing in which each singer was allowed to decorate the tunes as he or she saw fit.\n\nMany of the Quakers who joined the Children of Peace were skilled craftsmen, but the Quaker “testimony” on plainness discouraged them from embracing the arts; adornment of any kind was considered little but a sign of pride. Thus, when David Willson’s vision commanded him to “ornament the Church with all the glory of Israel,” the sect had to turn to an outsider, Richard Coates, for guidance. Coates, a former British Army Bandmaster, exerted tremendous influence on the art and music by which the Children of Peace came to be known outside their community. Coates was commissioned by the Children of Peace to build the first of their organs — said, in fact, to be the first built in Ontario; it sat on an elevated platform in the first meeting house. This was a \"barrel organ\", in effect, a large music box played by turning a handle. It is thus also potentially the first music recording made in Canada.\n\nIt was at this time that Coates gave lessons to the Children of Peace in the rudiments of musical performance, teaching members how to play the instruments of a brass band. The band sat under the platform on which the organ played. He also painted “the symbolic decorations of the interior of the Temple at Sharon,” and painted the banners that they carried in front of their processions. He also organized a choir of “virgins” (schoolgirls). The musical accompaniment provided by the choir, band and organs was in large part responsible for the fame — or infamy — which accrued to the Children of Peace. One Anglican clergyman in nearby Thornhill scathingly described them in the early 1830s: \"King David (Willson) frequently goes to a great distance, in order to edify the people of other townships by his music and eloquence... He never performs such religious errantry without being accompanied by his virgins, six in number, selected from among the females of his household, for their superior voices. These virgins are conveyed in the same wagon with himself over which there is an awning, to shelter them from the inclemency of the weather, and from sultry rays. In one of the other wagons follow as many youths, who form an accompaniment to the damsels, and swell the anthems and hosannahs by vocal and instrumental music. In the remaining wagon are transported... their musical instruments... He never fails to attract a large assemblage of people... The music of his sacred band is considered curious; and the oddity of his manner, and his condemnation of the Established Church, and of the government, are approved by many.\"\n\nIn 1846, the Children of Peace hired Daniel Cory, a music teacher from Boston, to teach them the unison singing style of the mainstream, and Willson produced three books of hymns for the members.\n\nThe largest of the organs built by Coates was a keyboard organ (now in the Temple) completed in 1848 for the second meeting house. The organ stood against the back wall of the second meeting house between the two rear doors. It stands about fourteen feet high, housed in an impressive case assembled in three towers; to the front are three semi-circles of gilded dummy pipes which hide the wooden pipework within. The organ has a manual 49-note direct mechanical keyboard, four drawstops, and 200 wooden flue pipes in four ranks. A manual bellows is pumped from the left side.\n\nThe Sharon Silver (or Temperance) Band was formed after a set of silver instruments was purchased in Boston for a reputed $1,500 in the 1860s. The bandleaders were Jesse Doan and from 1866 his nephew John Doan Graham. They wore blue uniforms and on occasion appeared on Lake Simcoe steamers and in Toronto.\n\nSoon after they separated from the Society of Friends in 1812, the Children of Peace established their first school; a boarding school taught by William Reid, \"a man of more than ordinary intellect\" with \"an excellent English education.\" One of Willson's first books was a \"Lesson of Instruction\", a reader on the group's distinctive beliefs for this school. The school was eventually known as \"the female institution\" after it was moved to Sharon. A day school for boys and girls was also opened. The boarding school was housed in a two storey \"Square House\" with David Willson and his wife Phebe as caretakers. The boarding school for girls was a bulwark of the community, and the young girls formed the sect's choir. The day school eventually moved into quarters on the second floor of the second meeting house.\n\n1851 represents the apogee of the community of Hope (Sharon). Their cooperative economy, their concern for charity and the equal prosperity of all, made them the most prosperous agricultural community in the entire province; substantial farmhouses now dotted the surrounding landscape. Their political influence was at its peak, with deep long-standing ties to both Baldwin and LaFontaine. But age was taking its toll on the village’s patriarch, David Willson, now in his seventies. He remained their only minister until his death in 1866, their numbers slowly dwindling.\nWillson’s son, John David Willson, led the Children of Peace thereafter, reading his father’s sermons to an aging congregation. Ministers from other denominations were gradually invited to preach in their meeting houses. In 1876, they incorporated as a “charitable society.” In 1889, after the death of Willson’s sons, the group ceased to exist, and the Temple was allowed to fall into ruins. \nThe last service was held in the Temple in 1889. The derelict Temple was purchased by the York Pioneer and Historical Society in 1917, and restored, making it one of the earliest examples of historic preservation in Canada. The temple is now a National Historic Site and Museum as well as a National Peace Site. The site has a collection of restored buildings and displays pioneer artefacts and historic items related to the sect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69328", "title": "United Arab Emirates", "text": "United Arab Emirates\n\nThe United Arab Emirates (UAE; '), sometimes simply called the Emirates ( '), is a country in Western Asia at the southeast end of the Arabian Peninsula on the Persian Gulf, bordering Oman to the east and Saudi Arabia to the south, as well as sharing maritime borders with Qatar to the west and Iran to the north. The sovereign absolute monarchy is a federation of seven emirates consisting of Abu Dhabi (which serves as the capital), Ajman, Dubai, Fujairah, Ras al-Khaimah, Sharjah and Umm al-Quwain. Each emirate is governed by a ruler; together, they jointly form the Federal Supreme Council. One of the rulers serves as the President of the United Arab Emirates. In 2013, the UAE's population was 9.2 million, of which 1.4 million are Emirati citizens and 7.8 million are expatriates. \n\nHuman occupation of the present UAE has been traced back to the emergence of anatomically modern humans from Africa some 125,000 BCE through finds at the Faya-1 site in Mleiha, Sharjah. Burial sites dating back to the Neolithic Age and the Bronze Age include the oldest known such inland site at Jebel Buhais. Following decades of maritime conflict, the coastal emirates became known as the Trucial States with the signing of a Perpetual Treaty of Maritime Peace with the British in 1819 (ratified in 1853 and again in 1892), which established the Trucial States as a British Protectorate. This arrangement ended with independence and the establishment of the United Arab Emirates on 2 December 1971, immediately following the British withdrawal from its treaty obligations. Six emirates joined the UAE in 1971, the seventh, Ras al-Khaimah, joined the federation on 10 February 1972.\n\nIslam is the official religion and Arabic is the official language of the UAE. The UAE's oil reserves are the seventh-largest in the world while its natural gas reserves are the world's seventeenth-largest. Sheikh Zayed, ruler of Abu Dhabi and the first President of the UAE, oversaw the development of the Emirates and steered oil revenues into healthcare, education and infrastructure. The UAE's economy is the most diversified in the Gulf Cooperation Council, while its most populous city of Dubai is an important global city and an international aviation and maritime trade hub. Nevertheless, the country is much less reliant on oil and gas than in previous years and is economically focusing on tourism and business. The UAE government does not levy income tax although there is a system of corporate tax in place and value added tax was established in 2018 at 5%. \n\nThe UAE's rising international profile has led to it being recognised as a regional and middle power. It is a member of the United Nations, the Arab League, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, OPEC, the Non-Aligned Movement and the Gulf Cooperation Council.\n\nThe land of the Emirates has been occupied for thousands of years. Stone tools recovered from Jebel Faya in the emirate of Sharjah reveal a settlement of people from Africa some 127,000 years ago and a stone tool used for butchering animals discovered at Jebel Barakah on the Arabian coast suggests an even older habitation from 130,000 years ago. There is no proof of contact with the outside world at that stage, although in time lively trading links developed with civilisations in Mesopotamia, Iran and India's Harappan culture. This contact persisted and became wide-ranging, probably motivated by the trade in copper from the Hajar Mountains, which commenced around 3000 BCE. Sumerian sources talk of the UAE as home to the 'Makkan' or Magan people.\n\nThere are six major periods of human settlement with distinctive behaviours in the pre-Islamic UAE: the Hafit period from 3200-2600 BCE; the Umm Al Nar culture spanned from 2600-2000 BCE, the Wadi Suq people dominated from 2000–1300 BCE. From 1200 BC to the advent of Islam in Eastern Arabia, through three distinctive iron ages (Iron age 1, 1200–1000 BC; Iron age 2, 1000–600 BC and Iron age 3 600–300 BC) and the Mleiha period (300 BC onward), the area was variously occupied by Archaemenid and other forces and saw the construction of fortified settlements and extensive husbandry thanks to the development of the falaj irrigation system.\n\nIn ancient times, Al Hasa (today's Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia) was part of Al Bahreyn and adjoined Greater Oman (today's UAE and Oman). From the second century AD, there was a movement of tribes from Al Bahreyn towards the lower Gulf, together with a migration among the Azdite Qahtani (or Yamani) and Quda'ah tribal groups from south-west Arabia towards central Oman. Sassanid groups were present on the Batinah coast. In 637, Julfar (in the area of today's Ra's al-Khaimah) was an important port that was used as a staging post for the Islamic invasion of the Sassanian Empire. The area of the Al Ain/Buraimi Oasis was known as Tu'am and was an important trading post for camel routes between the coast and the Arabian interior.\n\nThe earliest Christian site in the UAE was first discovered in the 1990s, an extensive monastic complex on what is now known as Sir Bani Yas Island and which dates back to the 7th century. Thought to be Nestorian and built in 600 AD, the church appears to have been abandoned peacefully in 750 AD. It forms a rare physical link to a legacy of Christianity which is thought to have spread across the peninsula from 50 to 350 AD following trade routes. Certainly, by the 5th century, Oman had a bishop named John – the last bishop of Oman being Etienne, in 676 AD.\n\nThe spread of Islam to the North Eastern tip of the Arabian Peninsula is thought to have followed directly from a letter sent by the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, to the rulers of Oman in 630 AD, nine years after the hijrah. This led to a group of rulers travelling to Medina, converting to Islam and subsequently driving a successful uprising against the unpopular Sassanids, who dominated the Northern coasts at the time. Following the death of Muhammad, the new Islamic communities south of the Persian Gulf threatened to disintegrate, with insurrections against the Muslim leaders. The Caliph Abu Bakr sent an army from the capital Medina which completed its reconquest of the territory (the Ridda Wars) with the battle of Dibba in which 10,000 lives are thought to have been lost. This assured the integrity of the Caliphate and the unification of the Arabian Peninsula under the newly emerging Rashidun Caliphate.\n\nThe harsh desert environment led to the emergence of the \"versatile tribesman\", nomadic groups who subsisted due to a variety of economic activities, including animal husbandry, agriculture and hunting. The seasonal movements of these groups led to not only frequent clashes between groups but also the establishment of seasonal and semi-seasonal settlements and centres. These formed tribal groupings whose names are still carried by modern Emiratis, including the Bani Yas and Al Bu Falah of Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, Liwa and the west coast, the Dhawahir, Awamir, Al Ali and Manasir of the interior, the Sharqiyin of the east coast and the Qawasim to the North.\n\nBy the 16th century, ports in the Persian Gulf and part of the population that today form the coastal Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, came under the direct influence of the Ottoman Empire. At the same time, the Portuguese, English and Dutch colonial forces also appeared in the Persian Gulf region. By the 17th century, the Bani Yas confederation was the dominant force in most of the area now known as Abu Dhabi. The Portuguese maintained an influence over the coastal settlements, building forts in the wake of the bloody 16th-century conquests of coastal communities by Albuquerque and the Portuguese commanders who followed him – particularly on the east coast at Muscat, Sohar and Khor Fakkan.\n\nThe southern coast of the Persian Gulf was known to the British as the \"Pirate Coast\", as boats of the Al Qawasim (Al Qasimi) federation based in the area harassed British-flagged shipping from the 17th century into the 19th. The charge of piracy is disputed by modern Emirati historians, including the current Ruler of Sharjah, Sheikh Sultan Al Qasimi, in his 1986 book \"The Myth of Arab Piracy in the Gulf\".\n\nBritish expeditions to protect the Indian trade from raiders at Ras al-Khaimah led to campaigns against that headquarters and other harbours along the coast in 1809 and subsequently 1819. The following year, Britain and a number of local rulers signed a treaty to combat piracy along the Persian Gulf coast, giving rise to the term Trucial States, which came to define the status of the coastal emirates. A further treaty was signed in 1843 and, in 1853 the Perpetual Treaty of Maritime Truce was agreed. To this was added the 'Exclusive Agreements', signed in 1892, which made the Trucial States a British protectorate.\n\nUnder the 1892 treaty, the trucial sheikhs agreed not to dispose of any territory except to the British and not to enter into relationships with any foreign government other than the British without their consent. In return, the British promised to protect the Trucial Coast from all aggression by sea and to help in case of land attack. The Exclusive Agreement was signed by the Rulers of Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Ras Al Khaimah and Umm Al Quwain between 6 and 8 March 1892. It was subsequently ratified by the Viceroy of India and the British Government in London. British maritime policing meant that pearling fleets could operate in relative security. However, the British prohibition of the slave trade meant an important source of income was lost to some sheikhs and merchants. \n\nIn 1869, the Qubaisat tribe settled at Khawr al Udayd and tried to enlist the support of the Ottomans, whose flag was occasionally seen flying there. Khawr al Udayd was claimed by Abu Dhabi at that time, a claim supported by the British. In 1906, the British Political Resident, Percy Cox, confirmed in writing to the ruler of Abu Dhabi, Zayed bin Khalifa Al Nahyan ('Zayed the Great') that Khawr al Udayd belonged to his sheikhdom.\n\nDuring the 19th and early 20th centuries, the pearling industry thrived, providing both income and employment to the people of the Persian Gulf. The First World War had a severe impact on the industry, but it was the economic depression of the late 1920s and early 1930s, coupled with the invention of the cultured pearl, that wiped out the trade. The remnants of the trade eventually faded away shortly after the Second World War, when the newly independent Government of India imposed heavy taxation on pearls imported from the Arab states of the Persian Gulf. The decline of pearling resulted in extreme economic hardship in the Trucial States.\n\nIn 1922, the British government secured undertakings from the rulers of the Trucial States not to sign concessions with foreign companies without their consent. Aware of the potential for the development of natural resources such as oil, following finds in Persia (from 1908) and Mesopotamia (from 1927), a British-led oil company, the Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC), showed an interest in the region. The Anglo-Persian Oil Company (APOC, later to become British Petroleum, or BP) had a 23.75% share in IPC. From 1935, onshore concessions to explore for oil were granted by local rulers, with APOC signing the first one on behalf of Petroleum Concessions Ltd (PCL), an associate company of IPC. APOC was prevented from developing the region alone because of the restrictions of the Red Line Agreement, which required it to operate through IPC. A number of options between PCL and the trucial rulers were signed, providing useful revenue for communities experiencing poverty following the collapse of the pearl trade. However, the wealth of oil which the rulers could see from the revenues accruing to surrounding countries such as Iran, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and Saudi Arabia remained elusive. The first bore holes in Abu Dhabi were drilled by IPC's operating company, Petroleum Development (Trucial Coast) Ltd (PDTC) at Ras Sadr in 1950, with a bore hole taking a year to drill and turning out dry, at the tremendous cost at the time of £1 million.\nThe British set up a development office that helped in some small developments in the emirates. The seven sheikhs of the emirates then decided to form a council to coordinate matters between them and took over the development office. In 1952, they formed the Trucial States Council, and appointed Adi Bitar, Dubai's Sheikh Rashid's legal advisor, as Secretary General and Legal Advisor to the Council. The council was terminated once the United Arab Emirates was formed. The tribal nature of society and the lack of definition of borders between emirates frequently led to disputes, settled either through mediation or, more rarely, force. The Trucial Oman Scouts was a small military force used by the British to keep the peace.\n\nIn 1953, a subsidiary of BP, D'Arcy Exploration Ltd, obtained an offshore concession from the ruler of Abu Dhabi. BP joined with Compagnie Française des Pétroles (later Total) to form operating companies, Abu Dhabi Marine Areas Ltd (ADMA) and Dubai Marine Areas Ltd (DUMA). A number of undersea oil surveys were carried out, including one led by the famous marine explorer Jacques Cousteau. In 1958, a floating platform rig was towed from Hamburg, Germany, and positioned over the Umm Shaif pearl bed, in Abu Dhabi waters, where drilling began. In March, it struck oil in the Upper Thamama, a rock formation that would provide many valuable oil finds. This was the first commercial discovery of the Trucial Coast, leading to the first exports of oil in 1962. ADMA made further offshore discoveries at Zakum and elsewhere, and other companies made commercial finds such as the Fateh oilfield off Dubai and the Mubarak field off Sharjah (shared with Iran).\n\nMeanwhile, onshore exploration was hindered by territorial disputes. In 1955, the United Kingdom represented Abu Dhabi and Oman in their dispute with Saudi Arabia over the Buraimi Oasis. A 1974 agreement between Abu Dhabi and Saudi Arabia seemed to have settled the Abu Dhabi-Saudi border dispute, but this has not been ratified. The UAE's border with Oman was ratified in 2008.\n\nPDTC continued its onshore exploration away from the disputed area, drilling five more bore holes that were also dry. However, on 27 October 1960, the company discovered oil in commercial quantities at the Murban No. 3 well on the coast near Tarif. In 1962, PDTC became the Abu Dhabi Petroleum Company. As oil revenues increased, the ruler of Abu Dhabi, Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, undertook a massive construction program, building schools, housing, hospitals and roads. When Dubai's oil exports commenced in 1969, Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai, was able to invest the revenues from the limited reserves found to spark the diversification drive that would create the modern global city of Dubai.\n\nBy 1966, it had become clear the British government could no longer afford to administer and protect what is now the United Arab Emirates. British MPs debated the preparedness of the Royal Navy to defend the sheikhdoms. Secretary of State for Defence Denis Healey reported that the British Armed Forces were seriously overstretched and in some respects dangerously under-equipped to defend the sheikhdoms. On 24 January 1968, British Prime Minister Harold Wilson announced the government's decision, reaffirmed in March 1971 by Prime Minister Edward Heath to end the treaty relationships with the seven Trucial Sheikhdoms, that had been, together with Bahrain and Qatar, under British protection. Days after the announcement, the ruler of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, fearing vulnerability, tried to persuade the British to honour the protection treaties by offering to pay the full costs of keeping the British Armed Forces in the Emirates. The British Labour government rejected the offer. After Labour MP Goronwy Roberts informed Sheikh Zayed of the news of British withdrawal, the nine Persian Gulf sheikhdoms attempted to form a union of Arab emirates, but by mid-1971 they were still unable to agree on terms of union even though the British treaty relationship was to expire in December of that year.\n\nFears of vulnerability were realized the day before independence. An Iranian destroyer group broke formation from an exercise in the lower Gulf, sailing to the Tunb islands. The islands were taken by force, civilians and Arab defenders alike allowed to flee. A British warship stood idle during the course of the invasion. A destroyer group approached the island Abu Musa as well. But there, Sheikh Khalid bin Mohammed Al Qasimi had already negotiated with the Iranian Shah, and the island was quickly leased to Iran for $3 million a year. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia laid claim to swathes of Abu Dhabi.\n\nOriginally intended to be part of the proposed Federation of Arab Emirates, Bahrain became independent in August, and Qatar in September 1971. When the British-Trucial Sheikhdoms treaty expired on 1 December 1971, they became fully independent. On 2 December 1971, at the Dubai Guesthouse, now known as Union House, six of the emirates agreed to enter into a union called the United Arab Emirates. Ras al-Khaimah joined later, on 10 January 1972. In February 1972, the Federal National Council (FNC) was created; it was a 40-member consultative body appointed by the seven rulers. The UAE joined the Arab League on 6 December 1971 and the United Nations on 9 December. It was a founding member of the Gulf Cooperation Council in May 1981, with Abu Dhabi hosting the first GCC summit. UAE forces joined the allies against Iraq after the invasion of Kuwait in 1990.\n\nThe UAE supported military operations from the US and other coalition nations engaged in the war against the Taliban in Afghanistan (2001) and Saddam Hussein in Iraq (2003) as well as operations supporting the Global War on Terror for the Horn of Africa at Al Dhafra Air Base located outside of Abu Dhabi. The air base also supported Allied operations during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and Operation Northern Watch. The country had already signed a military defense agreement with the U.S. in 1994 and one with France in 1995. In January 2008, France and the UAE signed a deal allowing France to set up a permanent military base in the emirate of Abu Dhabi. The UAE joined international military operations in Libya in March 2011.\nOn 2 November 2004, the UAE's first president, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, died. His eldest son, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, succeeded as Emir of Abu Dhabi. In accordance with the constitution, the UAE's Supreme Council of Rulers elected Khalifa as president. Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan succeeded Khalifa as Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi. In January 2006, Sheikh Maktoum bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the prime minister of the UAE and the ruler of Dubai, died, and the crown prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum assumed both roles.\n\nThe first ever national elections were held in the UAE on 16 December 2006. A small number of hand-picked voters chose half of the members of the Federal National Council, an advisory body. The UAE has largely escaped the Arab Spring, which other countries have experienced; however, more than 100 Emirati activists were jailed and tortured because they sought reforms. Furthermore, some people have had their nationality revoked. Mindful of the protests in nearby Bahrain, in November 2012 the UAE outlawed online mockery of its own government or attempts to organise public protests through social media.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates is situated in Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf, between Oman and Saudi Arabia; it is in a strategic location slightly south of the Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil.\n\nThe UAE lies between 22°30' and 26°10' north latitude and between 51° and 56°25′ east longitude. It shares a border with Saudi Arabia on the west, south, and southeast, and a border with Oman on the southeast and northeast. The land border with Qatar in the Khawr al Udayd area is about in the northwest; however, it is a source of ongoing dispute. Following Britain's military departure from the UAE in 1971, and its establishment as a new state, the UAE laid claim to islands resulting in disputes with Iran that remain unresolved. The UAE also disputes claim on other islands against the neighboring state of Qatar. The largest emirate, Abu Dhabi, accounts for 87% of the UAE's total area (). The smallest emirate, Ajman, encompasses only (see figure).\n\nThe UAE coast stretches for more than along the southern shore of the Persian Gulf. Most of the coast consists of salt pans that extend far inland. The largest natural harbor is at Dubai, although other ports have been dredged at Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, and elsewhere. Numerous islands are found in the Persian Gulf, and the ownership of some of them has been the subject of international disputes with both Iran and Qatar. The smaller islands, as well as many coral reefs and shifting sandbars, are a menace to navigation. Strong tides and occasional windstorms further complicate ship movements near the shore. The UAE also has a stretch of the Al Bāţinah coast of the Gulf of Oman, although the Musandam Peninsula, the very tip of Arabia by the Strait of Hormuz, is an exclave of Oman separated by the UAE.\n\nSouth and west of Abu Dhabi, vast, rolling sand dunes merge into the Rub al-Khali (Empty Quarter) of Saudi Arabia. The desert area of Abu Dhabi includes two important oases with adequate underground water for permanent settlements and cultivation. The extensive Liwa Oasis is in the south near the undefined border with Saudi Arabia. About to the northeast of Liwa is the Al-Buraimi oasis, which extends on both sides of the Abu Dhabi-Oman border. Lake Zakher is a human-made lake near the border with Oman.\n\nPrior to withdrawing from the area in 1971, Britain delineated the internal borders among the seven emirates in order to preempt territorial disputes that might hamper formation of the federation. In general, the rulers of the emirates accepted the British intervention, but in the case of boundary disputes between Abu Dhabi and Dubai, and also between Dubai and Sharjah, conflicting claims were not resolved until after the UAE became independent. The most complicated borders were in the Al-Hajar al-Gharbi Mountains, where five of the emirates contested jurisdiction over more than a dozen enclaves.\n\nThe oases grow date palms, acacia and eucalyptus trees. In the desert, the flora is very sparse and consists of grasses and thorn bushes. The indigenous fauna had come close to extinction because of intensive hunting, which has led to a conservation program on Bani Yas Island initiated by Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan in the 1970s, resulting in the survival of, for example, Arabian Oryx, Arabian camel and leopards. Coastal fish and mammals consist mainly of mackerel, perch, and tuna, as well as sharks and whales.\n\nThe climate of the UAE is subtropical-arid with hot summers and warm winters. The hottest months are July and August, when average maximum temperatures reach above on the coastal plain. In the Al Hajar Mountains, temperatures are considerably lower, a result of increased elevation. Average minimum temperatures in January and February are between . During the late summer months, a humid southeastern wind known as Sharqi (i.e. \"Easterner\") makes the coastal region especially unpleasant. The average annual rainfall in the coastal area is less than , but in some mountainous areas annual rainfall often reaches . Rain in the coastal region falls in short, torrential bursts during the summer months, sometimes resulting in floods in ordinarily dry wadi beds. The region is prone to occasional, violent dust storms, which can severely reduce visibility.\n\nOn 28 December 2004, there was snow recorded in the UAE for the very first time, in the Jebel Jais mountain cluster in Ras al-Khaimah. A few years later, there were more sightings of snow and hail. The Jebel Jais mountain cluster has experienced snow only twice since records began.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates is a federation of hereditary absolute monarchies. It is governed by a Federal Supreme Council made up of the seven emirs of Abu Dhabi, Ajman, Fujairah, Sharjah, Dubai, Ras al-Khaimah and Umm al-Qaiwain. All responsibilities not granted to the national government are reserved to the emirates. A percentage of revenues from each emirate is allocated to the UAE's central budget.\n\nAlthough elected by the Supreme Council, the presidency and prime ministership are essentially hereditary; the Emir of Abu Dhabi holds the presidency, and the Emir of Dubai is prime minister. All prime ministers but one have served concurrently as vice president. Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan was the UAE's president from the nation's founding until his death on 2 November 2004. On the following day the Federal Supreme Council elected his son, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, to the post. Abu Dhabi's crown prince, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, is the heir apparent.\n\nThe UAE convened a half-elected Federal National Council in 2006. The FNC consists of 40 members drawn from all the emirates. Half are appointed by the rulers of the constituent emirates, and the other half are indirectly elected to serve two-year terms. However, the FNC is restricted to a largely consultative role. The UAE eGovernment is the extension of the UAE Federal Government in its electronic form. On 10 February 2016, 22-year-old Oxford and NYU-Abu Dhabi graduate Shamma Al Mazrui was named Minister of State for Youth Affairs, the youngest minister in the cabinet. Shaikh Mohammed noted that as head of the Youth Council, Al Mazrui will \"represent the hopes of our youth\".\n\nThe UAE is frequently described as an \"autocracy\". According to the \"New York Times\", the UAE is \"an autocracy with the sheen of a progressive, modern state\". The UAE ranks poorly in freedom indices measuring civil liberties and political rights. The UAE is annually ranked as \"Not Free\" in Freedom House's annual Freedom in the World report, which measures civil liberties and political rights. The UAE also ranks poorly in the annual Reporters without Borders' Press Freedom Index.\n\nAl Nahyan family, one of the six ruling families of the United Arab Emirates, is believed to have a fortune of $150 billion collectively as a family.\n\nThe UAE has extensive diplomatic and commercial relations with other countries. It plays a significant role in OPEC and the UN, and is one of the founding members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). One of the main anchorers of the UAE’s foreign policy has been building cooperation-based relations with all countries of the world. Substantial development assistance has increased the UAE's stature among recipient states. Most of this foreign aid (in excess of $15 billion) has been to Arab and Muslim countries.\n\nThe UAE has long maintained close relations with Egypt and is Egypt's largest investor from the Arab world. Pakistan was the first country to formally recognize the UAE upon its formation and continues to be one of its major economic and trading partners; about 400,000 Pakistani expatriates are employed in the UAE. The UAE and China have been strong international allies, with significant cooperation across economic, political and cultural aspects. The largest expatriate presence in the UAE is Indian. Following British withdrawal from the UAE in 1971 and the establishment of the UAE as a state, the UAE disputed rights to a islands in the Persian Gulf against Iran, namely Abu Musa, Greater Tunb, and Lesser Tunb. The UAE went so far as to bring the matter to the United Nations, but the case was dismissed. The dispute has not significantly impacted relations because of the large Iranian community presence and strong economic ties.\n\nCommercially, the UK and Germany are the UAE's largest export markets and bilateral relations have long been close as a large number of their nationals reside in the UAE. Diplomatic relations between the UAE and Japan were established as early as the UAE's independence in December 1971. The two countries had always enjoyed friendly ties and trade between each other. Exports from the UAE to Japan include crude oil and natural gas and imports from Japan to the UAE include cars and electric items.\nThe UAE was one of only three countries to recognise the Taliban as Afghanistan's legitimate government (Pakistan and Saudi Arabia were the other two countries). At the encouragement of the United States, the UAE attempted to host a Taliban embassy under three conditions which include denouncing Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, recognizing the Afghan constitution, and renouncing violence and laying down their weapons. The Taliban refused all three conditions, and the UAE withdrew its offer. The UAE rescinded diplomatic relations with the Taliban after 11 September attacks in 2001 (alongside Pakistan). \n\nIn 2013, The UAE spent more than any other country in the world to influence U.S. policy and shape domestic debate by funding former high-level government officials who worked with it to carry out its agenda within the U.S. Tony Blair serves as a funded adviser to the Mubadala Development Company, a wholly owned investment vehicle of the government of Abu Dhabi.\n\nIn its dispute with the United States and Israel, Iran has repeatedly threatened to close the strait at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, a vital oil-trade route. Therefore, in July 2012, the UAE began operating a key overland oil pipeline, the Habshan–Fujairah oil pipeline, which bypasses the Strait of Hormuz in order to mitigate any consequences of an Iranian shut-off.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates has been actively involved in Saudi-led intervention in Yemen and has supported Yemen's internationally recognized government as well as the separatist Southern Transitional Council in Yemen against the Houthi takeover in Yemen and Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. An Associated press report implicated that the United Arab Emirates made gains against Al Qaeda in Yemen by making payments and recruiting them in fighting the Houthis, instead of military intervention. The notion of the UAE recruiting or paying AQAP has been thoroughly denied by the United States Pentagon with Colonel Robert Manning, spokesperson of the Pentagon, calling the news source \"patently false\".\n\nThe UAE has been notable for its improved enforcement of the charcoal ban by importing countries, which had created an identifiable deterrent effect on charcoal exporters in Somalia as at May 2016, cutting funding to terror organizations such as Al-Shabaab. \n\nIn June 2017, the UAE alongside multiple middle eastern and African countries cut diplomatic ties with Qatar due to allegations of Qatar being a state sponsor of terrorism, resulting in the Qatar diplomatic crisis.\nIn August 2018, the New York Times published a report claiming that the United Arab Emirates rulers had been using an Israeli spyware to secretly tap the phone calls of Qatari emir, a Saudi Arabian prince, Saad Hariri, prime minister of Lebanon and some journalists.\n\nAs a result of the successful foreign policy of the United Arab Emirates, the Emirati passport became the largest individual climber in Henley & Partners Passport Index in 2018 over the past decade, increasing its global rank by 28 places. The UAE passport currently ranks in the top 10 most powerful passports in the world, and ranks the 1st in the middle east in terms of visa free restrictions.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates Armed Forces is commonly nicknamed as \"Little Sparta\" by United States Armed Forces Generals and US defense secretary James Mattis due to its active and effective military role, particular in War on Terrorism, despite its small active personnel.\n\nFrance and the United States have played the most strategically significant roles with defence cooperation agreements and military material provision. The UAE discussed with France the possibility of a purchase of 60 Rafale fighter aircraft in January 2013. The UAE operates the General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon F-16E Block 60 unique variant, developed specifically for the United Arab Emirates Air Force.\nThe UAE helped the US launch its first air offensive against Islamic State targets in Syria.\n\nAlthough initially small in number, the UAE armed forces have grown significantly over the years and are presently equipped with some of the most modern weapon systems, purchased from a variety of outside countries, mainly France, the US and the UK. Most officers are graduates of the United Kingdom's Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst, with others having attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Royal Military College, Duntroon, and St Cyr, the military academy of France. France opened its base installation Forces de présence aux Emirats arabes unis in Abu Dhabi in May 2009. In March 2011, the UAE agreed to join the enforcement of the no-fly-zone over Libya by sending six F-16 and six Mirage 2000 multi-role fighter aircraft. During the Gulf war, the US had troops and equipment stationed in the UAE as well as other parts of the Persian Gulf.\n\nIn 2015, the UAE participated in the Saudi Arabian-led military intervention in Yemen against the Houthi takeover in Yemen. The UAE has reportedly bought American weapons and F-16 fighter jets through offset payments which were channelled to DC thinktanks such as the Middle East Institute.\n\nOn Friday 4 September 2015, 52 soldiers from the United Arab Emirates were killed in Marib area of central Yemen by a Houthi missile which targeted a weapons cache and caused a large explosion, marking the largest lost of life in the military history of United Arab Emirates Armed Forces. The Houthis claimed responsibility for the attack using a Tochka missile.\n\nAccording to SIPRI, between 2012 and 2016, the UAE was the 3rd largest importer of arms among countries in the world. Norway has suspended any kind of arms exports to the UAE due its involvement in Yemen War.\n\nIn 2016 Battle of Mukalla, the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces liberated the port of Mukalla from AQAP forces in 36 hours after being held by AQAP for more than a year with the US defense secretary James Mattis calling the UAE led operation a model for American troops. However, in 2018, the Associated Press in a report mentioned that the UAE struck deals with AQAP militants by recruiting them against fighting the Houthis and providing them with money. The report continued to state that the United States was aware of Al-Qaeda joining ranks with the UAE and has held off drone strikes against Al-Qaeda. The notion of Al Qaeda joining ranks with UAE Armed Forces and the US holding off drone strikes against Al Qaeda has been thoroughly denied by The Pentagon with Colonel Robert Manning, spokesperson of the Pentagon, calling the news source \"patently false\".\n\nOn 30 April 2018 the UAE armed forces, as part of the ongoing Saudi-led intervention in Yemen, landed troops on the island of Socotra. The Independent newspaper reported that the UAE has politically annexed the island and built a communications network, as well as conducted census and provided Socotra residents with free healthcare and work permits in Abu Dhabi. Two weeks later on 14 May, Saudi troops were also deployed to the archipelago and a deal was brokered between the United Arab Emirates and Yemen for a joint military training exercise and the return of administrative control of Socotra's airport and seaport to Yemen.\n\n \nThe United Arab Emirates is divided into seven emirates. Dubai is the most populated Emirate with 35.6% of the UAE population. The Emirate of Abu Dhabi has a further 31.2%, meaning that over two-thirds of the UAE population live in either Abu Dhabi or Dubai.\n\nAbu Dhabi has an area of , which is 86.7% of the country's total area, excluding the islands. It has a coastline extending for more than and is divided for administrative purposes into three major regions.\nThe Emirate of Dubai extends along the Persian Gulf coast of the UAE for approximately . Dubai has an area of , which is equivalent to 5% of the country's total area, excluding the islands. The Emirate of Sharjah extends along approximately of the UAE's Persian Gulf coastline and for more than into the interior. The northern emirates which include Fujairah, Ajman, Ras al-Khaimah, and Umm al-Qaiwain all have a total area of . There are two areas under joint control. One is jointly controlled by Oman and Ajman, the other by Fujairah and Sharjah.\n\nThere is an Omani exclave surrounded by UAE territory, known as Wadi Madha. It is located halfway between the Musandam peninsula and the rest of Oman in the Emirate of Sharjah. It covers approximately and the boundary was settled in 1969. The north-east corner of Madha is closest to the Khor Fakkan-Fujairah road, barely away. Within the Omani exclave of Madha, is a UAE exclave called Nahwa, also belonging to the Emirate of Sharjah. It is about on a dirt track west of the town of New Madha. It consists of about forty houses with its own clinic and telephone exchange.\n\nThe UAE has a federal court system. There are three main branches within the court structure: civil, criminal and Sharia law. The UAE's judicial system is derived from the civil law system and Sharia law. The court system consists of civil courts and Sharia courts. UAE's criminal and civil courts apply elements of Sharia law, codified into its criminal code and family law.\n\nFlogging is a punishment for criminal offences such as adultery, premarital sex and alcohol consumption. According to Sharia court rulings, flogging ranges from 80 to 200 lashes. Verbal abuse pertaining to a person's honour is illegal and punishable by 80 lashes. Between 2007 and 2014, many people in the UAE were sentenced to 100 lashes. More recently in 2015, two men were sentenced to 80 lashes for hitting and insulting a woman. In 2014, an expatriate in Abu Dhabi was sentenced to 10 years in prison and 80 lashes after alcohol consumption and raping a toddler. Alcohol consumption for Muslims is illegal and punishable by 80 lashes; many Muslims have been sentenced to 80 lashes for alcohol consumption. Sometimes 40 lashes are given. Illicit sex is sometimes penalized by 60 lashes. 80 lashes is the standard number for anyone sentenced to flogging in several emirates. Sharia courts have penalized domestic workers with floggings. In October 2013, a Filipino housemaid was sentenced to 100 lashes for illegitimate pregnancy. Drunk-driving is strictly illegal and punishable by 80 lashes; many expatriates have been sentenced to 80 lashes for drunk-driving. In Abu Dhabi, people have been sentenced to 80 lashes for kissing in public. Under UAE law, premarital sex is punishable by 100 lashes.\n\nStoning is a legal punishment in the UAE. In May 2014, an Asian housemaid was sentenced to death by stoning in Abu Dhabi. Other expatriates have been sentenced to death by stoning for committing adultery. Between 2009 and 2013, several people were sentenced to death by stoning. Abortion is illegal and punishable by a maximum penalty of 100 lashes and up to five years in prison. In recent years, several people have retracted their guilty plea in illicit sex cases after being sentenced to stoning or 100 lashes. The punishment for committing adultery is 100 lashes for unmarried people and stoning to death for married people.\n\nSharia courts have exclusive jurisdiction over family law cases and also have jurisdiction over several criminal cases including adultery, premarital sex, robbery, alcohol consumption and related crimes. The Sharia-based personal status law regulates matters such as marriage, divorce and child custody. The Islamic personal status law is applied to Muslims and sometimes non-Muslims. Non-Muslim expatriates can be liable to Sharia rulings on marriage, divorce and child custody.\n\nApostasy is a crime punishable by death in the UAE. Blasphemy is illegal; expatriates involved in insulting Islam are liable for deportation. UAE incorporates hudud crimes of Sharia (i.e., crimes against God) into its Penal Code – apostasy being one of them. Article 1 and Article 66 of UAE's Penal Code requires hudud crimes to be punished with the death penalty; therefore, apostasy is punishable by death in the UAE.\n\nIn several cases, the courts of the UAE have jailed women who have reported rape. For example, a British woman, after she reported being gang raped by three men, was charged with the crime of \"alcohol consumption\". Another British woman was charged with \"public intoxication and extramarital sex\" after she reported being raped, while an Australian woman was similarly sentenced to jail after she reported gang rape in the UAE. In another recent case, an 18-year Emirati woman withdrew her complaint of gang rape by six men when the prosecution threatened her with a long jail term and flogging. The woman still had to serve one year in jail. In July 2013, a Norwegian woman, Marte Dalelv, reported rape to the police and received a prison sentence for \"illicit sex and alcohol consumption\".\n\nEmirati women must receive permission from a male guardian to marry and remarry. This requirement is derived from the UAE's interpretation of Sharia, and has been federal law since 2005. In all emirates, it is illegal for Muslim women to marry non-Muslims. In the UAE, a marriage union between a Muslim woman and non-Muslim man is punishable by law, since it is considered a form of \"fornication\".\n\nKissing in public is illegal and can result in deportation. Expats in Dubai have been deported for kissing in public. In Abu Dhabi, people have been sentenced to 80 lashes for kissing in public. A new federal law in the UAE prohibits swearing in Whatsapp and penalizes swearing by a $68,061 fine and imprisonment; expatriates are penalized by deportation. In July 2015, an Australian expatriate was deported for swearing on Facebook.\n\nHomosexuality is illegal and is a capital offence in the UAE. In 2013, an Emirati man was on trial for being accused of a \"gay handshake\". Article 80 of the Abu Dhabi Penal Code makes sodomy punishable with imprisonment of up to 14 years, while article 177 of the Penal Code of Dubai imposes imprisonment of up to 10 years on consensual sodomy.\n\nAmputation is a legal punishment in the UAE due to the Sharia courts. Crucifixion is a legal punishment in the UAE. Article 1 of the Federal Penal Code states that \"provisions of the Islamic Law shall apply to the crimes of doctrinal punishment, punitive punishment and blood money.\" The Federal Penal Code repealed only those provisions within the penal codes of individual emirates which are contradictory to the Federal Penal Code. Hence, both are enforceable simultaneously.\n\nDuring the month of Ramadan, it is illegal to publicly eat, drink, or smoke between sunrise and sunset. Exceptions are made for pregnant women and children. The law applies to both Muslims and non-Muslims, and failure to comply may result in arrest. Dancing in public is illegal in the UAE.\n\nFlogging and stoning are legal punishments in the UAE. The requirement is derived from Sharia law, and has been federal law since 2005. Some domestic workers in the UAE are victims of the country's interpretations of Sharia judicial punishments such as flogging and stoning. The annual Freedom House report on Freedom in the World has listed the United Arab Emirates as \"Not Free\" every year since 1999, the first year for which records are available on their website.\n\nThe UAE has escaped the Arab Spring; however, more than 100 Emirati activists were jailed and tortured because they sought reforms. Since 2011, the UAE government has increasingly carried out forced disappearances. Many foreign nationals and Emirati citizens have been arrested and abducted by the state. The UAE government denies these people are being held (to conceal their whereabouts), placing these people outside the protection of the law. According to Human Rights Watch, the reports of forced disappearance and torture in the UAE are of grave concern.\n\nThe Arab Organization for Human Rights has obtained testimonies from many defendants, for its report on \"Forced Disappearance and Torture in the UAE\", who reported that they had been kidnapped, tortured and abused in detention centres. The report included 16 different methods of torture including severe beatings, threats with electrocution and denying access to medical care.\n\nIn 2013, 94 Emirati activists were held in secret detention centres and put on trial for allegedly attempting to overthrow the government. Human rights organizations have spoken out against the secrecy of the trial. An Emirati, whose father is among the defendants, was arrested for tweeting about the trial. In April 2013, he was sentenced to 10 months in jail. The latest forced disappearance involves three sisters from Abu Dhabi.\n\nRepressive measures were also used against non-Emiratis in order to justify the UAE government's claim that there is an \"international plot\" in which UAE citizens and foreigners were working together to destabilize the country. Foreign nationals were also subjected to a campaign of deportations. There are many documented cases of Egyptians and other foreign nationals who had spent years working in the UAE and were then given only a few days to leave the country.\n\nForeign nationals subjected to forced disappearance include two Libyans and two Qataris. Amnesty reported that the Qatari men have been abducted by the UAE government and the UAE government has withheld information about the men's fate from their families. Amongst the foreign nationals detained, imprisoned and expelled is Iyad El-Baghdadi, a popular blogger and Twitter personality. He was arrested by UAE authorities, detained, imprisoned and then expelled from the country. Despite his lifetime residence in the UAE, as a Palestinian citizen, El-Baghdadi had no recourse to contest this order. He could not be deported back to the Palestinian territories, therefore he was deported to Malaysia.\n\nIn 2007, the UAE government attempted to cover up information on the rape of a French teenage boy by three Emirati locals, one of whose HIV-positive status was hidden by Emirati authorities. Diplomatic pressure led to the arrest and conviction of the Emirati rapists.\n\nIn April 2009, a video tape of torture smuggled out of the UAE showed Sheikh Issa bin Zayed Al Nahyan torturing a man (Mohammed Shah Poor) with whips, electric cattle prods, wooden planks with protruding nails and running him over repeatedly with a car. In December 2009, Issa appeared in court and proclaimed his innocence. The trial ended on 10 January 2010, when Issa was cleared of the torture of Mohammed Shah Poor. Human Rights Watch criticised the trial and called on the government to establish an independent body to investigate allegations of abuse by UAE security personnel and other persons of authority. The US State Department has expressed concern over the verdict and said all members of Emirati society \"must stand equal before the law\" and called for a careful review of the decision to ensure that the demands of justice are fully met in this case.\n\nIn recent years, a large number of Shia Muslim expatriates have been deported from the UAE. Lebanese Shia families in particular have been deported for their alleged sympathy for Hezbollah. According to some organizations, more than 4,000 Shia expatriates have been deported from the UAE in recent years.\n\nThe issue of sexual abuse among female domestic workers is another area of concern, particularly given that domestic servants are not covered by the UAE labour law of 1980 or the draft labour law of 2007. Worker protests have been suppressed and protesters imprisoned without due process. In its 2013 Annual Report, Amnesty International drew attention to the United Arab Emirates' poor record on a number of human rights issues. They highlighted the government's restrictive approach to freedom of speech and assembly, their use of arbitrary arrest and torture, and UAE's use of the death penalty.\n\nIn 2012, Dubai police subjected three British citizens to beatings and electric shocks after arresting them on drugs charges. The British Prime Minister, David Cameron, expressed \"concern\" over the case and raised it with the UAE President, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, during his 2013 state visit to the UK. The three men were pardoned and released in July 2013.\n\nIn a report released on 12 July 2018, Amnesty International urged for 'war crimes' probe on UAE-run prisons in Yemen.\n\nOn 10 September 2018, Yemeni detainees in a UAE-run prison underwent a hunger strike to protest their detention. Despite orders by the prosecutors to release some of the detained prisoners, the detainees are still being held.\n\nMigrant workers are excluded from the UAE's collective labour rights, hence migrants are vulnerable to forced labour. Migrant workers in the UAE are not allowed to join trade unions. Moreover, migrant workers are banned from going on strike. Dozens of workers were deported in 2014 for going on strike. As migrant workers do not have the right to join a trade union or go on strike, they don't have the means to denounce the exploitation they suffer. Those who protest risk prison and deportation. The International Trade Union Confederation has called on the United Nations to investigate evidence that thousands of migrant workers in the UAE are treated as slave labour.\n\nIn 2013, police arrested a US citizen and some UAE citizens, in connection with a YouTube parody video which allegedly portrayed Dubai and its residents in a bad light. The video was shot in areas of Satwa, Dubai, and featured gangs learning how to fight using simple weapons, including shoes, the aghal, etc. In 2015, nationals from different countries were put in jail for offences. An Australian woman was accused of 'writing bad words on social media', after she had posted a picture of a vehicle parked illegally. She was later deported from the UAE.\nThe State Security Apparatus in the UAE has been accused of a series of atrocities and human rights abuses including enforced disappearance, arbitrary arrests and torture, the latest being the forced disappearance of Turkish businessman Dr Amer Al Shawa on 2 October 2014.\n\nFreedom of association is also severely curtailed. All associations and NGOs have to register through the Ministry of Social Affairs and are therefore under de facto State control. About twenty non-political groups operate on the territory without registration. All associations have to be submitted to censorship guidelines and all publications have first to be approved by the government.\n\nSecret Dubai was an independent blog in Dubai, from 2002 until 2010. It generated a significant following in the Middle East Blogosphere until the UAE's Telecoms Regulatory Authority (TRA) in the UAE blocked the website.\nThe UAE has a modest dress code. The dress code is part of Dubai's criminal law. Most malls in the UAE have a dress code displayed at entrances. At Dubai's malls, women are encouraged to cover their shoulders and knees. But people can wear swimwear at the pools and beaches.\n\nPeople are also requested to wear modest clothing when entering mosques, such as the Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi. Mosques which are open to tourists provide modest clothing for men and women if needed.\n\nThe UAE's media is annually classified as \"not free\" in the Freedom of the Press report by Freedom House. The UAE ranks poorly in the annual Press Freedom Index by Reporters without Borders. Dubai Media City and twofour54 are the UAE's main media zones. The UAE is home to some pan-Arab broadcasters, including the Middle East Broadcasting Centre and Orbit Showtime Network. In 2007, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum decreed that journalists can no longer be prosecuted or imprisoned for reasons relating to their work. At the same time, the UAE has made it illegal to disseminate online material that can threaten \"public order\".\n\nCriticism of the government is not allowed. Criticism of government officials and royal family members is not allowed. Prison terms have been given to those who \"deride or damage\" the reputation of the state and \"display contempt\" for religion. There have been many politically motivated press freedom violations; for example in 2012 a YouTube user was arrested in Dubai for filming and uploading a video of a UAE local (who happened to be a Government official) hitting an overseas worker.\n\nUAE has the second largest economy in the GCC (after Saudi Arabia), with a gross domestic product (GDP) of $377 billion (1.38 trillion AED) in 2012. Since independence in 1971, UAE's economy has grown by nearly 231 times to 1.45 trillion AED in 2013. The non-oil trade has grown to 1.2 trillion AED, a growth by around 28 times from 1981 to 2012. UAE is ranked as the 26th best nation in the world for doing business based on its economy and regulatory environment, ranked by the Doing Business 2017 Report published by the World Bank Group.\n\nAlthough UAE has the most diversified economy in the GCC, the UAE's economy remains extremely reliant on oil. With the exception of Dubai, most of the UAE is dependent on oil revenues. Petroleum and natural gas continue to play a central role in the economy, especially in Abu Dhabi. More than 85% of the UAE's economy was based on the oil exports in 2009. While Abu Dhabi and other UAE emirates have remained relatively conservative in their approach to diversification, Dubai, which has far smaller oil reserves, was bolder in its diversification policy. In 2011, oil exports accounted for 77% of the UAE's state budget. Successful efforts at economic diversification have reduced the portion of GDP based on oil/gas output to 25%.\nDubai suffered from a significant economic crisis in 2007–2010 and was bailed out by Abu Dhabi's oil wealth. Dubai is running a balanced budget, reflecting economic growth. Tourism acts as a growth sector for the entire UAE economy. Dubai is the top tourism destination in the Middle East. According to the annual MasterCard Global Destination Cities Index, Dubai is the fifth most popular tourism destination in the world. Dubai holds up to 66% share of the UAE's tourism economy, with Abu Dhabi having 16% and Sharjah 10%. Dubai welcomed 10 million tourists in 2013.\nThe UAE has the most advanced and developed infrastructure in the region. Since the 1980s, the UAE has been spending billions of dollars on infrastructure. These developments are particularly evident in the larger emirates of Abu Dhabi and Dubai. The northern emirates are rapidly following suit, providing major incentives for developers of residential and commercial property.\nProperty prices in Dubai fell dramatically when Dubai World, the government construction company, sought to delay a debt payment.\n\nUAE law does not allow trade unions to exist. The right to collective bargaining and the right to strike are not recognised, and the Ministry of Labour has the power to force workers to go back to work. Migrant workers who participate in a strike can have their work permits cancelled and be deported. Consequently, there are very few anti-discrimination laws in relation to labour issues, with Emiratis – other GCC Arabs – getting preference in public sector jobs despite lesser credentials than competitors and lower motivation. In fact, just over eighty percent of Emirati workers hold government posts, with many of the rest taking part in state-owned enterprises such as Emirates airlines and Dubai Properties.\n\nDubai International Airport was the busiest airport in the world by international passenger traffic in 2014, overtaking London Heathrow. A country-wide railway is under construction which will connect all the major cities and ports. The Dubai Metro is the first urban train network in the Arabian Peninsula. The major ports of the United Arab Emirates are Khalifa Port, Zayed Port, Port Jebel Ali, Port Rashid, Port Khalid, Port Saeed, and Port Khor Fakkan.\n\nThe UAE is served by two telecommunications operators, Etisalat and Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Company (\"du\"). Etisalat operated a monopoly until du launched mobile services in February 2007. Internet subscribers were expected to increase from 0.904 million in 2007 to 2.66 million in 2012. The regulator, the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority, mandates filtering websites for religious, political and sexual content.\n\nEmirati culture is based on Arabian culture and has been influenced by the cultures of Persia, India, and East Africa. Arabian and Persian inspired architecture is part of the expression of the local Emirati identity. Persian influence on Emirati culture is noticeably visible in traditional Emirati architecture and folk arts. For example, the distinctive wind tower which tops traditional Emirati buildings, the \"barjeel\" has become an identifying mark of Emirati architecture and is attributed to Persian influence. This influence is derived both from traders who fled the tax regime in Persia in the early 19th Century and from Emirati ownership of ports on the Persian coast, for instance the Al Qassimi port of Lingeh.\nThe United Arab Emirates has a diverse society. Major holidays in the United Arab Emirates include \"Eid al Fitr\", which marks the end of \"Ramadan\", and National Day (2 December), which marks the formation of the United Arab Emirates. Emirati males prefer to wear a kandura, an ankle-length white tunic woven from wool or cotton, and Emirati women wear an abaya, a black over-garment that covers most parts of the body.\n\nAncient Emirati poetry was strongly influenced by the 8th-century Arab scholar Al Khalil bin Ahmed. The earliest known poet in the UAE is Ibn Majid, born between 1432 and 1437 in Ras Al-Khaimah. The most famous Emirati writers were Mubarak Al Oqaili (1880–1954), Salem bin Ali al Owais (1887–1959) and Ahmed bin Sulayem (1905–1976). Three other poets from Sharjah, known as the Hirah group, are observed to have been heavily influenced by the Apollo and Romantic poets. The Sharjah International Book Fair is the oldest and largest in the country.\n\nThe list of museums in the United Arab Emirates includes some of regional repute, most famously Sharjah with its Heritage District containing 17 museums, which in 1998 was the Cultural Capital of the Arab World. In Dubai, the area of Al Quoz has attracted a number of art galleries as well as museums such as the Salsali Private Museum. Abu Dhabi has established a culture district on Saadiyat Island. Six grand projects are planned, including the Guggenheim Abu Dhabi and the Louvre Abu Dhabi. Dubai also plans to build a Kunsthal museum and a district for galleries and artists.\n\nEmirati culture is a part of the culture of Eastern Arabia. Liwa is a type of music and dance performed locally, mainly in communities that contain descendants of Bantu peoples from the African Great Lakes region. The Dubai Desert Rock Festival is also another major festival consisting of heavy metal and rock artists. The cinema of the United Arab Emirates is minimal but expanding.\n\nThe traditional food of the Emirates has always been rice, fish and meat. The people of the United Arab Emirates have adopted most of their foods from other West and South Asian countries including Iran, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, India and Oman. Seafood has been the mainstay of the Emirati diet for centuries. Meat and rice are other staple foods, with lamb and mutton preferred to goat and beef. Popular beverages are coffee and tea, which can be complemented with cardamom, saffron, or mint to give them a distinctive flavour. \n\nPopular cultural Emirati dishes include \"threed\", \"machboos\", \"khubisa\", \"khameer\" and \"chabab\" bread among others while Lugaimat is a famous Emirati dessert.\n\nWith the influence of western culture, fast food has become very popular among young people, to the extent that campaigns have been held to highlight the dangers of fast food excesses. Alcohol is allowed to be served only in hotel restaurants and bars. All nightclubs are permitted to sell alcohol. Specific supermarkets may sell alcohol, but these products are sold in separate sections. Likewise, pork, which is haram (not permitted for Muslims), is sold in separate sections in all major supermarkets. Note that although alcohol may be consumed, it is illegal to be intoxicated in public or drive a motor vehicle with any trace of alcohol in the blood.\n\nFormula One is particularly popular in the United Arab Emirates, and is annually held at the Yas Marina Circuit. The race takes place in the evening, and was the first ever Grand Prix to start in daylight and finish at night. Other popular sports include camel racing, falconry, endurance riding, and tennis. The emirate of Dubai is also home to two major golf courses: The Dubai Golf Club and Emirates Golf Club.\n\nIn the past, child camel jockeys were used, leading to widespread criticism. Eventually the UAE passed laws banning the use of children for the sport, leading to the prompt removal of almost all child jockeys. Recently robot jockeys have been introduced to overcome the problem of child camel jockeys which was an issue of human right violations. Ansar Burney is often praised for the work he has done in this area.\n\nFootball is a popular sport in the UAE. Al Nasr SC, Al-Ain, Al-Wasl, Al-Sharjah, Al-Wahda, and Shabab Al Ahli Dubai are the most popular teams and enjoy the reputation of long-time regional champions. The United Arab Emirates Football Association was established in 1971 and since then has dedicated its time and effort to promoting the game, organising youth programmes and improving the abilities of not only its players, but also the officials and coaches involved with its regional teams. The UAE national football team qualified for the FIFA World Cup in 1990, along with Egypt. It was the third consecutive World Cup with two Arab nations qualifying, after Kuwait and Algeria in 1982, and Iraq and Algeria again in 1986. The UAE has won the Gulf Cup Championship twice: the first cup in January 2007 held in Abu Dhabi and the second in January 2013, held in Bahrain. The country is scheduled to host the 2019 AFC Asian Cup.\n\nCricket is one of the most popular sports in the UAE, largely because of the expatriate population from the SAARC countries, the United Kingdom, and Australia. The Sharjah Cricket Association Stadium in Sharjah has hosted four international test cricket matches so far. Sheikh Zayed Cricket Stadium in Abu Dhabi has also hosted international cricket matches. Dubai has two cricket stadiums (Dubai Cricket Ground No. 1 and No. 2) with a third, the DSC Cricket Stadium, as part of Dubai Sports City. Dubai is also home to the International Cricket Council. The UAE national cricket team qualified for the 1996 Cricket World Cup and narrowly missed out on qualification for the 2007 Cricket World Cup. They qualified for the 2015 Cricket World Cup held in Australia and New Zealand. The 14th edition of the Asia Cup Cricket tournament was held in the UAE in September 2018.\n\nThe education system through secondary level is monitored by the Ministry of Education in all emirates except Abu Dhabi, where it falls under the authority of the Abu Dhabi Education Council. It consists of primary schools, middle schools and high schools. The public schools are government-funded and the curriculum is created to match the United Arab Emirates' development goals. The medium of instruction in the public school is Arabic with emphasis on English as a second language. There are also many private schools which are internationally accredited. Public schools in the country are free for citizens of the UAE, while the fees for private schools vary.\n\nThe higher education system is monitored by the Ministry of Higher Education. The ministry also is responsible for admitting students to its undergraduate institutions. The adult literacy rate in 2011 was 90%. Thousands of nationals are pursuing formal learning at 86 adult education centres spread across the country.\n\nThe UAE has shown a strong interest in improving education and research. Enterprises include the establishment of the CERT Research Centers and the Masdar Institute of Science and Technology and Institute for Enterprise Development. According to the QS Rankings, the top-ranking universities in the country are the United Arab Emirates University (421–430th worldwide), Khalifa University (441–450th worldwide), the American University of Sharjah (431–440th) and University of Sharjah (551–600th worldwide).\n\nThe demography of the UAE is extremely diverse. In 2010, the UAE's population was estimated to be 8,264,070, of whom only 11.48% were UAE nationals or Emiratis. The country's net migration rate stands at 21.71, the world's highest. Under Article 8 of UAE Federal Law no. 17, an expatriate can apply for UAE citizenship after residing in the country for 20 years, providing that person has never been convicted of a crime and can speak fluent Arabic.\nAccording to an estimate by the World Bank, the UAE’s population in 2018 stands at 9.543 million. Expatriates and immigrants account for 88.52% while Emiratis make up remaining 11.48% of the population.\n\nThere are 1.4 million Emirati citizens. The United Arab Emirates' population is ethnically diverse. According to the CIA, in 2015, 40% of residents were Emirati; 10.2% were Pakistanis; 30% were South Asian.\n\nIn 2009, Emirati citizens accounted for 16.5% of the total population; South Asian (Bangladeshi, Pakistani, Sri Lankans and Indians) constituted the largest group, making up 12% of the total; other Asians (Filipinos, Iranians) made up 16.7%, while Western expatriates were 8.4% of the total population.\n\nIndian and Pakistani expatriates make up more than a fifth (23%) of the population of three emirates – Dubai, Sharjah, and Ajman according to the latest 2014 statistics provided by Euromonitor International, a market intelligence company. The five most populous nationalities in the three emirates, are: Indian (11%), Pakistani (10%), Emirati (40%), Bangladeshi (7%), and Filipino (6%).\n\nThere is a growing presence of Europeans especially in multicultural cities such as Dubai. Western expatriates, from Europe, Australia, Northern America and Latin America make up 500,000 of the UAE population. More than 100,000 British nationals live in the country. The rest of the population were from other Arab states.\n\nAbout 88% of the population of the United Arab Emirates is urban. The average life expectancy was 76.7 in 2012, higher than for any other Arab country. With a male/female sex ratio of 2.2 males for each female in the total population and 2.75 to 1 for the 15–65 age group, the UAE's gender imbalance is second highest in the world after Qatar.\n\nIslam is the largest and the official state religion of the UAE. The government follows a policy of tolerance toward other religions and rarely interferes in the activities of non-Muslims. By the same token, non-Muslims are expected to avoid interfering in Islamic religious matters or the Islamic upbringing of Muslims.\n\nThe government imposes restrictions on spreading other religions through any form of media as it is considered a form of proselytizing. There are approximately 31 churches throughout the country, one Hindu temple in the region of Bur Dubai, one Sikh Gurudwara in Jebel Ali and also a Buddhist temple in Al Garhoud.\n\nBased on the Ministry of Economy census in 2005, 76% of the total population was Muslim, 13% Christian, and 11% other (mainly Hindu). Census figures do not take into account the many \"temporary\" visitors and workers while also counting Baha'is and Druze as Muslim. Among Emirati Muslim citizens, 97% are Sunni, while 3% are Shi'a, mostly concentrated in the emirates of Sharjah and Dubai. Omani immigrants are mostly Ibadi, while Sufi influences exist too.\n\nArabic is the national language of the United Arab Emirates. The Gulf dialect of Arabic is spoken natively by the Emirati people. Since the area was occupied by the British until 1971, English is the primary \"lingua franca\" in the UAE. As such, a knowledge of the language is a requirement when applying for most local jobs.\n\nThe life expectancy at birth in the UAE is at 76.96 years. Cardiovascular disease is the principal cause of death in the UAE, constituting 28% of total deaths; other major causes are accidents and injuries, malignancies, and congenital anomalies. According to World Health Organisation data from 2014, 37.2% of adults in the UAE are clinically obese, with a Body mass index (BMI) score of 30 or more.\n\nIn February 2008, the Ministry of Health unveiled a five-year health strategy for the public health sector in the northern emirates, which fall under its purview and which, unlike Abu Dhabi and Dubai, do not have separate healthcare authorities. The strategy focuses on unifying\nhealthcare policy and improving access to healthcare services at reasonable cost, at the same time reducing dependence on overseas treatment. The ministry plans to add three hospitals to the current 14, and 29 primary healthcare centres to the current 86. Nine were scheduled to open in 2008.\n\nThe introduction of mandatory health insurance in Abu Dhabi for expatriates and their dependants was a major driver in reform of healthcare policy. Abu Dhabi nationals were brought under the scheme from 1 June 2008 and Dubai followed for its government employees. Eventually, under federal law, every Emirati and expatriate in the country will be covered by compulsory health insurance under a unified mandatory scheme.\nThe country has benefited from medical tourists from all over the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf. The UAE attracts medical tourists seeking plastic surgery and advanced procedures, cardiac and spinal surgery, and dental treatment, as health services have higher standards than other Arab countries in the Persian Gulf.\n\nIn 2018, the Emirati passport became the highest climber in the Henley & Partners Passport Index over the past decade, increasing its global rank by 28 places. it currently ranks 21st in the world. The UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has stated it plans to make the UAE passport one of the five strongest passports in the world by 2021.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10166435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10166435", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 77", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 77\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 77, adopted on 11 October 1949, having received and examined the second progress report of the Commission for Conventional Armaments, the Council directed the Secretary-General to transmit the report, along with its annexes, accompanying resolution and a record of the Council’s consideration of the subject to the General Assembly for its information. \n\nThe resolution was adopted with nine votes in favour and two abstentions from the Ukrainian SSR and Soviet Union.\n\n\n"}
