{"id": "33431914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33431914", "title": "180 (2011 American film)", "text": "180 (2011 American film)\n\n180 (also known as 180: Changing the Heart of a Nation or 180 Movie) is a 33-minute 2011 anti-abortion documentary film produced by New Zealand filmmaker Ray Comfort, founder of Living Waters Publications. The film is distributed by Living Waters on DVD and has been posted publicly on the film's official website and YouTube. The film is notable for comparing abortions to the Holocaust.\n\nThe film begins by showing images of the Holocaust, and stating that Adolf Hitler sanctioned the killing of 11 million people. This is followed by Comfort interviewing people about Hitler; their responses indicate a lack of historical knowledge, although he also finds a neo-Nazi who says he loves Hitler. Comfort proposes a hypothetical situation to his interviewees, asking if they would kill Hitler if they had the opportunity at that time in history. He asks more hypotheticals dealing with what his interviewees might do in other circumstances related to the Holocaust.\n\nHe then switches his topic to make similar comparisons to abortion within the United States and the right to life.\n\nThe documentary concludes with Comfort stating that over 50 million abortions have occurred to date; he calls this the \"American Holocaust\".\n\nThe documentary was originally intended to be a free DVD supplement to Comfort's book \"Hitler, God, and the Bible\". Comfort compared his film to the YouTube video \"Charlie Bit My Finger\", which had accumulated millions of views, and offered his hope that \"180\" would achieve the same viewership and thus serve to shift opinion on abortion.\n\nWithin days, \"180\" had over half a million views on YouTube, while weeks later, it hit the 1.2 million mark. The 180 movie passed 3 million views as of May 16, 2012. As of October 2017, \"180\" has over 5.3 million views on YouTube.\n\nOn October 12, 2011, \"The Huffington Post\" wrote an article critical of \"180\". The article quoted Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel, who said in a 1991 interview with \"On The Issues\" Magazine, \"It is blasphemy to reduce a tragedy of such monumental proportions to this human tragedy, and abortion is a human tragedy.\" According to \"The Huffington Post\", \"the film, which shows a series of graphic images, is gaining attention not only because of its controversial comparison, but because it highlights 14 people who do not know who Adolf Hitler was\".\n\n\"The Christian Examiner\" called the film \"dramatic\" and stated that it was \"gaining national attention\". It reported on Ray Comfort's use of \"morally charged\" questions and his attempts to change the minds of \"mostly college-aged\" interviewees, and how eight of those interviewed who previously espoused a pro-choice view changed their minds as a result of the interview.\n\nBritish newspaper \"The Catholic Herald\" criticised the film for bludgeoning and hectoring its subjects and audience and using \"verbal violence\" when love was the better way to change people's minds; however it also found that many of its readers agreed with the film's message and tactics.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League criticized the film for equating the World War II murder of Jews during the Holocaust to abortion in the United States and called it \"cynical and perverse\". It criticized the film's use of images of bodies in concentration camps and Jews being shot and in mass graves intercut with segments of people offering opinions about the Holocaust and abortion. It also challenged Comfort's method of critically questioning those interviewees who spoke negatively about Hitler and yet were more liberal in the views about abortion and women's right to choose. Abraham H. Foxman, the national director of the ADL and himself a Holocaust survivor, criticized the film, stating \"This film is a perverse attempt to make a case against abortion in America through the cynical abuse of the memory of those killed in the Holocaust,\" adding \"It is, quite frankly, one of the most offensive and outrageous abuses of the memory of the Holocaust we have seen in years.\" He decried the film's assertion that there is somehow \"a moral equivalency between the Holocaust and abortion\" and its bringing Jews and Jewish history into a discussion that then urges viewers to \"repent and accept Jesus as their savior.\"\n\n\"The Florida Independent\" reported that Ray Comfort is \"turning his attention to high schools\" in order to \"fill in gaps in education about the Holocaust\". It reports the film as \"largely anti-abortion propaganda\" which has \"become extremely popular in anti-abortion circles\".\n\nThe makers also had trouble with some billboard owners who refused to carry advertising for the film, with Comfort complaining one Jewish company owner was particularly opposed. Comfort also said \"three of the largest billboard companies in Southern California\" refused to advertise it.\n\nIn 2015 a woman from the United Kingdom was dismissed from a Christian school and then contacted by Child Protective Services for showing the film to her own children.\n\nThe documentary was produced by Ray Comfort with the help of his ministry, Living Waters Publications. It was released on Sunday, September 18, 2011. As of November 4, 2011, the film had received over 1 million views on its official website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2503", "title": "African National Congress", "text": "African National Congress\n\nThe African National Congress (ANC) is the Republic of South Africa's governing political party. It has been the ruling party of post-apartheid South Africa on the national level, beginning with the election of Nelson Mandela in the 1994 election. Today, the ANC remains the dominant political party in South Africa, winning every election since 1994. Cyril Ramaphosa, the incumbent President of South Africa, has served as leader of the ANC since 18 December 2017.\n\nFounded on 8 January 1912 by John Langalibalele Dube in Bloemfontein as the South African Native National Congress (SANNC), its primary mission was to give voting rights to black and mixed-race Africans and, from the 1940s, to end apartheid. The ANC originally attempted to use nonviolent protests to end apartheid, however, the Sharpeville massacre resulted in the deaths of 69 black Africans and contributed to deteriorating relations with the South African government. On 8 April 1960, the administration of Charles Robberts Swart, banned the ANC and forced the party to leave South Africa. After the ban, the ANC formed the Umkhonto we Sizwe (Spear of the Nation) to fight against apartheid utilizing guerrilla warfare and sabotage. On 3 February 1990, State President F. W. de Klerk lifted the ban on the ANC and released Nelson Mandela on 11 February 1990. On 17 March 1992, the apartheid referendum was passed by the voters removing apartheid and allowing the ANC to run in the 1994 election. Since the 1994 election the ANC has performed better than 60% in all general elections, including the most recent 2014 election.\n\nThe founding of the SANNC was in direct response to injustice against black South Africans at the hands of the government then in power. It can be said that the SANNC had its origins in a pronouncement by Pixley ka Isaka Seme who said in 1911, \"Forget all the past differences among Africans and unite in one national organisation.\" The SANNC was founded the following year on 8 January 1912.\n\nThe government of the newly formed Union of South Africa began a systematic oppression of black people in South Africa. The Land Act was promulgated in 1913 forcing many black South Africans from their farms into the cities and towns to work, and to restrict their movement within South Africa.\n\nBy 1919, the SANNC was leading a campaign against passes (an ID which black South Africans had to possess). However, it then became dormant in the mid-1920s. During that time, black people were also represented by the ICU and the previously white-only Communist party. In 1923, the organisation became the African National Congress, and in 1929 the ANC supported a militant mineworkers' strike.\n\nBy 1927, J.T. Gumede (president of the ANC) proposed co-operation with the Communists in a bid to revitalise the organisation, but he was voted out of power in the 1930s. This led to the ANC becoming largely ineffectual and inactive, until the mid-1940s when the ANC was remodelled as a mass movement.\n\nThe ANC responded to attacks on the rights of black South Africans, as well as calling for strikes, boycotts, and defiance. This led to a later Defiance Campaign in the 1950s, a mass movement of resistance to apartheid. The government tried to stop the ANC by banning party leaders and enacting new laws to stop the ANC, however these measures ultimately proved to be ineffective.\n\nIn 1955, the Congress of the People officially adopted the Freedom Charter, stating the core principles of the South African Congress Alliance, which consisted of the African National Congress and its allies the South African Communist Party (SACP), the South African Indian Congress, the South African Congress of Democrats (COD) and the Coloured People's Congress. The government claimed that this was a communist document, and consequently leaders of the ANC and Congress were arrested. 1960 saw the Sharpeville massacre, in which 69 people were killed when police opened fire on anti-apartheid protesters.\n\nuMkhonto we Sizwe or MK, translated \"The Spear of the Nation\", was the military wing of the ANC. Partly in response to the Sharpeville massacre of 1960, individual members of the ANC found it necessary to consider violence to combat what passive protest had failed to quell. \n\nIn co-operation with the South African Communist Party, MK was founded in 1961. MK commenced the military struggle against apartheid with acts of sabotage aimed at the installations of the state, and in the early stages was reluctant to target civilian targets. MK was responsible for the deaths of both civilians and members of the military. Acts committed by MK include the Church Street bombing, the Magoo's Bar bombing and bombing a branch of the Standard Bank in Roodepoort. It was integrated into the South African National Defence Force by 1994.\n\nThe ANC and its members were officially removed from the US terrorism watch list in 2008.\n\nThe ANC deems itself a force of national liberation in the post-apartheid era; it officially defines its agenda as the \"National Democratic Revolution\". The ANC is a member of the Socialist International. It also sets forth the redressing of socio-economic differences stemming from colonial- and apartheid-era policies as a central focus of ANC policy.\n\nThe National Democratic Revolution (NDR) is described as a process through which the National Democratic Society (NDS) is achieved; a society in which people are intellectually, socially, economically and politically empowered. The drivers of the NDR are also called the motive forces and are defined as the elements within society that gain from the success of the NDR. Using contour plots or concentric circles the centre represents the elements in society that gain the most out of the success of the NDR. Moving away from the centre results in the reduction of the gains that those elements derive. It is generally believed that the force that occupies the centre of those concentric circles in countries with low unemployment is the working class while in countries with higher levels of unemployment it is the unemployed. Some of the many theoreticians that have written about the NDR include Joe Slovo, Joel Netshitenzhe and Tshilidzi Marwala.\n\nIn 2004, the ANC declared itself to be a social democratic party.\n\nThe 53rd National Conference of the ANC, held in 2015, stated in its \"Discussion Document\" that \"China economic development trajectory remains a leading example of the triumph of humanity over adversity. The exemplary role of the collective leadership of the Communist Party of China in this regard should be a guiding lodestar of our own struggle.\" It went on to state that \"The collapse of the Berlin Wall and socialism in the Soviet Union and Eastern European States influenced our transition towards the negotiated political settlement in our country. The cause of events in the world changed tremendously in favour of the US led imperialism.\"\n\nThe ANC holds a historic alliance with the South African Communist Party (SACP) and Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU), known as the \"Tripartite Alliance\". The SACP and COSATU have not contested any election in South Africa, but field candidates through the ANC, hold senior positions in the ANC, and influence party policy and dialogue. During Mbeki's presidency, the government took a more pro-capitalist stance, often running counter to the demands of the SACP and COSATU.\n\nFollowing Zuma's accession to the ANC leadership in 2007 and Mbeki's resignation as president in 2008, a number of former ANC leaders led by Mosiuoa Lekota split away from the ANC to form the Congress of the People.\n\nOn 20 December 2013, a special congress of the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (NUMSA), the country's biggest trade union with 338,000 members, voted to withdraw support from the ANC and SACP, and form a socialist party to protect the interests of the working class. NUMSA secretary general Irvin Jim condemned the ANC and SACP's support for big business and stated: \"It is clear that the working class cannot any longer see the ANC or the SACP as its class allies in any meaningful sense.\"\n\nThe ANC flag comprises three equal horizontal stripes – black, green and gold. Black symbolises the native people of South Africa, green represents the land and gold represents the mineral and other natural wealth of South Africa.\n\nThis flag was also the battle flag of uMkhonto we Sizwe.\n\nThe Grand Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach used an unrelated but identical flag from 1813 to 1897.\nThe black, green and gold tricolor was also used on the flag of the KwaZulu bantustan.\n\nAlthough the colours of the new national Flag of South Africa since the transition from apartheid in 1994 have no official meaning, the three colours of the ANC flag were included in it, together with red, white and blue.\n\nPoliticians in the party win a place in parliament by being on the \"Party List\", which is drawn up before the elections and enumerates, in order, the party's preferred MPs. The number of seats allocated is proportional to the popular national vote, and this determines the cut-off point.\n\nThe ANC has also gained members through the controversial floor crossing process.\n\nAlthough most South African parties announced their candidate list for provincial premierships in the 2009 election, the ANC did not, as it is not required for parties to do so.\n\nIn 2001, the ANC launched an online weekly web-based newsletter, \"ANC Today – Online Voice of the African National Congress\" to offset the alleged bias of the press. It consists mainly of updates on current programmes and initiatives of the ANC.\n\n!Election\n!Total votes\n!Share of vote\n!Seats\n!Government\n!1994\n!1999\n!2004\n!2009\n!2014\n\n!Election\n!Total # ofseats won\n!1994\n!1999\n!2004\n!2009\n!2014\n\n!rowspan=2|Election\n!colspan=2|Eastern Cape\n!colspan=2|Free State\n!colspan=2|Gauteng\n!colspan=2|Kwazulu-Natal\n!colspan=2|Limpopo\n!colspan=2|Mpumalanga\n!colspan=2|North-West\n!colspan=2|Northern Cape\n!colspan=2|Western Cape\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!%!!Seats\n!1994\n!1999\n!2004\n!2009\n!2014\n\n!Election\n!Votes\n!Change\n!1995–96\n!2000\n!2006\n!2011\n!2016\n\nThe ANC represented the main opposition to the government during apartheid and therefore they played a major role in resolving the conflict through participating in the peacemaking and peace-building processes. Initially intelligence agents of the National Party met in secret with ANC leaders, including Nelson Mandela, to judge whether conflict resolution was possible. Discussions and negotiations took place leading to the eventual unbanning of the ANC and other opposing political parties by then President de Klerk on 2 February 1990.\n\nThe next official step towards rebuilding South Africa was the Groote Schuur Minute where the government and the ANC agreed on a common commitment towards the resolution of the existing climate of violence and intimidation, as well as a commitment to stability and to a peaceful process of negotiations. The ANC negotiated the release of political prisoners and the indemnity from prosecution for returning exiles and moreover channels of communication were established between the Government and the ANC.\n\nLater the Pretoria Minute represented another step towards resolution where agreements at Groote Schuur were reconsolidated and steps towards setting up an interim government and drafting a new constitution were established as well as suspension of the military wing of the ANC – the Umkhonto we Sizwe. This step helped end much of the violence within South Africa. Another agreement that came out of the Pretoria Minute was that both parties would try and raise awareness that a new way of governance was being created for South Africa, and that further violence would only hinder this process. However, violence still continued in Kwazulu-Natal, which violated the trust between Mandela and de Klerk. Moreover, internal disputes in the ANC prolonged the war as consensus on peace was not reached.\n\nThe next significant steps towards resolution were the Repeal of the Population Registration Act, the repeal of the Group Areas and the Native Land Acts and a catch-all Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act was passed. These measures ensured no one could claim, or be deprived of, any land rights on the basis of race.\n\nIn December 1991 the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA) was held with the aim of establishing an interim government. However, a few months later in June 1992 the Boipatong massacre occurred and all negotiations crumbled as the ANC pulled out. After this negotiations proceeded between two agents, Cyril Ramaphosa of the ANC, and Roelf Meyer of the National Party. In over 40 sessions the two men discussed and negotiated over many issues including the nature of the future political system, the fate of over 40,000 government employees and if/how the country would be divided. The result of these negotiations was an interim constitution that meant the transition from apartheid to democracy was a constitutional continuation and that the rule of law and state sovereignty remained intact during the transition, which was vital for stability within the country. A date was set for the first democratic elections on 27 April 1994. The ANC won 62.5% of the votes and has been in power ever since.\n\nThe most prominent corruption case involving the ANC relates to a series of bribes paid to companies involved in the ongoing R55 billion Arms Deal saga, which resulted in a long term jail sentence to then Deputy President Jacob Zuma's legal adviser Schabir Shaik. Zuma, the former South African President, was charged with fraud, bribery and corruption in the Arms Deal, but the charges were subsequently withdrawn by the National Prosecuting Authority of South Africa due to their delay in prosecution. The ANC has also been criticised for its subsequent abolition of the Scorpions, the multidisciplinary agency that investigated and prosecuted organised crime and corruption, and was heavily involved in the investigation into Zuma and Shaik. Tony Yengeni, in his position as chief whip of the ANC and head of the Parliaments defence committee has recently been named as being involved in bribing the German company ThyssenKrupp over the purchase of four corvettes for the SANDF.\n\nOther recent corruption issues include the sexual misconduct and criminal charges of Beaufort West municipal manager Truman Prince, and the Oilgate scandal, in which millions of Rand in funds from a state-owned company were funnelled into ANC coffers.\n\nThe ANC has also been accused of using government and civil society to fight its political battles against opposition parties such as the Democratic Alliance. The result has been a number of complaints and allegations that none of the political parties truly represent the interests of the poor. This has resulted in the \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\" Campaign which became very prominent during elections.\nIn 2018, the \"New York Times\" reported on the killings of ANC corruption whistleblowers.\n\nIn late 2011 the ANC was heavily criticised over the passage of the Protection of State Information Bill, which opponents claimed would improperly restrict the freedom of the press. Opposition to the bill included otherwise ANC-aligned groups such as COSATU. Notably, Nelson Mandela and other Nobel laureates Nadine Gordimer, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, and F. W. de Klerk have expressed disappointment with the bill for not meeting standards of constitutionality and aspirations for freedom of information and expression.\n\nThe ANC have been criticised for its role in failing to prevent 16 August 2012 massacre of Lonmin miners at Marikana in the North West. Some allege that Police Commissioner Riah Phiyega and Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa, a close confidant of Jacob Zuma, may have given the go ahead for the police action against the miners on that day.\n\nCommissioner Phiyega of the ANC came under further criticism as being insensitive and uncaring when she was caught smiling and laughing during the Farlam Commission's video playback of the 'massacre'. Archbishop Desmond Tutu has announced that he no longer can bring himself to exercise a vote for the ANC as it is no longer the party that he and Nelson Mandela fought for, and that the party has now lost its way, and is in danger of becoming a corrupt entity in power.\n\nThe ANC has a growing list of constitutional failures. One of the most prominent relates to president of the ANC and of the Republic, Jacob Zuma, and his Nkandla homestead's security upgrades, valued at around R250 million. His swimming pool, for example, was termed a 'fire pool' and his amphitheatre an 'emergency meeting point', thus leaving the taxpayer to carry the costs. After the Public Protector released her report (Secure in Comfort) which found that Zuma must pay back the money spent on the non-security features, he refused to do so. In 2016 the Constitutional Court ruled that Zuma, as well as the National Assembly, had \"breached the Constitution\" and failed to uphold it. Zuma apologised to the nation as follows: “The matter has caused a lot of frustration and confusion for which I apologise on my behalf and on behalf of government.” However he claimed not to have asked nor known about the non-security upgrades, despite the media reporting on them almost daily.\n\nThere is also a growing trend for ANC members as well as those individuals appointed by the ANC to public positions of power to misrepresent their qualifications. The result of such lies typically lead to those appointed being unable to fulfill their obligations while being paid very large salaries, and typically cost the taxpayer large amount of money while attempting to defend themselves in court. A small selection follows:\n\nCarl Niehaus, who served as ANC speaker, claimed to have a B.A., Masters and Doctorate degrees; in reality he never received the Masters or Doctoral degrees.\n\nPallo Jordan, who served as Minister of Arts and Culture claimed to be in possession of a PhD, when in reality he has no tertiary education at all.\n\nDaniel Mtimkulu, who was employed as chief engineer at Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) claimed to have a PhD in engineering, which was a lie; he was merely qualified as an engineering technician. Under Mtimkulu's leadership, Prasa ordered 70 new locomotives, valued at R3.5 billion. The first 13 Afro 4000 diesel locomotives to arrive, at a cost of R600 million, were too tall to be of use on their intended routes.\n\nEllen Tshabalala, former chairperson of the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC), claimed to have a BComm degree. In reality her marks were so poor (13% for one module and 35% for another, amongst others) that she was not allowed to rewrite some of her exams. She later claimed that he degree certificate was stolen. Defending Tshabalala in court cost the SABC more than R1 million.\n\nHlaudi Motsoeneng, former COO of the SABC lied about being in possession of a Matric certificate. By his own admission, he simply invented marks for himself. He was appointed by Ellen Tshabalala, and his various court cases have cost the SABC more than R1.5 million. Further, under Motsoeneng's reign, the broadcaster recorded a net loss of R411 million in the 2015/16 financial year.\n\nDudu Myeni, chairperson of South African Airways (SAA) and good friend of Jacob Zuma, claimed to have a Bachelor's degree in administration. This was proven false. Under her leadership \"SAA’s losses for the 2014/15 financial year were R5.6-billion – close to R1-billion more than the expected amount of R4.7-billion\".\n\nSicelo Shiceka, Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs lied about being in possession of a Master's degree. He used taxpayer's money to fund a party for his mother and secured a government car for his girlfriend, whereafter he was appointed as a member of the inter-ministerial task team on corruption.\n\nA 2016 statement issued by Zizi Kodwa, the ANC National Spokesperson states that \"[t]he ANC rejects these [racist] comments with the contempt they deserve and calls on all South Africans to join in the rejection of all racists in our country, wherever they are. It is sad that well meaning South Africans have to contend with this backward attitude.\" In support of this statement, the ANC has publicly called for legal action to be taken against whites who have publicly made racist comments against blacks, usually through social media.\n\nPenny Sparrow is one such high-profile case. She posted the following through her Facebook account:These monkeys that are allowed to be released on New Year’s eve and New Year’s day on to public beaches towns etc obviously have no education what so ever so to allow them loose is inviting huge dirt and troubles and discomfort to others. I’m sorry to say that I was among the revellers and all I saw were black on black skins what a shame. I do know some wonderful and thoughtful black people. This lot of monkeys just don’t want to even try. But think they can voice opinions about statute and get their way oh dear. From now I shall address the blacks of South Africa as monkeys as I see the cute little wild monkeys do the same, pick drop and litter.\n\nSparrow pleaded guilty to crimen injuria, and was presented with a choice of either paying a R5,000 fine or 12 months in jail, in addition to paying the legal fees incurred by the ANC, who brought the matter to court. In a separate instance, she was also ordered to pay R150,000 to the Oliver and Adelaide Tambo Trust.\n\nIn contrast to the ANC's swift and decisive action towards Sparrow and other white racists, they have mostly ignored racist comments voiced by blacks, in particular ANC members. For example, Kenny Barrel Nkosi, an ANC ward councillor (Govan Mbeki Municipality, Mpumalanga) posted the following on his Facebook account: \"The first people that need to fokkof [fuck off] are whites, cubans never oppressed us. these are our true friends they were there in the times on needs. welcom cdes welcome [sic]\" The municipality issued the following statement: “The matter has been investigated and at the time of the comment, the ward councillor was not representing the views of either the ANC or the Govan Mbeki Municipality, but merely as a personal opinion.” No further action was taken.\n\nAt a Gupta family wedding held at Sun City in 2013, various incidents of racism occurred. The family made clear that they wanted only white workers, including waiters, security, bar staff and cleaning staff. Black workers were told to wash before they interacted with guests. These allegations were denied by the Gupta family. Nonetheless, in the Gupta e-mail leak of 2017 these allegations were shown to be correct. Moreover, the e-mails also make clear that a black worker was called a monkey by a member of the Gupta family. That the Gupta family is a large, vocal and powerful supporter of the ANC and a personal friend of Jacob Zuma, may explain why no action was taken against them with regards to racism.\n\nLindiwe Sisulu, ANC member and Minister of Defence and Military Veterans (who demanded that the Estate Agency Affairs Board report to her regarding action taken against Sparrow) called the Democratic Alliance leader, Mmusi Maimane, a \"hired native\". Ironically – due to the fact that Chris Hart, prominent economist and investment strategist at Standard Bank, was forced to resign for his racist tweet stating that \"[m]ore than 25 years after Apartheid ended, the victims are increasing along with a sense of entitlement and hatred towards minorities….\" – Sisulu said the following, while discussing the 2.3 million housing backlog: \"What makes an 18-year-old think the state owes them a house? It’s a culture of entitlement … we can’t continue with a dependency culture.\" No action has been taken against Sisulu.\n\nLulu Xingwana, former ANC Minister of Women, Children and People with Disabilities, stated that \"[y]oung Afrikaner men are brought up in the Calvinist religion believing that they own a woman, they own a child, they own everything and therefore they can take that life because they own it\". The minister apologised, and no further action was taken against her.\n\nJimmy Manyi, ANC director general of labour and later ANC spokesperson, is quotes as saying the following on a TV interview: “I think its very important for coloured people in this country to understand that South Africa belongs to them in totality, not just the Western Cape. So this over-concentration of coloureds in the Western Cape is not working for them. They should spread in the rest of the country ... so they must stop this over-concentration situation because they are in over-supply where they are so you must look into the country and see where you can meet the supply.\" No action has been taken against Manyi.\n\nJulius Malema, former ANCYL leader and current EFF leader, stated at a political rally in 2016 that “We [the EFF] are not calling for the slaughter of white people‚ at least for now\". When asked for comment by a news agency, the ANC spokesperson, Zizi Kodwa stated that there will be no comment from the ANC, as \"[h]e [Malema] was addressing his own party supporters.\" While still the ANCYL leader, Malema was taken to the Equality Court by AfriForum for repeatedly singing “dubul’ ibhunu”, which translate as “shoot the boer [white farmer]”. The ANC supported Malema, though AfriForum and the ANC reached a settlement before the appeal case was due to be argued in the Supreme Court of Appeal.\n\nIn partial response to the Penny Sparrow case, Velaphi Khumalo, while working for the Department of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation, posted the following on his Facebook account:\"I want to cleans this country of all white people. we must act as Hitler did to the Jews. I don't believe any more that the is a large number of not so racist whit people. I'm starting to be sceptical even of those within our Movement the ANC. I will from today unfriend all white people I have as friends from today u must be put under the same blanket as any other racist white because secretly u all are a bunch of racist fuck heads. as we have already seen \n[all sic].\" He also posted:\"Noo seriously though u oppressed us when u were a minority and then manje u call us monkeys and we supposed to let it slide . white people in south Africa deserve to be hacked and killed like Jews. U have the same venom moss . look at Palestine . noo u must be bushed alive and skinned and your off springs used as garden fertiliser [all sic]\".\n\nThe Department of Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation responded with a statement wherein it \"views the hateful post by Velaphi Khumalo in a serious light. Our key mandate is nation-building and social cohesion. His sentiments take our country backwards and do not reflect what the Gauteng provincial government stands for.” Khumalo was suspended on full pay while an investigation was undertaken, was found to be guilty by an internal disciplinary procedure, and issued with a warning, whereafter he resumed his work at the department.\n\nEsethu Hasane, Media and Communication Manager for the Department of Sport and Recreation tweeted the following during the severe droughts in the Western cape in 2017: \"Only Western Cape still has dry dams. Please God, we have black people there, choose another way of punishing white people.\" Despite calls for his dismissal, no action was taken.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "171866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171866", "title": "Agricultural subsidy", "text": "Agricultural subsidy\n\nAn agricultural subsidy (also called an agricultural incentive), is a government incentive paid to agribusinesses, agricultural organizations and farms to supplement their income, manage the supply of agricultural commodities, and influence the cost and supply of such commodities. Examples of such commodities include: wheat, feed grains (grain used as fodder, such as maize or corn, sorghum, barley and oats), cotton, milk, rice, peanuts, sugar, tobacco, oilseeds such as soybeans and meat products such as beef, pork, and lamb and mutton.\n\nThe system of agricultural subsidies was originally instituted to stabilize markets, help low-income farmers, and aid rural development. In the United States, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Agricultural Adjustment Act, which created the Agricultural Adjustment Administration (AAA). This came as a result of the series of programs, public work projects, financial reforms and regulations enacted by the president known as the New Deal. The AAA helped to regulate agricultural production by reducing surplus and controlling the supply of agricultural products in society. Through the control of seven crops (corn, wheat, cotton, rice, peanuts, tobacco and milk), Congress was able to balance the supply and demand for farm commodities by offering payment to farmers in return for taking some of their land out of the farming process. Unlike traditional subsidies that promote the growth of products, Congress recognized that agricultural prices needed to be boosted and did so by limiting the growth of these crops. \n\nIn Europe, Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) was launched in 1962 to improve agricultural productivity. According to the European Commission, the act aims to\n\n\nIn 2010, the EU spent €57 billion on agricultural development, of which €39 billion was spent on direct subsidies. Agricultural and fisheries subsidies form over 40% of the EU budget. Since 1992 (and especially since 2005), the EU's Common Agricultural Policy has undergone significant change as subsidies have mostly been decoupled from production. The largest subsidy is the \"Single Farm Payment\".\n\nIncreases in food and fertilizer prices have underlined the vulnerability of poor urban and rural households in many developing countries, especially in Africa, renewing policymakers' focus on the need to increase staple food crop productivity.\n\nA study by the Overseas Development Institute evaluates the benefits of the Malawi Government Agricultural Inputs Subsidy Programme, which was implemented in 2006/2007 to promote access to and use of fertilizers in both maize and tobacco production to increase agricultural productivity and food security. The subsidy was implemented by means of a coupon system which could be redeemed by the recipients for fertilizer types at approximately one-third of the normal cash price. According to policy conclusions of the Overseas Development Institute the voucher for coupon system can be an effective way of rationing and targeting subsidy access to maximize production and economic and social gains. Many practical and political challenges remain in the program design and implementation required to increase efficiency, control costs, and limit patronage and fraud.\n\nNew Zealand is reputed to have the most open agricultural markets in the world after radical reforms started in 1984 by the Fourth Labour Government stopped all subsidies.\n\nIn 1984 New Zealand's Labor government took the dramatic step of ending all farm subsidies, which then consisted of 30 separate production payments and export incentives. This was a truly striking policy action, because New Zealand's economy is roughly five times more dependent on farming than is the U.S. economy, measured by either output or employment. Subsidies in New Zealand accounted for more than 30 percent of the value of production before reform, somewhat higher than U.S. subsidies today. And New Zealand farming was marred by the same problems caused by U.S. subsidies, including overproduction, environmental degradation and inflated land prices.\n\nAs the country is a large agricultural exporter, continued subsidies by other countries are a long-standing bone of contention, with New Zealand being a founding member of the 20-member Cairns Group fighting to improve market access for exported agricultural goods.\n\nThe Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, also known as the 2002 Farm Bill, addressed a great variety of issues related to agriculture, ecology, energy, trade, and nutrition. Signed after the September 11th attacks of 2001, the act directs approximately $16.5 billion of government funding toward agricultural subsidies each year. This funding has had a great effect of the production of grains, oilseeds, and upland cotton. The United States paid allegedly around $20 billion in 2005 to farmers in direct subsidies as \"farm income stabilization\" via farm bills. Overall agricultural subsidies in 2010 were estimated at $172 billion by a European agricultural industry association; however, the majority of this estimate consists of food stamps and other consumer subsidies, so it is not comparable to the 2005 estimate. These bills pre-date the economic turmoil of the Great Depression with the 1922 Grain Futures Act, the 1929 Agricultural Marketing Act, and the 1933 Agricultural Adjustment Act creating a tradition of government support.\n\nAgricultural policies of the United States are changed, incrementally or more radically, by Farm Bills that are passed every five years or so. Statements about how the program works might be right at one point in time, at best, but are probably not sufficient for assessing agricultural policies at other points in time. For example, a large part of the support to program crops has not been linked directly to current output since the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-127). Instead, these payments were tied to historical entitlement, not current planting. For example, it is incorrect to attribute a payment associated with wheat base area to wheat production now because that land might be allocated to any of a number of permitted uses, including held idle. Over time, successive Farm Bills have linked these direct payments to market prices or revenue, but not to production. In contrast, some programs, like the Marketing Loan Program that can create something of a floor price that producers receive per unit sold, are tied to production. That is, if the price of wheat in 2002 was $3.80, farmers would get an extra 58¢ per bushel (52¢ plus the 6¢ price difference). Fruit and vegetable crops are not eligible for subsidies.\n\nCorn was the top crop for subsidy payments prior to 2011. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 mandated that billions of gallons of ethanol be blended into vehicle fuel each year, guaranteeing demand, but US corn ethanol subsidies were between $5.5 billion and $7.3 billion per year. Producers also benefited from a federal subsidy of 51 cents per gallon, additional state subsidies, and federal crop subsidies that had brought the total to 85 cents per gallon or more. However, the federal ethanol subsidy expired December 31, 2011. (US corn-ethanol producers were shielded from competition from cheaper Brazilian sugarcane-ethanol by a 54-cent-per-gallon tariff; however, that tariff also expired December 31, 2011.)\n\nFarm subsidies in Asia remain a point of contention in global trade talks.\n\nIn 2012, China provided $165 billion in agricultural subsidies. In 2018, China increased their subsidies for soybean farmers in their northeastern provinces. Corn farmers, however, received reduced subsidies due to Beijing's 2017 policy that set out to reduce its huge stockpile. Soybean farmers in Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang, and Inner Mongolia provinces will receive more subsidies from Beijing than corn farmers. The cutting of corn acreage and the lifting of soybean acreage came in 2016 as a push from China to re-balance grain stocks. Subsidies for agriculture machinery and equipment will also be provided by Beijing to farmers.\n\nIn 2012, Indonesia provided $28 billion in agricultural subsidies.\n\nIn 2009, Japan paid USD$46.5 billion in subsidies to its farmers, and continued state support of farmers in Japan remains a controversial topic. In 2012, Japan provided $65 billion in agricultural subsidies.\n\nSouth Korea has made attempts to reform its agricultural sector, despite resistance from vested interests. In 2012, South Korea provided approximately $20 billion in agricultural subsidies.\n\nAlthough some critics and proponents of the World Trade Organization have noted that export subsidies, by driving down the price of commodities, can provide cheap food for consumers in developing countries, low prices are harmful to farmers not receiving the subsidy. Because it is usually wealthy countries that can afford domestic subsidies, critics argue that they promote poverty in developing countries by artificially driving down world crop prices. Generally, developing countries have a comparative advantage in producing agricultural goods, but low crop prices encourage developing countries to be dependent buyers of food from wealthy countries. So local farmers, instead of improving the agricultural and economic self-sufficiency of their home country, are forced out of the market and perhaps even off their land. This occurs as a result of a process known as \"international dumping\" in which subsidized farmers are able to \"dump\" low-cost agricultural goods on foreign markets at costs that un-subsidized farmers cannot compete with. Agricultural subsidies often are a common stumbling block in trade negotiations. In 2006, talks at the Doha round of WTO trade negotiations stalled because the US refused to cut subsidies to a level where other countries' non-subsidized exports would have been competitive.\n\nOthers argue that a world market with farm subsidies and other market distortions (as happens today) results in higher food prices, rather than lower food prices, as compared to a free market.\n\nMark Malloch Brown, former head of the United Nations Development Programme, estimated that farm subsidies cost poor countries about US$50 billion a year in lost agricultural exports:\n\nIt is the extraordinary distortion of global trade, where the West spends $360 billion a year on protecting its agriculture with a network of subsidies and tariffs that costs developing countries about US$50 billion in potential lost agricultural exports. Fifty billion dollars is the equivalent of today's level of development assistance.\n\nThe impact of agricultural subsidies in developed countries upon developing-country farmers and international development is well documented. Agricultural subsidies can help drive prices down to benefit consumers, but also mean that unsubsidised developing-country farmers have a more difficult time competing in the world market; and the effects on poverty are particularly negative when subsidies are provided for crops that are also grown in developing countries since developing-country farmers must then compete directly with subsidised developed-country farmers, for example in cotton and sugar. The IFPRI has estimated in 2003 that the impact of subsidies costs developing countries $24 billion in lost incomes going to agricultural and agro-industrial production; and more than $40Bn is displaced from net agricultural exports. Moreover, the same study found that the least developed countries have a higher proportion of GDP dependent upon agriculture, at around 36.7%, thus may be even more vulnerable to the effects of subsidies. It has been argued that subsidised agriculture in the developed world is one of the greatest obstacles to economic growth in the developing world; which has an indirect impact on reducing the income available to invest in rural infrastructure such as health, safe water supplies and electricity for the rural poor. The total amount of subsidies that go towards agriculture in OECD countries far exceeds the amount that countries provide in development aid. In the case of Africa, it is estimated that a 1% increase in its total agricultural exports could lift its GDP by $70 billion, nearly five times what the region is provided in total foreign aid.\n\nHaiti is an excellent example of a developing country negatively affected by agricultural subsidies in the developed world. Haiti is a nation with the capacity to produce rice and was at one time self-sufficient in meeting its own needs. At present, Haiti does not produce enough to feed its people; 60 percent of the food consumed in the country is imported. Following advice to liberalize its economy by lowering tariffs, domestically produced rice was displaced by cheaper subsidised rice from the United States. The Food and Agriculture Organization describes this liberalization process as being the removal of barriers to trade and a simplification of tariffs, which lowers costs to consumers and promotes efficiency among producers.\n\nOpening up Haiti's economy granted consumers access to food at a lower cost; allowing foreign producers to compete for the Haitian market drove down the price of rice. However, for Haitian rice farmers without access to subsidies, the downward pressure on prices led to a decline in profits. Subsidies received by American rice farmers, plus increased efficiencies, made it impossible for their Haitian counterparts to compete. According to Oxfam and the International Monetary Fund, tariffs on imports fell from 50 percent to three percent in 1995 and the nation is currently importing 80 percent of the rice it consumes.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture notes that since 1980, rice production in Haiti has been largely unchanged, while consumption on the other hand, is roughly eight times what it was in that same year. Haiti is among the top three consumers of long grain milled rice produced in the United States.\n\nAs rice farmers struggled to compete, many migrated from rural to urban areas in search of alternative economic opportunities.\n\nOne peer-reviewed research suggests that any effects of US farm policies on US obesity patterns must have been negligible. However, some critics argue that the artificially low prices resulting from subsidies create unhealthy incentives for consumers. For example, in the USA, cane sugar was replaced with cheap corn syrup, making high-sugar food cheaper; beet and cane sugar are subject to subsidies, price controls, and import tariffs that distort the prices of these products as well.\n\nThe lower price of energy-dense foods such as grains and sugars could be one reason why low-income people and food insecure people in industrialized countries are more vulnerable to being overweight and obese. According to the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, meat and dairy production receive 63% of subsidies in the United States, as well as sugar subsidies for unhealthy foods, which contribute to heart disease, obesity and diabetes, with enormous costs for the health sector.\n\nMarket distortions due to subsidies have led to an increase in corn fed cattle rather than grass fed. Corn fed cattle require more antibiotics and their beef has a higher fat content.\n\nTariffs on sugar have also caused large candy makers in the USA to relocate to Canada and Mexico, where sugar is often half to a third the price.\nThe Dominican Republic Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), though, does not seen to be very impact in this area but known to not amounting to much. The sugar issue causing alarm had reasoning due to what plausible effects could come through the tariffs as well as the undetermined future of these types of negotiations considering sugar importation in the United States. Due to various continuing disputes in trade, Mexico began to have fewer exports of sugar into the United States, where the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) allowed. Those who left and sought out other companies for sugar have leaned marginally more towards Canada than Mexico. The tariffs are what keeps the large pressure from competition from south of the Rio Grande at bay.\n\nSubsidies are also given to companies and individuals with little connection to traditional farming. It has been reported that the largest part of the sum given to these companies flow to multinational companies like food conglomerates, sugar manufacturers and liquor distillers. For example, in France, the single largest beneficiary was the chicken processor Groupe Doux, at €62.8m, and was followed by about a dozen sugar manufacturers which together reaped more than €103m.\n\nGovernment intervention, through agricultural subsidies, interferes with the price mechanism which would normally determine commodity prices, often creating crop overproduction and market discrimination. Subsidies are also an inefficient use of taxpayer’s money. For instance, in 2006, the Department of Agriculture estimated that the average farm household income was $77,654 or about 17% higher than the average US household income. From a public economics perspective, subsidies of any kind work to create a socially and politically acceptable equilibrium that is not necessarily Pareto efficient.\n\nThe monoculture system associated with subsidized large-scale production has been implicated as a contributory factor in Colony Collapse Disorder which has affected bee populations. Bee pollination is an essential ecosystem service essential for the production of many varieties of fruits and vegetables. Subsidies often go towards subsidising meat production which has other nutritional and environmental implications; and it has been found that out of the $200Bn subsidies to subsidise crops from 1995–2010 around two thirds of this went to animal feed, tobacco and cotton production. On the other hand, farmers producing fruits and vegetables received no direct subsidies. The environmental impact of meat production is high due to the resource and energy requirements that go into production of feed for livestock throughout their lifespan, for example, a kilogram of beef uses about 60 times as much water as an equivalent amount of potato. The subsidies contribute to meat consumption by allowing for an artificially low cost of meat products.\n\nNeoliberals argue that the current subsidies distort incentives for the global trade of agricultural commodities in which other countries may have a comparative advantage. Allowing countries to specialize in commodities in which they have a comparative advantage in and then freely trade across borders would therefore increase global welfare and reduce food prices. Ending direct payments to farmers and deregulating the farm industry would eliminate inefficiencies and deadweight loss created by government intervention.\n\nHowever, others disagree, arguing that a more radical transformation of agriculture is needed, one guided by the notion that ecological change in agriculture cannot be promoted without comparable changes in the social, political, cultural and economic arenas that conform and determine agriculture. The organized peasant and indigenous based agrarian movements, e.g. Via Campesina, consider that only by changing the export-led, free-trade based, industrial agriculture model of large farms can halt what they call the downward spiral of poverty, low wages, rural-urban migration, hunger and environmental degradation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31180353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31180353", "title": "Airgram", "text": "Airgram\n\nAn airgram (abbr. \"agam\" or \"agram\") a U.S. diplomatic term for a message sent by courier via the diplomatic bag instead of by telegram.\n\nThe words \"AIR\" and \"GRAM\" separated by a mark which resembles an elongated \"V\" is a trademarked design used on envelopes and referred to as an AirGram. This product is primarily used in quick turn around direct mail to express a sense of urgency to the mail recipient. It was first used for this purpose in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "20376936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20376936", "title": "Brazilian–Argentine Agency for Accounting and Control of Nuclear Materials", "text": "Brazilian–Argentine Agency for Accounting and Control of Nuclear Materials\n\nThe Brazilian–Argentine Agency for Accounting and Control of Nuclear Materials (ABACC; ; ) is a binational safeguards agency playing an active role in the verification of the peaceful use of nuclear materials that could be used, either directly or indirectly, for the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction.\n\nNuclear cooperation between Argentina and Brazil traces back to 1986 with the signature of a protocol about immediate sharing of information and mutual assistance in case of nuclear accidents and radiological emergencies The warm personal relationship that existed between Argentina's democratically elected president Raul Alfonsin and his Brazilian counterpart, João Figueiredo, further catalyzed the deepening of relations which is now understood to have begun under their authoritarian predecessors.\n\nThe ABACC was created on July 18, 1991 and is the only binational safeguards organization existing in the world and the first binational organization created by Argentina and Brazil. \n\nAs a regional agency dealing with safeguards, its main goal is guaranteeing Argentina, Brazil and the international community that all the nuclear materials are used exclusively for peaceful purposes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38436712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38436712", "title": "Bulgarian Euro-Left", "text": "Bulgarian Euro-Left\n\nThe Bulgarian Euro-Left (; transl. Bulgarska Evrolevista - BEL) was a pro-Western social-democratic political party in Bulgaria. The party was established on 22 February 1997 in Sofia. The party was formed by former members of the Bulgarian Socialist Party.\n\nThe party contested the April 1997 parliamentary election as the Civil Union for the Republic – Bulgarian Euro-Left, winning 5.5% of the vote and 14 seats in the National Assembly. Two deputies from the Bulgarian Business Bloc joined the BEL in February 1998. \n\nThe BEL was admitted into the Socialist International as an observer affiliate in 1999. The Party was in favour of Bulgaria's ascension to the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "647321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647321", "title": "Camp Bucca", "text": "Camp Bucca\n\nCamp Bucca () was a detention facility maintained by the United States military in the vicinity of Umm Qasr, Iraq. As of June 2011, a group of entrepreneurial Iraqis and Americans are re-building Camp Bucca as Basra Gateway, a logistic center. The facility was initially called Camp Freddy and used by British Forces to hold Iraqi prisoners of war. After being taken over by the U.S. military (800th Military Police Brigade) in April 2003, it was renamed after Ronald Bucca, a NYC Fire Marshal who died in the 11 September 2001 attacks.\n\nCamp Bucca was built on a site where before the tallest structure of Iraq, a 492 metres high TV mast stood, which might have been used for propaganda TV to Iran.\n\nAfter the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal, many detainees from Abu Ghraib were transferred to Camp Bucca. After a substantial turn-over in the chain of command at Camp Bucca and substantial amendments to camp policy, the US military held up Camp Bucca as an example of how a model detention facility should be run. A majority of the detainees were reportedly housed in cinder block housing units with wooden roofing rather than tents, while other detainees were held in hasty tent compounds until 2009. Cigarettes, tea, and the opportunity to listen to radio and T.V. programs were used as incentives for good behavior. Some detainees were allowed family visitation from Iraqi relatives not held at the facility. Detainees were provided the opportunity for basic education including reading, writing (both English and Arabic), arithmetic, basic geography and art. Detainees organized and administered their own classes in subjects like literacy and religion, and competed in soccer matches. Soccer matches were encouraged to attempt to promote cooperation and trust between every aspect involved in the camp.\n\nAdditionally, the internment facility had its own U.S. Army run hospital to serve detainees. It offered comprehensive healthcare. There was an emergency room, internal medicine clinic, optometry clinic, psychiatric services, orthopedic/surgical unit, physical therapy clinic, pharmacy, dental clinic, dietary services and more. Detainees were screened by medics and doctors at the wire, that was right out where the detainees are housed, and then triaged to the hospital for further care. Some detainees were flown to larger medical facilities in Iraq to receive cataract surgery. U.S. Army medical staff was also given training on how to provide care while respecting Muslim traditions.\n\nMilitants regularly launched rockets into Camp Bucca. The rockets are widely believed to be often provided and set up by Iranians who teach the militants to launch them hours after they've returned to their nearby country (about ). The lethal explosions averaged around 5 per month in a period from September 2007 to late April 2008, with the most intense barrage coming during The Ramadan period (October) when 12 aerial bombs (Believed to be stolen from a British camp in nearby (about ) al Basrah) landed in a span of 8 days. On 17 September 2009, The US military announced that the base would be closed. In December 2010, the U.S. military handed the base to the government of Iraq, who, on the same day, gave Kufan Group of Iraq a license to invest in the new Basra Gateway, to provide a 21st-century logistics hub for Iraq's port.\n\nDuring the months of April and May 2003 two prisoners were shot, one killed, by soldiers of the 314th MP Company. One was fired on during a riot, after he attempted to assault a staff-sergeant with a sharpened piece of metal re-bar removed from their housing tents. He was struck in the lower side of his abdomen and died during surgery. The other was fired on by a soldier as he attempted to crawl through barbed wire to obtain a pistol belt (which later turned out to be empty) left behind by a battalion MP when rioting prisoners threw rocks. The prisoner was struck in the leg and abandoned his attempt to reach the pistol belt.\n\nOn 18 May 2003, U.S. military forces mistakenly released Mohammed Jawad An-Neifus from the Camp Bucca. An-Neifus is suspected of being involved in the mass murder of thousands of Iraqi Shias whose remains were later found at a mass gravesite in the southern city of al-Mahawil.\n\nOn 7 January 2004, a detainee escaped from Camp Bucca. Investigating officers concluded that 'the detainee escaped through an undetected weakness in the wire. Contributing factors were inexperienced guards, lapses in accountability, complacency, lack of leadership presence, poor visibility, and lack of clear and concise communication between the guards and the leadership.'\n\nOn 12 January 2004, 7 Detainees escaped during the night, 5 were recaptured.\n\nOn 26 January 2004 3 detainees escaped at night during a period of intense fog. An investigation 'concluded that the detainees crawled under a fence when visibility was only 10–15 meters due to fog'.\n\nOn 19 October 2004, A 26-year-old security internee died of unknown causes.\n\nOn 5 January 2005, a 31-year-old security internee died of what appears to be natural causes.\n\nIn April 2004, Compound 4. A riot broke out in which detainees threw rocks and fashioned weapons out of tent poles. Detainees held a military soldier hostage until the riot was dispelled by the use of lethal force. Four detainees were killed and six were injured. As is standard procedure in all cases of prison riots and the use of lethal force, the matter was investigated by the U.S. Army's Criminal Investigations Division. The investigation concluded that a detainee leader had incited the riot by making an accusation that camp soldiers were stepping on Korans during a search for contraband. No soldiers were found guilty of any wrongdoing during the incident.\n\nOn 5 February 2005, the tabloid paper \"New York Daily News\" reported that units at Camp Bucca organized and held a mud wrestling party on 30 October 2004. The party was organized by members of the 160th MP Battalion and attended by members of the incoming 105th MP Battalion, who were arriving to relieve the members of the 160th. At least three female GIs stripped to their undergarments and wrestled in a kiddie-pool full of sand and water in front of a crowd of male GIs, and one GI flashed her breasts. About 30 photos of the party, including one of the flasher, have been leaked to the press. The flasher, 19-year-old PFC Deanna Allen, was demoted for indecent exposure, and reportedly later discharged from the military.\n\nOn 4 March 2005, Camp Bucca was targeted by 106 mm rocket fire directed from the port of Umm Qasr. Although no military personnel were injured or killed, a Third Country National took shrapnel to the leg. Four rockets targeted Camp Bucca, but only one detonated within the boundaries of the base.\nOn 25 March 2005, a complete escape tunnel was discovered, though no prisoners had yet managed to escape.\n\nOn 1 April 2005, two Iraqis and four US prison guards were wounded in a riot at Camp Bucca near the southern town of Umm Qasr.\n\nOn 15 April 2005, a dispute broke out between two groups of detainees at one of the compounds of the Camp Bucca theater internment facility at approximately 11 pm. The fight left one detainee dead, was confined between the detainees in one compound, and was not directed at U.S. forces.\n\nOn 16 April 2005, 11 detainees escaped Camp Bucca by cutting through in the facility's exterior fence and crawling through the unfilled portion of a previously discovered escape tunnel. The compound's guards, members of the United States Air Force, were unable to see the detainees cutting through the wire due to tower location. All 11 detainees were later captured by the Iraqi police and returned to Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 19 April 2005, a 51-year-old male security detainee at Camp Bucca died of natural causes.\n\nOn 14 May 2005, a 30-year-old male detainee at Camp Bucca died from a heart attack.\n\nOn 23 May 2005, a fuel truck collapsed the roof of an escape tunnel being dug out of Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 27 July 2005, a 30-year-old male security detainee at Camp Bucca died as a result of renal failure and other organ failure due to chronic malaria.\n\nOn 28 September 2005, SGT Steve Morin Jr. assigned to the 111th Engineer Battalion and Air Force Airman 1st Class Elizabeth N. Jacobson assigned to the 17th Security Forces Squadron stationed at Camp Bucca were killed in action when an improvised explosive device detonated near their convoy vehicle near the Iraqi town of Safwan.\n\nIn October 2005, the International Committee of the Red Cross began the Family Visitation Allowance Program at Camp Bucca. The program provides monetary assistance to families of detainees held at Camp Bucca to help cover part of the traveling and hotel costs required to visit the facility. The benefits are calculated based on the distance between their home and the city of Umm Qasr. In December 2006 a similar program was initiated at Camp Shaibe, the British internment facility in Shaibah, near Al Basrah.\n\nOn 5 October 2005, a 43-year-old male security detainee died of a heart attack.\n\nOn 13 October 2005, eligible detainees at Camp Bucca, Abu Ghraib prison and Camp Cropper were allowed to vote in the Iraqi Constitutional Referendum. The rest of the country voted on 15 October 2005.\n\nOn 23 October 2005, a 73-year-old male security detainee died of natural causes at Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 25 October 2005, it was reported that SPC Christopher T. Monroe assigned to the Military Police Battalion stationed at Camp Bucca was killed when he was struck by a vehicle operated by Erinys International while pulling security for the United States convoy which was stopped due to an Iraqi vehicle which flipped over while trying to avoid the convoy in the vicinity of Al Basrah, Iraq. In October 2007, a lawsuit was filed in Houston, Texas by the father of SPC Monroe against the British private security firm Erinys International. In the lawsuit, Monroe's father alleges that his son actually died after he was struck by a vehicle operated by Erinys International. The lawsuit alleges Erinys personnel passed through a checkpoint where they were warned that there were more troops ahead of them but despite the warning proceeded in the dark at a high rate of speed with only parking lights on until they struck Monroe. Monroe was dismounted and standing guard near the 5-ton vehicle he was driving providing security after the convoy he was in stopped to render assistance to an Iraqi who had been involved in a car accident. The force of the accident sheared Monroe's right leg off and threw him 30–40 feet in the air. Monroe later \"died on a Medavac helicopter en route to Shalib Airbase\". In a statement in response to the lawsuit, a spokesperson for the company stated \"It was a very tragic accident for which Erinys and its employees have been thoroughly exonerated\".\n\nOn 5 November 2005, a 65-year-old male security detainee died of natural causes at Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 12 December 2005, nearly 90 percent of all eligible security detainees in Multi-National Forces-Iraq Theater Internment Facilities participated in the democratic vote on the Iraqi National Ballot.\n\nOn 23 December 2005, Camp Bucca received rocket fire from behind an area dubbed the \"Sniper House\"; no injuries were reported.\n\nOn 1 January 2006, 3 detainees escaped Camp Bucca by cutting through the facilities exterior fence. Two of the detainees were later captured by the Iraqi police and returned to Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 7 January 2006, SGT Nathan Field and SPC Robert Johnson assigned to the 414th Military Police Company were killed in a non-combat vehicle accident just outside Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 7 March 2006, a 36-year-old detainee died of natural causes.\n\nOn 15 March 2006, Camp Bucca received rocket fire; no injuries were reported.\n\nOn 26 March 2006, a 25-year-old detainee died as the result of injuries suffered in a detainee on detainee fight.\n\n11 May 2006, detainees initiated a multiple compound riot that included the burning of their living quarters, burning a Humvee and assaults on other detainees. The reported cause of the riot was detainees being unhappy that their housing areas were searched and that a Qu'ran with Takferi writing had been placed in a clear evidence bag that the detainees presumed was a trash bag. The riot started around 7 am in compound 10. The initial incident was stopped within an hour but around 11 am the TIF exploded with multiple compound riots. Multiple weapons were found during initial search, and based on the detainees use of weapons against the guard force, multiple weapons were confiscated during additional searches initiated because of the riot.\n\nOn 30 May 2006, Camp Bucca received rocket fire; no injuries were reported.\n\nOn 2 June 2006, the Army opened an Iraqi-based detention center training facility at Fort Leonard Wood Missouri called Camp Charlie. This new facility is modeled after the theater internment facility at Camp Bucca. A similar facility was opened at Fort Leavenworth in August 2006.\n\nOn 1 July 2006, Airman 1st Class Carl Jerome Ware Jr. of the 886th Expeditionary Security Force Squadron assigned to Camp Bucca died of non-combat related injuries. Initial reports stated that the airmen was killed by an accidental discharge of a gun being cleaned by another airman; however in February 2007, it was reported that Airman 1st Class Kyle J. Dalton, of the 15th Security Forces Squadron, Hickam Air Force Base, Hawaii, had been charged on 30 November 2007 with one count of murder and failure to obey a lawful order in relation to the shooting. Dalton also faced a charge of assault for a separate incident that occurred on 30 June 2006 involving Ware and another airman. Dalton, who was deployed in the Middle East at the time the charges were brought, had an Article 32 hearing and was Court-martialed on 23 April 2007 at Langley Air Force Base. As part of a plea bargain deal, Dalton pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and violating a lawful general regulation by drawing or aiming a firearm when deadly force was unnecessary. Dalton was sentenced to 10 years in prison, given a dishonorable discharge, reduced in rank from Senior Airman to Airman Basic and ordered to forfeit all pay and allowances. Dalton admitted to the court that he tracked Ware with his pistol in the barracks and pulled the trigger thinking the weapon was unloaded. He also admitted that he had previously aimed a loaded M-4 carbine at another airman.\n\nIn July 2006, it was announced that the Army's inspector general had requested an investigation to determine if an Anti-Deficiency Act violation occurred during the building of the detention facility. The Anti-Deficiency Act provides that no one can obligate the Government to make payments for which money has not already been authorized. The inspector general's report was released to Congress on 30 January 2007 and in it concluded: \"Army personnel associated with funding of Phases I and II construction of the Internment Facility at Camp Bucca, Iraq, did not implement sufficient controls to ensure military compliance with applicable laws and regulations. As a result, there were two ADA violations with the FY 2004 Army Operation and Maintenance Appropriation. DoD OGC (Office of General Counsel) is completing its review and expects to sign out the report to the DoD Comptroller in the second quarter of FY 2007.\"\n\nOn 12 October 2006, an Iraqi detainee died from a heart attack. The detainee had been hospitalized since 5 October after complaining of chest pains. An autopsy will be performed to determine the cause of death.\n\nOn 16 October, two airmen from the 586th Expeditionary Security Forces Squadron Area Security Operations team assigned to Camp Bucca suffered injuries when an improvised explosive device exploded near their Humvee in the vicinity of Safwan. Both airmen survived the attack and were later awarded the Purple Heart medal.\n\nOn 19 October 2006, an Iraqi detainee died from natural causes.\n\nOn 25 November 2006, American forces announced that a detainee died of natural causes. The detainee had been hospitalized since 23 November after complaining of chest pains.\n\nOn 4 December 2006, American forces announced that a detainee died of natural causes. The detainee had been treated in the facility's hospital since 17 November 2006 for kidney and heart problems. Including two detainees that died the previous week at Camp Cropper, this was the fourth detainee in coalition custody to die within a two-week period.\n\nOn 24 December 2006, Two Detainees attempted an escape from one of the U.S. Navy staffed compounds during the dense seasonal fog. One of detainees was allegedly an I.E.D. maker.\n\nOn 17 January 2007, US Navy Petty Officer Second Class Joseph D. Alomar, a member of Navy Provisional Detainee BN 2, assigned to Camp Bucca died of non-combat related injuries. The sailor is reported to have died from a gunshot wound to the head.\n\nOn 11 February 2007 SPC Dennis L. Sellen Jr. of the 1st Battalion, 185th Infantry Regiment was accidentally shot and killed by a fellow soldier who was cleaning his weapon after a mission. The incident is currently being investigated.\n\nOn 2 March 2007 SPC Christopher D. Young, 20, of Los Angeles, Calif., died in Safwan, Iraq, of wounds sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. He was assigned to Company C, 3rd Battalion, 160th Infantry Regiment, California Army National Guard, San Pedro, California.\n\nOn 15 March 2007 military officials announced plans to once again expand Camp Bucca and Camp Cropper. Officials stated that this increase in capacity would be necessary to handle the detainees generated from the increased security operations in Baghdad. At the time of the report, Camp Bucca's detainee population stood at 13,800.\n\nOn 26 April 2007, an Iraqi detainee died from what MNFI reports as injuries sustained during an apparent assault by other detainees. He is reported to have been the sixth detainee to have died in MNF-I TIFs as a result of detainee on detainee violence in the past year.\n\nOn 9 June 2007, 6 detainees were killed, 68 wounded and one Iraqi Corrections Officer was wounded when a rocket struck Compound 8, in the Theater Internment Facility located at Camp Bucca. On 10 June 2007, a seventh detainee, who had been medically evacuated to Balad Air Base, died from wounds he sustained in the attack. On 23 June 2007 an eighth detainee who had been hospitalized in critical condition since the attack, died from cardiac arrest.\n\nOn 21 June 2007 a security detainee died of cardiac arrest during a routine medical transfer from Camp Cropper to Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 25 June 2007 a soldier assigned to the 178th Infantry was injured when the vehicle he was driving drove over a buried explosive.\n\nOn 1 July 2007, a detainee died from what is being reported as natural causes while in the intensive care unit at the Theater Internment Facility hospital at Camp Bucca.\n\nOn 12 July 2007, a detainee died from what is being reported as injuries suffered in an assault by other detainees. This is the second detainee in coalition forces custody to die from detainee on detainee violence within a week. On the same day, the Associated Press reported that Camp Bucca was among several sites in Iraq that had sensitive information posted on non-secure web sites. The Camp Bucca documents, posted on the web site of CH2M Hill Companies of Meridian, Colorado revealed locations of where prisoners are held, locations of fuel tanks, and the locations of security fences, guard towers and other security measures. The company has subsequently added password protection to its site.\n\nIn August 2007, two separate news articles reported Camp Bucca's detainee populate stood at approximately 20,000 inmates.\n\nIn October 2007, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) announced it had suspended its visits to Camp Bucca due to the deteriorating security situation in the area. The ICRC visits all detention facilities in Iraq to monitor the conditions detainees are receiving and make recommendations where they perceive improvements could be made. To maintain their neutral status, they refuse coalition security when traveling in Iraq, which causes them to occasionally suspend visits when they deem conditions too hazardous for their personnel.\n\nOn 31 October 2007, it was announced that Camp Bucca would be expanded once again to increase its capacity from 20,000 to 30,000 detainees. The $110 million project will be overseen by The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and would include $17.6 million retrofit of \"13 existing compounds to add concrete pads to prevent tunneling, better segregation areas, and better shower and latrine facilities\" as well as new housing, a waste water treatment plant, a water treatment plant and a $3.2 million brick factory for prisoner labor.\n\nOn 27 Oct 2007, a Security Team was traveling from Umm Qsar when they came under attack by RPGs. One US Soldier was killed and three US military members were injured.\n\nOn 20 November 2007, a security convoy operated by personnel from the 887th ESFS was traveling north of Safwaan city, Iraq from Camp Bucca was struck by an IED.\n\nOn 23 November 2007, a riot originated in compound 31 and spread to compound 32. The guards were able to quell the riots and there were no casualties.\n\nOn 1 January 2008, the base was attacked with rocket fire launched from the nearby city of Umm Qasr and no injuries were reported. British counter artillery returned fire as a show of force. The returned fire landed in empty desert close to Umm Qasr. USAF QRF units also responded to search the area for the personnel responsible for launching the rockets at the base.\n\nOn 8 January 2008, a security convoy operated by personnel from the 887th ESFS traveling to Umm Qasr, Iraq from Camp Bucca was struck by an EFP/IED, injuring three coalition forces and a local national.\n\nOn 14 February 2008, The 72nd Military Police Company arrived at Camp Bucca, They took over control of the Detainee Air Transportation Mission (DAT) from the USAF. \n\nOn 24 February 2008, Camp Bucca was attacked with rocket fire that killed one AAFES employee and wounded several other civilian contractors. The rocket attack came less than a week after a convoy from Camp Bucca was attacked by an improvised explosive device. No one was seriously injured in that attack.\n\nOn 13 June 2008, members of the 887 ESFS, while standing down on a possible IED, came under a complex attack which included a VBIED. This type of attack was the first of its kind reported near Camp Bucca, and no injuries were reported.\n\nIn August 2008, it was announced that 6 sailors had been charged and would face courts-martial for abusing detainees at Camp Bucca. The abuse allegedly occurred on 14 May and involved beatings of two detainees and the sealing of eight detainees in a cell filled with pepper spray while the cells' ventilation was secured. The abuse apparently occurred after some detainees attacked guards, spitting on them and throwing containers filled with human waste at them. Seven other sailors received non-judicial punishment for failing to report the incidents. Two had their charges dismissed, and the remainder were reduced in rank or faced suspended punishment. In November 2008, the 6 sailors faced an article 32 hearing at Naval Air Station Jacksonville on charges of conspiracy, cruelty and maltreatment and making false official statements. Damage Controlman 2nd Class Adam M. White, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and assault and was sentenced to 89 days confinement and reduction of two pay grades. Adams claims he and other sailors participated in the beating of two detainees at the direction of Chief Aviation Structural Mechanic Tracy Necaise because the prisoners spit and threw feces at guards. Necaise's attorney blamed upper-level Navy officers for the incident because they assigned the sailors to Camp Bucca without any prior experience working in law enforcement or detention facilities. Necaise and the remaining sailors pleaded not guilty and could face trial in 2009.\n\nOn 17 September 2009 Camp Bucca closed down detainee operations.\n\nThe \"SUPERMAX\" security row known as \"Waterfront\" manned by the US Navy NPDB (Naval Provisional Detainee Battalion) was in charge of the custody of the most dangerous detainees, and the last to be closed, with Compound 16 having the remaining 180 detainees either transferred to the U.S. military's Camp Cropper detention facility near Baghdad International Airport (BIAP) or to an Iraqi, Navy, and Army manned prison at Camp Taji north of Baghdad.\n\nNPDB 6 was attached to the US Army 306th Military Police Battalion, commanded by LTC Kenneth King. This was the last Navy unit to handle detainee operations in Camp Bucca.\n\nCamp Bucca has been described as playing an important role in shaping the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. The detention of large numbers of Jihadists and ex-Ba’athists during the Iraqi insurgency provided them with the opportunity to forge alliances and learn from each other, combining the ideological fervour of the former with the organizational skills of the latter. Former Camp Bucca detainees who went on to become leaders in the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant include Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, detained between 2005 and 2010 during the Iraq conflict and who is now an ISIS senior leader, its chief spokesman and is said to be running the entire country of Syria. Al-Adnani, in 2014, called for lone wolf attacks throughout the world and is thought to be the inspiration for terrorist attacks throughout France. He was killed in an airstrike in Northern Syria on 31 August 2016. Others include Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the ISIL; Abu Muslim al-Turkmani, al-Baghdadi's deputy; Haji Bakr, who spearheaded ISIL's expansion into Syria; Abu Abdulrahman al-Bilawi, the military leader responsible for planning the seizure of Mosul; and Abu Ayman al-Iraqi, another senior military leader. Abu Mohammad al-Julani, who founded the Syrian Al Qaeda affiliate al-Nusra Front, was also a Camp Bucca detainee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44257822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44257822", "title": "Christian Abolitionism", "text": "Christian Abolitionism\n\nAlthough many Enlightenment philosophers opposed slavery, it was Christian activists, attracted by strong religious elements, who initiated and organized an abolitionist movement. Throughout Europe and the United States, Christians, usually from 'un-institutional' Christian faith movements, not directly connected with traditional state churches, or \"non-conformist\" believers within established churches, were to be found at the forefront of the abolitionist movements.\n\nIn particular, the effects of the Second Great Awakening resulted in many evangelicals working to see the theoretical Christian view, that all people are essentially equal, made more of a practical reality. Freedom of expression within the Western world also helped in enabling opportunity to express their position. Prominent among these abolitionists was Parliamentarian William Wilberforce in England, who wrote in his diary when he was 28 that, \"God Almighty has set before me two great objects, the suppression of the Slave Trade and Reformation of Morals.\" With others he labored, despite determined opposition, to finally abolish the British slave trade. English preacher Charles Spurgeon had some of his sermons burned in America due to his censure of slavery, calling it \"the foulest blot\" and which \"may have to be washed out in blood.\" Methodist founder John Wesley denounced human bondage as \"the sum of all villainies,\" and detailed its abuses. In Georgia, primitive Methodists united with brethren elsewhere in condemning slavery. Many evangelical leaders in the United States such as Presbyterian Charles Finney and Theodore Weld, and women such as Harriet Beecher Stowe (daughter of abolitionist Lyman Beecher) and Sojourner Truth motivated hearers to support abolition. Finney preached that slavery was a moral sin, and so supported its elimination. \"I had made up my mind on the question of slavery, and was exceedingly anxious to arouse public attention to the subject. In my prayers and preaching, I so often alluded to slavery, and denounced it. Repentance from slavery was required of souls, once enlightened of the subject, while continued support of the system incurred \"the greatest guilt\" upon them.\n\nQuakers in particular were early leaders in abolitionism. In 1688 Dutch Quakers in Germantown, Pennsylvania, sent an antislavery petition to the Monthly Meeting of Quakers. By 1727 British Quakers had expressed their official disapproval of the slave trade. Three Quaker abolitionists, Benjamin Lay, John Woolman, and Anthony Benezet, devoted their lives to the abolitionist effort from the 1730s to the 1760s, with Lay founding the Negro School in 1770, which would serve more than 250 pupils. In June 1783 a petition from the London Yearly Meeting and signed by over 300 Quakers was presented to Parliament protesting the slave trade.\n\nIn 1787 the Society for Effecting the Abolition of the Slave Trade was formed, with 9 of the 12 founder members being Quakers. During the same year, William Wilberforce was persuaded to take up their cause; as an MP, Wilberforce was able to introduce a bill to abolish the slave trade. Wilberforce first attempted to abolish the trade in 1791, but could only muster half the necessary votes; however, after transferring his support to the Whigs, it became an election issue. Abolitionist pressure had changed popular opinion, and in the 1806 election enough abolitionists entered parliament for Wilberforce to be able to see the passing of the Slave Trade Act 1807. The Royal Navy subsequently declared that the slave trade was equal to piracy, the West Africa Squadron choosing to seize ships involved in the transfer of slaves and liberate the slaves on board, effectively crippling the transatlantic trade. Through abolitionist efforts, popular opinion continued to mount against slavery, and in 1833 slavery itself was outlawed throughout the British Empire – at that time containing roughly 1/6 of the world's population (rising to 1/4 towards the end of the century).\n\nIn the United States, the abolition movement faced much opposition. Bertram Wyatt-Brown notes that the appearance of the Christian abolitionist movement \"with its religious ideology alarmed newsmen, politicians, and ordinary citizens. They angrily predicted the endangerment of secular democracy, the mongrelization, as it was called, of white society, and the destruction of the federal union. Speakers at huge rallies and editors of conservative papers in the North denounced these newcomers to radical reform as the same old “church-and-state” zealots, who tried to shut down post offices, taverns, carriage companies, shops, and other public places on Sundays. Mob violence sometimes ensued.\"\n\nA postal campaign in 1835 by the American Anti-Slavery Society (AA-SS) – founded by African-American Presbyterian clergyman Theodore S. Wright – sent bundles of tracts and newspapers (over 100,000) to prominent clerical, legal, and political figures throughout the whole country, and culminated in massive demonstrations throughout the North and South. In attempting to stop these mailings, New York Postmaster Samuel L. Gouverneur unsuccessfully requested the AA-SS to cease sending it to the South. He therefore decided that he would “aid in preserving the public peace” by refusing to allow the mails to carry abolition pamphlets to the South himself, with the new Postmaster General Amos Kendall affirming, even though he admitted he had no legal authority to do so. This resulted in the AA-SS resorting to other and clandestine means of dissemination.\n\nDespite such determined opposition, many Methodist, Baptist, and Presbyterian members freed their slaves and sponsored black congregations, in which many black ministers encouraged slaves to believe that freedom could be gained during their lifetime. After a great revival occurred in 1801 at Cane Ridge, Kentucky, American Methodists made anti-slavery sentiments a condition of church membership. Abolitionist writings, such as \"A Condensed Anti-Slavery Bible Argument\" (1845) by George Bourne, and \"God Against Slavery\" (1857) by George B. Cheever, used the Bible, logic and reason extensively in contending against the institution of slavery, and in particular the chattel form of it as seen in the South. In Cheever's speech entitled, \"The Fire and Hammer of God’s Word Against the Sin of Slavery\", his desire for eliminating the crime of slaveholding is clear, as he goes so far as to address it to the President.\n\nOther Protestant missionaries of the Great Awakening initially opposed slavery in the South, but by the early decades of the 19th century, many Baptist and Methodist preachers in the South had come to an accommodation with it in order to evangelize the farmers and workers. Disagreements between the newer way of thinking and the old often created schisms within denominations at the time. Differences in views toward slavery resulted in the Baptist and Methodist churches dividing into regional associations by the beginning of the Civil War.\n\nRoman Catholic statements also became increasingly vehement against slavery during this era. In 1741 Pope Benedict XIV condemned slavery generally. In 1815 Pope Pius VII demanded of the Congress of Vienna the suppression of the slave trade. In the Bull of Canonization of Peter Claver, one of the most illustrious adversaries of slavery, Pope Pius IX branded the \"supreme villainy\" (\"summum nefas\") of the slave traders;\n\nIn 1839 Pope Gregory XVI condemned the slave trade in \"In supremo apostolatus\"; and in 1888 Pope Leo XIII condemned slavery in In Plurimis.\n\nRoman Catholic efforts extended to the Americas. The Roman Catholic leader of the Irish in Ireland, Daniel O'Connell, supported the abolition of slavery in the British Empire and in America. With the black abolitionist Charles Lenox Remond, and the temperance priest Theobold Mathew, he organized a petition with 60,000 signatures urging the Irish of the United States to support abolition. O'Connell also spoke in the United States for abolition.\n\nPreceding such, and while not explicitly expressing an abolitionist point of view, the Portuguese Dominican Gaspar da Cruz in 1569 strongly criticized the Portuguese traffic in Chinese slaves, explaining that any arguments by the slave traders that they \"legally\" purchased already-enslaved children were bogus.\n\nIn 1917, the Roman Catholic Church's canon law was officially expanded to specify that \"selling a human being into slavery or for any other evil purpose\" is a crime.\n"}
{"id": "37903130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37903130", "title": "Clackamas Town Center shooting", "text": "Clackamas Town Center shooting\n\nOn December 11, 2012, a shooting occurred at the Clackamas Town Center in unincorporated Clackamas County, outside the city of Portland, Oregon, United States. The gunman, 22-year-old Jacob Tyler Roberts, ran into the shopping center wearing tactical clothing and a hockey mask and opened fire on shoppers and employees with a stolen AR-15. He fired a total of 17 shots, killing two people and seriously wounding a third. Having attempted to reload his weapon and dropping three magazines, Roberts entered a stairwell and committed suicide after descending one level. He had no connection to any of his victims, and it was believed to be a random act of violence. The Clackamas Town Center has a posted policy of prohibiting firearms on the premises.\n\nSometime prior to the shooting, Roberts is stated to have stolen a AR-15 rifle from an acquaintance. Immediately before the shooting, he visited a friend who lived two miles away from the Clackamas Town Center, smoked marijuana with him, and claimed that he was moving to Hawaii. He drove to the mall sometime later and parked at the south side between Macy's and Chipotle Mexican Grill. He ran into the mall through Macy's department store at 3:28 p.m., wearing a white hockey mask and a load-bearing vest and armed with the AR-15. He was also carrying five loaded magazines, one of which he accidentally dropped in the parking lot while entering the mall.\n\nRoberts legally bought four additional standard capacity 30-round ammunition magazines and the ammunition to fill them at three local stores, including a Walmart, The Gunbroker, and Wholesale Sports Outdoor Outfitters. When he stole the unsecured AR-15 from a friend, it was loaded with a standard capacity 30-round ammunition magazine. Between 8,000 and 10,000 people were inside the mall at the time. People who first saw him run into the mall believed the tactical clothing and hockey mask were a paintball outfit and that the rifle was a toy.\n\nStanding in a large atrium, Roberts first opened fire at the mall's food court that was across from him at his left. The first person shot was 54-year-old shopper Cindy Ann Yuille, a hospice nurse and mother of two who was shot in the back; she died despite efforts of bystanders to treat her wound. 15-year-old Kristina Shevchenko, who was walking through the mall with her friend to reach the Town Center MAX station, was the second person to be shot; she received a bullet to the chest, but she survived and made it out of the mall, where she was treated for her gunshot wound. The final victim was 46-year-old father of two and youth sports coach Steven Forsyth, who was sitting by a rented kiosk and talking with his father on his cell phone when he was shot in the head and killed.\n\nAt this point, hundreds of people fled the mall after hearing the gunshots, but many remained inside and dashed to cover. Roberts headed further toward the food court, firing at 16-year-old employee Alina Pavlenko, who was over 100 feet away, but missed. He also dropped three other magazines in his possession. He then turned back and headed toward a JCPenney store. He attempted to reload the AR-15 at that point, but was unable to do so, the weapon having apparently jammed. During that time, Nick Meli, a concealed carry permit holder, drew his Glock 22, claimed to have taken aim at Roberts, but did not fire since there was a bystander behind Roberts. Meli claims that Roberts saw him and that this may have contributed to Roberts' decision to commit suicide.\n\nRoberts then ran into a back storage corridor, where he encountered employee Rok Sang Kim, who had returned from recycling boxes and therefore hadn't heard the gunfire. Roberts pointed the rifle at him, but didn't shoot him, instead running down a flight of stairs onto a lower floor. There, he committed suicide at 3:50 p.m. In the chaos of the first few minutes after the shooting, there were expectations of mass casualties. Police responded to the scene minutes later and spent the following hours searching the mall for hiding civilians, injured victims, and a possible second shooter, while dozens of ambulances arrived with the expectations of treating dozens of wounded victims, but treated only Kristina Shevchenko for a serious gunshot wound. Roberts fired only seventeen rounds during the entire shooting, including the one to kill himself. An additional 128 rounds were found in the magazines he dropped and on his person.\n\nBy the next day, the mall was cleared of civilians, but continued to remain under lock-down. It is believed Roberts targeted random people and did not have a specific target in mind.\n\nTwo people were killed in the shooting, 54-year-old Cindy Ann Yuille and 45-year-old Steven Forsyth. A third person, 15-year-old Kristina Shevchenko, was shot in the side of the chest and seriously injured, but survived. Several others also suffered minor bruises and scrapes suffered while fleeing.\n\nJacob Tyler Roberts (March 16, 1990 – December 11, 2012) was identified as the sole perpetrator of the shooting. He lived in the Lents neighborhood in southeast Portland. Roberts was raised by his aunt Tami Roberts; his biological mother, Teresa Anne Roberts, died from cancer in February 1993, shortly before his third birthday. Court records and family indicated that the identity of his father is unknown. He had been estranged from his aunt Tami Roberts since the time he was 18 years of age, though the aunt declined to comment on the reason, saying only that it was unrelated to an $18,000 inheritance from Roberts's grandmother that court documents allegedly show Tami Roberts misappropriated. He attended Milwaukie High School in Milwaukie, Oregon for the first three years and later transferred during his senior year to Oregon City High School in Oregon City, Oregon, graduating in 2008. He attended Clackamas Community College in 2009.\n\nTwo years prior to the shooting, Roberts worked at a gyro restaurant in downtown Portland, where he was well-liked by his employer. Roberts lived with a few roommates in a house ten minutes away from the shopping center. He had plans of joining the United States Marine Corps, but he abandoned these dreams after a bicycle accident that broke his foot. Within a week prior to the shooting, he had broken up with his girlfriend, sold his belongings, resigned from his job, and alleged to his friends and colleagues that he was planning to move to Hawaii. He also purchased at least four magazines and hundreds of rounds of ammunition from local stores during that same timeline.\n\nWhen President Barack Obama delivered a speech regarding the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, he mentioned other shooting rampages that occurred in the U.S. within previous months, including the incident at the Clackamas Town Center. On March 28, 2013, a candlelight vigil was held at the mall, organized against gun violence and one of more than 120 events held nationwide to commemorate the National Day of Action to Reduce Gun Violence.\n"}
{"id": "339820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339820", "title": "Clive Hamilton", "text": "Clive Hamilton\n\nClive Charles Hamilton AM FRSA (born 12 March 1953) is an Australian public intellectual and Professor of Public Ethics at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE) and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at Charles Sturt University. He is a member of the Board of the Climate Change Authority of the Australian Government, and is the Founder and former Executive Director of The Australia Institute. He regularly appears in the Australian media and contributes to public policy debates. Hamilton was granted the award of Member of the Order of Australia on 8 June 2009 for \"service to public debate and policy development, particularly in the fields of climate change, sustainability and societal trends\".\n\nHamilton graduated from the Australian National University with a Bachelor of Arts in history, psychology and pure mathematics in 1975 and completed a Bachelor of Economics with First Class Honours from the University of Sydney in 1979. He was an Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his Doctorate at the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex in 1984. His thesis was titled \"A general equilibrium model of South Korean development\".\n\nHe was a Postdoctoral Fellow and Research Fellow at the Research School of Pacific Studies of the Australian National University from 1984 to 1988 and the Director of the Graduate Program in the Economics of the Development at the National Centre for Development Studies of the Australian National University from 1986 to 1988. From 1994 to 1997 he was a Senior Lecturer in Public Policy and from 1997 to 2002 he was a Fellow in Public Policy at the Australian National University and he was a Visiting Fellow of the National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health in 2004.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1990 he was a Senior Research Economist at the Bureau of Industry Economics of the Federal Department of Industry, Science and Resources (now the Productivity Commission).\n\nHamilton founded the Australia Institute in 1993 and was Executive Director until 2008.\n\nHe has been an Academic Visitor at Oxford Uehiro Centre, a Visiting Lecturer at the Oxford Martin School and a Visiting Professor at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Oxford.\n\nHe is a Life Member of Clare Hall, University of Cambridge and was a Visiting Scholar of the Department of Land Economy of the University of Cambridge.\n\nHe was a Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of Yale University.\n\nHamilton has written about the issue of climate change politics over a period of some 15 years. His book \"Requiem for a Species\" (Earthscan 2010) explores climate change denial and its implications. His earlier books, \"Scorcher\" (2007) and \"Running from the Storm\" (2001), were critical of the Australian Government's efforts, especially in relation to the Kyoto Protocol. Hamilton's general view about climate change is that the \"world is on a path to a very unpleasant future and it is too late to stop it\". Hamilton argues that to believe anything else is to deny the climate change truth and engage in wishful thinking.\n\nHamilton has written several books relating to consumerism and overconsumption. \"Growth Fetish\" (2003) became an Australian best-seller and suggests that the unthinking pursuit of economic growth has become a fetish, which has not led to any real improvements in levels of happiness. In \"Growth Fetish\", Hamilton advocates the politics of wellbeing over economic growth. In \"\" (2005), Hamilton describes how these themes play out at a personal level, as he explores the shallowness of modern consumer life. In \"What's Left?\" (2006) Hamilton comments on topics written about in \"Growth Fetish\" and \"Affluenza\". He argues that there is an emergence of new types of \"alienation and exploitation\", in the form of ravages of the free market, which have \"robbed life of its meaning\". \"\" (2008) relates to the nature and consequences of advanced consumer capitalism. In the book Hamilton proposes a system of \"post-secular ethics\" that will serve as a challenge to the \"moral malaise\" occasioned by the \"freedom of the marketplace\".\n\n\"\", edited with Sarah Maddison was published in 2007.\n\nIn February 2018 Hamilton published the book \"Silent Invasion: China's influence in Australia\" on the increasing involvement of the Chinese Communist Party in Australian civil society and politics.\n\nOn 23 October 2009, Hamilton was announced as the Australian Greens candidate for the by-election in the federal seat of Higgins. He ran against nine others for the seat, and came second, receiving 32.40 percent of primary votes and 39.77 percent of preferred votes. The Australian Labor Party did not run a candidate in the election.\n\nHamilton is a supporter of internet censorship in Australia.\n\nBooks by Clive Hamilton include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9869851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9869851", "title": "Committee on International Relations (University of Chicago)", "text": "Committee on International Relations (University of Chicago)\n\nThe Committee on International Relations (CIR) is a one-year master's degree graduate program in the Division of Social Sciences at the University of Chicago. It is the oldest international relations graduate program in the United States.\n\nCIR was founded in 1928 by a group of University of Chicago professors, including Hans Morgenthau and Quincy Wright. While CIR is known worldwide for one of the most distinguished programs in the study of international security, CIR faculty and students are also well known for academic work in international political economy, international institutions, globalization, international law, human rights, comparative politics, development and regional studies.\n\nApplicants from CIR come from around the world; about 25 percent of applications and accepted students are from outside the United States. Every year, CIR receives over 300 applicants for roughly 40-50 spots. In the admissions process, applicants are required to provide the standard CIR application, letters of recommendations, a personal statement, a 10-20 page writing sample, and their GRE scores. International applicants from non-English speaking countries also have to provide TOEFL or IELTS scores as all coursework is conducted in American English. Applicants typically have a GPA of 3.5 (on a 4.0 scale) or higher and must have a BA degree (or similar) from an accredited university. In addition to an applicant's academic background, relevant work experience and fit with the program are also taken into account.\n\nApplications are evaluated by an admissions committee which includes CIR preceptors and CIR faculty.\n\nThe combination of intellectual diversity and analytical strength provide a stimulating environment for CIR students. The small size and intellectual rigor of the program ensure that students with differing perspectives will challenge each other and come to a more sophisticated understanding of the complicated interaction between the realities of international politics and international economics. The program provides excellent preparation for students, whether they choose to continue their graduate studies in leading doctoral programs, or decide to work in government or the private sector.\n\nEach CIR graduate student is assigned a preceptor based on their own disciplinary and research interests in international relations, such as war, regional studies, or international economics.\n\nStudents take three credited courses per quarter, which constitutes a full-load at the University of Chicago. Of the nine total courses, two are required \"Core\" classes, including a course on international security and another on international political economy. CIR students also take three mandatory non-credit classes, including two MA thesis workshops in the Fall and Winter quarters and a class taught by the CIR preceptors called \"Perspectives on International Relations\" in the Fall quarter. With the remaining seven credited courses, students are allowed to take any graduate-level course, with the following three restrictions: (1) seven of the nine courses must be on the CIR-approved course list, (2) at least three courses must be within the Division of Social Sciences, and (3) three courses must be taken in two of the four possible fields of study.\n\n\nCIR students must also complete a thesis under the guidance of their preceptor and a faculty adviser of their choosing. Students will be aided by the two required MA thesis workshop classes in the Fall and Winter quarters. Each thesis is expected to be between 35-45 pages in length and below 14,000 words.\n\nCIR students who wish to pursue a particular research topic in greater depth than is possible in one year may pursue the second-year specialization program. Specialization is best designed for students who plan to continue with graduate studies in a Ph.D. program at the University of Chicago or elsewhere. Specialization is competitive; on average 4-6 students apply, and 2-4 are accepted.\n\nCIR offers joint degrees with different programs and schools at the University of Chicago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "521965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521965", "title": "Continuity of government", "text": "Continuity of government\n\nContinuity of government (COG) is the principle of establishing defined procedures that allow a government to continue its essential operations in case of a catastrophic event such as nuclear war.\n\nCOG was developed by the British government before and during World War II to counter threats, such as that of the Luftwaffe bombing during the Battle of Britain. The need for continuity of government plans gained new urgency with nuclear proliferation.\n\nDuring and after the Cold War countries developed such plans to avoid (or minimize) confusion and disorder due to a power vacuum in the aftermath of a nuclear attack.\n\nIn the US at least, COG is no longer limited to nuclear emergencies; the Continuity of Operations Plan was activated following the September 11 attacks.\n\nCanada built numerous nuclear bunkers across the country, nicknamed \"Diefenbunkers\" in a play on the last name of then-Prime Minister John Diefenbaker. In 2016, the Privy Council Office made an agreement with the Department of National Defence to open two bunkers for government officials amid the ongoing North Korean nuclear crisis.\n\nThe People's Republic of China (PRC) once operated Underground Project 131, intended to be the PLA headquarters in Hubei during a nuclear conflict. Built due to the Sino-Soviet split during that portion of the Cold War, in 1981, the Project 131 site was turned over to the civilian authorities of the prefecture-level city of Xianning, where it is located.\n\nThe K-116 facility under Zlíchov hill in western Prague was designated to house the Czechoslovak government in case of nuclear attack (together with the K-9 facility in Jihlava) and might still be used as the emergency headquarters of the Czech government and military.\n\nDuring the Cold War, Denmark built two bunker complexes, named REGAN Vest and REGAN Øst (Danish: \"REGeringsANlæg\", translated: \"Government Complex West and Government Complex East\"), in Jutland and Zealand respectively. The idea was to have half of the government and the royal family in one bunker, and the other half in the other, allowing continuity of government, even if one of the bunkers were destroyed or cut off.\n\nThe Centre d'Opération des Forces Aériennes Stratégiques (COFAS) is a hardened command centre for French nuclear forces at Taverny Air Base in Taverny, Val d'Oise. The alternate national command center is located at Mont Verdun near Lyon.\n\nThe hardened headquarters of Force Océanique Stratégique (FOST), France's nuclear SSBN fleet, is at Houilles, Yvelines.\n\nGermany operated a government bunker (Regierungsbunker) to house the German government, parliament and all federal personnel needed to keep the government working in the event of war or severe crisis. It was decommissioned in 1997.\n\nIn Ireland, the National Security Committee (NSC) is the conduit for officials to communicate with the Taoiseach (Prime Minister) and/or cabinet members if the normal channel of communication with their minister became unavailable. Drafts of emergency powers legislation have been drawn up in secret, including legislation to deal with circumstances such as an attack on cabinet involving numerous deaths. \n\nDuring the period of the Cold War, it was envisaged that cabinet ministers, senior civil servants and military advisers would use an underground nuclear bunker at Custume Barracks in Athlone in the event of a nuclear exchange. The bunker was equipped with a command and control centre with communications equipment – which had a hotline to the British government in Whitehall – a map room pointing out important areas for protection, kitchen, bedroom and bathroom facilities.\n\nThe New Zealand government believes the most likely disaster scenario to affect the government is a large earthquake in Wellington. The government has plans to move Parliament and essential staff to Devonport Naval Base in Auckland if such an event occurs.\n\nThe Norwegian government operates a nuclear bunker called Sentralanlegget in Buskerud County. The bunker is meant to accommodate the Norwegian Royal Family and the government in case of a nuclear/military attack on the nation, and also function as a wartime headquarters. There is also a bunker beneath Høyblokka in downtown Oslo.\n\nVery little, in the public domain, is known about Russia's COG plans. One sprawling underground facility residing in tunnels cut into Mount Yamantau is likely to be related to the survival of Russia's government, given its size and decades long construction history, with a construction start during the rule of Leonid Brezhnev (1964–82). KGB defector Colonel Oleg Gordievsky states that an organization, known as Directorate 15, was (or is) tasked with building and maintaining a network of hundreds of underground command bunkers for the Soviet leadership; this includes the vast site beneath Yamantau Mountain, which is often called Mezhgorye / Межго́рье after the closed city that is located nearby. However, there is speculation, due to its proximity to Chelyabinsk-70, that Yamantau is a 400-square-mile underground complex which houses nuclear warheads, missiles, launch controls, and several nuclear weapons factories designed to continue production after a hypothetical nuclear war begins.\n\nThe second command and control center in the Urals, after Yamantau, is similarly speculated to be underground and located near, or under, Kosvinsky Kamen. The site is believed to host the Russian Strategic Rocket Forces alternate command post, a post for the general staff built to compensate for the vulnerability of older Soviet era command posts in the Moscow region. In spite of this, the primary command posts for the Strategic Rocket Forces remains Kuntsevo in Moscow and the secondary is the Kosvinsky Mountain in the Urals. The facility at Kosvinsky, finished in early 1996, was designed to resist US earth-penetrating warheads and serves a similar role as the American Cheyenne Mountain Complex.\n\nFurther command centers, according to globalsecurity.org, include one near Chekhov, which is the Russian General Staff wartime command post, buried deep underground, and Sharapovo about south of Moscow, built in the 1950s, Sharapovo is believed to have been the primary backup command center for the Soviet era leadership. Both Chekhov and Sharapovo are each suggested to have the capability to accommodate about 30,000 individuals, As an alternative to Sharapovo, a secondary political leadership base is located at Chaadayevka, some 650 kilometers southeast of Moscow near the city of Penza.\n\nThere is also said to be as many as 12 underground levels beneath the Russian capital of Moscow to protect the government in the Kremlin, known as the Main Directorate of special programs of the President (Glavnoye Upravlenie Specialnih Program: GUSP) the direct successor of the 15th Directorate of the KGB, which was established in 1977, GUSP is said to oversee, amongst other sites, a parallel track line alongside the Moscow metro, known as the 'Kremlin line' Metro-2 or D-6 to be used in an emergency. Two destinations of this system are suggested to be the old KGB headquarters, now the FSB headquarters, at Lubyanka Square, and the second being regarded as an enormous underground leadership bunker adjacent to Moscow State University. Another alleged subterranean destination, apart from the aforementioned underground town at Ramenki/Moscow State University is \"Vnukovo-2\" airport. Despite official Russian state ambiguity, it is speculated that many of the Moscow bunkers are linked by an underground railway line.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Klara skyddsrum (\"Klara shelter\" or \"Klara bunker\") was built underneath Stockholm. The bunker is designed to accommodate two thirds of the government and between 8,000 and 12,000 civilians in the case of a military attack on Stockholm. It is designed as a very large, two-story oval, with multiple entrances. During peace time, parts of it are used as a parking garage.\nSweden built over 65,000 fallout shelters in regular houses, every county had at least one large hard-rock underground bunker that controlled a number of smaller bunkers that was located in the municipality's .\n\nThere is little public knowledge about continuity of government in Turkey. The cabinet and presidential offices, based in the capital of Ankara, have secondary sites in İstanbul and İzmir.\n\nThe primary British COG headquarters is at the Ministry of Defence in Whitehall. The Central Government War Headquarters was previously maintained in a quarry complex near Corsham, Wiltshire. The above-ground support facility was RAF Rudloe Manor.\n\nService command centres are Northwood for the Royal Navy Trident SSBN force, and RAF High Wycombe for the Royal Air Force.\n\nContinuity of the national government was first threatened in late 1776, when British forces advanced toward the Continental capital at Philadelphia. On December 9 the Continental Congress passed a resolution in anticipation of a British capture:\n\nThe Congress was adjourned as planned three days later. Other relocations followed during the course of the Revolutionary War.\n\nFor most of its existence, the United States operated without a standing continuity plan. When British forces burned Washington in 1814, Secretary of State James Monroe received only a few hours' notice to remove the government records. Although his staff saved many valuable records, much was nonetheless destroyed, and the next administration encountered a great deal of confusion.\n\nIn 1952 President Truman ordered all federal offices to develop their own continuity plans for the event of a civil defense emergency. Plans have been maintained and adapted since then, at times requiring the construction of secret facilities such as the emergency Congress facility in Greenbrier County, West Virginia. The current continuity policy is defined in National Security Policy Directive 51 and its implementation plan. The continuity plan was activated for the first time during the September 11, 2001 attacks.\n\nUK-specific:\n\nUS-specific:\n\n"}
{"id": "6212022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6212022", "title": "Defensive computing", "text": "Defensive computing\n\nDefensive computing is a form of practice for computer users to help reduce the risk of computing problems, by avoiding dangerous computing practices. The primary goal of this method of computing is to be able to anticipate and prepare for potentially problematic situations prior to their occurrence, despite any adverse conditions of a computer system or any mistakes made by other users. This can be achieved through adherence to a variety of general guidelines, as well as the practice of specific computing techniques.\n\nStrategies for defensive computing could be divided into two categories, network security and the backup and restoration of data.\n\nUsers put their computers at risk when accessing the Internet and other networks. The use of either of these allows others to gain access to a user's system and important information. By implementing certain strategies, defensive users aim to reduce the risk associated with network access.\n\nA firewall is a collection of security measures that protects a computer from harmful inbound and outbound traffic on the Internet and prevents the unauthorized access of computer systems. These security measures are integrated into the form of special software that runs autonomously either on individual computer systems, or externally through built in software within routers and modems.\n\nNot all firewall software will protect computers from sending unauthorized or harmful outbound traffic.\nAn important defensive computing strategy is to seek and implement quality firewall software that filters both inbound and outbound traffic.\n\nA basic strategy for all defensive computer users is to install and use anti-malware software.\nFirewalls may not completely protect a computer. Malicious software may be able to get through a firewall and onto a system. Anti-Malware such as anti-virus, anti-phishing and email filtering software offer some protection against harmful software that reside within a computer. The amount of malicious software available over the Internet is steadily increasing. It is important for defensive users to use to anti-malware that is both effective and easily updated in order to combat new strains of malicious software that are developed.\n\n An important aspect of defensive computing is for users to be skeptical of the data to which they have access via the Internet. Malicious software can exist in a multitude of different forms and many are misleading to general computer users and even some anti-malware software. Defensive users think critically about the information they can access, to reduce their chances of downloading and spreading malicious software. Strategies include scanning email attachments prior to opening them and manually filtering suspicious emails from inboxes. Users should be aware of persuasive subject lines and headings in emails from any address, as they may actually contain malicious software or spam, which can mislead users into false advertisement resulting in identity theft.\nDefensive users can scan files they download prior to opening them and can also configure their computers to show file extensions, revealing potentially dangerous files that appear harmless.\nSkepticism can also be applied to the websites visited by users. As with emails, users can be led to false advertisements. Also, malicious software can unknowingly be downloaded and infect a computer, just by visiting a certain website.\n\nDespite the efforts of a defensive computer user, the loss of important data can occur due to malware, power outages, equipment failure and general misuse. Although the loss of data cannot be completely prevented, defensive users can take steps to minimize the amount of data lost and restore systems to their previous state.\n\n A defensive strategy against unintentional data loss is the regular backup of important files. Users can make multiple copies of important data and store them either on the same computer or on another device such as a compact disc or an external hard drive. Users can also upload important files to the Internet, provided they have access to Internet storage services. \n\nSome operating systems give users the option of performing a procedure that restores a computer to a predetermined state. If no option is available, a user can obtain the appropriate restoration software for their system. In the event of a system failure or a serious case of data loss, a user can restore any lost or changed files and remove any malicious files that did not previously exist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30583715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30583715", "title": "Eclipse Group", "text": "Eclipse Group\n\nEclipse Group was a private intelligence agency run by former CIA officer Duane \"Dewy\" Clarridge, who was also the founding director of the CIA Counterterrorist Center. Until May 2010, Eclipse Group received funding from the US Government; it then relied on private donors. As of 2011, its operations include obtaining information related to the politics of Afghanistan and the AfPak region.\n\nClarridge operated the Eclipse Group \"from poolside at his home near San Diego. According to the \"New York Times\", the Eclipse Group \"fielded operatives in the mountains of Pakistan and the desert badlands of Afghanistan.\" Clarridge and the Eclipse Group \"sought to discredit Ahmed Wali Karzai, the Kandahar power broker who has long been on the C.I.A. payroll, and planned to set spies on his half brother, the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, in hopes of collecting beard trimmings or other DNA samples that might prove Mr. Clarridge’s suspicions that the Afghan leader was a heroin addict.\" In November 2011, the Eclipse Group partnered with Blue Mountain in Libya before parting the following spring over unknown problems with contracts in Tripoli.\n\nIn addition to these efforts, Clarridge's \"dispatches—an amalgam of fact, rumor, analysis and uncorroborated reports—have been sent to military officials who, until last spring [2010] at least, found some credible enough to be used in planning strikes against militants in Afghanistan. They are also fed to conservative commentators, including Oliver L. North, a compatriot from the Iran-contra days and now a Fox News analyst, and Brad Thor, an author of military thrillers and a frequent guest of Glenn Beck.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11414946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11414946", "title": "Endangered Species Act Amendments of 1978", "text": "Endangered Species Act Amendments of 1978\n\nThe Endangered Species Act (ESA) was first passed in 1973 and forms the basis of biodiversity and endangered species protection in the United States. The original purpose of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 was to prevent species endangerment and extinction due to the human impact on natural ecosystems. The three most powerful sections of the ESA are Sections 4,7 and 9. Section 4 allows the Secretaries of Interior and Commerce to list species as threatened or endangered based on best available data. Section 7 requires federal agencies to consult with Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) or National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) before taking any action that may threaten a listed species. Section 9 forbids the taking of an endangered species. The first amendment to the ESA was passed by the 95th United States Congress in 1978 to \"introduce some flexibility into the Endangered Species Act.\"\n\nThe snail darter case was important for the ESA because it made Congress realize how powerful the ESA really was. In 1966, the Tennessee Valley Authority began construction on the Tellico Dam on the Little Tennessee River. For years, environmentalists tried to shut down the project, but their actions were unsuccessful until the discovery of the snail darter, a small fish that feeds off aquatic snails. The snail darter was listed as an endangered species in 1975 and part of the Little Tennessee River was designated as critical habitat. The completion of the Tellico Dam threatened the survival of the snail darter, which was thought to be native only to the Little Tennessee River. In 1976, battle in the courts between the Tennessee Valley Authority and environmentalists began over the fate of the snail darter. Over the next three years, the decision was appealed all the way to the Supreme Court. In \"Tennessee Valley Authority v. Hill\" the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of protecting the species \"whatever the cost\". The Endangered Species Act was clear in stating that no federal project should be exempt from the provisions of Section 7.\n\nStarting in the spring of 1977, members of Congress made several attempts to pass legislation that weakened the ESA. Many large business interest groups, including the mining and timber industries, also spoke out against the power of the ESA. Beginning in April 1978, the Senate Subcommittee on Resources Protection began debating and developing a bill that would create a committee with power to exempt federal actions from Section 7 requirements. On April 12, 1978 Senator John Culver (D-IA) and Senate Minority Leader Howard Baker (R-TN) introduced a bill that would create a seven-member Cabinet-level committee with the authority to exempt a federal agency from Section 7 requirements.\n\nMeanwhile, in Wheatland, Wyoming, a consortium of energy utilities were attempting to build the Grayrocks Dam on the Laramie River to supply a coal fired power plant. Upset that water diversion would threaten the critically endangered whooping crane, on October 2, 1978, the Nebraska Attorney General’s office obtained a federal injunction barring the dam.\nGrayrocks, however, enjoyed strong support in Congress, and by October 14 Teno Roncalio (D-WY) convinced the House to pass a bill exempting the dam from all federal regulation. In lieu of that, Senator Culver (D-IA) adapted the bill to his own attempts to exempt the snail darter, creating the Endangered Species Committee and required the committee to decide on an exemption from protections of the snail darter and the whooping crane within 30 days. Both the House of Representatives and Senate voted to amend the ESA and on November 10 President Jimmy Carter signed the amendment into law.\nOn December 4 Nebraska reached a settlement under which the power utilities would get to build Grayrocks dam by agreeing to purchase some habitat for the whooping crane. On February 7, 1979, the God Squad met for the first time, refused to exempt the snail darter from protection, and granted Grayrocks an exemption from the whooping crane protections.\n\nThe 1978 amendment to the ESA \"attempts to retain the basic integrity of the ESA, while introducing some flexibility which will permit exemptions from the Act's stringent requirements.\" The amendment clarified the ESA of 1973 in many ways, including clearly defining the term critical habitat, clearly defining penalties for non-compliance and determining the future appropriation of funds. The most important change that was brought about by the 1978 amendment was the creation of the Endangered Species Committee, known as the \"God Squad\" because of the substantial impact of its decisions on the natural world.\n\nThe God Squad is a committee composed of seven Cabinet-level members: The administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the administrator of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, a representative from the state in question, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Army, and the Secretary of the Interior. This committee has the authority to allow the extinction by exempting a federal agency from Section 7 requirements. To exempt a species, five of the seven members must vote in favor of the exemption. The following conditions must be met for a species to be considered for exemption: \n\nAlso, mitigation efforts must be taken to reduce the negative effects on the endangered species.\n\nSince the whooping crane, the only endangered species protections the God Squad has exempted was the northern spotted owl. It started in 1991, when a federal judge ordered the halting of logging on Pacific Northwest national lands because of the threat to the northern spotted owl. Following this action, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) filed for exemption from Section 7. The northern spotted owl is a medium-sized bird that is dependent on old-growth forest and large territories for survival. The BLM came up with a solution that allowed logging to continue in the area, which included the sale of timber on 44 timber tracts to the logging industry. The 44 tracts totaled 4400 acres (18 km) of land. The God Squad convened and discussed the issue. In a 5:2 vote, the God Squad voted for approval of the exemption in thirteen of the sales where there was no reasonable alternative to the sale. However, the exemption was soon overturned when Judge Stephen Reinhardt on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals found it had been illegal for the President to talk to his cabinet about the exemption.\n\nThe environmentalists and the BLM agreed on a compromise that allowed the timber sale to continue. The BLM would develop a Long Range Forest Management Plan that would need to be approved by the FWS before any future timber sales. When the Clinton administration came into office, they withdrew the exemption request and convened a conference resulting in appointment of the Forest Ecosystem Management Assessment Team (FEMAT). The FEMAT was created to develop a plan to protect the owl while still maintaining logging and forest management across the region. FEMAT and the Clinton administration agreed to protect 10 million acres (40,000 km) of old growth forest for the owl, while limiting logging to 1 billion board feet (2 million m) per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "561411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561411", "title": "Fernando Mezzasoma", "text": "Fernando Mezzasoma\n\nFernando Mezzasoma (August 3, 1907 – April 28, 1945) was an Italian fascist journalist and political figure.\n\nMezzasoma was born in Rome, the son of middle-class Perugians; from his late teens he showed himself to be a passionate supporter of Benito Mussolini.\n\nMezzasoma had to contribute to his impoverished family's income from early on, and took several jobs before finishing studies in accounting. A secretary to the lawyer Amedeo Fani, he was integrated to the state bureaucracy in 1929, after Fani became undersecretary to the ministry of Dino Grandi (the Minister of Foreign Affairs). In 1931, he joined the ranks of the National Fascist Party (PNF), and soon after became secretary of the Perugia branch of the Gruppo Universitario Fascista (GUF), the Fascist student organization.\n\nThe following year, Mezzasoma was appointed one of the local PNF leaders in Perugia (holding the position until 1935). He began writing for official magazines, such as \"Dottrina Fascista\" and \"Roma Fascista\", usually under the pen name \"Diogene\". Editor of \"Assalto\" in 1934, he became co-editor of the GUF mouthpiece \"Libro e Moschetto\"; in 1937, he published \"Essenza dei GUF\" (\"Essence of the GUF\"), a propaganda volume that was distributed throughout the network of Fascist youth organizations.\n\nA national deputy-secretary of the GUF in 1935, he was included to the leadership group of the PNF in January 1937, and its deputy-secretary on February 23, 1939. When Italy entered World War II as an Axis Power, he volunteered for the 7th Artillery Division. In 1942, he quit the army to become the director of the Italian press; he continued in that role until 1943. Unlike a great many leading figures of the government (such as Galeazzo Ciano and Dino Grandi), he stayed loyal to Mussolini long after the July 1943 Grand Council of Fascism crisis which ended the latter's rule in Rome.\n\nWith the foundation of the Nazi Germany-assisted Italian Social Republic, he was appointed Mussolini's Minister of Popular Culture, and held this post until the Republic collapsed less than two years later.\n\nHe clashed with Junio Valerio Borghese and, on April 19, 1945, left for Milano - parting with his collaborators (including Giorgio Almirante). It seems that he had the opportunity to flee the region following Germany's defeat, but would have refused, saying: \"I am a minister of Mussolini, I shall die with him\".\n\nHe was shot by the partisans in Dongo, captured while he was trying to make his way to Switzerland.\n"}
{"id": "31210333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31210333", "title": "Football Governance Inquiry", "text": "Football Governance Inquiry\n\nThe Football Governance Inquiry was a British public inquiry into the governance of football in the United Kingdom. The inquiry was announced on 7 December 2010.\n\nJohn Whittingdale, the Committee Chair said: \"The Government has said that it will encourage the reform of football governance rules to support the co-operative ownership of football clubs by supporters, and there is widespread concern that the current governance arrangements are not fit-for-purpose.\"\n\nThe committee of inquiry, the members comprises:\n\nAfter several high-profile controversial events in football including but not limited to Thaksin Shinawatra's ownership of Manchester City F.C., leveraged buyouts by Tom Hicks and George Gillett at Liverpool F.C. and Malcolm Glazer at Manchester United, Portsmouth F.C.'s administration and four successive ownerships within the space of 12 months, public in-fighting within The Football Association, England's unsuccessful multi-million pound bid for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, record high amount of money being paid to sports agents and record numbers of clubs entering administration, there was scope to see what could be done to improve Governance of football in United Kingdom.\n\nBBC's Sports Editor David Bond criticised the scope of the inquiry as being \"too broad to deliver anything worthwhile\".\n\nMembers of the public were asked to submit written evidence for the inquiry, the following questions were asked:\n\n\nThe Government published a 447-page document containing written information from members of the public, football supporters' trusts, universities and football clubs notably Chester F.C. and Scarborough Athletic F.C.\n\nOn 8 February 2011, the Committee held the first evidence session for its inquiry into football governance took place at Portcullis House.\n\n"}
{"id": "19596294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19596294", "title": "Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict", "text": "Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict\n\nThe Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict (GPPAC) is a member-led network of civil society organisations (CSOs) active in the field of conflict prevention and peacebuilding across the world. The network is organised around 15 regional networks of local organisations, each region having its own priorities, character and agenda. Each region is represented in an International Steering Group, which determines joint global priorities and actions. GPPAC was initiated through extensive consultations in 2003-4, and officially launched as part of a global conference in 2005 at the UN headquarters in New York.\n\nAs part of its mission to work towards a global shift from reaction to prevention of violent conflict, GPPAC strives towards multi-actor collaboration and local ownership. Together, GPPAC members aim to achieve greater synergy in the field of conflict prevention and peacebuilding by connecting different levels (from national to regional and global), and to strengthen the role of local civil society groups in conflict regions.\n\nGPPAC supports the capacity of the regional networks to interact and act together, and facilitates regional and global exchanges, where members from different parts of the world come together and learn from each other's experiences and develop joint strategies. GPPAC also connect its members with other relevant actors, including the UN, regional intergovernmental organisations, state actors, the media and academia. This has enabled unique initiatives, showing GPPAC’s ability to bridge global policy making with local ownership and practice on the ground.\n\nAchievements of GPPAC so far have included:\n\n\nGPPAC focuses on the following thematic priorities:\n\n\nGPPAC has also launched the Peace Portal January 2012. The Peace Portal is a unique online platform for learning, sharing and collaborating in the conflict prevention and peacebuilding field. It aims to bring people together and transform their online work into active, more effective peacebuilding.The Portal encourages information sharing and participation from civil society and grassroots organisations, whose voices often can not find the online visibility they need. Open to everybody, the Peace Portal is an important tool for GPPAC, to support its peacebuilding activities.\n\nThe Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict consists of fifteen regions. They are:\n\nFor more information about these regions and their Secretariats, please click here.\n\n"}
{"id": "40628153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40628153", "title": "Global justice movement", "text": "Global justice movement\n\nThe global justice movement is a network of globalized social movements opposing what is often known as the “corporate globalization” and promoting equal distribution of economic resources.\n\nThe global justice movement describes the loose collection of individuals and groups—often referred to as a “movement of movements”—who advocate fair trade rules and are negative to current institutions of global economics such as the World Trade Organization.\n\nThe movement is often labeled the anti-globalization movement by the mainstream media. Those involved, however, frequently deny that they are anti-globalization, insisting that they support the globalization of communication and people and oppose only the global expansion of corporate power. The term further indicates an anti-capitalist and universalist perspective on globalization, distinguishing the movement from those opponents of globalization whose politics are based on a conservative defence of national sovereignty. It is, however, argued by some scholars of social movements, that a new concept of justice, alongside some old notions, underlies many critical ideas and practices developed in this movement. S. A. Hamed Hosseini coins this new mode of conceptualizing justice \"accommodative justice\" and argues that both the unique nature of the movement and the global complexities of the post-Cold War era can be accounted for the rise of such notion. According to him, \"this new concept of justice has emerged from many activists’ experiences of and reflections on the complexities of globalization\". \n\nImportant organizational pillars of the movement are Via Campesina, the family farmers' international; Peoples' Global Action, a loose collection of often youthful groups; Jubilee 2000, the Christian-based movement for relieving international debt; Friends of the Earth, the environmentalist international; and some think-tanks like Focus on the Global South and Third World Network, as well as some large internationalist and transnational trade union organisations.\nParticipants include worldwide student groups, NGOs, trade unions, faith-based and peace groups, and publications such as \"New Internationalist\". A loose coordination of the movement is taking place on the Social Forums. However, although formal power is often situated in the global South, the resources of North-based NGOs give these disproportionate power to often informally marginalize popular organizations from the South.\n\nThe movement is characterized by the massive citizen protests and alternative summits which have, for the last decade, accompanied most meetings of the G8, World Trade Organization, International Monetary Fund, and World Bank. The movement came to the attention of many in the US when activists temporarily shut down the 1999 WTO Ministerial in Seattle. This represented, however, just one of a series of Global Justice protests, including those at the 1988 World Bank/IMF meetings in Germany, \"IMF riots\" beginning in Lima in 1975, over cuts in the social safety net presided over by IMF and other international organizations, and spreading through the world, and \"water wars\" in Bolivia and South Africa.\n\nThe global justice movement claims to place a significant emphasis on transnational solidarity uniting activists in the global South and global North. Some have argued that the World Social Forum is one excellent example of this emphasis, bringing activists together from around the world to focus on shared philosophy and campaigning. However others see the World Social Forum as dominated by Northern NGOs, donors and activists and argue that Southern representation is largely organized via Northern donors and their NGOs and that popular organizations in the global South are systematically marginalized or included in a deeply subordinated manner. For this reason many grassroots movements in the South boycott the forum and the NGOs that gate-keep representation at the forum or, in some instance, actively oppose it as just one more space of domination.\n\n"}
{"id": "2801739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2801739", "title": "Governance of the University of St Andrews", "text": "Governance of the University of St Andrews\n\nThe governance of the University of St Andrews is laid down in a series of Acts of Parliament (the Universities (Scotland) Acts) enacted between 1858 and 1966, and the Higher Education Governance (Scotland) Act 2016.\n\nIn common with the other Ancient universities of Scotland, there are three bodies responsible for governance, as determined by the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858. This Act created three bodies: the General Council, University Court and Academic Senate (\"Senatus Academicus\").\n\nThe General Council, chaired by the Chancellor, represents the interests of all staff and graduates of the University and has an advisory role, but the Principal and University Court are required to present an annual report to the General Council. The University Court, chaired by the Rector, is the \"de jure\" and \"de facto\" supreme governing body of the University with the authority to appoint the Principal, and the power to overrule the \"Senatus Academicus\". The \"Senatus Academicus\", chaired by the Principal, is charged with determining the programmes of teaching for the students, and deciding on the regulations for the awarding of degrees. The \"Senatus Academicus\" has the \"de facto\" responsibility for student discipline, subject to the appellate jurisdiction of the Court.\n\nThe General Council is a standing advisory body of all the graduates, academics and former academics of the University. It meets twice a year and appoints a Business Committee to transact business between those meetings. The most important jobs it performs is in appointing two Assessors to the University Court and electing the University Chancellor.\n\nThe University Court was established by the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858 as the supreme governing body of the University, in effect the University's board of directors, which has responsibility for the finances and administration of the University. The University Court has the power to overturn decisions made by the \"Senatus Academicus\" and all of the academic staff of the University are \"de jure\" appointed by the Court, but \"de facto\" such decisions are made by the Principal and the Academic Council.\n\nAt its creation the Court had a small membership representing the Chancellor, Rector, Principal and Senate, but the Universities (Scotland) Act 1966 non-professorial staff were added to the Court. The Court maintains a significant majority of members drawn from within, or appointed by those within, the University community itself. The only person appointed from outwith the University is the Assessor of the Provost of Fife Council. Six of the eight co-opted members could come from beyond the University community.\n\nThe Court is chaired by the Rector who is elected by all the matriculated students of the University, and is the ordinary president of the Court.\n\nThe membership of the Court was set by Court Ordinance No. 121 of May 2002 (as approved by the Privy Council of the United Kingdom) which is:\n\nThe Rector of the University of St Andrews is the ordinary president of the University Court, and is chosen every three years by the matriculated students of the University. The office of Rector was created by the Parliament of the United Kingdom when it passed the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858, which regulated academic governance and provided for the election of a Rector at all of the universities in existence at the time in Scotland. To this day it is only the four ancient universities of Scotland: University of St Andrews, University of Glasgow, University of Aberdeen, and University of Edinburgh, as well as the University of Dundee, that elect a rector, whereas modern universities do not.\n\nThe University created the position of Senior Governor to undertake the other responsibilities of a Chairman of a Board, to ensure that the Court fulfils its responsibility of superintending the Universities officials, and enabling the effective functioning of the Court's committee. The Senior Governor is selected by the Court from among its lay members (those members who come from outside the University community.) In 2016 the Scottish Parliament mandated that a senior lay member be appointed for the governing body of, in Section 1 of the Higher Education Governance (Scotland) Act 2016. At the same time, the 2016 Act affirmed the continued position of Rector as President of the Court.\n\nThe Rector, when present, will preside over meetings of the Court but may not otherwise normally be involved in Court business in the way that a company chairman might be. They have a more active role in the business of court. They have become \"de jure\" the working President of the Court.\n\nThe previous Senior Governor was Professor Ewan Brown, who was appointed in June 2007. Professor Brown is an alumnus of the University.\n\nThe \"Senatus Academicus\" is the supreme academic body under the presidency of the University Principal. It consists of all professors, deans of faculties, heads of school, a number of elected non-professorial members of staff, and four student members. Another function of the Senate is the discipline of students. Under the \"Sponsio Academica\" the Senate has the power to expel a student should they bring the University into disrepute. However, the full \"Senatus Academicus\" has not met as a governing body since 1995, with only ceremonial meetings taking place, such as graduation. Much of the Senate's business is delegated to a smaller body, the Academic Council.\n\nThe Principal of the University of St Andrews is the chief executive of the University and is assisted in that role by several key officers. The Principal is analogous to a Vice-Chancellor in England or a President of an American university.\n\nAs of 23 October 2018 the members of the Principal's Office were:\n\n\nThe University is divided into four Faculties - Arts, Divinity, Science, Medicine - each one governed by a Faculty Council comprising all permanent members of academic staff in each school in the Faculty (members of cross faculty schools may attend either or both Faculty Councils). These Faculty Councils, in association with the Senatus Academicus, are ultimately responsible inter alia for the approval of new undergraduate and postgraduate courses and for overseeing monitoring of the progress of students. The Deans of Faculties and other faculty officers, including those responsible for postgraduate matters, are elected by the Faculty Councils.\n\nThe Faculty Councils meet once annually, towards the end of each academic year.\n\nThe routine business of the Faculties is conducted throughout the year by the Teaching, Learning and Assessment (TLA) Committee, a standing committee reporting to Senate, and by the Faculty Business Committees. The Faculty Business Committees, comprising the Faculty officers and any other co-opted members, meet in advance of each TLA committee to dispatch routine affairs and review issues arising from the implementation of policy or course proposals, highlighting issues which may need discussion in the wider forum of the TLA.\n\nThe Planning and Resources Committee is a joint committee of both the University Court and the \"Senatus Academicus\" and attempts to bring a unified approach to both academic and financial planning. The Planning and Resources Committee has student representation with the President and Director of Education of the University of St Andrews Students' Association.\n\nStudents are represented by the statutory Students' Representative Council, which was instituted by the Universities (Scotland) Act 1889 The Students' Representative Council is currently part of University of St Andrews Students' Association, and has representatives elected from undergraduate and postgraduate students.\n\nAll matriculated students of the University have the right to vote in the election of the Rector, who holds office for a three-year period, and is President of the University Court. The Rector appoints the Rector's Assessor who is also a member of the University Court, and since 1970 the Rector has appointed a student as Assessor. The Rector's Assessor is a member of the Students' Representative Council, and as of April 2017 the Rector's Asssessor was Dylan Bruce. The President and Director of Education of the Students' Association are members of the University Court.\n\nThe President, Arts & Divinity Faculty President, Science & Medicine Faculty President, and the Postgraduate Academic Convenor are members of the \"Senatus Academicus\" and the Academic Council. The President of the Students' Association is a member of the Senate Business Committee, which is responsible for considering business for the Senate and Academic Council, and for establishing working groups or commissioning reports. The Students' Representative Council itself exists to represent students on all matters and is the recognised channel of communication between students and the University authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "23454817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23454817", "title": "Greed versus grievance", "text": "Greed versus grievance\n\nThe phrase \"greed versus grievance\" or \"greed and grievance\" refer to the two baseline arguments put forward by scholars of armed conflict on the causes of civil war, though the argument has been extended to other forms of war, such as violent conflict in general, rebellion and insurgency for example.\n\n\"Greed\" is shorthand for the argument that combatants in armed conflicts are motivated by a desire to better their situation, and perform an informal cost-benefit analysis in examining if the rewards of joining a rebellion are greater than not joining. \"Grievance\" stands for the argument that people rebel over issues of identity, e.g. ethnicity, religion, social class, etc., rather than over economics. In practice, even proponents of strong versions of these arguments admit that the opposing argument has some influence in the development of a conflict.\n\nWhether the cause of war is attributed to 'greed' or 'grievance' the common factor is the perception of a certain deprivation. If it is an economic deprivation, the inequality will be a 'vertical inequality' and the cause of war will be 'greed'. If the deprivation is caused by ethnicity, age, religion or gender, it will be a 'horizontal inequality' and the cause of war will be due to the 'grievances'. \n\nThe \"greed versus grievance\" theory provides opposing arguments on the cause of civil war. Proponents of the greed argument posit that armed conflicts are caused by a combatant's desire for self-enrichment. These motivations are manifested in multiple ways, including economic gain through control of goods and resources or by increased power within a given state. Conflicts started through greed are often seen in states with negative economic growth and/or systemic poverty, as this implies limited state capacity to provide opposition groups with economic concessions as well as the likelihood of the absence of an effective military or police apparatus to contend with those seeking power or resources.\n\nPaul Collier and Anke Hoeffler wrote one of the seminal pieces defending greed over grievance. They found that factors that increase the military or financial viability of rebellion correlated with more instances of conflict than factors leading to grievances. They argue that certain natural resources such as oil are tied to increased likelihood of conflict onset, and other natural resources such as diamonds are tied to increases in conflict duration. This is because natural resources may lower the startup cost of war, and provide rebels with an easy way of financing prolonged conflicts. Natural resources may also make the state a more lucrative prize for capture, further decreasing the opportunity cost of insurgency. For the same reason, Collier and Hoeffler also conclude that states with low per capita GDP are more likely to experience civil war, because low average income makes wage earning through conflict a more lucrative prospect. Collier and Hoeffler also make an important distinction between preferences and constraints in terms of circumstances that favor rebellions. Societies can be more prone to conflict because preferences for rebellion are unusually strong or because constraints on rebellion are unusually weak – the former being aligned with grievance and the latter with greed. Measures such as democracy or political repression are hard to draw conclusions from because they may increase grievances among some groups, but empower other groups to repress potential insurgents. While most states harbor some level of grievance with the sitting regime, few states experience civil war. This is because although not everyone is content with the established order, rebellion only occurs when conflict is a viable option for dissatisfied parties. Therefore, Collier and Hoeffler conclude that on their own most variables that seek to explain civil war onset through measurements of grievance alone prove insufficient. Instead Collier and Hoeffler advocate using the looking at greed, that is to say the opportunity cost of initiating and sustaining conflict. Fearon and Laitin (2003) offer a contrasting view. They see opportunity structures created by weakness state capacity to be a cause of civil war onset. They find evidence in favor of the technology of insurgency as a mechanism. Further, they find that ethnicity, religion or any cultural or demography characteristic do not seems to have a positive relationship with civil war onset.\n\nFinancing combatants is crucial to the success of any rebellion. Extortion and donations from diasporas are two possible financial sources used by rebellion groups. The extortion of primary commodity resources is especially suited to the operations of rebel groups, as they are often made up of unskilled labor and given whatever weapons are available. As rebel organizations need to be fairly large to have a significant impact and incite a civil war, the looting of primary commodity resources is the best way for them to maintain financial viability. Examples of this include diamonds in Sierra Leone and Angola, timber in Cambodia, coca in Colombia, and poppy in Afghanistan. Another factor that relates to lower constraints on rebellion is that primary resources are often found in rural locales. Thus, they often require an army to defend a large area, something that is much less likely in weak states that cannot sustain a military apparatus. Diaspora populations are also likely funding sources for rebel groups, as was the case with the Tamil population in North America funding the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka. Diaspora populations, who are usually wealthier than their native counterparts, are able to mobilize for collective action, and do not directly suffer the consequences of a conflict. While the potential for diasporas to be financial backers of rebel groups was noted, Collier and Hoeffler found that diasporas themselves do not increase the risk of conflict.\nOverall, Collier and Hoeffler's study drew multiple conclusions in support of the greed model. Faster economic growth reduces risk, likely because it raises the opportunity costs of joining a rebellion. The higher a state's dependence on primary commodities, the greater the risk of conflict; this is due to the resources being a main financial component of rebel groups and a weak governmental structure. However, they observed that if there is a particularly high dependence on primary commodity resources, conflict risk declines as states find ways to protect their resources and deter looting.\nDavid Keen elaborates on the economic incentives for warfare and argues that there is more to war than simply \"winning.\" In some instances, it could be more beneficial for certain parties to prolong war, so long as they are in control of economic resources or power positions. This can become common in states with weak rule of law where violence becomes privatized. Elite groups within weak states attempt to harness economic agendas and resources within a given civil society and are motivated to create private profit by mobilizing violent means. Keen continues by citing various possible economic functions of violence.\nHis first example of violent means to promote economic gain is pillaging, whether to gain resources or to supplement or supply wages of soldiers. Another function is extortion of protection money from people who can afford it so they can be spared violence inflicted upon them. A third economic function is the monopolistic control of trade. When state control breaks down, trade that was previously prohibited is more easily facilitated and has the potential to generate substantial amounts of profit for those involved. Primary examples of this are weapons and drugs. A fourth function of conflict is the possible exploitation of labor. The threat of violence can be used to coerce cheap or free labor, with extreme cases resulting in forms of slavery. A fifth short-term function is the ability to stake a claim to land and its resources. Similar to Collier and Hoeffler's argument that weak states cannot easily maintain control over their natural resources due to their rural location and potentially wide dispersion, it is economically beneficial to assert control over minimally defended, resource-rich areas. Extracting benefits from aid that is sent to a conflict area is also beneficial for rebel groups as there are often possibilities to raid resources sent from abroad. Appropriation of aid becomes difficult in a weak state. \nUnlike Collier, Keen does not attribute conflict to be driven more by greed than by grievance; he stresses how the two forces interact so that greed generates grievances and rebellion, which in turn legitimizes further greed. Keen uses the conflict perpetuated by Milosevic in Serbia as an example of how an extended, endless conflict is preferable to one with a definitive end and a clear winner. Milosevic controlled the media to create grievances among the Serbian population, rally them together, and create a common enemy following NATO bombing. The small group of elites surrounding Milosevic perpetuated conditions that warranted international sanctions in order to better control trade and loot resources. Milosevic realized sanctions were necessary to facilitate the profitable black market transactions that were being made by those closest to him. Had he demobilized or embraced a more peaceful policy, the sanctions would have been lifted and his economic advantage would have disintegrated. This is what Keen was referring to in his argument that greed and grievance are often tied together and interact with one another. In this way, Milosevic's initial desire for power spurred him to create grievances amongst the Serbs that created the popular support for his sanction-warranting policies to further his economic and political power – the use of grievances to produce further greed.\n\nThe strong case for the \"greed\" argument was made by Paul Collier and Anke Hoeffler in a study they performed for the World Bank at the turn of the millennium. Since then, the Collier-Hoeffler Model has been the focus of much of the greed-grievance debate.\n\nOne of the leading critics on the 'greed' argument is Frances Stewart. In her article 'Horizontal Inequalities: A neglected Dimension of Development' she stresses the need to focus on the grievances of the populations since too much focus on inequality between individuals is dangerous for successful development. By using nine case studies she proves how horizontal inequalities have led to violent conflict. \n\nIn south central Asia, along the lawless Afghani-Pakistani border a group called the Taliban have been engaging in what could best be described as a greed based insurgency since 2001. The Taliban's insurgency is in opposition to the NATO and United States supported Afghan transitional government of Hamid Karzai. This brief case study will provide concrete examples of the factors that compose the Greed Model. \nOne of the primary characteristics of a Greed-based conflict as listed above is the ability to derive income or revenue from natural resource predation. This requires the presence of a \"lootable\" resource. In the case of the Taliban insurgency, this resource is the opium poppy. Afghanistan supplies the majority of the world's opium, the market share being as high as 90% in the years directly following the NATO invasion. The high volume, high revenue nature of the Afghan opium market allows the Taliban to \"loot\" the resource at every stage of development, from cultivation to heroin sale. Benefits from opium production begin for the Taliban with imposing a 10% tax on farmers growing opium (a protection fee), followed by control over heroin labs and heroin sales to smugglers. The Taliban, like FARC before them also blur the line between membership to the Taliban and membership to the transnational group of opium smugglers, therefore allowing the insurgency to reap financial rewards from the price bump that comes when the smuggler crosses an international border. In these ways the Taliban are able to fund their insurgency and begin to fall under the characterization of a group of actors in pursuit of greed based conflict.\n\nA second component of the Greed Model is the presence of a large diaspora funding the conflict. If we use the traditional definition of a diaspora, the Taliban do not have one. However, they have two extraterritorial means of support based on ethnic affiliation. One comes from funding from wealthy Arabs in the Middle East. This revenue source has been relatively under-researched as the funds are coming from individuals rather than an ethnic bloc.\n\nContrasting the diffuse nature of the Arab funding, the Taliban receive considerable support from their Pakistani Pashtun brethren. Pashtun influence has a large impact on the Afghan insurgency. Pakistan's role encompasses a number of characteristics important to the greed model; ethnic homogeneity, a supply of unskilled labor, and lawless borderlands. Collier and Hoeffler discuss the idea that diversity makes conflict more difficult as it is harder to mobilize a heterogeneous ethnic base into rebellion. However, the Pashtun ethnic group that straddles the Afghani-Pakistani border is anything but diverse. This allows the Taliban to rapidly acquire recruits. In addition, many Pashtuns in the region are uneducated and poor. This provides the Taliban with another requirement for greed based rebellion; unskilled workers who can fill out security and infantry requirements. The insecurity and lack of formal state governance over the Afghan south-east and the Pakistani west also makes a significant contribution to the robustness of a greed based argument here. The mountainous region between the two states is an ideal hiding place for insurgents and also provides many circuitous avenues for smuggling heroin.\n\nPakistan's influence in Afghanistan extends beyond the simple trans-border ethnic affiliation. Gretchen Peters cites a strained relationship with its Pakistani neighbors as a problem limiting the success of the Karzai government. Pakistan's government is hostile towards the Afghan transitional government because the transitional government is backed and heavily influenced by international entities. Therefore, the Inter-Service Intelligence Agency (ISI) of Pakistan has been known to directly support the Taliban with funding, tip offs, and the corruption of government officials. This constitutes the greed model factor of extraterritorial governmental support for an insurgency laid out by Collier.\n\nThe final explanatory feature important to the Taliban's insurgency as a greed-based rebellion is the influence of a previous rebellion. With the support of the CIA and ISI the young Taliban in the 1990s were pitted against the Soviet Union in proxy war. This enabled the Taliban to do a number of things. They became involved in opium trade, were provided with weapons, and began to construct the organizational aptitude that allows for their continued success today. The previous involvement of the Taliban in an armed insurgency allows one of the issues with a greed-based insurgency to be dismissed. Collier and Hoeffler assert that the government has an innate advantage in greed-based conflicts as the government is more organized. However, in the case of the Afghan conflict this is not true. The transitional government is more fractionalized, less cooperative, and more ethnically divided than the Taliban. Therefore, using the greed-model we should actually expect the Taliban to defeat the transitional government after NATO's withdrawal, as the government possesses few advantages.\n\nThis case shows the explanatory power of the greed model, enabling a better understanding of what the variables look like in the real world. In the Afghan case there haven't been many successes in peace building. As the following section will illustrate, the greed model is not without holes or needed additions, but the Taliban insurgency can definitively be characterized as an actor motivated primarily by the conditions that foster the greed model.\n\nProbably the most coherent rebuttal of Collier's work comes from David Keen, articulated in his book \"Complex Emergencies\".\nSri Lanka is an island country in South Asia that suffered from a violent civil war for more than 25 years. The fighting took place between the majority of the Buddhist Sinhalese population and the minority Hindu Tamils. This brief case study will demonstrate how the civil war was caused by horizontal inequalities and how it therefore supports the 'grievance' argument. \n\nInjustices can be seen across different ethnic groups. When the people from a certain ethnic group perceive that they are being given less opportunities by the government simply because they belong to that ethnic group, in terms of education and economy for example, it creates grievances. These grievances, which are called horizontal inequalities, lead to violent conflict. The war that took place in Sri Lanka was due to the perceived grievances that the Tamil population experienced during Sinhalese rule. \n\nSri Lanka -then called Ceylon- was under British colonial rule from 1815 to 1948. Even though the majority of the population was Buddhist Sinhalese, with over three million people, the British people favored the Hindu Tamils, which accounted to 300,000 people. The Tamil population therefore enjoyed privileged access to education and to government employment. They held around 40% of University places in science and engineering, medicine and agriculture and veterinary science. The appointment of Tamils to bureaucratic positions angered the Sinhalese population and when Great Britain granted Ceylon independence in 1948, the Sinhalese majority aimed at correcting these horizontal inequalities perceived as disadvantageous to them. They made Sinhalese the official language, which drove the Tamils out of the civil service and incorporated educational quotas. The result was an increase on the Sinhalese incomes and a drop in those of the Tamil, which eliminated the previous differential between the two groups. However, by the end of the 1970s, Sinhalese were gaining more places at University and because civil service recruitment policies, such as the use of Sinhalese in examinations favored the Sinhalese, their recruitment in relation to population was four times more favorable than that of the Tamils. \n\nWhile the initial aim was to correct the horizontal inequalities perceived by the Sinhalese population, the result was that instead of just correcting them, they introduced them in their favor. This meant that the Tamil population now felt economically and politically excluded and threatened. As seen, these horizontal inequalities translated into grievances and it was these grievances that allowed extremist leaders to exploit the growing resentment to gain support and start a violent conflict. \n\nAfter years of ethnic tensions, the violence was initiated by an insurgent group called the Tamil Tigers, who declared the ‘First Eelam War (1983-87) with the aim of creating a separate Tamil state in northern Sri Lanka. The peacekeepers sent by India in 1987 did little to stop the violence and they were forced to retire in 1990. It was then that the Tamil Tigers initiated what they called the second Eelam War, which was even bloodier than the first. Horrible atrocities were committed by both sides, including the use of child suicide bombers and child soldiers and it was not until 2009 that the Sri Lankan government declared victory over the Tamil Tigers. It is estimated that at least 100,000 died during the conflict. \n\nAs seen, the Tamil Tigers did not start violent conflict due to greed. It was grievances such as a perceived disadvantage over education possibilities, work opportunities, language use and economic prospects that increased the ethnic tensions between the two groups and drove the Tamil Tigers to start a war. \n\nWhile there is no doubt that war causes poverty and that once war has broken out it feeds on economic deprivation and underdevelopment, one cannot declare the ‘greed’ argument as a sole explanation of violent conflict. Poverty does not cause war directly, so the greed argument is not strong enough. It is the grievances perceived by a group within a society that drives violent conflict. These grievances do include economic deprivation but also ethnic discrimination, age and gender. As seen with Sri Lanka, these factors are more likely to drive conflict since they also provide a specific environment where charismatic leaders can pick on the grievances and create a sense of group membership that facilitates the outbreak of war.\n\nThere are many works that rebut the idea of greed vs. grievance. Authors set up alternative ideas that need to be introduced and explored. Even the staunchest proponents of the Greed vs. Grievance theory believe that other outside forces (beyond the greed and/or grievance) can have an effect on conflict, which makes the critiques all the more vital in understanding the theory itself. One of the most prevalent authors in rebutting greed vs. grievance is author David Keen, in his book \"Complex Emergencies\".\nDavid Keen, a professor at the Development Studies Institute at the London School of Economics, has several innovative and new ideas regarding the ideas of war. His work is considered by many to be one of the leading arguments against greed vs. grievance theory. His ideas look into the specifics of complex emergencies, which is a term officially defined by the InterAgency Standing Committee (IASC) as:\n\"A multifaceted humanitarian crisis in a country, region or society where there is a total or considerable breakdown of authority resulting from internal or external conflict and which requires a multi-sectoral, international response that goes beyond the mandate or capacity of any single agency and/or the ongoing UN country program. Such emergencies have, in particular, a devastating effect on children and women and call for a complex range of responses.\"\nKeen discusses how a conflict can never be simply a greed scenario. His definition of a \"complex emergency\" demonstrates this broader term and all of its various implications. \nIn his book, Keen goes into several different conflict scenarios, such as 'war', 'famine', and 'information', and then sets up an argument against the idea of greed. He believes that although a conflict, whether it be the 'War on Terror' or the conflict in Sierra Leone, may be centered around some concept of greed or grievance, this can never solely explain a conflict. Although seemingly obvious, Keen looks to demonstrate that, \"the aims in a war are complex\". He does not believe that greed and grievance can be examined separately, but rather that they are partner terms that must be implemented in a complementary way. For example, when Keen discusses the conflict in Sudan, he says, \" the grievances of northern pastoralists were useful for a government trying to get its hands on oil in areas that famine and militia attacks helped to depopulate; meanwhile, the 'greed' of the Arab militias themselves (for labour, cattle and land) was itself intimately linked to their grievances\". He makes it clear that it is necessary to first spend ample time defining the type of conflict at hand because the differences between genocide and a civil war are substantial, so it is necessary to diagnose the incentives and solutions for the conflict with a mix of multiple theories. \nKeen specifically critiques Paul Collier, a leading expert in greed vs. grievance theory, by claiming that Collier became too comfortable with \"numbers\", and needed to rely more on the actual opinions of people involved in conflicts. He spoke of Collier's work and said, \"This is where econometrics tips over into arrogance and starts closing down the possibility of a genuine understanding of conflicts or, by extension, of a political settlement that addresses underlying grievances\". He doesn't believe that it can be dismissed so easily. He was documented saying, \"It also annoys me that a lot of the 'scientific air' of the Collier work is quite bogus as the selection of proxies is so arbitrary\", which demonstrated a distinct attack on Collier's work, which emphasizes quantitative data.\n\nDavid Keen is one of the major critics of greed vs. grievance theory, defined primarily by Paul Collier, and argues the point that a conflict, although he cannot define it, cannot be pinpointed to simply one motive. He believes that conflicts are much more complex and thus should not be analyzed through simplified methods. He disagrees with the quantitative research methods of Collier and believes a stronger emphasis should be put on personal data and human perspective of the people in conflict. This isn't necessarily a complete dismissal of the greed vs. grievance theory, but rather a critique on its polarity and methods of data collection. \nBeyond Keen, several other authors have introduced works that either disprove greed vs. grievance theory with empirical data, or dismiss its ultimate conclusion. Authors such as Cristina Bodea and Ibrahim Elbadawi, who co-wrote the entry, \"Riots, coups and civil war: Revisiting the greed and grievance debate\", argue that empirical data can disprove many of the proponents of greed theory and make the idea \"irrelevant\". They examine a myriad of factors and conclude that too many factors come into play with conflict, which cannot be confined to simply greed or grievance. \nAnthony Vinci makes a strong argument that, \"fungible concept of power and the primary motivation of survival provide superior explanations of armed group motivation and, more broadly, the conduct of internal conflicts\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50826551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50826551", "title": "Génération Nation", "text": "Génération Nation\n\nGénération Nation, formerly the Front National de la Jeunesse (FNJ) until June 2018, is the youth organization of the French National Rally, founded in 1973.\nAnyone between 16 and 30 can become a member since 2011. The FNJ had 25,000 members in December 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "37570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37570", "title": "Head of government", "text": "Head of government\n\nA head of government (or chief of government) is a generic term used for either the highest or second highest official in the executive branch of a sovereign state, a federated state, or a self-governing colony, who often presides over a cabinet, a group of ministers or secretaries who lead executive departments. The term \"head of government\" is often differentiated from the term \"head of state\" (as in article 7 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, article 1 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents and the United Nations protocol list), as they may be separate positions, individuals, or roles depending on the country.\n\nThe authority of a head of government, such as a president, chancellor, or prime minister and the relationship between that position and other state institutions, such as the relation between the head of state and of the legislature, varies greatly among sovereign states, depending largely on the particular system of the government that has been chosen, won, or evolved over time.\n\nIn parliamentary systems, including constitutional monarchies, the head of government is the \"de facto\" political leader of the government, and is answerable to one chamber or the entire legislature. Although there is often a formal reporting relationship to a head of state, the latter usually acts as a figurehead who may take the role of chief executive on limited occasions, either when receiving constitutional advice from the head of government or under specific provisions in a constitution.\n\nIn presidential republics or in absolute monarchies, the head of state is also usually the head of government. The relationship between that leader and the government, however, can vary greatly, ranging from separation of powers to autocracy, according to the constitution (or other basic laws) of the particular state.\n\nIn semi-presidential systems, the head of government may answer to both the head of state and the legislature, with the specifics provided by each country's constitution. A modern example is the present French government, which originated as the French Fifth Republic in 1958. In France, the president, the head of state, appoints the prime minister, who is the head of government. However, the president must choose someone who can act effectively as an executive, but who also enjoys the support of the France's legislature, the National Assembly, in order to be able to pass legislation. In some cases, the head of state may represent one political party but the majority in the National Assembly is of a different party. Given that the majority party has greater control over state funding and primary legislation, the president is in effect forced to choose a prime minister from the opposition party in order to ensure an effective, functioning legislature. In this case, known as cohabitation, the prime minister, along with the cabinet, controls domestic policy, with the president's influence largely restricted to foreign affairs.\n\nIn directorial systems, the executive responsibilities of the head of government are spread among a group of people. A prominent example is the Swiss Federal Council, where each member of the council heads a department and also votes on proposals relating to all departments.\n\nA common title for many heads of government is prime minister. This is used as a formal title in many states, but also informally a generic term to describe whichever office is considered the principal minister under an otherwise styled head of state, as \"Minister\" — Latin for servants or subordinates — is a common title for members of a government (but many other titles are in use, e.g. chancellor and secretary of state). Formally the head of state can also be the head of government as well (ex officio or by ad hoc cumulation, such as a ruling monarch exercising all powers himself) but otherwise has formal precedence over the Head of Government and other ministers, whether he is their actual political superior (ruling monarch, executive president) or rather theoretical or ceremonial in character (constitutional monarch, non-executive president). Various constitutions use different titles, and even the same title can have various multiple meanings, depending on the constitutional order and political system of the state in question.\n\nIn addition to prime minister, titles used for the democratic model, where there is an elected legislative body checking the Head of government, include the following. Some of these titles relate to governments below the national level (e.g., states or provinces).\n\n\n\nIn a broader sense, a head of government can be used loosely when referring to various comparable positions under a dominant head of state (especially is the case of ancient or feudal eras, so the term \"head of government\", in this case, could be considered a contradiction in terms). In this case, the prime minister serves at the pleasure of the monarch and holds no more power than the monarch allows. Some such titles are diwan, mahamantri, pradhan, wasir or vizier.\n\nHowever, just because the head of state is the \"de jure\" dominant position does not mean that he/she will not always be the \"de facto\" political leader. A skilled head of government like 19th-century German statesman Otto von Bismarck, Minister President of Prussia and later Chancellor of Germany under Emperor/King Wilhelm I, serves as an example showing that possession of formal powers does not equal political influence.\n\nIn some cases, the head of state is a figurehead whilst the head of the government leads the ruling party. In some cases a head of government may even pass on the title in hereditary fashion. Such titles include the following:\n\nIn some models the head of state and head of government are one and the same. These include:\nAn alternative formula is a single chief political body (e.g., presidium) which collectively leads the government and provides (e.g. by turns) the ceremonial Head of state\n\"See Head of state for further explanation of these cases.\"\n\nIn parliamentary systems, government functions along the following lines:\n\nAll of these requirements directly impact the Head of government's role. Consequently, they often play a 'day to day' role in parliament, answering questions and defending the government on the 'floor of the House', while in semi-presidential systems they may not be required to play as much of a role in the functioning of parliament.\n\nIn many countries, the Head of government is commissioned by the Head of state to form a government, on the basis of the strength of party support in the lower house, in some other states directly elected by parliament. Many parliamentary systems require ministers to serve in parliament, while others ban ministers from sitting in parliament; they must resign on becoming ministers.\n\nHeads of government are typically removed from power in a parliamentary system by\n\nConstitutions differ in the range and scope of powers granted to the head of government. Some older constitutions; for example, Australia's 1900 text, and Belgium's 1830 text; do not mention their prime ministerial offices at all, the offices became a \"de facto\" political reality without a formal constitutional status. Some constitutions make a Prime Minister primus inter pares (first among equals) and that remains the practical reality for the Prime Minister of Belgium and the Prime Minister of Finland. Other states however, make their head of government a central and dominant figure within the cabinet system; Ireland's Taoiseach, for example, alone can decide when to seek a parliamentary dissolution, in contrast to other countries where this is a cabinet decision, with the Prime Minister just one member voting on the suggestion. The Prime Minister of Sweden, under the 1974 Instrument of Government, is a constitutional office with all key executive powers at his disposal; either directly, or indirectly through the collegial Government; whose members are all appointed and dismissed at the Prime Minister's sole discretion.\n\nUnder the unwritten British constitution, the Prime Minister's role has evolved, based often on the individual's personal appeal and strength of character, as contrasted between, for example, Winston Churchill as against Clement Attlee, Margaret Thatcher as against John Major. It is alleged that the increased personalisation of leadership in a number of states has led to heads of government becoming themselves \"semi-presidential\" figures, due in part to media coverage of politics that focuses on the leader and his or her mandate, rather than on parliament; and to the increasing centralisation of power in the hands of the head of government. Such allegations have been made against two recent British Prime ministers; Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair. They were also made against Italian prime ministers Silvio Berlusconi and Matteo Renzi, Canadian prime minister Pierre Trudeau and Federal Chancellor of West Germany (later all of Germany), Helmut Kohl, when in power.\n\nThe Head of government is often provided with an official residence, often in the same fashion as heads of state often are. The name of the residence is often used as a metonym or alternate title for 'the government' when the office is politically the highest, e.g. in the UK \"Downing Street announced today…\"\n\nWell-known official residences of heads of government include:\nFuller list in the official residence article.\n\nSimilarly, heads of government of (con)federal entities below the level of the sovereign state (often without an actual head of state, at least under international law) may also be given an official residence, sometimes used as an opportunity to display aspirations of statehood:\n\nUsually, the residence of the heads of government is not as prestigious and grand as that of the head of state, even if the head of state only performs ceremonial duties. Even the formal representative of the head of state, such as a governor-general, may well be housed in a grander, palace-type residence. However, this is not the case when both positions are combined into one:\n\n\nAs of mid-2011:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4816645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4816645", "title": "History and use of instant-runoff voting", "text": "History and use of instant-runoff voting\n\nInstant-runoff voting (IRV) is a voting method used in single-seat elections with more than two candidates. Instead of voting only for a single candidate, voters in IRV elections can rank the candidates in order of preference. Ballots are initially counted for each elector's top choice, losing candidates are eliminated, and ballots for losing candidates are redistributed until one candidate is the top remaining choice of a majority of the voters. When the field is reduced to two, it has become an \"instant runoff\" that allows a comparison of the top two candidates head-to-head.\n\nIRV more commonly known outside the USA as the alternative vote or preferential voting, was devised around 1870 by the US architect W. R. Ware. Today it is in use at a national level to elect the Australian House of Representatives, the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea, the President of Ireland and President of India. In Australia it is also used for elections to the legislative assemblies (lower houses) of all states and territories except Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory, and for the Tasmanian Legislative Council (upper house).\n\nIRV is also used a number of municipal elections in Australia, the United States, United Kingdom and New Zealand. Because of its relationship to the Single Transferable Vote (STV) system, IRV is used for by-elections in a some jurisdictions that use STV for ordinary parliamentary elections, such as the Republic of Ireland and Scotland.\n\nIRV is known by different names in the various countries in which it is used. It is also known as the 'Alternative Vote', 'Ranked Choice Voting', and 'Preferential Voting', although IRV is only one of a number of forms of preferential voting systems.\n\nInstant-runoff voting is based on the Single Transferable Vote electoral system, invented independently by Thomas Hare in 1857 and Carl Andrae in 1855. Unlike IRV, the Single Transferable Vote was designed as a form of proportional representation involving multi-seat constituencies, and today STV is used in a number of countries, including Australia, the Republic of Ireland and Malta.\n\nWilliam Robert Ware, the founder of the schools of architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Columbia University, invented IRV around 1870 by applying the Single Transferable Vote system to single winner elections. IRV was adopted for the Australian House of Representatives in 1918 and has been used to elect the President of Ireland since the office came into being in 1937. It was introduced in Fiji in 1999 and in Papua New Guinea in 2007.\n\nIRV (in Australia called preferential voting) was introduced for House of Representatives elections in Australia after the Swan by-election in October 1918, when the conservative Country Party, representing small farmers, split the non-Labor vote in conservative country areas, allowing Labor candidates to win on a first-past-the-post vote then in place. The conservative Nationalist government of Billy Hughes introduced preferential voting to enable the Coalition parties to field candidates in the same electorates without putting Coalition seats at risk. It was first used at the Corangamite by-election on 14 December 1918, and nationwide at the 1919 election. Preferential voting continued to benefit the Coalition until the 1990 election, when for the first time the Labor Bob Hawke government obtained a net benefit from preferential voting.\n\nA study of the 2007 federal election found that every House of Representatives electorate had at least four candidates, and the average number of candidates was seven. 76 candidates depended on preferences to win, which represented more than half of the 150 winners.\n\nPreferential voting is used for most state and local elections in Australia, but sometimes with optional preferential voting where voters are allowed to limit their number of rankings.\n\nUnder the name 'preferential' or 'elimination ballot', IRV was used in the British Columbia's general elections of 1952 and 1953. IRV was initially brought in by the governing coalition consisting of the Liberal and Conservative parties. In the next election many CCF supporters chose the relatively unknown Social Credit Party, a minor party that had never held any seats in the British Columbia legislature, as their second choice. The Social Credit Party achieved an upset victory in the 1952 election, winning 19 seats in the 48-member legislature to 18 for the CCF, 6 for the Liberals and 4 for the Conservatives. The Socreds formed a short-lived minority government until the 1953 election, in which they won a majority of seats (28 of 48). After the 1953 election, the Liberal and renamed Progressive Conservative Parties were reduced to third parties in the province, and first-past-the-post was reinstated by the government.\n\nToday IRV is used for certain party and private elections in Canada, including such large-scale elections at the Canadian Wheat Board, the Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta leadership election, 2006, where it has generated high turnout, and the British Columbia Liberal Party leadership election, 2011. The Liberal Party of Canada had adopted IRV with a national primary for its leadership elections.\n\nThe President of India is chosen by an electoral college consisting of the elected members of both houses of the Parliament and the elected members of the State Legislative Assemblies (Vidhan Sabha). The election is held with IRV, which in the Indian Constitution (Article 55) is called single transferable vote.\n\nThe single transferable vote (STV), a multi-seat variation of IRV, is used for all district health board elections. Starting in 2004, several New Zealand cities and local authorities began to use STV for their elections—including the nation's second largest city and capital Wellington and its fifth largest city Dunedin Where electing a mayor directly, these cities used instant runoff voting. In 2007, for example, Wellington's mayor Kerry Prendergast defeated her 10 rivals on the 9th round of counting. Other contested IRV races have included the Dunedin mayoral election, 2010 and Wellington City mayoral election, 2010.\n\nAs of September 2013, seven authorities are elected with STV: Dunedin City Council, Greater Wellington Council, Kapiti Coast District Council, Marlborough District Council, Palmerston North City Council, Porirua City Council, and Wellington City Council. Wellington upheld STV in a 2008 ballot measure.\n\nThe New Zealand Labour Party in 2013 was using IRV to pick a new party leader.\n\nA form of IRV has been used to elect members of parliament since last plurality voting election in 2002. Called \"limited preferential voting\" because voters are limited to ranking three candidates, the system has been credited with reducing election violence in a highly fractured political system.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland IRV is used for presidential elections and for by-elections to the Dáil (the lower house of parliament). Most elections in the Republic use the Single Transferable Vote, STV. The STV system was first introduced for a national election when the abortive Parliament of Southern Ireland was elected in 1921. It was provided, at the same time, that by-elections for the body would occur under IRV. When what is now the Republic seceded from the United Kingdom in 1922 STV was adopted for ordinary elections to Dáil Éireann and IRV for by-elections, and this combination has been used ever since. STV is also used for local and European elections, but in these cases by-elections do not occur. Instead local council vacancies are filled by co-option and European vacancies by an individual from a list of replacements nominated by the MEP at the time of his election.\n\nThe office of President of Ireland has existed since the adoption of the current Constitution of Ireland in 1937, which provided that the President would be elected by IRV. However the first election did not occur until 1945. This is because the constitution also allows that, where there is agreement among political parties, a consensus candidate can come to office without the occurrence of an election. The President occupies a largely ceremonial position, as real power is exercised by the Taoiseach (prime minister) and Dáil.\n\nOn the island of Ireland IRV is not referred to as 'instant-runoff voting' and only rarely as the 'Alternative Vote', the name popular in Great Britain. Instead it is usually called the 'Single Transferable Vote' or, sometimes, incorrectly, 'proportional representation'. The name \"Single Transferable Vote\" is used because when the rules of STV are applied to a single-winner election, such as a presidential election or by-election, STV becomes one and the same as IRV. However this can be confusing because there are many important differences between the use of STV for multi-seat elections and IRV. For this reason many scholars regard STV as a separate system from IRV, and that is the convention followed in this article. It is incorrect to refer to IRV as 'proportional representation' because the term \"proportional representation\" can only meaningfully be applied to an election in which more than a single candidate is returned.\n\nIRV is currently used in the United Kingdom for by-elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly and to local assemblies in Scotland, both of which use the single transferable vote method of proportional representation in regularly scheduled elections. It is used in its contingent vote form (also called the supplementary vote), for all direct elections for mayor in England, including in London. It is used to fill vacancies within the House of Lords, to elect the leaders of the Liberal Democrats and the Labour Party and for many private elections, including for Chancellor of Oxford University and rectorial elections at the University of Edinburgh. IRV was the electoral method available to select a replacement MEP by election for the Northern Ireland constituency of the European parliament, however now a party can co-opt a replacement without the need for a by-election.\n\nIRV has been debated vigorously in the country since the early 20th century. In 1917, for example, the Speaker's Conference advocated the adoption of IRV for 358 of the 569 constituencies in the UK, and STV for the rest; its intention was that STV would be used in densely populated urban areas but, in order to keep constituencies from being too large, IRV would be used in more sparsely populated rural areas. Although the House of Commons voted in favour of the proposals five times, the House of Lords rejected it until the nationwide effort was ultimately abandoned in parliament.\n\nIn 1921 the Government of Ireland Act established two home rule parliaments in Ireland–the Parliament of Northern Ireland and the Parliament of Southern Ireland–and while STV was used for regular elections to these bodies IRV was used for by-elections. This combination of IRV and STV has been used in what is now the Republic of Ireland ever since. The Northern Ireland Parliament continued to use the combination until the late 1920s when it switched to the 'first past the post' plurality system. However STV for regular elections, and IRV for by-elections, has been reintroduced and used there to elect devolved assemblies since the 1970s.\n\nIRV is usually referred to in the UK as the 'Alternative Vote' or 'AV'. In 1998 the Jenkins Commission, charged by the government with suggesting an alternative system to plurality, devised a new system called the Alternative Vote Plus (AV+) for elections to the British Parliament. This involved a combination of party-list proportional representation and single seat constituencies elected under IRV. However no action has been taken on the Commission's report.\n\nIn March 2009 the government announced that it would run an inquiry into the use of IRV at future general elections, and in February 2010 the House of Commons voted to hold a national referendum on AV. The government's term expired before this legislation was approved, but in July 2010, newly elected Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg announced a referendum on AV. On May 5, 2011, the referendum was defeated by 68% to 32%, as detailed in United Kingdom Alternative Vote referendum, 2011.\n\nSince 1917, IRV has been used in various United States jurisdictions. Since 2002, IRV has been adopted by more than a dozen cities, with some adoptions pending implementation. As of September 2013, American cities currently using IRV to elect at least one office include Minneapolis, Minnesota; Oakland, California; St. Paul, Minnesota; San Francisco, California; Takoma Park, Maryland; Berkeley, California; San Leandro, California; and Telluride, Colorado. Since 1941, the single transferable vote, a multi-seat variation of IRV, has been used to elect the city council and school committee in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nSan Francisco's system of IRV was challenged in federal court, but a unanimous panel of the US Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit upheld San Francisco's IRV law, finding that the plaintiff failed to establish that the City's chosen electoral system was unconstitutional. \n\n"}
{"id": "8650374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8650374", "title": "History of the Scottish Socialist Party", "text": "History of the Scottish Socialist Party\n\nIn Scotland, the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) is a left-wing political party. The party was formed in 1998 from an alliance of left-wing organisations in Scotland. In 1999, it saw its first MSP returned to Holyrood, with five more MSPs elected in 2003. It lost all MSPs in the 2007 elections and has lacked representation in the Scottish Parliament ever since.\n\nThe forerunner of the SSP was the Scottish Socialist Alliance (SSA), a coalition of left-wing bodies in Scotland formed in 1996. Around 400 people attended the SSA's launch rally in Glasgow in February 1996, which attracted socialists and communists from various party backgrounds. The largest group involved was Scottish Militant Labour.\n\nThe first election fought by the SSA was the Toryglen by-election for Glasgow City Council in August 1996, with Rosie Kane as the candidate, where it won a respectable 18% of the vote. The SSA went on to contest 16 seats in Scotland at the United Kingdom general election, 1997, including all ten Glasgow seats, Edinburgh North and Leith, and both Dundee seats. Tommy Sheridan saved his deposit in Glasgow Pollok, and Jim McVicar and Alan McCombes picked up a significant vote in Glasgow Baillieston and Glasgow Govan respectively.\n\nThe SSA's electoral stance was that there needed to be a left-wing alternative to New Labour and the SNP, and the SSA felt that the experience had been enough of a success to go on to form the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) in 1998, with Tommy Sheridan as its convenor, in advance of the Scottish Parliament general election, 1999.\n\nThe SSP contested the by-election for the European Parliament constituent of North East Scotland that took place in November 1998.\n\nIn April 1999 the SSP announced their manifesto for the first elections to the devolved Scottish Parliament. Despite only having a party membership of around 1,200 the SSP contested all the regions, with the party's National Convenor Tommy Sheridan the top-placed on their Glasgow regional list. Sheridan was elected, becoming their first MSP.\n\nThe period following the election of Scotland's only socialist MSP saw sustained growth for the SSP. During this period of sustained and rapid growth, it recruited extensively from former members of the Labour Party and the Scottish National Party, in addition to trade unionists, environmentalists, and community campaigners. It also achieved what was, for a minor party, a respectable vote at the United Kingdom general election, 2001 and a series of by-elections for the UK and Scottish parliaments (Hamilton South, Ayr, Glasgow Anniesland, and Falkirk West).\n\nThe 2003 elections to the Scottish Parliament took place shortly after the decision of the UK parliament to invade Iraq and the UK firefighter dispute 2002–2003. The SSP had been active in the anti-war movement and the firefighters' dispute, and fielded candidates in all seats.They gained five additional regional list MSPs across Scotland: Frances Curran; Rosie Kane; Carolyn Leckie; Colin Fox; and Rosemary Byrne.\n\nThe party had a boost when the Scottish section of the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) affiliated with them, breaking their historical association with Labour.\n\nCampbell Martin, a former SNP MSP who had become an independent, came fairly close to joining the SSP. The party did, however, recruit John McAllion, a former Labour MSP who lost his seat at the 2003 election. He stood for the SSP in the Dunfermline and West Fife by-election, 2006, but gained only 537 votes (1.6%).\n\nOn 11 November 2004, Tommy Sheridan resigned as convener of the Scottish Socialist Party, citing personal reasons. It later emerged that he had been pressured into resignation by the party's National Executive because he intended to sue a national tabloid newspaper over stories he knew to be true. Colin Fox was elected to replace him at the party's 2005 leadership election.\n\nBy early August 2006, Sheridan was looking to become leader of the Scottish Socialist Party again but on 29 August 2006, before the election had taken place, Sheridan announced his intention to leave and found a new political party which he called Solidarity. His move was supported by Rosemary Byrne MSP. Sheridan hoped his splinter group would attract as many as 700 SSP members.\n\nThe SSP met immediately before the split at a national rally on 2 September 2006, at which Fox said \"the vast majority of SSP members\" had not been persuaded of the need for a new party. As a result of the split, the party's national conference was brought forward from the following Spring to that October, and all of the party positions went up for election. All of the incumbents were re-elected, including Colin Fox as National Convener.\n\nIn October 2006 the RMT withdrew their support.\n\nAt the 2007 Scottish Parliament election, the SSP hemorrhaged votes while Solidarity failed to win a seat. At the local elections that year, the SSP retained one councillor, Jim Bollan, who was re-elected in West Dunbartonshire.\n\nFollowing the 2011 elections to the Scottish Parliament and the resulting SNP majority, the Scottish Government announced its intent to hold an independence referendum in 2014. In May 2012, a cross-party organisation called Yes Scotland was established to campaign for a Yes vote. The SSP's national co-spokesperson, Colin Fox, was invited to sit on its Advisory Board, reflecting the party's crucial support for independence over the past fifteen years. This was done at the insistence of Yes Scotland's non-partisan chief executive, Blair Jenkins, in the face of SNP opposition. During the referendum campaign, the party continued to campaign on other issues including the bedroom tax, fuel poverty, equal marriage, and the latest Israel-Gaza conflict.\n\nOn 11 September 2013, the SSP launched a pamphlet called \"The Case for an Independent Socialist Scotland\", the publication of which has been welcomed by MSPs. It has become the party's fastest-selling pamphlet ever. A launch event was held in the Scottish Parliament, hosted by Independent MSP John Finnie, and subsequent launch events took place in Paisley and Aberdeen. In June 2014, the party published another pamphlet outlining its case for \"a modern democratic republic\". In response to the publication of \"Scotland's Future\", the party issued a statement which said the Scottish Government's document had set out a vision that represents \"very significant advance for the people of Scotland\", but reaffirmed the SSP's commitment to a socialist Scotland.\n\nAs part of the party's campaign for independence, it held dozens of public meetings across Scotland with a range of speakers. The party's final meeting, scheduled to take place in Drumchapel Community Centre, was cancelled after unionist protests. In the aftermath, Richie Venton said: \"Those demonstrating may have learned that their support for a Westminster regime was impoverishing themselves and their communities. But what they should know is we shall continue to fight against austerity and the tyranny of the Tories over communities like Drumchapel, Govan, Easterhouse and indeed, Scotland.\"\n\nIn an interview with the \"Sunday Herald\" in late August 2014, Colin Fox said: \"The SSP has brought a proletarian sense to Yes Scotland and reminded people the decisive issue is whether people think they're going to be better off. It's not the currency, it's not the EU, it's not those highfalutin' chattering class issues.\" He said that the party brought \"a sense of the schemes, the workplaces, the unions\" to the campaign.\n\nAfter the announcement of the referendum result, the SSP was amongst the political parties that reported significant increases in the size of their membership. As of 23 September, more than 2,100 people had joined the party since the referendum result was declared. As a result, new branches were established across the country.\n\nWhen the make-up of the Smith Commission was announced, Colin Fox protested the decision to \"uniquely exclude\" the SSP from proceedings. He wrote to the Smith Commission: \"The argument some use to justify our exclusion on the grounds that we currently have no 'parliamentary representation' fails to appreciate that the referendum was not a parliamentary process but an unprecedented public debate that resulted in an extraordinary level of engagement from all sections of society. To exclude the SSP is to exclude an important constituency of opinion in Scottish society.\"\n\nThe SSP's 2014 National Conference took place in Edinburgh on 25 October and the party reported it had been better attended than the preceding several years and that their membership had trebled during the weeks following the referendum. It was the first SSP conference to be streamed live over the Internet.\n"}
{"id": "371846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371846", "title": "Hyphenated American", "text": "Hyphenated American\n\nIn the United States, the term hyphenated American refers to the use of a hyphen (in some styles of writing) between the name of an ethnicity and the word \"American\" in compound nouns, e.g., as in \"Irish-American\". It was an epithet used from 1890 to 1920 to disparage Americans who were of foreign birth or origin, and who displayed an allegiance to a foreign country through the use of the hyphen. It was most commonly directed at German Americans or Irish Americans (Catholics) who called for U.S. neutrality in World War I.\n\nIn this context, the term \"the hyphen\" was a metonymical reference to this kind of ethnicity descriptor, and \"dropping the hyphen\" referred to full integration into the American identity.\n\nPresident Theodore Roosevelt was an outspoken anti-hyphenate and Woodrow Wilson followed suit. Contemporary studies and debates refer to hyphenated-American identities to discuss issues such as multiculturalism and immigration in the U.S. political climate, however the hyphen is rarely used per the recommendation of modern style guides.\n\nThe term \"hyphenated American\" was published by 1889, and was common as a derogatory term by 1904. During World War I the issue arose of the primary political loyalty of ethnic groups with close ties to Europe, especially German Americans and also Irish Americans. Former President Theodore Roosevelt in speaking to the largely Irish Catholic Knights of Columbus at Carnegie Hall on Columbus Day 1915, asserted that,\nPresident Woodrow Wilson regarded \"hyphenated Americans\" with suspicion, saying, \"Any man who carries a hyphen about with him carries a dagger that he is ready to plunge into the vitals of this Republic whenever he gets ready.\"\n\nSome groups recommend dropping the hyphen because it implies to some people dual nationalism and inability to be accepted as truly American. The Japanese American Citizens League is supportive of dropping the hyphen because the non-hyphenated form uses their ancestral origin as an adjective for \"American.\"\n\nBy contrast, other groups have embraced the hyphen, arguing that the American identity is compatible with alternative identities and that the mixture of identities within the United States strengthens the nation rather than weakens it.\n\n\"European American\", as opposed to White or Caucasian, has been coined in response to the increasing racial and ethnic diversity of the US, as well as to this diversity moving more into the mainstream of the society in the latter half of the twentieth century. The term distinguishes whites of European ancestry from those of other ancestries. In 1977, it was proposed that the term \"European American\" replace \"white\" as a racial label in the US Census, although this was not done. The term \"European American\" is not in common use in the US among the general public or in the mass media, and the terms \"white\" or \"white American\" are commonly used instead.\n\nModern style guides most often recommend dropping the hyphen between the two names except when the compound is used as an adjective; some, including the Chicago Manual of Style, recommend dropping the hyphen even for the adjective form. On the other hand, compounds with name fragments, such as \"Afro-American\" and \"Indo-European\", are recommended to be hyphenated.\n\nThe first term typically indicates a region or culture of origin ancestry paired with \"American\".\nExamples:\n\nThe hyphen is occasionally but not consistently employed when the compound term is used as an adjective. Academic style guides (including APA, ASA, MLA, and Chicago Manual) do not use a hyphen in these compounds even when they are used as adjectives.\n\nThe linguistic construction functionally indicates ancestry, but also may connote a sense that these individuals straddle two worlds—one experience is specific to their unique ethnic identity, while the other is the broader multicultural amalgam that is Americana.\n\nLatin America includes most of the Western Hemisphere south of the United States, including Mexico, Central America, South America and (in some cases) the Caribbean. U.S. nationals with origins in Latin America are often referred to as Hispanic or Latino Americans, or by their specific country of origin, e.g., Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans and Cuban Americans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3040255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3040255", "title": "Individual and political action on climate change", "text": "Individual and political action on climate change\n\nIndividual and political action on climate change can take many forms. Many actions aim to build social and political support to limit, and subsequently reduce, the concentration of greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere, with the goal of mitigating climate change. Other actions seek to address the ethical and moral aspects of climate justice, especially with regard to the anticipated unequal impacts of climate change adaptation.\n\nPolitical action can change laws and regulations that relate to climate change.\n\nCarbon pricing methods, such as a carbon tax or an emissions trading system, are favored by many economists as the most efficient and effective means to reduce GHG emissions, and are increasingly being deployed around the world. In the U.S., groups such as the bipartisan legislative Climate Solutions Caucus and the Citizens Climate Lobby work to build support for carbon pricing.\n\nRegulations can strengthen GHG emission standards from particular sectors of the economy, such as the EPA's proposed Clean Power Plan for United States power plants, or vehicle standards in Europe and the United States.\n\nPolitical action can also gain media and public attention to climate change. Political action from the community, however, is often challenged by interests within the fossil-fuel industry, which have been charged with promoting climate change denial views in order to hold off a \"carbon bubble\" valuation crash.\n\nThere are many forms of political action on climate change including letter writing, direct lobbying, and public shaming of politicians and media organizations. Political action campaigns require building a base of support at local level.\n\nThe climate movement has emerged in recent years, given there is an increased awareness of the importance of global warming as a factor in a range of issues. Many environmental, economic, and social issues find common ground in mitigation of global warming.\n\nA number of groups from around the world have come together to work on the issue of global warming. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) from diverse fields of work have united on this issue. A coalition of 50 NGOs called Stop Climate Chaos launched in Britain (September 2005) to highlight the issue of climate change.\n\nThe Campaign against Climate Change was created to focus purely on the issue of climate change and to pressure governments into action by building a protest movement of sufficient magnitude to effect political change.\n\nCritical Mass is an event typically held on the last Friday of every month in various cities around the world wherein bicyclists and, less frequently, unicyclists, skateboarders, inline skaters, roller skaters and other self-propelled commuters take to the streets \"en masse.\" While the ride was founded in San Francisco with the idea of drawing attention to how unfriendly the city was to bicyclists, the leaderless structure of Critical Mass makes it impossible to assign it any one specific goal. In fact, the purpose of Critical Mass is not formalized beyond the direct action of meeting at a set location and time and traveling as a group through city or town streets.\n\nOne of the elements of the Occupy movement is global warming action.\n\nSucceeding environmentalist Bill McKibben's mantra that \"if it's wrong to wreck the climate, it's wrong to profit from that wreckage,\" fossil fuel divestment campaigns attempt to get public institutions, such as universities and churches, to remove investment assets from fossil fuel companies. By December 2016, a total of 688 institutions and over 58,000 individuals representing $5.5 trillion in assets worldwide had been divested from fossil fuels.\n\nGroups such as NextGen America and Climate Hawks Vote are working in the United States to elect officials who will make action on climate change a high priority.\n\nClimate disobedience is a form of civil disobedience, deliberate action intended to critique government climate policy. In 2008, American climate activist Tim DeChristopher posed as a bidder at an auction of US Bureau of Land Management oil and gas leases of public land in Utah, won the auction, reneged on payment, and was imprisoned for 21 months. In September 2015, five climate activists known as the Delta 5 obstructed an oil train in Everett, Washington. At trial, the Delta 5 were allowed the necessity defense, that is, breaking a law in the service of preventing a greater harm. After testimony, the judge determined the grounds for the necessity defense were not met and instructed the jury to disregard testimony admitted under the necessity defense. The Delta 5 were fined for trespassing but were acquitted of more serious charges.\n\nThe first example of a judge accepting the climate necessity defense was on March 27, 2018 when Judge Mary Ann Driscoll acquitted all 13 defendants of civil charges from a protest held in 2016 in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nThe Paris Agreement is an agreement within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) dealing with greenhouse gases emissions mitigation, adaptation and finance starting in the year 2020. The language of the agreement was negotiated by representatives of 195 countries at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the UNFCCC (COP21) in Paris and adopted by consensus on 12 December 2015.\n\nThe head of the Paris Conference, France's foreign minister Laurent Fabius, called the plan \"ambitious and balanced\" and an \"historic turning point\" in the goal of reducing global warming. Critics note that the agreement is not sufficient to achieve the 2 °C warming target, and the lack of any binding enforcement mechanism. Subsequent Conference of the Parties meetings are expected to address shortcomings in the Paris Agreement.\n\nAmid fierce opposition from scientists and other leaders around the world, U.S. President Donald Trump has pledged to pull out of the Paris Agreement.\n\nUnder the Kyoto Protocol, countries with targets could elect to reach these targets in co-operation with other countries. The European Union has decided to work as a unit to meet its emissions targets. The European climate change program attempts to do this by utilising an emissions trading scheme known as the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme. The principle of this scheme is quite simple: to make their legally binding commitments under Kyoto, countries can either make these savings within their own country, or they can buy these emissions reductions from other countries. These other countries would still need to meet their Kyoto targets, but the use of a free market system ensures the reductions are made for the least possible costs. Most reductions are made where these reductions are cheapest, and the excess reductions can be sold on to other countries where such cuts would be less economically viable. The EU ETS is arguably the global template for emissions trading schemes that are being implemented globally (China, South Korea, Tokyo and others).\n\nThe concept of Cap, Contraction and Convergence was proposed as a replacement to the Kyoto agreement. The idea here is that the limits to carbon emissions need to be capped at 350-450 parts per million, currently considered to produce a raise in world temperatures above pre-industrial levels of between 1 and 2 degrees Celsius. It is currently believed that further increases would bring about major positive feedbacks (the burning of forests and the loss of carbon from soils and oceans) which currently limit greenhouse gas emissions, and would lead to a run-away global warming similar to the Eocene period, during which there was no ice at the poles.\n\nTo sustain this figure, it has been proposed that on equity grounds, all people should be allocated an equal carbon footprint (currently about 2 tonnes per person, which by 2050 could fall to 1.5 tonnes per person through population increase). World per capita carbon emissions, currently in excess of 4 tonnes per person needs to contract to those levels, if these targets are to be met. As a result, in the name of global and inter-generational equity, policies needing to be instituted need to converge, over a fixed period towards this figure for every country. A trading regime, whereby which countries in excess of these figures (from example the US at 20 tonnes per capita), purchase carbon credits from a country using less than its allocation (e.g. Kenya at 1.3 tonnes per capita), is considered by many as the best way of solving this problem.\n\nFor example, the Contract and Converge strategy was adopted by India, China and many African countries as the basis for future negotiations. The UK Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution said in 2000 \"the UK should be prepared to accept the contraction and convergence principle is the basis for international agreement on greenhouse gas emissions\".\n\nSome states, regions, and cities in the world are taking the lead on developing emissions reduction methods in the absence of federal policy, and may provide models for future national efforts. Their efforts are achieving real measurable emissions reductions and by pursuing policies and programs that have climate benefits, they have promoted state economic development, improved air quality and trimmed their vulnerability to energy price spikes. In the long run, addressing climate change will require comprehensive national policy and international agreements. However, in the absence of federal policy, states and regions are taking the lead on developing policies that may provide models for future national efforts.\n\nThe Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI, pronounced \"Reggie\") is the first mandatory market based program in the United States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. RGGI is a cooperative effort among the states of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont to cap and reduce CO emissions from the power sector. In effect since January 1, 2009, the program is now in its third 3-year compliance period (2015-2017). As of 2016, RGGI has cut power plant carbon emissions in the region by 37%, while saving customers over $395 million on their bills.\n\nThe city promotes a meat-free day on Thursdays called Veggiedag, with vegetarian-only food in public canteens for civil servants and elected councillors, soon in all schools, and promotion of vegetarian eating options in town (through the distribution of \"veggie street maps\"). This campaign is linked to the recognition of the detrimental environmental effects of meat production, which the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization has established to represent nearly one-fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nThe town of Totnes in Devon through its \"Transition Town Totnes\" Project has adopted an Energy Descent Plan, as a response in answer to the twin problems of greenhouse gas emissions and peak oil. As a result of a series of large, well attended public gatherings with key experts from around the world, and the organisation of a number of special interest groups, the community has come together with lecturers and trainers shared with Schumacher College, through a process of participative strategic planning, to hone their skills in project development. As a result of the initiatives in Totnes, a large number of other communities have started \"Transition Town\" projects, and there are now more than 400 around the world, ranging from small communities to whole cities (e.g. Berlin).\n\nThe concepts of including food miles or carbon neutral labels on packaging has been gaining interest in the UK.\n\nThe Carbon Conversations is a psychosocial project that focuses on the agency of individuals to encourage personal action to reduce carbon emissions. The project touches on four main topics: i) home energy; ii) food; iii) travel; iv) consumption and waste; and v) talking with family and friends. The project understands that individuals often fail to adopt low-carbon lifestyles not because of practical barriers to change (e.g.: there is no renewable energy available), but because of aspects related to their values, emotions, and identity. The project offers a supportive group experience that helps people reduce their personal carbon dioxide emissions by 1 tonne CO2 on average and aim at halving it in the long term. They deal with the difficulties of change by connecting to values, emotions and identity. The groups are based on a psychosocial understanding of how people change. Groups of 6-8 members meet six or twelve times with trained facilitators in homes, community centres, workplaces or other venues. The meetings create a non-judgmental atmosphere where people are encouraged to make serious lifestyle changes.\n\nCarbon Conversations was cited in \"The Guardian\" newspaper as one of the 20 best ideas to tackle climate change.\n\n\n\nRegarding Climate change policy of the United States, see \"The Climate War\" (2010) by Eric Pooley deputy editor of Bloomberg Businessweek \n"}
{"id": "3700467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3700467", "title": "Institutionalism (international relations)", "text": "Institutionalism (international relations)\n\nIn international relations, institutionalism comprises a group of differing theories on international relations (IR). Functionalist and neofunctionalist approaches, regime theory, and state cartel theory have in common their focus on the role of formal and informal rules, norms, practices, and conventions for international politics.\n\nThe functional theory of David Mitrany is the oldest institutional theory of IR. Mitrany suggested that slim \"functional agencies\" should organize the needs of cooperation among even conflicting states. The neofunctionalism and the communitarian method of Jean Monnet advocated the principle of supranationality: international bodies superordinated to the nation states should administer the common interests. The functionalist approaches have been often criticized to be idealistic and normative in their positive view on international institutions.\n\nRegime theory holds that the international system is not—in practice—anarchic, but that it has an implicit or explicit structure which determines how states will act within the system.\n\n\"Regimes\" are \"institutions\" or \"rules\" that determine the decision-making process. In the international arena, \"institution\" has been used interchangeably with \"regime\", which has been defined by Krasner as a set of explicit or implicit \"principles, norms, rules, and decision-making procedures around which actors' expectations converge in a given issue-area\".\n\nRegime theorists hold a wide array of beliefs stemming from the central proposition that regimes as international institutions \"matter\" in answering the question, what explains a particular outcome? There are four reasons for this:\n\n\nState cartel theory imported its terminology from the classical cartel theory of economic enterprises and thus is much more concrete than regime theory. On the field of international relations nation states are searching advantages by cooperation or by fighting out conflicts. But from a certain degree both of the compaction of international (economic) relations and of the development of military technology war discards more and more as a method of conflict. Now the states have to get along with each other, and hence they cartelize more and more issues of their politics in international institutions. Like in enterprise cartels the \"members' assembly\" is always the main institution of the combinations: the respective council of ministers or delegates, e.g., the Council of the European Union. All further institutions are the result of the will and the needs of the members and have serving functions (secretary, operative commissions, arbitration board), e.g., European Commission and European Court.\n\nThis school attempts to explain collective choices by rational actors. Outcomes are a product of the interaction between actor preferences \"and\" institutional rules. \n\nRational institutionalists also regard institutions as themselves being rationally chosen by actors who view the rules as facilitating the pursuit of their goals. For example, the institutional decision-making rules of the European Union are such that the largest states can structure political outcomes.\n\nThe historical institutionalism school believes that institutional factors account for differences in cross-national political outcomes. There are two elements:\n\n\nTheda Skocpol's work illustrates an example of historical institutionalism. Responses to the Great Depression of the 1930s differed greatly between Sweden and the United Kingdom, which had similar problems in terms of severity and duration. The two countries responded with vastly different policies due to differences in existing domestic institutional structures.\n\nNeorealism, or structural realism, is a theory of international relations, outlined by Kenneth Waltz in his 1979 book, \"Theory of International Politics\". Waltz argues in favor of a systemic realist approach: the international structure acts as a constraint on state behavior, so that different states behave in a similar rational manner, and outcomes fall within an expected range.\n\nNeoliberalism refers to a school of thought which believes that nation-states are, or at least should be, concerned first and foremost with absolute gains (economic, strategic, etc.), rather than relative gains to other nation-states. Since their approach tends to emphasize the possibility of mutual wins, they are interested in institutions which can arrange jointly profitable arrangements and compromises.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32854306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32854306", "title": "JobBridge", "text": "JobBridge\n\nJobBridge was a national internship scheme formulated in 2011 by the government of Ireland.\n\nJobBridge's stated aim was to \"assist in breaking the cycle where jobseekers were unable to get a job without experience.\" €50 was added to the trainee's weekly unemployment allowance. In an attempt to prevent abuse, employers could not have laid anyone off within three months prior to signing up for the scheme and trainees must had been on the live register for three months or more.\n\n, 1,285 internships had been listed on the scheme's website, with a further 500 being vetted for listing, 473 interns had been selected and 292 had started their programs. On 9 August 2011 the National Economic and Social Council called for the scheme to be expanded beyond the initial 5000 internships originally planned in order to make a bigger difference to unemployment.\n\nOn 22 May 2016, it was announced by Social Protection Minister Leo Varadkar, that the internship scheme was to be discontinued after five years. Varadkar said that he was going to replace the JobBridge internship scheme with a more targeted scheme in 2017. This announcement came a week after Minister of State for Training and Skills John Halligan called for the controversial scheme to be cut.\n\nOn 21 October 2016, the JobBridge scheme was officially closed down.\n\nJobBridge attracted criticism from campaign groups, politicians and trainees alike. Disability rights organisations, including the Association for Higher Education Access and Disability (Ahead) and The Irish Wheelchair Association, had in the past criticised JobBridge for excluding people with disabilities who were in receipt of disability allowance.\n\nAll of Ireland's opposition political parties spoke out against JobBridge. Fianna Fáil called for the abolition of JobBridge to end the “exploitation of young Irish people by the programme”. Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams accused the government of massaging unemployment figures through \"forced labour\" schemes like JobBridge and Gateways. Former Socialist Party MEP Paul Murphy said “the taxpayer is subsidising free labour for big companies as well as the exploitation of the interns themselves”. He criticised car repair firm Advance Pitstop for seeking to hire 28 interns through the scheme, which he claimed would save it €377,000 compared to the cost of hiring full-time staff. Joe O'Connor, USI President, said that while the USI believed there was a need for quality internships and real upskilling opportunities for young people in Ireland, it was clear that JobBridge was “broken beyond repair”.“Any internship scheme should be properly monitored and regulated, and should not displace fully paid labour. Clearly, JobBridge is failing in that respect, and we believe it should be brought to an end.”\n\nIreland's former social affairs minister Joan Burton, meanwhile, considered the scheme to have been a success. She said that a further 1,000 internships would be provided for and claimed on 9 May 2012 that 38% of those on JobBridge (797 people) had gone on to full-time employment. At first sight, that looked like a qualified success, but at closer inspection, it became clear that JobBridge failed to provide proper jobs for the unemployed. The government's Indecon report showed that 59% of people did not complete their internships. The government euphemistically referred to them as internships that ‘were ended before their scheduled timeframe', or as 'early-completers'. The government claimed that nearly 60% of internships resulted in employment. This was just more spin, only 19.5% progressed immediately to get a job with their 'host company', the rest was made up of people who gain employment afterwards which did not have any direct link to JobBridge. Also, only 45% of these were in full-time paid employment.\n\nThe government study also found a large percentage of employers were highly or fairly unlikely to take on a paid employee in the absence of the JobBridge scheme. This meant that the scheme was creating a process where workers went through what was in effect a 9-month long interview process. The government study found that 3% of employers (over 200 companies) admitted to displacing existing jobs, yet the government only barred 35 companies from the scheme.\n\n“JobBridge is not just an attack on those seeking work but also part of a much broader attempt to reduce the pay and conditions of workers in all sectors of the economy,” commented CWU Youth Committee Chair, Derek Keenan. “The scheme has depressed real job creation by allowing employers to avail of a free labour pool of unemployed workers desperate to get a foothold within the labour market. This abuse must cease; everyone deserves to be paid for their labour and we are calling on the government to phase out the scheme,” he added.\n\nA \"Republic of Telly\" sketch compared JobBridge with the Oscar-winning film \"12 Years a Slave\". The sketch compared the government's JobBridge scheme to slavery, making several salient points, including \"Why don't they just create real jobs\" and \"I thought the whole point of an internship was that you had a job at the end?\"\n\nIn September 2014, there was controversy over the scheme's use for hiring school cleaners. The Department of Social Protection subsequently removed all references to school cleaners and caretakers from the JobBridge register.\n"}
{"id": "18610827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18610827", "title": "Knoxville Unitarian Universalist church shooting", "text": "Knoxville Unitarian Universalist church shooting\n\nOn July 27, 2008, a politically motivated fatal shooting took place at the Tennessee Valley Unitarian Universalist Church in Knoxville, Tennessee. Motivated by a desire to kill liberals and Democrats, gunman Jim David Adkisson fired a shotgun at members of the congregation during a youth performance of a musical, killing two people and wounding seven others.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist church hosted a youth performance of \"Annie Jr.\" Some 200 people were watching the performance by 25 children when Adkisson entered the church and opened fire on the audience. 60-year-old Greg McKendry, a longtime church member and usher who deliberately stood in front of the gunman to protect others, was killed at the scene. A 61-year-old woman, Linda Kraeger, died from wounds suffered during the attack later that night. Kraeger was a member of Westside Unitarian Universalist Church in Farragut.\n\nThe shooter was stopped when church members John Bohstedt, Robert Birdwell, Arthur Bolds, and Terry Uselton, along with visitor Jamie Parkey, restrained him.\n\nJim David Adkisson (born June 25, 1950) was a former private in the United States Army from 1974 to 1977. After his arrest, he said that he was motivated by hatred of Democrats, liberals, African Americans and homosexuals. According to an affidavit by one of the officers who interviewed Adkisson on July 27, 2008:\n\nDuring the interview Adkisson stated that he had targeted the church because of its liberal teachings and his belief that all liberals should be killed because they were ruining the country, and that he felt that the Democrats had tied his country's hands in the war on terror and they had ruined every institution in America with the aid of major media outlets. Adkisson made statements that because he could not get to the leaders of the liberal movement that he would then target those that had voted them into office. Adkisson stated that he had held these beliefs for about the last ten years.\n\nAdditionally, one of Adkisson's former wives had been a member (in the 1990s) of the church where the attack occurred.\n\nAdkisson's manifesto also cited the inability to find a job. His manifesto stated that he intended to keep shooting until police arrived and expected to be killed by police. Adkisson had a waist satchel with more ammunition, totaling 76 shells of #4 shot.\n\nIn his manifesto, Adkisson also included the Democratic members of the House and Senate, and the \"100 People Who Are Screwing Up America\" of Bernard Goldberg in his list of wished-for targets.\n\nMany Unitarian Universalist congregations held special vigils and services in response to the Knoxville shooting. The Tennessee Valley Unitarian Universalist Church scheduled a rededication ceremony on August 3, 2008, at which the Rev. Dr. John A. Buehrens, a former president of the Unitarian Universalist Association (UUA) and former pastor of TVUUC spoke. The UUA president, Rev. William G. Sinkford, spoke at a vigil held at Second Presbyterian Church, in Knoxville, on July 28, 2008. A relief fund was created by the UUA and its Thomas Jefferson District to aid those affected by the shooting. On August 10, 2008, the Unitarian Universalist Association took out a full-page ad in \"The New York Times\". The ad carried the message, \"Our Doors \"and\" Our Hearts Will Remain Open\". The Unitarian Universalist Association carried comprehensive coverage of the response of the UU faith community online.\n\nThe TVUUC Board voted to rename the 'greeting hall' to honor Greg McKendry, citing his outgoing and friendly personality, and to rename the church library to honor Linda Kraeger, citing her work as an author and professor. An oil painting of Greg McKendry was hung over the fireplace in the greeting hall.\n\nAt his first court appearance, Adkisson waived his rights to the preliminary hearing and requested the case go directly to the grand jury. Adkisson was represented by public defender Mark Stephens. Stephens indicated that this move was taken to get the case to trial stage as quickly as possible so resources would become available for a mental health assessment of Adkisson, indicating a possible insanity defense.\n\nOn August 21, 2008, Adkisson was arraigned on charges of murder and attempted murder and a trial date of March 16, 2009 was set. He remained in jail on a $1 million bond. It was reported that the FBI had opened a civil rights probe in regards to the case.\n\nOn February 4, 2009, lawyers representing Adkisson announced that he would plead guilty to two counts of murder, accepting a life sentence without possibility of parole.\n\nOn February 9, 2009, Adkisson pleaded guilty to killing two people and wounding six others. \"Yes, ma'am, I am guilty as charged,\" he told Criminal Court Judge Mary Beth Leibowitz before she sentenced him to life in prison without parole. A mental health expert had determined that Adkisson was competent to make the plea, although public defender Mark Stephens was prepared to argue at the trial that his client was insane at the time the crime was committed.\n\nVictims and church members wept as the prosecutor described the wounds that killed Greg McKendry and Linda Kraeger. The judge gave Adkisson a chance to address members of the congregation before sentencing him. \"No, ma'am,\" he snapped. \"I have nothing to say.\"\n\nJohn Bohstedt, one of the church members who tackled Adkisson, said he didn't believe that Adkisson was insane, but that he had been manipulated by anti-liberal rhetoric. \"Unbalanced, yes. Bitter, yes. Evil, yes. Insane, not in our ordinary use of the word,\" Bohstedt said.\n\nAssistant District Attorney Leslie Nassios said Adkisson gave a statement to police, which showed that he planned the attack on the church because he believed that Democrats and the church's liberal politics \"were responsible for his woes.\" Evidence showed that Adkisson bought the shotgun a month before the attack, sawed off the barrel at his home and carried the weapon into the church in a guitar case he had purchased two days before the shooting. He had written a suicide note and intended to keep firing until police officers arrived and killed him.\n\nAs of 2016, Adkisson, TOMIS ID 00450456, is incarcerated in the Northwest Correctional Complex (NWCX) prison of the Tennessee Department of Corrections. He has been incarcerated since July 27, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "447485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447485", "title": "Lincoln–Douglas debates", "text": "Lincoln–Douglas debates\n\nThe Lincoln–Douglas debates (also known as The Great Debates of 1858) were a series of seven debates between Abraham Lincoln, the Republican candidate for the United States Senate from Illinois, and incumbent Senator Stephen Douglas, the Democratic Party candidate. At the time, U.S. senators were elected by state legislatures; thus Lincoln and Douglas were trying for their respective parties to win control of the Illinois General Assembly. The debates previewed the issues that Lincoln would face in the aftermath of his victory in the 1860 presidential election. Although Illinois was a free state, the main issue discussed in all seven debates was slavery in the United States.\n\nIn agreeing to the official debates, Lincoln and Douglas decided to hold one debate in each of the nine congressional districts in Illinois. Because both had already spoken in two—Springfield and Chicago—within a day of each other, they decided that their \"joint appearances\" would be held in the remaining seven districts.\nThe debates were held in seven towns in the state of Illinois:\n\nThe debates in Freeport, Quincy, and Alton drew especially large numbers of people from neighboring states, as the issue of slavery was of monumental importance to citizens across the nation. Newspaper coverages of the debates were intense. Major papers from Chicago sent stenographers to create complete texts of each debate, which newspapers across the United States reprinted in full, with some partisan edits. Newspapers that supported Douglas edited his speeches to remove any errors made by the stenographers and to correct grammatical errors, while they left Lincoln's speeches in the rough form in which they had been transcribed. In the same way, pro-Lincoln papers edited Lincoln's speeches, but left the Douglas texts as reported.\n\nAfter winning a plurality of the voters but losing in the legislature, Lincoln edited the texts of all the debates and had them published in a book. The widespread coverage of the original debates and the subsequent popularity of the book led eventually to Lincoln's nomination for President of the United States by the 1860 Republican National Convention in Chicago.\n\nThe format for each debate was: one candidate spoke for 60 minutes, then the other candidate spoke for 90 minutes, and then the first candidate was allowed a 30-minute \"rejoinder.\" The candidates alternated speaking first. As the incumbent, Douglas spoke first in four of the debates.\n\nStephen Douglas was first elected to the United States Senate in 1846. In 1858, he was seeking re-election for a third term. During his time in the Senate, the issue of slavery was raised several times, particularly with respect to the Compromise of 1850. As chairman of the committee on territories, Douglas argued for an approach to slavery termed popular sovereignty; electorates at a local level would vote whether to adopt or reject a state constitution which prohibited slavery. Decisions about whether slavery was permitted or prohibited within certain states and territories had been made previously at a federal level. Douglas was successful with passage of the Kansas–Nebraska Act in 1854. Abraham Lincoln, like Douglas, had also been elected to Congress in 1846. He served one two-year term in the House of Representatives. During his time in the House, Lincoln disagreed with Douglas and supported the Wilmot Proviso, which sought to ban slavery in new territory. Lincoln returned to politics in the 1850s to oppose the Kansas–Nebraska Act, and help develop the new Republican party.\n\nBefore the debates, Lincoln said that Douglas was encouraging his fears of amalgamation of the races with enough success to drive thousands of people away from the Republican Party. Douglas tried to convince, especially the Democrats, that Lincoln was an abolitionist for saying that the American Declaration of Independence did apply to blacks as well as whites. Lincoln called a self-evident truth \"the electric cord ... that links the hearts of patriotic and liberty-loving men together\" of different ethnic backgrounds.\n\nLincoln argued in his House Divided Speech that Douglas was part of a conspiracy to nationalize slavery. Lincoln said that ending the Missouri Compromise ban on slavery in Kansas and Nebraska was the first step in this direction, and that the Dred Scott decision was another step in the direction of spreading slavery into Northern territories. Lincoln expressed the fear that the next Dred Scott decision would make Illinois a slave state.\n\nBoth Lincoln and Douglas had opposition. Although Lincoln was a former Whig, the prominent former Whig Judge Theophilus Lyle Dickey said that Lincoln was too closely tied to the abolitionists, and supported Douglas. But Democratic President James Buchanan opposed Douglas for defeating the Lecompton Constitution, which would have made Kansas a slave state, and set up a rival National Democratic party that drew votes away from him.\n\nThe main theme of the Lincoln–Douglas debates was slavery, particularly the issue of slavery's expansion into the territories. It was Douglas's Kansas–Nebraska Act that repealed the Missouri Compromise's ban on slavery in the territories of Kansas and Nebraska, and replaced it with the doctrine of popular sovereignty, which meant that the people of a territory could decide for themselves whether to allow slavery. Lincoln said that popular sovereignty would nationalize and perpetuate slavery. Douglas argued that both Whigs and Democrats believed in popular sovereignty and that the Compromise of 1850 was an example of this. Lincoln said that the national policy was to limit the spread of slavery, and mentioned (both at Jonesboro and later in his \"Cooper Union Address\") the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, which banned slavery from a large part of the modern-day Midwest, as an example of this policy.\n\nThe Compromise of 1850 allowed the territories of Utah and New Mexico to decide for or against slavery, but it also allowed the admission of California as a free state, reduced the size of the slave state of Texas by adjusting the boundary, and ended the slave trade (but not slavery itself) in the District of Columbia. In return, the South got a stronger Fugitive Slave Law than the version mentioned in the Constitution. Whereas Douglas said that the Compromise of 1850 replaced the Missouri Compromise ban on slavery in the Louisiana Purchase territory north and west of the state of Missouri, Lincoln said that this was false, and that Popular Sovereignty and the Dred Scott decision were a departure from the policies of the past that would nationalize slavery.\n\nThere were partisan remarks, such as Douglas' accusations that members of the \"Black Republican\" party, such as Lincoln, were abolitionists. Douglas cited as proof Lincoln's House Divided Speech in which he said, \"I believe this government cannot endure permanently half Slave and half Free.\" As Douglas said (audience response in parentheses):\n\nDouglas also charged Lincoln with opposing the \"Dred Scott\" decision because \"it deprives the negro of the rights and privileges of citizenship.\" Lincoln responded that \"the next Dred Scott decision\" could allow slavery to spread into free states. Douglas accused Lincoln of wanting to overthrow state laws that excluded blacks from states such as Illinois, which were popular with the northern Democrats. Lincoln did not argue for complete social equality. However, he did say Douglas ignored the basic humanity of blacks, and that slaves did have an equal right to liberty. As Lincoln said: \nAs Lincoln said: \n\nLincoln said he himself did not know how emancipation should happen. He believed in colonization, but admitted that this was impractical. Without colonization he said that it would be wrong for emancipated slaves to be treated as \"underlings,\" but that there was a large opposition to social and political equality, and that \"a universal feeling, whether well or ill-founded, cannot be safely disregarded.\" Lincoln said that Douglas' public indifference to slavery would result in the expansion of slavery because it would mold public sentiment to accept slavery. As Lincoln said: \n\nLincoln said Douglas \"cares not whether slavery is voted down or voted up,\" and that, in the words of Henry Clay, he would \"blow out the moral lights around us\" and eradicate the love of liberty.\n\nAt the debate at Freeport Lincoln forced Douglas to choose between two options, either of which would damage Douglas' popularity and chances of getting reelected. Lincoln asked Douglas to reconcile popular sovereignty with the Supreme Court's \"Dred Scott\" decision. Douglas responded that the people of a territory could keep slavery out even though the Supreme Court said that the federal government had no authority to exclude slavery, simply by refusing to pass a slave code and other legislation needed to protect slavery. Douglas alienated Southerners with this Freeport Doctrine, which damaged his chances of winning the Presidency in 1860. As a result, Southern politicians would use their demand for a slave code for territories such as Kansas to drive a wedge between the Northern and Southern wings of the Democratic Party. In splitting what was the majority political party in 1858 (the Democratic Party), Southerners guaranteed the election of Lincoln, the nominee of the newly formed Republican Party, in 1860.\n\nDouglas' efforts to gain support in all sections of the country through popular sovereignty failed. By allowing slavery where the majority wanted it, he lost the support of Republicans led by Lincoln who thought Douglas was unprincipled. By defeating a pro-slavery Lecompton Constitution and advocating a Freeport Doctrine to stop slavery in Kansas where the majority were anti-slavery, he lost the support of the South.\n\nBefore the debate at Charleston, Democrats held up a banner that read \"Negro equality\" with a picture of a white man, a negro woman and a mulatto child. At this debate Lincoln went further than before in denying the charge that he was an abolitionist, saying that:\n\nWhile denying abolitionist tendencies was effective politics, the African-American abolitionist Frederick Douglass remarked on Lincoln's \"entire freedom from popular prejudice against the colored race.\" In spite of Lincoln's denial of abolitionist tendencies, Stephen Douglas charged Lincoln with having an ally in Frederick Douglass in preaching \"abolition doctrines.\" Stephen Douglas said that \"the negro\" Frederick Douglass told \"all the friends of negro equality and negro citizenship to rally as one man around Abraham Lincoln.\" Stephen Douglas also charged Lincoln with a lack of consistency when speaking on the issue of racial equality, and cited Lincoln's previous statements that the declaration that all men are created equal applies to blacks as well as whites.\n\nLincoln said that slavery expansion endangered the Union, and mentioned the controversies caused by it in Missouri in 1820, in the territories conquered from Mexico that led to the Compromise of 1850, and again with the Bleeding Kansas controversy over slavery. Lincoln said that the crisis would be reached and passed when slavery was put \"in the course of ultimate extinction.\"\n\nAt Galesburg, Douglas sought again to prove that Lincoln was an abolitionist with the following quotations from Lincoln:\n\nAt Alton, Lincoln tried to reconcile his statements on equality. He said that the authors of the Declaration of Independence:\n\nLincoln contrasted his support for the Declaration with opposing statements made by the Southern politician John C. Calhoun and Senator John Pettit of Indiana, who called the Declaration \"a self-evident lie.\" Lincoln said that Chief Justice Roger Taney (in his Dred Scott decision) and Stephen Douglas were opposing Thomas Jefferson's self-evident truth, dehumanizing blacks and preparing the public mind to think of them as only property. Lincoln thought slavery had to be treated as a wrong, and kept from growing. As Lincoln said:\n\nLincoln used a number of colorful phrases in the debates, such as when he said that one argument by Douglas made a horse chestnut into a chestnut horse, and compared an evasion by Douglas to the sepia cloud from a cuttlefish. Lincoln said that Douglas' Freeport Doctrine was a do-nothing sovereignty that was \"as thin as the homeopathic soup that was made by boiling the shadow of a pigeon that had starved to death.\"\n\nThe October surprise of the election was the endorsement of the Democrat Douglas by former Whig John J. Crittenden. Non-Republican former Whigs comprised the biggest block of swing voters, and Crittenden's endorsement of Douglas rather than Lincoln, also a former Whig, reduced Lincoln's chances of winning.\n\nOn election day, as the districts were drawn to favor Douglas' party, the Democrats won 40 seats in the state house of Representatives, and the Republicans won 35. In the state senate, Republicans held 11 seats, and Democrats held 14. Stephen A. Douglas was reelected by the legislature, 54-46, even though Lincoln's Republicans won the popular vote with a percentage of 50.6%, or by 3,402 votes. However, the widespread media coverage of the debates greatly raised Lincoln's national profile, making him a viable candidate for nomination as the Republican candidate in the upcoming 1860 presidential election. He would go on to secure both the nomination and the presidency, beating Douglas (as the Northern Democratic candidate), among others, in the process.\n\nLincoln also went on to be in contact with editors looking to publish the debate texts. George Parsons, the Ohio Republican committee chairman, got Lincoln in touch with Ohio's main political publisher, Follett and Foster, of Columbus. They published copies of the text, and titled the book, \"Political Debates Between Hon. Abraham Lincoln and Hon. Stephen A. Douglas in the Celebrated Campaign of 1858, in Illinois.\" Four printings were made, and the fourth sold 16,000 copies.\n\nThe Lincoln–Douglas debate format that is used in high school and college competition today is named after this series of debates. Modern presidential debates trace their roots to the Lincoln–Douglas Debates, though the format today is remarkably different from the original.\n\nIn 1994, C-SPAN aired a series of reenactments of the debates, filmed on location. The locations for the debates in Illinois have established memorials featuring plaques and statuary of Douglas and Lincoln.\n\nThe 1940 film \"Abe Lincoln in Illinois\" includes an invented version of the debate.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "41151011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41151011", "title": "Ministry of Health and Population (Nepal)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Population (Nepal)\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Population is a governmental body of Nepal in charge of regulating the healthcare system and its implementation. The ministries tasks are manifold and include managing the development of the healthcare in Nepal, overseeing population policies, planning and implementation and overseeing non-governmental associated with health services in Nepal.\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Population runs and oversees all public hospitals in Nepal. These include four Regional Hospitals, 11 Zonal Hospitals, five Teaching hospitals, as well as district hospitals and general hospitals.\n\nThe Department of Health Services serves under the ministry to facilitate and implement its work, mainly deliver health services and to maintain public hospitals.\nFurthermore, two other departments also work under and with the ministry:\n\nThis is a list of former Minister of Health and Population since the Nepalese Constituent Assembly election in 2013. The name/portfolio of the ministry was adjusted several times, as the term \"population\" was dropped from the official name from 2015 to 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "17142753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17142753", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Iraq)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Iraq)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MOHESR) is the Iraq government agency responsible for higher education and scientific research. It monitors the work of universities and allocates their budgets. It is also responsible for the sponsorship of Iraqi students to study in overseas universities in Britain, the United States, Australia, and other countries, and has consulates in those places as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45958", "title": "Mutual assured destruction", "text": "Mutual assured destruction\n\nMutual assured destruction or mutually assured destruction (MAD) is a doctrine of military strategy and national security policy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two or more opposing sides would cause the complete annihilation of both the attacker and the defender (see pre-emptive nuclear strike and second strike). It is based on the theory of deterrence, which holds that the threat of using strong weapons against the enemy prevents the enemy's use of those same weapons. The strategy is a form of Nash equilibrium in which, once armed, neither side has any incentive to initiate a conflict or to disarm.\n\nUnder MAD, each side has enough nuclear weaponry to destroy the other side and that either side, if attacked for any reason by the other, would retaliate with equal or greater force. The expected result is an immediate, irreversible escalation of hostilities resulting in both combatants' mutual, total, and assured destruction. The doctrine requires that neither side construct shelters on a massive scale. If one side constructed a similar system of shelters, it would violate the MAD doctrine and destabilize the situation, because it would not have to fear the consequences of a second strike. The same principle is invoked against missile defense.\n\nThe doctrine further assumes that neither side will dare to launch a first strike because the other side would launch on warning (also called fail-deadly) or with surviving forces (a second strike), resulting in unacceptable losses for both parties. The payoff of the MAD doctrine was and still is expected to be a tense but stable global peace.\n\nThe primary application of this doctrine started during the Cold War (1940s to 1991), in which MAD was seen as helping to prevent any direct full-scale conflicts between the United States and the Soviet Union while they engaged in smaller proxy wars around the world. It was also responsible for the arms race, as both nations struggled to keep nuclear parity, or at least retain second-strike capability. Although the Cold War ended in the early 1990s, the MAD doctrine continues to be applied.\n\nProponents of MAD as part of U.S. and USSR strategic doctrine believed that nuclear war could best be prevented if neither side could expect to survive a full-scale nuclear exchange as a functioning state. Since the credibility of the threat is critical to such assurance, each side had to invest substantial capital in their nuclear arsenals even if they were not intended for use. In addition, neither side could be expected or allowed to adequately defend itself against the other's nuclear missiles. This led both to the hardening and diversification of nuclear delivery systems (such as nuclear missile silos, ballistic missile submarines, and nuclear bombers kept at fail-safe points) and to the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.\n\nThis MAD scenario is often referred to as nuclear deterrence. The term \"deterrence\" is now used in this context; originally, its use was limited to legal terminology.\n\nOne of the earliest references to the concept comes from the English author Wilkie Collins, writing at the time of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870: \"I begin to believe in only one civilizing influence—the discovery one of these days of a destructive agent so terrible that War shall mean annihilation and men's fears will force them to keep the peace.\"\n\nRichard Jordan Gatling patented his namesake rotary gun in 1862 with the partial intention of illustrating the futility of war.\n\nAfter his 1867 invention of dynamite, Alfred Nobel stated that \"The day when two army corps can annihilate each other in one second, all civilized nations, it is to be hoped, will recoil from war and discharge their troops.\"\n\nJan Gotlib Bloch in \"The Future of War\", published in 1898, argued that the state could not fight a war \"under modern conditions with any prospect of being able to carry that war to a conclusion by defeating its adversary by force of arms on the battlefield. No decisive war is possible that will not entail even upon the victorious Power, the destruction of its resources and the breakup of society. War has therefore become impossible, except at the price of suicide.\"\n\nIn 1937, Nikola Tesla published \"The Art of Projecting Concentrated Non-dispersive Energy through the Natural Media\", a treatise concerning charged particle beam weapons. Tesla described his device as a \"superweapon that would put an end to all war.\"\n\nIn March 1940, the Frisch–Peierls memorandum anticipated deterrence as the principal means of combating an enemy with nuclear weapons.\n\nIn August 1945, the United States accepted the surrender of Japan after the nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Four years later, on August 29, 1949, the Soviet Union detonated its own nuclear device. At the time, both sides lacked the means to effectively use nuclear devices against each other. However, with the development of aircraft like the American Convair B-36 and the Soviet Tupolev Tu-95, both sides were gaining a greater ability to deliver nuclear weapons into the interior of the opposing country. The official nuclear policy of the United States became one of \"massive retaliation\", as coined by President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, which called for massive attack against the Soviet Union if they were to invade Europe, regardless of whether it was a conventional or a nuclear attack.\n\nBy the time of the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, both the United States and the Soviet Union had developed the capability of launching a nuclear-tipped missile from a submerged submarine, which completed the \"third leg\" of the \"nuclear triad\" weapons strategy necessary to fully implement the MAD doctrine. Having a three-branched nuclear capability eliminated the possibility that an enemy could destroy all of a nation's nuclear forces in a first-strike attack; this, in turn, ensured the credible threat of a devastating retaliatory strike against the aggressor, increasing a nation's nuclear deterrence.\n\nThe RAND corporation futurist and cold war strategist Herman Kahn (1922–1982) believed that although MAD was useful as a metaphor, when pushed to its logical conclusion it became absurd. In his 1960 book \"On Thermonuclear War\" he advocated a more reasoned approach to nuclear warfare and was understood by some of his critics to be a nuclear war hawk in his writings. (He did however hold a profound belief in the possibility of success in the event of a nuclear war.) He used the concept of the Doomsday Machine as an \"idealized (almost caricaturized) device\" to illustrate the danger of taking MAD to its extreme. He writes, \"I used to be wary of discussing the concept for fear that some colonel would get out a General Operating Requirement or Development Planning Objective for the device\". The term, \"mutual assured destruction\", was coined by Donald Brennan, a strategist working in Kahn's Hudson Institute, in 1962.\n\nThe 1964 film \"Dr. Strangelove\" parodies some of Kahn's work, and the titular character makes parodic references to Kahn's research, as in this quote from the film (after the United States mistakenly launched a nuclear attack on the USSR): \"Under the authority granted me as director of weapons research and development, I commissioned last year a study of this project [of a doomsday machine] by the Bland Corporation. Based on the findings of the report, my conclusion was that this idea was not a practical deterrent, for reasons which, at this moment, must be all too obvious.\"\n\nSometime in the 1980s, a second, but real, doomsday device, called The Dead Hand, entered the picture in the Soviet Union. Unlike Kahn's device, it was not based on radioactive cobalt, but it was self-activated and could not be stopped.\n\nBeginning in 1955, the United States Strategic Air Command (SAC) kept one-third of its bombers on alert, with crews ready to take off within fifteen minutes and fly to designated targets inside the Soviet Union and destroy them with nuclear bombs in the event of a Soviet first-strike attack on the United States. In 1961, President John F. Kennedy increased funding for this program and raised the commitment to 50 percent of SAC aircraft.\n\nDuring periods of increased tension in the early 1960s, SAC kept part of its B-52 fleet airborne at all times, to allow an extremely fast retaliatory strike against the Soviet Union in the event of a surprise attack on the United States. This program continued until 1969. Between 1954 and 1992, bomber wings had approximately one-third of their assigned aircraft on quick reaction ground alert and were able to take off within a few minutes. SAC also maintained the National Emergency Airborne Command Post (NEACP, pronounced \"kneecap\"), also known as \"Looking Glass,\" which consisted of several EC-135s, one of which was airborne at all times from 1961 through 1990. During the Cuban missile crisis the bombers were dispersed to several different airfields, and also were sometimes airborne. For example, some were sent to Wright Patterson, which normally did not have B-52s.\n\nDuring the height of the tensions between the US and the USSR in the 1960s, two popular films were made dealing with what could go terribly wrong with the policy of keeping nuclear-bomb carrying airplanes at the ready: \"Dr. Strangelove\" (1964) and \"Fail Safe\" (1964).\nThe strategy of MAD was fully declared in the early 1960s, primarily by United States Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara. In McNamara's formulation there was the very real danger that a nation with nuclear weapons could attempt to eliminate another nation's retaliatory forces with a surprise, devastating first strike and theoretically \"win\" a nuclear war relatively unharmed. True second-strike capability could be achieved only when a nation had a \"guaranteed\" ability to fully retaliate after a first-strike attack.\n\nThe United States had achieved an early form of second-strike capability by fielding continual patrols of strategic nuclear bombers, with a large number of planes always in the air, on their way to or from fail-safe points close to the borders of the Soviet Union. This meant the United States could still retaliate, even after a devastating first-strike attack. The tactic was expensive and problematic because of the high cost of keeping enough planes in the air at all times and the possibility they would be shot down by Soviet anti-aircraft missiles before reaching their targets. In addition, as the idea of a missile gap existing between the US and the Soviet Union developed, there was increasing priority being given to ICBMs over bombers.\n\nIt was only with the advent of ballistic missile submarines, starting with the \"George Washington\" class in 1959, that a genuine survivable nuclear force became possible and a retaliatory second strike capability guaranteed.\n\nThe deployment of fleets of ballistic missile submarines established a guaranteed second-strike capability because of their stealth and by the number fielded by each Cold War adversary—it was highly unlikely that all of them could be targeted and preemptively destroyed (in contrast to, for example, a missile silo with a fixed location that could be targeted during a first strike). Given their long range, high survivability and ability to carry many medium- and long-range nuclear missiles, submarines were credible and effective means for full-scale retaliation even after a massive first strike.\n\nThis deterrence strategy and program has continued into the 21st century, with nuclear submarines carrying Trident II ballistic missiles as one leg of the U.S. strategic nuclear deterrent and as the sole deterrent of the United Kingdom. The USA's other such deterrent comprises the intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM)s on alert in the continental United States. Ballistic missile submarines are also operated by the navies of China, France, India and Russia.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense anticipates a continued need for a sea-based strategic nuclear force. The first of the current \"Ohio\"-class SSBNs are expected to be retired by 2029, meaning that a replacement platform must already be seaworthy by that time. A replacement may cost over $4 billion per unit compared to the USS \"Ohio\"s $2 billion. The U.S. Navy is exploring two options. The first is a variant of the nuclear attack submarines. The second is a dedicated SSBN, either with a new hull or based on an overhaul of the current \"Ohio\"-class.\n\nIn the 1960s both the Soviet Union (A-35 anti-ballistic missile system) and the United States (LIM-49 Nike Zeus) developed anti-ballistic missile systems. Had such systems been able to effectively defend against a retaliatory second strike, MAD would have been undermined, because a superpower could launch a first strike without fearing the consequences of a retaliatory second strike. See also Strategic Defense Initiative.\n\nThe multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicle (MIRV) was another weapons system designed specifically to aid with the MAD nuclear deterrence doctrine. With a MIRV payload, one ICBM could hold many separate warheads. MIRVs were first created by the United States in order to counterbalance the Soviet A-35 anti-ballistic missile systems around Moscow. Since each defensive missile could be counted on to destroy only one offensive missile, making each offensive missile have, for example, three warheads (as with early MIRV systems) meant that three times as many defensive missiles were needed for each offensive missile. This made defending against missile attacks more costly and difficult. One of the largest U.S. MIRVed missiles, the LGM-118A Peacekeeper, could hold up to 10 warheads, each with a yield of around —all together, an explosive payload equivalent to 230 Hiroshima-type bombs. The multiple warheads made defense untenable with the available technology, leaving the threat of retaliatory attack as the only viable defensive option. MIRVed land-based ICBMs tend to put a premium on striking first. The START II agreement was proposed to ban this type of weapon, but never entered into force.\n\nIn the event of a Soviet conventional attack on Western Europe, NATO planned to use tactical nuclear weapons. The Soviet Union countered this threat by issuing a statement that any use of nuclear weapons (tactical or otherwise) against Soviet forces would be grounds for a full-scale Soviet retaliatory strike (massive retaliation). Thus it was generally assumed that any combat in Europe would end with apocalyptic conclusions.\n\nMIRVed land-based ICBMs are generally considered suitable for a first strike (inherently counterforce) or a counterforce second strike, due to:\n\nUnlike a decapitation strike or a countervalue strike, a counterforce strike might result in a potentially more constrained retaliation. Though the Minuteman III of the mid-1960s was MIRVed with three warheads, heavily MIRVed vehicles threatened to upset the balance; these included the SS-18 Satan which was deployed in 1976, and was considered to threaten Minuteman III silos, which led some neoconservatives to conclude a Soviet first strike was being prepared for. This led to the development of the aforementioned Pershing II, the Trident I and Trident II, as well as the MX missile, and the B-1 Lancer.\n\nMIRVed land-based ICBMs are considered destabilizing because they tend to put a premium on striking first. When a missile is MIRVed, it is able to carry many warheads (up to eight in existing U.S. missiles, limited by New START, though Trident II is capable of carrying up to 12) and deliver them to separate targets. If it is assumed that each side has 100 missiles, with five warheads each, and further that each side has a 95 percent chance of neutralizing the opponent's missiles in their silos by firing two warheads at each silo, then the attacking side can reduce the enemy ICBM force from 100 missiles to about five by firing 40 missiles with 200 warheads, and keeping the rest of 60 missiles in reserve. As such, this type of weapon was intended to be banned under the START II agreement; however, the START II agreement was never brought into force, and neither Russia nor the United States ratified the agreement.\n\nThe original U.S. MAD doctrine was modified on July 25, 1980, with U.S. President Jimmy Carter's adoption of \"countervailing strategy\" with Presidential Directive 59. According to its architect, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, \"countervailing strategy\" stressed that the planned response to a Soviet attack was no longer to bomb Soviet population centers and cities primarily, but first to kill the Soviet leadership, then attack military targets, in the hope of a Soviet surrender before total destruction of the Soviet Union (and the United States). This modified version of MAD was seen as a winnable nuclear war, while still maintaining the possibility of assured destruction for at least one party. This policy was further developed by the Reagan administration with the announcement of the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI, nicknamed \"Star Wars\"), the goal of which was to develop space-based technology to destroy Soviet missiles before they reached the United States.\n\nSDI was criticized by both the Soviets and many of America's allies (including Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Margaret Thatcher) because, were it ever operational and effective, it would have undermined the \"assured destruction\" required for MAD. If the United States had a guarantee against Soviet nuclear attacks, its critics argued, it would have first-strike capability, which would have been a politically and militarily destabilizing position. Critics further argued that it could trigger a new arms race, this time to develop countermeasures for SDI. Despite its promise of nuclear safety, SDI was described by many of its critics (including Soviet nuclear physicist and later peace activist Andrei Sakharov) as being even more dangerous than MAD because of these political implications. Supporters also argued that SDI could trigger a new arms race, forcing the USSR to spend an increasing proportion of GDP on defense—something which has been claimed to have been an indirect cause of the eventual collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nProponents of ballistic missile defense (BMD) argue that MAD is exceptionally dangerous in that it essentially offers a single course of action in the event of nuclear attack: full retaliatory response. The fact that nuclear proliferation has led to an increase in the number of nations in the \"nuclear club\", including nations of questionable stability (e.g. North Korea), and that a nuclear nation might be hijacked by a despot or other person or persons who might use nuclear weapons without a sane regard for the consequences, presents a strong case for proponents of BMD who seek a policy which both protects against attack, but also does not require an escalation into what might become global nuclear war. Russia continues to have a strong public distaste for Western BMD initiatives, presumably because proprietary operative BMD systems could exceed their technical and financial resources and therefore degrade their larger military standing and sense of security in a post-MAD environment. Russian refusal to accept invitations to participate in NATO BMD may be indicative of the lack of an alternative to MAD in current Russian war fighting strategy due to dilapidation of conventional forces after the breakup of the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter the fall of the Soviet Union, the Russian Federation emerged as a sovereign entity encompassing most of the territory of the former USSR. Relations between the United States and Russia were, at least for a time, less tense than they had been with the Soviet Union.\n\nThe administration of U.S. President George W. Bush withdrew from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty in June 2002, claiming that the limited national missile defense system which they proposed to build was designed only to prevent nuclear blackmail by a state with limited nuclear capability and was not planned to alter the nuclear posture between Russia and the United States.\n\nWhile relations have improved and an intentional nuclear exchange is more unlikely, the decay in Russian nuclear capability in the post-Cold War era may have had an effect on the continued viability of the MAD doctrine. A 2006 article by Keir Lieber and Daryl Press stated that the United States could carry out a nuclear first strike on Russia and would \"have a good chance of destroying every Russian bomber base, submarine, and ICBM.\" This was attributed to reductions in Russian nuclear stockpiles and the increasing inefficiency and age of that which remains. Lieber and Press argued that the MAD era is coming to an end and that the United States is on the cusp of global nuclear primacy.\n\nHowever, in a follow-up article in the same publication, others criticized the analysis, including Peter Flory, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy, who began by writing \"The essay by Keir Lieber and Daryl Press contains so many errors, on a topic of such gravity, that a Department of Defense response is required to correct the record.\" Regarding reductions in Russian stockpiles, another response stated that \"a similarly one-sided examination of [reductions in] U.S. forces would have painted a similarly dire portrait\".\n\nA situation in which the United States might actually be expected to carry out a \"successful\" attack is perceived as a disadvantage for both countries. The strategic balance between the United States and Russia is becoming less stable, and the objective, technical possibility of a first strike by the United States is increasing. At a time of crisis, this instability could lead to an accidental nuclear war. For example, if Russia feared a U.S. nuclear attack, Moscow might make rash moves (such as putting its forces on alert) that would provoke a U.S. preemptive strike.\n\nAn outline of current U.S. nuclear strategy toward both Russia and other nations was published as the document \"Essentials of Post–Cold War Deterrence\" in 1995.\n\nWhether MAD was the officially accepted doctrine of the United States military during the Cold War is largely a matter of interpretation. The United States Air Force, for example, has retrospectively contended that it never advocated MAD as a sole strategy, and that this form of deterrence was seen as one of numerous options in U.S. nuclear policy. Former officers have emphasized that they never felt as limited by the logic of MAD (and were prepared to use nuclear weapons in smaller-scale situations than \"assured destruction\" allowed), and did not deliberately target civilian cities (though they acknowledge that the result of a \"purely military\" attack would certainly devastate the cities as well). However, according to a declassified 1959 Strategic Air Command study, U.S. nuclear weapons plans specifically targeted the populations of Beijing, Moscow, Leningrad, East Berlin, and Warsaw for systematic destruction. MAD was implied in several U.S. policies and used in the political rhetoric of leaders in both the United States and the USSR during many periods of the Cold War.\n\nThe doctrine of MAD was officially at odds with that of the USSR, which had, contrary to MAD, insisted survival was possible. The Soviets believed they could win not only a strategic nuclear war, which they planned to absorb with their extensive civil defense planning, but also the conventional war that they predicted would follow after their strategic nuclear arsenal had been depleted. Official Soviet policy, though, may have had internal critics towards the end of the Cold War, including some in the USSR's own leadership.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAt an Oxford Union debate in 1985, debating the proposition that Nuclear Weapons are Morally Indefensible, former New Zealand Prime Minister David Lange argued \"that the fear [nuclear weapons] inspire is not a justification for their existence,\" arguing instead that nuclear armament is irrational, morally indefensible and makes us insecure.\n\nThere is, Mr President, a quality of irrationality about nuclear weapons which does not sit well with good intentions. A system of defence serves its purpose if it guarantees the security of those it protects. A system of nuclear defence guarantees only insecurity. The means of defence terrorise as much as the threat of attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "930650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=930650", "title": "National Association of Manufacturers", "text": "National Association of Manufacturers\n\nThe National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) is an advocacy group headquartered in Washington, D.C., United States, with additional offices across the country. It is the nation's largest manufacturing industrial trade association, representing 14,000 small and large manufacturing companies in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Jay Timmons has led the organization as President and CEO since 2011.\n\nA 2018 article by Business Insider described the NAM as \"a behemoth in the US capital, receiving unfettered access to the White House and top lawmakers on Capitol Hill.\" In 2018, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady commented that passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would not have happened without leadership from the National Association of Manufacturers.\n\nPresident Donald Trump addressed the NAM board in 2017.\n\nThe NAM's policy issue work is focused in the areas of labor, employment, health care, energy, corporate finance, tax, bilateral trade, multilateral trade, export controls, technology, regulatory and infrastructure policy. The organization emphasizes four pillars that make America great: free enterprise, competitiveness, individual liberty, and equal opportunity. \n\nThe NAM releases a Manufacturing Outlook Survey every quarter. As of the second quarter of 2018, according to the NAM, 95.1% of manufacturers registered a positive outlook for their company, “the highest level recorded in the survey’s 20-year history.” The same survey found that manufacturers rated “the inability to attract and retain a quality workforce” as their top concern. President Donald Trump mentioned the NAM’s survey in an event at the White House in April 2018. \n\nThe NAM’s Manufacturing Institute is a 501(c)3 dedicated to developing a modern manufacturing workforce to help manufacturers get skilled, qualified and productive workers to remain competitive. The Institute sponsors Manufacturing Day on the first Friday of October, a nation-wide event for manufacturers to host students, parents, and policy-leaders and “address common misperceptions about manufacturing.”\n\nIn 2017, the NAM launched the Manufacturers’ Accountability Project (MAP), a campaign run through the Manufacturers’ Center for Legal Action (MCLA) to combat frivolous, politically-motivated lawsuits against energy manufacturers. As of August 2018, three of those lawsuits have been dismissed from court.\n\nAccording to NAM, manufacturing employs nearly 12 million workers, contributes more than $2.25 trillion to the U.S. economy annually, is the largest driver of economic growth in the nation and accounts for the lion's share of private sector research and development.\n\nNAM supported the EPS Service Parts Act of 2014 (H.R. 5057; 113th Congress), a bill that would exempt certain external power supplies from complying with standards set forth in a final rule published by the United States Department of Energy in February 2014. The United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce describes the bill as a bill that \"provides regulatory relief by making a simple technical correction to the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act to exempt certain power supply (EPS) service and spare parts from federal efficiency standards.\"\n\nThe NAM's Board of Directors includes Chairman David Farr, CEO of Emerson Electric Company, President Jay Timmons, CEO of NAM; and Vice Chair of the Board David T. Seaton, Chairman and CEO, Fluor Corporation, among others.\n\nNAM was founded by Thomas P. Egan, late President of the Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce and head of the J.A. Fay and Egan Co., woodworking and machinery company, not long after reading an editorial in the magazine \"Dixie,\" out of Atlanta, Georgia, during the depression of 1894. This editorial urged the manufacturers of the time to organize and work together to improve business conditions nationally. Under Egan's leadership, organization began, and a group was created; they called themselves the \"Big 50\"; he invited them, and asked them to invite others, to Cincinnati. On Jan 25, 1895, in the Oddfellows Temple, where 583 manufacturers attended, NAM was created. \"The U.S. was in the midst of a deep recession and many of the nation's manufacturers saw a strong need to export their products in other countries. One of the NAM's earliest efforts was to call for the creation of the U.S. Department of Commerce\". The organization's first president was Thomas Dolan of Philadelphia (not, as erroneously listed in some sources, Samuel P. Bush).\n\nThe early history of NAM was marked by frank verbal attacks on labor. In 1903, then-president David MacLean Parry delivered a speech at its annual convention which argued that unions' goals would result in \"despotism, tyranny, and slavery.\" Parry advocated the establishment of a great national anti-union federation under the control of the NAM, and the NAM responded by initiating such an effort.\n\nIn an address at its 1911 convention, NAM president John Kirby, Jr. proclaimed, \"The American Federation of Labor is engaged in an open warfare against Jesus Christ and his cause.\" \n\nThe NAM also encouraged the creation and propagation of a network of local anti-union organizations, many of which took the name Citizens' Alliance. In October 1903 the local Citizens' Alliance groups were united by a national called the Citizens' Industrial Alliance of America.\n\nNAM, in the late 1930s, used one of the earliest versions of a modern multi-faceted public relations campaign to promote the benefits of capitalism and to combat the policies of President Roosevelt. NAM made efforts to undermine organized labor in the United States before the New Deal. \n\nNAM lobbied successfully for the 1947 Taft-Hartley Act to restrict unions' power.\n\nThe advent of commercial television led to the NAM's own 15-minute television program, “Industry on Parade”, which aired from 1950–1960.\n\n\n\nThe NAM has one affiliate. According to its website, the Manufacturing Institute is the 501(c) 3 affiliate of the National Association of Manufacturers. The Manufacturing Institute describes its priorities as the development of a world-class manufacturing workforce, the growth of individual U.S. manufacturing companies and the expansion of the manufacturing sector in regional economies. The Manufacturing Institute is the authority on the attraction, qualification, and development of world-class manufacturing talent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1467523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467523", "title": "Papal regalia and insignia", "text": "Papal regalia and insignia\n\nPapal regalia and insignia are the official items of attire and decoration proper to the Pope in his capacity as the head of the Roman Catholic Church and sovereign of the Vatican City State.\n\nThe regalia of the papacy include the triregnum, a headgear with three crowns or levels, also called the triple tiara or triple crown. \"Tiara\" is the name of the headdress, even in the forms it had before a third crown was added to it. For several centuries, Popes wore it during processions, as when entering or leaving Saint Peter's Basilica, but during liturgies they used an episcopal mitre instead. Paul VI used it on 30 June 1963 at his coronation, but abandoned its use later. None of his successors have used it. On his personal coat of arms, Pope Benedict XVI replaced the tiara with a mitre, but the tiara remains on the coat of arms of the Holy See and of Vatican City State.\n\nThe Ring of the Fisherman, another item of papal regalia, is a gold ring decorated with a depiction of St. Peter in a boat casting his net, with the name of the reigning Pope surrounding it. It was first mentioned in 1265 by Pope Clement IV, who wrote in a letter to his nephew that Popes were accustomed to sealing public documents with a leaden \"bulla\" attached and private letters with \"the seal of the Fisherman\". By the fifteenth century, the Fisherman's Ring was used to seal Papal briefs. The Fisherman's Ring is placed on the newly elected Pope's finger by the Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church; on the Pope's death, the Cardinal Chamberlain used to deface and smash the Fisherman's Ring with a hammer as a symbolic representation of the end of the late Pope's authority.\n\nModern popes bear the Papal ferula, a staff topped by a crucifix, rather than a crozier, a bent pastoral staff styled after a shepherd's crook. The use of the papal ferula is an ancient custom, established before the thirteenth century, though some popes since that time, notably Pope Leo XIII, have used a crozier-like staff.\n\nThe use of other items of papal regalia has been discontinued, though they have not been abolished. The \"Sedia gestatoria\", a portable throne or armchair carried by twelve footmen (\"palafrenieri\") in red uniforms was accompanied by two attendants bearing the \"flabella\", large ceremonial fans made of white ostrich-feathers. The \"sedia gestatoria\" was used for the Pope's solemn entrance into a church or hall and for his departure on the occasion of liturgical celebrations such as a papal Mass and for papal audiences. The use of the \"flabella\" was discontinued by Pope Paul VI, and that of the \"sedia gestatoria\" by Pope John Paul II.\n\nThe Pope wears the Pallium over his chasuble when celebrating Mass. The pallium is a circular band of fabric about two inches wide, from which two twelve-inch-long pendants hang down, one in the front and one in back. It is ornamented with six small, black crosses distributed about the shoulders, breast and back, and is fixed in place by three golden pins, symbolic of the nails with which Christ was crucified. Only the pope wears the pallium by right, and he may wear it at all ecclesiastical functions without restriction. In the Latin/Western rite of the church, metropolitans (that is, archbishops who are the senior bishops of an ecclesiastical province) also wear a form of the pallium within their own province, and which they must receive from the pope, either personally or in a ceremony at which another bishop delegated by the pope presides. Pope Benedict XVI, for his inauguration in 2005, introduced a special type of pallium that is worn only by the pope. The new papal pallium is based upon the earlier form of the pallium, similar to the omophorion which is still worn by Eastern Christian bishops. The papal pallium is wider and longer than the ordinary pallium, and has red crosses on it. On the Feast of Sts. Peter and Paul in 2014, Pope Francis returned to the use of the usual black pallium.\nA vestment which is restricted to the pope alone is the Fanon made out of alternating silver and gold stripes. The fanon is similar to a shawl, one end of which is passed under the stole and the second over the chasuble; the pallium is then placed over the fanon. The fanon has gone out of common use, but Popes John Paul II and Benedict XVI wore the fanon on a few occasions.\n\nPrior to the liturgical reforms of the Second Vatican Council, there were a number of other vestments which were worn only by the pope:\nWhen the pope would stand on his throne or at the \"sedia gestatoria\", both the falda and the mantum would flow down to the lower steps, and had the effect of making the pope look taller than the other dignitaries present. All three of these vestments were discontinued during the reign of Pope Paul VI.\n\nWhen not celebrating religious services, the Pope wears a cassock. Choir dress is worn when attending—but not celebrating—services, and formal occasions, such as audiences.\nThe most immediately noticeable feature is a white cassock and zucchetto (skull cap). Only the Pope is permitted to wear a cassock made out of watered silk. The cassock used to have a train on it, but Pope Pius XII discontinued this custom. For convenience, the train could be folded up and fastened to the back of the cassock. He used to wear a tufted fascia (white sash-like belt fastened about the waist, the ends of which fall down past the knees and are often embroidered with the Pope's coat of arms), until Paul VI replaced it with a simpler fringed sash. Previously, the tufted fascia (terminating in gold tassels) was worn with choir dress, and the fringed fascia (terminating in a simpler gold fringe) was worn with ordinary dress.\nOver his cassock the Pope will wear a lace rochet. Over the rochet is worn the red Papal mozzetta, a shoulder cape that has a collar and is buttoned all the way down the front. The red color is a vestige from the days when scarlet was the Papal color (white only became associated with the papacy after the Napoleonic wars). The Papal mozzetta had a small hood on the back, which disappeared after Vatican II but has recently been restored. In wintertime, the Papal mozzetta is of red velvet trimmed with ermine (this also fell out of use after Vatican II, but Pope Benedict XVI began again to wear a winter mozzetta trimmed in ermine fur). In summer, the Papal mozzetta is of red satin. The Pope wears a pectoral cross suspended on a gold cord over the mozzetta. He may also choose to wear a red stole with gold embroidery over the mozzetta, even when he is not officiating at a service.\n\nTraditionally during the Octave of Easter, the Pope wears the white paschal mozzetta, which is of white damask silk trimmed with white ermine. While the paschal mozzetta fell out of use during the pontificate of Pope John Paul II, it was returned to use in 2008 by Pope Benedict XVI.\nSince the 13th Century many Papal portraits have shown the pontiff wearing the camauro, a red velvet cap which covers the ears, and is trimmed with ermine. The camauro fell out of fashion with the death of Pope John XXIII, but has recently been revived by Pope Benedict XVI.\nTraditionally, he wears special red satin or velvet Papal slippers indoors, and red leather Papal shoes outdoors. The Papal shoes were traditionally red, though Pope John Paul II would sometimes wear black or brown leather shoes. Pope Benedict XVI restored the use of the traditional red Papal shoes, but Pope Francis has reverted to black shoes.\n\nThe pope's ordinary dress (also called house dress), which is worn for daily use outside of liturgical functions, consists of a white cassock with attached pellegrina and girded with a fringed white fascia (often with the papal coat of arms embroidered on it), a pectoral cross suspended from a gold cord, red papal shoes, and a white zucchetto. On more formal occasions, the pope may wear a red cape similar to the ferraiuolo except for its gold decoration. Alternatively, he may wear a red cape with a shoulder cape attached. Outdoors, the pope may wear the \"cappello romano\", a wide-brimmed hat used by all grades of clergy. While most other clergy wear a black \"cappello romano\", the pope's is usually red (although it may also be white).\n\nThe insignia of the papacy includes the image of two Crossed Keys, one gold and one silver, bound with a red cord. This represents the \"keys to the Kingdom of Heaven\" (Matthew ; \"cf.\" Isaiah ) and is in many ways the quintessential symbol of the Papacy as an institution and of its central role within the Catholic Church. Jesus's statement to Simon Peter, \"whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven\", is understood in Roman Catholic theology as establishing two jurisdictions, Heaven and Earth; the silver and gold keys are said to represent these two jurisdictions. The silver key symbolises the power to bind and loose on Earth, and the gold key the power to bind and loose in Heaven (another interpretation says that the silver key represents \"binding\" and the golden key represents \"loosing\").\n\nThe primary emblem of the Papacy is these two keys beneath a \"triregnum\" (Papal tiara). This symbol is used in several instances. The Pope's personal arms are surmounted by the aforementioned two keys in saltire behind the escutcheon (one key silver and one key gold, tied with a red cord), and above them the silver \"triregnum\" bearing three gold crowns and red \"infulae\" (the lappets which hang down from the back of the tiara and fall over the shoulders when it is worn). This tradition goes back to the 15th century, the symbolism of the keys of Peter was first used by Pope Nicholas V (elected 1447).\n\nThe latest two Popes (as of 2013; Benedict XVI and Pope Francis) have replaced the tiara with a simple mitre on which is depicted the three tiered cross of the papacy, reminiscent of the three tiers of the tiara. A listing of the coats of arms of the Popes can be found at: Papal coats of arms.\n\nThe yellow and white flag of Vatican City also makes use of this emblem on the right hand side in the white half of the flag. The yellow and white colours were first adopted in 1808 as the flag of the personal guard of Pius VII, when the other forces of what had been the Papal States were brought under Napoleon's control. The previous flag was red and gold, the traditional colours of the city of Rome. The 1808 flag was of course not that of Vatican City, which did not come into existence until 1929.\n\nThe coat of arms of the Holy See and that of Vatican City also use this papal emblem. The arms of the Holy See are blazoned: \"gules, two keys in saltire or and argent, interlacing in the rings or, beneath a tiara argent, crowned or.\" This means: on a red field are placed two keys, crossed as in the letter X, one gold, the other silver, bound by a gold cord placed through the rings, and, above the keys, a silver (white-coloured) tiara with gold (yellow-coloured) crowns. The arms of Vatican City are identical, except that the gold and silver keys are reversed and the cord is red (\"gules\") and interlaced at the intersection of the two keys, as illustrated in Appendix B of the Fundamental Law of Vatican City State, 7 June 1929.\n\nThe \"umbraculum\" (Latin form for \"little umbrella\") is a canopy or umbrella (consisting of alternating red and gold stripes, the traditional colours of the city of Rome and so, until 1808, of the papacy) whose original function was quite simply to provide shade. As it was traditionally a royal prerogative to walk beneath a canopy, Pope Alexander VI began using the \"umbraculum\" to symbolise the temporal powers of the Papacy; it was formerly carried by a man standing behind the Pope. It featured in the former arms of the Papal States. The practice of walking with the \"umbraculum\" has been discontinued, although it continues to feature in ecclesiastical heraldry and remains the insigne of a basilica, usually displayed to the right of the main altar. It is sometimes carried in processions as a sign of a basilica's dignity. It also currently features in the Coat of arms of the Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church: because the Camerlengo administers the property of the Holy See during a sede vacante, there isn't any papal insignia when there is not a Pope in office, and the umbraculum represents the powers of Holy See, which did not cease with Pope's death, since they are entrusted to the Church itself. (see figure below).\n\n"}
{"id": "310861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310861", "title": "Paul Jennings Hill", "text": "Paul Jennings Hill\n\nPaul Jennings Hill (February 6, 1954 – September 3, 2003) was a convicted American murderer. Hill murdered physician Dr. John Britton and Britton's bodyguard James Barrett in 1994, justifying his actions with his anti-abortion beliefs. Hill was sentenced to death by lethal injection and was executed on September 3, 2003.\n\nPaul Hill was born in Miami, Florida on February 6, 1954, to Oscar Jennings Hill, an airline pilot, and his wife Louise. He was raised in Coral Gables. He was charged with assault at the age of 17, by his father, when his father attempted to get treatment for Hill's drug problem.\nHill said he experienced a religious conversion two years later in 1973, after being sent to a military school. Hill later enrolled in Belhaven University where he met his future wife, Karen Demuth, with whom he would have three children.\n\nHill graduated from Reformed Theological Seminary, where he studied under Greg Bahnsen, a founder of the right-wing Christian Reconstructionist movement. He attended St. Paul Presbyterian Church, which espoused theonomy, a movement related to Reconstructionism. Following his ordination in 1984, Hill became a minister affiliated with both the Presbyterian Church in America and the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. He was excommunicated in 1993 following a number of nationally televised appearances in which he claimed to be the new national spokesperson for \"defensive action\" against abortion providers and claimed a connection to the Army of God.\n\nFollowing his excommunication, Hill supported his family with a franchised auto detailing business, cleaning and detailing automobiles. \n\nOn July 29, 1994, Hill approached the Ladies Center, an abortion clinic in Pensacola, Florida. When he spotted clinic doctor John Britton and his bodyguard, retired USAF Lieutenant Colonel James H. Barrett. outside the clinic, he fired on both of them at close range with a Mossberg Model 500A 12-gauge pump-action shotgun. Both Britton and Barrett died; Barrett's wife, June, was also wounded. Following the shots, Hill laid his shotgun on the ground and waited to be arrested.\n\nFollowing his arrest, Hill was brought to trial in the Circuit Court of Florida for the First Circuit, charged with two counts of first-degree premeditated murder, one count of attempted first-degree murder, and one count of shooting into an occupied vehicle. Hill moved, successfully, to be allowed to appear pro se. i.e., he represented himself. He pleaded not guilty on all counts. Hill's motion to use the affirmative defense of justification was denied. According to Hill, his actions were a defensive act, rather than a retribution. On December 6, 1994, Hill was found guilty of the charges and was sentenced to death. Appeals to the First District Court of Appeals, 656 So.2d 1271 (Fla. 1995), and subsequently to the Florida Supreme Court, 688 So.2d 901 (Fla.1996), were unsuccessful. Hill petitioned the Supreme Court of the United States for writ of certiorari (asked the Court to hear his appeal). The petition was denied. 522 U.S. 907 (1997).\n\nThe execution warrant for Hill was not signed until July 2003, at which time it was signed by Governor Jeb Bush. Hill died by lethal injection in Florida State Prison on September 3, 2003, aged 49. His last words were, \"If you believe abortion is a lethal force, you should oppose the force and do what you have to do to stop it. May God help you to protect the unborn as you would want to be protected.\"\n\nHill chose Rev. Donald Spitz as his spiritual adviser during the last week of his life. Hill was close friends with Spitz both before and after he killed Dr. John Britton and James H. Barrett. Spitz was with Hill during the last week of his life and with Hill when he was executed.\n\nPrior to the murders, Hill sent two position papers to Reconstructionist author Gary North, which set out Hill's views of abortion and why he considered murder of abortionists to be warranted. The papers were followed by three additional letters to North in October 1994. North's responses, issued after the murders, comprised two letters that were made available to the public. The letters rejected and refuted Hill's theological arguments, and concluded that, \"...the public will regard your dual assassination as the act of a condemned man outside of God's church and acting on his own in defiance of Bible-revealed law and therefore also God's moral law.\"\n\nHill spent almost a decade in prison awaiting his execution. In a statement made before his execution, Hill's views on the murders remained unchanged; he said that he felt no remorse for his actions, and that he expected \"a great reward in Heaven\". Hill left behind a manuscript manifesto which his backers promised him they would publish. Hill also encouraged others who believe abortion is an illegitimate use of lethal force to \"do what you have to do to stop it.\"\n\nWhile in police custody, Hill told the media \"Now is the time to defend the unborn as to defend a slave that's about to be murdered.\" Hill's purported ties to the Army of God movement as well as his life and crimes are explored in the feature length HBO Documentary film \"Soldiers in the Army of God\" (2000) directed by Marc Levin and Daphne Pinkerson as part of HBO's \"America Undercover\" Series.\n\n\"Lake of Fire\", a 2006 documentary by Tony Kaye on the abortion controversy in the United States, features footage of Hill protesting outside abortion clinics in Florida, and shows footage of Hill's arrest and trial. Hill also says to the film-maker that \"whatever force is justified in defending the life of a born child is also justified in defending the life of an unborn child.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "320616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320616", "title": "Peace of Augsburg", "text": "Peace of Augsburg\n\nThe Peace of Augsburg, also called the Augsburg Settlement, was a treaty between Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor (the predecessor of Ferdinand I) and the Schmalkaldic League, signed in September 1555 at the imperial city of Augsburg. It officially ended the religious struggle between the two groups and made the legal division of Christendom permanent within the Holy Roman Empire, allowing rulers to choose either Lutheranism or Roman Catholicism as the official confession of their state. Calvinism was not allowed until the Peace of Westphalia.\n\nThe Peace established the principle \"Cuius regio, eius religio\" (\"whose realm, his religion\"), which allowed the princes of states within the Holy Roman Empire to adopt either Lutheranism or Catholicism within the domains they controlled, ultimately reaffirming their sovereignty over those domains. Subjects, citizens, or residents who did not wish to conform to the prince's choice were given a grace period in which they were free to emigrate to different regions in which their desired religion had been accepted.\n\nArticle 24 stated: \"In case our subjects, whether belonging to the old religion or the Augsburg Confession, should intend leaving their homes with their wives and children in order to settle in another, they shall be hindered neither in the sale of their estates after due payment of the local taxes nor injured in their honour.\"\n\nCharles V had made an interim ruling, the Augsburg Interim of 1548, on the legitimacy of two religious creeds in the empire, and this was codified in law on 30 June 1548 upon the insistence of Charles V, who wanted to work out religious differences under the auspices of a general council of the Catholic Church. The Interim largely reflected principles of religious behavior in its 26 articles, although it allowed for marriage of the clergy, and the giving of both bread and wine to the laity. This led to resistance by the Protestant territories, who proclaimed their own Interim at Leipzig the following year.\n\nThe Interim was overthrown in 1552 by the revolt of the Protestant elector Maurice of Saxony and his allies. In the negotiations at Passau in the summer of 1552, even the Catholic princes had called for a lasting peace, fearing the religious controversy would never be settled. The emperor, however, was unwilling to recognize the religious division in Western Christendom as permanent. This document was foreshadowed by the Peace of Passau, which in 1552 gave Lutherans religious freedom after a victory by Protestant armies. Under the Passau document, Charles granted a peace only until the next imperial Diet, whose meeting was called in early 1555.\n\nThe treaty, negotiated on Charles' behalf by his brother Ferdinand, effectively gave Lutheranism official status within the domains of the Holy Roman Empire, according to the policy of \"cuius regio, eius religio\". Knights and towns who had practiced Lutheranism for some time were exempted under the \"Declaratio Ferdinandei\", but the \"Ecclesiastical reservation\" supposedly prevented the principle of \"cuius regio, eius religio\" from being applied if an ecclesiastical ruler converted to Lutheranism.\n\nThe Peace of Augsburg contained three main principles:\n\n\nThe third principle exempted knights and some of the cities under the jurisdiction of an ecclesiastical prince if they had practiced Lutheranism for some time (Lutheranism was the only branch of Protestantism recognized under the Peace). The provision was not publicized as part of the treaty, and was kept secret for almost two decades.\n\nThe document itself had critical problems. While it gave legal basis for the practice of the Lutheran confession, it did not accept any of the Reformed traditions, such as Calvinism, nor did it recognize Anabaptism. Although the Peace of Augsburg was moderately successful in relieving tension in the empire and increasing tolerance, it left important things undone. Neither the Anabaptists nor the Calvinists were protected under the peace, so many Protestant groups living under the rule of a Lutheran prince still found themselves in danger of the charge of heresy. (Article 17: \"However, all such as do not belong to the two above named religions shall not be included in the present peace but be totally excluded from it.\") These minorities did not achieve any legal recognition until the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.\nThe intolerance towards Calvinists caused them to take desperate measures that led to the Thirty Years' War. One of the more notable measures was the Second Defenestration of Prague (1618) in which two representatives of the fiercely Catholic Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II were thrown out of a castle window in Prague.\n\nThe principle of ecclesiastical reservation was tested in the Cologne War (1583-1588), which grew out of the scenario envisioned by Ferdinand when he wrote the proviso: the reigning Prince-Bishop converted to Protestantism; although he did not insist that the population convert, he placed \"Calvinism\" on a parity with Catholicism throughout the Electorate of Cologne. This in itself created a two-fold legal problem: first, Calvinism was considered a heresy; second, the Elector did not resign his see, which made him eligible, at least in theory, to cast a ballot for emperor. Finally, his marriage posed a very real potential to convert the Electorate into a dynastic principality, shifting the balance of religious power in the Empire.\n\nA side effect of the religious turmoil was Charles' decision to abdicate and divide Habsburg territory into two sections. His brother Ferdinand ruled the Austrian lands, and Charles' fervently Catholic son, Philip II, became administrator of Spain, the Spanish Netherlands, parts of Italy, and other overseas holdings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1846100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1846100", "title": "Providence Initiative for Psychogeographic Studies", "text": "Providence Initiative for Psychogeographic Studies\n\nProvidence Initiative for Psychogeographic Studies (PIPS), sometimes referred to as \"People Interested in Participatory Societies,\" is a small collective of artists in Providence, Rhode Island which promotes artistic and social investigations in psychogeography. PIPS grew out of a small group looking to investigate the urban environment in detail. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21776068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21776068", "title": "Public Land Law Review Commission", "text": "Public Land Law Review Commission\n\nThe Public Land Law Review Commission (PLLRC) was established on in order to review federal public land laws and regulations of the United States and to recommend a public land policy. The Commission met between 1965 and 1969.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23315969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23315969", "title": "Riding-like sitting", "text": "Riding-like sitting\n\nRiding-like sitting or balanced sitting includes a sitting posture that approaches the natural resting position. \nA forward sloping seat encourages this natural posture, which is the same as when lying on the side while sleeping. The lumbar curve is preserved, the joint angles are open, and muscles are well-balanced and relaxed. This position is exactly the same as when riding a horse: the rider sits upright and at the same time maintains a lumbar lordosis because of the downwards sloping thighs.\n\nRiding-like sitting or balanced seating is the most suitable position for long periods of sitting. Forward sloping seats and higher desks can eliminate lower back strain and even prevent chronic back pain. It also relieves pressure on the lungs and stomach and provides greater mobility. The advantages compared to conventional furniture in terms of pain, flexion and comfort are documented in several scientific studies starting with research by A C Mandal, MD, and recently reviewed, updated and discussed by T Mandal with several references to research and the revised European (CEN) standards for educational furniture that includes balanced seating options.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18519499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18519499", "title": "Serbian Party of Socialists (Croatia)", "text": "Serbian Party of Socialists (Croatia)\n\nThe Serbian Party of Socialists was the branch in Croatia of Serbian President Slobodan Milošević's Socialist Party of Serbia which was created in the areas under the control of rebel Serbs of Croatia (so-called Republic of Serbian Krajina). In 1993, Milan Martić ran for President of Serbian Krajina and received heavy financial support from the Milošević government. In a second round of voting in 1994 he was elected President and remained in power until the fall of Serbian Krajina during the Croatian Operation Storm in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "12067532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12067532", "title": "Stasi 2.0", "text": "Stasi 2.0\n\nThe phrase Stasi 2.0 is the catchphrase of a civil rights campaign in Germany.\n\nThe term originated in the blogosphere, combining the name of East Germany's former Ministry of State Security, commonly known as the \"Stasi\", with the concept of software versioning as used in the popular phrase \"Web 2.0\". The implication is that Stasi 2.0 is the modernized, updated and contemporary successor (or \"version\" in the software usage) of Stasi. The campaign focuses on the proposals of Wolfgang Schäuble, at that time Secretary of the Interior of Germany. Schäuble then proposed a preemptive security strategy, which critics contend bears similarities to the practices of the Stasi, but using current technology. His most disputed ideas involve his proposals for telecommunications data retention, his proposal to legalize military action of the Bundeswehr inside German borders, and his support for covert \"online searches\" of suspects' computer equipment. His latest proposal in particular has met stiff opposition from many prominent German netizens, as well as the Chaos Computer Club.\n\nThough Schäuble claims his proposals serve to protect a \"Right to Security\", no such right is recognized under the German constitution.\n\nThe phrase Stasi 2.0 has been used by protestors criticising Barack Obama by likening him to a Stasi figure in The Lives of Others during the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures about the involvement of the National Security Agency in monitoring German communications, including those of chancellor Angela Merkel.\n\nSome critics of the campaign dispute the contention that the presently proposed policies would or could lead to abuses similar to those perpetrated by the Stasi. They claim that the term is used out of proportion, and thus cheapens the historically known tangible suffering of Stasi victims. For this reason, several prominent civil rights groups have made it their official policy not to use the term, and disassociate with the campaign. Additionally, some critics claim that the ideologies targeted by Schäuble's initiatives might become more acceptable as part of the campaign, while legitimate state authority is vilified. They see any losses of privacy or freedom as acceptable collateral damage, or deny that there are or would be any such losses.\n\nOne Leipzig-based shirt printing service refused at first to print the trademark image of the campaign, claiming the campaign to be libelous, but later did print it.\n\nIn August 2013, German Chancellor Angela Merkel rejected the comparison between the National Security Administration and the Stasi, suggesting that the comparison trivialises what state security did to people in East Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "48463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48463", "title": "Sucralose", "text": "Sucralose\n\nSucralose is an artificial sweetener and sugar substitute. The majority of ingested sucralose is not broken down by the body, so it is noncaloric. In the European Union, it is also known under the E number E955. It is produced by chlorination of sucrose. Sucralose is about 320 to 1,000 times sweeter than sucrose, three times as sweet as both aspartame and acesulfame potassium, and twice as sweet as sodium saccharin. Evidence of benefit is lacking for long-term weight loss with some data supporting weight gain and heart disease risks.\n\nIt is stable under heat and over a broad range of pH conditions. Therefore, it can be used in baking or in products that require a long shelf life. The commercial success of sucralose-based products stems from its favorable comparison to other low-calorie sweeteners in terms of taste, stability, and safety. Common brand names of sucralose-based sweeteners are Splenda, Zerocal, Sukrana, SucraPlus, Candys, Cukren, and Nevella. Canderel Yellow also contains sucralose, but the original Canderel and Green Canderel do not.\n\nSucralose is used in many food and beverage products because it is a no-calorie sweetener, does not promote dental cavities, is safe for consumption by diabetics and nondiabetics, and does not affect insulin levels, although the powdered form of sucralose-based sweetener product Splenda (as most other powdered sucralose products) contains 95% (by volume) bulking agents dextrose and maltodextrin that do affect insulin levels. Sucralose is used as a replacement for, or in combination with, other artificial or natural sweeteners such as aspartame, acesulfame potassium or high-fructose corn syrup. Sucralose is used in products such as candy, breakfast bars and soft drinks. It is also used in canned fruits wherein water and sucralose take the place of much higher calorie corn syrup-based additives. Sucralose mixed with maltodextrin or dextrose (both made from corn) as bulking agents is sold internationally by McNeil Nutritionals under the Splenda brand name. In the United States and Canada, this blend is increasingly found in restaurants, in yellow packets, in contrast to the blue packets commonly used by aspartame and the pink packets used by those containing saccharin sweeteners; in Canada, though, yellow packets are also associated with the SugarTwin brand of cyclamate sweetener.\n\nSucralose is a highly heat-stable noncaloric sweetener, allowing it to be used in many recipes with little or no sugar. It is available in a granulated form that allows for same-volume substitution with sugar. This mix of granulated sucralose includes fillers, all of which rapidly dissolve in liquids. While the granulated sucralose provides apparent volume-for-volume sweetness, the texture in baked products may be noticeably different. Sucralose is not hygroscopic, which can lead to baked goods that are noticeably drier and manifest a less dense texture than those made with sucrose. Unlike sucrose, which melts when baked at high temperatures, sucralose maintains its granular structure when subjected to dry, high heat (e.g., in a 350 °F or 180 °C oven). Furthermore, in its pure state, sucralose begins to decompose at 119 °C or 246 °F. Thus, in some recipes, such as \"crème brûlée\", which require sugar sprinkled on top to partially or fully melt and crystallize, substituting sucralose will not result in the same surface texture, crispness, or crystalline structure.\n\nSucralose has been accepted as safe by several national and international food safety regulatory bodies, including the FDA, The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee Report on Food Additives, the European Union's Scientific Committee on Food, Health Protection Branch of Health and Welfare Canada, and Food Standards Australia New Zealand. According to the Canadian Diabetes Association, the amount of sucralose that can be consumed over a person's lifetime without any adverse effects is 9 mg per kg of body weight per day.\n\n\"In determining the safety of sucralose, the FDA reviewed data from more than 110 studies in humans and animals. Many of the studies were designed to identify possible toxic effects, including carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological effects. No such effects were found, and FDA's approval is based on the finding that sucralose is safe for human consumption.\" For example, McNeil Nutritional LLC studies submitted as part of its U.S. FDA Food Additive Petition 7A3987 indicated that \"in the 2-year rodent bioassays ... there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity for either sucralose or its hydrolysis products ...\"\n\nResults from studies in the FDA approval process indicated a lack of risk associated with eating sucralose. When the estimated daily intake (EDI) is compared to the intake at which adverse effects are seen (known as the \"highest no-effects limit\", or HNEL at 1500 mg/kg BW/day, a large margin of safety exists. The bulk of sucralose ingested is not absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract (gut) and is directly excreted in the feces, while 11–27% of it is absorbed. The amount absorbed from the gut is largely removed from the blood stream by the kidneys and eliminated in the urine, with 20–30% of the absorbed sucralose being metabolized. This means that only between 2–8% of sucralose consumed is metabolized, on average.\n\nAnimal studies suggest that there may be a link between sucralose and a reduction in beneficial gut bacteria, with concerns this could result in digestive issues.\n\nThe Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group for food products, downgraded sucralose from \"Safe\" to \"Caution\" in June 2013, citing an unpublished study linking sucralose consumption with leukemia risk in rats. The study has been criticized as being poorly executed and reported. The study was published on 29 January 2016 in the peer-reviewed \"International Journal of Occupational and Environmental Health,\" and the Center for Science in the Public Interest downgraded sucralose from \"Caution\" to \"Avoid\" According to a 2004 study, sucralose has not shown any DNA-damaging properties in DNA repair assays at normal consumption levels, and no evidence of carcinogenicity.\n\nSucralose was discovered in 1976 by scientists from Tate & Lyle, working with researchers Leslie Hough and Shashikant Phadnis at Queen Elizabeth College (now part of King's College London). While researching ways to use sucrose and its synthetic derivatives for industrial use, Phadnis was told to \"test\" a chlorinated sugar compound. Phadnis thought Hough asked him to \"taste\" it, so he did. He found the compound to be exceptionally sweet.\n\nTate & Lyle patented the substance in 1976; as of 2008, the only remaining patents concern specific manufacturing processes.\n\nA Duke University animal study funded by the Sugar Association found evidence that doses of Splenda (containing ~1% sucralose and ~99% maltodextrin by weight) between 100 and 1000 mg/kg BW/day, containing sucralose at 1.1 to 11 mg/kg BW/day, fed to rats reduced fecal microflora, increased the pH level in the intestines, contributed to increases in body weight, and increased levels of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). These effects have not been reported in humans. An expert panel, including scientists from Duke University, Rutgers University, New York Medical College, Harvard School of Public Health, and Columbia University reported in \"Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology\" that the Duke study was \"not scientifically rigorous and is deficient in several critical areas that preclude reliable interpretation of the study results\".\n\nSucralose was first approved for use in Canada in 1991. Subsequent approvals came in Australia in 1993, in New Zealand in 1996, in the United States in 1998, and in the European Union in 2004. By 2008, it had been approved in over 80 countries, including Mexico, Brazil, China, India, and Japan. In 2006, the US Food and Drug Administration amended the regulations for foods to include sucralose as a \"non-nutritive sweetener\" in food. In May 2008, Fusion Nutraceuticals launched a generic product to the market, using Tate & Lyle patents.\n\nIn April 2015 PepsiCo announced that it would be moving from aspartame to sucralose for most of its diet drinks in the US, due to sales of Diet Pepsi falling by more than 5% in the US. PepsiCo says its decision is a commercial one - responding to consumer preferences.\n\nIn February 2018 PepsiCo went back to using aspartame in Diet Pepsi because of an 8% drop in sales for the previous year.\n\nSucralose is manufactured by the selective chlorination of sucrose in a multistep synthesis, which substitutes three of the hydroxyl groups of sucrose with chlorine atoms. This chlorination is achieved by selective protection of a primary alcohol group, followed by chlorination of the partially acetylated sugar with excess chlorinating agent, and then by removal of the acetyl groups to give the desired sucralose product. \n\nPure sucralose is sold in bulk, but not in quantities suitable for individual use, although some highly concentrated sucralose–water blends are available online. These concentrates contain one part sucralose for each two parts water. A quarter teaspoon of concentrate substitutes for one cup of sugar. Pure, dry sucralose undergoes some decomposition at elevated temperatures. In solution or blended with maltodextrin, it is slightly more stable. Most products containing sucralose add fillers and additional sweetener to bring the product to the approximate volume and texture of an equivalent amount of sugar.\n\nThough sucralose contains no calories, products that contain fillers, such as maltodextrin and/or dextrose, add about 2–4 calories per teaspoon or individual packet, depending on the product, the fillers used, brand, and the intended use of the product. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) allows for any product containing fewer than five calories per serving to be labeled as \"zero calories\".\n\nOne study suggests that artificial sweeteners may not fully activate the brain's \"food reward pathways\" as sugar does, stating that, because sweetener does not provide full satisfaction, the user may search for, and then eat additional high-calorie foods leading to weight gain.\n\nAccording to one study, sucralose is digestible by a number of microorganisms and is broken down once released into the environment. However, measurements by the Swedish Environmental Research Institute have shown sewage treatment has little effect on sucralose, which is present in wastewater effluents at levels of several μg/l (ppb). No ecotoxicological effects are known at such levels, but the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency warns a continuous increase in levels may occur if the compound is only slowly degraded in nature. When heated to very high temperatures (over 350 °C or 662 °F) in metal containers, sucralose can produce in the resulting smoke polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and other persistent organic pollutants.\n\nSucralose has been detected in natural waters. Studies indicate that this has virtually no impact on the early life development of certain animal species, but the impact on other species remains unknown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46875774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46875774", "title": "Taking a Stand", "text": "Taking a Stand\n\nTaking a Stand: Moving Beyond Partisan Politics to Unite America is a book by United States Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. The book was released on May 26, 2015 by Center Street, a main publishing division of Hachette Book Group USA. It happened to coincide with Paul's filibuster in the United States Senate of the PATRIOT Act provisions which were expected to expire at midnight on June 1, 2015.\n\nPaul had previously engaged in a filibuster of the nomination off John O. Brennan as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in 2013, which led to his campaign team coining the phrase \"Stand With Rand.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1792505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792505", "title": "Two-level game theory", "text": "Two-level game theory\n\nTwo-level game theory is a political model of international conflict resolution between states derived from game theory and originally introduced in 1988 by Robert Putnam.\n\nPutnam had been involved in research around the G7 summits between 1976 and 1979. However at the fourth summit, held in Bonn in 1978, he observed a qualitative shift in how the negotiations worked.\n\nThe model views international negotiations between states as consisting of simultaneous negotiations at both the intranational level (i.e. domestic) and the international level (i.e. between governments). Over domestic negotiations, the chief negotiator absorbs the concern of societal actors and builds coalitions with them; at the international level, the chief negotiator seeks an agreement that is amongst the possible \"wins\" in his state's \"win-set\". Win-sets are the possible outcomes that are likely to be accepted by the domestic interest groups who either must ratify the agreement or provide some other form of government backing. International agreements occur when there is an overlap between the win-sets of the states involved in the international negotiations.\n"}
{"id": "51797552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51797552", "title": "United Nations Peace Medal", "text": "United Nations Peace Medal\n\nThe United Nations Peace Medal is a commemorative medal produced by the United Nations to promote peace. First made by Franklin Mint in 1971, a new design is produced annually, with limited editions offered for sale in gold, silver, and bronze. Gold medals may be formally presented by UN officials as a diplomatic gift to heads of state, former UN Secretaries-General, and dignitaries visiting the UN Headquarters.\n"}
{"id": "10017908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10017908", "title": "Venture philanthropy", "text": "Venture philanthropy\n\nVenture philanthropy is a type of impact investment that takes concepts and techniques from venture capital finance and business management and applies them to achieving philanthropic goals. The term was first used in 1969 by John D. Rockefeller III to describe an imaginative and risk-taking approach to philanthropy that may be undertaken by charitable organizations.\n\nThe Centre for Effective Altruism spun off a venture philanthropy project in 2014, called Effective Altruism Ventures. Other examples of this type of venture philanthropy are New Profit Inc. in Boston, the Robin Hood Foundation in New York City, Tipping Point Community in the San Francisco Bay Area, The Research Acceleration and Innovation Network (TRAIN) initiative from FasterCures, the Asian Venture Philanthropy Network (AVPN), and the European Venture Philanthropy Association (EVPA).\n\nIn the late 1990s the Bethesda-based Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, wanting to take more direct action toward finding treatments for cystic fibrosis beyond its traditional approach of funding basic research at universities, invested in a small California biotechnology firm to help fund the discovery and development of the drug that twenty years later was approved as Kalydeco. Unlike other drugs that were available that just address symptoms of CF, the drug candidate was intended to address the underlying cause of CF. The company in which CFF invested was Aurora Biosciences; CFF provided $30 million for Aurora to identify and develop up to three drug candidates. The unusual nature of the arrangement was widely noted.\n\nIn 2001, Aurora was acquired by Vertex Pharmaceuticals, but CFF continued to fund development of the CF drug candidates. That funding eventually grew to $150 million, much of which was raised for the CFF by Joe O’Donnell, a Boston businessman whose son died of CF.\n\nWhen Vertex started selling Kalydeco, it priced it at about $300,000 a year and promised to provide it free to anyone in the US who was uninsured or whose insurance wouldn't cover it. It justified the price—one of the highest in the world for any drug—by explaining that on the one hand, that it can only treat about 4% of CF patients, or about 3,000 people worldwide; as it was only approved for adults and children six and older, there are only about 2,400 people eligible to receive it; with that few people, it needed a high price in order to pay for the research to create it as well as its other programs, which include a drug candidate that could treat many more people with CF. It also pointed out the strong efficacy of the drug, and laid out the costs of managing CF that would be saved for people that the drug could treat; those costs include repeated hospitalizations and lung transplants.\n\nNonetheless the high price led to sharp criticism of Vertex and the CFF. Twenty-nine physicians and scientists working with people with cystic fibrosis (CF) wrote to the CEO of Vertex Pharmaceuticals to plead for lower prices.\n\nCFF made the investment in exchange for a promise of royalties paid on sales of any drug it funded that made it to market; in 2014 it sold the future royalty stream to Royalty Pharma, a royalty fund investment company, for $3.3 billion, and said that it would use the funds to invest yet more in research and clinical trials for cystic fibrosis treatments.\n\nIn the course of working out the deal with Aurora in 2000, CFF included a clause in the agreement that allowed them to take control of the intellectual property if Aurora stopped developing any drug that had been discovered. CFF struck a similar agreement with the company, Altus Pharmaceuticals, to fund development of a recombinant enzyme that could treat pancreatic disease in people with cystic fibrosis. When Altus reported to CFF that it didn't have funds to continue developing the drug, CFF seized control of the asset and eventually licensed it to Alnara Pharmaceuticals, which developed the drug further and was acquired by Eli Lilly in 2010.\n\nUW-Madison Professor Emeritus Kenneth Zeichner wrote a paper criticizing the role of the New Schools Venture Fund in bringing deregulation and market-based practices into schools in the US. Lois Weiner writing in \"Jacobin\" criticized teachers' unions for taking money from the Gates Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16711575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711575", "title": "Water Resources Development Act of 1996", "text": "Water Resources Development Act of 1996\n\nThe Water Resources Development Act of 1996 (WRDA 1996) is part of , was enacted by Congress of the United States on October 12, 1996. Most of the provisions of WRDA 1996 are administered by the United States Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nAuthorizes specified water resources development and conservation projects for navigation, flood control, flood and storm damage reduction, environmental preservation and restoration, shoreline erosion protection, hydropower, and hurricane damage reduction in California, the District of Columbia and Maryland, Florida, Georgia and South Carolina, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Puerto Rico, South Dakota, Texas, and West Virginia. Specifies total costs, estimated Federal and non-Federal costs, and funding sources and requirements. \n\nAuthorizes specified projects for navigation, bluff stabilization, flood control and water supply, storm damage reduction and shoreline protection, streambank erosion protection, hurricane damage prevention, and navigation and safety improvements in Alaska, California, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Louisiana, Maryland and Delaware, and New Jersey in accordance with a final report of the Chief of Engineers. \n\nDirects study and carrying out of specified projects regarding \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 to\n\nIncreases from 25 to 35 percent the non-Federal share for nonstructural and other flood control projects. Sets forth criteria and procedures relating to the ability of a non-Federal interest to pay for flood control or agricultural water supply. \n\nRequires non-Federal stakeholders to: (1) agree to participate in and comply with applicable Federal floodplain management and flood insurance programs; and (2) prepare a flood plain management plan designed to reduce the impacts of future flood events in the project area. Directs the Secretary to: (1) develop guidelines for the preparation of such plans; and (2) conduct, and report to the Congress on, a review of policies, procedures, and techniques relating to the evaluation and development of flood control measures in order to identify impediments to justifying nonstructural flood control measures as alternatives to structural measures. \n\nRequires determination if the operation of a project has contributed to the degradation of the environment; and (2) undertake appropriate environmental restoration and enhancement measures. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1990 to add environmental remediation in the removal of dredged material under a navigation project; and (2) increase funding for the removal of contaminated sediments from navigable waters. Lists specified projects to be given priority in such sediment removal. \n\nAuthorizes an aquatic ecosystem restoration and protection project if the project will improve environmental quality, is in the public interest, and is cost-effective. Provides cost limitations and funding for such projects. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 to select a disposal method that is not the least-cost option if the incremental costs are reasonable in relation to the environmental benefits. \n\nDirects increased emphasis on, and opportunities for recreation at, projects operated, constructed, or maintained by the Corps of Engineers. \n\nSets forth provisions regarding construction of flood control projects by non-Federal interests, including reimbursement and credit of the non-Federal interest under specified circumstances. Directs agreements with non-Federal interests for the development of specified flood control projects in California and Texas. \n\nAuthorizes surveys, plans, and studies and to prepare reports that may lead to work in encouraging innovative and environmentally sound engineering and environmental solutions to civil works problems of national significance. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1988 to require the Secretary to provide appropriate protections for a specified period against the dissemination of information developed as the result of a research or development activity conducted by the Corps that is likely to be subject to a cooperative research and development (R&D) agreement within two years after its development and which would be considered a trade secret or privileged or confidential information if obtained from a non-Federal party participating in a cooperative R&D agreement. \n\nAmends existing law to set forth the National Dam Safety Program Act. Requires Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the National Dam Safety Review Board (established under this Act) to establish and maintain a coordinated national dam safety program. Requires the FEMA to implement a dam safety improvements implementation plan, provide assistance to States for dam safety programs, and provide training for dam safety. Authorizes a National Dam Safety Review Board. Authorizes appropriations to FEMA for the programs, training, and research authorized under this section. \n\nAuthorizes actions to increase the efficiency of energy production or the capacity of hydroelectric power generating facilities. \n\nAuthorizes additional capacity at a dredged material disposal facility as long as the non-Federal interest agrees to pay all costs associated with the construction of the additional capacity. \n\nIncreases authorized penalties for the obstruction of navigable waters of the United States. \n\nIncreases the small project authorization under the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1946. \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1970 to prohibit the inclusion of certain uneconomical cost-sharing requirements in flood control agreements. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 to increase the authorized assistance to States for project planning. \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1969 to increase from US$3 to $5 million the per project reimbursement limitation for flood control projects. \n\nAmends the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1958 to include the control and eradication of the melaleuca tree within a program for the control of aquatic plant growth. \n\nIncludes the development of one or more sediment decontamination technologies as a project purpose under the Water Resources Development Act of 1992. \n\nAdds to the purposes of Federal shore protection provisions the protection, restoration, and enhancement of sandy beaches on a comprehensive and coordinated basis by the Federal Government, States, localities, and private enterprises. Authorizes the Secretary to establish and conduct a national shoreline erosion control development and demonstration program for six years after the availability of funds for such program. \n\nDirects considering as commercial navigation benefits the economic benefits generated by cruise ships. Directs measures to preserve and enhance scenic and aesthetic qualities in the vicinity of such projects. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1990 to terminate a technical advisory committee for reservoir monitoring.\n\nProvides for modifications to specified flood control, navigation, beach erosion control, hurricane damage prevention, and streambank restoration projects in Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas and Missouri, California, Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, New York and New Jersey, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon and Washington, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. \n\nReauthorizes specified projects for flood control, navigation, wetlands research, and hurricane-flood protection and beach erosion control in Arkansas, Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, and New Jersey. \n\nDeauthorizes a portion or all of specified navigation projects in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Rhode Island, and Wisconsin. \n\nDirects a credit to Louisiana toward its non-Federal share of the cost of the Mississippi River Delta Region project.\n\nRequires \n\nDirects feasibility studies with respect to projects in Arkansasm California, Indiana, Michigan New York, Oregon, and Texas. \n\nDirects specified studies of \n\nRequires certain environmental studies with respect to land use in California, Indiana, and South Carolina. \n\nDirects specified reconnaissance studies for in Florida water reuse, channel improvements near in Nevada, and secondary channels of rivers in New York. \n\nAuthorizes navigation studies in the Pacific region of American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands. \n\nDirects the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Interior to evaluate procedures and requirements used in the selection and approval of materials used in the restoration and nourishment of beaches.\n\nProvides for Federal land conveyances in Alabama, California, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, and Washington. Redefines the Federal lands to be included as Columbia River Treaty fishing access sites for specified Native American Indian tribes. \n\nDesignates specified visitors centers, lakes, and locks and dams in California, Kentucky, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Pennsylvania. \n\nAuthorizes technical, planning, and design assistance to non-Federal interests for carrying out watershed management, restoration and development, greenway, and environmental assistance projects at specified locations in Arizona, California, Georgia, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Indiana, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and West Virginia. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1990 to authorize specified assistance to nongovernmental entities in the development and implementation of remedial action plans. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 to \n\nDirects \n\nRequires under specified conditions, \n\nDirects an assessment of the general condition of confined disposal facilities on the Great Lakes. \n\nExtends the geographic jurisdiction of the Mississippi River Commission. \n\nDirects promoting Federal, non-Federal, and private sector cooperation in creating public recreation opportunities and supporting infrastructure at Corps of Engineers' projects. \n\nAuthorizes specified assistance to non-Federal interests for wastewater treatment and related facilities in Alabama. \n\nDirects an agreement with Heber Springs, Arkansas, to provide specified water supply storage in Greers Ferry Lake in Arkansas. \n\nAuthorizes technical assistance to non-Federal interests for reclamation and water quality projects in California. \n\nDirects design and construction of shoreline protection measures for the coastline adjacent to the Faulkner Island Lighthouse, Connecticut. \n\nDirects a comprehensive plan for restoring, preserving, and protecting the South Florida ecosystem. Establishes the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration Task Force. \n\nAuthorizes a program to provide environmental assistance to non-Federal interests in southern and eastern Kentucky. \n\nAmends the Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection, and Restoration Act to provide the 1996 and 1997 Federal share of the cost of certain coastal wetlands restoration projects in Louisiana. \n\nDirects engineering, design, and construction of projects for flood control and improvements in specified areas of Louisiana and Montana. \n\nDirects \n\nAuthorizes assistance for the restoration of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal and for reclamation and water quality protection projects in Maryland, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, and West Virginia. \n\nDirects \n\nProhibits certain counties located at the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers from having their participation in the national flood insurance program revoked or suspended due to raising levees along an alignment approved by the relevant circuit court. \n\nAuthorizes capital improvements to the New York State Canal System. \n\nDirects a study for shoreline protection in New York. \n\nAuthorizes specified projects for dredged material containment facilities in New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Tennessee. \n\nDeclares a specified portion of Long Island City in New York, as nonnavigable waters of the United States, requiring improvements to such area. \n\nDirects revisions to the water control manuals for the Jamestown Dam and Pipestem Dam in North Dakota. \n\nAuthorizes specified projects for flood control in Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia, Montana, and Washington. \n\nAmends the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 to add permit requirements with respect to site designations for the dumping of dredged, chemical, radioactive, and other materials. \n\nAmends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to extend through FY 2001 the authorization of appropriations for the Office of the Management Conference of the Long Island Sound Study.\n\nAmends the Internal Revenue Code to extend expenditure authority under the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "684928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684928", "title": "Water supply", "text": "Water supply\n\nWater supply is the provision of water by public utilities, commercial organisations, community endeavors or by individuals, usually via a system of pumps and pipes. Irrigation is covered separately.\n\nIn 2010, about 87% of the global population (5.9 billion people) had access to piped water supply through house connections or to an improved water source through other means than house, including standpipes, water kiosks, spring supplies and protected wells. However, about 13% (about 900 million people) did not have access to an improved water source and had to use unprotected wells or springs, canals, lakes or rivers for their water needs.\n\nA clean water supply - in particular water that is not polluted with fecal matter from lack of sanitation - is the single most important determinant of public health. Destruction of water supply and/or sanitation infrastructure after major catastrophes (earthquakes, floods, war, etc.) poses the immediate threat of severe epidemics of waterborne diseases, several of which can be life-threatening.\n\nWater supply systems get water from a variety of locations after appropriate treatment, including groundwater (aquifers), surface water (lakes and rivers), and the sea through desalination. The water treatment steps include, in most cases, purification, disinfection through chlorination and sometimes fluoridation. Treated water then either flows by gravity or is pumped to reservoirs, which can be elevated such as water towers or on the ground (for indicators related to the efficiency of drinking water distribution see non-revenue water). Once water is used, wastewater is typically discharged in a sewer system and treated in a sewage treatment plant before being discharged into a river, lake or the sea or reused for landscaping, irrigation or industrial use (see also sanitation).\n\nIn the United States, the typical single family home uses about of water per day (2016 estimate) or per capita per day. This includes several common residential end use purposes (in decreasing order) like toilet use, showers, tap (faucet) use, washing machine use, leaks, other (unidentified), baths, and dishwasher use.\n\nWater supply service quality has many dimensions: continuity; water quality; pressure; and the degree of responsiveness of service providers to customer complaints. Many people in developing countries receive a poor or very poor quality of service. \n\nContinuity of water supply is taken for granted in most developed countries, but is a severe problem in many developing countries, where sometimes water is only provided for a few hours every day or a few days a week. It is estimated that about half of the population of developing countries receives water on an intermittent basis.\n\nDrinking water quality has a micro-biological and a physico-chemical dimension. There are thousands of parameters of water quality. In public water supply systems water should, at a minimum, be disinfected—most commonly through the use of chlorination or the use of ultra violet light—or it may need to undergo treatment, especially in the case of surface water. For more details, please see the separate entries on water quality, water treatment and drinking water.\n\nWater pressures vary in different locations of a distribution system. Water mains below the street may operate at higher pressures, with a pressure reducer located at each point where the water enters a building or a house. In poorly managed systems, water pressure can be so low as to result only in a trickle of water or so high that it leads to damage to plumbing fixtures and waste of water. Pressure in an urban water system is typically maintained either by a pressurised water tank serving an urban area, by pumping the water up into a water tower and relying on gravity to maintain a constant pressure in the system or solely by pumps at the water treatment plant and repeater pumping stations.\n\nTypical UK pressures are 4–5 bar (60-70 PSI) for an urban supply. However, some people can get over eight bars or below one bar. A single iron main pipe may cross a deep valley, it will have the same nominal pressure, however each consumer will get a bit more or less because of the hydrostatic pressure (about 1 bar/10 m height). So people at the bottom of a hill will get about 3 bars more than those at the top.\n\nThe effective pressure also varies because of the pressure loss due to supply resistance even for the same static pressure. An urban consumer may have 5 metres of 15 mm pipe running from the iron main, so the kitchen tap flow will be fairly unrestricted, so high flow. A rural consumer may have a kilometre of rusted and limed 22 mm iron pipe, so their kitchen tap flow will be small.\n\nFor this reason, the UK domestic water system has traditionally (prior to 1989) employed a \"cistern feed\" system, where the incoming supply is connected to the kitchen sink and also a header/storage tank in the attic. Water can dribble into this tank through a 12 mm pipe, plus ball valve, and then supply the house on 22 or 28 mm pipes. Gravity water has a small pressure (say ¼ bar in the bathroom) so needs wide pipes to allow for higher flows. This is fine for baths and toilets but is frequently inadequate for showers. A booster pump or a hydrophore is installed to increase and maintain pressure. For this reason urban houses are increasingly using mains pressure boilers (combies) which take a long time to fill a bath but suit the high back pressure of a shower.\n\nA great variety of institutions have responsibilities in water supply. A basic distinction is between institutions responsible for policy and regulation on the one hand; and institutions in charge of providing services on the other hand.\n\nWater supply policies and regulation are usually defined by one or several Ministries, in consultation with the legislative branch. In the United States the United States Environmental Protection Agency, whose administrator reports directly to the President, is responsible for water and sanitation policy and standard setting within the executive branch. In other countries responsibility for sector policy is entrusted to a Ministry of Environment (such as in Mexico and Colombia), to a Ministry of Health (such as in Panama, Honduras and Uruguay), a Ministry of Public Works (such as in Ecuador and Haiti), a Ministry of Economy (such as in German states) or a Ministry of Energy (such as in Iran). A few countries, such as Jordan and Bolivia, even have a Ministry of Water. Often several Ministries share responsibilities for water supply. In the European Union, important policy functions have been entrusted to the supranational level. Policy and regulatory functions include the setting of tariff rules and the approval of tariff increases; setting, monitoring and enforcing norms for quality of service and environmental protection; benchmarking the performance of service providers; and reforms in the structure of institutions responsible for service provision. The distinction between policy functions and regulatory functions is not always clear-cut. In some countries they are both entrusted to Ministries, but in others regulatory functions are entrusted to agencies that are separate from Ministries.\n\nDozens of countries around the world have established regulatory agencies for infrastructure services, including often water supply and sanitation, in order to better protect consumers and to improve efficiency. Regulatory agencies can be entrusted with a variety of responsibilities, including in particular the approval of tariff increases and the management of sector information systems, including benchmarking systems. Sometimes they also have a mandate to settle complaints by consumers that have not been dealt with satisfactorily by service providers. These specialized entities are expected to be more competent and objective in regulating service providers than departments of government Ministries. Regulatory agencies are supposed to be autonomous from the executive branch of government, but in many countries have often not been able to exercise a great degree of autonomy. In the United States regulatory agencies for utilities have existed for almost a century at the level of states, and in Canada at the level of provinces. In both countries they cover several infrastructure sectors. In many U.S. states they are called Public Utility Commissions. For England and Wales, a regulatory agency for water (OFWAT) was created as part of the privatization of the water industry in 1989. In many developing countries, water regulatory agencies were created during the 1990s in parallel with efforts at increasing private sector participation. (for more details on regulatory agencies in Latin America, for example, please see Water and sanitation in Latin America and the regional association of water regulatory agencies ADERASA )\n\nMany countries do not have regulatory agencies for water. In these countries service providers are regulated directly by local government, or the national government. This is, for example, the case in the countries of continental Europe, in China and India.\n\nFor more information on utility regulation in the water sector, see the Body of Knowledge on Infrastructure Regulation and the World Bank's knowledge base on the same topic at .\n\nWater supply service providers, which are often utilities, differ from each other in terms of their geographical coverage relative to administrative boundaries; their sectoral coverage; their ownership structure; and their governance arrangements.\n\nMany water utilities provide services in a single city, town or municipality. However, in many countries municipalities have associated in regional or inter-municipal or multi-jurisdictional utilities to benefit from economies of scale. In the United States these can take the form of special-purpose districts which may have independent taxing authority. An example of a multi-jurisdictional water utility in the United States is WASA, a utility serving Washington, DC and various localities in the state of Maryland. Multi-jurisdictional utilities are also common in Germany, where they are known as \"Zweckverbaende\", in France and in Italy.\n\nIn some federal countries, there are water service providers covering most or all cities and towns in an entire state, such as in all states of Brazil and some states in Mexico (see Water supply and sanitation in Mexico). In England and Wales, water supply and sewerage is supplied almost entirely through ten regional companies. Some smaller countries, especially developed countries, have established service providers that cover the entire country or at least most of its cities and major towns. Such national service providers are especially prevalent in West Africa and Central America, but also exist, for example, in Tunisia, Jordan and Uruguay (see also water supply and sanitation in Uruguay). In rural areas, where about half the world population lives, water services are often not provided by utilities, but by community-based organizations which usually cover one or sometimes several villages.\n\nSome water utilities provide only water supply services, while sewerage is under the responsibility of a different entity. This is for example the case in Tunisia. However, in most cases water utilities also provide sewer and sewage treatment services. In some cities or countries utilities also distribute electricity. In a few cases such multi-utilities also collect solid waste and provide local telephone services. An example of such an integrated utility can be found in the Colombian city of Medellín. Utilities that provide water, sanitation and electricity can be found in Frankfurt, Germany (Mainova), in Casablanca, Morocco and in Gabon in West Africa. Multi-utilities provide certain benefits such as common billing and the option to cross-subsidize water services with revenues from electricity sales, if permitted by law.\n\nWater supply providers can be either public, private, mixed or cooperative. Most urban water supply services around the world are provided by public entities. As Willem-Alexander, Prince of Orange (2002) stated, \"The water crisis that is affecting so many people is mainly a crisis of governance — not of water scarcity.\" The introduction of cost-reflective tariffs together with cross-subsidization between richer and poorer consumers is an essential governance reform in order to reduce the high levels of Unaccounted-for Water (UAW) and to provide the finance needed to extend the network to those poorest households who remain unconnected. Partnership arrangements between the public and private sector can play an important role in order to achieve this objective.\n\nAn estimated 10 percent of urban water supply is provided by private or mixed public-private companies, usually under concessions, leases or management contracts. Under these arrangements the public entity that is legally responsible for service provision delegates certain or all aspects of service provision to the private service provider for a period typically ranging from 4 to 30 years. The public entity continues to own the assets. These arrangements are common in France and in Spain. Only in few parts of the world water supply systems have been completely sold to the private sector (privatization), such as in England and Wales as well as in Chile. The largest private water companies in the world are Suez and Veolia Environnement from France; \"Aguas de Barcelona\" from Spain; and Thames Water from the UK, all of which are engaged internationally (see links to website of these companies below). In recent years, a number of cities have reverted to the public sector in a process called \"remunicipalization\".\n\n90% of urban water supply and sanitation services are currently in the public sector. They are owned by the state or local authorities, or also by collectives or cooperatives. They run without an aim for profit but are based on the ethos of providing a common good considered to be of public interest. In most middle and low-income countries, these publicly owned and managed water providers can be inefficient as a result of political interference, leading to over-staffing and low labor productivity.\nIronically, the main losers from this institutional arrangement are the urban poor in these countries. Because they are not connected to the network, they end up paying far more per liter of water than do more well-off households connected to the network who benefit from the implicit subsidies that they receive from loss-making utilities.\nThe fact that we are still so far from achieving universal access to clean water and sanitation shows that public water authorities, in their current state, are not working well enough.\nYet some are being very successful and are modelling the best forms of public management. As Ryutaro Hashimoto, former Japanese Prime Minister, notes: \"Public water services currently provide more than 90 percent of water supply in the world. Modest improvement in public water operators will have immense impact on global provision of services.\"\n\nGovernance arrangements for both public and private utilities can take many forms (Kurian and McCarney, 2010). Governance arrangements define the relationship between the service provider, its owners, its customers and regulatory entities. They determine the financial autonomy of the service provider and thus its ability to maintain its assets, expand services, attract and retain qualified staff, and ultimately to provide high-quality services. Key aspects of governance arrangements are the extent to which the entity in charge of providing services is insulated from arbitrary political intervention; and whether there is an explicit mandate and political will to allow the service provider to recover all or at least most of its costs through tariffs and retain these revenues. If water supply is the responsibility of a department that is integrated in the administration of a city, town or municipality, there is a risk that tariff revenues are diverted for other purposes. In some cases, there is also a risk that staff are appointed mainly on political grounds rather than based on their professional credentials.\n\nInternational standards for water supply system are covered by International Classification of Standards (ICS) 91.140.60.\n\nComparing the performance of water and sanitation service providers (utilities) is needed, because the sector offers limited scope for direct competition (natural monopoly). Firms operating in competitive markets are under constant pressure to out perform each other. Water utilities are often sheltered from this pressure, and it frequently shows: some utilities are on a sustained improvement track, but many others keep falling further behind best practice. Benchmarking the performance of utilities allows the stimulation of competition, establish realistic targets for improvement and create pressure to catch up with better utilities. Information on benchmarks for water and sanitation utilities is provided by the International Benchmarking Network for Water and Sanitation Utilities.\n\nThe cost of supplying water consists, to a very large extent, of fixed costs (capital costs and personnel costs) and only to a small extent of variable costs that depend on the amount of water consumed (mainly energy and chemicals). The full cost of supplying water in urban areas in developed countries is about US$1–2 per cubic meter depending on local costs and local water consumption levels. The cost of sanitation (sewerage and wastewater treatment) is another US$1–2 per cubic meter. These costs are somewhat lower in developing countries. Throughout the world, only part of these costs is usually billed to consumers, the remainder being financed through direct or indirect subsidies from local, regional or national governments (see section on tariffs).\n\nBesides subsidies water supply investments are financed through internally generated revenues as well as through debt. Debt financing can take the form of credits from commercial Banks, credits from international financial institutions such as the World Bank and regional development banks (in the case of developing countries), and bonds (in the case of some developed countries and some upper middle-income countries).\n\nAlmost all service providers in the world charge tariffs to recover part of their costs. According to estimates by the World Bank the average (mean) global water tariff is US$0.53 per cubic meter. In developed countries the average tariff is US$1.04, while it is only U$0.11 in the poorest developing countries. The lowest tariffs in developing countries are found in South Asia (mean of US$0.09/m3), while the highest are found in Latin America (US$0.41/m3). Data for 132 cities were assessed. The tariff is estimate for a consumption level of 15 cubic meters per month. Few utilities do recover all their costs. According to the same World Bank study only 30% of utilities globally, and only 50% of utilities in developed countries, generate sufficient revenue to cover operation, maintenance and partial capital costs.\n\nAccording to another study undertaken in 2006 by NUS Consulting, the average water and sewerage tariff in 14 mainly OECD countries excluding VAT varied between US$0.66 per cubic meter in the United States and the equivalent of US$2.25 per cubic meter in Denmark. However, water consumption is much higher in the US than in Europe. Therefore, residential water bills may be very similar, even if the tariff per unit of consumption tends to be higher in Europe than in the US.\n\nA typical family on the US East Coast paid between US$30 and US$70 per month for water and sewer services in 2005.\n\nIn developing countries, tariffs are usually much further from covering costs. Residential water bills for a typical consumption of 15 cubic meters per month vary between less than US$1 and US$12 per month.\n\nWater and sanitation tariffs, which are almost always billed together, can take many different forms. Where meters are installed, tariffs are typically volumetric (per usage), sometimes combined with a small monthly fixed charge. In the absence of meters, flat or fixed rates — which are independent of actual consumption — are being charged. In developed countries, tariffs are usually the same for different categories of users and for different levels of consumption.\n\nIn developing countries, the situation is often characterized by cross-subsidies with the intent to make water more affordable for residential low-volume users that are assumed to be poor. For example, industrial and commercial users are often charged higher tariffs than public or residential users. Also, metered users are often charged higher tariffs for higher levels of consumption (increasing-block tariffs). However, cross-subsidies between residential users do not always reach their objective. Given the overall low level of water tariffs in developing countries even at higher levels of consumption, most consumption subsidies benefit the wealthier segments of society. Also, high industrial and commercial tariffs can provide an incentive for these users to supply water from other sources than the utility (own wells, water tankers) and thus actually erode the utility's revenue base.\n\nMetering of water supply is usually motivated by one or several of four objectives: First, it provides an incentive to conserve water which protects water resources (environmental objective). Second, it can postpone costly system expansion and saves energy and chemical costs (economic objective). Third, it allows a utility to better locate distribution losses (technical objective). Fourth, it allows suppliers to charge for water based on use, which is perceived by many as the fairest way to allocate the costs of water supply to users. Metering is considered good practice in water supply and is widespread in developed countries, except for the United Kingdom. In developing countries it is estimated that half of all urban water supply systems are metered and the tendency is increasing.\n\nWater meters are read by one of several methods:\n\nMost cities are increasingly installing Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) systems to prevent fraud, to lower ever-increasing labor and liability costs and to improve customer service and satisfaction.\n\nWater supply can get contaminated by pathogens which may originate from human excreta, for example due to a break-down or design fault in the sanitation system, or by chemical contaminants.\n\nExamples of contamination include:\n\n\nExamples of chemical contamination include:\n\n\nThroughout history, people have devised systems to make getting and using water more convenient. Living in semi-arid regions, ancient Persians in the 1st millennium BC used qanat system to gain access to water in the mountains. Early Rome had indoor plumbing, meaning a system of aqueducts and pipes that terminated in homes and at public wells and fountains for people to use.\n\nUntil the Enlightenment era, little progress was made in water supply and sanitation and the engineering skills of the Romans were largely neglected throughout Europe. It was in the 18th century that a rapidly growing population fueled a boom in the establishment of private water supply networks in London. The Chelsea Waterworks Company was established in 1723 \"for the better supplying the City and Liberties of Westminster and parts adjacent with water\". Other waterworks were established in London, including at West Ham in 1743, at Lea Bridge before 1767, Lambeth Waterworks Company in 1785, West Middlesex Waterworks Company in 1806 and Grand Junction Waterworks Company in 1811.\n\nThe S-bend pipe was invented by Alexander Cummings in 1775 but became known as the U-bend following the introduction of the U-shaped trap by Thomas Crapper in 1880. The first screw-down water tap was patented in 1845 by Guest and Chrimes, a brass foundry in Rotherham.\n\nIn ancient Peru, the Nazca people employed a system of interconnected wells and an underground watercourse known as puquios. In Spain and Spanish America, a community operated watercourse known as an acequia, combined with a simple sand filtration system, provided potable water. Beginning in the Roman era a water wheel device known as a noria supplied water to aqueducts and other water distribution systems in major cities in Europe and the Middle East. London water supply infrastructure developed over many centuries from early mediaeval conduits, through major 19th-century treatment works built in response to cholera threats, to modern, large-scale reservoirs.\n\nWater towers appeared around the late 19th century; as building height rose, and steam, electric and diesel-powered water pumps became available. As skyscrapers appeared, they needed rooftop water towers.\n\nThe technique of purification of drinking water by use of compressed liquefied chlorine gas was developed in 1910 by U.S. Army Major (later Brig. Gen.) Carl Rogers Darnall (1867–1941), professor of chemistry at the Army Medical School. Shortly thereafter, Major (later Col.) William J. L. Lyster (1869–1947) of the Army Medical Department used a solution of calcium hypochlorite in a linen bag to treat water. For many decades, Lyster's method remained the standard for U.S. ground forces in the field and in camps, implemented in the form of the familiar Lyster Bag (also spelled Lister Bag). Darnall's work became the basis for present day systems of municipal water purification.\n\nDesalination appeared during the late 20th century, and is still limited to a few areas.\n\nDuring the beginning of the 21st Century, especially in areas of urban and suburban population centers, traditional centralized infrastructure have not been able to supply sufficient quantities of water to keep up with growing demand. Among several options that have been managed are the extensive use of desalination technology, this is especially prevalent in coastal areas and in \"dry\" countries like Australia. Decentralization of water infrastructure has grown extensively as a viable solution including Rainwater harvesting and Stormwater harvesting where policies are eventually tending towards a more rational use and sourcing of water incorporation concepts such as \"Fit for Purpose\". Emirians have the highest per capita water consumption rate in the world, at 133 gallons.\n\nThe first documented use of sand filters to purify the water supply dates to 1804, when the owner of a bleachery in Paisley, Scotland, John Gibb, installed an experimental filter, selling his unwanted surplus to the public. The first treated public water supply in the world was installed by engineer James Simpson for the Chelsea Waterworks Company in London in 1829. The practice of water treatment soon became mainstream, and the virtues of the system were made starkly apparent after the investigations of the physician John Snow during the 1854 Broad Street cholera outbreak demonstrated the role of the water supply in spreading the cholera epidemic.\n\nThe Metropolis Water Act introduced regulation of the water supply companies in London, including minimum standards of water quality for the first time. The Act \"made provision for securing the supply to the Metropolis of pure and wholesome water\", and required that all water be \"effectually filtered\" from 31 December 1855. This legislation set a worldwide precedent for similar state public health interventions across Europe.\n\nPermanent water chlorination began in 1905, when a faulty slow sand filter and a contaminated water supply led to a serious typhoid fever epidemic in Lincoln, England. Dr. Alexander Cruickshank Houston used chlorination of the water to stem the epidemic. His installation fed a concentrated solution of chloride of lime to the water being treated. The first continuous use of chlorine in the United States for disinfection took place in 1908 at Boonton Reservoir (on the Rockaway River), which served as the supply for Jersey City, New Jersey.\nDesalination appeared during the late 20th century, and is still limited to a few areas.\n\nThe technique of purification of drinking water by use of compressed liquefied chlorine gas was developed by a British officer in the Indian Medical Service, Vincent B. Nesfield, in 1903. U.S. Army Major Carl Rogers Darnall, Professor of Chemistry at the Army Medical School, gave the first practical demonstration of this in 1910. This work became the basis for present day systems of municipal water \"purification\".\n\nWater supply issues have specific adverse effects on women in developing nations. Women are often the primary family member responsible for providing water as well as collecting it. Inclusion of women in the design and implementation of water supply projects is an area of concern currently being addressed by multiple world organizations.\n\n\n"}
