{"id": "40542342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40542342", "title": "A visa", "text": "A visa\n\nAn A Visa is a category of non-immigrant visas allowing travel to the United States issued to ambassadors, diplomats, government officials, and their support staff.\n\nThe A-1 visa is granted to ambassadors, ministers, diplomats, consular officers, and their immediate family members. While government officials normally do not qualify for an A-1 visa if they are traveling for non-official, non-governmental purposes, heads of state always qualify and must apply for an A visa regardless of their purpose of travel. Visitors on an A-1 visa cannot be tried under US law for a crime, and may travel to and from the country an unlimited number of times. There is no maximum length of stay for individuals admitted on an A-1 visa, and there is no requirement to maintain a foreign residence.\n\nThe A-2 visa is granted to certain government officials, employees, their immediate families, and their technical and support staff. This includes military personnel traveling for reasons not related to NATO. Those typically admitted under an A-2 visa include:\n\n\nThere is a maximum limit of 5 years (no renewal possible) on the duration of stay for A-2 visa holders, and no requirement to maintain a foreign residence.\n\nThe A-3 visa is granted to attendants, servants, and employees of those in the US under A-1 or A-2 visas. A-3 recipients fall into two categories: those paid by the principal applicant's home government, and domestic employees paid by the principal applicant themselves. The maximum duration of stay is three years, and individuals are exempt from US taxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "85069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85069", "title": "Acceptable use policy", "text": "Acceptable use policy\n\nAn acceptable use policy (AUP), acceptable usage policy or fair use policy, is a set of rules applied by the owner, creator or administrator of a network, website, or service, that restrict the ways in which the network, website or system may be used and sets guidelines as to how it should be used. AUP documents are written for corporations, businesses, universities, schools, internet service providers (ISPs), and website owners, often to reduce the potential for legal action that may be taken by a user, and often with little prospect of enforcement.\n\nAcceptable use policies are an integral part of the framework of information security policies; it is often common practice to ask new members of an organization to sign an AUP before they are given access to its information systems. For this reason, an AUP must be concise and clear, while at the same time covering the most important points about what users are, and are not, allowed to do with the IT systems of an organization. It should refer users to the more comprehensive security policy where relevant. It should also, and very notably, define what sanctions will be applied if a user breaks the AUP. Compliance with this policy should, as usual, be measured by regular audits.\n\nIn some cases a fair usage policy applied to a service allowing nominally unlimited use for a fixed fee simply sets a cap on what may be used, intended to allow normal usage but prevent what is considered excessive. For example, users of an \"unlimited\" broadband Internet service may be subject to suspension, termination, or bandwidth limiting for usage which is \"continually excessive, unfair, affects other users' enjoyment of the broadband service, or is not consistent with the usage typically expected on a particular access package\". The policy is enforced directly, without legal proceedings.\n\nAUP documents are similar to and often serve the same function as the \"Terms of Service\" document (e.g., as used by Google Gmail and Yahoo!), although not always. In the case of IBM.com for instance, the Terms of Use are about the way in which IBM presents the site, how \"they\" interact with visitors of the site and little to no instruction as to how to use the site.\n\nIn some cases, AUP documents are named \"Internet and E-mail Policy\", \"Internet AUP\", \"Network AUP\", or \"Acceptable IT Use Policy\". These documents, even though named differently, largely provide policy statements as to what behavior is acceptable from users of the local network/Internet connected via the local network.\n\nIn general, AUP statements/documents often begin with a statement of the philosophy of the sponsoring organization and intended reason as to why Internet use is offered to the users of that organization's network. For example, the sponsoring organization adopts a philosophy of self-regulation and offers the user connection to the local network and also connection to the Internet providing that the user accepts the fact she/he is going to be personally responsible for actions taken when connected to the network or Internet. This may mean that the organization is not going to provide any warning system should the user contravene policy, maintaining that it is up to the user to know when his/her actions are in violation of policy.\nOften Acceptable Use Policy documents provide a statement about the use of the network and/or Internet and its uses and advantages to the business, school or other organisation sponsoring connection to the Internet. Such a statement may outline the benefit of email systems, ability to gain information from websites, connection with other people through the use of instant messaging, and other similar benefits of various protocols including the relatively new VoIP services.\n\nThe most important part of an AUP document is the code of conduct governing the behaviour of a user whilst connected to the network/Internet. The code of conduct may include some description of what may be called netiquette which includes such items of conduct as using appropriate/polite language while online, avoiding illegal activities, ensuring that activities the user may embark on should not disturb or disrupt any other user on the system, and caution not to reveal personal information that could be the cause of identity theft.\n\nMost AUP statements outline consequences of violating the policy. Such violations are met with consequences depending on the relationship of the user with the organisation. Common actions that schools and universities take is to withdraw the service to the violator and sometimes if the activities are illegal the organization may involve appropriate authorities, such as the local police. Employers will at times withdraw the service from employees, although a more common action is to terminate employment when violations may be hurting the employer in some way, or may compromise security. Earthlink, an American Internet service provider has a very clear policy relating to violations of its policy. The company identifies six levels of response to violations:\n\n\nCentral to most AUP documents is the section detailing unacceptable uses of the network, as displayed in the University of Chicago AUP. Unacceptable behaviours may include creation and transmission of offensive, obscene, or indecent document or images, creation and transmission of material which is designed to cause annoyance, inconvenience or anxiety, creation of defamatory material, creation and transmission that infringes copyright of another person, transmission of unsolicited commercial or advertising material and deliberate unauthorised access to other services accessible using the connection to the network/Internet. Then there is the type of activity that uses the network to waste time of technical staff to troubleshoot a problem for which the user is the cause, corrupting or destroying other user's data, violating the privacy of others online, using the network in such a way that it denies the service to others, continuing to use software or other system for which the user has already been warned about using, and any other misuse of the network such as introduction of viruses.\n\nDisclaimers are often added in order to absolve an organisation from responsibility under specific circumstances. For example, in the case of Anglia Ruskin University a disclaimer is added absolving the University for errors or omissions or for any consequences arising from the use of information contained on the University website. While disclaimers may be added to any AUP, disclaimers are most often found on AUP documents relating to the use of a website while those offering a service fail to add such clauses.\n\nParticularly when an AUP is written for a college or school setting, AUPs remind students (or when in the case of a company, employees) that connection to the Internet, or use of a website, is a privilege, as demonstrated in the Loughborough University's Janet Service AUP and not a right. Through emphasising this \"privilege\" aspect, Northern Illinois University then make the connection that any abuse of that privilege can result in legal action from the University.\n\nIn a handbook for writing AUP documents, the Virginia Department of Education indicate that there are three other areas needing to be addressed in an AUP:\n\n\nThrough a cursory reading of AUP statements found by a Google Search the variation of the inclusion of these items in AUP documents is highly variable. However, those statements in a school or university setting are more likely to include a statement to address at least the \"personal safety\" issue.\n\nExample:\n6.3 This Policy shall be governed by the laws of England and the parties submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of England and Wales. \n\nDue to the many jurisdictions covered by the Internet, the AUP document needs to specify the jurisdiction, which determines the laws that are applicable and govern the use of an AUP. Even if a company is only located in one jurisdiction and the AUP applies only to its employees, naming the jurisdiction saves difficulties of interpretation should legal action be required to enforce its statements.\n\nAUP can be effectively enforced with Content and URL filters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234889", "title": "Act 250 (Vermont law)", "text": "Act 250 (Vermont law)\n\nAct 250, Vermont's Land Use and Development Act, is a law passed in 1970 by the Vermont legislature designed to mitigate the effects of development through an application process that addresses the environmental and community impacts of projects that exceed a threshold in size.\n\nDevelopment pressures resulting from the opening of two interstate highways (I-89 and I-91) made access to the state much easier for year-round visitors, creating community concerns including road congestion, increased environmental problems, burden on local services, and rising taxes. Governor Deane C. Davis appointed a study commission in 1969 to develop a statewide law to address these concerns, as no environmental regulations or land use controls existed. A major contributor to the construction of the law was Laura G. Wheeler, in consultation with then Vermont Attorney General James Jeffords.\n\nThe law created nine District Environmental Commissions to review large-scale development projects using 10 criteria that are designed to safeguard the environment, community life, and aesthetic character of the state. They have the power to issue or deny a permit to real estate developers for any project that encompasses more than 10 acres (40,000 m²), or more than one acre (4,000 m²) for towns that do not have permanent zoning and subdivision bylaws. The law also applies to any development project with more than 10 housing units or housing lots; and may also apply for construction proposed above of elevation. Act 250 also created the Vermont Environmental Board to review appeals coming from District Commission rulings.\n\nThe District Commissions are:\n\n\nThe 10 Criteria are as follows:\n\nThe 10 criteria have changed little since the adoption of Act 250 in 1970. Efforts have been made over the years to make the permitting process work more efficiently, along with performance standards. Today, the District Commissions receive between 600 and 800 applications per year, and hold hearings on an average of 20% of these. They have an approval record of 98%, but this rate includes plans modified during the hearing process, with conditions typically attached to permits when granted.\n\nAct 250 jurisdiction attaches forever to permits, except to permits for quarries and logging at elevations over . These permits are allowed to close when the work required to complete them is complete. There is not sufficient funding to support personnel to verify proper completion of the required activity, so the Act 250 office must rely on the permit applicant to truthfully verify completion.\n\nOne of the co-creators of Act 250 was Laura G. Wheeler of Barre Town, Vermont. Her highly successful campaign for state office having been cut short just before taking office due to medical limitations, she did not want to leave public service without ensuring a clean environment for future generations. That legacy took shape in the form of Act 250. She consulted frequently with the then Attorney General James Jeffords, who provided crucial guidance in the editing and perfecting Act 250 until it reached its final approved form. Wheeler spearheaded the campaign, researching the topic fully and consulting with many experts to ensure its success. Others who were consulted on and were instrumental in its creation include, but are not limited to: Howard Rusk of New York, Jeanne Garvin of Montpelier, Vermont and Lawrence Gurnette of Michigan.\nPer interview with Wheeler, her primary motive was to create a more beautiful Vermont by protecting clean rivers, the forest's ability to support clean air and abundant wildlife, and to preserve Vermont's natural resources of all kinds for generations to come. Of greatest concern was forest conservation and the prevention of excessive clear cutting. She presented and promoted this landmark legislation before Congressional committee, so other leaders would have opportunity to benefit from the template created by Act 250 and be encouraged to enact similar measures in their home states. It met with great approval, with many legislators commenting that it was 'a long time coming', and 'a much needed effort to protect the planet as a whole.'\n\nThe law has been controversial since its implementation,as some businesses interests do not like the restrictions placed on projects they wish to complete. In his 2002 gubernatorial campaign, Governor Jim Douglas ran on a platform that included restructuring Act 250.\n\nVermont has been designated one of America's most \"Endangered Historic Places\" by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24915896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24915896", "title": "Charities Act 2005", "text": "Charities Act 2005\n\nThe Charities Act is an Act of Parliament passed in New Zealand in 2005. One of the functions of the Act was setting up the Charities Commission.\n\nThe Charities Act is administered by the Ministry of Social Development and the Department of Internal Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28853010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28853010", "title": "Citizenship Act", "text": "Citizenship Act\n\nMany countries have a law named Citizenship Act, which regulates the citizenship of the country.\n\nLaws of that name include: (among others)\n"}
{"id": "16783307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16783307", "title": "Consumer Protection Act 1987", "text": "Consumer Protection Act 1987\n\nThe Consumer Protection Act 1987 (c 43) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that made important changes to the consumer law of the United Kingdom. Part 1 implemented European Community (EC) Directive 85/374/EEC, the product liability directive, by introducing a regime of strict liability for damage arising from defective products. Part 2 created government powers to regulate the safety of consumer products through Statutory Instruments. Part 3 defined a criminal offence of giving a misleading price indication.\n\nThe Act was notable in that it was the first occasion that the UK government implemented an EC directive through an Act of Parliament rather than an order under the European Communities Act 1972.\n\nSection 2 imposes civil liability in tort for damage caused wholly or partly by a defect in a product. Liability falls on:\n\nLiability is strict, and there is no need to demonstrate fault or negligence on behalf of the producer. Liability cannot be \"written out\" by an exclusion clause (s.7)\n\nDamage includes (s.5):\n— but damage to the product itself is excluded, as are other forms of pure economic loss.\n\nA product is any goods or electricity and includes products aggregated into other products, whether as component parts, raw materials or otherwise (s.1(2)(c)) though a supplier of the aggregate product is not liable simply on the basis of that fact (s.1(3)). Buildings and land are not included though construction materials such as bricks and girders are. Information and software are not included though printed instructions and embedded software are relevant to the overall safety of a \"product\".\n\nThe original Act did not apply to unprocessed game or agricultural produce (s.2(4)) but this exception was repealed on 4 December 2000 to comply with EU Directive 1999/34/EC which was enacted because of fears over BSE.\n\nSection 3 defines a defect as being present when \"the safety of the product is not such as persons generally are entitled to expect\". Safety is further defined as to apply to products that are component parts or raw materials in other products, and to risks to property as well as risks of death and personal injury (s.3(1)).\n\nThe standard of safety that \"persons generally are entitled to expect\" is to be assessed in relation to all the circumstances, including (s.3(2)):\n— but the fact that older products were less safe than newer ones does not, of itself, render the older products defective.\n\nSchedule 1 amends the Limitation Act 1980. Claims under the Act are barred three years after the date when damage occurred or when it came to the knowledge of the claimant. However, no claim can be brought more than 10 years after the date the product was put into circulation.\n\nSection 4(1)(e) states that, in civil proceedings, it is a defence to show that:\n\nThis defence was allowed to member states as an option under the Directive. , all EU member states other than Finland and Luxembourg had taken advantage of it to some extent. However, the concept had been criticised and rejected by the Law Commission in 1977, particularly influenced by the thalidomide tragedy, and by the Pearson Commission in 1978.\n\nThe UK implementation differs from the version of the defence in Art.7(e) of the Directive:\n\nThe directive seems to suggest that discovery of the defect must be impossible while the UK implementation seems to broaden the defence to situations where, while it would have been possible to discover the defect, it would have been unreasonable to expect the producer to do so. This difference led the Commission of the European Union to bring legal action against the UK in 1989. As there was at that time no UK case law on the defence, the European Court of Justice found that there was no evidence that the UK was interpreting the defence more broadly than the wording of the directive. This is likely to ensure that the UK legislation is interpreted to be consistent with the directive in the future, as was the case in \"A & Others v. National Blood Authority\" where the judge referred to the directive rather than the UK legislation.\n\n\nThe UK was one of only a few EU member states that implemented Directive 85/374 within the three-year deadline. There is a view that the Act \"probably represents the truest implementation\" of the directive among member states. The UK did not take the option of applying a ceiling on claims for personal injury and in certain respects it goes further than the directive.\n\nThe first claim under the Act was not brought to court until 2000, 12 years after the Act came into force and, , there have been very few court cases. This pattern is common in other EU member states and research indicates that most claims are settled out of court. Exact information on the impact of the Act is difficult to obtain as there is no reporting requirement similar to that under the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Act.\n\nSection 10 originally imposed a general safety requirement on consumer products but this was repealed when its effect was superseded by the broader requirements of the General Product Safety Regulations 2005.\n\nSection 11 gives the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, the power to make, after consultation, regulations by way of Statutory Instrument to ensure that:\n\nRegulations under this section cannot be made to apply to (s.11(7)):\n\nEvery weights and measures authority in England, Wales and Scotland and every Northern Ireland district council has a duty to enforce, as an enforcement authority, the safety provisions in addition to the law on misleading price indications though these duties can be delegated by the Secretary of State (s.27). Enforcement authorities have the power to make test purchases (s.28) and have powers of entry and search (ss.29-30). Further, a customs officer can detain goods (s.31). There are criminal offences of obstructing an officer of an enforcement authority or giving false information, punishable with a fine (s.32) and recovery of the costs of enforcement (s.35).\n\nAppeal against detention of goods is to the Magistrates' Court, or in Scotland the Sheriff (s.33) and compensation can be ordered (s.34). There is a further right of appeal to the Crown Court in England and Wales, the County Court in Northern Ireland (s.33(4)).\n\nBreach of regulations is a crime, punishable on summary conviction by up to 6 months' imprisonment and a fine of up to level 5 on the standard scale (s.12).\n\nThe Secretary of State may serve on any person (s.13):\n\nAn enforcement authority can serve a suspension notice prohibiting supply of a product for up to 6 months (s.14). The supplier can appeal a suspension notice to the Magistrates' Court, or in Scotland the Sheriff (s.15).\n\nBreach of any such notice is a crime, punishable on summary conviction by up to 3 months' imprisonment and a fine of up to level 5 on the standard scale (ss.13(4), 14(6)).\n\nIn England, Wales and Northern Ireland, an enforcement authority may apply to a Magistrates' Court for a forfeiture order to seize unsafe products where (s.16):\n\nIn Scotland a sheriff may make an order for forfeiture where there has been a contravention of safety regulations (s.17):\n\nAppeal against forfeiture is to the Crown Court in England and Wales, the County Court in Northern Ireland (s.16(5)), or the High Court of Justiciary in Scotland (s.17(8)).\n\nThe Secretary of State may require information of any person in order to (s.18):\n\nFailure to provide information is a crime, punishable on summary conviction by a fine of up to level 5 on the standard scale. Provision of false information is a crime, punishable on summary conviction by a fine of up to the statutory maximum and on indictment in the Crown Court of an unlimited fine (s.18(4)).\n\nThe Act created a crime of giving a misleading price indication in Part III where a person, in the course of business gives, by any means whatever, to a consumer an indication that is misleading as to the price at which any of the following is available (s.20)[note that Part III of the Act was repealed by the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008]:\n\nAn offender can be sentenced, on summary conviction to a fine of up to the statutory maximum for Magistrates' Courts or, on conviction on indictment in the Crown Court to an unlimited fine (s.20(4)).\n\nA price indication is misleading if it conveys, or if consumers might reasonably be expected to infer, that (s.21):\n\n\n----\n"}
{"id": "27402555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27402555", "title": "Criminal possession of a weapon", "text": "Criminal possession of a weapon\n\nCriminal possession of a weapon is the unlawful possession of a weapon by an individual. \n\nMany societies both past and present have placed restrictions on what forms of weaponry private citizens (and to a lesser extent police) are allowed to purchase, own, and carry in public. Such crimes are public order crimes and are considered \"mala prohibita\", in that the possession of a weapon in and of itself is not evil. Rather, the \"potential\" for use in acts of unlawful violence creates a perceived need to control them. Some restrictions are strict liability, whereas others require some element of intent to use the weapon for an illegal purpose. Some regulations allow a citizen to obtain a permit or other authorization to possess the weapon under certain circumstances. Lawful uses of weapons by civilians commonly include hunting, sport, collection and self-preservation.\n\nCriminal possession of a weapon generally falls into one of several categories:\n\nAll weapon possession crimes follow some standard of intent (mens rea), though this standard varies. The most common is \"strict liability,\" meaning that there is no requirement of intent whatsoever: Merely being caught by law enforcement with the weapon in question under the circumstances described in the law (possession, concealed, or open) is a crime in and of itself, with almost no possible defense other than proving the item is not an illegal weapon within the law's definition. Some laws allow the accused a defense to the charge that the item in question was going to be used for a specific set of lawful purposes, such as one's occupation (examples are sets of knives carried by a line cook en route to his job, or tools carried by a construction worker or craftsman). In this case, the burden of proof is often placed on the accused, requiring them to prove their lawful intent in court. \n\nOther laws require proof of specific intent to commit a criminal act by the accused, thereby placing the burden on the state to produce evidence that the weapon was possessed with some unlawful purpose (such as an attempted homicide, robbery, or assault). The circumstances under which law enforcement discover the weapon often play a strong role in this.\n\nMany laws about weapon possession contain exemptions for persons of specific occupations, or allow for permission to be obtained from the government to lawfully possess the weapon. \n\nGenerally, military personnel actively carrying out their duties are exempt from nearly any restriction other than internal policy and international treaties. However, they are often restricted from possessing their issued weapons when they are not on duty.\n\nPolice often are allowed to lawfully possess certain weaponry above what the populace is allowed to possess, though this varies by nation and jurisdiction. In some nations police may take their armaments home when off duty, while in others they are required to leave all (or some) of them in storage at their station. Some jurisdictions have special paramilitary units (such as SWAT or AFO) that carry machine guns, explosives or other military weapons, though the majority of the time these must be stored at the unit's headquarters.\n\nFor civilians, permits can sometimes be obtained to possess or carry certain weapons if that person meets certain qualifications that show they can be trusted (such as safety training and lack of prior criminal behavior) and/or have a specific need for the weapon, for example if the nature of their job places them at high risk for assault or robbery. The most common in the United States is a permit to carry a concealed handgun for purposes of self-defense. This permit often applies to both firearms and other self-defense implements. In many states, no permit at all is needed to carry a non-concealed firearm or other weapon. Other types of license can be obtained for collection and exhibition purposes, such as under the National Firearms Act. In the UK, a citizen can obtain a firearms or shotgun certificate in order to legally purchase and own rifles or shotguns for the purposes of sport and hunting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20880662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20880662", "title": "Crofter Hand Woven Harris Tweed Co Ltd v Veitch", "text": "Crofter Hand Woven Harris Tweed Co Ltd v Veitch\n\nCrofter Hand Woven Harris Tweed Co Ltd v Veitch [1941] UKHL 2 is a landmark UK labour law case on the right to take part in collective bargaining. However, the actual decision which appears to allow secondary action may have been limited by developments from the 1980s.\n\nLord Wright famously affirmed that:\n\nIn the Harris Tweed industry on the island of Lewis in the Outer Hebrides, several independent producers of tweed cloth were in a dispute with the Transport and General Workers' Union over working conditions. The TGWU called on dockers in Stornoway, also TGWU members to refuse to handle the yarn imported to the island by the producers.\n\nThe House of Lords held that there was no actionable conspiracy in this case. Lord Chancellor Simon said,\n\nLord Thankerton said the following.\n\nLord Wright affirmed that the union had a right to take part in collective bargaining and more than that said,\n\n"}
{"id": "249988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249988", "title": "Custody and repatriation", "text": "Custody and repatriation\n\nCustody and repatriation (C&R; ) was an administrative procedure, established in 1982 and ended in 2003, by which the police in the People's Republic of China (usually cities) could detain people if they did not have a residence permit (hukou) or temporary living permit (\"zanzhuzheng\"), and return them to the place where they could legally live or work (usually rural areas). At times the requirement included possession of a valid national identity card. The system was abolished in 2003 after the death of Sun Zhigang, a migrant worker who died from physical abuse while being detained under the C&R system in Guangzhou.\n\nIn China there were reported to be some 800 detention camps in 2000 (not including Beijing), and by then several million people had been through them. As well as migrant workers, the Chinese camps usually contained vagrants, beggars, petitioners, and criminals, and the police (Public Security Bureau) earned income by this traffic and sometimes workers' unpaid labor. Often the detentions were unfairly long.\n\nThe ostensible reason for the C&R regulation in 1982 in China was to ameliorate the situation of people in the cities who were beggars or homeless. Originally it applied to \"three withouts persons,\" those with \"no fixed place of residence, no means of livelihood and no permits to live in the city in question\" but later it was applied in 1991 to others without just the residence or work permits. It built on a 1961 Party directive implementing the hukou system of residence (traditional family registers found in several Asian countries), work permits (issued by police on behalf of work units or employers) to prevent uncontrolled population movements, as passports and visas do internationally, and Resident Identity Cards. In turn, this regulation extended older rules that were used to enforce extrajudicial movements of Nationalist troops away from liberated cities. But as the economic development of cities in the east later required increased domestic migrant workers, the regulations were not adequately adapted or were unfairly enforced, by the Public Security Bureau (police, supposed to be in charge of deportation) instead of the Ministry of Civil Affairs (supposed to be in charge of detention). These abuses became apparent in years before 2003 and there were internal and external warnings and discussion, with some improvements but little effect overall. There were some unpublicized deaths similar to what later occurred.\n\nThe legal procedure of C&R for migrant workers was ended by the central government in 2003 after the death of Sun Zhigang, a migrant worker who died from physical abuse while being detained under the C&R system in Guangzhou.\n\nIn reaction to Sun's death, two groups of senior Chinese legal scholars wrote to the National People's Congress, questioning the constitutionality of the custody and repatriation regulation. One particular problem with the regulations was said to be that they had been adopted as regulations by the State Council and not as a law by the full Congress. As a result, it was argued, the C&R law for migrant workers was unconstitutional, on the grounds that it violated citizens' rights articles of the Constitution. As in many other countries, Chinese law does not provide for constitutional judicial review, and — as in systems without a constitution, such as the UK — the legislature or administration instead of judges must change laws deemed unconstitutional. There has been some movement by legal reformers to use courts and bureaucracy to experiment with constitutionalism.\n\nA similar argument was that the custody and repatriation regulations \"violate the 1996 Administrative Punishment Law, which states that administrative punishments which restrict personal freedom may only be authorized by laws passed by the [full] Congress.\" Both criticisms echoed statements published in earlier years by lawyers and legal scholars.\n\nIn addition to the legal arguments, some reports by those with contact with the detention centers (including an official report) indicated that not only were the conditions worse than prisons or reeducation camps (including beatings and prolonged detentions without trial), but also sometimes the police used the system to kidnap and extort more than expenses from the families of the accused. These reports echoed earlier ignored warnings.\n\nOn 20 June 2003, Premier Wen Jiabao announced that the abolition of the custody and repatriation system, effective August 1. The detention centers would be replaced by service stations to care for poor beggars or homeless persons under the new \"Measures for Assisting Vagrants and Beggars with No Means of Support in Cities\". The centers for vagrants are not allowed to collect fees from families nor require them to work. The legal system of hukou and residency and work permits for migrant workers was unchanged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51804625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51804625", "title": "Dawkins v. State", "text": "Dawkins v. State\n\nDawkins v. State, 252 P.3d 214 (Okla. 2011), is a legal case involving limitations on the right to self-defense and stand your ground laws. The court determined that stand your ground laws do not justify use of deadly force, if defendant is engaged in other unlawful activity at the time. The case involved a defendant with a right to lawfully protect where he stood, but who used an illegal weapon with deadly force to stand his ground. \n\nThe court wrote:\n"}
{"id": "30872408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872408", "title": "Doctor of Law", "text": "Doctor of Law\n\nDoctor of Law or Doctor of Laws is a degree in law. The application of the term varies from country to country, and includes degrees such as the Doctor of Juridical Science (J.S.D. or S.J.D), Doctor juris (Dr. iur. or Dr. jur.), Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), Juris Doctor (J.D.), and Legum Doctor (LL.D.).\n\nIn Argentina the Doctor of Laws or Doctor of Juridical Sciences is the highest academic qualification in the field of \"Jurisprudence\". To obtain the doctoral degree the applicant must have previously achieved, at least the undergraduate degree of Attorney. (Título de Abogado). The doctorates in Jurisprudence in Argentina might have different denominations as is described as follow:\n\n\nIn Brazil, the Doctor of Laws degree, known in Portuguese as Doutor em Direito or Doutor em Ciências Jurídicas, is the highest academic degree in law available.\n\nIn some of the country's most important universities there is a higher title known as livre docência, like the habilitation in some European countries. However, this higher title is not a degree in the strict sense, because \"livre docência\" nowadays is an internal title, that applies solely within the institution granting it.\n\nIn the past, \"livre docência\" was a degree in the fullness of the term, and a professor bearing the title would enjoy the privileges of \"livre docência\" if he transferred from one institution to another; there are still living professors who hold the \"old\" \"livre docência\" degrees; but all new titles of that name only confer privileges within the institution granting it.\n\nThe doctoral degree is awarded upon the completion and the successful defense of a thesis prepared by the doctoral candidate under the supervision of a tutor. The thesis must be examined by a board of five professors, holders of the title of doctor or of a \"livre docência\". Two of the members of the board must be professors from another institution. In most Brazilian Law Schools, the candidates are also required to earn a minimum number of credits.\n\nUnlike the rules of other countries, the Brazilian norms governing the grant of doctoral titles do not require the publication of the thesis as a precondition for the award of the degree. Nevertheless, copies of the thesis must be delivered to the institution's library. Usually, doctoral thesis are published by specialized editors after the grant of the doctoral title.\n\nIf one obtains a doctoral title in a foreign country, one cannot enjoy the academic privileges of the title in Brazil unless the title be first validated by a Brazilian University. In that case, the doctor asking for the validation of the title will present his thesis and other documents relating to his foreign doctoral course to a board examiners of the Brazilian University and the examiners will then pass judgement on whether the work done by the candidate adheres to the minimum standards of quality that are usually required by a Brazilian university when granting doctoral degrees.\n\nAdmission to doctoral courses is almost universally reserved to holders of a master's degree (the Master's in Brazil is a graduate degree and is not the first professional degree). Therefore, a bachelor of Laws (a bearer of the first professional degree), seeking the degree of doctor must usually complete a postgraduate course to attain the degree of Master of Laws (to attain that degree one must write and defend a dissertation before a panel of three professors, bearing the title of master, doctor or a \"livre docência, and also complete credits), and only then, after being a Master of Laws, one will apply for admission to a doctoral course.\n\nThere are, however, a few universities that allow \"direct\" admission to the doctoral course without previous completion of the Master's course in exceptional circumstances. Thus, in rare cases, a bachelor of Laws (i.e., a holder of the first professional degree), can be admitted directly to a doctoral course.\n\nUsually, one is allowed three years time to complete a Master of Laws degree, and four years time to complete the doctoral course. So, if one were to graduate from Law School and immediately enter a Master of Laws course and a Doctor of Laws course in immediate succession, that person would become a doctor about seven years after graduating from the Law School. On the other hand, in the rare cases in which a bachelor of Laws is allowed to pursue a \"direct\" doctorate, he is usually allowed five years time to complete the doctoral course.\n\nUnlike the Master of Laws dissertation, the Doctoral Thesys must contain an original contribution to the field of Law under study.\n\nIn Canada, there are several academic law-related doctorates: the Doctor of Laws (LL.D.); Doctor of Juridical Science or Doctor of Legal Science (J.S.D./S.J.D); Doctor of Civil Law (D.C.L.); and the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.).\nThe Doctor of Jurisprudence (Juris Doctor or J.D.) is the professional doctorate degree that is usually required for admissions to post-graduate studies in law.\n\nThe first law degree was known until recently as the Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.). However, since law schools in Canada generally insist on a prior degree or some equivalent in order to grant admission, it was a more advanced degree than the LL.B. degrees awarded by programs abroad, which would accept high school graduates. The majority of Canadian universities now grant that degree rather than the LL.B.; the University of Saskatchewan replaced its LL.B. with a J.D. in 2010, because the Canadian LL.B. is equivalent to the J.D.\n\nAll Canadian J.D. programs are three years, and all (except those in Quebec) have similar mandatory first-year courses: In \"public\", \"constitutional,\" or \"state\" law; tort law; contract law; criminal law, and some sort of \"professional practice\" course. Beyond first year and the minimum requirements for graduation, course selection is elective, with various concentrations such as business law, international law, natural resources law, criminal law, and Aboriginal law.\n\nAfter the first law degree, one may pursue a second, the Masters of Laws (LL.M.) and after that, the Doctor of Law (LL.D.), at some Canadian universities. (The LL.D. is awarded by several universities only as an honorary degree, but when awarded by a law school is an earned degree). Of the universities in Canada that offer earned academic doctorates in law, four (University of Ottawa, University of Montreal, Laval University, and University of Quebec at Montreal) offer LL.Ds, five (University of Alberta, University of British Columbia, Osgoode Hall Law School of York University, Dalhousie University, and University of Victoria) offer Ph.D.s, only one (University of Toronto,) offers J.S.D./S.J.D degrees (Doctor of Juridical Science or Doctor of Legal Science), and one (McGill University) offers a D.C.L (Doctor of Civil Law). The differences largely reflect the divide between Canada's two legal systems (the common law and the civil law). Faculties that teach in the civil law tradition grant LL.D degrees, whereas those in the common law tradition grant either Ph.D.s or J.S.Ds. The York University Ph.D. in law was formerly termed Doctor of Jurisprudence (D.Jur.), until the name was changed in 2002.\n\nIn the Czech Republic and Slovakia the Doctor is a postgraduate degree in two types - as a traditional doctorate (JUDr) and the PhD doctorate.\n\nJUDr (Juris Utrisque Doctor) is a degree with a tradition of several centuries, originally the highest possible degree. Nowadays, its scholar importancy is quite limited, but it serves as a traditional and popular badge degree, especially useful for attorneys. In older times with no master's degree, JUDr. served as the only law degree (and was roughly equivalent to the today's master's degree, plus a special exam). Requirements for obtaining a JUDr degree are a highly rated Master (Mgr.) degree in law, the compilation of a thesis (including successful defense) and passing an oral exam called \"Rigorosum\". The thesis itself is also sometimes called \"Rigorosum\". Many JUDr. theses are based on the students previous Master theses; however, nowadays universities require that the dissertation work is completely new.\n\nDoctoral studies leading to PhD degree are different from the JUDr exam. PhD studies are internal (PhD student is at the same time teacher at the University), which lasts 3–5 years, and external up to 8 years long. PhD. students are obliged to pass some exams during the studies and mainly to work on their dissertation. The PhD is intended basically for candidates interested in an academic career, and it gives them the right to teach at a university.\n\nThe Czech system is in many ways similar to the German and Austrian systems. Therefore, a PhD degree is necessary for habilitation procedure. Through habilitation, the doctor of law who submits his habilitation work (similar to German Habilitationsschrift) can be given a capacity and title of Docent (Doc.), similar to German Dozent, Privatdozent or US Assistant Professor. Docent is not a degree, but a scholar title.\n\nOnly a docent can be appointed a professor through a special procedure. Unlike Germany (and unlike the traditional Czech practice), a professor is not a function (a seat, Cathedra) at a University, but a scholarly title. This leads to many problems, especially the phenomenon of so-called \"flying professors\", who are teaching at two or three universities at the same time and to the decline of academic life.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and Europe, the degree is a higher doctorate usually awarded on the basis of exceptionally insightful and distinctive publications that contain significant and original contributions to the study of law. Some universities, such as the University of Oxford, award a Doctor of Civil Law degree instead. In South Africa the LL.D. is awarded based upon research and completion of a Ph.D. equivalent dissertation; the LL.D. may also be awarded as an honorary degree based upon contributions to society; see below.\n\nIn Finland, the Doctor of Laws (, OTT) (, JD) is the highest academic degree in law, based on 60 credits of course studies and, most importantly, successful completion of a doctoral dissertation. The dissertation usually takes the form of a monograph at least of 250 pages in length, or of a series of published articles. A successful oral disputation is also required. It usually takes at least four years to complete the degree.\n\nThe degree of the Doctor of Laws does not qualify its holder for judicial offices. Instead, the degree of the Master of Laws () () is the requirement for the membership of the Finnish Bar Association and for judicial offices. As the doctoral programs for the doctoral degree are, in principle, open for the holders of all master's degrees, the possession of the degree of the Doctor of Laws is not a guarantee for the possession of the Master of Laws -degree. However, it is very seldom that someone who has not graduated in law graduates for a doctor of law.\n\nIn France, the Doctor of Law degree (\"doctorat en droit\") is a PhD. The PhD in law is required to teach at the university level as a \"maître de conférences\" (lecturer). To become Professor of Law, holders of a PhD in law have yet to pass an additional competitive exam: the \"agrégation de droit\". Only the first year (\"master 1\") of the master's degree in law is necessary to pass the bar exam.\n\nThe Doctor of Laws (\"Doktor der Rechte\") is the terminal degree in law, abbreviated as Dr. iur. \"(Doctor iuris)\" or Dr. jur. \"(Doctor juris)\". The terminology varies: while most universities refer to the degree as Doctor of Laws (\"Doktor der Rechte\" (pl.), e.g. Munich, Münster, Berlin (HU), Cologne, Tübingen, Göttingen), some others refer to it either as Doctor of Jurisprudence (\"Doktor der Rechtswissenschaft\", e.g. Heidelberg, Hamburg) or Doctor of Law (\"Doktor des Rechts\" (sg.), e.g. Berlin (FU)). It is conferred based on a thesis consisting of a suitable body of original academic research, and an oral examination (\"Rigorosum\" or \"Disputation\"). The thesis must have been published as a book or - less common - as a series of articles in a peer reviewed law journal before the degree can be formally conferred. Admission usually requires the grade of \"Fully Satisfactory\" (approximately top quintile of class) in the student's first \"Staatsexamen\" (the Master's level first professional degree). Having successfully passed the second \"Staatsexamen\" (the German equivalent to the bar exam) is not required.\n\nThe Doctor of Both Laws (\"Doktor beider Rechte\"), awarded as Dr. iur. utr. (\"Doctor iuris utriusque\", conferred e.g. in Würzburg) is rare, since it means considering both Civil Law and Canonical Law. A doctorate solely in the latter area is the degree of Dr. iur. can. \"(Doctor iuris canonici)\".\n\nApproximately ten percent of German law graduates hold a doctoral degree. However, the Doctor of Laws is still only the first step to tenure at German law schools. Despite the initiative to establish a junior professorship with tenure option after five to seven years, and special professorships specializing in teaching (\"Lehrprofessur\"), to become a university professor of law a \"habilitation\" (de iure not an academic degree) is still mandatory at most German law schools.\n\nIn Italy, the title of \"Magister Doctor of Law\" (\"Dottore magistrale in Giurisprudenza\") is the title given to students who complete the five-year \"Laurea magistrale\" degree.\n\nDespite the adoption of the Bologna process, in Italy law remains a field that retains the traditional Italian system.\n\nOnce a prospective lawyer has been awarded the Magister Doctor of Law and worked 18 months as a trainee lawyer, he or she is required to pass a state bar examination in order to be licensed to practice as an attorney at law (\"Avvocato\"). Previously, \"dottore in giurisprudenza\" was the title given to the students that completed the old (four-year) course of studies in law.\nAfter the five-year degree, it is possible to enroll in a Ph.D. course in a specific field of law (\"Dottorato\"), and the title obtained is \"Dottore di ricerca\" (Ph.D.).\n\nIn Malta, the European Union's smallest member state, the LL.D. is a doctorate-level academic degree in law requiring at least three years of post-graduate full-time study at the University of Malta, Malta's national university. At least three years of previous law study are required for entry. Students are required to complete coursework in a number of core areas of law, as well as to submit a thesis which is to be \"an original work on the approved subject or other contribution to the knowledge showing that he/she has carried out sufficient research therein\". It confers the title of Doctor, which in Malta is rigorously used to address a holder of the degree. The LL.D. is one of the requirements for admission to the profession of advocate in Malta (an advocate, as opposed to a legal procurator, has rights of representation in superior courts).\n\nIn Malta, practising lawyers are of three designations – notaries, legal procurators and advocates. The Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) degree is an undergraduate degree that of itself is not sufficient for admission into any of the legal professions. A one-year full-time taught post-graduate diploma of Notary Public (N.P.) is required after the LL.B. for admission to the profession of notary public, while a taught post-graduate diploma of Legal Procurator (L.P.) is required for admission to the profession of legal procurator. A legal procurator is a lawyer in Malta that has rights of audience in the lower courts, a profession that was existent in Malta as early, and even prior to 1553. All three professions also require members to be holders of a warrant issued by the President of Malta, obtainable after a minimum of one year of work experience in that profession, and examination. It is not possible for a Maltese lawyer to hold a warrant in more than one of the professions at a time.\n\nNotable holders of the LL.D. degree include Dr. Ugo Mifsud Bonnici (former President of Malta), Prof. Guido de Marco (former President of the United Nations General Assembly and former President of Malta), Dr. George Borg Olivier (first post-independence Prime Minister of Malta), Dr. Edward Fenech Adami (former Prime Minister and former President of Malta) and Dr. Lawrence Gonzi (former Prime Minister of Malta).\n\nAs of 2014 changes to the law course resulted from the implementation of the Bologna Process, will remove the Doctorate of Laws (LLD) title and replace it with Master of Laws (LLM). This means that prospective lawyers will not be honored with a doctorate degree and can no longer use the title \"Dr\". This was met by some contempt from prospective Law students mainly because the title \"Dr\" is seen to be of higher esteem in Maltese society. Students of other disciplines, however, welcomed the change. The program had always been in essence only a master's degree and was therefore viewed as discriminatory, especially by medical students.\n\nIn South Africa the doctorate in law is offered as a research doctorate of at least two years duration, in various specialised areas of law. In general, South African universities offer either the PhD or the LLD, with no significant difference between these. (At UCT, UKZN and Wits, the PhD is the research doctorate, while the LLD is the higher doctorate; SU and UWC offer the LLD to law graduates, and the PhD to other graduates researching a legal-related topic). In order to obtain the degree, the student will complete a thesis under the guidance of a supervisor, after completion of a module in research methodology, the submission of a research proposal and an oral examination. The thesis will demonstrate evidence of in-depth independent research and understanding of the topic, and constitute an original scientific contribution. Admission is usually on the basis of an LLM, and in some cases an LLB.\n\nIn Sweden, the Doctor of Laws (LLD) is the highest academic degree in law. It is a research degree, which combines 240 credit hours (or equivalent of four full-time years of work). Candidates have the option to complete a dissertation or a monograph of a series of published articles. Although not required to practice law, the LLD is a prerequisite for an academic career.\n\nIn the UK, the degree of Doctor of Laws is a higher doctorate, ranking above the Ph.D., awarded upon submission of a portfolio of advanced research. It is also often awarded \"honoris causa\" to public figures (typically those associated with politics or the law) whom the university wishes to honour. In most British universities, the degree is styled \"Doctor of Laws\" and abbreviated LL. D.; however, some universities award instead the degree of Doctor of Civil Law, abbreviated DCL.\n\nIn former years, Doctors of Law were a distinct form of lawyer who were empowered to act as advocates in civil law courts. The Doctors had their own Society called Doctors' Commons, but following reforms in the nineteenth century their exclusive rights of audience were shared with barristers and the last Doctor of Law died in 1912. Due to the possession of a Doctorate, the Doctors of Law had precedence equal to that of a Serjeant-at-Law and for this reason the convention remains that advocates holding junior doctorates (such as Doctors of Philosophy) should not be addressed as \"doctor\" in an English court.\n\nIn 1953, a case was brought under long-dormant law in the High Court of Chivalry. The opening arguments in that case were by George Drewry Squibb who argued, to the satisfaction of the court, that since the modern class of Doctors of Laws were no longer trained as advocates, their role must necessarily be performed by barristers. This was because Victorian reforms, which had unified the other classes of court attorney into the single profession of Barrister, had overlooked the Doctors of Law.\n\nIn the United States, the most common Doctor of Law degree is the Juris Doctor (or Doctor of Jurisprudence), abbreviated as J.D. It is the professional degree for lawyers, having replaced the Bachelor of Laws in the 20th century after law schools began to require a Bachelor's degree before admission to a J.D. program to study law for three years. A research dissertation is not required for the J.D., but the American Bar Association issued a Council Statement stating that the J.D. should be considered equivalent to the Ph.D. for educational employment purposes. In recent years, some universities also have developed other new interdisciplinary professional doctorates that may combine law and other specialized or applied fields. One example of this is Northeastern University's Doctor of Law and Policy (D.L.P.) degree.\n\nAdditionally, other universities award a higher postdoctoral research degree in law, the Doctor of Juridical Science (or Scientiae Juridicae Doctor), abbreviated as S.J.D. or D.J.S. Applicants for S.J.D. programs must first earn a J.D., and some programs require both a J.D. and an LL.M. before admission. Similar to the Ph.D., the S.J.D. is a research doctorate and has been described as the \"highest degree in law\" by the University of Virginia, as well as the \"terminal degree in law\" by Indiana University and Harvard Law School. It has also been called the \"most advanced law degree\" by Yale Law School, Georgetown Law, New York University, and Stanford University. The University of Connecticut School of Law explains that this specific degree is \"intended for individuals who have demonstrated evidence of superior scholarly potential.\"\n\nThe National Association of Legal Professionals states that the S.J.D./D.J.S. is \"the most advanced or terminal law degree that would follow the earning of the LL.M. and J.D. degrees.\" It typically requires three to five years to complete, and requires an advanced study in law as a scientific discipline and a dissertation, which serves as an original contribution to the scholarly field of law. \n\nAs with most other countries, in the United States the Legum Doctor (LL.D.), also colloquially known in English as Doctorate of Laws, is granted only as an honorary degree.\n"}
{"id": "22129252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22129252", "title": "Erika (law)", "text": "Erika (law)\n\nThe Erika legislative packages of the European Union are maritime laws intended to improve safety in the shipping industry and thereby reduce environmental damage to the [ocean]s.\n\nThe packages are named after the oil tanker \"Erika\", which broke apart in a storm in the Bay of Biscay off the coast of France in 1999, spilling over 10,000 tonnes of heavy fuel oil, polluting of coastline. This incident prompted the EU to pass the first two measures addressing maritime safety. The third package was spurred in part by the 2002 sinking of the oil tanker \"Prestige\" off the coasts of Spain and France. That accident, the largest environmental disaster in Spain's history, was caused in part because Spanish authorities denied the distressed vessel entry to a safe harbour. European Council officials claim that the \"Prestige\" disaster would not have been possible if the first two Erika packages had been fully implemented and enforced at the time.\n\nThe Erika packages comprise modifications of the existing legislation (Erika I), innovations in the EU law (Erika II), and integrate international standards with the Community legislation (Erika III). The laws reinforce certification requirements for shipping and establish inspection and verification controls. They also imply greater responsibilities for the shipping companies. Each EU country was required to install appropriate authorities and new or reinforced methods of control.\n\nIn March 2000, the European Commission presented three proposals for \"immediate actions\" to modify the standards in force relating to tankers and ships transporting dangerous or polluting material. These regulations entered into force on 22 July 2003.\n\nThe first proposal amended Directive 95/21/EC to control the entry of ships into EU ports. Ships older than 15 years that have been detained more than twice in the previous two years are added to a \"blacklist\" published by the Commission, and are denied entry to any EU port. As ships get older, they are subject to increasing levels of inspection. Inspections must target one of the ballast tanks. Ships are required to communicate certain information before entering ports to facilitate inspection.\n\nThe second proposal, related to Directive 2001/105/EC, more strictly monitors the classification societies that inspect ship quality on behalf of EU member states. It places more stringent criteria on the societies, and gives the Commission the right to suspend or withdraw recognition from socieities that fail to comply with the Directive using a simplified procedure.\n\nThe last proposal speeds up the replacement of single-hull oil tankers with double-hull designs, which are less likely to leak. , single-hull crude oil tankers of 20,000 tons deadweight, or product carriers of 30,000 tons deadweight, are banned from the ports and internal waters of EU member states. Single-hull oil tankers of both types of 600 tons deadweight or more will be banned by 2015, or when they reach 25 to 30 years of age depending upon the tanker's regulatory status.\n\nThe European Union Directives required member states to enact national laws enabling these rules by 22 July 2003. As of 25 July 2003, only Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom had done so, leading the European Commission to initiate legal proceedings against 10 other member states that had failed to do so.\n\nIn June 2004, France was found to have failed to fulfil its inspection duties under Erika I by the European Court of Justice. France blamed the failure on personnel shortages.\n\nFollowing the first series of regulations, the Commission proposed a second set of legislation consisting of one Directive and two Regulations. These measures were intended to bring lasting improvements in the protection of European waters against accidents at sea and marine pollution.\n\nDirective 2002/59/EC established a maritime-vessel monitoring, control, and information system. Because 90 percent of the EU's external trade is seaborne, and the ocean trade routes with Europe have notable geographic chokepoints like the Strait of Dover and the Strait of Gibraltar, heavy oceangoing traffic can occur, increasing the risk of an environmental accident. Therefore, a traffic monitoring and control system reduces the risk of accidents.\n\nAll ships of 300 gross tonnage and upwards, regardless of cargo, are covered. Exceptions are made for warships; fishing vessels, traditional ships, and recreational craft less than in length, and bunkers below 5,000 tons.\n\nShips bound for EU ports must notify the port authority 24 hours in advance, when feasible. Ships must have an Automatic Identification System (AIS) and a Voyage Data Recorder (VDR) system (a \"black box\" for ships, used for accident investigations).\n\nDangerous or polluting goods on board a ship must be declared by the shipper to the master or operator of the vessel, who must then in turn provide the information to the authorities. The master of a ship is required to immediately report any incident or accident affecting the safety of the ship or other shipping, any sightings of polluting materials or drifting containers, and any situation liable to lead to pollution of EU waters or shores.\n\nIn poor weather, ships may be prevented from leaving port. EU member states are required to provide places of refuge for ships in distress.\n\nA proposed regulation would set up the COPE Fund, a compensation fund for victims of oil spills in European waters. The fund would compensate victims with justified claims that exceed the international regieme's compensation limit of 200 million Euros. The fund's compensation limit is . It is proportionally financed by European businesses that receive more than 150,000 tonnes of crude oil and heavy fuel per year.\n\nThis regulation also provides financial penalties for those found guilty of grossly negiligent behaviour in the transport of oil by sea.\n\nRegulation (EC) No 1406/2002 created the European Maritime Safety Agency. The agency was created \"to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution by ships in the Community.\"\n\nThe third and final maritime safety package addressed civil liability and flag states. The \"Prestige\" oil spill showed that the existing regulations were inadequate, according to the Parliament member that guided the legislation. \"We could have avoided the \"Prestige\" oil spill,\" said Loyola de Palacio, vice-president in charge of Transport and Energy, claiming that the spill would not have happened if the European Commission's Erika I and II proposals had been fully adopted and implemented.\n\nThe Commission proposed the package on 23 November 2005. The European Parliament adopted the package on 11 March 2009. The laws entered into force on 17 June 2009, although the directives must then be implemented by the domestic laws of the member states before they become effective.\n\nDirective 2009/21/EC requires that the flags of all EU countries have good standing, and not be on the black or grey list established by the Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control. It also codifies the International Maritime Organization's flag-state audit scheme into law.\n\nThe existing directive covering classification societies was split into Regulation (EC) 391/2009 (containing a recognition scheme, obligations, and penalties) and Directive 2009/15/EC (governing relations between EU countries and recognised classification societies).\n\nThe societies must set up an independent joint body to certify their quality-management systems. Organizations can be fined, or have their recognition withdrawn, if they fail to do their job properly. Approved societies must co-operate, recognising each other's classification certificates when the relevant regulations are equivalent.\n\nDirective 2009/16/EC reformed the EU's Port State Control scheme. All ships calling on EU ports must be inspected, even if they only rarely visit the EU. A risk profile is established for each ship, based on its type, age, flag, company history, and detainment history. Depending on the risk profile, ships may be inspected as often as every six months, or as infrequently as every three years. Substandard ships are subject to a mandatory minimum ban period, and repeat offenders may be permanently banned. This provision was controversial, with some member states of the EU arguing that the costs would be too great. All five Maltese ministers of the European Parliament voted against the measures; the \"Erika\", the vessel whose oil spill spurred the creation of these laws, was a Maltese-flagged vessel.\n\nThe directive also establishes a blacklist of companies operating substandard ships, published under the Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control.\n\nIncreased qualification and training requirements for Port State Control inspectors are also included in the directive.\n\nErika II's traffic-monitoring requirements were amended by Directive 2009/17/EC, enhancing the traffic monitoring requirements. The directive sets SafeSeaNet as the standard maritime data exchange system for the EU, and establishes a European center to collect identification data and monitor shipping.\n\nThe \"place of refuge\" provision of the original directive was revised with more detailed rules, in response to the \"Prestige\" spill.\n\nUnder the amendments, all fishing vessels over in length will eventually be equipped with AIS.\n\nThe amendments also provide for information and prevention measures when ice formation places shipping at risk.\n\nDirective 2009/18/EC provides guidelines for technical investigations and dissemination of \"lessons learnt\" following accidents at sea. It is based on the International Maritime Organization's existing code requirements, giving the principles of that code the force of law. With this directive, maritime accidents now have rules about technical investigations similar to those for civil-aviation and railway accidents.\n\nA modern and uniform set of rules for compensating passengers who are the victim of an accident at sea was established by Regulation (EC) No 392/2009. It extends the IMO's Athens Convention, which was already part of EU law.\n\nIn the case of sinking, collision, or shipwreck, victims no longer have to prove the carrier was at fault, and may receive up to in damages as set by a judge. However, for accidental injuries like slips and falls, the victim must still prove fault. All carriers must be insured, and victims may apply directly to the insurance company for compensation. Compensation for lost or damaged luggage is set at .\n\nThese improvements will take effect by 2013, at which time all Europeans travelling between countries will enjoy these protections. The regulation will eventually be extended to domestic travel as well.\n\nThis regulation was initially opposed by some member states.\n\nBefore Directive 2009/20/EC was enacted, there was no legal requirement for European shipowners to carry insurance against damage to third parties caused by their ships. International law does not require such insurance. The directive requires European-flagged ships to carry coverage consistent with the International Maritime Organization's 1996 Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims (LLMC 1996) by 1 January 2012.\n\nThe trade association BIMCO called this provision \"virtually toothless\", noting that it generally reflects the current insurance regime.\n"}
{"id": "29153184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29153184", "title": "Federal Rules Decisions", "text": "Federal Rules Decisions\n\nFederal Rules Decisions is a case law reporter in the United States that is published by West Publishing as part of the National Reporter System. The \"Federal Rules Decisions\" series publishes decisions of the United States district courts involving the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, and Federal Rules of Evidence that are not published in the Federal Supplement.\n"}
{"id": "11632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11632", "title": "Food and Drug Administration", "text": "Food and Drug Administration\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration (FDA or USFDA) is a federal agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, one of the United States federal executive departments. The FDA is responsible for protecting and promoting public health through the control and supervision of food safety, tobacco products, dietary supplements, prescription and over-the-counter pharmaceutical drugs (medications), vaccines, biopharmaceuticals, blood transfusions, medical devices, electromagnetic radiation emitting devices (ERED), cosmetics, animal foods & feed and veterinary products. As of 2017, 3/4th of the FDA budget (approximately $700 million) is funded by the pharmaceutical companies due to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act.\n\nThe FDA was empowered by the United States Congress to enforce the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which serves as the primary focus for the Agency; the FDA also enforces other laws, notably Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and associated regulations, many of which are not directly related to food or drugs. These include regulating lasers, cellular phones, condoms and control of disease on products ranging from certain household pets to sperm donation for assisted reproduction.\n\nThe FDA is led by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Commissioner reports to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Scott Gottlieb, M.D. is the current commissioner, who took over in May 2017.\n\nThe FDA has its headquarters in unincorporated White Oak, Maryland. The agency also has 223 field offices and 13 laboratories located throughout the 50 states, the United States Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. In 2008, the FDA began to post employees to foreign countries, including China, India, Costa Rica, Chile, Belgium, and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn recent years, the agency began undertaking a large-scale effort to consolidate its 25 operations in the Washington metropolitan area, moving from its main headquarters in Rockville and several fragmented office buildings to the former site of the Naval Ordnance Laboratory in the White Oak area of Silver Spring, Maryland. The site was renamed from the White Oak Naval Surface Warfare Center to the Federal Research Center at White Oak. The first building, the Life Sciences Laboratory, was dedicated and opened with 104 employees on the campus in December 2003. Only one original building from the naval facility was kept. All other buildings are new construction. The project is slated to be completed by 2017, assuming future Congressional funding \n\nWhile most of the Centers are located in the Washington, D.C. area as part of the Headquarters divisions, two offices – the Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA) and the Office of Criminal Investigations (OCI) – are primarily field offices with a workforce spread across the country.\n\nThe Office of Regulatory Affairs is considered the \"eyes and ears\" of the agency, conducting the vast majority of the FDA's work in the field. Consumer Safety Officers, more commonly called Investigators, are the individuals who inspect production and warehousing facilities, investigate complaints, illnesses, or outbreaks, and review documentation in the case of medical devices, drugs, biological products, and other items where it may be difficult to conduct a physical examination or take a physical sample of the product.\n\nThe Office of Regulatory Affairs is divided into five regions, which are further divided into 20 districts. Districts are based roughly on the geographic divisions of the federal court system. Each district comprises a main district office and a number of Resident Posts, which are FDA remote offices that serve a particular geographic area. ORA also includes the Agency's network of regulatory laboratories, which analyze any physical samples taken. Though samples are usually food-related, some laboratories are equipped to analyze drugs, cosmetics, and radiation-emitting devices.\n\nThe Office of Criminal Investigations was established in 1991 to investigate criminal cases. Unlike ORA Investigators, OCI Special Agents are armed, and don't focus on technical aspects of the regulated industries. OCI agents pursue and develop cases where individuals and companies have committed criminal actions, such as fraudulent claims, or knowingly and willfully shipping known adulterated goods in interstate commerce. In many cases, OCI pursues cases involving Title 18 violations (e.g., conspiracy, false statements, wire fraud, mail fraud), in addition to prohibited acts as defined in Chapter III of the FD&C Act. OCI Special Agents often come from other criminal investigations backgrounds, and work closely with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Assistant Attorney General, and even Interpol. OCI receives cases from a variety of sources—including ORA, local agencies, and the FBI—and works with ORA Investigators to help develop the technical and science-based aspects of a case. OCI is a smaller branch, comprising about 200 agents nationwide.\n\nThe FDA frequently works with other federal agencies, including the Department of Agriculture, Drug Enforcement Administration, Customs and Border Protection, and Consumer Product Safety Commission. Often local and state government agencies also work with the FDA to provide regulatory inspections and enforcement action.\n\nThe FDA regulates more than US$ worth of consumer goods, about 25% of consumer expenditures in the United States. This includes $466 billion in food sales, $275 billion in drugs, $60 billion in cosmetics and $18 billion in vitamin supplements. Much of these expenditures are for goods imported into the United States; the FDA is responsible for monitoring imports.\n\nThe FDA's federal budget request for fiscal year (FY) 2012 totaled $4.36 billion, while the proposed 2014 budget is $4.7 billion. About $2 billion of this budget is generated by user fees. Pharmaceutical firms pay the majority of these fees, which are used to expedite drug reviews. The FDA's federal budget request for fiscal year (FY) 2008 (October 2007 through September 2008) totaled $2.1 billion, a $105.8 million increase from what it received for fiscal year 2007.\n\nIn February 2008, the FDA announced that the Bush Administration's FY 2009 budget request for the agency was just under $2.4 billion: $1.77 billion in budget authority (federal funding) and $628 million in user fees. The requested budget authority was an increase of $50.7 million more than the FY 2008 funding – about a three percent increase. In June 2008, Congress gave the agency an emergency appropriation of $150 million for FY 2008 and another $150 million.\n\nMost federal laws concerning the FDA are part of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, (first passed in 1938 and extensively amended since) and are codified in Title 21, Chapter 9 of the United States Code. Other significant laws enforced by the FDA include the Public Health Service Act, parts of the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Anti-Tampering Act, as well as many others. In many cases these responsibilities are shared with other federal agencies.\n\nAs of 2015, the agency regulates more than $1 trillion in consumer products, including:\nThe programs for safety regulation vary widely by the type of product, its potential risks, and the regulatory powers granted to the agency. For example, the FDA regulates almost every facet of prescription drugs, including testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, efficacy, and safety—yet FDA regulation of cosmetics focuses primarily on labeling and safety. The FDA regulates most products with a set of published standards enforced by a modest number of facility inspections. Inspection observations are documented on Form 483.\n\nIn June 2018, the FDA released a statement regarding new guidelines to help food and drug manufacturers \"implement protections against potential attacks on the U.S. food supply\". One of the new guidelines includes the Intentional Adulteration (IA) rule, which requires strategies and procedures by the food industry to reduce the risk of compromise in facilities and processes that are significantly vulnerable.\n\nOn February 4, 2011, Prime Minister of Canada Stephen Harper and United States President Barack Obama issued a \"Declaration on a Shared Vision for Perimeter Security and Economic Competitiveness\" and announced the creation of the Canada-United States Regulatory Cooperation Council (RCC) \"to increase regulatory transparency and coordination between the two countries\".\n\nHealth Canada and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under the RCC mandate, undertook the \"first of its kind\" initiative by selecting \"as its first area of alignment common cold indications for certain over-the-counter antihistamine ingredients (GC 2013-01-10).\"\n\nThe regulation of food and dietary supplements by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is governed by various statutes enacted by the United States Congress and interpreted by the FDA. Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (\"the Act\") and accompanying legislation, the FDA has authority to oversee the quality of substances sold as food in the United States, and to monitor claims made in the labeling about both the composition and the health benefits of foods.\n\nThe FDA subdivides substances that it regulates as food into various categories—including foods, food additives, added substances (man-made substances that are not intentionally introduced into food, but nevertheless end up in it), and dietary supplements. Specific standards the FDA exercises differ from one category to the next. Furthermore, legislation had granted the FDA a variety of means to address violations of standards for a given substance category.\n\nThe FDA does not approve applied coatings used in the food processing industry. There is no review process to approve the composition of nonstick coatings, nor does the FDA inspect or test these materials. Through their governing of processes, however, the FDA does have a set of regulations that cover the formulation, manufacturing, and use of nonstick coatings. Hence, materials like Polytetrafluoroethylene (Teflon) are not, and cannot be, considered as FDA Approved, rather, they are \"FDA Compliant\" or \"FDA Acceptable\".\n\nThe Center for Drug Evaluation and Research uses different requirements for the three main drug product types: new drugs, generic drugs, and over-the-counter drugs. A drug is considered \"new\" if it is made by a different manufacturer, uses different excipients or inactive ingredients, is used for a different purpose, or undergoes any substantial change. The most rigorous requirements apply to \"new molecular entities\": drugs that are not based on existing medications.\n\nNew drugs receive extensive scrutiny before FDA approval in a process called a new drug application (NDA). Critics, however, argue that the FDA standards are not sufficiently rigorous, allowing unsafe or ineffective drugs to be approved. New drugs are available only by prescription by default. A change to over-the-counter (OTC) status is a separate process, and the drug must be approved through an NDA first. A drug that is approved is said to be \"safe and effective when used as directed\".\n\nSome very rare limited exceptions to this multi-step process involving animal testing and controlled clinical trials can be granted out of compassionate use protocols, as was the case during the 2015 Ebola epidemic with the use, by prescription and authorization, of ZMapp and other experimental treatments, and for new drugs that can be used to treat debilitating and/or very rare conditions for which no existing remedies or drugs are satisfactory, or where there has not been an advance in a long period of time. The studies are progressively longer, gradually adding more individuals as they progress from stage I to stage III, normally over a period of years, and normally involve drug companies, the government and its laboratories, and often medical schools and hospitals and clinics. However, any exceptions to the aforementioned process are subject to strict review and scrutiny and conditions, and are only given if a substantial amount of research and at least some preliminary human testing has shown that they are believed to be somewhat safe and possibly effective.\n\nThe FDA's Office of Prescription Drug Promotion reviews and regulates prescription drug advertising and promotion through surveillance activities and issuance of enforcement letters to pharmaceutical manufacturers. Advertising and promotion for over-the-counter drugs is regulated by the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nThe drug advertising regulation contains two broad requirements: (1) a company may advertise or promote a drug only for the specific indication or medical use for which it was approved by FDA. Also, an advertisement must contain a \"fair balance\" between the benefits and the risks (side effects) of a drug.\n\nThe term off-label refers to drug usage for indications other than those approved by the FDA.\n\nAfter NDA approval, the sponsor must review and report to the FDA every patient adverse drug experience it learns of. They must report unexpected serious and fatal adverse drug events within 15 days, and other events on a quarterly basis.\nThe FDA also receives directly adverse drug event reports through its MedWatch program. These reports are called \"spontaneous reports\" because reporting by consumers and health professionals is voluntary.\n\nWhile this remains the primary tool of postmarket safety surveillance, FDA requirements for postmarketing risk management are increasing.\nAs a condition of approval, a sponsor may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, called Phase IV trials.\nIn some cases, the FDA requires risk management plans (\"Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy\" or \"REMS\") for some drugs that require actions to be taken to ensure that the drug is used safely. For example, thalidomide can cause birth defects but has uses that outweigh the risks if men and women taking the drugs do not conceive a child; a REMS program for thalidomide mandates an auditable process to ensure that people taking the drug take action to avoid pregnancy; many opioid drugs have REMS programs to avoid addiction and diversion of drugs. There is also a REMS program called iPLEDGE for the drug, isotretinoin.\n\nGeneric drugs are chemical equivalents of name-brand drugs whose patents have expired. In general, they are less expensive than their name brand counterparts, are manufactured and marketed by other companies and, in the 1990s, accounted for about a third of all prescriptions written in the United States.\nFor approval of a generic drug, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires scientific evidence that the generic drug is interchangeable with or therapeutically equivalent to the originally approved drug. This is called an \"ANDA\" (Abbreviated New Drug Application). As of 2012 80% of all FDA approved drugs are available in generic form.\n\nIn 1989, a major scandal erupted involving the procedures used by the FDA to approve generic drugs for sale to the public. Charges of corruption in generic drug approval first emerged in 1988, in the course of an extensive congressional investigation into the FDA. The oversight subcommitee of the United States House Energy and Commerce Committee resulted from a complaint brought against the FDA by Mylan Laboratories Inc. of Pittsburgh. When its application to manufacture generics were subjected to repeated delays by the FDA, Mylan, convinced that it was being discriminated against, soon began its own private investigation of the agency in 1987. Mylan eventually filed suit against two former FDA employees and four drug-manufacturing companies, charging that corruption within the federal agency resulted in racketeering and in violations of antitrust law. \"The order in which new generic drugs were approved was set by the FDA employees even before drug manufacturers submitted applications\" and, according to Mylan, this illegal procedure was followed to give preferential treatment to certain companies. During the summer of 1989, three FDA officials (Charles Y. Chang, David J. Brancato, Walter Kletch) pleaded guilty to criminal charges of accepting bribes from generic drugs makers, and two companies (Par Pharmaceutical and its subsidiary Quad Pharmaceuticals) pleaded guilty to giving bribes.\n\nFurthermore, it was discovered that several manufacturers had falsified data submitted in seeking FDA authorization to market certain generic drugs. Vitarine Pharmaceuticals of New York, which sought approval of a generic version of the drug Dyazide, a medication for high blood pressure, submitted Dyazide, rather than its generic version, for the FDA tests. In April 1989, the FDA investigated 11 manufacturers for irregularities; and later brought that number up to 13. Dozens of drugs were eventually suspended or recalled by manufacturers. In the early 1990s, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed securities fraud charges against the Bolar Pharmaceutical Company, a major generic manufacturer based in Long Island, New York.\n\nOver-the-counter (OTC) drugs like aspirin are drugs and combinations that do not require a doctor's prescription.\nThe FDA has a list of approximately 800 approved ingredients that are combined in various ways to create more than 100,000 OTC drug products.\nMany OTC drug ingredients had been previously approved prescription drugs now deemed safe enough for use without a medical practitioner's supervision like ibuprofen.\n\nIn 2014, the FDA added an Ebola treatment being developed by Canadian pharmaceutical company Tekmira to the Fast Track program, but halted the phase 1 trials in July pending the receipt of more information about how the drug works. This is seen as increasingly important in the face of a major outbreak of the disease in West Africa that began in late March 2014 and continued .\n\nThe Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research is the branch of the FDA responsible for ensuring the safety and efficacy of biological therapeutic agents. These include blood and blood products, vaccines, allergenics, cell and tissue-based products, and gene therapy products. New biologics are required to go through a premarket approval process called a Biologics License Application (BLA), similar to that for drugs.\n\nThe original authority for government regulation of biological products was established by the 1902 Biologics Control Act, with additional authority established by the 1944 Public Health Service Act. Along with these Acts, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act applies to all biologic products, as well. Originally, the entity responsible for regulation of biological products resided under the National Institutes of Health; this authority was transferred to the FDA in 1972.\n\nThe Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) is the branch of the FDA responsible for the premarket approval of all medical devices, as well as overseeing the manufacturing, performance and safety of these devices. The definition of a medical device is given in the FD&C Act, and it includes products from the simple toothbrush to complex devices such as implantable neurostimulators. CDRH also oversees the safety performance of non-medical devices that emit certain types of electromagnetic radiation. Examples of CDRH-regulated devices include cellular phones, airport baggage screening equipment, television receivers, microwave ovens, tanning booths, and laser products.\n\nCDRH regulatory powers include the authority to require certain technical reports from the manufacturers or importers of regulated products, to require that radiation-emitting products meet mandatory safety performance standards, to declare regulated products defective, and to order the recall of defective or noncompliant products. CDRH also conducts limited amounts of direct product testing.\n\nClearance requests are for medical devices that prove they are \"substantially equivalent\" to the predicate devices already on the market. Approved requests are for items that are new or substantially different and need to demonstrate \"safety and efficacy\", for example it may be inspected for safety in case of new toxic hazards. Both aspects need to be proved or provided by the submitter to ensure proper procedures are followed.\n\nCosmetics are regulated by the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, the same branch of the FDA that regulates food. Cosmetic products are not, in general, subject to premarket approval by the FDA unless they make \"structure or function claims\" that make them into drugs (see Cosmeceutical). However, all color additives must be specifically FDA approved before manufacturers can include them in cosmetic products sold in the U.S. The FDA regulates cosmetics labeling, and cosmetics that have not been safety tested must bear a warning to that effect.\n\nThough the cosmetic industry is predominantly responsible in ensuring the safety of its products, the FDA also has the power to intervene when necessary to protect the public but in general does not require pre-market approval or testing. Companies are required to place a warning note on their products if they have not been tested. Experts in cosmetic ingredient reviews also play a role in monitoring safety through influence on the use of ingredients, but also lack legal authority. Overall the organization has reviewed about 1,200 ingredients and has suggested that several hundred be restricted, but there is no standard or systemic method for reviewing chemicals for safety and a clear definition of what is meant by 'safety' so that all chemicals are tested on the same basis.\n\nThe Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) is the branch of the FDA that regulates food additives and drugs that are given to animals. CVM does not regulate vaccines for animals; these are handled by the United States Department of Agriculture.\n\nCVM's primary focus is on medications that are used in food animals and ensuring that they do not affect the human food supply. The FDA's requirements to prevent the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy are also administered by CVM through inspections of feed manufacturers.\n\nSince the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act became law in 2009, the FDA also has had the authority to regulate tobacco products.\n\nIn 2009, Congress passed a law requiring color warnings on cigarette packages and on printed advertising, in addition to text warnings from the U.S. Surgeon General.\n\nThe nine new graphic warning labels were announced by the FDA in June 2011 and were scheduled to be required to appear on packaging by September 2012. The implementation date is uncertain, due to ongoing proceedings in the case of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard, Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company Inc. have filed suit in Washington, D.C. federal court claiming that the graphic labels are an unconstitutional way of forcing tobacco companies to engage in anti-smoking advocacy on the government's behalf.\n\nA First Amendment lawyer, Floyd Abrams, is representing the tobacco companies in the case, contending requiring graphic warning labels on a lawful product cannot withstand constitutional scrutiny. The Association of National Advertisers and the American Advertising Federation have also filed a brief in the suit, arguing that the labels infringe on commercial free speech and could lead to further government intrusion if left unchallenged. In November 2011, Federal judge Richard Leon of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia temporarily halted the new labels, likely delaying the requirement that tobacco companies display the labels. The U.S. Supreme Court ultimately could decide the matter.\n\nIn July 2017, the FDA announced a plan that would reduce the current levels of nicotine permitted in tobacco cigarettes.\n\nWith acceptance of premarket notification 510(k) k033391 in January 2004, the FDA granted Dr. Ronald Sherman permission to produce and market medical maggots for use in humans or other animals as a prescription medical device.\nMedical maggots represent the first living organism allowed by the Food and Drug Administration for production and marketing as a prescription medical device.\n\nIn June 2004, the FDA cleared \"Hirudo medicinalis\" (medicinal leeches) as the second living organism to be used as a medical device.\n\nThe FDA also requires milk to be pasteurized to remove bacteria.\n\nIn addition to its regulatory functions, the FDA carries out research and development activities to develop technology and standards that support its regulatory role, with the objective of resolving scientific and technical challenges before they become impediments. The FDA's research efforts include the areas of biologics, medical devices, drugs, women's health, toxicology, food safety and applied nutrition, and veterinary medicine.\n\nThe FDA has collected a large amount of data through decades. In March 2013, OpenFDA was created to enable easy access of the data for the public.\n\nUp until the 20th century, there were few federal laws regulating the contents and sale of domestically produced food and pharmaceuticals, with one exception being the short-lived Vaccine Act of 1813. The history of the FDA can be traced to the latter part of the 19th century and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Division of Chemistry, later its Bureau of Chemistry. Under Harvey Washington Wiley, appointed chief chemist in 1883, the Division began conducting research into the adulteration and misbranding of food and drugs on the American market. Wiley's advocacy came at a time when the public had become aroused to hazards in the marketplace by muckraking journalists like Upton Sinclair, and became part of a general trend for increased federal regulations in matters pertinent to public safety during the Progressive Era. The 1902 Biologics Control Act was put in place after a diphtheria antitoxin—derived from tetanus-contaminated serum—was used to produce a vaccine that caused the deaths of thirteen children in St. Louis, Missouri. The serum was originally collected from a horse named Jim, who had contracted tetanus.\n\nIn June 1906, President Theodore Roosevelt signed into law the Pure Food and Drug Act, also known as the \"Wiley Act\" after its chief advocate. The Act prohibited, under penalty of seizure of goods, the interstate transport of food that had been \"adulterated\". The act applied similar penalties to the interstate marketing of \"adulterated\" drugs, in which the \"standard of strength, quality, or purity\" of the active ingredient was not either stated clearly on the label or listed in the \"United States Pharmacopoeia\" or the \"National Formulary.\"\n\nThe responsibility for examining food and drugs for such \"adulteration\" or \"misbranding\" was given to Wiley's USDA Bureau of Chemistry. Wiley used these new regulatory powers to pursue an aggressive campaign against the manufacturers of foods with chemical additives, but the Chemistry Bureau's authority was soon checked by judicial decisions, which narrowly defined the bureau's powers and set high standards for proof of fraudulent intent. In 1927, the Bureau of Chemistry's regulatory powers were reorganized under a new USDA body, the Food, Drug, and Insecticide organization. This name was shortened to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) three years later.\n\nBy the 1930s, muckraking journalists, consumer protection organizations, and federal regulators began mounting a campaign for stronger regulatory authority by publicizing a list of injurious products that had been ruled permissible under the 1906 law, including radioactive beverages, the mascara Lash lure, which caused blindness, and worthless \"cures\" for diabetes and tuberculosis. The resulting proposed law was unable to get through the Congress of the United States for five years, but was rapidly enacted into law following the public outcry over the 1937 Elixir Sulfanilamide tragedy, in which over 100 people died after using a drug formulated with a toxic, untested solvent.\n\nPresident Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed the new Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) into law on June 24, 1938. The new law significantly increased federal regulatory authority over drugs by mandating a pre-market review of the safety of all new drugs, as well as banning false therapeutic claims in drug labeling without requiring that the FDA prove fraudulent intent. Soon after passage of the 1938 Act, the FDA began to designate certain drugs as safe for use only under the supervision of a medical professional, and the category of \"prescription-only\" drugs was securely codified into law by the 1951 Durham-Humphrey Amendment. These developments confirmed extensive powers for the FDA to enforce post-marketing recalls of ineffective drugs.\n\nIn 1959, the thalidomide tragedy, in which thousands of European babies were born deformed after their mothers took that drug – marketed for treatment of nausea – during their pregnancies, Considering the US was largely spared that tragedy because Dr. Frances Oldham Kelsey of the FDA refused to authorize the medication for market, the 1962 Kefauver-Harris Amendment to the FD&C Act was passed, which represented a \"revolution\" in FDA regulatory authority. The most important change was the requirement that all new drug applications demonstrate \"substantial evidence\" of the drug's efficacy for a marketed indication, in addition to the existing requirement for pre-marketing demonstration of safety. This marked the start of the FDA approval process in its modern form.\n\nThese reforms had the effect of increasing the time, and the difficulty, required to bring a drug to market. One of the most important statutes in establishing the modern American pharmaceutical market was the 1984 Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, more commonly known as the \"Hatch-Waxman Act\" after its chief sponsors. The act extended the patent exclusivity terms of new drugs, and tied those extensions, in part, to the length of the FDA approval process for each individual drug. For generic manufacturers, the Act created a new approval mechanism, the Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA), in which the generic drug manufacturer need only demonstrate that their generic formulation has the same active ingredient, route of administration, dosage form, strength, and pharmacokinetic properties (\"bioequivalence\") as the corresponding brand-name drug. This act has been credited with in essence creating the modern generic drug industry.\n\nConcerns about the length of the drug approval process were brought to the fore early in the AIDS epidemic. In the mid- and late 1980s, ACT-UP and other HIV activist organizations accused the FDA of unnecessarily delaying the approval of medications to fight HIV and opportunistic infections. Partly in response to these criticisms, the FDA issued new rules to expedite approval of drugs for life-threatening diseases, and expanded pre-approval access to drugs for patients with limited treatment options. All of the initial drugs approved for the treatment of HIV/AIDS were approved through these accelerated approval mechanisms. Frank Young, the commissioner of the FDA was behind the Action Plan Phase II, established in August 1987 for quicker approval of AIDS medication.\n\nIn two instances, state governments have sought to legalize drugs that the FDA has not approved. Under the theory that federal law passed pursuant to Constitutional authority overrules conflicting state laws, federal authorities still claim the authority to seize, arrest, and prosecute for possession and sales of these substances, even in states where they are legal under state law. The first wave was the legalization by 27 states of laetrile in the late 1970s. This drug was used as a treatment for cancer, but scientific studies both before and after this legislative trend found it to be ineffective. The second wave concerned medical marijuana in the 1990s and 2000s. Though Virginia passed a law with limited effect in 1979, a more widespread trend began in California in 1996.\n\nWhen the FDA requested Endo Pharmaceuticals on June 8, 2017 to remove \"oxymorphone hydrochloride\" from the market, it was the first such request in FDA history.\n\nThe Critical Path Initiative is FDA's effort to stimulate and facilitate a national effort to modernize the sciences through which FDA-regulated products are developed, evaluated, and manufactured. The Initiative was launched in March 2004, with the release of a report entitled Innovation/Stagnation: Challenge and Opportunity on the Critical Path to New Medical Products.\n\nThe Compassionate Investigational New Drug program was created after \"Randall v. U.S.\" ruled in favor of Robert C. Randall in 1978, creating a program for medical marijuana.\n\nA 2006 court case, \"Abigail Alliance v. von Eschenbach\", would have forced radical changes in FDA regulation of unapproved drugs. The Abigail Alliance argued that the FDA must license drugs for use by terminally ill patients with \"desperate diagnoses,\" after they have completed Phase I testing. The case won an initial appeal in May 2006, but that decision was reversed by a March 2007 rehearing. The US Supreme Court declined to hear the case, and the final decision denied the existence of a right to unapproved medications.\n\nCritics of the FDA's regulatory power argue that the FDA takes too long to approve drugs that might ease pain and human suffering faster if brought to market sooner. The AIDS crisis created some political efforts to streamline the approval process. However, these limited reforms were targeted for AIDS drugs, not for the broader market. This has led to the call for more robust and enduring reforms that would allow patients, under the care of their doctors, access to drugs that have passed the first round of clinical trials.\n\nThe widely publicized recall of Vioxx, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug now estimated to have contributed to fatal heart attacks in thousands of Americans, played a strong role in driving a new wave of safety reforms at both the FDA rulemaking and statutory levels. Vioxx was approved by the FDA in 1999, and was initially hoped to be safer than previous NSAIDs, due to its reduced risk of intestinal tract bleeding. However, a number of pre- and post-marketing studies suggested that Vioxx might increase the risk of myocardial infarction, and this was conclusively demonstrated by results from the APPROVe trial in 2004.\n\nFaced with numerous lawsuits, the manufacturer voluntarily withdrew it from the market. The example of Vioxx has been prominent in an ongoing debate over whether new drugs should be evaluated on the basis of their absolute safety, or their safety relative to existing treatments for a given condition. In the wake of the Vioxx recall, there were widespread calls by major newspapers, medical journals, consumer advocacy organizations, lawmakers, and FDA officials for reforms in the FDA's procedures for pre- and post- market drug safety regulation.\n\nIn 2006, a congressionally requested committee was appointed by the Institute of Medicine to review pharmaceutical safety regulation in the U.S. and to issue recommendations for improvements. The committee was composed of 16 experts, including leaders in clinical medicinemedical research, economics, biostatistics, law, public policy, public health, and the allied health professions, as well as current and former executives from the pharmaceutical, hospital, and health insurance industries. The authors found major deficiencies in the current FDA system for ensuring the safety of drugs on the American market. Overall, the authors called for an increase in the regulatory powers, funding, and independence of the FDA. Some of the committee's recommendations have been incorporated into drafts of the PDUFA IV bill, which was signed into law in 2007.\n\nAs of 2011, Risk Minimization Action Plans (RiskMAPS) have been created to ensure risks of a drug never outweigh the benefits of that drug within the postmarketing period. This program requires that manufacturers design and implement periodic assessments of their programs' effectiveness. The Risk Minimization Action Plans are set in place depending on the overall level of risk a prescription drug is likely to pose to the public.\n\nPrior to the 1990s, only 20% of all drugs prescribed for children in the United States were tested for safety or efficacy in a pediatric population. This became a major concern of pediatricians as evidence accumulated that the physiological response of children to many drugs differed significantly from those drugs' effects on adults. Children react different to the drugs because of many reason, including size, weight, etc. There were several reasons that not many medical trials were done with children. For many drugs, children represented such a small proportion of the potential market, that drug manufacturers did not see such testing as cost-effective.\n\nAlso, because children were thought to be ethically restricted in their ability to give informed consent, there were increased governmental and institutional hurdles to approval of these clinical trials, as well as greater concerns about legal liability. Thus, for decades, most medicines prescribed to children in the U.S. were done so in a non-FDA-approved, \"off-label\" manner, with dosages \"extrapolated\" from adult data through body weight and body-surface-area calculations.\n\nAn initial attempt by the FDA to address this issue was the 1994 FDA Final Rule on Pediatric Labeling and Extrapolation, which allowed manufacturers to add pediatric labeling information, but required drugs that had not been tested for pediatric safety and efficacy to bear a disclaimer to that effect. However, this rule failed to motivate many drug companies to conduct additional pediatric drug trials. In 1997, the FDA proposed a rule to require pediatric drug trials from the sponsors of New Drug Applications. However, this new rule was successfully preempted in federal court as exceeding the FDA's statutory authority.\n\nWhile this debate was unfolding, Congress used the 1997 Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act to pass incentives that gave pharmaceutical manufacturers a six-month patent term extension on new drugs submitted with pediatric trial data. The act reauthorizing these provisions, the 2002 Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, allowed the FDA to request NIH-sponsored testing for pediatric drug testing, although these requests are subject to NIH funding constraints. In the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, Congress codified the FDA's authority to mandate manufacturer-sponsored pediatric drug trials for certain drugs as a \"last resort\" if incentives and publicly funded mechanisms proved inadequate.\n\nThe priority review voucher is a provision of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act (HR 3580) signed by President George W. Bush signed the bill in September 2007 which awards a transferable \"priority review voucher\" to any company that obtains approval for a treatment for a neglected tropical diseases. The system was first proposed by Duke University faculty David Ridley, Henry Grabowski, and Jeffrey Moe in their 2006 \"Health Affairs\" paper: \"Developing Drugs for Developing Countries\". In 2012, President Obama signed into law the FDA Safety and Innovation Act which includes Section 908 the \"Rare Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher Incentive Program\".\n\nSince the 1990s, many successful new drugs for the treatment of cancer, autoimmune diseases, and other conditions have been protein-based biotechnology drugs, regulated by the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. Many of these drugs are extremely expensive; for example, the anti-cancer drug Avastin costs $55,000 for a year of treatment, while the enzyme replacement therapy drug Cerezyme costs $200,000 per year, and must be taken by Gaucher's Disease patients for life.\n\nBiotechnology drugs do not have the simple, readily verifiable chemical structures of conventional drugs, and are produced through complex, often proprietary techniques, such as transgenic mammalian cell cultures. Because of these complexities, the 1984 Hatch-Waxman Act did not include biologics in the Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) process, in essence precluding the possibility of generic drug competition for biotechnology drugs. In February 2007, identical bills were introduced into the House to create an ANDA process for the approval of generic biologics, but were not passed.\n\nIn 2013, a guidance was issued to regulate mobile medical applications and protect users from their unintended use. This guidance distinguishes the apps subjected to regulation based on the marketing claims of the apps. Incorporation of the guidelines during the development phase of such app has been proposed for expedite market entry and clearance.\n\nThe FDA has regulatory oversight over a large array of products that affect the health and life of American citizens. As a result, the FDA's powers and decisions are carefully monitored by several governmental and non-governmental organizations. A $1.8 million 2006 Institute of Medicine report on pharmaceutical regulation in the U.S. found major deficiencies in the current FDA system for ensuring the safety of drugs on the American market. Overall, the authors called for an increase in the regulatory powers, funding, and independence of the FDA.\n\nNine FDA scientists appealed to then president-elect Barack Obama over pressures from management, experienced during the George W. Bush presidency, to manipulate data, including in relation to the review process for medical devices. Characterized as \"corrupted and distorted by current FDA managers, thereby placing the American people at risk,\" these concerns were also highlighted in the 2006 report on the agency as well.\n\nThe FDA has also been criticized from the opposite viewpoint, as being too tough on industry. According to an analysis published on the website of the libertarian Mercatus Center as well as published statements by economists, medical practitioners, and concerned consumers, many feel the FDA oversteps its regulatory powers and undermines small business and small farms in favor of large corporations. Three of the FDA restrictions under analysis are the permitting of new drugs and devices, the control of manufacturer speech, and the imposition of prescription requirements. The authors argue that in the increasingly complex and diverse food marketplace, the FDA is not equipped to adequately regulate or inspect food. In addition, excessive regulation is blamed for the rising costs of health care and the creation of monopolies, as potential competitors are unable to get FDA approval to enter the market to compete and keep health care costs down.\n\nHowever, in an indicator that the FDA may be too lax in their approval process, in particular for medical devices, a 2011 study by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and Paul Brown of the National Research Center for Women and Families, and Dr. Steven Nissen of the Cleveland Clinic, published in the Archives of Internal Medicine, showed that most medical devices recalled in the last five years for \"serious health problems or death\" had been previously approved by the FDA using the less stringent, and cheaper, 510(k) process. In a few cases the devices had been deemed so low-risk that they did not need FDA regulation. Of the 113 devices recalled, 35 were for cardiovascular health purposes.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\nInternational:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "495861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495861", "title": "Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure", "text": "Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure\n\nThe Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII) is a non-profit organisation based in Munich, Germany, dedicated to establishing a free market in information technology, by the removal of barriers to competition. The FFII played a key organisational role and was very active in the campaign which resulted in the rejection of the EU software patent directive in July 2005.\n\nCNET awarded the FFII the Outstanding contribution to software development award for this work, which was the result of years of research, policy, and action. After the July 2005 victory, FFII has continued to defend a free and competitive software market by working towards adequate patent systems and open standards. Currently the FFII fights against software patents lobbies, not only in Europe but also in other parts of the world.\nFFII's view is that software patents present a burden, not a benefit to society. It backs this position up citing extensive studies. FFII is a European NGO on this issue. Through its partnership with many other European organisations with the same goal, it has a reach across all nations of the EU.\n\nFFII has been active on this front since 2000 when, according to the FFII, an attempt to change the European Patent Convention to legitimise software patents failed. In 2003, it strongly but indirectly lobbied the European Parliament against the proposed Directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions.\n\nThe EuroLinux anti-software-patent petition, supported and promoted by FFII, was signed by more than 1,500 SMEs, many thousand software developers, tens of thousands of software users system administrators as well as a number of scientists, academics and economists for a total of 400,000 signatories.\nFFII organises conferences about the topic, usually in Brussels, such as the conference which took place on April 14, 2004 together with a demonstration of more than 400 people against software patents the one on November 9–10, 2004. In Karlsruhe, FFII organised a demonstration of about 1,000 people against software patents. In 2005 FFII organised an \"online demo\" supported by 1,200 web sites.\n\nThe FFII was funded originally by donations from SuSE and Infomatec. The Open Society Institute has contributed regularly, as have Red Hat, and Stichting NLnet. The historical list of donors from 1999 to 2005 can be found on the FFII web site. \nPartners in Europe include EFFI, EuroLinux, FSF Europe, and SKOSI.\n\nThe FFII exists as a mother organisation with more or less formal chapters in many countries. The national FFII chapters (such as FFII France) handle national membership, media and lobbying, while the mother organisation operates at the EU level and in countries where there is no formal FFII organisation.\n\nAs of 14 December 2013, the FFII board consists of Benjamin Henrion (President), Rene Mages (Vice president), Stephan Uhlmann (Treasurer), André Rebentisch (Secretary), Hartmut Pilch.\n\nBesides software patents, FFII promotes various campaigns aimed at disencumbering computing and software development. These include supporting author's rights and Interoperability enforcements, such as working to improve copyright regulation by providing technical analysis, amendments and voting recommendations that may influence the European Parliament.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27654780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27654780", "title": "Gaza Freedom Flotilla", "text": "Gaza Freedom Flotilla\n\nThe Gaza Freedom Flotilla, organized by the Free Gaza Movement and the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief (İHH), was carrying humanitarian aid and construction materials, with the intention of breaking the Israeli-Egyptian blockade of the Gaza Strip. In normal circumstances, aid is brought to Israel to be inspected and then transferred to Gaza.\n\nOn 31 May 2010, Israeli forces boarded the ships from speedboats and helicopters. Following resistance on one of the boats, nine activists were killed by Israeli forces. Widespread international condemnation of and reaction to the raid followed, Israel–Turkey relations were strained, and Israel subsequently eased its blockade on the Gaza Strip.\n\nThe flotilla was the Free Gaza Movement's ninth attempt to break the naval blockade imposed by Israel on the Gaza Strip. Israel proposed inspecting the cargo at the Port of Ashdod and then delivering non-blockaded goods through land crossings, but this proposal was turned down. Israeli forces then raided and seized the Gaza-bound ships in international waters of the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nFive shipments had been allowed through prior to the 2008–09 Gaza War, but all shipments following the war were blocked by Israel. This flotilla was the largest to date. An Islamic aid group from Turkey, the İHH (İnsani Yardım Vakfı) (Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief) sponsored a large passenger ship and two cargo ships.\n\nWhile the UN's official report found Israel's blockade of Gaza to be legal, another set of UN experts, reporting to the Human Rights Council, came to the opposite conclusion finding that it violated international law.\n\nThe ships of the Gaza flotilla raid comprised three passenger ships and three cargo ships:\nTwo other Free Gaza Movement ships, \"Challenger 2\" (USA flagged) and MV \"Rachel Corrie\" (Cambodia flagged) were behind the rest of the flotilla due to mechanical problems. There have been claims this was due to Israeli sabotage. \"Challenger 2\" aborted, but the \"Rachel Corrie\" continued its journey.\nThree of the flotilla ships carried only passengers and their personal belongings, while three other ships carried 10,000 tons of humanitarian aid, with an estimated value of $20 million. The cargo included food, wheelchairs, books, toys, electricity generators, operating theater equipment, medicines, medical equipment, textiles, footwear, cash, mobility scooters, sofas, and building materials, such as cement, which are prohibited under the Israeli blockade, although Israel offered to allow the cement to enter Gaza, if the flotilla were to dock in Ashdod.\n\nIsraeli news reported the flotilla to be carrying ballistic vests, gas masks, night-vision goggles, clubs, and slingshots, although the UNHRC report does not mention these items and in the Turkish Report on the Israeli attack on the Humanitarian Aid Convoy to Gaza it states that all passengers and crew as well as the cargo were searched to international standards and no weapons were found, on the ships departing from Turkey.\n\nTwo-thirds of the medicines delivered by the flotilla expired between six and fifteen months prior to the raid, and were found to be useless. Some other medicines found on the flotilla were due to expire soon. Additionally, Israel said that much of the cargo, including sensitive medical equipment, was found to have been scattered in the ship's holds, and put in piles rather than packed properly for transport, and consequently damaged. Operating theater equipment, which was supposed to be kept sterile, was carelessly wrapped. The expiring medications and sensitive equipment were kept in frozen storage in the Israeli Defense Ministry before delivery to Gaza.\n\nIn previous voyages, Free Gaza vessels carried 140 passengers in total. In this flotilla, over 600 activists were on board the Mavi Marmara alone. There were 663 passengers from 37 nations on board the flotilla. Notable people aboard the flotilla included former UN Assistant Secretary-General Denis Halliday, former U.S. Ambassador to Mauritania Edward Peck, and survivor Joe Meadors. Israeli-Arab member of Knesset Haneen Zoubi, leader of the northern branch of the Islamic Movement in Israel Raed Salah, Swedish novelist Henning Mankell, convicted hijacker Erdinç Tekir, who participated in the Black Sea hijacking, and a number of parliamentarians from European and Arab national legislatures and the European Parliament.\n\nIn Jun 2010 Assistant Secretary of State P.J. Crowley told reporters Wednesday: \"'We know that IHH representatives have met with senior Hamas officials in Turkey, Syria and Gaza over the past three years,'\" and \"'That is obviously of great concern to us.'\"\n\nThe AP was quoted on msnbc \"The Turkish Islamic charity behind a flotilla of aid ships that was raided by Israeli forces on its way to Gaza had ties to terrorism networks, including a 1999 al-Qaida plot to bomb Los Angeles International Airport, France's former top anti-terrorism judge said Wednesday.\"\n\nIn Jun 2012 it was reported that the IHH director Fehmi Bülent Yıldırım is reportedly being investigated by Turkish authorities for allegedly creating a financial partnership with al-Qaeda.\n\nIsrael questioned the humanitarian motives of flotilla organizers. Israel said it had invited the organizers to use the land crossings but they were \"less interested in bringing in aid than in promoting their radical agenda, playing into the hands of Hamas provocations. While they have wrapped themselves in a humanitarian cloak, they are engaging in political propaganda and not in pro-Palestinian aid.\"\n\nAccording to an early IDF press release, the ship carried 75 mercenaries with links to al-Qaeda and other terror organizations, who carried $10,000 apiece on their persons, The claim was never substantiated and was later withdrawn. Israel has said that the group boarded separately in a different city and went on deck under different procedures. The Turkish Customs officials and the İHH denied the allegations.\n\nThe impending arrival of the fleet was known to Israel government, military intelligence and press. Israel said that the flotilla was violating international law, but one of the flotilla's organizers, Greta Berlin, stated that \"[w]e have the right to sail from international waters into the waters of Gaza\". Israel informed the fleet that it would be redirected to the port of Ashdod and the cargo would be transferred to Gaza after undergoing a security inspection. Foreigners would be deported or, if they did not willingly agree to be deported, detained.\n\nThe flotilla organisers rejected Israel's demand, as it did not believe that Israel would transfer the cargo to Gaza, and said that, \"This mission is not about delivering humanitarian supplies, it's about breaking Israel's siege on 1.5 million Palestinians... We want to raise international awareness about the prison-like closure of Gaza and pressure the international community to review its sanctions policy and end its support for continued Israeli occupation.\"\n\nThe UNHRC fact-finding mission noted a \"certain tension between the political objectives of the flotilla and its humanitarian objectives\", which came to light \"the moment the Government of Israel made offers to allow the humanitarian aid to be delivered via Israeli ports but under the supervision of a neutral organization\". It also announced that Gaza did not have a deep sea port capable of receiving the sort of cargo ships participating in the flotilla. It concluded that \"whilst the mission is satisfied that the flotilla constituted a serious attempt to bring essential humanitarian supplies into Gaza, it seems clear that the primary objective was political, as indeed demonstrated by the decision of those on board the \"Rachel Corrie\" to reject a Government of Ireland-sponsored proposal that the cargo in that ship be allowed through Ashdod intact\".\n\nSome supporters of the flotilla said that \"a violent response from Israel will breathe new life into the Palestine solidarity movement, drawing attention to the blockade.\" Two of the activists (Ali Haydar Bengi and Ibrahim Bilgen) who died during the MV \"Mavi Marmara\" clash had previously said that they wished for martydom. On 29 May, Aljazeera broadcast footage of \"Mavi Marmara\" activists participating in a chant calling for battle against Jews.\n\nFormer U.S. Marine Kenneth O'Keefe, who was aboard the Mavi Marmara, stated that the activists knew from the outset that there would be no passive resistance. \"I knew that if the Israelis boarded that ship, it would be a disaster...You have to be an idiot to board that ship and think it will be a ship of passive resistance,\" he told Haaretz newspaper.\n\nIn a public address in October 2010 on \"Al-Aqsa TV\", Abd Al-Razzaq Al-Maqri, Head of Moroccan and Algerian Delegation to the Gaza Convoy, stated, according to a translation published by MEMRI, that \"the mujahideen have told us that they decided not to defeat the oppressive Jews by gunfire, but instead, by daggers.\"\n\nSix of the eight ships set out on 30 May 2010 from international waters off the coast of Cyprus; the remaining two were delayed by mechanical problems. \"We do not even have a jackknife here, but we will not let Israeli soldiers on board this ship,\" İHH leader Fehmi Bülent Yıldırım told reporters via a live video stream before the convoy set sail.\n\nThe government of Cyprus refused to cooperate with the Free Gaza Movement or allow activists to sail from its harbors. The Cyprus Police stated that \"anything related to the trip to Gaza is not permitted,\" and as a result remaining MPs and activists embarked instead from Famagusta in Northern Cyprus. Cypriot and Greek MPs and activists refused to embark via ports in Northern Cyprus. Having been delayed by two days, the flotilla aimed to reach Gaza on the afternoon of 31 May.\n\nThere are claims that the IDF or the Mossad may have sabotaged three of the ships before the raid. According to the National Post, Israeli deputy defense minister Matan Vilnai hinted that Israel had exhausted covert means of stalling the vessels. He said: \"Everything was considered. I don't want to elaborate beyond that, because the fact is there were not up to 10, or however many ships were [originally] planned.\" A senior IDF officer hinted to the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee that some of the vessels had been tampered with to halt them far from the Gaza or Israeli coast. According to UPI press coverage, the officer alluded to \"grey operations\" against the flotilla and said that no such action had been taken against the Mavi Marmara out of fear that the vessel might be stranded in the middle of the sea, endangering the people on board. Israel was accused of sabotaging activist ships in the past but no evidence has been found to back up these claims.\n\nThree ships – the \"Rachel Corrie\", the \"Challenger I\" and the \"Challenger II\" – suffered damage or malfunction. While the \"Challenger I\" was able to continue, the \"Challenger II\" had to turn back halfway through the journey and \"Rachel Corrie\" docked for repairs in Malta. Greta Berlin of the Free Gaza Movement said that electric wires may have been tampered with.\n\nIsraeli forces raided the flotilla on the night of 30–31 May 2010 in international waters of the Mediterranean Sea, boarding the ships using speedboats and helicopters. Nine activists were killed. Dozens of activists and seven Israeli soldiers were injured.\n\nAfter the raid, the activists were detained in Israel pending release: all were deported by 6 June. The ships were towed to Israel and those claimed by their owners were returned. The aid was delivered to Gaza under United Nations supervision on 17 June.\n\nWidespread international condemnation of and reaction to the raid followed. Various investigations were conducted, including by the United Nations, Israel and Turkey. Israel-Turkey relations were strained, and Israel subsequently eased its blockade on Gaza.\n\nAnother movement happen in Pacific region, On 15 August 2013, at 10 pm, two peace mission yachts of 15 Aboriginal and Papuan activists in support of the West Papuan independence struggle from Indonesian leave Cairns, Australia headed to the Merauke Town, southern region of Indonesia's Papua.\n\nThe Australian and West Papuan activists are set to sail to territory of West Papua without permission while Indonesian military has confirmed that they will raid them if they crossing the borders. The fleet is expected to make unauthorised landfall in West Papua in September.\n\nMeanwhile, Four West Papuan pro-independence leaders were arrested by authorities on Wednesday, in Sorong - a coastal city in the western Indonesian province of West Papua - on charges of organising a congregation pray meeting at the Marantha Church in the city.\n\nOver 2000 people had gathered at the local church to pray for the safe passage of the West Papua Freedom Flotilla, around 200 policemen surrounded the church and arrested the four leaders.\n\nIn show of global solidarity, a demonstration took place outside the Indonesian Embassy, in The Hague, calling for the safe passage of the Freedom Flotilla to West Papua. The campaigners have opened an office in the city in an effort to push for the cause of West Papua's independence and highlight the alleged human rights abuses that have taken place in West Papua since 1962.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6648195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6648195", "title": "Human Rights Act 2004", "text": "Human Rights Act 2004\n\nThe Human Rights Act 2004 is an Act of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly that recognises the fundamental human rights of individuals. It was the first of its kind in Australia, however Victoria has since passed the Victorian Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities and the Human Rights Consultation is currently deliberating on whether the federal government should adopt a human rights act.\n\nThe Act established an Australian Capital Territory Human Rights Commissioner. It also empowers the ACT Supreme Court to declare on compliance of legislation.\n\nThe Act was amended in 2005 by the \"Human Rights Commission Legislation Amendment Act 2005\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1073154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1073154", "title": "Internal sin", "text": "Internal sin\n\nInternal sin, in Christianity, is the idea that sin may be committed not only by outward deeds but also by the inner activity of the mind, quite apart from any external manifestation. Thought crimes were as old as heresy, but the Reformation's alarms received new emphasis at the Council of Trent (Session XIV, chapter. v). The session, while reiterating that all mortal sins must be confessed, singled out the unspoken ones that \"sometimes more grievously wound the soul and are more dangerous than sins which are openly committed\".\n\nThree kinds of internal sin are usually distinguished by Catholics:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191205", "title": "Ipso facto", "text": "Ipso facto\n\nbrought about by a previous action. It is a term of art used in philosophy, law, and science. An example in law is money laundering: the act is not illegal because it is an exchange but is done as a cover for something else, so the act puts the actions of an individual in question. A common English idiom with a similar meaning is \"in and of itself\". Compare also \"by itself\" and \"per se\".\n\nAside from its technical uses, it occurs frequently in literature, particularly in scholarly addenda: e.g., \"Faustus had signed his life away, and was, , incapable of repentance\" (from Christopher Marlowe, \"The Tragical History of Dr. Faustus\") or \"These prejudices are rooted in the idea that every tramp is a blackguard\" (from George Orwell, \"Down and Out in Paris and London\").\n\n denotes the automatic character of the loss of membership in a religious body by someone guilty of a specified action. Within the canon law of the Catholic Church, the phrase is more commonly used than with regard to ecclesiastical penalties such as excommunication. It indicates that the effect follows even if no verdict (in Latin, ) is pronounced by an ecclesiastical superior or tribunal.\n\n"}
{"id": "11871262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11871262", "title": "Irreparable injury", "text": "Irreparable injury\n\nAn irreparable injury is, in equity, \"the type of harm which no monetary compensation can cure or put conditions back the way they were.\" \n\nIt has traditionally been a requirement of equity that no relief can be granted unless there is irreparable injury. This requirement, commonly called the \"irreparable injury rule\", has been the subject of sustained academic criticism, especially by remedies scholar Douglas Laycock, who has argued at length that the rule does not actually explain the decisions of courts in the United States. Nevertheless, the irreparable injury rule was reaffirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court in eBay v. MercExchange, 547 U.S. 388 (2006), a case in which the Court announced a test for injunctive relief that required, among other things, that the plaintiff prove \"that it has suffered an irreparable injury\".\n\nThe general idea that there are irreparable injuries has been recognized in various jurisdictions.\n\nThe United Nations Staff Rules recognize the concept for the purpose of employment appeals.\n\nVirtually every state recognizes the concept under common law or equity, including New York Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Utah.\n\nIn addition to state law, the Federal government takes note of the purpose of an injunction as being to \"prevent irreparable damage or injury\".\n\nThe East Africa Court of Justice has noted the concept in enjoining an election in Kenya.\n\nPhilippines law notes the phrase in employment law, in a report regarding indigenous peoples, as well as in agrarian reform.\n\n"}
{"id": "2184884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2184884", "title": "Jewish political movements", "text": "Jewish political movements\n\nJewish political movements refer to the organized efforts of Jews to build their own political parties or otherwise represent their interest in politics outside the Jewish community. From the time of the siege of Jerusalem by the Romans to the foundation of Israel the Jewish people had no territory, and, until the 19th century they by-and-large were also denied equal rights in the countries in which they lived. Thus, until the 19th century effort for the emancipation of the Jews, almost all Jewish political struggles were internal, and dealt primarily with either religious issues or issues of a particular Jewish community. (See Judaism and politics.)\n\nSince Jews were excluded as outsiders throughout Europe, they were mostly shut out of politics or any sort of participation in the wider political and social sphere of the nations in which they were involved until the Enlightenment, and its Jewish counterpart, Haskalah, made popular movements possible. As long as the Jews lived in segregated communities, and as long as all avenues of social intercourse with their gentile neighbors were closed to them, the rabbi was the most influential member of the Jewish community. In addition to being a religious scholar and clergy, a rabbi also acted as a civil judge in all cases in which both parties were Jews. Rabbis sometimes had other important administrative powers, together with the community elders. The rabbinate was the highest aim of many Jewish boys, and the study of the Torah (first five books of the Bible) and the Talmud was the means of obtaining that coveted position, or one of many other important communal distinctions. Haskalah followers advocated \"coming out of the ghetto\", not just physically but also mentally and spiritually. The example of Moses Mendelssohn (1729–1786), a Prussian Jew and grandfather of the composer Felix Mendelssohn, served to lead this movement. Mendelssohn's extraordinary success as a popular philosopher and man of letters revealed hitherto unsuspected possibilities of integration and acceptance of Jews among non-Jews.\n\nThe changes caused by the Haskalah movement coincided with rising revolutionary movements throughout Europe. Despite these movements, only France, Britain, and the Netherlands had granted the Jews in their countries equal rights with gentiles after the French Revolution in 1796. Elsewhere in Europe, especially where Jews were most concentrated in Central and Eastern Europe, Jews were not granted equal rights. It was in the revolutionary atmosphere of the mid-19th century that the first true Jewish political movements would take place.\n\nDuring the early stages of Jewish emancipation movements, Jews were simply part of the general effort to achieve freedom and rights that drove popular uprisings like the Revolutions of 1848. Jewish statesmen and intellectuals like Heinrich Heine, Johann Jacoby, Gabriel Riesser, Berr Isaac Berr, and Lionel Nathan Rothschild were active with the general movement towards liberty and political freedom.\n\nStill, in the face of persistent anti-semitic incidents like the Damascus Blood Libel of 1840, and the failure of many states to emancipate the Jews, Jewish organizations started to form in order to push for the emancipation and protection of Jews. The Board of Deputies of British Jews under Moses Montefiore, the Central Consistory of Paris, and the Alliance Israelite Universelle founded by Adolphe Crémieux, all began working to assure the freedom of the Jews throughout the middle of the 19th century.\n\nFrustration with the slow pace of Jewish acceptance into European society, and a revolutionary utopianism, led to a growing interest in proto-socialist and communist movements, especially as early socialist leaders, like Saint-Simon, preached the emancipation of the Jews. Moses Hess played a role in introducing Karl Marx (who was descended from a long line of rabbis) and Friedrich Engels to historical materialism. The Jewish Ferdinand Lassalle, founded the first actual workers' party in Germany, the General German Workers' Association (which ultimately merged with other parties to become the Social Democratic Party of Germany) and made Jewish emancipation one of his goals. \n\nThe more intellectual socialist movements of the Jews in Western Europe never gathered steam as emancipation took hold. In Eastern Europe and Russia, however, the \"Bund\"the General Jewish Labor Unionfounded in 1897, became a key force in organizing Jews, and, at least initially, the major opponent of another Jewish political movement of the time, Zionism. There were other Jewish socialist parties in Russia, like the (territorialist) Zionist Socialist Workers Party and the Jewish Socialist Workers Party, which united their destinies in 1917 as the United Jewish Socialist Workers Party. Another left-wing Russian Jewish party was the Jewish Social Democratic Labour Party (Poalei Zion).\n\nThe aim of Zionism was to set up a secular state in the vicinity of the Biblical Land of Israel. Zionism, or the idea of a restored national homeland and common identity for the Jews, had already started to take shape by the mid-19th century, with Jewish thinkers such as Moses Hess whose 1862 work \"Rome and Jerusalem; The Last National Question\" argued for the Jews to settle in Palestine as a means of settling the national question. Hess proposed a socialist state in which the Jews would become agrarianised through a process of \"redemption of the soil\" which would transform the Jewish community into a \"true\" nation, in that Jews would occupy the productive layers of society rather than being an intermediary non-productive merchant class, which is how he perceived Jews in Europe. Hess, along with later thinkers such as Nahum Syrkin and Ber Borochov, is considered a founder of \"Socialist Zionism\" and Labour Zionism and one of the intellectual forebears of the kibbutz movement. Others like Rabbi Zvi Kalischer viewed a return to the Jewish homeland as the fulfillment of biblical prophecy through natural means.\nAs the 19th century wore on, the persecution of the Jews in Eastern Europe where emancipation had not occurred to the extent it did in Western Europe (or at all) increased. Starting with the state-sponsored massive anti-Jewish pogroms following the assassination of Tsar Alexander II, through the bloody pogroms of 1903 to 1906 who left thousands of Jews dead and many more wounded, continuing with the Dreyfus Affair in France in 1894, Jews were profoundly shocked to see the continuing extent of anti-Semitism from Russia to France, a country which they thought of as the home of enlightenment and liberty.\n\nIn reaction to the first, Judah Leib Pinsker published the pamphlet Auto-Emancipation on January 1, 1882. The pamphlet became influential for the \"Political Zionism\" movement. The movement was to achieve momentum under the leadership of an Austrian-Jewish journalist, Theodor Herzl, who published his pamphlet \"Der Judenstaat\" (\"The Jewish State\") in 1896. Prior to the Dreyfus Affair, Herzl had been an assimilationist, but after seeing how France treated its loyal Jewish subjects, he proposed building a separate Jewish state. In 1897 Herzl organized the First Zionist Congress in Basel, Switzerland, which founded the World Zionist Organisation (WZO) and elected Herzl as its first President. After the state's establishment Zionism, in its various forms, would become the largest Jewish political movement, although more Jews would participate in the national politics of the countries in which they resided.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1905 pogroms in Russia, the historian Simon Dubnow founded the Folkspartei (Yiddishe Folkspartay) which had some intellectual audience in Russia, then, in independent Poland and Lithuania in the 1920–1930s where it was represented as well in the Parliaments (Sejm, Seimas) as in numerous municipal councils (incl. Warsaw) till in the late 1930s. The party did not survive the Shoah, the Holocaust.\n\nThe territorialists, who had split from the Zionists after the Seventh Zionist Congress in 1905, called for creation of a sufficiently large and compact Jewish territory (or territories), not necessarily in the Land of Israel and not necessarily fully autonomous. Some territorialist leaders, such as Nachman Syrkin, supported the Socialist versions of Zionism, while some others, such as Lucien Wolf, actively opposed Zionism and promoted anti-nationalist ideas. Isaac Nachman Steinberg, one of the founders of the Freeland League, held anti-authoritarian socialist views, as well as his close friend Erich Fromm, who supported Steinberg's territorialist ideas.\n\nWhile the Jews in general played an important role in the international anarchist movements, many Jewish anarchists actively promoted Yiddish language and culture, focused on specifically Jewish issues. While most Jewish anarchists were irreligious or even vehemently anti-religious, some Jewish anarchist and anti-authoritarian thinkers, such as Martin Buber, rabbi Yehuda Ashlag, Isaac Nachman Steinberg and Gustav Landauer, were religious or religiously inclined and often referred to the Torah, Talmud and other traditional Judaic sources, claiming that anarchist ideas are deeply rooted in the Jewish tradition. The Jewish anarchists believe that in the stateless, free and diverse anarchist society the Jews would have more opportunities to express their individual and cultural autonomy. Many Jewish anarchists, while promoting universal internationalist values, had actively participated in the development of the Yiddish culture and Jewish community life. \n\nThere was some intersection between the Jewish anarchist, Folkist and Territorialist movements. For example, Isaac Nachman Steinberg, a renowned Territorialist leader, held anarchist views. Most Jewish anarchists supported anarcho-syndicalism and communist anarchism, while a few were individualist anarchists. The small contemporary anarchist movement in Israel is very active in peace and Palestinian solidarity actions.\n\nZionism continues to be the central trans-national political movement of most Jews, although it has split into a variety of branches and philosophies that span the political spectrum from left-wing to right-wing. Jews are also active in government in many of the countries in which they live, as well as in Jewish community organizations that often take political positions.\n\nIn the 20th century, Jews in Europe and the Americas traditionally tended towards the political left, and played key roles in the birth of the labor movement as well as socialism. While Diaspora Jews have also been represented in the conservative side of the political spectrum, even politically conservative Jews have tended to support pluralism more consistently than many other elements of the political right. Daniel J. Elazar connects this pluralist tendency to the fact that Jews are not expected to proselytize, and argues that whereas Christianity and Islam anticipate a single world-state, Judaism does not. This lack of a universalizing religion is combined with the fact that most Jews live as minorities in their countries, and that no central Jewish religious authority has existed for over 2,000 years. \"(See list of Jews in politics, which illustrates the diversity of Jewish political thought and of the roles Jews have played in politics.)\"\n\nThere are also a number of Jewish secular organizations at the local, national, and international levels. These organizations often play an important part in the Jewish community. Most of the largest groups, such as Hadassah and the United Jewish Communities, have an elected leadership. No one secular group represents the entire Jewish community, and there is often significant internal debate among Jews about the stances these organizations take on affairs dealing with the Jewish community as a whole, such as antisemitism and Israeli policies. In the United States and Canada today, the mainly secular United Jewish Communities (UJC), formerly known as the United Jewish Appeal (UJA), represents over 150 Jewish Federations and 400 independent communities across North America. Every major American city has its local \"Jewish Federation\", and many have sophisticated community centers and provide services, mainly health care-related. They raise record sums of money for philanthropic and humanitarian causes in North America and Israel. Other organizations such as the Anti-Defamation League, American Jewish Congress, American Jewish Committee, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Zionist Organization of America, Americans for a safe Israel, B'nai B'rith and Agudath Israel represent different segments of the American Jewish community on a variety of issues.\n\nThe 21st century has brought changes in the political leanings of Jewish communities in the diaspora. In the U.S. and Canada, the two largest Jewish diaspora communities, voters are shifting from liberal to more conservative leanings. in 2011 an Ipsos Reid exit poll of voters in the federal election of Canada found that 52 per cent of Jewish voters supported the Conservatives, 24 per cent the Liberals and 16 per cent the NDP, reflecting \" an enormous shift in voter preference among Canadian Jews.\" The shift appears to reflect an alignment with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s right-wing coalition government and its views on Israel’s security. The Jewish community in Great Britain is also leaning conservative in the 21st century as a poll published by the Jewish Chronicle in early 2015 shows. Of British Jews polled, 69% would vote for the Conservative Party, while 22% would vote for the Labour Party. This is in stark contrast to the rest of the voter population, which according to a BBC poll had Conservatives and Labor almost tied at about a third each. Jews have typically been a part of the British middle class, traditional home of the Conservative Party, though the number of Jews in working class communities of London is in decline. The main voting bloc of poorer Jews in Britain now, made up primarily of ultra-Orthodox, votes \"en masse\" for the Conservatives. Attitudes toward Israel influence the vote of three out of four of British Jews.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3830392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3830392", "title": "Joinder", "text": "Joinder\n\nIn law, a joinder is the joining of two or more legal issues together. Procedurally, a joinder allows multiple issues to be heard in one hearing or trial and is done when the issues or parties involved overlap sufficiently to make the process more efficient or more fair. It helps courts avoid hearing the same facts multiple times or seeing the same parties return to court separately for each of their legal disputes. The term is also used in the realm of contracts to describe the joining of new parties to an existing agreement.\n\nJoinder in criminal law refers to the inclusion of additional counts or additional defendants on an indictment. In English law, charges for any offence may be joined in the same indictment if those charges are founded on the same facts or form or are a part of a series of offences of the same or a similar nature. A number of defendants may be joined in the same indictment even if no single count applies to all of them if the counts are sufficiently linked. The judge retains the option to order separate trials.\n\nJoinder in civil law falls under two categories: joinder of claims and joinder of parties.\n\nJoinder of claims refers to bringing several legal claims against the same party together. In U.S. federal law, joinder of claims is governed by Rule 18 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. These rules allow claimants to consolidate all claims that they have against an individual who is already a party to the case. Claimants may bring new claims even if these new claims are not related to the claims already stated; for example, a plaintiff suing someone for breach of contract may also sue the same person for assault. The claims may be unrelated, but they may be joined if the plaintiff desires.\n\nJoinder of claims requires that the court have jurisdiction over the subject matter of each of the new claims, and that joinder of claims is never compulsory. A party who sues for breach of contract can bring his suit for assault at a later date if he chooses. However, if the claims are related to the same set of facts, the plaintiff may be barred from bringing claims later by the doctrine of res judicata, e.g. if a plaintiff sues for assault and the case is concluded, he may not later sue for battery regarding the same occurrence.\n\nJoinder of parties also falls into two categories: permissive joinder and compulsory joinder.\n\nFederal Rule of Civil Procedure No. 20 addresses permissive joinder. Permissive joinder allows multiple plaintiffs to join in an action if each of their claims arise from the same transaction or occurrence, and if there is a common question of law or fact relating to all plaintiffs' claims. For example, several landowners may join together in suing a factory for environmental runoff onto their property. Permissive joinder is also appropriate to join multiple defendants, as long as the same considerations as for joining multiple plaintiffs are met. This often occurs in lawsuits regarding faulty products; the plaintiff will sue the manufacturer of the final product and the manufacturers of any constituent parts. The court must have personal jurisdiction over every defendant joined in the action.\n\nCompulsory joinder is governed by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 19, which makes it mandatory that some parties be joined. Parties that must be joined are those necessary and indispensable to the litigation. The rule includes several reasons why this might be true, including if that party has an interest in the dispute that they will be unable to protect if they are not joined. For example, if three parties each lay claim to a piece of property and the first two sue each other, the third will not be able to protect his (alleged) interest in the property if he is not joined. Another circumstance is when a party might end up with inconsistent obligations, for example he may be required by two different courts to grant two different parties exclusive rights to the same piece of property. This is avoided by joining the parties in one lawsuit. However, while \"necessary\" parties must be joined if that joinder is possible, the litigation will continue without them if joinder is impossible, for example, if the court does not have jurisdiction over the party. By contrast, if \"indispensable\" parties cannot be joined, the litigation cannot go forward. Courts have some discretion in determining what parties are indispensable, though the Federal Rules provide some guidelines.\n\nRules 18 and 20 have different effects depending on when they are invoked. Joinder may occur as part of an original pleading. There is a discretionary period after the initial filing, during which original pleadings may be amended as a matter of course. Parties or claims or both may be joined during this time. However, if the time for modifying the pleadings has passed, the pleading can be amended with the permission of the opposing party or the judge, though this permission is frequently granted. Rule 15 describes the process for amending a claim.\n\nUnder Rule 42 of Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the court, if actions involve a common question of law or fact, may join any or all issues, consolidate the actions or issue any other orders to avoid unnecessary cost or delay. The court may also order a separate trial of one or more separate issues or claims for convenience, to avoid prejudice, or to expedite or improve economy.\n\nJoinder agreements are commonly used in mergers and acquisitions to bind individual shareholders to the terms of an existing merger agreement or shareholder agreement, and in trust practice to bind a donor to the terms and conditions of the trust.\n"}
{"id": "58908682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58908682", "title": "Keyser's Pills", "text": "Keyser's Pills\n\nKeyser's Pills were an 18th century patent medicine containing mercuric oxide and acetic acid used to treat syphilis.\n\nMercury was a common, long-standing treatment for syphilis. Keyser's pills were marketed by and named for Jean Keyser, a surgeon in the French military. They were a standard treatment in the French military by the 1750s. Keyser's solution of mercury mixed with acetic acid was intended to reduce the side-effects of mercury treatments, but still proved quite dangerous. A trial of four women at Bicêtre Hospital caused colic, diarrhea, fevers, nausea and vomiting, and mouth ulcers to the level of gangrene. One subject miscarried. \n\nA clinical trial of the pills was performed in Geneva in 1761 and deemed successful, which led the pills to be a considered a good treatment for some time, though not without continuing controversy and debate. English physician John Pringe cautioned biographer James Boswell against taking the pills, as well as Kennedy's Lisbon Diet Drink, for his veneral disease. Simon-Nicholas Henri Linguet's French novel \"La Cacomonade\" also referenced the \"dragées de Keyser\".\n\nThe pill were also marketed in the American colonies in the 1760s and 1770s.\n\n"}
{"id": "844265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844265", "title": "Letter of credit", "text": "Letter of credit\n\nA letter of credit (LC), also known as a documentary credit or bankers commercial credit, is a payment mechanism used in international trade to provide an economic guarantee from a creditworthy bank to an exporter of goods. A letter of credit is extremely common within international trade and goods delivery, where the reliability of contracting parties cannot be readily and easily determined. Its economic effect is to introduce a bank as underwriting the credit risk of the buyer paying the seller for goods.\n\nThe letter of credit has been used in Europe since ancient times. Letters of credit were traditionally governed by internationally recognized rules and procedures rather than by national law. The International Chamber of Commerce oversaw the preparation of the first Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (UCP) in 1933, creating a voluntary framework for commercial banks to apply to transactions worldwide. \n\nIn the late 19th century and early 20th century, travelers commonly carried a \"circular\" letter of credit issued by a relationship bank, which allowed the beneficiary to withdraw cash from other banks along their journey. This type of letter of credit was eventually replaced by traveler's checks, credit cards and automated teller machines.\n\nAlthough letters of credit first existed only as paper documents, they were regularly issued by telegraph in the late 19th century, and by telex in the latter half of the 20th century. Beginning in 1973 with the creation of SWIFT, banks began to migrate to electronic data interchange as a means of controlling costs, and in 1983 the UCP was amended to allow \"teletransmission\" of letters of credit. By the 21st century, the vast majority of L/Cs were issued in electronic form and entirely \"paperless\" L/Cs were becoming more common.\n\nUCP 600 (2007 Revision) regulates common market practice within the letter of credit market. It defines a number of terms related to letters of credit which categorise the various actors within any given transaction. These are crucial to understanding the role financial institutions play within. These include:\n\n\nA letter of credit is an important payment method in international trade. It is particularly useful where the buyer and seller may not know each other personally and are separated by distance, differing laws in each country, and different trading customs. It is a primary method in international trade to mitigate the risk a seller of goods takes when providing those goods to a buyer. It does this by ensuring that the seller is paid for presenting the documents which are specified in the contract for sale between the buyer and the seller. That is to say, a letter of credit is a payment method used to discharge the legal obligations for payment from the buyer to the seller, by having a bank pay the seller directly. Thus, the seller relies on the credit risk of the bank, rather than the buyer, to receive payment. As will be seen, and is observed in Image 2, the bank will pay the seller the value of the goods when the seller provides negotiable instruments, documents which themselves represent the goods. Upon presentation of the documents, the goods will traditionally be in the control of the issuing bank, which provides them security against the risk that the buyer (who had instructed the bank to pay the seller) will repay the bank for making such a payment.\n\nIn the event that the buyer is unable to make payment on the purchase, the seller may make a demand for payment on the bank. The bank will examine the beneficiary's demand and if it complies with the terms of the letter of credit, will honor the demand. Most letters of credit are governed by rules promulgated by the International Chamber of Commerce known as Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits. The current version, UCP 600, became effective July 1, 2007. Banks will typically require collateral from the purchaser for issuing a letter of credit and will charge a fee which is often a percentage of the amount covered by the letter of credit.\n\nSeveral categories of LC's exist which seek to operate in different markets and solve different issues. An example of these include:\n\nAdditionally, a letter of credit may also have specific terms relating to the payment conditions which relate to the underlying reference documents. Some of these include \n\nThe exporter has the right to make the credit available to one or more subsequent beneficiaries. \nCredits are made transferable when the original beneficiary is a \"middleman\", who does not supply the documents himself, but procures either goods or documents from other suppliers and arranges them to be sent to the issuing bank. A letter of credit can be transferred to the second beneficiary at the request of the first beneficiary only if it expressly states that the letter of credit is \"transferable\". A bank is not obligated to transfer a credit. It can further be transferred to more than one alternate beneficiary as long as it allows partial shipments.\nThe terms and conditions of the original credit must be replicated exactly in the transferred credit. However, to keep the workability of the transferable letter of credit, some figures can be reduced or curtailed, including:\nThe first beneficiary may demand from the transferring bank to substitute for the applicant. However, if a document other than the invoice must be issued in a way to show the applicant's name, in such a case that requirement must indicate that in the transferred credit it will be free. Transferred credit cannot be transferred again to a third beneficiary at the request of the second beneficiary.\n\nIn some cases, the middleman does not want the buyer and supplier know each other. The middleman is entitled to substitute his own invoice for the supplier's and acquire the difference as profit.\n\nTypically, after a sales contract has been negotiated, and the buyer and seller have agreed that a letter of credit will be used as the method of payment, the Applicant will contact a bank to ask for a letter of credit to be issued. Once the issuing bank has assessed the buyer's credit risk – i.e. that the Applicant will be able to pay for the goods – it will issue the letter of credit, meaning that it will provide a promise to pay the seller upon presentation of certain documents. Once the Beneficiary (the seller) receives the letter of credit, it will check the terms to ensure that it matches with the contract and will either arrange for shipment of the goods or ask for an amendment to the letter of credit so that it meets with the terms of the contract. The letter of credit is limited in terms of time, the validity of credit, the last date of shipment, and in terms of how much late after shipment the documents may be presented to the Nominated Bank.\n\nOnce the goods have been shipped, the Beneficiary will present the requested documents to the Nominated Bank. This bank will check the documents, and if they comply with the terms of the Letter of Credit, the issuing Bank is bound to honor the terms of the letter of credit by paying the Beneficiary.\n\nIf the documents do not comply with the terms of the letter of credit they are considered Discrepant. At this point, the Nominated Bank will inform the Beneficiary of the discrepancy and offer a number of options depending on the circumstances after consent of applicant. However, such a discrepancy must be more than trivial. Refusal cannot depend on anything other than reasonable examination of the documents themselves. The bank then must rely on the fact that there was, in fact, a material mistake. A fact that if true would entitle the buyer to reject the items. A wrong date such as an early delivery date was held by English courts to not be a material mistakes. If the discrepancies are minor, it may be possible to present corrected documents to the bank to make the presentation compliant. Failure of the bank to pay is grounds for a chose in action. Documents presented after the time limits mentioned in the credit, however, are considered discrepant.\n\nIf the corrected documents cannot be supplied in time, the documents may be forwarded directly to the issuing bank \"in trust\"; effectively in the hope that the Applicant will accept the documents. Documents forwarded in trust remove the payment security of a letter of credit so this route must only be used as a last resort.\n\nSome banks will offer to \"Telex for Approval\" or similar. This is where the Nominated Bank holds the documents, but sends a message to the Issuing Bank asking if discrepancies are acceptable. This is more secure than sending documents in trust.\n\nTo receive payment, an exporter or shipper must present the documents required by the LC. Typically the letter of credit will request an original Bill of lading as the use of a title document such as this is critical to the functioning of the Letter of Credit. However, the list and form of documents is open to negotiation and might contain requirements to present documents issued by a neutral third-party evidencing the quality of the goods shipped, or their place of origin or place. Typical types of documents in such contracts might include:\n\nThe range of documents that may be requested by the applicant is vast, and varies considerably by country and commodity.\nSeveral methods of verifying the documents exist, each provides different variations of risk to the fact that the documents are legitimate. A Documentary Credit provides security for both buyer and seller. Outlined in the \"UCP 600\", the bank will give an undertaking (or promise), on behalf of buyer (who is often the applicant) to pay the beneficiary the value of the goods shipped if acceptable documents are submitted and if the stipulated terms and conditions are strictly complied with. The buyer can be confident that the goods he is expecting only will be received since it will be evidenced in the form of certain documents, meeting the specified terms and conditions. The supplier finds his confidence in the fact that if such stipulations are met, he will receive payment from the issuing bank, who is independent of the parties to the contract. \nIn some cases, a letter of credit will require the documents to be collected. Subject to ICC's URC 525, sight and usance, for delivery of shipping documents against payment or acceptances of draft, where shipment happens first, then the title documents are sent to the buyer's bank by seller's bank, for delivering documents against collection of payment/acceptance. Other forms of effected payment is the direct payment where the supplier ships the goods and waits for the buyer to remit the bill, on open account terms.\n\nLetters of Credit are often used in international transactions to ensure that payment will be received where the buyer and seller may not know each other and are operating in different countries. In this case, the seller is exposed to a number of risks such as credit risk, and legal risk caused by the distance, differing laws and difficulty in knowing each party personally. some of the other risks inherent in international trade include:\n\nThe payment will be obtained for nonexistent or worthless merchandise against presentation by the beneficiary of forged or falsified documents.\n\nThere is the possibility that performance of a documentary credit may be disturbed by legal action relating directly to the parties and their rights and obligations under the documentary credit or performance may be prevented by government action outside the control of the parties. Alternatively, performance of a contract – including an obligation under a documentary credit relationship – could also be prevented by external factors such as natural disasters or armed conflicts. These risks, however, are often seen as secondary to the risk of non-payment.\n\nSeveral risks could relate to the parties of the applicant themselves. These may include situations where there is a non-delivery of Goods, Short shipment the goods are of inferior quality, are damaged, or are late. The applicant is also exposed to the failure of the bank to make payment.\n\nThe issuing bank is also exposed to risks which he may seek to mitigate through various techniques. He will be exposed to the insolvency risk of the applicant, that is, the risk the applicant runs insolvent before he is able to repay the letter of credit. Secondly, the bank will be exposed to a risk of fraud by the seller, who may provide incorrect or falsified documents to receive payment. If the bank ought to have known that the documents were a fraud, then the bank will be exposed to a fraud.\n\nThe beneficiary will be exposed to the risk of its own failure to comply with credit conditions or failure of, or delays in payment from, the issuing bank. These risks are considered remote. Crucially, the beneficiary is not exposed to the risks of set-off by the applicant where the goods are damaged or are of inferior quality. While he may be sued by the applicant at a later point, the issuing bank cannot reduce the payment owed to correspond with the damage occurred. This is crucial in mitigating the risk to insolvency. Crucial to a letter of credit is the beneficiary's (the seller) attempt to isolate itself from the credit risk of the buyer. That is to say, it is concerned primarily with the ability of the buyer to pay for the goods.\n\nIssuance charges, covering negotiation, reimbursements and other charges are paid by the applicant or as per the terms and conditions of the LC. If the LC does not specify charges, they are paid by the Applicant. Charge-related terms are indicated in field 71B.\n\nThe fundamental principle of all letters of credit is that letters of credit deal with documents and not with goods. The payment obligation is independent from the underlying contract of sale or any other contract in the transaction. The bank’s obligation is defined by the terms of the LC alone, and the contract of sale is not considered. So, for example, where party 'A' enters into an agreement to purchase goods from party 'B', Party 'A' will engage with their bank to create a letter of credit. If said bank is provided certain documents, by 'B', then he is obliged to pay, regardless of whether the contract between 'A' and 'B' is subject to set-off, or contractual issues. The specified documents are often bill of lading or other \"documentary intangibles\" which 'A' and 'B' have previously specified in their original contract. The defenses available to the buyer arising out of the sale contract do not concern the bank and in no way affect its liability. Article 4(a) of the UCP600 states this principle clearly. This is confirmed within the market-practice documents stated by Article 5 of UCP600. As is a core tenant of Financial law, market practice comprises a substantial portion of how parties behave. Accordingly, if the documents tendered by the beneficiary or their agent are in order, then, in general, the bank is obliged to pay without further qualifications. As a result, it is the issuing bank who bears the risk that is linked with non-payment of the buyer. This is advantageous because the issuing bank often has a personal banking relationship with the buyer. The whole commercial purpose for which the system of confirmed irrevocable documentary credits has been developed in international trade is to give to the seller an assured right to be paid before he parts with control of the goods that. It further does not permit of any dispute with the buyer as to the performance of the contract of sale being used as a ground for non-payment or reduction or deferment of payment. However, the only exception to this may be fraud. For example, a dishonest seller may present documents which comply with the letter of credit and receive payment, only to later discover that documents are fraudulent and the goods are not in accordance with the contract, this would place the risk on the buyer, but it also means that the issuing bank must be stringent in assessing whether the presenting documents are legitimate. .\n\nSimilar to other Financial law instruments, a Letter of Credit utilises several legal concepts to achieve the economic effect of shifting the legal exposure from the seller to the buyer. The policies behind adopting this principle of abstraction are purely commercial. Whilst the bank is under an obligation to identify that the correct documents exist, they are not expected to examine whether the documents themselves are valid. That is to say, the bank is not responsible for investigating the underlying facts of each transaction, whether the goods are of the sufficient – and specified – quality or quantity. Because the transaction operates on a negotiable instrument, it is the document itself which holds the value - not the goods to which the reference. This means that the bank need only be concerned with whether the document fulfils the requirements stipulated in the letter of credit. Documents required under the LC, could in certain circumstances, be different from those required under the sale transaction. This would place banks in a dilemma in deciding which terms to follow if required to look behind the credit agreement. Since the basic function of the credit is to provide a seller with the certainty of payment for documentary duties, it would seem necessary that banks should honor their obligation in spite of any buyer allegations of misfeasance. If this were not the case, financial institutions would be much less inclined to issue documentary credits because of the risk, inconvenience, and expense involved in determining the underlying goods. Financial institutions do not act as 'middlemen' but rather, as paying agents on behalf of the buyer. Courts have emphasized that buyers always have a remedy for an action upon the contract of sale and that it would be a calamity for the business world if a bank had to investigate every breach of contract.\n\nWith the UCP 600 rules the ICC sought to make the rules more flexible, suggesting that data in a document \"need not be identical to, but must not conflict with data in that document, any other stipulated document, or the credit\", as a way to account for any minor documentary errors. However, in practice, many banks still hold to the principle of strict compliance, since it offers concrete guarantees to all parties. If this were not the case, the bank would be entitled to withhold payment even if the deviation is purely technical or even typographical. The general legal maxim \"de minimis non curat lex\" (literally \"The law does not concern itself with trifles\") has no place in the field. However, whilst the details of the letter of credit can be understood with some flexibility the banks must adhere to the “principle of strict compliance” when determining whether the documents presented are those specified in the letter of credit. This is done to make the banks' duty of effecting payment against documents easy, efficient and quick.\n\nLegal writers have failed to satisfactorily reconcile the bank’s obligation to pay on behalf of the applicant with any contractually-founded, academic analysis. That is to say, they have not examined legal effect of the banks obligation through a conclusive theoretical lens. This has produced several conflicting theories as to the contractual effect of a letter of credit. Some theorists suggest that the obligation to pay arises through the implied promise, assignment, novation, reliance, agency, estoppel and even trust and the guarantees. Although documentary credits are enforceable once communicated to the beneficiary, it is difficult to show any consideration given by the beneficiary to the banker prior to the tender of documents. In such transactions the undertaking by the beneficiary to deliver the goods to the applicant is not sufficient consideration for the bank’s promise because the contract of sale is made before the issuance of the credit, thus consideration in these circumstances is past. However, the performance of an existing duty under a contract may be a valid consideration for a new promise made by the bank, provided that there is some practical benefit to the bank A promise to perform owed to a third party may also constitute a valid consideration.\n\nIt might also be feasible to typify letters of credit as a collateral contract for a third-party beneficiary, because three different entities participate in the transaction: the seller, the buyer, and the banker. Jean Domat suggests that because letters of credit are prompted by the buyer’s necessity, the cause of a LC is to release the buyer of his obligation to pay directly to the seller. Therefore, a LC theoretically fits as a collateral contract accepted by conduct or in other words, an implied-in-fact contract where the buyer participates as the third party beneficiary with the bank acting as the stipulator and the seller as the promisor. The term \"beneficiary\" is not used properly in the scheme of an LC because a beneficiary (also, in trust law, \"cestui que use\") in the broadest sense is a natural person or other legal entity who receives money or other benefits from a benefactor. Note that under the scheme of letters of credit, banks are neither benefactors of sellers nor benefactors of buyers and the seller receives no money in gratuity mode. Thus is possible that a “letter of credit” was one of those contracts that needed to be masked to disguise the “consideration or privity requirement”. As a result, this kind of arrangement would make letter of credit to be enforceable under the action assumpsit because of its promissory connotation.\n\nA few countries have created statutes in relation to letters of credit. For example, most jurisdictions in the United States (U.S.) have adopted Article 5 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC). These statutes are designed to work with the rules of market practice including UCP and ISP98. These rules of practice are incorporated into the transaction by agreement of the parties. The latest version of the UCP is the UCP600 effective July 1, 2007. Since the UCP are not laws, parties have to include them into their arrangements as normal contractual provisions. However, they still form a substantial part of market practice and underpin Financial law crucially.\n\n\"Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch\", the German civil code, does not directly address letters of credit. German case law indicates that the relationship between the issuing bank and customer is a contract for execution of a transaction, while the relationship between the issuing bank and the beneficiary is a promise of a debt.\n\nThe Swiss Civil Code of 1911 did not directly address letters of credit, which were still rare in the country at the time. Courts eventually dealt with the device by treating it as a hybrid of a mandate (\"Auftrag\") and authorization-to-pay contract (\"Anweisung\").\n\nLetters of credit came into general domestic use in the United States during World War I, although they had been used in American foreign trade for some time prior. The state of New York has historically had the most substantial and consistent body of case law in the United States with regard to letters of credit, due to the prominence of New York banks in international trade. The New York Bankers Commercial Credit Conference of 1920 provided the first set of voluntary L/C regulations for major banks in the United States, but these banks transitioned to the international UCP standard by 1938. \n\nArticle 5 of the Uniform Commercial Code, drafted in 1952, provided a basis for codifying many UCP principles into state law and created one of the only extensive specific legal regulations of letters of credit worldwide, although the UCC rules do not cover all aspects of letters of credit. New York effectively subjugated the UCC rules to the existing UCP rules, and as a result the UCP rules continued to govern letters of credit under New York law. Article 5 was revised in 1995 to reflect the latest international practices as codified in the UCP.\n\nLetters of credit are sometimes used to defraud banks through presentment of false documentation indicating that goods were shipped when they actually were not. Letters of credit are also sometimes used as part of fraudulent investment schemes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3606328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3606328", "title": "List of Acts of the Scottish Parliament from 1999", "text": "List of Acts of the Scottish Parliament from 1999\n\nThis is a list of Acts of the Scottish Parliament. It lists Acts of the modern, devolved Scottish Parliament, established in 1999 by the Scotland Act 1998. Acts which have since been wholly repealed are marked.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditionally, the UK Withdrawal from the European Union (Legal Continuity) (Scotland) Bill was passed by the Scottish Parliament on 21 March 2018 but has not yet (as of July 2018) received Royal Assent (and so has not yet become an Act) as the result of a challenge in the Supreme Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "4467517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467517", "title": "List of people indicted in the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia", "text": "List of people indicted in the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia\n\nA total of 161 persons were indicted in the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY). Since the arrest of Goran Hadžić on 20 July 2011, there are no indictees remaining at large. This article lists them along with their ethnic origin, rank or occupation, details of charges against them and the disposition of their cases. The list includes those whose indictments were withdrawn by the ICTY.\n\nDražen Erdemović, a Bosnian Croat fighting in the Bosnian Serb contingent, and Franko Simatović, an ethnic Croat and high-ranking official of the Yugoslav State Security Service, are the only indictees on this list who crossed either religious and/or ethnic lines. Biljana Plavšić is the sole female ICTY indictee.\n\nSince the arrest of Goran Hadžić on 20 July 2011, there are no indictees remaining at large. \n\nThe ICTY announced a verdict in its last ongoing case on November 22, 2017: Ratko Mladić, sentenced to life imprtisonment, Eight cases on listed as on appeal as of November, 2017. 13 defendants were transferred to other courts, with 11 being convicted, one of them, Rahim Ademi, acquitted, and another, Vladimir Kovačević, was ruled mentally unfit to stand trial in 2004. Additionally, it was reported that two acquittals (from 2013) had been overturned by an appeals panel and new trials are pending, for Franko Simatović and Jovica Stanišić.\n\nThe list contains 161 names. 94 of these are Serbs, 29 are Croats, 9 are Albanians, 9 are Bosniaks, 2 are Macedonians and 2 are Montenegrins. The others are of unknown ethnicity or their charges have been withdrawn.\n\nThere are 62 convicted Serbs, 18 convicted Croats, 5 convicted Bosniaks, 2 convicted Montenegrins, 1 convicted Macedonian and 1 convicted Albanian in this list.\n\n"}
{"id": "39784425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39784425", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Constitution Affairs", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Constitution Affairs\n\nThe Ministry of Constitution and Legal Affairs is a government ministry of Tanzania that was formed in 2006. The ministry is responsible for creating and promoting good governance, justice, and equality by ensuring universal access to legal services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44130779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44130779", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Public Security (Haiti)", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Public Security (Haiti)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Public Security is a ministry of the Government of Haiti. This ministry is responsible for law enforcement roles, along with playing an integral role in the Prime Minister's Cabinet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43495783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43495783", "title": "Monkey selfie copyright dispute", "text": "Monkey selfie copyright dispute\n\nThe monkey selfie copyright dispute is a series of disputes about the copyright status of selfies taken by Celebes crested macaques using equipment belonging to the British nature photographer David Slater. The disputes involve Wikimedia Commons and the blog \"Techdirt\", which have hosted the images following their publication in newspapers in July 2011 over Slater's objections, and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), who have argued that the macaque should be assigned the copyright.\n\nSlater has argued that he has a valid copyright claim based on the fact that he engineered the situation that resulted in the pictures, by travelling to Indonesia, befriending a group of wild macaques, and setting up his camera equipment in such a way that a \"selfie\" picture might come about. The Wikimedia Foundation's 2014 refusal to remove the pictures from its Wikimedia Commons image library was based on the understanding that copyright is held by the creator, that a non-human creator (not being a legal person) cannot hold copyright, and that the images are thus in the public domain. Slater stated in August 2014 that as a result of the pictures being available on Wikipedia, he had lost \"£10,000 or more in income\" and that it was \"killing [his] business\" as a wildlife photographer. In December 2014, the United States Copyright Office stated that works created by a non-human, such as a photograph taken by a monkey, are not copyrightable. A number of legal experts in the US and UK have nevertheless argued that Slater's role in the photographic process may have been sufficient to establish a valid copyright claim, though this decision would have to be made by a court.\n\nIn a separate dispute, PETA tried to use the monkey selfies to establish a legal precedent that animals should be declared copyright holders. Slater had published a book containing the photographs through self-publishing company Blurb, Inc. In September 2015, PETA filed a lawsuit against Slater and Blurb, requesting that the monkey be assigned copyright and that PETA be appointed to administer proceeds from the photos for the endangered species' benefit. In dismissing PETA's case, the court ruled that a monkey cannot own copyright, under U.S. law. PETA appealed, and in September 2017, both PETA and the photographer agreed to a settlement in which Slater would donate a portion of future revenues on the photographs to wildlife organizations. However, the court of appeals declined to dismiss the appeal and declined to vacate the lower court judgment. In April 2018, the appeals court affirmed that animals can not legally hold copyrights and expressed concern that PETA's motivations had been to promote their own interests rather than to protect the legal rights of animals.\n\nSince 2008, British nature photographer David Slater had traveled to Indonesia to take photographs of the critically endangered Celebes crested macaques. In 2011 he licensed several images to the Caters News Agency who released them, along with a written promotional press release with quotes from Slater, for publication in the British media. On 4 July 2011 several publications including the \"Daily Mail\", \"The Telegraph\", and \"The Guardian\" picked up the story and published the pictures along with articles that quoted Slater as describing the photographs as self-portraits taken by the monkeys: \"Monkey steals camera to snap himself\" (\"The Telegraph\"), \"a camera on a tripod\" triggered by the monkeys (\"The Guardian\"), and a camera started by a monkey \"Fascinated by her reflection in the lens\". (\"Daily Mail\"). The articles also contained Slater quotes such as \"He must have taken hundreds of pictures by the time I got my camera back.\" The following day \"Amateur Photographer\" reported Slater gave them further explanation as to how the photographs were created downplaying the way newspaper articles had described the photographs; Slater said reports that a monkey ran off with his camera and \"began taking self-portraits\" were incorrect and that the portrait was shot when his camera had been mounted on a tripod, with the primates playing around with a remote cable release as he fended off other monkeys.\n\nSlater gave further description in his website and other media accounts saying he and a guide followed the monkeys for three days, gaining their trust on the second day. According to Slater, in his attempts to get photographs of the monkeys, he found the they were fascinated with the camera and the camera gear and kept playing with it, but they also kept trying to run off with the camera. Slater further stated in a August 7, 2014 \"Amateur Photographer\" follow up article that \"I wanted a close-up image but I couldn't do it. They were too nervous so I had to get them [the monkeys] to come to the camera without me being there and get them to play with the release, which they did\". He added: \"They were looking at the reflection in the lens which they found amusing\". In an attempt to get a portrait of the monkeys' faces, Slater said he set the camera on a tripod with a large wide angle lens attached, and set the camera's settings to optimize the chances of getting a facial close up, using predictive autofocus, motor drive, and a flashgun. Slater further stated that he set the camera's remote shutter trigger next to the camera and, while he held onto the tripod, the monkeys spent 30 minutes looking into the lens and playing with the camera gear, triggering the remote multiple times and capturing many photographs. The session ended when the \"dominant male at times became over excited and eventually gave me a whack with his hand as he bounced off my back\". Slater also said in a 28 July 2017 \"Vice\" magazine interview that some news outlets were misreporting how he obtained the selfie, but he went along with it because it was \"a bit of fun and some good publicity for the conservation cause\".\n\nOn 9 July 2011, an editor on Wikimedia Commons, a site that only accepts media available under a free content license, in the public domain, or otherwise ineligible for copyright, uploaded the selfie photographs from \"The Daily Mail\". The uploader asserted that the photographs were in the public domain as \"the work of a non-human animal, it has no human author in whom copyright is vested\". Slater discovered this a few days later and requested that the Wikimedia Foundation remove the photos. Initially, an administrator at Commons removed the images, but they were later restored after a community discussion on their copyright nature. Slater continued to challenge the Foundation to remove the image. The Foundation reviewed the situation, but made the determination that the images were in the public domain and denied Slater's request; in its transparency report for August 2014, the Foundation stated \"copyright cannot vest in non-human authors\" and \"when a work's copyright cannot vest in a human, it falls into the public domain\".\n\nSlater's conflict with the Wikimedia Foundation was covered by the blog \"Techdirt\" on 12 July 2011. \"Techdirt\" posted the photograph with a public domain license, arguing that the photograph was in the public domain because the monkey was not a legal person capable of holding a copyright, and Slater could not hold copyright to the photo because he was not involved in its creation. Afterwards, Caters News Agency issued a request for the photo to be removed, citing a lack of permission; however, in response to a reply by the blog's author, Mike Masnick, the representative stated that Masnick had \"blatantly 'lifted' these photographs from somewhere—I presume the \"Daily Mail\" online\", and continued to request its removal (despite Masnick's claim that, if it were even capable of being copyrighted, the photo's use on \"Techdirt\" would be considered fair use under United States copyright law), believing that \"regardless of the issue of who does and doesn't own the copyright—it is 100% clear that the copyright owner is not yourself.\"\n\nSlater counterargued in response to both the Wikimedia Foundation and \"Techdirt\" that he had made significant creative contributions to the monkey selfie photographs that would make the public domain argument moot. Slater told the BBC \"I became accepted as part of the troop, they touched me and groomed me ... so I thought they could take their own photograph. I set the camera up on a tripod, framed [the shot] up and got the exposure right ... and all you've got to do is give the monkey the button to press and lo and behold you got the picture.\" In a story published on or before 14 August 2014 on his own website, Slater said that the monkeys stealing the camera was a separate incident that occurred before the \"selfies\" were taken. Slater went on to say \"I put my camera on a tripod with a very wide angle lens, settings configured such as predictive autofocus, motorwind, even a flashgun, to give me a chance of a facial close up if they were to approach again for a play ... I had one hand on the tripod when this was going on, but I was being prodded and poked by would be groomers and a few playful juveniles who nibbled at my arms\" In a November 2017 interview with the radio show \"This American Life\", Slater said that he was holding the tripod with his fingers when the images were taken.\n\nAmerican and British intellectual property lawyers Mary M. Luria and Charles Swan said that because the creator of the photograph is an animal and not a person, there is no copyright on the photograph, regardless of who owns the equipment with which the photograph was created.\n\nHowever, British media lawyer Christina Michalos said that on the basis of British law on computer-generated art, it is arguable that Slater may own copyrights on the photograph, because he owned and presumably had set up the camera. Similarly, Serena Tierney, of London lawyers BDB, stated \"If he checked the angle of the shot, set up the equipment to produce a picture with specific light and shade effects, set the exposure or used filters or other special settings, light and that everything required is in the shot, and all the monkey contributed was to press the button, then he would seem to have a passable claim that copyright subsists in the photo in the UK and that he is the author and so first owner.\" Furthermore, Andres Guadamuz, a lecturer in IP law at Sussex University, has written that existing European case law, particularly \"Infopaq International A/S v Danske Dagblades Forening\", makes it clear that the selection of photographs would be enough to warrant originality if the process reflects the personality of the photographer.\n\nOn 21 August 2014 the United States Copyright Office published an opinion, later included in the Office's \"Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, Third Edition\", released on 22 December 2014, to clarify that \"only works created by a human can be copyrighted under United States law, which excludes photographs and artwork created by animals or by machines without human intervention\" and that \"Because copyright law is limited to 'original intellectual conceptions of the author,' the [copyright] office will refuse to register a claim if it determines that a human being did not create the work. The Office will not register works produced by nature, animals, or plants.\" The compendium specifically highlights \"a photograph taken by a monkey\" as an example of something that cannot be copyrighted.\n\nAccording to University of Michigan law professor, Jessica Litman, \"No human author has rights to a photograph taken by a monkey,\" ... \"The original monkey selfie is in the public domain\". She said that the US Copyright Office was clarifying existing practice, and not creating a new policy.\n\nArt lawyer Nicholas O'Donnell of Sullivan & Worcester LLP commented that \"even if 'a photograph taken by a monkey' cannot be copyrighted by the monkey, it is not clear why that would categorically rule out any copyright for a human author in a work in which cameras are intentionally left in a place where some natural force or animal will cause them to snap a photo\". A spokeswoman for the UK Intellectual Property Office similarly said, \"The IPO indicates that under UK law animals cannot own copyright. However the question as to whether the photographer owns copyright is more complex. It depends on whether the photographer has made a creative contribution to the work and this is a decision which must be made by the courts.\"\n\nThe \"Monkey-selfie selfie\" became a theme at Wikimania 2014 at the Barbican Centre in London. Conference attendees, including Wikipedia co-founder and Wikimedia Foundation board member Jimmy Wales, posed for selfies with printed copies of the macaque photograph. Reaction to these selfies and to pre-printed monkey posters was mixed. According to Wikipedia contributor Andreas Kolbe, writing in Wikipediocracy, Wales' action was criticized by some users on Twitter and Wikipedia \"for what appeared like tactless gloating\".\n\nThe macaque photographs appeared in a book titled \"Wildlife Personalities\" that Slater had published via San Francisco-based self-publishing company Blurb, Inc. On 22 September 2015, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) filed a lawsuit against Slater and Blurb in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to request that the monkey, whom they named Naruto, be assigned copyright and that PETA be appointed to administer proceeds from the photos for the benefit of Naruto and other crested macaques in the reserve on Sulawesi. PETA did so by using the next friend principle, which allows persons to sue in the name of another person who is unable to do so. In November, Angela Dunning, the attorney for Blurb, noted that PETA may have been suing on behalf of the wrong monkey.\n\nDuring a hearing in January 2016, US District Judge William Orrick III said that the copyright law does not extend its protection to animals. Orrick dismissed the case on 28 January, ruling that \"if Congress and the president intended to take the extraordinary step of authorizing animals as well as people and legal entities to sue, they could, and should, have said so plainly.\" On 20 March 2016, PETA filed a notice of appeal to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On 12 July 2017 the court held an oral argument on the matter in San Francisco. On 4 August 2017, lawyers for all parties to the case informed the court that they expected to arrive at an out-of-court settlement in the near future, asking the court not to issue a ruling. The court on 11 August stayed the appeal to 8 September. An agreement between Slater, Blurb, and PETA was reached on 11 September 2017, in which Slater will donate 25% of any future revenues from the monkey selfies to charities that protect the wildlife of monkeys like Naruto, but the court has not accepted this agreement as being a valid settlement. As part of their joint motion to dismiss the appeal and vacate the judgment, the parties have asked for vacatur, which would nullify the record in the lower court. The Competitive Enterprise Institute filed an amicus brief on 13 September 2017, urging the court to deny vacatur. The brief argues, that since Naruto is not a party to the settlement, PETA does not have standing to move for vacatur.\n\nIn April 2018, the Ninth Circuit denied the motions to vacate the case. On 23 April, the court issued its ruling in favor of Slater, finding that animals have no legal authority to hold copyright claims. The court also expressed concern with PETA's motivations and actions during the case that were aligned to promote their own interests rather than to protect Naruto, as they found PETA's actions in attempting to vacate the case when the potential for landmark case law to be set to be troubling. The judges noted that their decision had to be considered in light of \"Cetacean Community v. Bush\", a 2004 case heard by the Ninth Circuit that found, under some circumstances, animals could have some standing to seek legal action, and encourages that the Ninth Circuit should hold an \"en banc\" hearing to review their decision in \"Cetacean\" in light of the monkey selfie case. On May 25, a Ninth Circuit judge made a call for the case to be heard \"en banc\", potentially to overrule the \"Cetaceans Community\" precedent. The Circuit Court requested the parties to provide briefs within 21 days on whether the \"en banc\" hearing should be granted and on August 31, 2018 declined to review the case.\n\nSlater told BBC News that he had suffered financial loss as a result of the pictures being available on Wikimedia Commons, \"I made £2,000 [for that picture] in the first year after it was taken. After it went on Wikipedia all interest in buying it went. It's hard to put a figure on it but I reckon I've lost £10,000 or more in income. It's killing my business.\" Slater was quoted by \"The Daily Telegraph\" as saying, \"What they don't realise is that it needs a court to decide [the copyright].\" In January 2016, Slater stated his intention to sue Wikipedia for copyright infringement of his works. no lawsuit has been filed.\n\nBy July 2017, Slater was reported to be broke and unable to pay his attorney. While he had originally made a few thousand pounds from the images, enough to recoup his travel costs to Indonesia, this income reduced to about \"£100 every few months\" when the Wikimedia Foundation refused to stop making the images available without his permission.\n\nSlater was unable to travel to the July 2017 court hearing in the United States for lack of funds and said he was considering alternative careers as a dog walker or tennis coach. \"This would be a new venture for me. It would pay peanuts, but at least it would be more than photography. I am just not motivated to go out and take photos any more. I've had outlays of several thousand pounds for lawyers, it is losing me income and getting me so depressed. When I think about the whole situation I really don't think it's worth it.\" Slater added, \"Everything I did to try and highlight the plight of the monkeys has backfired on my private life. I've had my life ruined.\"\n\nHowever, Slater still said he felt \"absolutely delighted\" with the impact of the photo shoot itself: \"It has taken six years for my original intention to come true which was to highlight the plight of the monkeys and bring it to the world. No one had heard of these monkeys six years ago, they were down to the last thousands. ... The locals used to roast them, but now they love them, they call it the 'selfie monkey'. Tourists are now visiting and people see there is a longer-term benefit to the community than just shooting a monkey.\"\n\nIn May 2018, Condé Nast Entertainment acquired the rights from Slater to make a documentary-style film related to the monkey selfie dispute. The project is being overseen by Dawn Ostroff and Jeremy Steckler.\n\n"}
{"id": "28389857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28389857", "title": "Nauru Agreement", "text": "Nauru Agreement\n\nThe Nauru Agreement Concerning Cooperation in the Management of Fisheries of Common Interest, or The Nauru Agreement is an Oceania subregional agreement between the Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, Nauru, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands and Tuvalu.\nThe eight signatories collectively control 25–30% of the world's tuna supply and approximately 60% of the western and central Pacific tuna supply.\n\nHistorically, the Nauru Agreement and other joint fishery management Arrangements made by the Parties to the Nauru Agreement (usually referred to as \"PNA\") have been concerned mainly with the management of tuna purse-seine fishing in the tropical western Pacific.\n\nFrom its initial enactment in 1982, the implementation of the Nauru Agreement was coordinated by the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency (FFA). However a separate PNA Office was created in 2010, based in Majuro, Marshall Islands. The current (2017) PNA chief executive officer is Ludwig Kumoru of Papua New Guinea, who succeeded Dr Transform Aqorau of Solomon Islands in 2016.\n\nIn October 2010, the eight member states Parties to the Nauru Agreement (PNA) extended their prohibition on tuna purse-seine fishing in approximately 4.5 million square kilometres of the Pacific Ocean high seas by purse-seine vessels licensed to fish in their combined Exclusive Economic Zones. The extension was unveiled at the 6th meeting of the Technical and Compliance Committee of the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC).\n\nOther recent actions by the Parties to the Nauru Agreement include a prohibition on setting purse-seine nets around whale sharks, a ban on fishing near fish aggregation devices during the months of July, August and September (with an option to extend this for up to an additional three months if scientific advice suggests that tuna stocks would benefit), a requirement for 100% observer coverage aboard purse-seiners, a minimum mesh-size, and a requirement for retention of all catch of tuna on board (no discards).\n\nThe full range of fishery management instruments implemented by the Parties to the Nauru Agreement includes:\n\n\nThese PNA-specific measures are also supplemented by the \"Harmonized Minimum Terms and Conditions for Access to FFA member EEZs by Foreign Fishing Vessels\", agreed by all FFA member countries including the Parties to the Nauru Agreement. These terms and conditions apply to all foreign fishing vessels, not just purse-seiners, and include a requirement for an Automatic Location Communicator to be switched on at all times and reporting to the regional Vessel Monitoring System, minimum standards for reporting to national authorities, and a requirement for annual regional vessel registration.\n\nIn May 2012 the PNA Fisheries Ministers met in Alotau, Papua New Guinea, and through a Resolution on Marine Animals. gave their commitment to implement even stronger management measures in their joint EEZs order to maintain sustainable tuna fisheries and minimise impact on bycatch species The new commitments include:\n\n\nAt the May 2012 meeting in Alotau, Papua New Guinea, the Fisheries Ministers also approved a PNA Office Business Plan, and welcomed Tokelau as a party to the Palau Arrangement Purse-Seine Vessel Days Management Scheme.\n\nIn June 2015 the PNA Fisheries Ministers met in Palikir, Pohnpei, under the chairmanship of Elisala Pita of Tuvalu, which in 2015 has refused to sell fishing days to certain nations and fleets that have blocked Tuvaluan initiatives to develop and sustain their own fishery. Elisala Pita also said that Tuvalu was disappointed with the outcomes of recent meetings of the WCPFC as some fishing nations had tried to avoid their responsibilities and commitment to sustainable fishing.\n\nIn December 2011, the PNA purse-seine free-school skipjack fishery was certified according to Marine Stewardship Council standards as being sustainable. This means that products made from skipjack tuna caught from free schools (without setting near Fish Aggregation Devices or other floating objects) by PNA-licensed and product-chain-certified purse-seiners will be eligible for the MSC label. The PNA free-school skipjack purse-seine fishery is one of the largest fisheries certified by the MSC.\n\nLike all such certificates, this approval is issued according to the fulfilment of certain conditions and requirements over the course of its duration.\n\nBecause the PNA is a member-driven institution, the PNA Chair plays a fundamental role, both as spokesperson and as arbiter of consensus within the group. Unlike some other regional organisations, where Chairs are actively occupied only during annual governing council meetings, chairing the PNA requires a significant investment of time throughout the year. The catches taken by the fisheries that are controlled by the standards, rules and decisions agreed between the Parties to the Nauru Agreement are worth several billion US dollars per annum, and decisions may need to be made at any time to sustain these fisheries as new challenges arise. The PNA Chair is selected by Parties annually.\n\n\nThe PNA was named the Organization of the Year for 2010 by the regional news magazine \"Islands Business\".\n\nPNA earned the Seafood Champion Award for Vision at the Global Seafood Summit in Malta in 2016. According to the Environmental Justice Foundation, PNA earned the award for \"seeing the need to manage the Western and Central Pacific tuna fishery for the long term and quickly taking effective action\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13607475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13607475", "title": "North American Oil Consolidated v. Burnet", "text": "North American Oil Consolidated v. Burnet\n\nNorth American Oil Consolidated v. Burnet, 286 U.S. 417 (1932), was a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court that established the claim of right doctrine.\n\nThis case involved the North American Oil Consolidated (hereinafter North American Oil) company which operated several properties in 1916. One of the properties was a section of oil land, and the United States held the legal title to the property. The income earned from the property in 1916 was recorded in North American Oil's books as income.\n\nIn 1915, the United States government filed a suit to remove North American Oil from the property, and on February 2, 1916, the court appointed a receiver to operate the property and hold the income derived from the property while litigation ensued.\n\nIn 1917, North American Oil was paid the 1916 profits which were acquired during the receivership by order of the District Court. The government appealed, but it was not until 1920 that the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s decision. Finally, in 1922, a further appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court was dismissed by stipulation.\n\nIn 1918, North American Oil filed an amended tax return including the profits from the receivership in its 1916 taxable income. The IRS filed a deficiency, claiming that the income North American Oil gained from receivership should have been taxed in 1917 when they achieved control of it. The Board of Tax Appeals found that the money was taxable to the receiver in 1916. On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the profits were taxable to the company as income in 1917. North American Oil appealed on the basis that the income was taxable either in 1916 when it was earned, or 1922 when the final decision regarding the land was made, and was granted a writ of certiorari.\n\nWhether the profits paid to North American Oil in 1917 were taxable income for that particular year.\n\nThe Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) argued that the 1916 profits should be included in the 1917 taxable year. North American Oil had not entered the profit as income in 1916 but did include it in an amended return for 1916 in 1918.\n\nNorth American Oil appealed the IRS’ decision, and the Board of Tax Appeals held that the profits were taxable to the receiver as income in 1916 and made no finding whether the company’s accounts were kept on the cash receipts and disbursements basis or on the accrual basis. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the profits were taxable to North American Oil as income in 1917 regardless of whether the company’s returns were made on the cash or on the accrual basis.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court affirmed the Circuit Court of Appeals. The Court analyzed the facts and arrived at three main conclusions:\n\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the Circuit Court of Appeals. The 1916 profits were taxable income to North American Oil in 1917 when the District Court determined that the company had a claim of right to the profits, even though litigation was ongoing at that time.\n\nThis case is significant for all taxpaying individuals, even in today’s world, because the court articulated a “claim of right” doctrine. This doctrine generally states that when a taxpayer receives income for which they have a “claim of right” it is then included as income in that year, when that “claim of right” is established. Later, if it turns out that the taxpayer must return the income, then the taxpayer will generally be entitled to take a deduction for the returned amount.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "926740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=926740", "title": "Patent examiner", "text": "Patent examiner\n\nA patent examiner (or, historically, a patent clerk) is an employee, usually a civil servant with a scientific or engineering background, working at a patent office. Major employers of patent examiners are the European Patent Office (EPO), the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), the Japan Patent Office (JPO), and other patent offices around the world.\n\nPatent examiners review patent applications to determine whether the invention(s) claimed in each of them should be granted a patent or whether the application should instead be refused. One of the most important tasks of a patent examiner is to review the disclosure in the application and to compare it to the prior art. This involves reading and understanding a patent application, searching the prior art (including prior patent applications and patents, scientific literature databases, etc.) to determine what contribution the invention makes over the prior art, and issuing office actions to explain to the applicants and their representatives (i.e., patent attorneys or agents) any objections that may exist against the grant of a patent. In other words, an examiner reviews a patent application substantively to determine whether it complies with the legal requirements for granting of a patent. A claimed invention must meet patentability requirements of novelty, inventive step or non-obviousness, industrial application (or utility) and sufficiency of disclosure.\n\nExaminers are expected to be efficient in their work and to determine patentability within a limited amount of time. Some patent applications are easy for an examiner to assess, but others require considerably more time. This has given rise to controversy: On April 13, 2007, a \"Coalition of Patent Examiner Representatives\" expressed concern that \n\nPatent examiners at the European Patent Office (EPO) carry out examination and opposition procedures for patent applications originating anywhere in the world and seeking protection in any of the member states of the European Patent Organisation. The process involves a search for existing documentation in the technical area of the application (prior art) and communication with the applicant in order to bring the application in line with the legal requirements of the European Patent Convention. For every patent application, a division formed by three examiners must decide whether the application is granted or not, and in which scope.\n\nEPO examiners are organized in a branched structured by their technical field of expertise and examine patent applications in three official languages, English, French, and German. They are recruited among nationals of the member states and work in one of the EPO offices in Munich, The Hague and Berlin.\n\nCandidates for examiner positions must meet certain minimum requirements:\n\nSome examiners have work experience in industry, but such experience is not required. EPO examiners are also reportedly required to speak three languages fluently.\n\nMost EPO examiners are represented by SUEPO, a trade union.\n\nPatent examiners at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) examine patent applications for claims of new inventions. Examiners make determinations of patentability based on policies and guidance from this agency, in compliance with federal laws (Title 35 of the United States Code), rules, judicial precedents, and guidance from agency administrators. These determinations are appealable through the U.S. Courts. An appeal of these determinations is three steps away from the U.S. Supreme Court. Responsibilities for a patent examiner at the USPTO include:\nExaminers are hired at the GS-5, GS-7, GS-9 or GS-11 grade levels.\n\nPatent examiners in the U.S. have responsibilities that are commensurate with their GS level. Promotions from GS-7 to GS-14 are non-competitive. At GS-13 they are eligible to start the \"Partial Signatory Authority\" program, a testing phase to see if an examiner can apply patent concepts (e.g. obviousness and novelty) and laws (35 USC). Upon passing the \"Partial Signatory Program\", a patent examiner is given signatory authority to sign all of their own non-final rejections and other non-final communications to applicants. After a waiting period a patent examiner may take part in an additional testing phase known as the \"Full Signatory Authority\" (FSA) program. When a patent examiner has passed the FSA program, they are given \"Full Signatory Authority\" and can sign all of their own \"office actions\" (e.g. allowances, rejections) without review and approval by a supervisor. Such examiners are also able to review and sign actions of \"junior examiners\" (patent examiners without signatory authority). Upon completion of the \"Full Signatory Authority program\", an examiner is advanced from GS-13 to GS-14 and is referred to as a \"primary examiner\". \n\nSupervisors at the USPTO are GS-15 employees who are necessarily primary examiners now called Supervisory Patent Examiners (formerly Supervisory Primary Examiners) (SPE, colloquially called \"spee\"). They apply for positions competitively and receive management training inside the office. They are responsible for an Art Unit of patent examiners, typically 8-15 examiners who examine cases in the same area of technology (e.g. GPS devices and aircraft are handled by different art units). Responsibilities include training new examiners, reviewing and signing office actions of junior examiners and acting as an advocate of the examiners they are responsible for to a variety of parties (e.g. other managers in the office, patent applicants and their attorneys). They are the lowest rung of the USPTO's management chain of command, and the only part of management that is paid as part of the general schedule (GS). Higher paid managers are part of the Senior Executive Service and are technically political appointees. For example, a primary examiner (GS-14) and her SPE (GS-15) are part of the general schedule and cannot be fired as part of an administration change, but the SPE's boss (a \"technology center\" director paid at SES-1), can be asked to resign by the president, at his pleasure.\n\nAccording to the USPTO, an examiner is measured entirely by his own performance, without regard to the performance of others. The two most important performance statistics are referred to as \"production\" (the number of applications processed in the allotted time) and \"docket management\" (compliance with goals for responding to applicant communications within the allotted time). Legal, technical and automation training is provided to examiners at the USPTO.\n\nTo work as an examiner at the USPTO, a person must be a U.S. citizen and pass a background investigation. Examiners also must have a college degree in engineering or science. The Technology Centers at the USPTO are divided into chemistry (or chemical engineering), electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering, so college degrees in these areas are typically preferred. In recent years, however, new technologies have been important areas of innovation, so the USPTO employs people with training in biotechnology, business methods, geology, mathematics, and many other disciplines.\n\nExperienced examiners have an option of working primarily from home through a hoteling program implemented in 2006 by the USPTO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1434699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1434699", "title": "Price ceiling", "text": "Price ceiling\n\nA price ceiling is a government-imposed price control, or limit, on how high a price is charged for a product. Governments use price ceilings to protect consumers from conditions that could make commodities prohibitively expensive. Such conditions can occur during periods of high inflation, in the event of an investment bubble, or in the event of monopoly ownership of a product, all of which can cause problems if imposed for a long period without controlled rationing, leading to shortages. Further problems can occur if a government sets unrealistic price ceilings, causing business failures, stock crashes, or even economic crises. In unregulated market economies, price ceilings do not exist.\n\nRent control is a price ceiling on rent. When soldiers returned from World War II and started families, which increased demand for apartments, but stopped receiving military pay, many of them could not deal with higher rents. The government put in price controls so that soldiers and their families could pay their rents and keep their homes. However, it increased the quantity demand for apartments and lowered the quantity supplied, and so the number of available apartments rapidly decreased until none were available for latecomers. Price ceilings create shortages when producers may to abdicate market share or go unsubsidized.\n\nAccording to professors Niko Määttänen and Ari Hyytinen, price ceilings on Helsinki City Hitas apartments are highly inefficient economically. They cause queuing and discriminate against the handicapped, single parents, elderly, and others who are not able to queue for days. They cause inefficient allocation, as apartments are not bought by those willing to pay the most for them. Also, those who get an apartment are unwilling to leave it, even when their family or work situation changes, as they may not sell it at what they feel the market price should be. The inefficiencies increase apartment shortage and raise the market price of other apartments.\n\nUniform wage ceilings were introduced in Australian rules football to address uneven competition. In the Victorian Football League (VFL) a declining competitive balance followed a 1925 expansion that had admitted Footscray, Hawthorn and North Melbourne. The effects on financially-weaker clubs were exacerbated in 1929 by the beginning of the Great Depression. In 1930, a new ceiling system, formulated by VFL administrator George Coulter, stipulated that individual players were to be paid no more than A£3 (approximately A$243 in 2017) for a regular home-and-away match, that they must also be paid if they were injured, that they could be paid no more than A£12 (approximately A$975 in 2017) for a finals match, and that the wages could not be augmented with other bonuses or lump-sum payments. The \"Coulter law\", as it became known, remained a strictly-binding price ceiling through its history.\n\nDuring its early years, the Coulter law adversely affected only a minority of players, such as stars and players at wealthier clubs. Those individuals experienced, in effect, a drastic cut in wages. For instance, from 1931 the ceiling payment of £3 per game fell below the legal minimum award wage. While players at the more successful clubs of the day, such as Richmond, had previously paid significantly higher average wages, clubs that were struggling financially often could not meet the ceiling under the Coulter law. Clubs with a longstanding amateur ethos became significantly more competitive under the Coulter law, such as Melbourne, which had long attracted and retained players by indirect or non-financial incentives (such as finding players employment not related to football). The Coulter law led to at least one VFL star of the 1930s, Ron Todd, moving to the rival VFA, because he was dissatisfied with the maximum pay that he could receive at Collingwood,\n\nAs a result of World War II, the wage for a regular game was halved (to £1 and 10 shillings) for the 1942–45 seasons. After the war, the ceilings were modified several times in line with inflation. During the 1950s, the \"Coulter law\" was also blamed for shortening the careers of star players such as John Coleman and Brian Gleeson, as they and their clubs could not pay for the private surgery that the players required to continue their careers.\nThe Coulter law was abolished in 1968. However, in 1987 a club-level salary cap was introduced by the VFL and has been retained by its successor, the Australian Football League (AFL).\n\nOn February 4, 2009, a \"Wall Street Journal\" article stated, \"Last month State Farm pulled the plug on its 1.2 million homeowner policies in Florida, citing the state's punishing price controls... State Farm's local subsidiary recently requested an increase of 47%, but state regulators refused. State Farm says that since 2000, it has paid $1.21 in claims and expenses for every $1 of premium income received.\"\n\nOn January 10, 2006, a BBC article reported that since 2003, Venezuela President Hugo Chávez had been setting price ceilings on food and that the price ceilings had caused shortages and hoarding. A January 22, 2008, article from Associated Press stated, \"Venezuelan troops are cracking down on the smuggling of food... the National Guard has seized about 750 tons of food... Hugo Chavez ordered the military to keep people from smuggling scarce items like milk... He's also threatened to seize farms and milk plants...\" On February 28, 2009, Chávez ordered the military to seize control of all the rice processing plants in the country temporarily and to force them to produce at full capacity. He alleged they had been avoiding doing so in response to the price caps.\n\nOn January 3, 2007, an \"International Herald Tribune\" article reported that Chávez's price ceilings were causing shortages of materials used in the construction industry. According to an April 4, 2008, article from CBS News, Chávez ordered the nationalization of the cement industry, which had been exporting its products to receive higher prices outside the country.\n\nThere is a substantial body of research showing that under some circumstances price ceilings can, paradoxically, lead to higher prices. The leading explanation is that price ceilings serve to coordinate collusion among suppliers who would otherwise compete on price.\n\nMore precisely, forming a cartel becomes profitable by enabling nominally-competing firms to act like a monopoly, limiting quantities and raising prices. However, forming a cartel is difficult because it is necessary to agree on quantities and prices, and because each firm will have an incentive to \"cheat\" by lowering prices to sell more than it agreed to. Antitrust laws make collusion even more difficult because of legal sanctions.\n\nHaving a third party, such as a regulator announce and enforce a maximum price level, can make it easier for the firms to agree on a price and to monitor pricing. The regulatory price can be viewed as a focal point, which is natural for both parties to charge.\n\nOne research paper documenting the phenomenon is Knittel and Stangel, which found that in the 1980s United States, states that fixed an interest rate ceiling of 18 percent had firms charing a rate only slightly below the ceiling. However states without an interest rate ceiling had interest rates that were significantly lower. (The authors did not find any difference in costs that could explain the result.)\n\nAnother example is a paper by Sen et al. that found that gasoline prices were higher in states that instituted price ceilings. Another example is the Supreme Court of Pakistan's decision regarding fixing a ceiling price for sugar at 45 Pakistani rupees per kilogram. Sugar disappeared from the market because of a cartel of sugar producers and the failure of the Pakistani government to maintain supply even in the stores that it owned. The imported sugar required time to reach the country, and it could be sold at the rate fixed by the Supreme Court of Pakistan. Eventually, the government went for a review petition in the Supreme Court and obtained the withdrawal of the earlier decision of the apex court. Eventually, the market equilibrium was achieved at 55 to 60 rupees per kilogram.\n"}
{"id": "20302725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20302725", "title": "Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.", "text": "Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\n\nQuanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc., 553 U.S. 617 (2008), is a decision of the United States Supreme Court in which the Court reaffirmed the validity of the patent exhaustion doctrine, and in doing so made uncertain the continuing precedential value of a line of decisions in the Federal Circuit that had sought to limit Supreme Court exhaustion doctrine decisions to their facts and to require a so-called “rule of reason” analysis of all post-sale restrictions other than tie-ins and price fixes. In the course of restating the patent exhaustion doctrine, the Court held that the exhaustion doctrine is triggered by, among other things, an authorized sale of a component when the only reasonable and intended use of the component is to practice the patent and the component substantially embodies the patented invention by embodying its essential features. The Court also overturned, in passing, the part of decision below that held that the exhaustion doctrine was limited to product claims and did not apply to method claims.\n\nLG Electronics (LGE) owned several patents on methods and systems for processing information. It entered into two contracts with Intel. In the License Agreement, LGE authorized Intel to make and sell microprocessor products using the patented inventions. Moreover, the License Agreement expressly stated that no license was granted to any third party for combining licensed products with other products (for example, for combining Intel microprocessor products with other parts of a computer). The License Agreement also provided, however, “Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the parties agree that nothing herein shall in any way limit or alter the effect of patent exhaustion that would otherwise apply when a party hereto sells any of its Licensed Products.”\n\nIn the Master Agreement, LGE required Intel to give its customers notice that the patent license does not extend to any product made by combining a licensed Intel microprocessor product with any other product (for example, a computer containing the Intel microprocessor products). The Master Agreement also provided that its breach would have no effect on the License Agreement and would not be grounds for its termination. Apparently, LGE was willing to allow Intel's customers to combine the microprocessor products with products not licensed by LGE, but only upon payment of a further royalty to LGE for the right to do so. This point is not discussed in the Court's opinion, which recites the facts only in very limited terms because the record was under seal to protect trade secrets.\n\nQuanta Computer purchased licensed Intel microprocessor products and proceeded to manufacture computers containing them. In doing so, Quanta followed Intel's specifications, which in turn led to practice of the patented methods and making the patented systems that LGE licensed to Intel––since that was the way Intel had designed its microprocessor products. (The trial court found that the Intel microprocessor products were without any reasonable noninfringing use.) LGE then sued Quanta for patent infringement.\n\nQuanta prevailed in the district court under the exhaustion doctrine, but on appeal the Federal Circuit held that the exhaustion doctrine did not apply because of the statement in the Master Agreement that combination products were not licensed, given the Federal Circuit's 1992 ruling in \"Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc.\" that a seller of patented goods could by notice impose a post-sale restraint on its customer's use of the goods. Additionally, the Federal Circuit held that the exhaustion doctrine did not apply, in any event, to method patents.\n\nIn \"Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc. \", the Federal Circuit had held that patent owners could condition the sale of patented goods with a restrictive notice and thereby restrict the disposition of the goods by the purchasers, with the exception of antitrust law violations, such as price-fixing and tie-in restrictions, or violations of \"some other law or policy.\" More specifically, the \"Mallinckrodt\" court had said, “Unless the condition violates some other law or policy (in the patent field, notably the misuse or antitrust law),” patent owners, licensees and downstream purchasers \"retain the freedom to contract concerning conditions of sale.\" \n\nThe Federal Circuit went on to say that \"[t]he appropriate criterion” in determining whether \"a restriction or condition . . . placed upon the sale of a patented article\" is valid \"is whether [the patentee's or licensor's] restriction is reasonably within the patent grant, or whether the patentee has ventured beyond the patent grant and into behavior having an anticompetitive effect not justifiable under the rule of reason.” According to the court, the tests for restrictions and misuse were alike, outside the tie-in and price fixing area: “To sustain a misuse defense involving a licensing arrangement not held to have been per se anticompetitive by the Supreme Court, a factual determination must reveal that the overall effect of the license tends to restrain competition unlawfully in an appropriately defined relevant market.”\n\nBut this Federal Circuit test is contrary to many decisions of both the Supreme Court and other courts of appeals. For example, in \"Zenith Radio Corp. v. Hazeltine Research, Inc.\", the Supreme Court addressed the legality of licenses under which royalties were paid on total sales of all products, irrespective of whether the licensor's patents covered all products. The Court held that such licensing was permissible when the licensor and licensee adopted it for mutual convenience to simplify administration of the license, but it was impermissible for the licensor to insist upon it over the licensee's opposition. Such conduct was misuse, the Court held, but not an antitrust violation unless the other elements of an antitrust violation were also shown, such as market power. \n\nEarlier, in \"Brulotte v. Thys Co. \", the Supreme Court held that it was patent misuse if, without more, a patentee charged royalties that extended beyond the statutory term of the patent. In \"National Lockwasher Co. v. George K. Garrett Co.\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit held that a patentee misused its patent by requiring licensees to agree not to deal in the technology of the patentee's competitors. Thus, in these cases, among many others, the Supreme Court and other federal courts had found misuse in cases not involving price fixing or tie-ins, and had not required any rule-of-reason or relevant-market analysis.\n\nOther Federal Circuit decisions followed the \"Mallinckrodt\" approach, which was, at the very least, divergent from Supreme Court decisions. Accordingly, when \"certiorari\" was granted in \"Quanta\", it was widely surmised that the Supreme Court would overturn \"Mallinckrodt\", which many (including the United States Solicitor General Jeffrey Wall, viewed as inconsistent with Supreme Court precedent.\n\nThe Supreme Court unanimously reversed, in an opinion by Justice Thomas.\n\nFirst, the Court said, the distinction between method and product claims is insupportable. In \"United States v. Univis Lens Co.\", the most recent decision of the Court on exhaustion, some of the patents held exhausted were method patents. Earlier, in \"Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States\", some patents covered a method of combusting gasoline in an automobile engine––and the exhaustion doctrine was held applicable. Furthermore, because it is easy to write patent claims for the same invention either in method format or apparatus format, the exhaustion doctrine could easily be evaded if reliance on method claims was sufficient to avoid exhaustion: By “including a method claim for the machine’s patented method of performing its task, a patent drafter could shield practically any patented item from exhaustion.”\n\nThe Court then turned to the extent, if any, to which exhaustion of the patent rights on the microprocessor products exhausted patent rights relating to the combination products on which LGE had patents. In the \"Univis\" case the sale that exhausted patent rights was a sale of an unpatented semifinished lens blank, which subsequent processing turned into a patented finished lens. The Intel microprocessor products were finished commercial articles of commerce, but in this case the trial court had found as a fact that the microprocessor products had no noninfringing use, just as in the \"Univis\" case the semifinished lens blanks had no use but to be finished into the patented finished lens blanks. Therefore, the Court found \"Univis\" dispositive. In the \"Quanta\" Court's language, in \"Univis\" “exhaustion was triggered by the sale of the lens blanks because their only reasonable and intended use was to practice the patent and because they ‘embodie[d] essential features of [the] patented invention.’”\n\nLGE did not challenge the claim that the intended and reasonable use of the microprocessor products was to incorporate them into computers, but it claimed that some noninfringing uses existed: they could be sold overseas, as repair parts, or by disabling the features that made them patented. The Court dismissed these arguments. As for disablement, the Court asserted that the disabled device aspects (“features”) rather than the device that remained must have a noninfringing use, so that disabling them would cause them to have “no real use.” As for foreign or replacement use, the legal test to be looked to was whether the product would perform the patented method or embody the patented product, not whether the use gave rise to infringement liability.\n\nA further reason why sales of the microprocessor products exhausted LGE's patent rights was that “everything inventive about each patent is embodied in” the licensed Intel products, which “embody the essential features of the [licensed] patents because they carry out all the inventive processes when combined, according to their design, with standard components.” Any point of novelty—that is, respect in which the claimed invention departs from the prior art—is found in the licensed microprocessor products rather than in the combination product of which they are components.\n\nThis last aspect of the \"Quanta\" opinion is very similar to the doctrine of the Lincoln Engineering case, a doctrine that the Federal Circuit had previously held to be no longer authoritative. Under the Supreme Court's \"Lincoln Engineering\" doctrine, the combination of a newly invented device with a known, conventional device with which the new device cooperates in the conventional and predictable way in which devices of those types have previously cooperated is unpatentable as an “exhausted combination” or “old combination.” Thus, when the \"Quanta\" Court said that “everything inventive about each patent is embodied in” the licensed Intel products, which “embody the essential features of the [licensed] patents,\" the Court was, in effect, saying that the combination of a novel Intel microprocessor in a conventional manner with an old personal computer is an exhausted combination. Accordingly, no weight would be put on the fact that separate patents had issued to LGE on the inventive device and on the old combination that included it.\n\nLGE's argument for non-exhaustion sought to invoke the doctrine of \"General Talking Pictures Corp. v. Western Electric Co.\" In that case, the patentee had granted no license for “commercial” amplifiers. Therefore, when a manufacturer licensed only in the “non-commercial” field of use sold an amplifier to an accused infringer, who knowingly resold it in the commercial market, the manufacturer “could not convey to [the accused infringer] what both knew it was not authorized to sell.” By parity of reasoning, LGE said, it had licensed Intel only in the field of manufacturing microprocessor products for combination with specified products and not with other products. But the Court said that was not how LGE had drafted its license to Intel:\n\nLGE overlooks important aspects of the structure of the…transaction. Nothing in the License Agreement restricts Intel’s right to sell its microprocessors…to purchasers who intend to combine them with non-Intel parts. It broadly permits Intel to make, use, or sell products free of the patent claims. To be sure, LGE did require Intel to give notice to its customers, including Quanta, that LGE had not licensed those customers to practice its patents. But neither party contends that Intel breached the agreement in that respect.\n\nLGE points out that the License Agreement specifically disclaimed any license to third parties to practice the patents by combining licensed products with other components. But the question whether third parties received implied licenses is irrelevant because Quanta asserts its right to practice the patents based not on implied license but on exhaustion. And exhaustion turns only on Intel’s own license to sell products practicing the…patents.\nThe Court appears to be saying that LGE simply licensed Intel to make, use, and sell microprocessor products. LGE expressly stated that no license was granted to any third party for combining licensed products with other products; and LGE made Intel tell its customers about the absence of a license. But LGE did \"not\" say to Intel that LGE licensed Intel to make, use, and sell microprocessor products only in the field of microprocessor products combined with other LGE-licensed products (so-called Intel products). There was no explicit field-of-use limitation on Intel's manufacturing, using, and selling rights––no “magic words.” LGE came close––it said it was not licensing third parties to combine licensed product with other products, and it required Intel to notify customers of that––but LGE failed to go right to the point and expressly deny Intel any license to make microprocessor products that would be combined with other products. Furthermore, for some inexplicable reason the parties, with fatal effect, red-flagged the fact that there still was an exhaustion doctrine: “Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the parties agree that nothing herein shall in any way limit or alter the effect of patent exhaustion that would otherwise apply when a party hereto sells any of its Licensed Products.”\n\nThat this was a critical error (for LGE) is confirmed by the Court's final statements in its opinion:\nThe License Agreement authorized Intel to sell products that practiced the patents. No conditions limited Intel’s authority to sell products substantially embodying the patents. …Intel’s authorized sale to Quanta thus took its products outside the scope of the patent monopoly, and as a result, LGE can no longer assert its patent rights against Quanta.\nThus, the exhaustion doctrine governed what Quanta could lawfully do with what it bought from Intel. The failure to give third parties a license to combine Intel microprocessor product with other products had no legal significance, because the exhaustion doctrine obviated any need for such a license. Having bought the products from an authorized seller, Quanta didn't need any license.\n\nJust before closing, the Court added a final note pointing out that the case did not raise, and the Court did not rule on, whether LGE could have enforced a contractual restriction. In footnote 7, the Court commented:\nWe note that the authorized nature of the sale to Quanta does not necessarily limit LGE’s other contract rights. LGE’s complaint does not include a breach-of-contract claim, and we express no opinion on whether contract damages might be available even though exhaustion operates to eliminate patent damages.\nBy the same token, the Court said nothing as to specific performance or whether contract rights, if any, could be enforced against Quanta.\n\nThe impact of \"Quanta\" is problematic, largely because the decision avoided deciding many issues, presumably in the interest of maintaining consensus. (The decision was unanimous.) One academic commented:\nIt is a very disappointing decision from the Court. It decided so little, and it was such an important case. You are left reading tea leaves.\n\nThe Court's failure to approve or reject the precedent on which the Federal Circuit had relied in its decision in \"Quanta\", \"Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc.\", which had limited the applicability of the exhaustion doctrine when a sale was made \"conditional,\" further contributed to business uncertainty about permissible license restrictions. But, as one commentator observed:\nThe Supreme Court, in \"Quanta\", was widely expected to rule on whether \"Mallinckrodt\" was good law. But the Court sidestepped the issue by narrowly interpreting the license agreement so that it was not a conditional license. ...Because the Supreme Court sidestepped the issue, it remains unclear to what extent a patentee can use a conditional license to impose restrictions on downstream purchasers.\n\nTo be sure, in \"Quanta\", the Court held that “[t]he longstanding doctrine of patent exhaustion provides that the initial authorized sale of a patented item terminates all patent rights to that item.” But what constitutes \"authorization\"? The Court did not address the issue of \"constructive\" authorization—that is, authorization as a matter of law in certain circumstances, whether or not the patentee or licensor likes it or even tries very hard to avoid it. Accordingly, it is uncertain to what extent \"Quanta\" undoes \"Mallinckrodt\". That seems to be the unstated message in \"Quanta\", but the Federal Circuit may take an impenitent view, in defiance of the Solicitor General's views as \"amicus\".\n\nThere are a number of important issues that the Court did not address in \"Quanta\". One such omission is the Court's failure to say anything about the other possible formats that this transaction might have used—such as a sale by a manufacturing licensee with a limitation on its grant, or (alternatively) a sale by the patentee or its licensee with explicit restrictions imposed on the buyer's freedom to dispose of the product. The Court did not explain whether or in what circumstances these other formats would be legally effective.\n\nThe first of these possible formats follows the pattern of the \"General Talking Pictures\" case. The second format follows the pattern of the \"Mallinckrodt\" case. Under the \"General Talking Pictures\" doctrine, a patentee may limit the scope of a manufacturer-licensee's license to a defined field—such as microprocessors not incorporated into computers—and then the use of those micropressors as computer components is a patent infringement. This is the format that LGE mistakenly thought it was using. Under the \"Mallinckrodt\" doctrine, a sale of a patented product subject to a restriction—such as you must not sell this microprocessor for use as a computer component—is a \"conditional,\" rather than \"unconditional,\" sale. If the condition is violated the conduct is patent infringement. The exhaustion doctrine does not apply under the rule stated in \"Mallinkrodt\". However, as \"Quanta\" seemingly holds, when a restriction is not \"clearly and explicitly stated\" the exhaustion doctrine applies.\n\nIn a brief to the Supreme Court (at its request) when the petition for writ of certiorari was pending, the US Solicitor General observed that a curious \"anomaly\" existed between the exhaustion doctrine and \"General Talking Pictures\" doctrine:\n[T]here is a seeming anomaly in allowing a patentee to achieve indirectly –- through an enforceable condition on the licensee –– a limitation on use or resale that [because of the exhaustion doctrine] the patentee could not itself impose on a direct purchaser, [yet] the distinction is a necessary and explicable result of the Court’s decision in \"General Talking Pictures\".\nFor reasons that so far have not been explained in any publicly available document, the Government deleted this passage from its subsequent brief on the merits. As the Government brief suggested, on the one hand, the exhaustion doctrine prohibits post-sale restraints on a patentee's (or its licensee's) sale of goods, while on the other hand \"General Talking Pictures\" permits a patentee to place post-sale limitations on its manufacturing licensee's sale of goods \"if the license to manufacture uses the right, magic words\". Nothing in the \"Quanta\" opinion addresses this \"seeming anomaly,\" much less attempts to resolve it or synthesize the competing doctrines.\n\nThe Court, in a footnote quoted above (the Court's note 7), expressly refrained from stating any of the following: whether contractual language could overcome, or prevent triggering, the exhaustion doctrine; if so, what language would be effective to do so; and whether the surrounding circumstances would be relevant.\n\nTo the extent that the exhaustion doctrine is grounded in considerations of public policy, and to the extent that the interests of the public and third parties (such as Quanta in the \"Quanta\" case) are to be considered as well as those of the contracting parties, the courts may be more likely to place limits on whether the parties can by contract make the doctrine inapplicable to the goods that are the subject of their contract. On the other hand, if the policy of the exhaustion doctrine is seen merely as a rule to make sure that downstream purchasers get fair notice that their use of goods whose purchase they are considering will be restricted, courts may be more likely to uphold such restrictions unless they collide with other policies, such as those of competition or antitrust law.\n\nThe Court explicitly refused to consider this issue in \"Quanta\". The \"Quanta\" court did make clear, however, that it recognized the fundamental difference in law between a sale of patented goods by a patentee and a patentee's license of another to manufacture the patented goods, which the Supreme Court had explained in \"United States v. General Electric Co.\" At the same time, the Court made it clear that LGE had failed to license Intel (the seller to Quanta) in language that invoked the \"General Talking Pictures\" doctrine, which could have changed the outcome, as discussed above in the section of this article captioned “Licensing a limited field.”\n\nThe House of Lords considered whether contract could trump the similar doctrine against derogation from title in \"British Leyland Motor Corp. v. Armstrong Patents Co.\". This is the doctrine that a seller may not successfully take actions, such as enforcing an intellectual property right, that decrease the value of what the seller has sold to a purchaser. The House of Lords ruled that contract could not be used to lessen the rights of end user purchasers, at least purchasers of consumer products such as motor cars.\n\nIn \"Static Control Components, Inc. v. Lexmark Int’l, Inc.\", 615 F.Supp.2d 575 (E.D. Ky, 2009), the district court reconsidered its former decision in this case and granted a judgment as a matter of law (JMOL) in favor of the accused infringer. The court said that the Supreme Court's \"Quanta\" decision “has changed the landscape of the doctrine of patent exhaustion generally, and specifically” required a reversal of the judgment, so that SCCI was not liable to Lexmark for patent infringement.\n\nLexmark had sought to restrict the refilling of its toner cartridges by relying on the \"Mallinckrodt\" doctrine. However, it did not enter into any conventional bilateral contract selling the toner cartridges to the public on a “conditional sale” basis. Instead, Lexmark relied on “shrinkwrap licenses,” and restrictive notices accompanying the products. The court considered these ineffective to prevent application of the exhaustion doctrine, despite \"Mallinckrodt\"’s approval of their use.\n\nThe court acknowledged that, “[a]s Lexmark points out, the Supreme Court did not expressly overrule \"Mallinckrodt\" in its \"Quanta\" opinion.” Nonetheless, the court concluded:\nAfter reviewing \"Quanta\", \"Mallinckrodt\", and the parties' arguments, this Court is persuaded that \"Quanta\" overruled \"Mallinckrodt sub silentio\". The Supreme Court's broad statement of the law of patent exhaustion simply cannot be squared with the position that the \"Quanta\" holding is limited to its specific facts. Further, the Federal Circuit relied in part on \"Mallinckrodt\" in reaching its decision in \"LG Electronics, Inc. v. Bizcom Electronics, Inc\"., 453 F.3d 1364, 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2006), the decision the Supreme Court reversed in \"Quanta\". It is also worth noting that the \"Quanta\" decision did not mention a single Federal Circuit case.\nOn the other hand, the court did not consider \"Quanta\" to have foreclosed the enforcement of the shrinkwrap restrictions under state contract law. The contract law aspects of the case became moot, however, because Lexmark voluntarily dismissed its claims based on Static Control's tortious interference with contract.\n\nIn April 2015, the Federal Circuit \"sua sponte\" called for briefing and \"amicus curiae\" participation in an \"en banc\" consideration of whether \"Mallinckrodt\" should be overruled in light of the recent Supreme Court decision in the \"Quanta\" case. The court ordered:\nIn light of \"Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\", 553 U.S. 617 (2008), should this court overrule \"Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc.\", 976 F.2d 700 (Fed. Cir. 1992), to the extent it ruled that a sale of a patented article, when the sale is made under a restriction that is otherwise lawful and within the scope of the patent grant, does not give rise to patent exhaustion?\n"}
{"id": "39216429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39216429", "title": "Ralph Spearow", "text": "Ralph Spearow\n\nAlbert Ralph Spearow (October 3, 1895 – December 17, 1980) was an American pole vaulter. He placed 6th in his speciality at the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris; later that year, he exceeded Charles Hoff's world record in Tokyo, but his mark was never ratified.\n\nhttps://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Ralph_Spearow.jpg\n\nSpearow was born in LaGrange, Georgia, but became an athlete in Oregon, competing first for Multnomah AC and then the Oregon Ducks. Spearow was a versatile jumper, excelling not only in the pole vault but also the long jump and the high jump. While at the University of Oregon, he was also the regular pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Cottage Grove; after graduating, he left that post to become an insurance agent.\n\nSpearow placed 4th in the pole vault at the 1919 national (AAU) championship meet and became one of the first jumpers to clear 13 feet (3.96 m) in 1920. In 1922 he placed 2nd at the AAU championships, losing only in a jump-off to Edward Knourek.\n\nSpearow's best year was 1924, when he first broke the intercollegiate record with a jump of 13 feet, 2.95 inches (4.03 m) and then qualified for the US Olympic team. At the Olympic Trials in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Spearow and three others - Lee Barnes, James Brooker and Glen Graham - cleared 13 feet (3.96 m) to qualify for the Olympics. Of the four, Spearow had the best attempts at 13 feet 4 inches (4.06 m), getting over the bar twice but brushing it off on the way down both times. In the absence of Norway's world record holder Charles Hoff, Spearow entered the Olympics as the leading favorite. However, he injured his ankle in training ahead of the competition and only managed a disappointing 6th.\n\nAfter the Olympics, Spearow embarked on an exhibition and coaching tour in Japan with several fellow athletes. Near the end of the tour on November 5, in a meeting in Tokyo, Spearow had the best performances of his career, clearing first 13 feet 6 inches (4.11 m) and then 13 feet 10½ inches (4.22 m); the latter height exceeded Hoff's official world record of 4.21 meters. Spearow's jump has appeared in many listings of world record progressions since but has never received official recognition from the International Association of Athletics Federations.\n\nWhy the jump wasn't ratified as a record is unclear, with both contemporary and later sources providing contradictory explanations. Bill Bowerman claimed the jump was statistically valid but Spearow's lack of an AAU permit to compete prevented ratification. Track and field historian Richard Hymans quotes eyewitness Jonni Myyrä as saying the height Spearow cleared was found to be below the world record on remeasurement; however, Martti Jukola, also citing Myyrä as his source, claimed Spearow failed on his three official attempts and only made the height on an additional exhibition jump. The November 19, 1924 edition of the \"Eugene Guard\" referred to Spearow \"unofficially\" breaking the record, while the November 21 edition said Spearow \"tried for a world's vault record but failed by a scant margin.\"\n\nSpearow died in Portland, Oregon on December 17, 1980.\n"}
{"id": "56805621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56805621", "title": "Raynor, Nicholas &amp; Truesdell", "text": "Raynor, Nicholas &amp; Truesdell\n\nRaynor, Nicholas & Truesdell was a New York brokerage based on Broadway in the 1920s. It was a member of the Consolidated Stock Exchange, before failing on April 29, 1922. The failure resulted in a highly publicized lawsuit over whether the firm committed mail fraud and bucketing before failing.\n\nThe brokerage firm was founded in 1920 in New York. According to records, as early as November 21, 1921, Consolidated had discussed the firm's methods, as it was known for bucketing.\n\nAs of 1922, it was based at 42 Broadway and 30 East 42nd Street, and were members of the Consolidated Stock Exchange of New York. Firm members included D. C. Raynor, E. H. Truesdell, and B. J. Nicholas. The firm soon ran into financial difficulties. In November 1923 at the bankruptcy hearing, speculator Louis B. Appleton told that he and his brother Charles put up $50,000 before the failure as an advance to the firm, to help keep it afloat.\n\nThe firm failed on April 29, 1922. In October 1923, testimony about the firm revealed that it failed in April 1922 for $4,000,000, and that the committee of the Consolidated Exchange had been aware of its failing condition six weeks before that. The failure amount was in 1924 reported as \"more than $2,000,000.\"\n\nIn December 1923, De Witt C. Raynor was indicted by the Federal Grand Jury in connection with the failure, after testifying that May. When the hearing resumed the following June, he had disappeared, failing to answer to a subpoena. He was still missing by July 1923, when he should have surrendered for his arrest. On January 23, 1924, it was revealed after an examination of the books that Raynor, Nicholas Truesdell owed $1,250,000 to be divided among 2,500 customers, and had $80,000 in assets. That day, several curb brokers were called in to testify on their dealings with the firm's check history. On February 1, 1924, De Witt Raynor walked into the office of the United States Marshal in Havana and surrendered himself, disclaiming any voluntary violation of the law. On November 6, 1924, De Witt C. Raynor plead guilty before a federal judge on charges of conspiracy and using the mails to defraud. Other co-defendants at the time included William Silkworth, Louis Gilbough of Consolidated, Blaine J. Nicholas and Earl H. Truesdell, and several others including Peter Owens, office manager of the Raynor firm. Lawyer Peter McCoy was prosecutor.\n\nOn November 29, 1924, Silkworth and five others also found guilty of bucketing, with Silkworth convicted of mail fraud relating to his brokerage and Raynor, Nicholas and Truesdell in 1922. During the appeal process, McCoy gave testimony before the Circuit Court of Appeals that Raynor, Nicholas & Truesdell had engaged in extensive bucketing operations since its founding late 1920. McCoy further testified that Silkworth had provided the firm's bucketing operations with the protection of Consolidated. The Judge ruled against the motion raised by defendants, which was that bucketing did not have a Federal statute against it at the time, and ruled in favor of McCoy on February 1, 1926 with the November conviction upheld. Silkworth served three months of a year sentence in 1926, with other brokers also serving time.\n\n"}
{"id": "30054435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30054435", "title": "Revenue stamps of the United States", "text": "Revenue stamps of the United States\n\nThe first revenue stamps in the United States were used briefly during colonial times, among the most notable usage involved the Stamp Act. Long after independence, the first revenue stamps printed by the United States government were issued in the midst of the American Civil War, prompted by the urgent need to raise revenue to pay for the great costs it incurred. After the war ended however, revenue stamps and the taxes they represented still continued. Revenue stamps served to pay tax duties on items that came under two main categories, \"Proprietary\" and \"Documentary\". Proprietary stamps paid tax duties on goods like alcohol and tobacco, and were also used for various services, while Documentary stamps paid duties on legal documents, mortgage deeds, stocks and a fair number of other legal dealings. \"Proprietary\" and \"Documentary\" stamps often bore these respective designations, while in several of the issues they shared the same designs, sometimes with minor variations. Beginning in 1862 the first revenue stamps were issued, and would continue to be used for another hundred years and more. For the first twelve years George Washington was the only subject featured on U.S. revenue stamps, when in 1875 an allegorical figure of \"Liberty\" finally appeared. Revenue stamps were printed in many varieties and denominations and are widely sought after by collectors and historians. Revenue stamps were finally discontinued on December 31, 1967.\n\nThe first revenue stamps appeared in the years leading up to the American Revolution as a result of the 1765 Stamp Act, the taxes of which were not well received by the colonists of the day. These were the British colonial issues and required that many printed materials in the colonies be produced on specially prepared stamped paper produced in London which carried an embossed revenue stamp.\n\nIn August 1862, while the American Civil War was being waged, the United States (Union) government began taxing a variety of goods, services and legal dealings. To confirm that taxes were paid a 'revenue stamp' was purchased and appropriately affixed to the taxable item, which would in turn pay the tax duty involved.\n\nThe Commissioner of Internal Revenue took bids for the printing and production of the first U.S. revenue stamps in an effort to raise revenue for the great costs of the war. The Department of Internal Revenue awarded Butler & Carpenter of Philadelphia the printing contract who were paid $19,080 to produce one hundred and six printing plates, including the rolls, dies and all material necessary to maintain stamp production. Butler & Carpenter soon began producing the first revenue stamps which were issued for use beginning Oct. 1, 1862.\n\nFor reasons unknown the bill from Butler & Carpenter was never settled by the U.S. government until some years later, but not after Butler and Carpenter wrote and appealed numerous times to the commissioner of Internal Revenue, Hon. J.J. Lewis, about the matter. Because of the long wait involved one of the major points of contention was the appreciable amount of increase for materials between the time the agreement was made and when the bill was finally settled.\n\nThe new stamps were printed in several colors and depicted a portrait of George Washington on all thirty denominations from one-cent to $200. The engraved image of Washington was modeled after a painting by Gilbert Stuart. The first issues were printed on hard brittle paper and later printed on soft woven paper of varying thicknesses. Colors were generally dull for stamps printed before 1868. The stamps were issued in sheets perforated with 12 gauge perforations or 'imperforate', i.e.solid sheets with no perforations. Washington remained the only figure on the dozens of varieties issued up until 1874.\n\nThe new revenue stamps were used to pay tax on proprietary items such as playing cards, patent medicines and luxuries, and for various legal documents, stocks, transactions and various legal services. The cancellation of these stamps were usually done in pen and ink, while hand stamped cancellations were seldomly used and subsequently are more rare. When the Civil War ended it did not mean an end to revenue taxes as the federal government still had not paid the $2.7 billion debt it had acquired until 1883, at which time it finally repealed the excise tax. Three distinct revenue stamp series were produced to pay the taxes during that twenty one-year period.\nAmong the more notable instances of tax stamp usage occurred in the photography trade. As the Civil War progressed, the demand for photographs of family members, soldiers going off to war and returning war heroes increased dramatically, but not without the notice from the Federal government who saw the advent as an opportunity to raise much needed revenue for the war. On August 1, 1864 the Internal Revenue department passed a 'photograph tax' requiring photographers to pay a tax on the sale of their photographs. By 1864 there were no 'photography tax' stamps issued, so other stamps were substituted, typically, the proprietary or playing card revenue stamps was used, usually affixed to the back of the photograph. Already burdened with high overhead costs and scarcity of materials because of the war, large photograph companies organized and petitioned Congress, complaining that they were shouldering too much of the tax burden placed on the public. After exactly two years their constant efforts resulted in the tax being repealed on August 1, 1866. Several other widely used products, such as cotton, tobacco and alcohol, were also charged a \"proprietary\" tax which appreciably contributed to the revenues generated.\n\nThe first series of revenue stamps have two distinctive design types with each stamp designating the tax 'duty'. Designs for denominations 1-cent through 20-cents were simple, bearing a portrait of George Washington, while stamps with denominations 25-cents through 1-dollar are larger and have a more elaborate design and also designate the tax duty in a lower banner. Stamps with denominations of $1.30 were used to pay the tax duty for foreign exchange only, $1.50 for Inland exchange only while the stamps with denominations of $1.60 and $1.90 were for Foreign exchange only and oddly bear no duty designations in the stamp design. Denominations of 2-dollars through 10-dollars have tax duties designated in the lower circular banner surrounding Washington's portrait. Denominations of 15-dollars through 50-dollars have tax duties designated in the right side of the circular banner surrounding the portrait. The design used for the denomination is unique and is not used for any other denomination. \n\nVarious tax duties were only served by certain revenue stamps as some duties were only found on lower or higher denomination revenue stamps as the case may be. For example, revenue stamps with a designation for \"Playing cards\" occur only on denominations of 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 cents, while the 25-cent denomination revenue stamp is the only one whose designation specifies . A specialized stamp catalog is needed to see the different occurrences of tax-designation to denomination combinations. \n\nThe second issue of revenue stamps were \"Documentary\" stamps and issued in 1871. After the Internal Revenue received many reports of the fraudulent re-use of revenue stamps, typically with cancellation ink washed or otherwise removed from the face of the stamp, a letter of May 31, 1867 from government officials in Wall Street was sent to Internal Revenue commissioner E.A. Rollins expressing the concern that \"The U.S. government loses thousands of dollars daily by stamps being used a second time.\" The ordinary stamps in use at this time did not receive the cancellation ink very well, unless it was heavily applied. The letter advised that all stamps be printed in a pale yellow color. This particular suggestion however was not taken up by Butler & Carpenter, but instead, after a period of experimentation, they responded to the problem by producing stamps of a lighter shade and on a paper that more readily absorbed cancellation ink. The Internal revenue was frequently sending stamps suspected of having cancellation ink washed to the engravers and printers for inspection to determine if they had been tampered with.\n\nThe new paper was finally employed in stamp production in early 1869 and by 1871 a second series of stamps were issued, printed on a special patented \"chameleon\" paper containing silk fibers which can be seen in the paper with the naked eye. Still produced by Butler & Carpenter of Philadelphia, the entire second series, with the exception of the 200-dollar issue, were printed in the same bi-color combination, with the portrait of Washington printed in black and with the frame work in blue with various ornate and elaborate designs, popular during that period.\n\nThe highest values in the second issue of revenue stamps are 200-dollar (left) and the 500-dollar (right) stamps and are commonly referred to by collectors as the Small and Large \"Persian rug\" revenue stamps respectively, which are considered by many to be among the most colorful and elaborately engraved stamps in all of philately. Both the 200 and 500-dollar stamps were printed in very limited quantities. The 200-dollar small \"Persian Rug\" had a printing of 446 copies, with approximately 125 known surviving examples. The stamps were printed one to a 'sheet', with margins on all four sides with inscriptions on the two side margins. The only surviving full sheet of the small \"Persian rug\", was used to pay tax duties on the will of Erastus Corning, Sr. in 1872. The 500-dollar large \"Persian rug\" is indeed larger, measuring by 4 inches with only 204 stamps of this denomination ever issued. Because of their relatively large sizes and the subsequent large number of perforations on each stamp, and the fact that they were used on documents which were typically folded across the stamps, most examples exist with some sort of flaw(s) about the stamp paper. Printed by the Carpenter Printing company of Philadelphia, a 5,000-dollar design was also proposed and a trial color essay was printed, but it was never issued for revenue use so there only exists a .\n\nTaxes were commonly levied on alcohol and tobacco products and a variety of such stamps were printed for this purpose. Typically, the stamp would be affixed to a given product when the taxes were paid in such a way as to seal a given container, where upon opening, the stamp would be damaged. For example, revenue stamps for beer tax were issued to brewers in sheet form, where an individual stamp was cut from it and used as a seal over the opening in a barrel of beer. To access the beer the stamp would have to be punctured, thus prohibiting its reuse.\n\nBecause the second issue of revenue stamps were all printed in the same blue and black colors they were often difficult to distinguish at a glance by Internal Revenue employees. Subsequently, a third issue of stamps with similar designs and some variations as the second issue but with distinctive colors assigned to the various denominations was released between 1871 and 1872. Production of the third issue employed many of the same printing plates, engraved by J.R. Carpenter of Philadelphia, and were printed on the same special \"chameleon\" paper with silk fibers used in the printing of the second issue, with perf' 12 . Unlike many of the stamps in the second issue, the third issue does not designate any duty type in the stamp designs. Double transfers and inverted centers occur in nearly all the different denomination designs.\n\nBy 1875 the Internal Revenue awarded the contract to print for revenue stamps to the National Bank Note Company who prepared a second series of proprietary stamps. The new revenue stamps are commonly referred to as the \"second proprietary issue,\" and occur in 1-cent, 2-cent, 3-cent, 4-cent, 5-cent, and 6-cent denominations. Use of revenue stamps to pay proprietary taxes ended on July 1, 1883.\n\nIn 1875, the Internal revenue department issued a 2-cent revenue, depicting an allegory of \"Liberty\". Printing of this issue continued into 1878. This was the first U.S. Revenue stamp to be issued that did not bear the portrait of George Washington. The Liberty issue was printed on silk bluish paper. Two types of perforations were added, standard perforations with punctured holes, and rouletted. Stamps produced in 1878 were printed on double-lined watermarked paper. Quantities printed for this issue were great, totaling 228,351,689 stamps, which include both standard and rouletted perforations. The quantities of stamps issued with each type of perforation are not known.\nOn June 13, 1898, Congress passed the War Revenue Act of 1898 to provide badly needed funding for the Spanish–American War. The law was to become effective on July 1, 1898, leaving only seventeen days to produce the badly needed revenue stamps. In anticipation of the law's passage the Bureau of Engraving and Printing had already commenced work on the dies and printing plates for the new revenue stamps, however they were unable to issue the stamps when the law went into effect. To meet the demand for revenue stamps, existing stocks of standard postage stamps (issued in 1895–1898) were overprinted with the initials \"I.R.\" (i.e., Internal Revenue) for use as revenue stamps. Initials are faint on issues with denominations of 8, 10 and 15-cents.\n\nBecause of shortages of revenue stamps two shipping firms operating along the Erie Canal used the existing 1c Trans-Mississippi stamp issue which was approved by the Federal District Revenue Collector who commissioned the Purvis Printing Company to do the overprinting. They were ordered by L. H. Chapman of the Chapman Steamboat Line, which operated freight-carrying steamboats along the Erie Canal, making stops at Syracuse, Utica, Little Falls and Fort Plain. Only 250 stamps were produced. In addition 250 were printed reading \"I.R./P.I.D. & Son\", for P.I. Daprix & Son, which served different ports along the same waterway. In each case five panes of 50 stamps were overprinted with the initials \"I.R.\".\n\nIn the continuation of providing funding for the Spanish–American War Congress authorized a tax on a wide range of goods and services including various alcohol and tobacco products, tea and other amusements and also on various legal and business transactions (such as Stock certificates, bills of lading, manifests, and marine insurance). To pay these tax duties\nrevenue tax stamps were purchased and affixed to the taxable item or respective certificate. There are seventeen stamps in this issue which occur in denominations ranging from ½-cent to 50-dollars which were printed on double lined watermarked paper. Two types of perforations were used: Rouletted perforations and 'hyphen' shaped perforations. Numerous double transfers occur (doubled image) in this issue.\n\n\nThe three \"Documentary\" stamps issued in the 1898 series (which were actually issued in 1899) feature the portraits of John Marshall, Alexander Hamilton and James Madison, each bearing the inscription \"Series of 1898\". These three designs were also used in the , 1917 printings and much later in 1940 issues, with slight modifications in the design. i.e.The inscription \"Series of 1898\" was removed. As an added security measure each of these high value stamps was given its own unique serial number. Produced by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing the issues of 1898 were printed on white wove paper and watermarked with the initials \"U.S.I.R.\" (i.e. United States Internal revenue) in block capital letters. The stamps were separated by rouletted perforations. The issues of 1917 and 1940 were also printed on double lined watermarked paper with standard gauge 12 perforations.\nIssues of 1914 were printed in two basic design types. Lower denominations (½-cent through 80-cents) printed with denomination encircled; Higher denominations (1-dollar through 50-dollars) printed with allegory of freedom in profile.\nDenominations from ½-cent to 80-cents were printed on both single line and double lined watermarked paper, while higher denominations were printed on double lined watermarked paper only.\n\nLower denominations range from 1-cent to 80-cents; Higher denominations range from 1-dollar to 1,000-dollars. Printed on single line watermarked paper, with gauge 10 perforations.\nDuring the period from 1940 to 1958 the Department of Internal Revenue released several hundred, \"Documentary\", revenue stamps in three basic designs with denominations that ranged from 1-cent to 10,000-dollars and with a variety of different portraits of notable statesman, each denomination of stamp bearing a different portrait. Almost all of the issues of this period were printed in \"carmine\" red. The higher denominations of 30-dollars to 10,000-dollars bore a unique serial number as an added security measure. A few reprints from 1917 were also issued during this period.\n\nAfter the tax laws were passed in 1862, private proprietors were allowed to furnish their own stamps, subject to the approval of the Internal Revenue and subsequently were granted a discount on the taxes paid for the goods they sold. Private stamps offered the advantage of having the proprietor's name depicted on the stamp. The proprietor paid the cost of engraving the die and the printing plates which in the beginning varied considerably. Some proprietors paid as little as $60 while others paid as much as $750. After June 1, 1863 a uniform cost of $350 was adopted for all dies with a couple of exceptions for large ones.\n\nMost of these stamps were printed by Butler & Carpenter of Philadelphia who also printed revenue stamps for the government. Since many stamps would be used to seal a container or packet they were often long in configuration and would be destroyed upon opening. Four types of paper were used to print private die proprietary stamps. They were printed on white, unwatermarked paper up until September, 1871, commonly referred to as \"old paper.\" Some of this paper contained sparsely scattered silk threads and is considered a minor variety or as \"experimental silk.\" The full \"silk paper\" contains numerous silk threads and was used between 1871 and 1878. \"Pink paper\" was also used for a brief period between 1877 and 1878. Watermarked paper, bearing the initials USIR was used from late 1877 to the end of the tax period in 1883. To help provide funding for the Spanish–American War the use of private stamps resumed again from July 1, 1898 until July 1, 1902. A variety of patent medicines, wines and other goods like perfumery and cosmetics were taxed, but only a comparatively small number of companies used private die stamps during this period.\nAs well as Federal revenue stamps, a wide range of state revenues were issued by the various states for various purposes, ranging from sales tax to duck hunting permits.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "392198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392198", "title": "Right-to-work law", "text": "Right-to-work law\n\nIn the context of US labor politics, \"right-to-work laws\" refers to laws (currently effective in 27 states) that prohibit union security agreements between companies and labor unions. Under these laws, employees in unionized workplaces are banned from negotiating contracts which require all members who benefit from the union contract to contribute to the costs of union representation.\n\nAccording to the Legal Defense Foundation, right-to-work laws prohibit union security agreements, or agreements between employers and labor unions, that govern the extent to which an established union can require employees' membership, payment of union dues, or fees as a condition of employment, either before or after hiring. Right-to-work laws do not aim to provide general guarantee of employment to people seeking work, but rather are a government ban on contractual agreements between employers and union employees requiring workers to pay for the costs of union representation.\n\nRight-to-work laws (either by statutes or by constitutional provision) exist in 27 U.S. states, mostly in the Southern, Western, and Midwestern states. Business interests represented by the United States Chamber of Commerce have lobbied extensively to pass right-to-work legislation. Such laws are allowed under the 1947 federal Taft–Hartley Act. A further distinction is often made within the law between people employed by state and municipal governments and those employed by the private sector, with states that are otherwise union shop (i.e., workers must pay for union representation in order to obtain or retain a job) having right to work laws in effect for government employees; provided, however, that the law also permits an \"agency shop\" where employees pay their share for representation (less than union dues), while not joining the union as members.\n\nAccording to \"Slate,\nright-to-work laws are derived from legislation forbidding unions from forcing strikes on workers, as well as from legal principles such as liberty of contract, which as applied here sought to prevent passage of laws regulating workplace conditions.\n\nAccording to \"PandoDaily\" and \"NSFWCORP\", the term itself was coined by Vance Muse, a Republican operative who headed an early right-to-work group, the \"Christian American Association\", to replace the term \"American Plan\" after it became associated with the anti-union violence of the First Red Scare. Muse used racist rhetoric in his defense of \"right-to-work\" laws.\n\nAccording to the Conservative think tank, the American Enterprise Institute, the term \"right to work\" was coined by \"Dallas Morning News\" editorial writer William Ruggles.\n\nThe National Labor Relations Act, generally known as the Wagner Act, was passed in 1935 as part of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's \"Second New Deal.\" Among other things, the Act provided that a company could lawfully agree to be any of the following:\n\nThe Act tasked the National Labor Relations Board, which had existed since 1933, with overseeing the rules.\n\nIn 1947 Congress passed the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, generally known as the Taft–Hartley Act, over President Harry S. Truman's veto. The Act repealed some parts of the Wagner Act, including outlawing the closed shop. Section 14(b) of the Taft–Hartley Act also authorizes individual states (but not local governments, such as cities or counties) to outlaw the union shop and agency shop for employees working in their jurisdictions. Any state law that outlaws such arrangements is known as a \"right-to-work state.\"\n\nIn the early development of the right-to-work policy, segregationist sentiment was used as an argument, as many people in the South felt that it was wrong for blacks and whites to belong to the same unions. Vance Muse, one of the early developers of the policy in Texas, used that argument in the development of anti-union laws in Texas in the 1940s.\n\nThe federal government operates under open shop rules nationwide, but many of its employees are represented by unions. Unions that represent professional athletes have written contracts that include particular representation provisions (such as in the National Football League), but their application is limited to \"wherever and whenever legal,\" as the Supreme Court has clearly held that the application of a right-to-work law is determined by the employee's \"predominant job situs.\" Players on professional sports teams in states with right-to-work laws are thus subject to those laws and cannot be required to pay any portion of union dues as a condition of continued employment.\n\nTwenty-three states, as well as the District of Columbia, do not have right-to-work laws. \n\nOn November 18, 2016, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the right of local governments to enact local right-to-work laws in Kentucky, Ohio, and the other states of its jurisdiction.\n\nIn August 2018, 67% of Missouri voters rejected a right-to-work law with 33% voting in favor.\n\nThe first arguments concerning the right to work centered on the rights of a dissenting minority with respect to an opposing majoritarian collective bargain. President Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal had prompted many U.S. Supreme Court challenges, among which were challenges regarding the constitutionality of the National Industry Recovery Act of 1933 (NIRA). In 1936, as a part of its ruling in \"Carter v. Carter Coal Co.\" the Court ruled against mandatory collective bargaining, stating:\n\nThe effect, in respect to wages and hours, is to subject the dissentient minority ... to the will of the stated majority ... To 'accept' in these circumstances, is not to exercise a choice, but to surrender to force. The power conferred upon the majority is, in effect, the power to regulate the affairs of an unwilling minority. This is legislative delegation in its most obnoxious form; for it is not even delegation to an official or an official body ... but to private persons ... [A] statute which attempts to confer such power undertakes an intolerable and unconstitutional interference with personal liberty and private property. The delegation is so clearly arbitrary, and so clearly a denial of rights safeguarded by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, that it is unnecessary to do more than refer to decisions of this Court which foreclose the question.\n\nBesides the U.S. Supreme Court, other proponents of right-to-work laws also point to the Constitution and the right to freedom of association. They argue that workers should both be free to join unions or to refrain, and thus, sometimes refer to states without right-to-work laws as forced unionism states. These proponents argue that by being forced into a collective bargain, what the majoritarian unions call a fair share of collective bargaining costs is actually financial coercion and a violation of freedom of choice. An opponent to the union bargain is forced to financially support an organization they did not vote for, in order to receive monopoly representation they have no choice over.\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church discourages the joining of unions, citing the writings of Ellen White, one of the church's founders, and what writer Diana Justice calls the \"loss of free will\" that occurs when a person joins a labor union.\n\nProponents such as the Mackinac Center for Public Policy contend that it is unfair that unions can require new and existing employees to either join the union or pay fees for collective bargaining expenses as a condition of employment under union security agreement contracts. Other proponents contend that unions may still be needed in new and growing sectors of the economy, for example, the voluntary and third party sectors, to assure adequate benefits for new immigrant, \"part-time\" aides in America (e.g., US Direct Support Workforce).\n\nRight-to-work proponents, including the Center for Union Facts, contend that political contributions made by unions are not representative of the union workers. The agency shop portion of this had previously been contested with support of National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation in \"Communications Workers of America v. Beck\", resulting in \"Beck rights\" preventing agency fees from being used for expenses outside of collective bargaining if the non-union worker notifies the union of their objection. The right to challenge the fees must include the right to have it heard by an impartial fact finder. It should be noted that Beck applies only to unions in the private sector, given agency fees were struck down for public-sector unions in \"Janus v. AFSCME\" in 2018.\n\nStates enforcing union security provisions in union collective bargaining agreements generally have a higher cost of living, however, no systematic analysis identifies union security agreements as a significant cause of this variance.\n\nOpponents such as Richard Kahlenberg have argued that right-to-work laws simply \"gives employees the right to be free riders—to benefit from collective bargaining without paying for it\". In \"Abood v. Detroit BoE\", the Supreme Court of the United States permitted public-sector unions to charge non-members agency fees so that employees in the public sector could be required to pay for the costs of representation, even as they opted not to be a member, as long as these fees are not spent on the union's political or ideological agenda. This decision was reversed, however, in \"Janus v. AFSCME\", with the Supreme Court ruling that such fees violate the first amendment in the case of public-sector unions, since all bargaining by a public-sector union can be considered political activity.\n\nOpponents argue that right-to-work laws restrict freedom of association, and limit the sorts of agreements individuals acting collectively can make with their employer, by prohibiting workers and employers from agreeing to contracts that include fair share fees. Moreover, American law imposes a duty of fair representation on unions; consequently non-members in right to work states can and do force unions to provide without compensation grievance services that are paid for by union members. \n\nIn December 2012, libertarian writer J.D. Tuccille, in \"Reason\" magazine, wrote:\n\nI consider the restrictions right-to-work laws impose on bargaining between unions and businesses to violate freedom of contract and association. ... I'm disappointed that the state has, once again, inserted itself into the marketplace to place its thumb on the scale in the never-ending game of playing business and labor off against one another. ... This is not to say that unions are always good. It means that, when the state isn't involved, they're private organizations that can offer value to their members.\n\nThe unions also contend that the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation and National Right to Work Committee have received millions of dollars in grants from foundations controlled by major U.S. industrialists like the New York-based Olin Foundation, Inc., which grew out of a family manufacturing business, but now funds primarily conservative think tanks, media outlets, and university law programs.\n\nKahlenberg and Marvit also argue that, at least in efforts to pass a right-to-work law in Michigan, excluding police and firefighter unions—traditionally less hostile to Republicans—from the law caused some to question claims that the law was simply an effort to improve Michigan's businesses climate, not to seek partisan advantage.\n\nAccording to Tim Bartik of the W. E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, studies of the effect of right-to-work laws abound, but are not consistent. Studies have found both \"some positive effect on job growth,\" and no effect. Thomas Holmes argues that it is difficult to analyze right-to-work laws by comparing states due to other similarities between states that have passed these laws. For instance, right-to-work states often have some strong pro-business policies, making it difficult to isolate the effect of right-to-work laws. Looking at the growth of states in the Southeast following World War II, Bartik notes that while they have right-to-work laws they have also benefited from \"factors like the widespread use of air conditioning and different modes of transportation that helped decentralize manufacturing\".\n\nEconomist Thomas Holmes compared counties close to the border between states with and without right-to-work laws (thereby holding constant an array of factors related to geography and climate). He found that the cumulative growth of employment in manufacturing in the right-to-work states was 26 percentage points greater than that in the non-right-to-work states. However, given the study design, Holmes points out \"my results do not say that it is right-to-work laws that matter, but rather that the 'probusiness package' offered by right-to-work states seems to matter.\" Moreover, as noted by Kevin Drum and others, this result may reflect business relocation rather than an overall enhancement of economic growth, since \"businesses prefer locating in states where costs are low and rules are lax.\"\n\nA February 2011 study by the Economic Policy Institute found:\nA 2008 editorial in \"The Wall Street Journal\" comparing job growth in Ohio and Texas stated that from 1998 to 2008, Ohio lost 10,400 jobs, while Texas gained 1,615,000. The opinion piece suggested right-to-work laws might be among the reasons for the economic expansion in Texas, along with the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), and the absence of a state income tax in Texas. Another \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial in 2012, by the president and the labor policy director of the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, reported 71% employment growth in right-to-work states from 1980 to 2011, while employment in non-right-to-work states grew just 32% during the same period. The 2012 editorial also stated that since 2001, compensation in right-to-work states had increased 4 times faster than in other states.\n\nIn January 2012, in the immediate aftermath of passage of Indiana's right-to-work law, a Rasmussen Reports telephone survey found that 74% of Likely U.S. Voters disagreed with the question, \"Should workers who do not belong to a union be required by law to pay union dues if the company they work is unionized?\" but \"most also don't think a non-union worker should enjoy benefits negotiated by the union.\"\n\nIn Michigan in January through March 2013, a poll found that 43 percent of those polled thought the law would help Michigan's economy, while 41 percent thought it would hurt.\n\nThe following 27 states have right-to-work laws:\n\nIn addition, the territory of Guam also has right-to-work laws, and employees of the US federal government have the right to choose whether or not to join their respective unions. New Hampshire adopted a right-to-work bill in 1947, but it was repealed in 1949 by the state legislature and governor. The legislature of Missouri passed a right-to-work bill in 2017, but the law was defeated in a 2018 referendum before it could take effect.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "660608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660608", "title": "Right to a fair trial", "text": "Right to a fair trial\n\nA trial which is observed by trial judge or by jury without being partial is a fair trial.\nVarious rights associated with a fair trial are explicitly proclaimed in Article 10 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution, and Article 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights, as well as numerous other constitutions and declarations throughout the world. There is no binding international law that defines what is not a fair trial; for example, the right to a jury trial and other important procedures vary from nation to nation.\n\nThe right to fair trial is very helpful in numerous declarations which represent customary international law, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Though the UDHR enshrines some fair trial rights, such as the presumption of innocence until the accused is proven guilty, in Articles 6, 7, 8 and 11, the key provision is Article 10 which states that:\n\n\"Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.\"\n\nSome years after the UDHR was adopted, the right to a fair trial was defined in more detail in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). The right to a fair trial is protected in Articles 14 and 16 of the ICCPR which is binding in international law on those states that are party to it. Article 14(1) establishes the basic right to a fair trial, article 14(2) provides for the presumption of innocence, and article 14(3) sets out a list of minimum fair trial rights in criminal proceedings. Article 14(5) establishes the right of a convicted person to have a higher court review the conviction or sentence, and article 14(7) prohibits double jeopardy. Article 14(1) states that:\n\n\"All persons shall be equal before the courts and tribunals. In the determination of any criminal charge against him, or of his rights and obligations in a suit at law, everyone shall be entitled to a fair and public hearing by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal established by law. The press and the public may be excluded from all or part of a trial for reasons of morals, public order or national security in a democratic society, or when the interest of the private lives of the parties so requires, or to the extent strictly necessary in the opinion of the court in special circumstances where publicity would prejudice the interests of justice; but any judgement rendered in a criminal case or in a suit at law shall be made public except where the interest of juvenile persons otherwise requires or the proceedings concern matrimonial disputes or the guardianship of children.\"\nThe Geneva Conventions guarantee combatants the right not to be put on trial for fighting in a war – unless they commit a war crime (a grave breach) or other crime (e.g., captured behind enemy lines out of proper uniforms or insignia while carrying out espionage or sabotage operations). Most held under the Geneva Conventions are not accused of a crime and therefore it would be a war crime under the Geneva Conventions to give them a trial. This protection against getting a trial is fully consistent with human rights law because human rights law prohibits putting people on trial when there is no crime to try them for. The Geneva Conventions however guarantee that anyone charged with a war crime or other crime must get a fair trial.\n\nThe right to a fair trial is enshrined in articles 3, 7 and 26 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR).\n\nThe right to a fair trial is also enshrined in articles 5, 6 and 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights and articles 2 to 4 of the 7th Protocol to the Convention.\n\nThe right to a fair trial is furthermore enshrined in articles 3, 8, 9 and 10 of the American Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe right to equality before the law is sometimes regarded as part of the right to a fair trial. It is typically guaranteed under a separate article in international human rights instruments. The right entitles individuals to be recognised as subject, not as object, of the law. International human rights law permits no derogation or exceptions to this human right.\nClosely related to the right to a fair trial is the prohibition on ex post facto law, or retroactive law, which is enshrined in human rights instrument separately from the right to fair trial and can not be limited by states according to the European Convention on Human Rights and the American Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe right to a fair trial has been defined in numerous regional and international human rights instruments. It is one of the most extensive human rights and all international human rights instruments enshrine it in more than one article. The right to a fair trial is one of the most litigated human rights and substantial case law that has been established on the interpretation of this human right. Despite variations in wording and placement of the various fair trial rights, international human rights instrument define the right to a fair trial in broadly the same terms. The aim of the right is to ensure the proper administration of justice. As a minimum the right to fair trial includes the following fair trial rights in civil and criminal proceedings:\n\nStates may limit the right to a fair trial or derogate from the fair trial rights only under circumstances specified in the human rights instruments.\n\nIn the United States the right to a fair trial is sometimes illusory. For example, the United States Supreme Court said in \"Town of Newton v. Rumery\", 480 U.S. 386 that a prosecutor may threaten a person that he will take or withhold an official act and prosecute that person for crime unless that person disposes or parts with their right to peacefully and orderly petition the courts for a redress of grievances. For example, the \"Rumery\" court said when talking about an accused ″the public interest opposing involuntary waiver of constitutional rights is no reason to hold the agreement here invalid.″ Rumery did not receive nor waive their right to a trial during a criminal cause.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights have clarified that the right to a fair trial applies to all types of judicial proceedings, whether civil or criminal. According to the European Court of Human Rights, Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the fair trial rights apply to all civil rights and obligations created under domestic law and therefore to all civil proceedings (see \"Apeh Uldozotteinek Szovetsege and Others v. Hungary\" 2000).\n\nBoth the European Court of Human Rights and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights have clarified that the right to a fair trial applies not only to judicial proceedings, but also administrative proceedings. If an individual's right under the law is at stake, the dispute must be determined through a fair process.\n\nIn Europe special proceeding may also be subject to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In \"Mills v. the United Kingdom\" 2001 the European Court of Human Rights held that a court-martial was subject to Article 6 because of the defendants had been accused of what the court considered to be serious crime, assault with a weapon and wounding.\n\nThe African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) frequently deals with instances where civilians are tried by military tribunals for serious crimes. The ACHPR has held that on the face of it military courts to do not satisfy civilians' right to a fair trial (see \"Constitutional Rights Project v. Nigeria\"). In this respect the ACHPR has reaffirmed the right to counsel as essential in guaranteeing a fair trial. The ACHPR held that individuals have the right to choose their own counsel and that giving the military tribunal the right to veto a counsel violates the right to a fair trial.\n\nA fair trial might be impeded by:\n\nIn the Spanish legal justice system the examining magistrate is the head of the investigation of a specific crime and any other matters that may relate to that particular offence. The magistrate can be aided by the judicial and national police and can also, at the request of the prosecution and defence attorney, follow any number of leads regarding the case. The magistrate can also, when deemed appropriate, restrict the access the defence and prosecution have to the primary evidence and case information, which can include allowing witness statements to be introduced without the actual witness having to be in attendance. An extension of this power is the ability for the judge to declare, under special circumstances, the trial wholly or partially confidential. However, this is only when information and evidence presented during the trial could pose a threat to an individual, a group of individuals or even the general interest of the public.\n\nBetween 1971 and 1975, the right to a fair trial was suspended in Northern Ireland. Suspects were simply imprisoned without trial, and interrogated by the British army for information. This power was mostly used against the Catholic minority. The British government supplied deliberately misleading evidence to the European Court of Human Rights when it investigated this issue in 1978. The Irish government and human rights group Amnesty International requested that the ECHR reconsider the case in December 2014. Three court cases related to the Northern Ireland conflict that took place in mainland Britain in 1975 and 1976 have been accused of being unfair, resulting in the false imprisonment of the Birmingham Six, Guildford Four and Maguire Seven. These convictions were later overturned, though an investigation into allegations that police officers perverted the course of justice failed to convict anyone of wrongdoing.\n\nThe United Kingdom created an act – the Special Immigration Appeals Act in 1997, which then led to the creation of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission (SIAC). It allowed for secret evidence to be stated in court; however, it provides provisions for the anonymity of the sources and information itself. The judge has the power to clear the courtroom of the public and press, and the appellant if need be, if sensitive information must be relayed. The appellant is provided with a Special Advocate, who is appointed in order to represent their interests, however no contact can be made with the appellant after seeing the secret evidence. SIAC is mostly used for deportation cases, and other cases of public interest.\n\nSecret evidence has seen increased use in UK courts. Some argue that this undermines the British criminal justice system, as this evidence may not come under proper democratic scrutiny. Secret evidence can now be used in wide range of cases including deportations hearings, control orders proceedings, parole board cases, asset-freezing applications, pre-charge detention hearings in terrorism cases, employment tribunals and planning tribunals.\n\nThe rationale for a jury was that it offers a check against state power.\n\nUnder Article 6 of the ECHR, the right to a fair trial implies that accused and public must be able to understand the verdict. Trials decided by jury, as they do not provide reasons for their decision, therefore do not allow for this. In Taxquet v Belgium a violation of article 6(1) was found. The court also implied a right to a reasoned verdict, irrespective of whether that was given by a judge or a jury.\n\nUnder ECHR case law, jury decisions can also be problematic in circumstances where juries draw adverse inferences from trial judges' directions in contravention of Article 6(3) (b) and (c).\n\nEU member states that do not have a jury system or any other form of lay adjudication in criminal matters or have abolished it include: Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Romania. In these countries, criminal courts are composed exclusively of judges.\n\nEU member states with a collaborative jury system which comprises a combination of jurors and judge include Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Norway (in most cases), Poland, Portugal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Sweden. The collaborative system, which can also be employed alongside the traditional jury model, is characterised by the professional judges and the jurors collectively determining all questions of law and fact, the issue of guilt and the sentence.\n\nWithin the EU, the traditional jury system exists within Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Malta, Norway (only in serious appeal cases), Spain and the United Kingdom (England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland).\n\nWith the expansion of the EU, It is seen as problematic that juries are used, given that their use cannot ensure all the guarantees set out under Article 6, particularly in the ever-expanding landscape and corpus of European law.\n\nThe issue of children and juvenile engagement with court proceedings and the criminal justice system is a contemporary issue when dealing with the human right of a fair trial. Juveniles need to be competent to stand trial and be able to comprehend the proceedings for their criminal trial to be considered a fair trial. This stands as a contentious issue because many argue that it may never be fair for children to have a role in trial or be involved in criminal justice proceedings due to their age, inability to grasp legal concepts etc. \n\nIn discussing children in the legal system, the Netherlands and Sweden provide for an intriguing contrast, which assists in understanding of the different punitive measures applicable. In Sweden, children under the age of 15 are not held accountable for the crimes, which they may have committed. Young people aged between 15 and 18 are generally sentenced to a fine or placed in a social services care agreement by order of the court. This care can often be in combination with fines or additional community service.\n\nIt is a rare occurrence for young people to be sentenced to imprisonment. For the most serious crimes, such as murder and manslaughter, the penalty may be institutionalisation at a specialised youth home. The National Board of Institutional Care is responsible to enforce these sentences. This punishment is for a fixed term, and its focus is on care, treatment and the rehabilitation of young offenders. By contrast, the age of criminal responsibility in the Netherlands is 12. A specialised youth police and courts system was reintroduced in the Netherlands, in order to provide for a specialised task force to deal with youth crime. At the age of 16, an offender who commits crime may be tried in an adult court. The ‘stop and halt’ program is also aimed at punishing young offenders. Younger children under the age of 12 can be ‘stopped’ when they offend, with the main aim at confronting the onset of delinquency. Older children (over the age of 12) can be ‘halted’, with successful completion meaning no criminal record and no prosecution for the young offender in the hope of rehabilitation.\n\nThe main difference between the Netherlands and Sweden in terms of children in court revolves around how the Netherlands tailors its law around its juvenile offence framework, meaning that each case is directly measured against that offender's individual circumstances. In Sweden, the court system for children is not tailored towards their individual needs, rather the framework of the juvenile court system is based on the adult court system. However, in Sweden, unlike in the Netherlands, the mitigating circumstance of youth applies in order to provide for a young offender's needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "38820670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38820670", "title": "Russell on Crime", "text": "Russell on Crime\n\nA Treatise on Crimes and Misdemeanours or Russell on Crime is a book originally written by William Oldnall Russell. For the purpose of citation, its name may be abbreviated to Russ Cr.\n\nRussell's \"Treatise on Crimes and Misdemeanours\", which appeared in 1819 in two volumes in octavo, was pronounced by Warren (Law Student, 2nd edit. p. 620) \"the best general treatise in criminal law\". A second edition appeared in 1827; a third, edited by C. S. Greaves, in 1843, with a supplement in 1851; a fourth, in 3 volumes, in 1865; and a fifth, edited by S. Prentice, Q.C., in 1877. The American editions, of which seven were issued between 1824 and 1853, do not reproduce the whole work.\n\nIn 1847, J G Marvin said of the third London and fifth American editions:\n\nThe most recent edition of \"Russell on Crime\" was the twelfth edition, which was published in 1964.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1550414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1550414", "title": "Safeguard", "text": "Safeguard\n\nA safeguard, in international law, is a restraint on international trade or economic development to protect communities from development aggression or home industries from foreign competition.\n\nIn the World Trade Organization (WTO), a member may take a safeguard action, such as restricting imports of a product temporarily to protect a domestic industry from an increase in imports causing or threatening to cause injury to domestic production.\n\nIn the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, safeguards are intended to protect indigenous peoples and other local communities with traditional knowledge of natural resource management within efforts towards reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation.\n\nThe WTO and UNFCCC concepts are related within international law.\n\nWith UNFCC processes, safeguards became of concern in the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference.\n\nWithin the WTO, safeguard measures were available under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) (Article XIX). However, they were infrequently used, and some governments preferred to protect their industries by \"grey area\" measures (\"voluntary\" export restraint arrangements on products such as cars, steel and semiconductors). As part of the WTO deal, members gave up the \"grey area\" measures and adopted a specific WTO Safeguards Agreement to discipline the use of safeguard measures.\n\nSafeguards are usually seen as responses to economic development and trade processes that align with international law, as opposed to negative practices, such as dumping or subsidies.\n\nIn the context of world trade, they are supposed to be used only in very specific circumstances, with compensation, and on a universal basis. For example, a member restricting imports for safeguard purposes would have to restrict imports from all other countries. However, exceptions to the nondiscriminatory rule are provided for in the Agreement on Safeguards itself as well as in some ad hoc agreements. In the last respect, it is worthwhile to note that the People's Republic of China accepted that discriminatory safeguards may be imposed on its exports to other WTO members until 2013.\n\nRegional trading arrangements have their own rules relating to safeguards. Some safeguard measures can be resorted to in the area of services, as provided for in the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155396", "title": "Separation of powers in Australia", "text": "Separation of powers in Australia\n\nThe doctrine of the separation of powers in Australia divides the institutions of government into three branches: legislative, executive and judicial. The legislature makes the laws; the executive put the laws into operation; and the judiciary interprets the laws. The doctrine of the separation of powers is often assumed to be one of the cornerstones of fair government. A strict separation of powers is not always evident in Australia; instead the Australian version of separation of powers combines the basic democratic concepts embedded in the Westminster system, the doctrine of \"responsible government\" and the United States version of the separation of powers. The issue of separation of powers in Australia has been a contentious one and continues to raise questions about where power lies in the Australian political system.\n\nAlthough it is assumed that all the branches under the separation of powers do not overlap, for example like the US, there is sometimes a 'common ground' between all three levels. In Australia there is little separation between the executive and the legislature, with the executive required to be drawn from, and maintain the confidence of, the legislature. In Victorian Stevedoring & General Contracting Co Pty Ltd & Meakes v Dignan the High Court of Australia held that a strict division between these two levels was not practical and re-affirmed the Constitution to outline this (German, 2012).\n\nThe first three chapters of the Australian Constitution are headed respectively \"The Parliament\", \"The Executive Government\", and \"The Judicature\". Each of these chapters begins with a section by which the relevant \"power of the Commonwealth\" is \"vested\" in the appropriate persons or bodies. The historical context in which the Constitution was drafted suggests that these arrangements were intended to be connected with federal ideas along American lines.\n\nOn the other hand, the Constitution incorporates responsible government, in which the legislature and the executive are effectively united. This incorporation is reflected in sections 44, 62 and 64 of the Constitution.\n\nCurrently, there is no constitutional system where there is a complete separation of powers. The strict doctrine exists only in a theory – in reality, some overlap is inevitable, though a system of checks and balances has developed. In the Westminster system, ministers (executive) are required to sit in Parliament (legislative). This is to adhere with the concept of Responsible Government. This is also present in the Australian system, being a requirement of section 64 of the Constitution.\n\nThe specific requirement for ministers to sit in Parliament established the connection between executive and legislative, effectively preventing an American-style separation of the two. Strictly speaking, any person may be appointed a Minister, but their appointment lapses if they do not gain a seat in either house of the Parliament within three months. This provision was necessary in 1901, as the first government was sworn in on 1 January but the first parliament was not elected until late March (see Australian federal election, 1901). No non-parliamentarian was appointed a Minister since then, until the appointment of Bob Carr as Foreign Minister in 2012. However, the provision is still relevant. It applies when a minister in the House of Representatives loses their seat at a general election; despite no longer being a member of parliament, the Minister will typically retain their portfolio for some days after the election, until the new government is sworn in. It also applied when John Gorton became Prime Minister in 1968; he was sworn in while a member of the Senate, then he resigned to contest a by-election for a lower house seat, which he won, but between his resignation from the Senate and being elected to the House of Representatives, he remained Prime Minister without holding any seat in Parliament.\n\nIn \"Victorian Stevedoring & General Contracting Co Pty Ltd v Dignan\", the High Court of Australia held that it was impossible, consistent with the British tradition, to insist upon a strict separation between legislative and executive powers. It was found that legislative power may be delegated to the executive, and as a result upheld the validity of delegated legislation. By contrast, in its insistence on a strict separation of \"judicial power\", the High Court has been less willing to compromise. Furthermore, the role of the courts was discussed in \"Kable v Director of Public Prosecutions (NSW)\", whereby a NSW statute was invalidated since it purported to confer not-judicial functions to court. The principle that a State Court cannot be assigned powers that are incompatible with its constitutionally protected independence was extended to Territory Courts in \"Ebner v Official Trustee in Bankruptcy\" (2000).\n\nThe executive is not only physically part of the legislature, but the legislature can also allocate it some of its powers, such as of the making of regulations under an Act passed by Parliament. Similarly, the legislature could restrict or over-rule some powers held by the executive by passing new laws to that effect, though these could be subject to judicial review.\n\nThe exceptionally strong party discipline in Australia, especially in the lower house, has had the effect of weakening scrutiny of the executive by the legislature since within the lower house, every member of the numerically larger party will almost always support the executive and its propositions on all issues.\n\nOn the other hand, the Senate has had the effect of restraining the power of the executive through its ability to query, amend and block government legislation. The result of the adoption of a proportional system of voting in 1949 has been that the Senate in recent decades has rarely been controlled by governments. Minor parties have gained greater representation and Senate majorities on votes come from a coalition of groups on a particular issue, usually after debate by the Opposition and Independents.\n\nThe Constitution does, moreover, provide for one form of physical separation of executive and legislature. Section 44, concerning the disqualifications applying to membership of Parliament, excludes from Parliament government employees (who hold \"an office of profit under the crown\" (iv)) along with people in certain contractual arrangements with the Commonwealth. This was demonstrated in 1992 after Independent MP, Phil Cleary, had won the Victorian seat of Wills. Cleary, on leave without pay from the Victorian Education Department at the time of his election, was held in \"Sykes v Cleary\" to be holding an office of profit under the Crown and disqualified. The Court noted that that Section 44's intention was to separate executive influence from the legislature.\n\nAs early as New South Wales v Commonwealth (\"The Wheat Case\"), the High Court decided that the strict insulation of judicial power was a fundamental principle of the Constitution. This also applies to tribunals and commissions set up by Federal Parliament which, unlike some of their equivalents in the states, can only recommend consequences. The Federal Parliament itself has the rarely used privilege of being able to act as a court in some circumstances, primarily where it may regard a non-member as acting \"in contempt\" of parliament.\n\nThe reasoning in the \"Wheat Case\" was taken further in \"Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia v J W Alexander Ltd\" where a decisive distinction between judicial and arbitral functions was drawn. The High Court made reference to the separation of powers again in R v Kirby; Ex parte Boilermakers' Society of Australia (\"Boilermakers' Case\"), highlighting that only a Chapter III Courts can exercise judicial powers and, that a Chapter III Court is only permitted to exercise judicial power.\n\nA consequence of the Australian version of the separation of powers is its role in encouraging judicial deference to the \"political\" arms of government. The normal propensity of the High Court is to recognise that separation of powers requires not only that the \"political branches\" should not interfere with judicial activity, but also that the judiciary should leave politicians and administrators alone. The importance of deference has been acknowledged in extrajudicial writings, and in decisions such as \"Drake v Minister for Immigration & Ethnic Affairs (No 2)\".\n\nAs a manifestation of the separation of powers, a 'Chapter III Court' cannot make administrative decisions. In administrative law this means that the courts cannot substitute an original decision of the executive, but can only decide on its correctness.\n\nThe doctrine of \"persona designata\" permits non-judicial functions to be conferred on judges in their personal capacity, as opposed to their judicial capacity. However, in \"Hindmarsh Island Bridge case\", it was held that this is subject to the compatibility of the conferred non-judicial function with judicial office.\n\nWhile there are strong textual and structural bases for the independence of the judiciary in the Commonwealth Constitution, the same is not true of the State constitutions. State courts, unlike their federal counterparts, are therefore capable of exercising non-judicial functions. For example, the District Court of South Australia, through its Administrative and Disciplinary Division, conducts merits review of administrative decisions, a function which at Commonwealth level can only be exercised by Executive tribunals. Nevertheless, a degree of judicial independence is maintained at State level by convention.\n\nThe federal separation of powers also has implications for State courts, due to the fact that State courts may be invested with federal judicial power under section 71 of the \"Commonwealth Constitution\". On this basis it was held in \"Kable v Director of Public Prosecutions (NSW)\" that a State court could not be given a function inconsistent with its status as a potential repository of federal judicial power. The doctrine was rarely applied in the early years following Kable, leading Justice Kirby to describe it as \"a constitutional guard-dog that would bark but once.\" However, there has been a revival in the High Court's application of the doctrine since 2009. One recent case was \"South Australia v Totani,\" which involved a challenge to the validity of the \"Serious and Organised Crime (Control) Act 2008\" (SA). Section 14(1) of the Act required members of the Magistrates' Court of South Australia to make control orders on application by the Commissioner of Police, provided only that the Magistrate was satisfied that the person subject to the control order was a member of a declared organisation. Even though the functions of the Magistrates' Court under the Act are purely a matter of South Australian law, the fact that the Court is also capable of exercising federal jurisdiction was held to require that it maintain certain standards of independence and impartiality so that it retain the character of a court.\n\nParliamentary scrutiny of the executive and, in particular, by the New South Wales Legislative Council, was tested in the 1990s when Treasurer Michael Egan, on behalf of Cabinet, refused to table documents in the Legislative Council of which he was a member. The Council, determined to exercise its scrutiny of the executive, pressed the issues and eventually adjudged the Treasurer in contempt, suspending him from the house twice. The matters were disputed in three cases in the High Court and the Supreme Court of New South Wales. The results upheld that principle that the Legislative Council does have the power to order the production of documents by a member of the House, including a minister, and can counter obstruction. However, the extent of the Legislative Council's power in relation to Cabinet documents remains unclear.\n\nIn 2018 the High Court held that all matters falling within section 75, and section 76, of the Constitution formed part of the judicial power of the Commonwealth, including a dispute between the residents of different States. It followed that the federal separation of powers meant that a State tribunal was unable to determine a dispute between residents of different States.\n\nOne of the bases for the separation of powers in the Constitution is that the powers of the Parliament are found in Chapter I, executive powers are in Chapter II and judicial powers are in Chapter III. In 1915 it had been held that the separation of powers precluded the exercise of judicial power by the Inter-State Commission, provided for at section 101, in Chapter IV Finance and Trade. The power to make laws for the government of the territories is found in section 122, located in Chapter VI New States. How section 122 relates to Chapter III is \"a problem of interpretation ... which has vexed judges and commentators since the earliest days of Federation\" Three of the six judges in the \"Stolen Generations case\", held that the separation of powers doctrine did not apply to the power to make laws for a territory under section 122 of the Constitution. The High Court went on to hold in 2004 that federal jurisdiction can be invested by the Australian Parliament in a Territory court as well as in a State court. In 2015 the question was again considered by the High Court where Gageler J, and Keane J, held that the power under section 122 was not constrained by the doctrine of separation of powers enshrined in Chapter III of the Constitution. Keane J similarly held . The other members of the Court, French CJ, Kiefel and Bell JJ, and Nettle and Gordon JJ, found it was unnecessary to answer the question.\n"}
{"id": "11683735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11683735", "title": "Taxation in the British Virgin Islands", "text": "Taxation in the British Virgin Islands\n\nTaxation in the British Virgin Islands is relatively simple by comparative standards; photocopies of all of the tax laws of the British Virgin Islands would together amount to about 200 pages of paper. Taxation in the British Virgin Islands is mostly notable for what is \"not\" subject to taxation. The British Virgin Islands has:\n\nThere is technically still income tax assessed in the British Virgin Islands for companies and individuals, but the rate of taxation has been set at zero. However, individuals are subject to a payroll deduction made of up to 8% for employees with 12% paid by employers, in relation to all salaries over US$10,000 per annum.\n\nThe absence of most major forms of taxation in the Territory has led to the country being included on most recognised lists of tax havens, although the jurisdiction prefers to style itself as a modern offshore financial centre.\n\nThere are a number of forms of taxation and revenue collection in the British Virgin Islands, but the majority of the Government's revenues are obtained directly from annual licence fees for offshore companies incorporated in the jurisdiction.\n\nIn 2005 the British Virgin Islands introduced a payroll tax in relation to employment and \"deemed employment\" within the British Virgin Islands. The legislation was brought in at the same time as income tax in the Territory was reduced to zero. The numbers were not in fact a perfect balance, and the Government (deliberately) reduced the amount of tax revenue it received by moving to the payroll tax system.\n\nThe tax is paid at a graduated rate depending upon the size of the employer. The current rates (as at June 2007) are 10% for small employers and 14% for larger employers. 8% of the total remuneration is deduction from the employee, the remainder of the liability is met by the employer. The first US$10,000 of remuneration are free from payroll tax.\n\nCertain limited transactions in the British Virgin Islands are still subject to stamp duty. The main application of the stamp duty legislation relates to transfers of real estate, or transfers of shares in companies which own real estate. The rate of stamp duty on such transactions varies according to the status of the transferee; if the transferee is a Belonger, then stamp duty on land transfers is assessed at 4%; if the transferee is a Non-Belonger, it is assessed at 12%.\n\nThe legislation also includes a number of \"rump\" taxes that were imposed many years ago and subsist only due to a lack of attention in relation to updating legislation; the amounts involved are tiny, and are never enforced in practice. For example, charterparties are technically subject to stamp duty at a rate of 50¢ in the British Virgin Islands, but despite the flourishing bareboat charter industry stamp duty is rarely if ever paid by charterers.\n\nSeparately, the British Virgin Islands also imposes various documentary duties which are described as being distinct from stamp duty on various classes of instrument:\nThe reason for not referring to these documentary taxes as stamp duty was that under the old International Business Companies Act (Cap 291), companies incorporated under that Act were exempt from stamp duty, and so to retain the payment obligations for those companies, they were referred to as 'cheque duty' and 'trust duty' respectively.\n\nReal estate in the British Virgin Islands is subject to nominal taxation. Because the amounts payable are so small, it is not uncommon for householders to not pay the tax at all, and then discharge all back taxes and penalties when they come to sell their property. The total tax on residential properties rarely exceeds US$100 per annum. The tax costs more to collect than it raises. During the Territory's last review of taxation, considerations were made to amend the law to \"reduce\" the amount of taxation collection due to a perception that it penalised second home owners (but not to abolish the taxes).\n\nAs with stamp duty, land tax rates are considerably higher for foreigners than for Belongers.\n\nHouse tax is paid at the same rate for all persons, and is it assessed at 1.5% of the annual rental value of the house. There is a general perception that rental values for owner-occupied homes tend to be assessed as being lower than their actual true market rental value.\n\nImports into the British Virgin Islands are, subject to certain limited exceptions, subject to import duty. Although this raises a modest amount of government revenue, it tends to be used as a political tool, and to prevent excessive competition with local retailers from the nearby U.S. Virgin Islands.\n\nIn common with most British Overseas Territories, the British Virgin Islands had the EU withholding tax imposed upon it in relation to interest payments in the jurisdiction which are payable to natural persons who are resident within the European Union. The withholding tax was not mandatory; depositors can elect not to pay it by agreeing to full disclosure of their account information to the revenue authorities in their country of residence. The implication is that the withholding tax is only applied to those who are not properly declaring their income in their home countries. However, payment of the withholding tax does not exempt the income from any applicable income taxes in the home jurisdiction; there is no double taxation relief under the relevant legislation.\n\nThe amounts raised by the EU withholding tax to date have been extremely modest. There are two likely reasons for this; firstly, for an Offshore Financial Centre, the British Virgin Islands has an underdeveloped banking infrastructure compared to (for example) the Cayman Islands or Jersey and so comparatively modest sums are deposited in the Territory's banks; secondly, the withholding tax only affects deposits held by natural persons - because most offshore tax structuring involves the use of either an offshore company or an offshore trust, this usually takes it outside the scope of the tax.\n\nThe EU Withholding tax was abolished in favour of disclosure of information with effect from 1 January 2012.\n\nThe British Virgin Islands has a number of other minor taxes and levies. These include:\n\nIn addition there are a huge number of miscellaneous Governmental fees and charges which are levied pursuant to the Statutory Rates, Fees and Charges Act, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "496983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496983", "title": "Territorial waters", "text": "Territorial waters\n\nThe term \"territorial waters\" is sometimes used informally to refer to any area of water over which a state has jurisdiction, including internal waters, the territorial sea, the contiguous zone, the exclusive economic zone and potentially the continental shelf.\n\nNormally, the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured is the low-water line along the coast as marked on large-scale charts officially recognized by the coastal state. This is either the low-water mark closest to the shore, or alternatively it may be an unlimited distance from permanently exposed land, provided that some portion of elevations exposed at low tide but covered at high tide (like mud flats) is within of permanently exposed land. Straight baselines can alternatively be defined connecting fringing islands along a coast, across the mouths of rivers, or with certain restrictions across the mouths of bays. In this case, a bay is defined as \"a well-marked indentation whose penetration is in such proportion to the width of its mouth as to contain land-locked waters and constitute more than a mere curvature of the coast. An indentation shall not, however, be regarded as a bay unless its area is as large as, or larger than, that of the semi-circle whose diameter is a line drawn across the mouth of that indentation\". The baseline across the bay must also be no more than in length.\n\nWaters landward of the baseline are defined as internal waters, over which the state has complete sovereignty: not even innocent passage is allowed without explicit permission from said state. Lakes and rivers are considered internal waters. All \"archipelagic waters\" within the outermost islands of an archipelagic state such as Indonesia or the Philippines are also considered internal waters, and are treated the same with the exception that innocent passage through them must be allowed. However, archipelagic states may designate certain sea lanes through these waters.\n\nTerritorial sea, as defined by the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, is a belt of coastal waters extending at most from the baseline (usually the mean low-water mark) of a coastal state. The territorial sea is regarded as the sovereign territory of the state, although foreign ships (military and civilian) are allowed innocent passage through it, or transit passage for straits; this sovereignty also extends to the airspace over and seabed below. Adjustment of these boundaries is called, in international law, maritime delimitation.\n\nA state's territorial sea extends up to from its baseline. If this would overlap with another state's territorial sea, the border is taken as the median point between the states' baselines, unless the states in question agree otherwise. A state can also choose to claim a smaller territorial sea.\n\nConflicts have occurred whenever a coastal nation claims an entire gulf as its territorial waters while other nations only recognize the more restrictive definitions of the UN convention. Claims which draw baseline in excess of 24 nautical miles (two 12 nm limits) are judged excessive by the U.S. Two conflicts occurred in the Gulf of Sidra where Libya drew a line in excess of 230 nm and claimed the entire enclosed gulf as its territorial waters. The U.S. exercised freedom of navigation rights twice, in the 1981 and 1989 Gulf of Sidra incidents.\n\nIn the U.S. federal system, individual states exercise ownership (subject to federal law) up to 3 nautical miles (9 nautical miles for Texas and Florida) from shore, while the federal government exercises sole territorial jurisdiction further out (see Tidelands).\n\nThe contiguous zone is a band of water extending farther from the outer edge of the territorial sea to up to from the baseline, within which a state can exert limited control for the purpose of preventing or punishing \"infringement of its customs, fiscal, immigration or sanitary laws and regulations within its territory or territorial sea\". This will typically be wide, but could be more (if a state has chosen to claim a territorial sea of less than 12 nautical miles), or less, if it would otherwise overlap another state's contiguous zone. However, unlike the territorial sea, there is no standard rule for resolving such conflicts and the states in question must negotiate their own compromise. The United States invoked a contiguous zone out to 24 nmi from the baseline on 29 September 1999.\n\nAn exclusive economic zone extends from the baseline to a maximum of , thus it includes the contiguous zone. A coastal nation has control of all economic resources within its exclusive economic zone, including fishing, mining, oil exploration, and any pollution of those resources. However, it cannot prohibit passage or loitering above, on, or under the surface of the sea that is in compliance with the laws and regulations adopted by the coastal State in accordance with the provisions of the UN Convention, within that portion of its exclusive economic zone beyond its territorial sea. Before the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, coastal nations arbitrarily extended their territorial waters in an effort to control activities which are now regulated by the exclusive economic zone, such as offshore oil exploration or fishing rights (see Cod Wars). Indeed, the exclusive economic zone is still popularly, though erroneously, called a coastal nation's territorial waters.\n\nArticle 76 gives the legal definition of continental shelf of coastal countries. For the physical geography definition, see the continental shelf \n\nThe continental shelf of a coastal nation extends out to the outer edge of the continental margin but at least from the baselines of the territorial sea if the continental margin does not stretch that far. Coastal states have the right of exploration and exploitation of the seabed and the natural resources that lie on or beneath it, however other states may lay cables and pipelines if they are authorised by the coastal state. The outer limit of a country's continental shelf shall not stretch beyond of the baseline, or beyond from the isobath, which is a line connecting the depths of the seabed at 2,500 meters.\n\nThe outer edge of the continental margin for the purposes of this article is defined as:\nThe foot of the continental slope is determined as the point of maximum change in the gradient at its base.\n\nThe portion of the continental shelf beyond the 200 nautical mile limit is also known as the extended continental shelf. Countries wishing to delimit their outer continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles have to submit scientific information for the basis of their claim to the UN Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. The Commission then validates or makes recommendations on the scientific basis for the extended continental shelf claim. The scientific judgement of the Commission shall be final and binding. If validated extended continental shelf claims overlap any demarcation between two or more parties are decided by bilateral or multilateral negotiation, not by the Commission.\n\nCountries have ten years after ratifying UNCLOS to lodge their submissions to extend their continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, or by 13 May 2009 for countries where the convention was ratified before 13 May 1999. As of 1 June 2009, 51 submissions have been lodged with the Commission, of which eight have been deliberated by the Commission and have had recommendations issued. The eight are (in the order of date of submission): Russian Federation; Brazil; Australia; Ireland; New Zealand; the joint submission by France, Ireland, Spain and the United Kingdom; Norway and Mexico.\n\nFor full list, see below\n\nArticles 77 to 81 define the rights of a country over its continental shelf.\n\nA coastal nation has control of all resources on or under its continental shelf, living or not, but no control over any living organisms above the shelf that are beyond its exclusive economic zone. This gives it the right to conduct hydrocarbon exploration and drilling works.\n\nFrom the eighteenth century until the mid twentieth century, the territorial waters of the British Empire, the United States, France and many other nations were three nautical miles (5.6 km) wide. Originally, this was the length of a cannon shot, hence the portion of an ocean that a sovereign state could defend from shore. However, Iceland claimed two nautical miles (3.7 km), Norway and Sweden claimed four nautical miles (7.4 km), and Spain claimed during this period. During incidents such as nuclear weapons testing and fisheries disputes some nations arbitrarily extended their maritime claims to as much as fifty or even two hundred nautical miles. Since the late 20th century the \"12 mile limit\" has become almost universally accepted. The United Kingdom extended its territorial waters from three to twelve nautical miles (22 km) in 1987.\n\nDuring the League of Nations Codification Conference in 1930, the issue of establishing international legislation on territorial waters was raised, but no agreement was reached.\n\nClaims by legislation to the adjacent continental shelf and fishing was first made by the United States government immediately following the Second World War. On September 28, 1945, US President Harry S. Truman issued two proclamations that established government control of natural resources in areas adjacent to the coastline. One of these proclamation was titled \"Policy of the United States With Respect to the Natural Resources of the Subsoil and\nSea Bed of the Continental Shelf\", and stipulated in its operative clause:\n\nthe Government of the United States regards the natural resources of the subsoil and sea bed of the continental shelf beneath the high seas but contiguous to the coasts of the United States as appertaining to the United States, subject to its jurisdiction and control.\nThe second proclamation was titled \"Policy of the United States With Respect to Coastal Fisheries in Certain Areas of the High Seas\", and stated in its operative clause:\n\nthe Government of the United States regards it as proper to establish conservation zones in those areas of the high seas contiguous to the coasts of the United States wherein fishing activities have been or in the future may be developed and maintained on a substantial scale.\nFollowing the US Presidential proclamation, the issue of legally determining territorial waters by international agreement was raised, and in its first session in 1949, the International Law Commission of the United Nations added the subject to its agenda.\n\nThe important issue of the breadth of territorial waters could not be resolved at either the UNCLOS I (1956-1958) or UNCLOS II (1960) conferences, with neither the two major contenders of a 3-mile or 12-mile limit reaching the required two-thirds support. This lack of agreement had the potential to lead to serious international disputes. It was only at the UNCLOS III (1973-1982) conference, whose provisions did not come into force until 1994, that this issue was resolved at twelve nautical miles.\n\nPirate radio broadcasting from artificial marine fixtures or anchored ships can be controlled by the affected coastal nation or other nations wherever that broadcast may originate, whether in the territorial sea, exclusive economic zone, the continental shelf or even on the high seas.\n\nThus a coastal nation has total control over its internal waters, slightly less control over territorial waters, and ostensibly even less control over waters within the contiguous zones. However, it has total control of economic resources within its exclusive economic zone as well as those on or under its continental shelf.\n\nThroughout this article, distances measured in nautical miles are exact legal definitions, while those in kilometres are approximate conversions that are not stated in any law or treaty.\n\nFederal nations, such as the United States, divide control over certain waters between the federal government and the individual states. (See tidelands.)\n\nMaritime controversies involve two dimensions: (a) territorial sovereignty, which are a legacy of history; and (b) relevant jurisdictional rights and interests in maritime boundaries, which are mainly due to differing interpretations of the law of the sea.\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of 13 May 2009, 51 submissions by 44 countries have been lodged for claims over their extended continental shelf. Some countries have multiple submissions and joint submissions with other countries. Recommendations have been given for 8 of the submissions.\n\nList with date of submission and adoption of recommendation by the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf.\n\n\nList in order of date of submission, with date of submission.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34543771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34543771", "title": "The WIPO Journal", "text": "The WIPO Journal\n\n\"The WIPO Journal: Analysis and Debate of Intellectual Property Issues\" was a peer-reviewed law review established in 2009 that was published by Sweet & Maxwell (a division of Thomson Reuters) on behalf of the World Intellectual Property Organization. Its editor-in-chief was Peter K. Yu. The WIPO Journal was discontinued at the end of 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "13977719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13977719", "title": "Treaty of Reichenbach (1790)", "text": "Treaty of Reichenbach (1790)\n\nThe Treaty of Reichenbach was signed on July 27, 1790 in Reichenbach (present-day Dzierżoniów) between Frederick William II of Prussia and Austria under Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II. The two countries tried to settle their differences, specifically Leopold attempted to be conciliatory toward Prussia, as Austria and Russia had recently made gains against the Ottoman Empire.\n\nBased on the terms of the treaty, Austria agreed to restore all conquered territories to the Ottoman Empire. Moreover, Austria agreed to grant the Belgians both amnesty and their old constitution. The Prussian statesman, Count Ewald Friedrich of Hertzberg, managed to insert a clause whereby Austria would be able to make small acquisitions of Ottoman territory. However, Austria must first receive permission from the Sublime Porte and must also allow Prussia to acquire an equivalent amount of Ottoman territory. Even though Austria had to relinquish its conquered territories to the Ottoman Empire, it was allowed to retain its garrison in Chotin. Moreover, the accord guaranteed protection of the Bosnian frontier. In return for these concessions, Prussia made herself responsible for several stipulated compensations. In another aspect of the treaty, Austria was not allowed to overtly or covertly support Russia in its campaigns against the Sublime Porte.\n\nDue to Leopold's diplomatic skill and sense of moderation, Austria attained a diplomatic victory through the treaty. In other words, the Treaty of Reichenbach helped to strengthen the level of respect Leopold received from foreign powers. Moreover, the accord helped Austria to focus on establishing peace within its own territories. Prussia, on the other hand, was forced to abandon its plans for expansion, as well as any attempts to acquire strategic benefits from Austria's losses. The Treaty of Reichenbach is seen by historians as a significant marker representing a Prussian retreat from the policies of Frederick the Great, as well as the beginning of Prussia's decline that found its nadir at the Battle of Jena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1150894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1150894", "title": "Victim blaming", "text": "Victim blaming\n\nVictim blaming occurs when the victim of a crime or any wrongful act is held entirely or partially at fault for the harm that befell them. The study of victimology seeks to mitigate the perception of victims as responsible. There is a greater tendency to blame victims of rape than victims of robbery if victims and perpetrators know each other.\n\nPsychologist William Ryan coined the phrase \"blaming the victim\" in his 1971 book of that title. In the book, Ryan described victim blaming as an ideology used to justify racism and social injustice against black people in the United States. Ryan wrote the book to refute Daniel Patrick Moynihan's 1965 work \"The Negro Family: The Case for National Action\" (usually simply referred to as the Moynihan Report).\n\nMoynihan had concluded that three centuries of oppression of black people, and in particular with what he calls the uniquely cruel structure of American slavery as opposed to its Latin American counterparts, had created a long series of chaotic disruptions within the black family structure which, at the time of the report, manifested itself in high rates of unwed births, absent fathers, and single mother households in black families. Moynihan then correlated these familial outcomes, which he considered undesirable, to the relatively poorer rates of employment, educational achievement, and financial success found among the black population. Moynihan advocated the implementation of government programs designed to strengthen the black nuclear family.\n\nRyan objected that Moynihan then located the proximate cause of the plight of black Americans in the prevalence of a family structure in which the father was often sporadically, if at all, present, and the mother was often dependent on government aid to feed, clothe, and provide medical care for her children. Ryan's critique cast the Moynihan theories as attempts to divert responsibility for poverty from social structural factors to the behaviors and cultural patterns of the poor.\n\nAlthough Ryan popularized the phrase, other scholars had identified the phenomenon of victim blaming.\nIn 1947 Theodor W. Adorno defined what would be later called \"blaming the victim,\" as \"one of the most sinister features of the Fascist character\".\nShortly thereafter Adorno and three other professors at the University of California, Berkeley formulated their influential and highly debated \"F-scale\" (F for fascist), published in \"The Authoritarian Personality\" (1950), which included among the fascist traits of the scale the \"contempt for everything discriminated against or weak.\" A typical expression of victim blaming is the \"asking for it\" idiom, e.g. \"she was asking for it\" said of a victim of violence or sexual assault.\n\nSecondary victimization is the re-traumatization of the sexual assault, abuse, or rape victim through the responses of individuals and institutions. Types of secondary victimization include victim blaming, disbelieving the victim's story, minimizing the severity of the attack, and inappropriate post-assault treatment by medical personnel or other organizations. Secondary victimization is especially common in cases of drug-facilitated, acquaintance, military sexual trauma and statutory rape.\n\nSexual assault victims experience stigmatization based on rape myths. A female rape victim is especially stigmatized in patrilineal cultures with strong customs and taboos regarding sex and sexuality. For example, a society may view a female rape victim (especially one who was previously a virgin) as \"damaged\". Victims in these cultures may suffer isolation, physical and psychological abuse, slut-shaming, public humiliation rituals, be disowned by friends and family, be prohibited from marrying, be divorced if already married, or even be killed. However, even in many developed countries, including some sectors of United States society, misogyny remains culturally ingrained.\n\nOne example of a sexist allegation against female victims of sexual assault is that \"wearing provocative clothing stimulates sexual aggression in men\" who believe that women wearing body-revealing clothes are \"actively trying to seduce\" a sexual partner. Such accusations against victims stem from the assumption that sexually revealing clothing conveys consent for sexual actions, irrespective of willful verbal consent. Research has yet to prove that attire is a significant causal factor in determining who is assaulted.\n\nVictim blaming is also exemplified when a victim of sexual assault is found at fault for \"performing actions which reduce their ability to resist or refuse consent\", such as consuming alcohol. Victim advocacy groups and medical professionals are educating young adults on the definition of consent, and the importance of refraining from victim blaming. Most institutions have adopted the concept of affirmative consent and that refraining from sexual activity while under the influence is the safest choice.\n\nIn efforts to discredit alleged sexual assault victims in court, a defense attorney may \"delve into an accuser's personal history\", a common practice that also has the purposeful effect of making the victim so uncomfortable they choose not to proceed. This attack on character, especially one pointing out promiscuity, makes the argument that women who lead \"high risk\" lifestyles (promiscuity, drug use) are not real victims of rape.\n\nFindings on Rape Myth Acceptance have supported feminist claims that sexism is at the root of female rape victim blaming.\n\nA 2009 study in the Journal of Interpersonal Violence of male victims of sexual assault concludes that male rape victim blaming is usually done so because of social constructs of masculinity. Some effects of these kind of rape cases include a loss of masculinity, confusion about their sexual orientation, and a sense of failure in behaving as men should.\n\nVictims of an unwanted sexual encounter usually develop psychological problems such as depression or sexual violence specific PTSD known as rape trauma syndrome.\n\nAn ideal victim is one who is afforded the status of victimhood due to unavoidable circumstances that put the individual at a disadvantage. One can apply this theory to any crime including and especially sexual assault. Nils Christie, a Norwegian criminology professor, has been theorizing about the concept of the ideal victim since the 1980s. In his research he gives two examples, one of an old woman who is attacked on her way home from visiting her family and the other of a man who is attacked at a bar by someone he knew. He describes the old woman as an ideal victim because she could not avoid being in the location that she was, she did not know her attacker, and she could not fight off her attacker. The man, however, could have avoided being at a bar, knew his attacker, and should have been able to fight off his attacker, being younger and a man.\n\nWhen applying the ideal victim theory to sexual assault victims, often judicial proceedings define an ideal victim as one who resists their attacker and exercises caution in risky situations, despite law reforms to extinguish these fallacious requirements. When victims are not ideal they are at risk for being blamed for their attack because they are not considered real victims of rape. Because they do not fit the criteria being laid out in the rape law, they cannot be considered real victims and thereby their attacker will not be prosecuted.\n\nA victim who is not considered an ideal, or real victim, is one who leads a \"high risk\" lifestyle, partaking in drugs or alcohol, or is perceived as promiscuous. A victim who intimately knows their attacker is also not considered an ideal victim. Examples of a sexual assault victim who is not ideal is a prostitute because they lead a high risk lifestyle. The perception is that these behaviors discount the credibility of a sexual assault victim's claim or that the behaviors and associations create the mistaken assumption of consent. Some of or all of the blame of the assault is then placed on these victims, and so they are not worthy of having their case presented in court. These perceptions persist in court rulings despite a shift in laws favoring affirmative consent- meaning that the participants in a sexual activity give a verbal affirmation rather than one participant who neither answers negatively nor positively. In other words, affirmative consent is yes means yes and no means no.\n\nIn addition to an ideal victim, there must be an ideal perpetrator for a crime to be considered ideal. The ideal attacker does not know their victim and is a completely non-sympathetic figure- one who is considered sub-human, an individual lacking morals. An attacker that knows their victim is not considered an ideal attacker, nor is someone who seems morally ordinary. Cases of intimate partner violence are not considered ideal because the victim knows their attacker. Husbands and wives are not ideal victims or perpetrators because they are intimately familiar with each other.\n\nMany different cultures across the globe have formulated different degrees of victim blaming for different scenarios such as rape, hate crimes, and domestic abuse. Victim blaming is common around the world, especially in cultures where it is socially acceptable and advised to treat certain groups of people as lesser. For example, in Somalia victims of sexual abuse consistently endure social ostracization and harassment. One specific example is the kidnapping and rape of 14-year old Fatima: when the police arrived, both Fatima and her rapist were arrested. While they did not detain the offender for long, the officers held Fatima captive for a month and a prison guard continually raped her during that time.\n\nIn February 2016, the organisations International Alert and UNICEF published a study revealing that girls and women released from captivity by Nigeria's insurgency group Boko Haram often face rejection by their communities and families. Their children born of sexual violence faced even more discrimination.\n\nAcid attacks on South Asian women, when people throw acid on women in an attempt to punish them for their perceived wrongdoings, are another example of victim-blaming. For instance, in New Delhi in 2005, a group of men threw acid on a 16-year-old girl because they believed she provoked the advances of a man. In Chinese culture, victim blaming is often associated with the crime of rape, as women are expected to resist rape using physical force. Thus, if rape occurs, it is considered to be at least partly the women’s fault and her virtue is inevitably called into question.\nIn western culture victim blaming has been largely recognized as a problematic way to view a situation, however this does not exempt westerners from being guilty of the action. A recent example of western victim blaming would be a civil trial held in 2013 where the Los Angeles School District blamed a 14-year-old girl for the sexual abuse she endured from her middle school teacher. The District's lawyer argued that the minor was responsible for the prevention of the abuse, putting the entire fault on the victim and exempting the perpetrator of any responsibility. Despite his efforts to convince the court that the victim must be blamed, the ruling stated that no minor student that has been sexually assaulted by his or her teacher is responsible for the prevention of that sexual assault.\n\nRoy Baumeister, a social and personality psychologist, argued that blaming the victim is not necessarily always fallacious. He argued that showing the victim's possible role in an altercation may be contrary to typical explanations of violence and cruelty, which incorporate the trope of the innocent victim. According to Baumeister, in the classic telling of \"the myth of pure evil,\" the innocent, well-meaning victims are going about their business when they are suddenly assaulted by wicked, malicious evildoers. Baumeister describes the situation as a possible distortion by both the perpetrator and the victim; the perpetrator may minimize the offense while the victim maximizes it, and so accounts of the incident shouldn't be immediately taken as objective truths.\n\nIn context, Baumeister refers to the common behavior of the aggressor seeing themselves as more of the \"victim\" than the abused, justifying a horrific act by way of their \"moral complexity\". This usually stems from an \"excessive sensitivity\" to insults, which he finds as a consistent pattern in abusive husbands. Essentially, the abuse the perpetrator administers is generally excessive, in comparison to the act/acts that they claim as to have provoked them.\n\nSome scholars make the argument that some of the attitudes that are described as victim blaming and the victimologies that are said to counteract them are both extreme and similar to each other, an example of the horseshoe theory. For instance, they argue that the claim that \"women wearing provocative clothing cause rape\" is as demeaning to men as it is to women as depicting men as incapable of controlling their sexual desire is misandrist and denies men full agency, while also arguing that the generalization that women do not lie about rape (or any generalization about women not doing some things because of their gender) is misogynist by its implicit assumption that women act by simple default action modes which is incompatible with full agency. These scholars argue that it is important to impartially assess the evidence in each criminal trial individually and that any generalization based on statistics would change the situation from one where the control of evidence makes false reporting difficult to one where lack of individual control of the alleged crime makes it easier to file false reports and that statistics collected in the former situation would not be possible to apply to the latter situation. While the scholars make a distinction between actual victim blaming and rule by law that they consider to be falsely lumped with victim blaming in radical feminist rhetorics, they also advocate more protection from ad hominem questions to alleged victims about past life history and that the questions should focus on what is relevant for the specific alleged crime. They also cite examples that they consider to be cases of the horseshoe theory applied to the question of victim blaming. This includes cases in which psychologists who have testified on behalf of the prosecution in trials in which breast size have been used as a measure of female age when classifying pornographic cartoons as child pornography and been praised praised by feminists for it, and later the same psychologists have used the same psychological arguments when testifying on behalf of the defense in statutory rape cases and getting the defendant acquitted by claiming that the victim's breasts looked like those of an adult woman (considered by these scholars to be victim blaming based on appearance) and been praised by men's rights groups for it. It also includes the possibility that biopsychiatric models that consider sexual criminality hereditary and that are advocated by some feminists may blame victims of incest abuse for being genetically related to their abusers and thereby dissuading them from reporting abuse.\n\nOther analysts of victim blaming discourse who neither support most of the phenomena that are described as victim blaming nor most of the measures that are marketed as countermeasures against such point at the existence of other ways of discovering and punishing crimes with victims besides the victim reporting the crime. Not only are there police patrols and possible eyewitnesses, but these analysts also argue that neighbors can overhear and report crimes that take place within the house such as domestic violence. For that reason along with the possibility of many witnesses turning up over time if the crime is ongoing long term as domestic abuse is generally said to be which would make some of the witnesses likely to be considered believable, analysts of this camp of thought argue that the main problem that prevent crimes from being successfully prosecuted is offender profiling that disbelieve the capacity and/or probability of many criminals to commit the crime, rather than disbelief or blaming of victim reports. These analysts cite international comparisons that show that the percentage of male on female cases in the statistics of successfully prosecuted domestic violence is not higher in countries that apply gender feminist theories about patriarchal structures than in countries that apply supposedly antifeminist evolutionary psychology profiling of sex differences in aggressiveness, impulse control and empathy, arguing that the criminal justice system prioritizing cases in which they believe the suspect most likely to be guilty makes evolutionary psychology at least as responsible as gender feminism for leaving domestic violence cases with female offenders undiscovered no matter if the victim is male or female. The analysts argue that many problems that are often attributed to victim blaming are instead due to offender profiling, and suggest randomized investigations instead of psychological profiling of suspected offenders.\n\nLeigh Leigh, born Leigh Rennea Mears, was a 14-year-old girl from Fern Bay, Australia, who was murdered on November 3, 1989. While attending a 16-year-old boy's birthday party at Stockton Beach, Leigh was assaulted by a group of boys after she returned distressed from a sexual encounter on the beach that a reviewing judge later called non-consensual. After being kicked and spat on by the group, Leigh left the party. Her naked body was found in the sand dunes nearby the following morning, with severe genital damage and a crushed skull. Leigh's murder received considerable attention in the media. Initially focusing on her sexual assault and murder, media attention later concentrated more on the lack of parental supervision and the drugs and alcohol at the party, and on Leigh's sexuality. The media coverage of the murder has been cited as an example of victim blaming.\n\nIn a case that became infamous in 2011, an 11-year-old female rape victim who suffered repeated gang rapes in Cleveland, Texas, was accused by a defense attorney of being a seductress who lured men to their doom. \"Like the spider and the fly. Wasn't she saying, 'Come into my parlor', said the spider to the fly?\", he asked a witness. The \"New York Times\" ran an article uncritically reporting on the way many in the community blamed the victim, for which the newspaper later apologized.\n\nIn a case that attracted worldwide coverage, when a woman was raped and killed in Delhi in December 2012, some Indian government officials and political leaders blamed the victim for various things, mostly based on conjecture. Many of the people involved later apologized.\n\nIn recent years, the issue of victim blaming has gained notoriety and become widely recognized in the media, particularly in the context of feminism, as women have often been blamed for behaving in ways that encourage harassment. \n\nIn 2016, in the wake of New Year's Eve sexual assaults in Germany, the mayor of Cologne Henriette Reker came under heavy criticism, as her response appeared to blame the victims. She called for women to follow a \"code of conduct,\" including staying at an \"arm's length\" from strangers. By the evening of January 5, \"#einearmlänge\" (\"an arm's length\") became one of Germany's top-trending hashtags on Twitter. Reker called a crisis meeting with the police in response to the incidents. Reker called it \"completely improper\" to link the perpetrators to refugees.\n\nCoverage of the 2016 Murder of Ashley Ann Olsen, an American murdered in Italy during a sexual encounter with a Senegalese immigrant, focused on the victim blaming in cross-cultural encounters.\n\nIn August 2017, the hashtag #AintNoCinderella took over the media in response to a national instance of victim-blaming occurring in India. After Varnika Kundu was stalked and harassed by two men on her way home late at night, Vice President Ramveer Bhatti addressed the viral story with a claim that Kundu was somehow at fault for being out late by herself. He essentially blamed the a woman for an incident of which she was merely a victim; and social media users took to Twitter and Instagram to challenge this idea that women should not be out late at night, and if they do, they are somehow \"asking for it\". Hundreds of women shared photos of themselves staying out past midnight, dressing boldly, and behaving in (harmless) ways that tend to be condemned in old-fashioned, anti-feminist ideology in order to make the statement: \"I am not a child. I am not someone's property. I am not a seventeeth-century fantastical damsel in distress. I am a woman\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26200645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26200645", "title": "Volcker Rule", "text": "Volcker Rule\n\nThe Volcker Rule refers to § 619 of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (). The rule was originally proposed by American economist and former United States Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker to restrict United States banks from making certain kinds of speculative investments that do not benefit their customers. Volcker argued that such speculative activity played a key role in the financial crisis of 2007–2008. The rule is often referred to as a ban on proprietary trading by commercial banks, whereby deposits are used to trade on the bank's own accounts, although a number of exceptions to this ban were included in the Dodd-Frank law.\n\nThe rule's provisions were scheduled to be implemented as part of the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010, with preceding ramifications, but were delayed. On December 10, 2013, the necessary agencies approved regulations implementing the rule, which were scheduled to go into effect April 1, 2014. \n\nOn January 14, 2014, after a lawsuit by community banks over provisions concerning specialized securities, revised final regulations were adopted. The rule came into effect on July 21, 2015. On August 11, 2016, several large banks requested a 5-year delay to exit illiquid investments.\n\nVolcker was appointed by President Barack Obama as the chair of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board on February 6, 2009. President Obama created the board to advise the Obama Administration on economic recovery matters. Volcker argued vigorously that since a functioning commercial banking system is essential to the stability of the entire financial system, for banks to engage in high-risk speculation created an unacceptable level of systemic risk. He also argued that the vast increase in the use of derivatives, designed to mitigate risk in the system, had produced exactly the opposite effect.\n\nThe Volcker Rule was first publicly endorsed by President Obama on January 21, 2010. The proposal was to specifically prohibit a bank or institution that owns a bank from engaging in proprietary trading, and from owning or investing in a hedge fund or private equity fund, and also to limit the liabilities that the largest banks could hold. Also under discussion was the possibility of placing restrictions on the way market-making activities are compensated; traders would be paid on the basis of the spread of transactions rather than any profit that the trader made for the client.\n\nOn January 21, 2010, under the same initiative, President Obama announced his intention to end the mentality of \"Too big to fail\".\n\nIn a February 22, 2010 letter to \"The Wall Street Journal\", five former Secretaries of the Treasury endorsed the Volcker Rule proposals.\nAs of February 23, 2010, the U.S. Congress began to consider a weaker bill allowing federal regulators to restrict proprietary trading and hedge fund ownership by banks, but not prohibiting these activities altogether.\n\nSenators Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, and Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, introduced the main piece of the Volcker Rule – its limitations on proprietary trading – as an amendment to the broader Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation that was passed by the United States Senate on May 20, 2010. Despite having wide support in the Senate, the amendment was never given a vote. When the Merkley-Levin Amendment was first brought to the floor, Senator Richard Shelby, Republican of Alabama, objected to a motion to vote on the amendment. Merkley and Levin responded by attaching the amendment to another amendment to the bill put forth by Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas. Shortly before it was due to be voted upon, Brownback withdrew his own amendment, thus killing the Merkley-Levin amendment and the Volcker Rule as part of the Senate bill.\n\nDespite that vote, the proposal made it into the final legislation when the House–Senate conference committee passed a strengthened version of the rule that included the language prepared by Senators Merkley and Levin. The original Merkley-Levin amendment and the final legislation both covered more types of proprietary trading than the original rule proposed by the administration. It also banned conflict of interest trading. Senator Levin commented on the importance of that aspect: \"We are also pleased that the conference report includes strong language to prevent the obscene conflicts of interest revealed in the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations hearing with Goldman Sachs. This is an important victory for fairness for investors such as pension funds and for the integrity of the financial system. As the Goldman Sachs investigation showed, business as usual on Wall Street has for too long allowed banks to create instruments which are based on junky assets, then sell them to clients, and bet against their own clients by betting on their failure. The measure approved by the conferees ends that type of conflict which Wall Street has engaged in.\"\n\nHowever, conferees changed the proprietary trading ban to allow banks to invest in hedge funds and private equity funds at the request of Senator Scott Brown (R-Mass.), whose vote was needed in the Senate to pass the bill. The Volcker rule was further amended to allow banks to invest 3% of Tier 1 capital into hedge funds and private equity funds, an amount that would exceed $6 billion a year for Bank of America alone. Proprietary trading in Treasuries, bonds issued by government-backed entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as municipal bonds is also exempted. Though the change allowing banks to invest in hedge funds and private equity funds created an exception to the ban on proprietary trading, one of the biggest exceptions to the ban is the market making exception that allows market making trading based on Reasonably Expected Near Term Demand of Customers (\"RENTD\"). Trading desks that will use the underwriting exception must also estimate RENTD, which is defined differently for underwriting.\n\nFollowing the passage of the Financial Reform Bill, many banks and financial firms indicated that they did not expect the Volcker Rule to have a significant effect on their profits.\n\nPublic comments to the Financial Stability Oversight Council on how exactly the rule should be implemented were submitted through November 5, 2010. Financial firms such as Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. posted comments expressing concerns about the rule. Republican representatives to Congress also expressed concern about the Volcker Rule, saying the rule's prohibitions may hamper the competitiveness of American banks in the global marketplace, and that they may seek to cut funding to the federal agencies responsible for its enforcement. The Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Representative Spencer Bachus (R-Alabama), stated that he was seeking to limit the effect of the Volcker Rule, although Volcker himself stated that he expected backers of the rule to prevail over such critics.\n\nRegulators presented a proposed form of the Volcker Rule regulations for public comment on October 11, 2011, which was approved by the SEC, The Federal Reserve, The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC. The proposed regulations were immediately criticized by banking groups as being too costly to implement, and by reform advocates for being weak and filled with loopholes. On January 12, 2012 the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) issued substantially similar proposed regulations.\n\nVolcker himself stated that he would have preferred a simpler set of rules: \"I'd write a much simpler bill. I'd love to see a four-page bill that bans proprietary trading and makes the board and chief executive responsible for compliance. And I'd have strong regulators. If the banks didn't comply with the spirit of the bill, they'd go after them.\"\n\nRegulators gave the public until February 13, 2012 to comment on the proposed draft of the regulations (over 17,000 comments were made). Under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, the regulations went into effect on July 21, 2012. However, during his report to Congress on February 29, 2012, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank and other regulators would not meet that deadline.\n\nBy February 26, 2013, the rule was still not implemented. Occupy the SEC filed a suit in the Eastern District Court of New York naming the Federal Reserve, the SEC, CFTC, OCC, FDIC, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury and calling for the court to set a deadline for implementation. Subsequently, it was reported that the Volcker Rule was not likely to be in effect until July 2014 and that some industry lobbyists were pushing for extension beyond that date.\n\nOn December 10, 2013, the Volcker Rule regulations were approved by all five of the necessary financial regulatory agencies. It was set to go into effect April 1, 2014. The final rule had a longer compliance period and fewer metrics than earlier proposals. Furthermore, the final rule put the onus on banks to demonstrate that they are operating their trading activities in compliance with the rule and required CEO certification of the effectiveness of the compliance program.\n\nHowever, after a lawsuit was filed to stay the effect of the Volcker Rule regulations over whether banks could be required to sell or divest collateralized debt obligations (CDO) backed by trust-preferred securities (TruPS), on December 27, 2013 the Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, OCC, CFTC and SEC all announced they were reviewing whether it would be appropriate to exempt a small subset of securities from the rule, on which they would rule by January 15, 2014, at the latest. On January 14, 2014, interim final regulations were adopted to permit certain banking entities to retain those investments.\n\nOn January 14, 2014, revised final regulations were approved, and the rule came into effect on July 21, 2015.\n\nExtensions continued for banks to exit illiquid investments.\nOn December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve extended the Volcker Rule's conformance period for \"legacy covered funds\" (a defined term) until July 21, 2016, and indicated it would likely extend the period further to July 21, 2017. The extension to 2016 is the second of three possible one-year extensions the Federal Reserve may issue under the Dodd-Frank Act (regulators provided an initial one-year extension when the Volcker Rule was finalized in December 2013).\nWall Street lobbyists continued to ask the Federal Reserve to extend the deadline for some banking investments in private equity and hedge funds.\n\nEuropean scholars and lawmakers also discussed the necessity of banking reform in light of the crisis, recommending the adoption of specific regulations limiting proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, notably in France where SFAF and World Pensions Council banking experts argued that, beyond fragmented national legislations, such rules should be adopted and implemented within the broader context of statutory laws valid across the European Union.\n\nThe Liikanen Report, or \"Report of the European Commission's High-level Expert Group on Bank Structural Reform\", is a set of recommendations published in October 2012 by a group of experts led by Erkki Liikanen, governor of the Bank of Finland and ECB council member. The \"Liikanen Group\" was molded after the UK's Independent Commission on Banking and the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness: it was established in Brussels by EU Commissioner Michel Barnier in February 2012.\n\nOn July 25, 2012, former Citigroup Chairman and CEO Sandy Weill, considered one of the driving forces behind the considerable financial deregulation and \"mega-mergers\" of the 1990s, surprised financial analysts in Europe and North America by \"calling for splitting up the commercial banks from the investment banks. He called for the return of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which he said had effectively led to half a century free of financial crises.\n\nOn October 24, 2017, citing \"no foreseeable agreement\" in sight on criteria, the European Commission scrapped the draft legislation that would have permitted the EBA regulator to order \"too big to fail\" banks to split off their trading activities. The draft was supposed to be the EU's answer to the United States' Volcker Rule.\n\nThe proposal of the Volcker Rule led to an exodus of top proprietary traders from large banks to form their own hedge funds or join existing hedge funds including Todd Edgar and Roger Jones from Barclays, Sutesh Sharma from Citigroup, George \"Beau\" Taylor and Trevor Woods from Credit Suisse, Pablo Calderini, Nelson Saiers and Boaz Weinstein from Deutsche Bank, Pierre-Henri Flamand, Bob Howard, Morgan Sze, Darren Wong and Mathew McClean from Goldman Sachs, Deepak Gulati and Mike Stewart from JP Morgan, Peter Muller from Morgan Stanley, and Jean Bourlet from UBS.\n\nCritics of the rule pointed to the subsequent brain drain of top talent, however the trading expertise thus lost would only relate to the activity to be curtailed by the new framework, and would only be lost to the banks rather than the economy as a whole, and may be understood as precisely the sort of cultural change within taxpayer-supported banks that the rule was intended to achieve.\n\nThe Volcker Rule has been compared to, and contrasted with, the Glass–Steagall Act of 1933. Its core differences from the Glass–Steagall Act have been cited by one scholar as being at the center of the rule's identified weaknesses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "650440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650440", "title": "WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control", "text": "WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control\n\nThe World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC) is a treaty adopted by the 56th World Health Assembly held in Geneva, Switzerland on 21 May 2003. It became the first World Health Organization treaty adopted under article 19 of the WHO constitution. The treaty came into force on 27 February 2005. It had been signed by 168 countries and is legally binding in 181 ratifying countries. There are currently 15 United Nations member states that are non-parties to the treaty (nine which have not signed and six of which have signed but not ratified).\n\nThe FCTC, one of the most quickly ratified treaties in United Nations history, is a supranational agreement that seeks \"to protect present and future generations from the devastating health, social, environmental and economic consequences of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke\" by enacting a set of universal standards stating the dangers of tobacco and limiting its use in all forms worldwide. To this end, the treaty's provisions include rules that govern the production, sale, distribution, advertisement, and taxation of tobacco. FCTC standards are, however, minimum requirements, and signatories are encouraged to be even more stringent in regulating tobacco than the treaty requires them to be.\n\nThe FCTC represents a watershed moment for international public health; not only was the treaty the first to be adopted under WHO's Article 19, but it also marks one of the first multilateral, binding agreements regarding a chronic, non-communicable disease.\n\nThe FCTC was furthermore a watershed moment for the European Union. According to Mamudu and Studlar, since the adoption of the FCTC in 2003, \"shared sovereignty through multilevel governance has become the norm in the tobacco control policy area for EU members, including having one international organization negotiate within the context of another.\" Worldwide tobacco control set a precedent for EU Commission participation and negotiation in multilateral treaties, and further defined the powers and capabilities of the EU as a supranational entity.\n\nThe perceived success of the FCTC has fueled calls for many other global health treaties, although a recent review of 90 quantitative impact evaluations of international treaties broadly raises questions about their real-world impact. Four criteria have been put forward to guide the development of follow-on global health treaties.\n\nThe WHO has long been active in preventing the myriad health issues that result from tobacco consumption. As the leading cause of preventable death globally, tobacco has seen an upsurge in both its consumption and its fatality rate worldwide with the increasing interconnectedness of the global economy. Thus, while tobacco related-diseases differ from the communicable diseases that have traditionally been the concern of the WHO, the effects of globalization have made tobacco increasingly relevant for such intergovernmental authorities.\n\nUnder the auspices of tobacco activist and UCLA professor Ruth Roemer, the WHO urged individual countries throughout the 1980s and 1990s to adopt national laws that have been shown to reduce tobacco use. The FCTC, however, marked the first time that the WHO went so far as to enact its international legal powers to address the problem. In fact, Roemer herself was among the original group of academics and tobacco activists who supported the idea of a framework-convention protocol approach (the rest of the group included Allyn Taylor, Derek Yach, and Judith Mackay). \n\nThe idea for a multilateral treaty regarding tobacco control gained traction in 1994 at the Ninth World Conference on Tobacco or Health in Paris, France, when Roemer and Taylor presented their strategy for international legal action. Roemer and Allyn, along with Judith Mackay, were successful, and their proposal was adopted as one of the conference's first resolutions.\n\nIn 1995, the World Health Assembly (WHA), in Resolution 48.11, requested that the director general \"report to the 49th World Health Assembly on the feasibility of developing an international instrument, such as guidelines, a declaration or an international convention on tobacco control to be adopted by the United Nations.\" In compliance with Resolution 48.11, the WHO employed Roemer and Taylor to draft a background paper on the various mechanisms available to the WHO in effectively controlling tobacco use worldwide. This background paper provided a concrete recommendation for a framework convention, as opposed to alternative international legal action. According to it proponents, a framework convention would \"promote global cooperation and national action for tobacco control.\"\n\nRoemer and Taylor's proposal was met with some skepticism. Allan M. Brandt, the esteemed Harvard University historian of the tobacco industry, reports, \"some considered it unrealistic, impractical, and overly ambitious, and preferred a nonbinding 'code of conduct.\" However, with the support of Derek , head of the Policy Coordination Committee at the WHO, the proposal gained momentum. Derek became the first Director of the Tobacco Free Initiative in 1998 and steered development of the FCTC from then till its adoption in March 2003. Subsequently, Gro Harlem Brundtland was elected director general of the WHO in 1998. Brundtland, a Norwegian medical doctor with a Master of Public Health degree from Harvard University, threw her full support behind the idea for a binding multilateral treaty on tobacco control. Alongside malaria treatment and prevention, the nascent Framework Convention rose to the top of her agenda at the WHO.\n\nIt took three years for negotiators to come to an agreement on the terms of the FCTC. After being adopted by the World Health Assembly, the policy-making arm of the WHO, it officially went into effect in February 2005.\n\nA framework convention is typically justified for problems that necessitate international cooperation to effectively formulate policy. Prior to the FCTC, the majority of framework conventions addressed \"environmental issues that were outside the control of individual nations.\" Thus, in proving that a framework convention was needed for tobacco control, treaty advocates invoked tobacco-related issues that could not be resolved by the actions of individual countries, such as the smuggling of tobacco and the leakage of tobacco advertisements from countries which lacked stringent regulation to those with restrictions on where and to whom tobacco companies could market their products. This initial justification of the framework convention is manifested in the preamble of the final version of the FCTC, which states the following issues as central to the treaty's aims:\n\nThe treaty is notable for its unprecedented inclusion of nongovernmental organizations throughout the negotiation and drafting processes. According to Elinor Wilson, the past Vice-President of World Heart Federation, \"the FCTC is an excellent example of government/non-governmental collaboration through the Framework Convention Alliance resulting in global public health gains.\" Such collaboration between NGOs and the WHO forever changed the way that the WHO treats nongovernmental organizations, and in 2002 the WHO constitution was amended to reflect this shift in relations.\n\nMuch of the groundwork for the economic justification for the FCTC was laid by the World Bank. In order to counter concerns that international tobacco control legislation would unduly harm economies of which tobacco farming, manufacturing, and sale were an important part, the WHO cited a landmark World Bank publication entitled \"Curbing the Epidemic: Governments and the Economics of Tobacco Control (CTE)\", which asserted that tobacco control would not harm economies, other than a select few agrarian countries that were unusually dependent on tobacco production. Mamudu, Hammond, and Glantz reveal that \"as a financial institution with substantial influence in developing countries, the Bank's publication of CTE threatened to undermine the tobacco companies' economic arguments\" about the harmful effects of tobacco control.\n\nIndeed, even before the treaty was publicly released, tobacco industry representatives embarked upon a concerted effort to thwart the efforts of FCTC drafters, in addition to participating policy-makers from individual WHO member states. Unable to argue against the overwhelming scientific evidence about tobacco's harmful health effects, the tobacco industry seized upon the FCTC's potential for economic harm. In response to the World Bank's \"CTE,\"the industry made a number of attempts to discredit the report, especially through the public relations efforts of the International Tobacco Growers' Association (ITGA) and by employing non-World Bank economists to release their own analyses. Between 4–16 March of the year 2000, the ITGA, financed by the tobacco industry, set out on what they dubbed a \"Roadshow,\" during which ITGA representatives spoke to policy-makers in the developing countries of India, Kenya, Malawi, South Africa, and Zimbabwe, in addition to two \"mini-Roadshows\" in Argentina and Brazil, in order to voice ITGA opposition to the FCTC on the grounds that the \"CTE\" had underestimated the threat that tobacco control would pose to developing economies. Once negotiations for the FCTC were underway, the tobacco industry again made attempts to lessen the blow of international legislation on their business by lobbying delegates at the convention in Geneva. According to Mamudu, Hammond, and Glantz, however, \"these efforts... did not undermine acceptance of \"CTE\" during the FCTC negotiations and \"CTE\" remained an authoritative economic analysis of global tobacco control.\"\n\nNevertheless, the FCTC acknowledges that its agenda will inevitably hurt farmers who currently depend on tobacco for their livelihoods. To that end, the treaty encourages Parties to help tobacco farmers make the transition from tobacco to alternative crops. Article 17 of the Framework Convention states: \"Parties shall, in cooperation with each other and with competent international and regional intergovernmental organizations, promote, as appropriate, economically viable alternatives for tobacco workers, growers and, as the case may be, individual sellers.\" In particular, the FCTC favors sustainable development options over tobacco farming. To achieve this, Party governments and tobacco control advocates are encouraged to invest in better infrastructure, especially transportation, to ease farmers' access to new and foreign markets when making the transition, while simultaneously improving farmers' access to credit that may be necessary in converting their existing facilities.\n\nSignificant provisions of the treaty require that parties implement the following measures:\n\nWorld Map Status\n\nThe United States is a non-party to the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. When the signed treaty was put up for ratification, President George W. Bush failed to send the FCTC to the United States Senate for consideration, thereby preventing the full participation of the U.S in the implementation of the Framework Convention.\n\nFurthermore, the U.S. has sought to change certain provisions of the FCTC, but with limited success. Among the provisions opposed successfully were a mandatory ban on the distribution of free tobacco samples (which is now optional), a narrow definition of the term \"minor\" regarding the sale of tobacco (which now refers to domestic or national law) and broad limitations concerning the tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship (which were seen as violating free speech, and are now subject to constitutional limitations). Among the provisions unsuccessfully opposed by the U.S. were the requirement for warning labels to be written in the language of the country where the tobacco products are being sold, and the ban on deceptive and misleading descriptions such as \"low tar\" or \"ultra-light\", which might infringe on trademark protections.\n\nAs of December 2017, there are 15 non-party states that are members of the UN: six that have signed but not yet ratified (Argentina, Cuba, Haiti, Morocco, Switzerland, and the United States); and nine that have not signed (Andorra, Dominican Republic, Eritrea, Indonesia, Liechtenstein*, Malawi, Monaco, Somalia, and South Sudan).\n\n\nThe FCTC established two principal bodies to oversee the functioning of the treaty: the Conference of the parties and the permanent Secretariat. In addition, there are over 50 different intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations who are official observers to the Conference of the Parties.\n\nAccording to the FCTC in 2010, \"most parties have now passed or are renewing and strengthening national legislation and policies to meet their obligations under the treaty\" and that 80% of parties facilitated public information and/ or education programs on the dangers of tobacco and curb underage tobacco consumption through laws that forbid retailers from selling tobacco products to minors. Furthermore, 70% of parties made \"large, clear and visible health warnings\" mandatory for tobacco packaging. However Nikogosian warns that the treaty's effectiveness hinges on how parties implement the guidelines. FCTC implementation proves most difficult for developing and transition economies, due to a rift between their need for tobacco control and the resources they can access in meeting FCTC guidelines. This also proves to be difficult for the European Union, and Australia.\n\nIn 2008, the FCTC advised to introduce plain tobacco packaging, which in 2012 subsequently was adopted in Australia .\n\nRecent attempts to evaluate the implementation and efficacy of FCTC showed that actual state compliance with the framework is quite low, and that its implementation infrastructure is ridden with errors. For instance, when Hoffman \"et al.\" compared WHO's FCTC implementation database with national implementation reports they found that 32% of country responses were misreported in the database; 3% were obvious errors, 24% were missing despite being reported by countries, and 5% were misinterpreted by the WHO staff. These findings highlighted the need for a stronger WHO infrastructure to track and record state compliance with policies.\n\nIn 2017, the Convention Secretariat started a new project to help parties to strengthen treaty implementation.\n\nThe United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development reflects the importance of tobacco control in promoting development, including specific reference to WHO FCTC implementation in target 3.a. Given the impact of tobacco on development, the implementation of the Convention will play an important role in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).\n\nThe \"FCTC 2030\" project aims to support Parties to the WHO FCTC that are eligible to receive official development assistance (ODA) to achieve the SDGs by advancing implementation of the Convention. The project will run from April 2017 until March 2021.\n\nThrough the \"FCTC 2030 \"project, technical support will be provided to national governments of these countries to:\nThrough the \"FCTC 2030 \"project, the Convention Secretariat will promote WHO FCTC implementation as part of the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) agenda and provide general support and materials for low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) in the areas set out above. This will include workshops, toolkits, online training on tobacco control, south-south and triangular cooperation, and other forms of assistance to national governments to accelerate treaty implementation.\n\nThe Convention Secretariat will also be able to provide intensive support up to 15 selected countries that are Parties to the WHO FCTC, are eligible to receive ODA and have demonstrated the motivation and commitment to advance treaty implementation. This will include the provision of direct, demand-driven expert advice, technical assistance and peer support to build domestic capacity to improve tobacco control in line with available resources.\n\nIn 2012, a supplementary Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products to the Convention was concluded in Seoul, South Korea. The Protocol will enter into force after it has been ratified by 40 states that have ratified the Convention. In July 2017, there are 28 signatures and the Protocol is reuniting more countries every year.\n\nReporters and the public were forcibly removed from the October 2014 convention which occurred in Moscow. \"Washington Times\" reported that the FCTC delegates were discussing a global tobacco tax in secret.\n\n\n"}
