{"id": "30857849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857849", "title": "Amalgam Virgo", "text": "Amalgam Virgo\n\nOperation Amalgam Virgo is a CINCNORAD joint task counter-terrorist and field training exercise (FTX) carried out in Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida on early June 2001. NORAD sponsored the multi-agency planning exercise involving the hypothetical scenario of a cruise missile or UAV launched by a terrorist group. Osama bin Laden was pictured on the cover of the proposal for the exercise. Key military players involved in the exercise also included personnel from the 1st Air Force battalion, the U.S. National Guard, the U.S. Reserve forces, and the U.S. Navy.\n\nSeveral naval ships including the USS \"Yorktown\" and the Navy Aegis cruiser were dispatched to the Gulf of Mexico as part of the multi-service anti-cruise missile operation. Military land personnel from the 1st Air Force also engaged in gathering radar information on low-level targets by using the Joint-Based Expeditionary Connectivity Center (JBECC), a mobile shelter capable of being deployed to high-risk regions while providing early warning signals on cruise missile attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1566180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1566180", "title": "Aspies For Freedom", "text": "Aspies For Freedom\n\nAspies For Freedom (AFF) is a solidarity and campaigning group that aimed at raising public awareness of the autism rights movement. The aim of Aspies For Freedom is to educate the public that the autism spectrum is not always a disability, and that there are advantages as well as disadvantages. For this purpose, the group organizes an annual Autistic Pride Day. AFF provides support for the autistic community and protests attempts to cure autism.\n\nEstablished in 2004 by Amy and Gareth Nelson, AFF has received coverage from publications such as \"New Scientist\" magazine. As of August 2007, \"The Guardian\" estimated the group's membership at 20,000. Rob Crossan, writing for the BBC, mentioned their belief that higher functioning autistics are often in possession of extraordinary talents in the fields of mathematics, memory, music or arts. \n\nGareth Nelson, the founder of Aspies for Freedom, has made internet parodies of Autism Speaks, saying that they were silencing opposing views. Aspies For Freedom petitioned the United Nations in 2004 to have members of the autistic community recognised as a minority status group. A statement was released from the group titled 'Declaration of the autism community'. This article detailed reasons for seeking such official recognition from the United Nations and the work towards achieving this. AFF was cited by \"The Guardian\" as a resource for autism employment assistance. Gareth Nelson and Aspies for Freedom have spoken out against prenatal genetic testing for autism spectrum disorders, portraying autism as a difference as opposed to a disability.\n\n"}
{"id": "35932067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35932067", "title": "Assimilative Crimes Act", "text": "Assimilative Crimes Act\n\nThe Assimilative Crimes Act, , makes state law applicable to conduct occurring on lands reserved or acquired by the Federal government as provided in , when the act or omission is not made punishable by an enactment of Congress.\n\nThe first Assimilative Crimes Act was passed as § 3 of the Crimes Act of 1825.\n\nProsecutions instituted under this statute are not to enforce the laws of the state, but to enforce Federal law, the details of which, instead of being recited, are adopted by reference. In addition to minor violations, the statute has been invoked to cover a number of serious criminal offenses defined by state law such as burglary and embezzlement. However, the Assimilative Crimes Act cannot be used to override other Federal policies as expressed by acts of Congress or by valid administrative orders.\n\nThe prospective incorporation of state law was upheld in \"United States v. Sharpnack\", 355 U.S. 286 (1957). State law is assimilated only when no \"enactment of Congress\" covers the conduct. The application of this rule is not always easy. In \"Williams v. United States\", 327 U.S. 711, 717 (1946), prosecution of a sex offense under a state statute with a higher age of consent was held impermissible, but a conviction for a shooting with intent to kill as defined by state law was upheld, despite the similarity of provisions of . There seems to be a definite trend to construe 18 U.S.C. § 13 liberally to provide complete coverage of criminal conduct within a federal enclave, even where the offense is generally covered by Federal law.\n\nThe Uniform Code of Military Justice (U.C.M.J.), 10 U.S.C. § 801 et seq., because of its unlimited applicability, is not considered an \"enactment of Congress\" within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. § 13. Military personnel committing acts on an enclave subject to Federal jurisdiction which are not made an offense by Federal statutes other than the U.C.M.J. may therefore be prosecuted in district court for violations of state law assimilated by 18 U.S.C. § 13, even though they are also subject to court martial. However, dual prosecution, it should be noted, is constitutionally precluded by the Double Jeopardy Clause.\n\n18 U.S.C. § 13 does not assimilate penal provisions of state regulatory schemes. Nor does it incorporate state administrative penalties, such as suspension of driver's licenses. Section 13(b) allows suspension of licenses within the enclave.\n\nFederal agency regulations, violations of which are made criminal by statute, have been held to preclude assimilation of state law. In \"United States v. Adams\", 502 F. Supp. 21, the defendant was charged with carrying a concealed weapon in a United States Courthouse in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 13 and the pertinent Florida felony firearms statute. In dismissing the indictment, the \"Adams\" court concluded that a General Services Administration (GSA) petty offense weapons regulation, which had explicitly provided for by statute, amounted to an enactment of Congress within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. § 13 and, therefore, the defendant could not be prosecuted by the assimilation of state law which prohibited the same precise act.\n\nIt is important to note, however, that a critical provision of the GSA regulations apparently was not considered in \"Adams\". The regulation at the time of the case provides in part: \"Nothing in these rules and regulations shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal laws or regulations or any State and local laws and regulations applicable to any area in which the property is situated.\"\n\nThis non-abrogation provision arguably would permit the assimilation of appropriate state firearms laws or other state statutes notwithstanding the existence of the GSA regulations. It appears that this language has never been considered in any reported case. Moreover, no discussion of the meaning of this language appears in the pertinent parts of the Federal Register. The United States Department of Justice believe it would be reasonable to interpret this non-abrogation provision as permitting the government, in its discretion, to proceed under 18 U.S.C. § 13 and appropriate state firearms laws, rather than under the GSA weapons regulation.\n\n"}
{"id": "19317941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19317941", "title": "Asturian miners' strike of 1934", "text": "Asturian miners' strike of 1934\n\nThe Asturian miners' strike of 1934 was a major strike action, against the entry of the Spanish Confederation of the Autonomous Right (CEDA) into the Spanish government on October 6, which took place in Asturias in northern Spain, that developed into a revolutionary uprising. It was crushed by the Spanish Navy and the Spanish Republican Army, the latter using mainly Moorish troops from Spanish Morocco.\n\nFrancisco Franco controlled the movement of the troops, aircraft, warships and armoured trains used in the crushing of the revolution. Visiting Oviedo after the rebellion had been put down he said; \"this war is a frontier war and its fronts are socialism, communism and whatever attacks civilization in order to replace it with barbarism.\" Though the forces sent to the north by Franco consisted of the Spanish Foreign Legion and the Moroccan colonial troops known as Regulares, the right-wing press portrayed the Asturian rebels in xenophobic and anti-Semitic terms as the lackeys of a foreign Jewish-Bolshevik conspiracy.\n\nFollowing the victory of the parties of the right in the general election of 1933, the new government, led by Alejandro Lerroux, met stiff resistance from the leftist parties. As a result, the anarchists and socialists called a general strike. However the strike immediately exposed differences on the left between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) linked Unión General de Trabajadores (UGT), which organised the strike and the anarcho-syndicalist trade union, the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT), which was sceptical of the value of strike action as a political tactic. As a result, the strike failed in much of Spain. A \"Catalan republic\" lasted just ten hours, and despite an attempt at a general stoppage in Madrid, other strikes did not endure and Asturias was left to fight alone.\n\nIn several mining towns in Asturias, local unions gathered small arms and were determined to see the strike through. The strike began on the evening of October 4, with the miners occupying several towns, attacking and seizing local Civil and Assault Guard barracks. The following day saw columns of miners advancing along the road to Oviedo, the provincial capital. With the exception of two barracks where fighting with the garrison of 1,500 government troops continued, the city was taken by October 6. The miners proceeded to occupy several other towns, most notably the large industrial centre of La Felguera, and set up town assemblies or 'revolutionary committees', to govern towns they controlled. \n\nThe revolutionary soviets set up by the miners attempted to impose order on the areas under their control and the moderate socialist leadership of Ramón González Peña and Balamino Tomas took measures to restrain violence. However a number of captured priests, businessmen and civil guards were executed in Mieres and Sama, while churches, convents and part of the university at Oviedo were destroyed. \n\nThe government in Madrid now called on two of its senior generals Manuel Goded and Francisco Franco to co-ordinate suppression of what had become a major rebellion. Goded and Franco recommended that regular units of colonial troops from Spanish Morocco be used instead of the inexperienced conscripts of the Peninsular Army. The Minister of War Diego Hidalgo agreed that the latter would be at a disadvantage in combat against the well organized miners, who were skilled in the use of dynamite.\n\nColumns of Civil Guards, Moroccan Regulares and the Spanish Legion were accordingly organized under General Eduardo López Ochoa and Colonel Juan de Yague to relieve the besieged government garrisons and to retake the towns from the miners. These troops were carried on the CNT-controlled railways to Asturias without resistance by the anarchists. During the operations, an autogyro made a reconnaissance flight for the government troops, in what was the first military employment of a rotorcraft. On October 7, delegates from the anarchist-controlled seaport towns of Gijón and Avilés arrived in Oviedo to request weapons to defend against a landing of government troops. Ignored by the socialist UGT-controlled committee, the delegates returned to their town empty-handed and government troops met little resistance as they recaptured Gijón and Avilés the following day. The capture of the two key ports effectively spelled the end of the strike.\n\nIn the armed action taken against the uprising, some 3,000 miners were killed in the fighting, with another 30,000–40,000 taken prisoner, and thousands more sacked from their jobs. The repression of the uprising carried out by the colonial troops was very harsh, including looting, rape and summary executions. According to Hugh Thomas, 2,000 persons died in the uprising: 230-260 military and police, 33 priests, 1,500 miners in combat and 200 individuals killed in the repression (among them the journalist Luis de Sirval, who pointed out tortures and executions and was arrested and killed by three officers of the Legion). The government suspended Constitutional guarantees. Almost all the left's newspapers were closed, as they were owned by the parties which promoted the uprising. Hundreds of town councils and mixed juries were suspended. Torture in prisons was widespread, as it was during all the Republic's lifetime.\n\nFranco was convinced that the workers uprising had been \"carefully prepared by the agents of Moscow\". Fed by material he gathered from the Entente Anticommuniste of Geneva, Franco believed that he was justified in the brutal use of troops against Spanish civilians. Historian Paul Preston: \"Unmoved by the fact that the central symbol of rightist values was the reconquest of Spain from the Moors, Franco did not hesitate to ship Moorish mercenaries to fight in Asturias, the only part of Spain where the crescent had never flown. He saw no contradiction about using the Moors, because he regarded left-wing workers with the same racialist contempt he possessed towards the tribesmen of the Rif.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42327990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42327990", "title": "Backup sync share", "text": "Backup sync share\n\nBackup Sync Share (BSS) is an emerging category of products that stems from a combination of more traditional data backup programs, data synchronization and mirroring applications, and data sharing applications - many of which have a considerable, expanding social media element.\n"}
{"id": "2545678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2545678", "title": "Bert Karlsson", "text": "Bert Karlsson\n\nBert Willis Karlsson (born 21 June 1945, in Skövde, Västra Götaland County) is a Swedish record company manager, entrepreneur, former politician (Member of Parliament 1991-1994) and front figure of the New Democracy (\"Ny Demokrati\") party. \n\nAs the owner and manager of the record company Mariann Grammofon AB, Karlsson became a familiar face to the Swedish public as the man behind Carola Häggkvist. In 1984 he started Skara Sommarland, a theme park. \n\nIn 1991, Karlsson and count Ian Wachtmeister started the populist political party \"New Democracy\". Attracting major media attention, and with a patriotic platform, the party received 6.7 percent of the vote in the parliamentary election in September. With no previous political experience, Karlsson suddenly found himself elected to the Riksdag as a Member of Parliament.\n\nWhen \"New Democracy\" imploded due to internal struggles and failed in the 1994 parliamentary election Karlsson went back to being a full-time businessman. He has started the popular Swedish reality television show Fame Factory, (a programme somewhat similar to the British show Pop Idol), in which he played an important role. Many Mariann artists have entered Melodifestivalen, the Swedish qualifications for the Eurovision Song Contest. From 1978 to 2005, approximately 120 songs from Karlsson's record company competed, and 14 of these went on to represent Sweden in the Eurovision Song contest. Mariann artists include Herreys and Charlotte Perrelli, who went on to win the Eurovision Song Contest (1984 and 1999, respectively).\n\nIn March 2005, Karlsson filled out an application for membership in the Liberal People's Party during a television interview. When the party immediately responded with criticism of him, calling the move a media stunt, he did not go through with his application.\n\nKarlsson was a judge in the first five seasons of the TV show \"Talang\" on TV4, the Swedish version of America's Got Talent, between 2007–2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "47405940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47405940", "title": "Billion Oyster Project", "text": "Billion Oyster Project\n\nThe Billion Oyster Project is a citizen science project co-ordinated by the New York Harbor School with the goal of restoring one billion live oysters to New York Harbor by 2030. The project aims to engage hundreds of thousands of school children during its lifetime in marine restoration-based STEM education programs. The project grew out of the activities of students at the New York Harbor School who started growing and restoring oysters in New York Harbor in 2008. \n\nThe project was inspired by the success of the Oyster Recovery Project based in Chesapeake Bay which has to date replanted more than 5.2 billion oysters on 1,600 acres of oyster reefs. Oyster reefs are thought to have covered more than 220,000 acres of the Hudson River estuary and filtered water, provided habitat for other marine species and attenuated wave energy but are now functionally extinct in the Harbor due to overharvesting, dredging and pollution. \n\nThe project was the brainchild of educators Murray Fisher and Peter Malinowski who are both associated with New York Harbor School and its Foundation and was formally established in 2014. A $5 million National Science Foundation grant will allow the program to spread to thousands of public middle school students from 2015.\n\nBy August 2015, 11.5 million oysters had been grown in NY Harbor, with 1.05 acres of reef area restored. More than 2,150 high school students and 875 middle school students have taken part in the project. Approximately 93,600 pounds of oyster shell have been recycled. Co-ordinators estimate the oysters have filtered approximately 10.9 trillion gallons of water in New York Harbor, removing 6.75 million pounds of nitrogen.\n\n"}
{"id": "436612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436612", "title": "Cato Street Conspiracy", "text": "Cato Street Conspiracy\n\nThe Cato Street Conspiracy was an attempt to murder all the British cabinet ministers and Prime Minister Lord Liverpool in 1820. The name comes from the meeting place near Edgware Road in London. The police had an informer and the plotters fell into a police trap and 13 were arrested, while one policeman was killed. Five conspirators were executed, and five others were transported to Australia. \n\nHow widespread the Cato Street conspiracy was is uncertain. It was a time of unrest; rumours abounded. Malcolm Chase noted that, \"the London-Irish community and a number of trade societies, notably shoemakers, were prepared to lend support, while unrest and awareness of a planned rising were widespread in the industrial north and on Clydeside.\"\n\nThe conspirators were called the Spencean Philanthropists, a group taking their name from the British radical speaker Thomas Spence. The group was known for being a revolutionary organization, involved in unrest and propaganda and plotting the overthrow of the government.\n\nSome of them, particularly Arthur Thistlewood, had been involved with the Spa Fields riots in 1816. Thistlewood came to dominate the group with George Edwards as his second in command. Edwards was a police spy. Most of the members were angered by the Six Acts and the Peterloo Massacre, as well as with the economic depression and political repression of the time. \n\nThe conspirators planned to assassinate the cabinet which was supposed to be together at a dinner. They would then seize key buildings, overthrow the government and establish a \"Committee of Public Safety\" to oversee a radical revolution. According to the prosecution at their trial, they had intended to form a provisional government headquartered in the Mansion House.\n\nHard economic times encouraged social unrest. The end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 further worsened the economy and saw the return of job-seeking veterans. King George III's death on 29 January 1820, created a new governmental crisis. In a meeting held on 22 February, George Edwards suggested that the group could exploit the political situation and kill all the cabinet ministers after invading the fictitious cabinet dinner at the home of Lord Harrowby, Lord President of the Council, armed with pistols and grenades. Edwards even provided funds to help arm the conspirators. \n\nThistlewood thought the act would trigger a massive uprising against the government. James Ings, a coffeeshop keeper and former butcher, later announced that he would have decapitated all the cabinet members and taken two heads to exhibit on Westminster Bridge. Thistlewood spent the next hours trying to recruit more men for the attack. Twenty-seven men joined the effort.\n\nWhen Jamaican-born William Davidson, who had worked for Lord Harrowby, went to find more details about the cabinet dinner, a servant in Lord Harrowby's house told him that his master was not at home. When Davidson told this to Thistlewood, he refused to believe it and demanded that the operation commence at once. John Harrison rented a small house in Cato Street as the base of operations. However, Edwards kept the police fully informed. Some of the other members had suspected Edwards but Thistlewood had made him his top aide. \n\nEdwards had presented the idea with the full knowledge of the Home Office, who had also put the advertisement about the supposed dinner in \"The New Times\". When he reported that his would-be-comrades would be ready to follow his suggestion, the Home Office decided to act.\n\nOn 23 February, Richard Birnie, Bow Street magistrate, and George Ruthven, another police spy, went to wait at a public house on the other side of the street of the Cato Street building with twelve officers of the Bow Street Runners. Birnie and Ruthven waited for the afternoon because they had been promised reinforcements from the Coldstream Guards, under the command of Captain FitzClarence, an illegitimate son of the Duke of Clarence (later William IV). Thistlewood's group arrived during that time. At 7:30 pm, the Bow Street Runners decided to apprehend the conspirators themselves. \n\nIn the resulting brawl, Thistlewood killed a police officer with a sword. Some conspirators surrendered peacefully, while others resisted forcefully. William Davidson was captured while Thistlewood, Robert Adams, John Brunt and John Harrison slipped out through the back window but they were arrested a few days later.\n\n\"1. Conspiring to devise plans to subvert the Constitution. 2. Conspiring to levy war, and subvert the Constitution. 3. Conspiring to murder divers of the Privy Council. 4. Providing arms to murder divers of the Privy Council. 5. Providing arms and ammunition to levy war and subvert the Constitution. 6. Conspiring to seize cannon, arms and ammunition to arm themselves, and to levy war and subvert the Constitution. 7. Conspiring to burn houses and barracks, and to provide combustibles for that purpose. 8. Preparing addresses, &c. containing incitements to the King's subjects to assist in levying war and subverting the Constitution. 9. Preparing an address to the King's subjects, containing therein that their tyrants were destroyed, &c., to incite them to assist in levying war, and in subverting the Constitution. 10. Assembling themselves with arms, with intent to murder divers of the Privy Council, and to levy war, and subvert the Constitution. 11. Levying war.\" \n\nDuring the trial, the defence argued that the statement of Edwards, a government spy, was unreliable and he was therefore never called to testify. Police persuaded two of the men, Robert Adams and John Monument, to testify against other conspirators in exchange for dropped charges. On 28 April most of the accused were sentenced to be hanged, drawn and quartered for high treason. All sentences were later commuted, at least in respect of this medieval form of execution, to hanging and beheading. The death sentences of Charles Cooper, Richard Bradburn, John Harrison, James Wilson and John Strange were commuted to transportation for life.\n\nArthur Thistlewood, Richard Tidd, James Ings, William Davidson and John Brunt were hanged at Newgate Prison on the morning of 1 May 1820 in front of a crowd of many thousands, some having paid as much as three guineas for a good vantage point from the windows of houses overlooking the scaffold. Infantry were stationed nearby, out of sight of the crowd, two troops of Life Guards were present, and eight artillery pieces were deployed commanding the road at Blackfriars Bridge. Large banners had been prepared with a painted order to disperse. These were to be displayed to the crowd if trouble caused the authorities to invoke the Riot Act. However, the behaviour of the multitude was \"peaceable in the extreme\". \n\nThe hangman was John Foxton. After the bodies had hung for half an hour, they were lowered one at a time and an unidentified individual in a black mask decapitated them against an angled block with a small knife. Each beheading was accompanied by shouts, booing and hissing from the crowd and each head was displayed to the assembled spectators, declaring it to be the head of a traitor, before placing it in the coffin with the remainder of the body.\n\nThe British government used the incident to justify the Six Acts that had been passed two months prior. However, in the House of Commons, Matthew Wood MP accused the government of purposeful entrapment of the conspirators to smear the campaign for parliamentary reform. The otherwise pro-government newspaper \"The Observer\" ignored the order of the Lord Chief Justice Sir Charles Abbott not to report the trial before the sentencing.\n\nThe conspiracy is the subject of many books, as well as one play, \"Cato Street\", written by the actor and author Robert Shaw. The conspiracy was also the basis for a 2001 radio drama, \"Betrayal: The Trial of William Davidson\" by Tanika Gupta, on BBC Radio 4.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54209352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54209352", "title": "Charles Karuga Koinange", "text": "Charles Karuga Koinange\n\nCharles Karuga Koinange (1920-2004), the son of a prominent colonial Kikuyu chief, served as key African colonial chief in Central Kenya during the 1950s. After Kenya's independence in 1963, Charles Karuga served as a District Commissioner and Provincial Commissioner in the independent Republic of Kenya. As a leading member of the prominent Koinange family, Charles Karuga Koinange held a prominent role in late colonial developments in Central Kenya, as well as politics in Central Kenya following Kenya's independence.\n\nCharles Karuga Koinange was the second son of Koinange Wa Mbiyu, a leading colonial African chief among the Kikuyu people of Central Kenya.\n\nCharles Karuga Koinange civil service career began in 1951 and ended in 1980. Beginning as an assistant to local chiefs in 1951, he then served as chief of the Kiambaa District from 1955 until 1961. This district had formerly been overseen by his father, Koinange Wa Mbiyu, from c. 1920 to 1939. During Charles Karuga's tenure as chief, his father was detained, first in Marsabit and then in Kapenguria as, according to the colonial government, a leader of the Mau Mau Rebellion of the early 1950s. Charles then served a short stint as an African Administrative Officer from 1961-1963, before moving on to serve as District Commissioner of Muranga and Nyeri Districts. His final administrative posts, which he began in 1967, as Provincial Commissioner of the Central Province and Eastern Provinces of Kenya.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Charles Karuga served as chairman of the Kenya Tea Development Authority.\n"}
{"id": "3979350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979350", "title": "Community empowerment network", "text": "Community empowerment network\n\nIn the United Kingdom, community empowerment networks (CENs) are networks of a collection of local community, voluntary and third sector organisations and groups, set up by the central government as part of an initiative to foster community involvement in regeneration at a local level. They get together periodically to discuss issues of concern to them in relation to regeneration plans. CENs exist locally across the UK. A CEN forms an important but small part of a Local Strategic Partnership.\n\nStatement from the Improvement and Development Agency's Website idea statement:\n"}
{"id": "3842406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3842406", "title": "Community ownership", "text": "Community ownership\n\nCommunity owned assets or organisations are those that are owned and controlled through some representative mechanism that allows a community to influence their operation or use and to enjoy the benefits arising.\n\nBenefits of ownership in infrastructure projects such as dams and irrigation are claimed to include increased responsiveness to needs of that community and the community valuing the projects more highly.\n\nCommunities can sometimes buy the land they live on and manage them through locally-run trusts. There are many examples of this in Scotland including Eigg, Assynt and potentially Ulva.\n\nIn Saranac Lake, New York, after the local Ames Department Store closed due to bankruptcy and residents were forced to travel 50 miles to Plattsburgh for staples, the town was approached by Walmart which offered to build a 250,000 square foot supercenter, but it was felt by the community that Walmart would negatively impact local business and increase traffic. As an alternative a community-owned store was organized and shares were sold to community residents. $500,000 was raised by about 600 residents who made an average investment of $800. goal last spring. The store, Saranac Lake Community Store, opened in October 29, 2011 in remodeled facilities in downtown Saranac Lake. Powell, Wyoming also has a community store established in 2002 under similar circumstances. In both instances the securities were intrastate offerings registered under less onerous state securities laws rather than federal law. Funds were raised in a similar way for an independent bookstore in Brooklyn, a coffeehouse in Oakland, and restaurants in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York and Hardwick, Vermont. In Hardwick two enterprises were created, one which operates a restaurant which prepares meals using locally grown food, another which bought and equipped the location as a restaurant. \n\nThe New Rules Project of the Institute for Local Self-Reliance a nonprofit corporation has worked to make financing of community owned business less onerous. H.R.2930, the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act , would relax securities law requirements making it easier for a community to raise money for community owned enterprises.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24518377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24518377", "title": "Damir Kaletović", "text": "Damir Kaletović\n\nDamir Kaletović is a multiple-award-winning investigative journalist from Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina. He is a former reporter for FTV, the public-service broadcasting organization of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former co-host of the FTV-sponsored political talk show \"60 Minutes\" (60 minuta), and a former reporter for OBN Television. He is best known for his high-profile role as co-host of \"60 Minutes\", which controversially investigated issues related post-war corruption and war crimes.\n\nHe has won numerous awards, including (but not limited to):\nDuring his career, he has been the target of various threats, some of them openly expressed.\n\nHis work has been perceived as controversial by Bosnia-Herzegovina's main ethno-nationalist political parties: the Bosniak Muslim Party of Democratic Action (SDA); the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ); and the Serbian Democratic Party (SDS).\n\nHe became unpopular among some nationalist groupings of Bosniak Muslims for his reporting on terrorism in the aftermath of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks, and specifically for his reporting on the Algerian Group in Bosnia-Herzegovina. In some of his reportages he accused six Algerians of alleged terrorism. He also sparked criticism for his reporting on islamic fundamentalism and the war crimes of Alija Izetbegović, the first president of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nHe has equally been viewed as controversial for his reporting on corruption, organized crime and war crimes in the Bosnian Serb-dominated entity of Republika Srpska in Bosnia-Herzegovina.\n"}
{"id": "46227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46227", "title": "Focus on the Family", "text": "Focus on the Family\n\nFocus on the Family (FOTF or FotF) is an American Christian conservative organization founded in 1977 in Southern California by psychologist James Dobson, based in Colorado Springs, Colorado. It is active in promoting an interdenominational effort toward its socially conservative views on public policy. Focus on the Family is one of a number of evangelical parachurch organizations that rose to prominence in the 1980s. As of the 2015 tax filing year, Focus on the Family declared itself to be a church.\n\nFocus on the Family's stated mission is \"nurturing and defending the God-ordained institution of the family and promoting biblical truths worldwide\". It promotes abstinence-only sexual education; creationism; adoption by married, opposite-sex parents; school prayer; and traditional gender roles. It opposes abortion; divorce; gambling; LGBT rights, particularly LGBT adoption and same-sex marriage; pornography; pre-marital sex; and substance abuse. Psychologists, psychiatrists, and social scientists have criticized Focus on the Family for trying to misrepresent their research to bolster FOTF's fundamentalist political agenda and ideology.\n\nThe core promotional activities of the organization include a daily radio broadcast by its president Jim Daly and his colleagues, providing free resources according to Focus on the Family views, and publishing magazines, videos, and audio recordings. The organization also produces programs for targeted audiences, such as \"Adventures in Odyssey\" for children, dramas, and \"Family Minute\".\n\n From 1977 to 2003, James Dobson served as the sole leader of the organization. In 2003, Donald P. Hodel became president and chief executive officer, tasked with the day-to-day operations. This left Dobson as chairman of the board of directors, with chiefly creative and speaking duties. Focus on the Family aims to equip families \"through radio broadcasts, websites, simulcasts, conferences, interactive forums, magazines, books, and counseling.\"\n\nIn March 2005, Hodel retired and Jim Daly, formerly the Vice President in charge of Focus on the Family's International Division, assumed the role of president and chief executive officer.\n\nIn November 2008, the organization announced that it was eliminating 202 jobs, representing 18 percent of its workforce. The organization also cut its budget from $160 million in fiscal 2008 to $138 million for fiscal 2009.\n\nIn February 2009, Dobson resigned his chairmanship, He left Focus on the Family in early 2010, and subsequently founded Family Talk as a non-profit organization and launched a new broadcast that began airing nationally on May 3, 2010. He is no longer affiliated with Focus on the Family.\n\nOn June 23, 2017, Vice President Mike Pence attended the organization's 40th anniversary celebration; at the event, he praised founder James Dobson, stated that President Donald Trump is an ally of the organization, and added that the Trump administration supports its goals (including the abolition of Planned Parenthood). Pence's attendance at the event, along with Focus on the Family's stances on LGBT rights, were criticised by the Human Rights Campaign.\n\nIn its IRS Form 990 for Tax Year 2015, dated October 26, 2017, Focus on the Family for the first time declared itself a \"church, convention of churches or association of churches\", claiming that it was no longer required to file the IRS disclosure form and that the sources and disposition of its $89 million budget were \"Not for public inspection.\" Tax Attorney Gail Harmon, who advises nonprofits on tax law, said she found the declaration \"shocking\", noting that \"\"There’s nothing about them that meets the traditional definition of what a church is. They don’t have a congregation, they don’t have the rites of various parts of a person’s life.\"\n\nFocus on the Family sees its primary ministry as helping couples \"build healthy marriages that reflect God's design\", based on what it sees as \"morals and values grounded in biblical principles.\" The group strongly opposes same-sex marriage.\n\nFocus on the Family formed Love Won Out, an ex-gay ministry, in 1998 and in 2009, it was sold to Exodus International. In June 2013, however, Exodus ceased activities and issued a statement which repudiated its aims and apologized for the harm their pursuit caused to LGBT people; see \"Exodus International#Closure\".\n\nFocus on the Family's Wait No More ministry works with adoption agencies, church leaders and ministry partners to recruit families to adopt children from foster care. The program co-sponsors several adoption conferences throughout the country each year. Since November 2008, more than 2,700 families have started the adoption process through Wait No More. In Colorado, the number of children waiting for adoption dropped from about 800 to 350, due in-part to the efforts of Wait No More. Focus on the Family's efforts to encourage adoption among Christian families is part of a larger effort by Evangelicals to, in their perception, live out what they see as the \"biblical mandate\" to help children. Focus on the Family supports laws to prevent couples from adopting who are cohabiting together outside of marriage as well as homosexual couples.\n\nFocus on the Family's Option Ultrasound Program (OUP) provides grants to qualifying crisis pregnancy centers to cover 80 percent of the cost of an ultrasound machine or sonography training. As of October 31, 2014, the program has provided 655 grants to centers in all 50 states and Bucharest, Romania. Focus on the Family began OUP in 2004 with the goal of convincing women not to have abortions. FOTF officials said that ultrasound services help a woman better understand her pregnancy and baby's development, creating an important \"bonding opportunity\" between \"mother and unborn child\".\n\nThe Option Ultrasound Program reported in 2014 that it has helped prevent more than 270,000 abortions since 2004. A study released in February 2012 shows that ultrasounds do not have a direct impact on an abortion decision. In 2011, FOTF President Jim Daly announced that while FOTF will continue to fight for the overturn of Roe v. Wade, in the meantime he would like to work with pro-choice groups like Planned Parenthood who state they want to make abortion \"safe, legal and rare\" towards the shared goal of making abortion less common. Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) introduced a sonogram bill in 2011 and – citing Focus on the Family – told Congress that \"78 percent of women who see and hear the fetal heartbeat choose life.\" She was later corrected by Focus on the Family, which released a statement saying they did not release such data.\n\nBoundless.org is Focus on the Family's website for young adults featuring articles, a blog, a podcast, and a conference. The website covers topics such as singleness, dating, relationships, popular culture, career and sex. Boundless.org recommends online dating as a means for Christian singles to find potential spouses.\n\nThe Day of Dialogue is a student-led event which takes place April 16. Founders describe the goal of the event, created in opposition to the anti-bullying and anti-homophobic Day of Silence, as \"encouraging honest and respectful conversation among students about God's design for sexuality.\" It was previously known as the Day of Truth and was founded by the Alliance Defense Fund in 2005.\n\nThe National Day of Prayer Task Force is an American evangelical conservative Christian non-profit organization which organizes, coordinates, and presides over Evangelical Christian religious observances each year on the National Day of Prayer. The website of the NDP Task Force states that \"its business affairs are separate\" from those of Focus on the Family, but also that \"between 1990 and 1993, Focus on the Family did provide grants in support of the NDP Task Force\" and that \"Focus on the Family is compensated for services rendered.\" Shirley Dobson, wife of James Dobson, was chairwoman of the NDP Task Force from 1991 to 2016, until Anne Graham Lotz, daughter of evangelist Billy Graham, assumed the post.\n\nFocus on the Family has additional ministries. Many are aimed at specific demographics including teenage boys and girls, children, college students, families, young adults, parents, while others are aimed at specific concerns, such as sexual problems, entertainment, and politics. Many have their own regular publications.\n\nFocus on the Family's 501(c)(3) status prevents them from advocating any individual political candidate. Focus on the Family's magazine \"Citizen\" is exclusively devoted to cultural and public policy issues. FOTF also has an affiliated group, Family Policy Alliance, though the two groups are legally separate. As a 501(c)(4) social welfare group, Family Policy Alliance has fewer political lobbying restrictions. FOTF's revenue in 2012 was USD $90.5 million, and that of Family Policy Alliance (formerly CitizenLink) was USD $8 million.\n\nFocus on the Family supports teaching of what it considers to be traditional \"family values\". It supports student-led and initiated prayer and supports the practice of corporal punishment. It strongly opposes LGBT rights, abortion, pornography, gambling, and pre-marital and extramarital sexual activity. Focus on the Family also promotes a religiously-centered conception of American identity and the support of Israel.\n\nFocus on the Family maintains a strong stand against abortion, and provides grant funding and medical training to assist crisis pregnancy centers (CPCs; also known as pregnancy resource centers) in obtaining ultrasound machines. According to the organization, this funding, which has allowed CPCs to provide pregnant women with live sonogram images of the developing fetus, has led directly to the birth of over 1500 babies who would have otherwise been aborted. The organization has been staunchly opposed to public funding for elective abortions.\n\nFocus on the Family broadcasts an eponymous national talk radio program. The program has a range of themes, such as fundamentalist Christian-oriented assistance for victims of rape or child abuse; parenting difficulties; child adoption; husband/wife roles; family history and traditions; struggles with gambling, pornography, alcohol, and drugs.\n\nFocus on the Family has been a prominent supporter of the pseudoscience of intelligent design, publishing pro-intelligent design articles in its \"Citizen\" magazine and selling intelligent design videos on its website. Focus on the Family co-published the intelligent design videotape \"Unlocking the Mystery of Life\" with the Discovery Institute, hub of the intelligent design movement.\n\nIn the 2008 U.S. presidential election, Focus on the Family shifted from supporting Mike Huckabee, to not supporting any candidate, to finally accepting the Republican ticket once Sarah Palin was added to the ticket. Prior to the election, a television and letter campaign was launched predicting terrorist attacks in four U.S. cities and equating the U.S. with Nazi Germany. This publicity was condemned by the Anti Defamation League. Within a month before the general election, Focus on the Family began distributing a 16-page letter titled \"Letter from 2012 in Obama's America\", which describes an imagined American future in which \"many of our freedoms have been taken away by a liberal Supreme Court of the United States and a majority of Democrats in both the House of Representatives and the Senate.\" According to \"USA Today\", the letter \"is part of an escalation in rhetoric from Christian right activists\" trying to paint Democratic Party presidential nominee Senator Barack Obama in a negative light.\n\nFocus on the Family Action supported Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) in his successful December 2, 2008, runoff election win. The organization, according to the \"Colorado Independent\", donated $35,310 in radio ads to the Chambliss runoff campaign effort. As the \"Independent\" reports, the Focus-sponsored ads were aired in about a dozen Georgia markets. The commercials were produced in the weeks after Focus laid off 202 employees – some 20 percent of its workforce – because of the national economic crisis.\n\nFocus on the Family works to preserve its interpretation of Biblical ideals of marriage and parenthood, taking a strong stance against LGBT rights, including same-sex marriage. Dobson expressed great concern for the institution of marriage in a 2003 letter to the Christian community. In reference to the same-sex marriage movement, Dobson says that the institution of marriage, \"is about to descend into a state of turmoil unlike any other in human history.\" Focus on the Family believes that marriage should be defined as only being between a man and a woman. Dobson supported the failed Federal Marriage Amendment, which would have defined marriage as a union between one man and one woman, preventing courts and state legislatures from challenging this definition.\n\nIn the same letter, Dobson says that traditional marriage is the cornerstone of society, and he states that the goal of the gay and lesbian movement is not to redefine marriage but to destroy the institution itself. \"Most gays and lesbians do not want to marry each other…the intention here is to destroy marriage altogether.\" Dobson argues that, without the institution of marriage, everyone would enjoy the benefits of marriage without limiting the number of partners or their gender. Focus on the Family views allowing same-sex marriage as \"…a stepping-stone on the road to eliminating all societal restrictions on marriage and sexuality.\"\n\nFocus on the Family asserts that the Bible lays out the correct plan for marriage and family. Dobson says that \"God created Eve to complement Adam physically, spiritually, and emotionally\". Dobson also uses the biblical figure Paul to affirm his views on marriage. He states that Paul maintained that men and women mutually complete each other, and to exchange a \"natural relationship for an unnatural one is sinful\".\n\nIn reference to same-sex marriage and same-sex couples with children, Dobson states, \"Same-sex relationships undermine the future generation's understanding of the fundamental principles of marriage, parenthood, and gender.\" He also stated that the alleged destruction of what it considers to be the traditional family by permitting same-sex marriage will lead to \"unstable homes for children\".\n\nFocus on the Family became more active in the same-sex marriage opposition movement after the Supreme Court of Canada declared that restricting marriage to opposite-sex couples is a violation of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms in 2003.\n\nDobson spoke at the 2004 rally against gay marriage called Mayday for Marriage. It was here for the first time that he endorsed a presidential candidate, George W. Bush. Here he denounced the Supreme Court rulings in favor of gay rights, and he urged rally participants to get out and vote so that the battle against gay rights could be won in the Senate.\n\nIn an interview with \"Christianity Today\" magazine, Dobson also explained that he was not in favor of civil unions. He stated that civil unions are just same-sex marriage under a different name. The main priority of the opposing same-sex marriage movement is to define marriage on the federal level as between a man and a woman and combat the passage of civil unions later.\n\nCivil rights advocacy groups identify Focus on the Family as a major opponent of gay rights. The Southern Poverty Law Center, a civil rights and hate group monitoring organization, described Focus on the Family as one of a \"dozen major groups [which] help drive the religious right's anti-gay crusade\". The SPLC does not list Focus on the Family as a hate group, however, since it opposes homosexuality \"on strictly Biblical grounds\".\n\nFocus on the Family is a member of ProtectMarriage.com, a coalition formed to sponsor California Proposition 8, a ballot initiative to restrict marriage to opposite-sex couples, which passed in 2008, but was subsequently struck down as being unconstitutional by a federal court in \"Perry v. Schwarzenegger\".\n\nSocial scientists have criticized Focus on the Family for misrepresenting their research in order to bolster its own perspective. Researcher Judith Stacey, whose work was used by Focus on the Family to claim that gays and lesbians do not make good parents, said that the claim was \"a direct misrepresentation of the research.\" She elaborated, \"Whenever you hear Focus on the Family, legislators or lawyers say, 'Studies prove that children do better in families with a mother and a father,' they are referring to studies which compare two-parent heterosexual households to single-parent households. The studies they are talking about do not cite research on families headed by gay and lesbian couples.\" FOTF claimed that Stacey's allegation was without merit and that their position is that the best interests of children are served when there is a father and a mother. \"We haven't said anything about sexual orientation\", said Glenn Stanton.\n\nJames Dobson cited the research of Kyle Pruett and Carol Gilligan in a \"Time Magazine\" guest article in the service of a claim that two women cannot raise a child; upon finding out that her work had been used in this way, Gilligan wrote a letter to Dobson asking him to apologize and to cease and desist from citing her work, describing herself as \"mortified to learn that you had distorted my work...Not only did you take my research out of context, you did so without my knowledge to support discriminatory goals that I do not agree with...there is nothing in my research that would lead you to draw the stated conclusions you did in the \"Time\" article.\" Pruett wrote a similar letter, in which he said that Dobson \"cherry-picked a phrase to shore up highly (in my view) discriminatory purposes. This practice is condemned in real science, common though it may be in pseudo-science circles. There is nothing in my longitudinal research or any of my writings to support such conclusions\", and asked that FOTF not cite him again without permission.\n\nAfter Elizabeth Saewyc's research on teen suicide was used by Focus on the Family to promote conversion therapy she said that \"the research has been hijacked for somebody's political purposes or ideological purposes and that's worrisome\", and that research in fact linked the suicide rate among LGBT teens to harassment, discrimination, and closeting. Other scientists who have criticized Focus on the Family for misrepresenting their findings include Robert Spitzer, Gary Remafedi, and Angela Phillips.\n\nIn 2010, Focus on the Family bought ad time during Super Bowl XLIV to air a commercial featuring Heisman Trophy winning Florida Gators quarterback Tim Tebow and his mother, Pam. In the ad, Pam described Tim as a \"miracle baby\" who \"almost didn't make it into this world\", and further elaborated that \"with all our family's been through, we have to be tough\" (after which Pam was promptly tackled by Tim). The ad directed viewers to the organization's website.\n\nWomen's rights groups asked CBS not to air the then-unseen ad, arguing that it was divisive. Planned Parenthood released a video response of its own featuring fellow NFL player Sean James. The claim that Tebow's family chose not to perform an abortion was also widely criticized; critics felt that the claim was implausible because it would be unlikely for doctors to recommend the procedure because abortion is illegal in the Philippines. CBS's decision to run the ad was also criticized for deviating from its past policy to reject advocacy-type ads during the Super Bowl, including ads by left-leaning groups such as PETA, MoveOn.org and the United Church of Christ (which wanted to run an ad that was pro-same-sex marriage). However, CBS stated that \"we have for some time moderated our approach to advocacy submissions after it became apparent that our stance did not reflect public sentiment or industry norms on the issue.\"\n\nFocus on the Family produced another commercial which ran during the second quarter of the January 14, 2012 Denver Broncos-New England Patriots AFC Divisional Playoff broadcast on CBS, featuring children reciting the Bible verse John 3:16. The game, given the months of preceding hype and media exposure for Tim Tebow (who now played for the Broncos), was seen by more than 30 million viewers, making it the most-watched AFC Divisional Playoff in more than a decade. The ad did not generate nearly the amount of controversy that surrounded the Super Bowl commercial. It did gain some national media attention, and president Jim Daly stated in a press release that its purpose was to \"help everyone understand some numbers are more important than the ones on the scoreboard.\"\n\nIn 2008, Dobson's \"Focus on the Family\" program was nominated for induction into the National Radio Hall of Fame. Nominations were made by the 157 members of the Hall of Fame and voting on inductees was handed over to the public using online voting. The nomination drew the ire of gay rights activists, who launched efforts to have the program removed from the nominee list and to vote for other nominees to prevent \"Focus\" from winning. However, on July 18, 2008, it was announced that the program had won and would be inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame in a ceremony on November 8, 2008. Truth Wins Out, a gay rights group, protested the ceremony with over 300 protesters.\n\n\"Focus on the Family New Zealand\" is an organisation promoting a conservative Christian ideology. It has a similar agenda to the Focus on the Family organisation in the United States. Focus on the Family supported a Citizens Initiated Referendum on the repeal of section 59 of the Crimes Act 1961.\n\n\nThe Singapore branch of FotF came under criticism in October 2014 over allegations of sexism and promoting gender stereotypes during their workshops on managing relationships for junior college students. The workshop received a complaint from both a Hwa Chong Junior College student, as well as negative feedback from the college management as being 'ineffective' and will stop by the end of the year.\n\nThe Focus on the Family headquarters is a four building, complex located off of Interstate 25 in northern Colorado Springs, Colorado, with its own ZIP code (80995). The buildings consist of the Administration building, International building, Welcome Center and Operations building (currently unused), and totals 526,070 square feet.\n\nFocus on the Family moved to its current headquarters from Pomona, California, in 1991, with 1200 employees. In 2002, the number of employees peaked at 1,400. By September 2011, after years of layoffs, they had 650 employees remaining. Christopher Ott of \"Salon\" said in 1998 that the FOTF campus has \"handsome new brick buildings, professional landscaping and even its own traffic signs\" and that \"The buildings and grounds are well-maintained and comfortable. If there is any ostentatious or corrupt influence here, it is nowhere in sight.\"\n\nWhile visiting the Focus on the Family complex, a couple had asked the staff if handling the sightseers in the main building was a distraction. The staff told the couple that it was a distraction; afterwards the couple donated $4 million to have a welcome center built. A visiting family donated of wood trim from the family's Pennsylvania lumber business so FOTF could build its administration building. As of 1998, James Dobson, in his welcome center film, compares his decision to build the headquarters in Colorado Springs to the founding of the temple in Jerusalem.\n"}
{"id": "40065090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40065090", "title": "Gerard Delanty", "text": "Gerard Delanty\n\nGerard Delanty (born 1960) is a British sociologist and Professor of Sociology and Social & Political Thought at the University of Sussex.\nHe is also the editor of European Journal of Social Theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "3184822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3184822", "title": "Harry Elmer Barnes", "text": "Harry Elmer Barnes\n\nHarry Elmer Barnes (June 15, 1889 – August 25, 1968) was an American historian who, in his later years, was known for his historical revisionism and Holocaust denial. Barnes taught history at Columbia University from 1918 to 1929. Afterwards, he worked as a freelance writer and occasional adjunct professor at smaller schools. Through his position at Columbia and his prodigious scholarly output, Barnes was once highly regarded as a historian. However, by the end of the 1950s, he had lost credibility because of the major role he played in the inception of the Holocaust denial movement.\n\nBarnes used his wide reading to summarize vast quantities of information and present histories that would be \"usable\" to his readers. He published more than 30 books, 100 essays, and 600 articles and book reviews, making him one of the most prolific writers in the social sciences.\n\nBarnes took a PhD at Columbia in 1918 in history with a study in the history of penology. He was among the graduate students of William Archibald Dunning, who was influential in the history of the Reconstruction era in the United States. In 1917 Barnes published the first edition of \"An Introduction to the History of Sociology\", a collaborative work intended to be a comprehensive summary of sociological development. Barnes lectured widely between 1918 and 1941 on current events and recent history.\n\nDuring World War I, Barnes had been a strong supporter of the war effort; his anti-German propaganda was rejected by the National Board for Historical Service, which described it as \"too violent to be acceptable\". After the war, Barnes' views towards Germany reversed: he became as much of a Germanophile as he previously had been Germanophobic. Barnes took the view that the United States had fought on the wrong side in World War I.\n\nIn the 1920s, Barnes was noted as a vehement advocate that Germany had borne no responsibility for the outbreak of war in 1914, and had instead been the victim of Allied aggression. In 1922, Barnes was arguing that the responsibility for World War I was split evenly between the Allies and the Central Powers. By 1924, Barnes was writing that Austria was the power most responsible for the war, but that Russia and France were more responsible than Germany. By 1926, Barnes argued that Russia and France bore the entire responsibility for the outbreak of war in 1914, and the Central Powers none. In Barnes' view, \"vested political and historical interests\" were behind the \"official\" account that Germany started World War I.\n\nBarnes' research on the origins of World War I was generously funded in the 1920s by the German Foreign Ministry, which intended to prove that Germany had not started World War I as a way of undermining the Treaty of Versailles. In Barnes' articles on the causes of World War I in \"The Nation\", \"Current History\", \"Christian Century\", and above all in his 1927 book \"The Genesis of the World War\", he portrayed France and Russia as the aggressors of the July Crisis of 1914, and Germany and Austria-Hungary as the victims of a Franco-Russian plot. After 1924, Barnes had a close relationship with the Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War, a pseudo-historical think-tank based in Berlin secretly funded by the German government and founded by Major Alfred von Wegerer, the former \"völkisch\" activist. The Centre's sole purpose was to prove Germany was the victim of aggression in 1914, and that the Versailles treaty was morally invalid. The Centre provided Barnes with research material, made funds available to him, translated his writings into other languages, and funded his trip to Germany in 1926. During Barnes' 1926 trip to Germany, the writer was welcomed for his efforts to, as Barnes described it, \"clear Germany of the dishonour and fraud of the war-guilt clause of the Treaty of Versailles\".\n\nDuring his European trip, Barnes met with the former German Emperor, Wilhelm II, at his estate in the Netherlands. According to Barnes, the ruler said that he \"was happy to know that I did not blame him for starting the war in 1914.\" However, Barnes added, \"He disagreed with my view that Russia and France were chiefly responsible. He held that the villains of 1914 were the international Jews and Free Masons, who, he alleged, desired to destroy national states and the Christian religion\".\n\nIn addition, during this 1926 trip Barnes met all of the surviving German and Austrian leaders of 1914. Based on their statements, he was confirmed in his belief that Germany was not responsible for World War I. To assist Barnes with his writings against the so-called \"Kriegschuldlüge\" (\"war guilt lie\"), the Germans put Barnes into contact with Milos Boghitschewitsch, a former Serbian diplomat living in Berlin. He was considered disreputable as, in exchange for German gold, he provided false testimony about the actions of the Serbian government in 1914.\n\nIn 1926, Barnes published \"The Genesis of the World War\", the first American book written about 1914 that was based upon the available primary sources. He argued that World War I was the result of a Franco-Russian plot to destroy Germany. Wegerer wrote about \"The Genesis of the World War\" that it would be \"scarcely possible to provide a better book than this one\".\n\nBarnes was opposed to the idea of World War I as \"just war\", which he believed to have been caused by the economic imperialism of France and Russia. In 1925, Barnes wrote:\n\nIf we can but understand how totally and terribly we were \"taken in\" between 1914 and 1918 by the salesmen of this most holy and idealistic world conflict, we shall be the better prepared to be on our guard against the seductive lies and deceptions which will be put forward by similar groups when urging the necessity of another world catastrophe in order to \"crush militarism\", \"make the world safe for democracy\", put an end to all further wars, etc.\n\nIn his preface to \"The Genesis of the World War\", Barnes called World War I an \"unjust war against Germany\". Barnes wrote in his preface that:\n\nthe truth about the causes of the World War is one of the livest and most important practical issues of the present day. It is basic to the whole matter of the present European and world situation, resting as it does upon an unfair and unjust Peace Treaty, which was itself erected upon a most uncritical and complete acceptance of the grossest forms of war-time illusions concerning war guilt.\n\nBarnes said when writing \"The Genesis of the World War\", he was compelled by \"an ardent desire to execute an adequate exposure of the authors of the late World War in particular\". According to Barnes, the responsibility for World War I was as follows:\n\nIn estimating the order of guilt of the various countries we may safely say that the only direct and immediate responsibility for the World War falls upon Serbia, France and Russia, with the guilt about equally distributed. Next in order—far below France and Russia—would come Austria, through she never desired a general European war. Finally, we place Germany and England as tied for last place, both being opposed to war in the 1914 crisis. Probably the German public was somewhat more favorable to military activity than the English people, but ... the Kaiser made much more strenuous efforts to preserve the peace of Europe in 1914 than did Sir Edward Grey.\n\nThe German government so liked Barnes's writings on the causes of World War I that it provided free copies of his articles to hand out at German embassies around the world. Though most German historians in the 1920s regarded Barnes merely as a propagandist whose work was mainly meant to appeal to a mass as opposed to an academic audience, the right-wing German historian Hans Herzfeld called Barnes's work \"a document in the struggle against the war guilt thesis whose noble spirit cannot be appreciated enough\". The German-Canadian historian Holger Herwig has commented that Barnes's work on the origins of World War I, together with others of a similar bent, did immense scholarly damage, as generations of university students accepted Barnes' \"apologias\" for Germany as the truth. In 1969, the British historian A. J. P. Taylor called \"The Genesis of the World War\" \"the most preposterously pro-German\" account of the outbreak of war in 1914.\n\nIn 1926, the American historian Bernadotte Schmitt wrote about \"The Genesis of the World War\" that:\n\nIt must be said that Mr. Barnes' book fall short of being the objective and scientific analysis of the great problems which is so urgently needed. As a protest against the old notion of unique German responsibility for the war, it will be welcomed by all honest men, but as an attempt to set up a new doctrine of unique Franco-Russian responsibility, it must be unhesitatingly rejected. The war was a consequence, perhaps inevitable, of the whole system of alliances and armaments, and in the origin, development, and working of that system, the Central Powers, more particularly Germany, played a conspicuous part. Indeed, it was Germany that put the system to the test in July 1914. Because the test failed, she is not entitled to claim that no responsibility attaches to her.\n\nIn 1980, the American historian Lucy Dawidowicz attacked Barnes and contrasted his work with the German historian Fritz Fischer's book \"Griff nach der Weltmacht\" (\"Grasping at World Power\").\n\nBarnes's very public attacks on the idea of World War I as a just war, and his thesis that the United States should not have fought in the war, won him the admiration and friendship in the 1920s of many people in the United States such Oswald Garrison Villard, the Socialist leader Norman Thomas, the critic H. L. Mencken, and the historian Charles A. Beard. Long regarded as a leader of the progressive intelligentsia, Barnes joined many of its intellectual leaders such as Beard in opposing from the left the New Deal and, at the price of their reputations, American entry into World War II. In the years following the war, he argued that Adolf Hitler did not want to go to war with the United States and that President Franklin D. Roosevelt had deliberately provoked the attack on Pearl Harbor. He also contested many aspects of the Holocaust, claiming death figures were far lower and arguing that all sides were guilty of equally awful atrocities.\n\nIn the late 1930s, Barnes emerged as a leading isolationist and German apologist who defended German foreign policy as a legitimate effort to overthrow the Treaty of Versailles, which Barnes regarded as monstrously unfair to Germany. In 1937, Barnes identified as a \"noninterventionist\" opposed to the United States being involved in any sort of foreign war. After World War II, Barnes continued to expound his pre-war views of European diplomacy. In 1939, Barnes published an article that charged British diplomat Sir Robert Vansittart with scheming to commit aggression against Germany in the late 1930s. As a result, Vansittart sued Barnes for libel. In a letter to his friend Oswald Villard, Barnes said that Vansittart's libel suit against him was a \"plot of the Jews and the Anti-Defamation League to intimidate any American historians who propose to tell the truth about the causes of the war\". Barnes said that Louis Nizer, Vansittart's lawyer, was an \"Anti-Defamation League stooge\" who had \"needled Vansittart into action\".\n\nBarnes wrote further:\nIf I could raise money enough for a real defense we could make this an international \"cause celebre\", but I cannot fight the thirty million dollars now in the coffers of the Anti-Defamation League to be used for character assassination on empty pockets. If we let them get away with this, we are licked from the start.The American historian Deborah Lipstadt has documented that the Anti-Defamation League had nothing to do with Vansittart or his libel suit against Barnes. She says that Barnes' claims otherwise were a sign of his anti-Semitism.\n\nIn 1940, the \"New York World-Telegram\" newspaper dropped Barnes' weekly column. The writer responded by complaining the action was due to a conspiracy against him, involving the British MI6 intelligence service, the House of Morgan, and all of the Jewish department store owners in New York City. Barnes alleged that the latter had threatened the publisher of the \"New York World-Telegram\" with the \"loss of all advertising if he kept me on any longer\".\n\nAfter World War II, Barnes was increasingly strident in his writing, which alienated many and made it difficult for his writings to gain publication. Most of Barnes' work after 1945 was self-published. In particular, Barnes claimed that a historical black-out had covered up the real origins of World War II. In his 1947 pamphlet, \"The Struggle Against The Historical Blackout\", Barnes claimed that \"court historians\" suppressed that Hitler was the most \"reasonable\" leader in the world in 1939, and that France's Premier Édouard Daladier wanted to commit aggression against Germany aided and abetted by a scheming and dishonest British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and the U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt. In the same pamphlet, Barnes claimed that, as part of the alleged smear campaign that had been committed against Germany, Allied governments had falsely charged Germany with responsibility for crimes that she did not commit.\n\nIn 1948, Barnes wrote to Villard, saying that Winston Churchill and Roosevelt, \"backed by certain pressure groups\", caused the outbreak of war in 1939. Later in 1948, Barnes wrote a statement saying that France had repeatedly committed aggression against Germany, and that, \"Offhand I cannot recall a really unprovoked German invasion of France in modern times\". Barnes' statement contained a list of every French invasion of Germany starting in 1552 and ended with: \"1918 French invade Germany with American aid. 1944–45 French again ride into Germany on the backs of the Americans.\"\n\nIn a letter to his friend Charles Tansill in 1950, Barnes described German foreign policy in 1939 as the \"most reasonable of them all\". Barnes wrote that Britain was \"almost solely responsible for the outbreak of war on both the Eastern and Western fronts.\" In Barnes' view, Germany did not \"precipitously launch\" an invasion of Poland in 1939, but was instead \"forced\" into war by British \"acts of economic strangulation\".\n\nIn a 1953 essay, \"Revisionism and the Historical Black-out\", which appeared in Barnes' self-published book, \"Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace,\" he wrote:\nIt is no exaggeration to say that the American Smearbund, operating through newspaper editors and columnists, \"hatchet-men\" book reviewers, radio commentators, pressure-group intrigue and espionage, and academic pressures and fears, has accomplished about as much in the way of intimidating honest intellectuals in this country as Hitler, Goebbels, Himmler, the Gestapo, and concentration camps were able to do in Nazi Germany.\n\nA strong non-interventionist, Barnes was very publicly opposed to the United States fighting in the Korean War.\n\nIn 1955, Barnes first met David Hoggan, and played a key role in helping Hoggan adapt his 1948 PhD dissertation, \"The Breakdown of German-Polish Relations in 1939: The Conflict Between the German New Order and the Polish Idea of Central Eastern Europe,\" into his 1961 book, \"Der erzwungene Krieg\" (\"The Forced War\"). It was \"based on, but quite different from, the dissertation\", and Hoggan blamed Britain and Poland for World War II. In 1963, Barnes self-published a pamphlet, \"Blasting the Historical Black-out\", in which he offered some praise for A. J. P. Taylor's 1961 book, \"The Origins of the Second World War.\" Barnes said that he thought Hoggan's book was better than Taylor's. In \"Blasting the Historical Black-out\", Barnes referred to the \"alleged wartime crimes of Germany\" and wrote that, \"Even assuming that all the charges ever made by the Nazis by anybody of reasonable sanity and responsibility are true, the Allies did not come off much, if any better\". Barnes wrote further that the suffering by ethnic Germans expelled from Czechoslovakia and Poland after World War II were \"obviously far more hideous and prolonged than those of the Jews said to have been exterminated in great numbers by the Nazis.\"\n\nResponding to an extremely hostile review of \"Der erzwungene Krieg\" by the American historian Gerhard Weinberg in the \"American Historical Review\" in October 1962, Barnes and Hoggan wrote a series of letters rebutting Weinberg's arguments. Weinberg in turn wrote letters replying to and rebutting the arguments of Hoggan and Barnes. The exchanges between Hoggan and Barnes on one side and Weinberg on the other became increasingly rancorous and vitriolic; in October 1963, the editors of the \"American Historical Review\" announced that (in the interests of decorum) they would cease publishing letters relating to Hoggan's book.\n\nIn his 1962 pamphlet, \"Revisionism and Brainwashing\", Barnes claimed that there was a \"lack of any serious opposition or concerted challenge to the atrocity stories and other modes of defamation of German national character and conduct.\" Barnes wrote that, in his view, there was \"a failure to point out the atrocities of the Allies were more brutal, painful, mortal and numerous than the most extreme allegations made against the Germans.\" Starting at this time, Barnes started to cite the French Holocaust denier Paul Rassinier, whom Barnes described as a \"distinguished French historian\" who had exposed the \"exaggerations of the atrocity stories\". In a 1964 article entitled \"Zionist Fraud\", published in \"The American Mercury,\" Barnes wrote:\n\nThe courageous author [Rassinier] lays the chief blame for misrepresentation on those whom we must call the swindlers of the crematoria, the Israeli politicians who derive billions of marks from nonexistent, mythical and imaginary cadavers, whose numbers have been reckoned in an unusually distorted and dishonest manner.In 1964, Barnes and Rassinier met and became friends. As a result, Barnes translated Rassinier's book \"The Drama Of the European Jews\" into English; it was published by an anti-Semitic publishing house named Liberty Bell.\n\nUsing Rassinier as his source, Barnes claimed that Germany was the victim of aggression in both 1914 and 1939, and that the Holocaust was just propaganda to justify a war of aggression against Germany in the latter case. Barnes thought that World War II had ended in disaster for the West, because Germany was divided and the United States locked into the Cold War. Barnes thought that this was a terrible outcome, as he asserted that Germany never wanted war. Barnes claimed that, in order to justify the \"horrors and evils of the Second World War\", the Allies made the Nazis the \"scapegoat\" for their own misdeeds.\n\nBarnes said there were two false claims made about World War II; namely, that Germany started the war in 1939, and that they conducted the Holocaust. In Barnes' opinion: \"Hitler setting off the war was also deemed responsible for the wholesale extermination of the Jews, for it was admitted that this did not begin until a considerable time after war broke out.\" Barnes said: \"The size of the German reparations to Israel has been based on the \"theory\" that vast numbers of Jews were exterminated at the \"express order of Hitler\", some six million being the most usually accepted number\" (emphasis in the original).\n\nBarnes repeated his ideas many times. In his 1966 essay \"Revisionism: A Key to Peace\", Barnes wrote:\n\nEven if one were to accept the most extreme and exaggerated indictment of Hitler and the National Socialists for their activities after 1939 made by anybody fit to remain outside a mental hospital, it is most alarmingly easy to demonstrate that the atrocities of the Allies in the same period were more numerous as to victims and were carried out for the most part \"by methods more brutal and painful then that alleged extermination in gas ovens\". (Emphasis in the original.)\n\nIn his 1967 pamphlet, \"The Public Stake in Revisionism\", Barnes said that the historical \"blackout\" with regards to World War II had become a \"smotherout\" as a result of the trial of Adolf Eichmann. Writing about the Eichmann trial of 1961, Barnes said that the trial showed \"an almost adolescent gullibility and excitability on the part of Americans relative to German wartime crimes, real or \"alleged\"\" (emphasis in original). Barnes wrote that the charges against Eichmann rested on \"fundamental but \"unproved\" assumptions that what Hitler and the National Socialists did in the years \"after\" Britain and the United States entered the war revealed that they were ... vile, debased, brutal and bloodthirsty gangsters\" (emphasis in the original). Barnes accused the American media of publishing \"sensational articles\" about \"exaggerated National Socialist savagery\". Barnes described the expulsion of Germans from Eastern Europe as the \"final solution\" for the German people. Writing of the expulsion of the ethnic Germans from the Sudetenland region of Czechoslovakia in 1945–46, he claimed that \"at least four million of them perished in the process from butchery, starvation and disease.\" Barnes wrote that the Anglo-American bombing offensive, together with the expulsions of the ethnic Germans from Eastern Europe, were far worse than anything the Nazis were alleged to have done. In \"The Public Stake in Revisionisim\", Barnes wrote that \"The number of civilians exterminated by the Allies, before, during, and after the Second World War, equaled, if it did not far exceed those liquidated by the Germans and the Allied liquidation program was often carried out by methods which were far more brutal and painful then \"whatever extermination actually took place\" in German gas ovens\". Barnes said that certain (unnamed) \"court historians\" were guilty of ensuring that Allied war crimes were never \"cogently and frankly placed over against the doings, \"real or alleged\", at Auschwitz.\" Barnes acknowledged that there were concentration camps in Nazi Germany, but denied there were ever death camps. Barnes said that when \"court historians\" were forced by \"revisionists\" to admit there were no death camps, the evidence for gas chambers at the death camps was manufactured.\n\nBarnes wrote:\n\nWhat is deemed important today is not whether Hitler started war in 1939 or whether Roosevelt was responsible for Pearl Harbour, but the number of prisoners were \"allegedly\" done to death in the concentration camps operated by Germany during the war. These camps were first presented as those in Germany, such as Dachau, Belsen, Buchenwald, Sachsenhausen, and Dora, but it was demonstrated that there had been no systematic extermination in those camps. Attention was then moved on to Auschwitz, Treblinka, Belzec, Chelmno, Jonoska, Tarnow, Ravensbrück, Mauthausen, Breznia and Birkenau, which does not exhaust the list that appears to have been extended as needed.Barnes claimed that \"court historians\", to keep the public from getting \"bored\", manufactured stories about German crimes against humanity that were \"made more unceasing, exaggerated and inflammatory\".\n\nIn response, the German historian Martin Broszat wrote a letter in 1962 clarifying and defining the differences between concentration and death camps. In his letter to the \"Die Zeit\" newspaper, Broszat wrote that he wanted to \"hammer home, once more, the persistently ignored or denied difference between concentration and extermination camps.\" In his letter, Broszat claimed this was not an \"admission\" that there was no Holocaust, but rather an attempt to \"set the record straight\" about the differences between concentration and death camps. Broszat noted the differences between concentration camps, which were places where the inmates were consistently mistreated, but were not the subject of annihilation, and death camps, which existed solely for the purpose of exterminating their inmates. Broszat denied there was a functioning gas chamber at the Dachau concentration camp (though he noted that one was built shortly before the end of the war as part of the effort to convert Dachau into a death camp, but was never used). Broszat commented that, though there were many concentration camps in Germany, all of the German death camps for the genocide of the European Jews were located in Nazi-occupied Poland. Broszat argued that this confusion in the public's mind between concentration and death camps, and the tendency to erroneously describe Dachau as a death camp, was aiding the early Holocaust deniers like Rassinier, Hoggan, and Barnes, who made much of the fact that there was no functioning gas chamber at Dachau. In the same way, Barnes denied that the \"Einsatzgruppen\" murdered millions of Jews in the occupied Soviet Union, and instead claimed that the \"Einsatzgruppen\" were \"battling guerilla warfare behind the lines\".\n\nBarnes often attacked West Germany for apologizing to the Jews for the Holocaust. He wrote that the West German government should challenge the \"unfair\" verdict and \"false dogmas\" of World War II, which he claimed prevented \"the restoration of Germany to its proper position of unity, power and respect among the nations of the world\". Barnes drew unfavorable contrasts between the Weimar Republic, which had in the 1920s vigorously fought the so-called \"Kriegsschuldlüge\" (\"war guilt lie\") that Germany started World War I, with the \"masochistic\" behavior of the government of Konrad Adenauer in the 1950s. Barnes accused Adenauer of having \"brainwashed\" and \"indoctrinated\" the German people into believing an \"indictment of German responsibility for the war\". Barnes accused Adenauer of \"opposing the discovery and publication of the truth\". Barnes professed to be \"deeply puzzled\" that the West German government was willing to accept responsibility for the Holocaust and its \"downright disinclination to seek to refute the most outrageous charges of cruelty and barbarism leveled against Germany by conscienceless atrocity mongers and the continuation to this very day of not-so-little Nuremberg trials.\" In 1962, Barnes attacked the West German president Heinrich Lübke for his speech in Israel asking for forgiveness for the German people for the Holocaust. Barnes called the speech \"almost incredible grovelling\" and \"subserviency\" to the Jews. Barnes often said that Jews contended that they had been the victims of anti-Semitism throughout the ages, which he thought was false. Barnes claimed that those questioned this view were unjustly labeled anti-Semitic. According to Barnes, those behind the \"smotherout\" about Nazi Germany believed that \"it was far worse to exterminate Jews, even at the ratio of two Gentiles to one Jew, than to liquidate Gentiles.\"\n\nLipstadt's 1993 book \"Denying the Holocaust\" devotes chapter 4, \"The First Stirrings of Denial in America\", to Barnes as the main link between revisionism in the 1920s (re-evaluation of German responsibility for World War I) and the emergence in the 1950s of Holocaust denial (arguing that the Jewish Holocaust either did not happen or was exaggerated by wartime Allied propaganda and postwar Jewish politics). She notes that the German government of the 1920s enthusiastically supported and promoted Barnes' views as exonerating their country, but the postwar West German government accepted national responsibility for the Holocaust, solicited forgiveness, and paid reparations to Jewish survivors. This difference meant that Barnes in his later years had allied himself with American and European anti-Semites and cranks, rather than with respectable or official opinion. Historian Lucy Dawidowicz concurs.\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1648538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1648538", "title": "Heckler's veto", "text": "Heckler's veto\n\nHeckler's veto is an American free speech term describing situations in which a party who disagrees with a speaker's message is able to unilaterally trigger events that result in the speaker being silenced.\n\nIn the legal sense, a heckler's veto occurs when the speaker's right is curtailed or restricted by the government in order to prevent a \"reacting party's\" behavior. The common example is the termination of a speech or demonstration in the interest of maintaining the public peace based on the anticipated negative reaction of someone opposed to that speech or demonstration. The term was coined by University of Chicago professor of law Harry Kalven.\n\nColloquially, the term is used to describe situations where hecklers or demonstrators silence a speaker without intervention of the law.\n\nIn the United States, case law regarding the heckler's veto is mixed. Most findings say that the acting party's actions cannot be pre-emptively stopped due to \"fear\" of heckling by the reacting party, but in the immediate face of violence, authorities can force the acting party to cease their action in order to satisfy the hecklers.\n\nThe best known case involving the heckler's veto is probably \"Feiner v. New York\", handed down by the Supreme Court in 1951. Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, writing for the majority, held that police officers acted within their power in arresting a speaker if the arrest was \"motivated solely by a proper concern for the preservation of order and protection of the general welfare\". 340 U.S. 315.\n\nIn \"Gregory v. Chicago\" (1969), Justice Hugo Black, in a concurring opinion, argued that arresting demonstrators as a consequence of unruly behavior of by-standers would amount to a heckler's veto.\n\nIt was rejected in \"Hill v. Colorado\" (2000), where the Supreme Court rejected the \"Heckler's Veto,\" finding \"governmental grants of power to private actors\" to be \"constitutionally problematic\" in cases where \"the regulations allowed a single, private actor to unilaterally silence a speaker\".\n\nHeckler's veto is often used outside a strict legal context. One example is an article by Nat Hentoff in which he claims that \"First Amendment law is clear that everyone has the right to picket a speaker, and to go inside the hall and heckle him or her—but not to drown out the speaker, let alone rush the stage and stop the speech before it starts. That's called the 'heckler's veto'.\"\n\nIn Hentoff's formulation, the heckler him or herself is the party which directly carries out the \"veto\" and suppresses speech. This runs counter to the legal meaning of the phrase. Note that, to a lawyer familiar with the First Amendment law, the phrase \"heckler's veto\" means something different from what the plain English interpretation of the words suggests. In First Amendment law, a heckler's veto is the suppression of speech by the government, because of [the possibility of] a violent reaction by hecklers. It is the government that vetoes the speech, because of the reaction of the heckler. Under the First Amendment, this kind of heckler's veto is unconstitutional.'\n\nUniversity of California, Berkeley Law School Dean Erwin Chemerinsky has invoked the concept in an editorial following an incident on February 8, 2010, in which heckling by individual students disrupted a speech by the Israeli ambassador Michael Oren. Chemerinsky explained that broad freedom exists to invite speakers and hold demonstrations, but that once a speaker has begun an invited lecture, “You have the right—if you disagree with me—to go outside and perform your protest. But you don’t get the right to come in when I’m talking and shout me down. Otherwise people can always silence a speaker by heckler’s veto, and Babel results”.\n\nMichigan State University professor of political science William B. Allen has used the phrase \"verbal terrorism\" to refer to the same phenomenon, defining it as \"calculated assault characterized by loud side-conversations, shouted interruptions, jabbered false facts, threats and personal insults\".\n\nConservative writer and commentator Ben Shapiro cited the term during a 2017 testimony to Congress in reference to suppression of right-wing speakers on college campuses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27678304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27678304", "title": "Human rights in Zambia", "text": "Human rights in Zambia\n\nHuman rights in Zambia are addressed in the constitution. However, the \"Country Report on Human Rights Practices in Zambia for 2012\" by the United States Department of State noted that in general, the government's human rights record remained poor. \n\nThe \"Country Report on Human Rights Practices in Zambia for 2012\" noted the following serious human rights abuses:\n\nThe following are Zambia's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House (1 is best, 7 is worst).\n\nFreedoms of expression and of the press are constitutionally guaranteed in Zambia, but the government frequently restricts these rights in practice. Although the ruling Patriotic Front has pledged to free state-owned media—consisting of the Zambia National Broadcasting Corporation (ZNBC) and the widely circulated \"Zambia Daily Mail\" and \"Times of Zambia\"—from government editorial control, these outlets have generally continued to report along pro-government lines. Many journalists reportedly practice self-censorship since most government newspapers do have prepublication review. The ZNBC dominates the broadcast media, though several private stations have the capacity to reach large portions of the population.\n\nThe rights group Freedom House, which publishes annual country reports on press freedom status, has ranked Zambia’s press as “Not Free” even in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39041016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39041016", "title": "Indigenous Peoples' Rights Act of 1997", "text": "Indigenous Peoples' Rights Act of 1997\n\nIndigenous People's Rights Act of 1997 (IPRA) (RA 8371) is a legislation that recognize and promote all the rights of Indigenous Cultural Communities/Indigenous Peoples of the Philippines.\n\nYear 1909, in the case of Cariño vs. Insular Government, the court has recognized long occupancy of land by an indigenous member of the cultural communities as one of private ownership, which, in legal concept, is termed \"native title\". This case paved the way for the government to review the so-called \"native title\" or \"private right.\" In the year 1919, the Second Public Land Act was enacted, recognizing the right of ownership of any native of the country who, since July 4, 1907, or prior thereto, has continuously occupied and cultivated, either by himself or through his predecessors-in-interest, a tract of agricultural public land.\n\nIn 1936, Commonwealth Act No.141, amended by R.A. 3872 of 1964, was passed which provides that members of the national cultural minorities who have resided on agricultural, public land since July 4, 1955 are entitled to recognition of ownership whether or not the land has been certified as \"disposable.\" They shall be conclusively presumed to have performed all conditions essential to a government grant and shall be entitled to a certificate of title.\n\nIn the 1970s, the laws protecting indigenous people's lands expanded to territorial and bigger domains. Under Bureau of Forestry Administrative Order No. 11 of 1970, all forest concessions were made subject to the private rights of cultural minorities within the area as evidenced by their occupation existing at the time a license is issued by the government. The Revised Forestry Code of 1975 (Presidential Decree 705 under President Marcos) defines this \"private right\" of as \"places of abode and worship, burial grounds and old clearings.\"\n\nIn 1978, the Presidential Arm for National Minorities (PANAMIN) was authorized to design, implement and maintain settlements among the National Minorities. Prior to this, a Presidential Decree was issued in 1974, \"declaring all agricultural lands occupied and cultivated by members of the national Cultural Communities since 1964 as alienable and disposable, except the islands of Panay and Negros and the provinces of Abra, Quezon, Benguet and Camarines which became effective on March 11, 1984.\"\n\nThe most recent laws before the Indigenous People's Rights Act of 1997 was passed which recognize the existence of ancestral land right are the Organic Act of Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (RA 6734, 1989), and the Organic Act for the Cordillera Autonomous Region (RA 6766, 1989).\n\nThe decrees that have been passed fail to encompass all the needs of the indigenous people primarily because of failure in implementation and sole focus on the land and domains only.\n\nBecause of this, a more comprehensive law is needed that \"seeks to stop prejudice against indigenous people through recognition of certain rights over their ancestral lands, and to live in accordance recognize and protect the rights of the indigenous people not only to their ancestral domain but to social justice and human rights, self-determination and empowerment, and their cultural integrity,\" This then gave birth to movements for a comprehensive law that will protect not only the lands, but human rights of the Filipino indigenous people.\n\nCIPRAD or the Coalition for Indigenous People's Rights and Ancestral Domains is an alliance of Indigenous People's Organizations (IPOs) and non-government organizations (NGOs) created to pursue the advocacy for IP rights and ancestral domains. The Coalition is participated by IPOs in the Cordillera, Region I, Nueva Vizcaya, Cagayan, Caraballo, Sierra Madre, Quezon, Aurora, Quirino, Nueva Ecija, Zambales, Pampanga, Bulacan, Mindoro Occidental, Palawan, Panay, Davao, Cagayan, Cotabato and Zamboanga. CIPRAD partnered with various NGOs organizations such as Episcopal Commission on Indigenous Peoples, National Peace Conference, Center for Living Heritage and PANLIPI (Legal Assistance Center for Indigenous Filipinos) in order to lobby for the IPRA or Indigenous People's Rights Act.\n\nIPRA, formerly known as Ancestral Domain Bill, was first filed in the Congress sometime in 1987 under the Senate Bill No. 909 authored by Senator Santanina Rasul, Senator Joseph Estrada and Senator Alberto Romulo, during the 8th Congress, but was never enacted in to law. In the 9th Congress, Senator Rasul introduced Senate Bill No. 1029 and Senator Macapagal-Arroyo introduced Senate Bill No. 1849. However, the bill was never sponsored and deliberated upon in the floor.\n\nDespite these failed efforts, the IPOs decided to give it another try. Decisions have been made during social negotiations among NGOs and POs to rename the bill from Ancestral Domain Bill to Indigenous Peoples Rights Act to emphasize the holistic approach and character of the bill. A consensus was made on December 1995 between IP representatives and NGO representatives. Seven non-negotiable points of the bill that were promoted are the following:\n\na) recognition of native ttitle and rights of IPs to ancestral domains, b )respect for the right to cultural integrity, c) recognition of indigenous peoples’ political structures and governance, d) delivery of basic services to the indigenous peoples, e) respect for human rights, f) elimination of discrimination, g) and creation of an office that would cater to the IPs needs.\n\nYear 1996, during the 10th Congress, Senator Juan Flavier sponsored the Bill no. 1728 which meant that he has to defend the bill in all the Senate deliberations and discussions. In his sponsorship speech, he discussed the legal bases for the bill which can be found in the 1987 Constitution. He also discussed the basic rights of the ICCs, the contents of the bill itself, and the immediate need of protection of the Filipino Indigenous People.\n\nDespite difficult hurdles and amendments enacted in the Congress which nearly brought the movement to its death, the House of Representatives finally approved the bill late in September 1997. President Fidel V. Ramos signed it on 22 October 1997 officially making it Republic Act No. 8371 Indigenous People's Rights Act of 1997 which aims to \"Recognize, Protect and Promote the Rights of Indigenous cultural Communities/Indigenous Peoples (ICCs/IPS) and for other Purposes.\"\n\n\"The Philippines is a culturally diverse country with an estimated 14- 17 million Indigenous Peoples (IPs) belonging to 110\nethno-linguistic groups. They are mainly concentrated in Northern Luzon (Cordillera Administrative Region, 33%) and Mindanao (61%), with some groups in the Visayas area (as of 2013).\" term indigenous people as used to reflect the contemporary international language which was formally adopted in 1993.\n\nAs of 1998, this is the list of the identified Indigenous People in the Philippines and their location.\n\nThe term indigenous cultural communities (ICCs) was used in the Philippine Constitution to describe a group of people sharing common bonds of language, customs, traditions and other distinctive cultural traits, and who have, under claims of ownership since time immemorial, occupied, possessed and utilized a territory. Time immemorial refers to a period of time when as far back as memory can go, certain ICCs/IPs are known to have occupied, possessed and utilized a defined territory devolved to them by operation of custom law/traditions or inherited from their ancestors.\n\nBoth the terms IPs and ICCs refer to homogenous societies identified by self-ascription and ascription by others, who have continuously lived as a community on communally bounded and defined territory, sharing common bonds of customs, traditions and other cultural traits, through resistance to political, social and cultural inroads to colonization, non-indigenous religions and culture. Whereas, the Filipino majority learned very well the ways of the colonial masters by adapting to their laws and practices, the minority (IPs), consciously asserted the integrity of their ancestral territories, pre-Hispanic native culture and justice systems which are viewed as diametrically opposed to the majority's world view, but which the IPRA law attempts to recognize and interface with the national legal system.\n\nAncestral Domains\n\nThe 1997 IPRA Law defines ancestral domains as \"areas generally belonging to ICCs/IPs comprising lands, inland waters, coastal areas, and natural resources held under a claim of ownership, occupied or possessed by ICCs/IPs, by themselves or through their ancestors, communally or individually since time immemorial, continuously to the present even when interrupted by war, force majeure or displacement by force, deceit, stealth or as a consequence of government projects or any other voluntary dealings entered into by government and private individuals or corporations, and which are necessary to ensure their economic, social and cultural welfare. It shall include forests, pastures, residential, agricultural and other lands individually owned whether alienable and disposable otherwise, hunting grounds, burial rounds, worship areas, bodies of water, mineral and other natural resources and lands which may no longer be exclusively occupied by ICCs/IPs but from which they traditionally had access to for their subsistence and traditional activities, particularly the home ranges of ICCs and IPs who are still nomadic and or shifting cultivators.\"\n\nAncestral domains include the spiritual and cultural bonds to the areas which the ICCs/IPs possess, occupy and use and to which they have claims of ownership (inherited from ancestors). This generally refer to areas which they have possessed at a period of time when as far back as memory can go. Proofs of time immemorial possession main may include testimony of elders, historical accounts, anthropological or ethnographic studies, names of places, using dialect or language of indigenous peoples, genealogy, treaties or pacts, between or among indigenous peoples and or other populations.\n\nAncestral lands, as stated in the law, refer to \"lands occupied, possessed and utilized by individuals, families and clans who are members of the ICCs/IPs since time immemorial, by themselves or through their predecessors-in-interest, under claims of individual or traditional group ownership, continuously, to the present even when interrupted by war, force majeure or displacement by force, deceit, stealth or as a consequence of government projects, and other voluntary dealings entered into by government and private individuals/corporations, including, but not limited to residential lots, rice terraces or paddies, private forests, swidden farms and tree lots.\"\n\nAncestral land owners are given the right to transfer these ancestral lands and the right to redeem ancestral lands lost through vitiated consent. This is different with ancestral domains in a sense that this specifically refers to the land while the domain may include land, water, and aerial territories.\n\nSECTION 13. Self-Governance. — The State recognizes the inherent right of ICCs/IPs to self-governance and self-determination and respects the integrity of their values, practices and institutions. Consequently, the State shall guarantee the right of ICCs/IPs to freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development.\n\nSECTION 14. Support for Autonomous Regions. — The State shall continue to strengthen and support the autonomous regions created under the Constitution as they may require or need. The State shall likewise encourage other ICCs/IPs not included or outside Muslim Mindanao and the Cordilleras to use the form and content of their ways of life as may be compatible with the fundamental rights defined in the Constitution of the Republic of the Philippines and other internationally recognized human rights.\n\nSECTION 15. Justice System, Conflict Resolution Institutions, and Peace Building Processes. — The ICCs/IPs shall have the right to use their own commonly accepted justice systems, conflict resolution institutions, peace building processes or mechanisms and other customary laws and practices within their respective communities and as may be compatible with the national legal system and with internationally recognized human rights.\n\nSECTION 16. Right to Participate in Decision-Making. — ICCs/IPs have the right to participate fully, if they so choose, at all levels of decision-making in matters which may affect their rights, lives and destinies through procedures determined by them as well as to maintain and develop their own indigenous political structures. Consequently, the State shall ensure that the ICCs/IPs shall be given mandatory representation in policy-making bodies and other local legislative councils.\n\nSECTION 17. Right to Determine and Decide Priorities for Development. — The ICCs/IPs shall have the right to determine and decide their own priorities for development affecting their lives, beliefs, institutions, spiritual well-being, and the lands they own, occupy or use. They shall participate in the formulation, implementation and evaluation of policies, plans and programs for national, regional and local development which may directly affect them.\n\nSECTION 18. Tribal Barangays. — The ICCs/IPs living in contiguous areas or communities where they form the predominant population but which are located in municipalities, provinces or cities where they do not constitute the majority of the population, may form or constitute a separate barangay in accordance with the Local Government Code on the creation of tribal barangays.\n\nSECTION 19. Role of Peoples Organizations. — The State shall recognize and respect the role of independent ICCs/IPs organizations to enable the ICCs/IPs to pursue and protect their legitimate and collective interests and aspirations through peaceful and lawful means.\n\nSECTION 20. Means for Development/Empowerment of ICCs/IPs. — The Government shall establish the means for the full development/empowerment of the ICCs/IPs own institutions and initiatives and, where necessary, provide the resources needed therefore.\n\nChapter III, section 7 of the Republic Act No. 8371 of 1997 covers the 8 Rights to Ancestral Domain. This chapter focuses on the identification and protection of the entitlement of the Indigenous Cultural Communities (ICC), and the Indigenous Peoples (IPs) as the proper owners of their ancestral land. The following rights are listed below:\n\nThis was implemented in order to stop the historical injustices experienced by the IPs. Despite the implementation of the law since the year 1997, the IPs of the Philippines still persistently experience injustices. The IPs are struggling fighting for their rights because they feel like the government has continued to neglect them.\n\nThe main criticism concerning R.A. 8371 is that it is ambiguous. One of the issues it encountered was that it is inconsistent and conflicting with the Philippines’ constitution (2).\n\nThis has become the case because of the doctrine of \"jura regalia\", which means that \"all lands of the public domain belong to the state\" (2). The next problem encountered was that the ancestral domain rights’ legal characterisation as \"private but communal\" differentiated from the Philippines’ civil law's idea of co-ownership of real property. This meant that areas in ancestral domains is shared by the members of the community, but that does not mean that they are considered as co-owners of the said property according to the New Civil Code (2).\n\nSection 57 of chapter VIII of the Republic Act No. 8371 of 1997 which states that:Natural resources within Ancestral Domains - The ICCs/IPs shall have priority rights in the harvesting, extraction, development or exploitation of any natural resources within the ancestral domain. A non-member of ICCs/IPs concerned may be allowed to take part in the development and utilization of the natural resources for a period of not exceeding twenty-five (25) years: provided, that a formal and written agreement is entered into with the ICCs/IPs concerned or that the community, pursuant to its own decision making process, has agreed to allow such operation: provided, finally, that the NCIP may exercise visitorial powers and take appropriate action to safeguard the rights of ICCs/IPs under the same contract (1).is also viewed as problematic (2) because being given\n\nthe right to be prioritised in terms of development, exploitation, extraction, or harvesting of natural resources belonging in ancestral domains does not necessarily mean that an IP member is given the right of ownership of the said\nnatural resources (3). Section 57 does not really reject the jura regalia, also known as the Regalian Doctrine or the Doctrine of Discipline expressed in the 1935, 1973, and 1987 Philippine Constitutions (4). According to the constitutions mentioned, the Regalian Doctrine expresses that \"all lands of the public domain, as well as all natural resources enumerated therein, whether private or public land, belong to the State.\" (4). Most argue that the IPRA is flawed because it violates this (4). Instead of protecting the rights of the IPs, Section 57 strengthens argument that all natural resources found in ancestral domains belong to the State (3).\n\nThis chapter in the IPRA was written to recognize the indigenous people’ right to the same privileges and protections also afforded by the State to its citizens. The law reemphasizes that all ICC/IPs are legally entitled to fundamental universal human rights and that the State should actively create an inclusive environment with this in mind.\n\nAmong these rights include;\n\nPatterned after international standards set by the Charter of the United Nations, Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the equal protection clause in the Philippine 1987 Constitution, this section places the State as duly responsible for the execution of the IPs’ human rights. The State is then called to acknowledge the ICCs/IPs position as a vulnerable group that have been historically excluded from socio-economic opportunities and to guarantee that the IPs enjoy equal protection by the law.\n\nAs signatory to the Geneva Conventions, the State is expected to respect and to ensure respect for the Conventions in all circumstances including local and international armed conflict. The State through the NCIP is empowered to ensure all civliians including IPs'/ICCs' safety in circumstances of emergency and conflict.\n\nThis being said, areas under Ancestral Domains and members of indigenous tribes require special regulation beyond that of the Convention as legally recognized IPs/ICCs are given the freedom to govern their territories by their own laws. Through the IPRA, the State must not;\n\na) Recruit children of the ICCs/IPs into the armed forces under any circumstance;\n\nb) Conscript or recruit ICC/IP individuals against their will to the armed forces, and in particular for use against other indigenous peoples;\n\nc) Relocate ICC/IP communities to special centers for military purposes;\n\nd) Force ICC/IP communities, families or individuals to abandon their lands, territories, or means of subsistence; and\n\ne) Require indigenous individuals to work for military purposes under discriminatory conditions.\n\nThese provisions protects IP autonomy as well as requires the State to work alongside tribes through an integrated emergency program which includes relief and rehabilitation efforts for IP victims of armed violence. Special emphasis is placed the impact of armed conflict of indigenous children' mental well being and development in high risk conflict areas.\n\nThe law guarantees indigenous peoples’ right to basic social services as provided by the State. As a vulnerable group, special attention is given for the \"immediate, effective and continuing improvement of their economic and social conditions.\"\n\nExamples of services that fit this provision include social security through the Republic of the Philippines Social Services System, housing, vocational training and employment support through various efforts of the Department of Social Welfare and Development as well as complete health coverage through the PhilHealth \"No Balance Billing\" from government hospitals.\n\nThe law also emphasizes that these rights are also to be afforded to indigenous women and children. The provisions should not result in \"the diminution of rights and privileges already recognized and afforded to these groups under existing laws of general application.\" The government through NCIP must provide support to organizations which are geared towards empowering women and the youth to involve themselves in community/nation building.\n\nIn accordance to the customary laws of each tribe, the government must provide mechanisms that facilitate deeper understanding of indigenous culture for women and youth while their human dignity. The law ensures the full realization of women's and youth rights but requires all mechanisms and programs to be culturally sensitive and relevant to the ICCs/IPs needs.\n\nAn example of the programs geared towards the execution of this particular provision in the IPRA is the culturally sensitive day-care program for both IP children and their mothers which NCIP mentions in its first administrative order.\n\nAttempts to implement these rights regarding cultural integrity are most recently captured by the celebration of National Indigenous People's Month on October to November 2014. This was said to be the biggest gathering of Philippine indigenous peoples by far. Headed by the chairman of the National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA), Felipe M. De Leon, Jr., showcased were the traditional cuisines, rituals, musical performances and other elements of culture. This gave way for indigenous peoples to interact and learn from one another's culture. It was held in three different venues, from Oct. 22 to 23 at the Baguio Convention Center in Baguio City in Luzon in expected attendees were from groups: Gaddang, Isinay, Tinggian, Itneg, Ibanag, Yogad, Itawit, Malaweg, Kasiguran, Ivatan, Itbayat, Bugkalot, Isnag, Kalinga, Ifugao, Ibaloy, Kankanaey, Balangao, Bontok, Applai, Ilocano, Bolinao, Pangasinan, Tagalog, Sambal, Pampangan, Ayta, Agta, Mangyan, Palawani, Molbog, Jama Mapun, Tagbanua, Pala’wan, Agutaynen, Bicolano, Batak and Cuyunon; from Nov. 6 to 7 in Zamboanga City in Mindanao aimed to highlight the groups: Yakan, Subanen, Manobo, Higaonon, Bagobo, Mandaya, Mansaka, B’laan, Sangir, Ata Manobo, T’boli, Teduray, Arumanen, Mamanwa, Maranao, Magindanao, Iranun and Tausug and from Nov. 10 to 11 in Bacolod City, Negros Occidental in Visayas for the groups: Ati, Panay Bukidnon, Waray, Abaknon, Hiligaynon and Cebuano. It was organized by the Subcommission of Cultural Communities and Traditional Arts, a subcommission of the NCCA, along with the local governments, government agencies, nongovernmental organizations and private companies with the theme of \"Katutubong Filipino para sa Kalikasan at Kapayapaan\" [\"Native Filipinos for Nature and Peace\"].\n\nThe United Nations acknowledges worldwide the rights of the indigenous people. The article on the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples is recognized in the international sphere and was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly during its 61st session at UN Headquarters in New York City on 13 September 2007.\n\nThe Declaration is structured as a United Nations resolution, \"with 23 preambular clauses and 46 articles concerning the collective and individual rights of the indigenous peoples in different parts of the world including protection of their cultural heritage and manifestations of their cultures including human and genetic resources.\"\n\nThe Philippines did not immediately support the draft. It abstained when the first votes were called, despite the existence of the Indigenous People's Rights Act of 1997. The Department of Justice and the Office of the Solicitor General expressed their opposition to the adoption, as they still had to study whether this was consistent with the Philippine Constitution. Furthermore, the National Commission on Indigenous Peoples, which was the representative organization of the Philippine IPs did not endorse it at first. However, after reviewing the declaration for many times, the Philippines supported and voted a yes.\n\nIn the end, the final result of the votes for the passing of the charter resulted to 143 yes votes, 4 no votes (Australia, Canada, New Zealand and U.S.) and 11 abstentions.\n\nOn October 2008, the Lumads (an indigenous group) organized a conference in Naga, Zamboanga Sibugay involving several indigenous people groups. In this summit, the indigenous people groups questioned the utility of IPRA in protecting their rights described in the IPRA. In this summit, the indigenous people groups discussed the instances the Philippine Law hindered their rights promised by IPRA. Primarily, the inconsistencies lie in how the Philippine Law prohibited them from following their customs and traditions that is centered around the indigenous people's governance of their land.\n\nFor instance, they complained that the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) prohibits some of the IP farmers to hunt animals, and to cultivate lands ( i.e. the 53,262-hectare part of Mt. Malindang )covered by National Integrated Protected Areas (NIPA) program; thereby, cutting off their primary source of income and food for their family. In worst-case scenarios, the state outrightly utilizes its right of state to dispose public lands for activities such as mining, logging and installation of dams that infringe upon the IP's ancestral domains. And because of these instances of usurpation of ancestral domain to the IP such as wide coverage of the NIPA to the IP's ancestral domain and economic activities that require the state to exercise their right to dispose public lands, the IP's basic sources of income and food for their families are greatly affected.\n\nThe limitations and prohibitions extends not only to their basic needs but also prevents them from performing important rituals in their lives. This includes wedding ceremonies that are normally held without cost but costs around 50 to 500 pesos when NCIP officials conduct it that is burdensome to IPs who lack sources of funds.\n\nHere are some of the organisations that support IRPA law and their functions:\n\nSection 56 of the Indigenous People’s Rights Act of 1997 or the IPRA Law states that \"“property rights within the ancestral domains already existing and/or vested upon effectivity of this Act, shall be recognized and respected.”\" This section is problematic as it means that any title before 1997 holds more weight than an ancestral claim. Scholars and pro-indigenous groups have criticized this section as it effectively destroys any ancestral land claim before 1997. Historians have pointed out that most indigenous groups in the Philippines have been in the archipelago prior to Spanish occupation in the 15th century. However, according to Section 56, since there is no proper documentation committed by the indigenous people prior to 1997, an indigenous group cannot claim any land that have been in non-inidgenous possession prior to 1997. This makes multi-national companies and local government units have the power to resist ancestral claims and use the IPRA Law itself to counter indigenous land claims, as testified in an ongoing Mangyan case since 2011, which evicted indigenous Mangyans from a claimed land they have been using for many years. In 2015, it was announced that the indigenous land shall be made into a sanitary landfill by the Puerto Galero local government unit, and that the Mangyans shall be relocated into a site near the landfill. All Mangyan-planted coconut trees on the landfill site shall be chopped down by the government and the local government unit shall compensate only 100 pesos (approximately 2 US dollars) each to the Mangyans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "394992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394992", "title": "Interim leader (Canada)", "text": "Interim leader (Canada)\n\nAn interim leader, in Canadian politics, is a party leader appointed by the party's legislative caucus or the party's executive to temporarily act as leader when a gap occurs between the resignation or death of a party leader and the election of their formal successor. Usually a party leader retains the leadership until a successor is formally chosen — however, in some situations this is not possible, and an interim leader is thus appointed by the party's caucus or the party executive. An interim leader may also be appointed while a leader is on a leave of absence due to poor health or some other reason, and then relinquish the position upon the leader's return.\n\nAn interim leader has all the rights and responsibilities of an elected party leader, with the exception that the person does not have the discretion to choose the timing of their departure — an interim leader serves only until the party organizes and holds a leadership convention. By virtue of lacking a mandate from the party membership, however, an interim leader is not generally seen as possessing the authority to truly put his or her own ideological and organizational stamp on the party, and is thus effectively limited to a caretaker role in most cases.\n\nThere have been a number of instances where instead of a competitive leadership race between multiple candidates, the leadership convention directly ratified the interim leader as the party's new permanent leader, but a convention must still take place in some form.\n\nBy convention, if a competitive leadership race between sitting members of the party's caucus is taking place, the interim leader should be a caucus member who is \"not\" standing as a candidate in the leadership race, so they do not gain unfair advantage in the contest. Generally, an interim leader may also be a candidate for the permanent leadership only if he or she has no other caucus colleagues competing for the leadership; with rare exceptions, this generally occurs only in special circumstances, such as a minor party whose interim leader is also its only caucus member in the legislature.\n\nAn interim leader may, if necessary, lead the party into an election, but by Canadian custom, an election is usually not called while one of the parties is in a leadership race.\n\nAn interim leader may also assume political roles that would be held by a permanent leader of their party. For instance, if a prime minister or a provincial premier dies in office or resigns suddenly, the interim leader chosen to succeed them also becomes interim prime minister or premier.\n\nIn most circumstances, a leader who has decided to step down gives extended notice, and a leadership convention is organized to choose their successor. The outgoing leader remains in the position for the duration of the leadership campaign, and then hands over power to the successor shortly after the convention.\n\nHowever, sudden vacancies may occur for a variety of reasons.\n\nWilfrid Laurier died in 1919, while holding the leadership of the Liberal Party. Daniel Duncan McKenzie was selected as the party's interim leader, serving until Mackenzie King was selected as the party's leader later in the year.\n\nJack Layton initially took a leave of absence from the leadership of the New Democratic Party in 2011 for cancer treatment, and Nycole Turmel was named the interim leader of the party; Layton died before his intended date of return to office, and Turmel continued as interim leader pending the results of the 2012 leadership election.\n\nGlen Clark was forced to resign the leadership of the British Columbia New Democratic Party, and the premiership, after a criminal investigation against him was announced. He was succeeded by Dan Miller, who served until Ujjal Dosanjh won the resulting leadership convention.\n\nIn 2000, after the Reform Party was folded into the new Canadian Alliance, Deborah Grey served as the party's interim leader until the party's first leadership convention selected Stockwell Day. Similarly, after the Canadian Alliance and the Progressive Conservatives merged in 2003, Senator John Lynch-Staunton was named interim leader of the new Conservative Party until the first leadership convention selected Stephen Harper.\n\nIn 1983, Joe Clark received only 66.9 per cent support in an internal leadership review process conducted by the Progressive Conservative Party. Feeling that he did not have sufficiently strong support within the party, he thus scheduled a leadership convention. Initially, he remained the party's leader in the meantime — however, as he was also standing as a candidate in the leadership process, he eventually stepped down and Erik Nielsen was installed as the party's interim leader.\n\nIn early 2002, Stockwell Day's leadership of the Canadian Alliance came under criticism due to party infighting. Like Clark, he thus announced a new leadership campaign in which he would reoffer as a candidate, and John Reynolds became the party's interim leader.\n\nIn several cases, a party's leader has been defeated in his or her own riding in an election, and has resigned soon afterward. A resignation is not necessarily required in such a scenario, as other leaders in the same situation have retained the leadership until they were able to run in a by-election. However, for personal or political reasons some leaders have opted to immediately resign the leadership instead.\n\nAndy Brandt became interim leader of the Ontario Progressive Conservative Party following the party's defeat in the 1987 provincial election, in which leader Larry Grossman lost his own seat. He served until 1990, when he was succeeded by Mike Harris following a leadership convention.\n\nJean Charest became interim leader of the federal Progressive Conservatives following the party's defeat in the 1993 election, in which Kim Campbell lost her own seat. At the next leadership convention in 1995, Charest was acclaimed to the full leadership of the party. Additionally, having subsequently become leader of the Quebec Liberal Party, Charest resigned as leader following the party's defeat in the 2012 provincial election, in which he lost his seat. As a result, Jean-Marc Fournier was named interim leader.\n\nJoy MacPhail served as interim leader of the New Democratic Party of British Columbia from 2001 to 2003, following the party's defeat in the 2001 provincial election, in which Ujjal Dosanjh lost his seat. She served until Carole James was selected as the party's new leader in 2003.\n\nJohn Tory was defeated in the 2007 Ontario election, in which he ran in a different seat than the one where he was an incumbent. He stayed on as leader, despite facing some internal criticism — notably, a leadership review in 2008 gave him just 66.9 per cent support, the very same result which Joe Clark had deemed \"not\" sufficient to justify staying on as leader of the federal Progressive Conservatives in 1983. Bob Runciman served as interim parliamentary leader, but Tory retained the actual leadership of the party. Tory eventually resigned in 2009, after losing a by-election in Haliburton—Kawartha Lakes—Brock, and Runciman became the party's interim leader.\n\nBob Rae was named interim leader of the Liberal Party following the 2011 election, in which his party's previous leader, Michael Ignatieff, was defeated in his own riding.\n\nIn one case, Ontario Liberal Party interim leader W.E.N. Sinclair led his party through two consecutive elections in 1926 and 1929. He was interim leader from 1923 to 1930 since, due to the party's state of disorganization, there was no leadership convention held in that period to choose a successor to Wellington Hay. When a convention was finally held, Sinclair drew little support and withdrew before balloting began. He was succeeded by future Premier Mitchell Hepburn.\n\nSometimes an outgoing leader decides to resign immediately in order to ensure party unity, because they have accepted an appointment or chosen to stand as a candidate for (or been elected to) another position.\n\nFollowing the resignation of Daniel Johnson as leader of the Quebec Liberal Party in 1998, the prospect of Jean Charest becoming the party's new leader began to attract widespread public support. When Charest subsequently decided to stand as a candidate, he resigned as leader of the federal Progressive Conservatives, and Elsie Wayne became the party's interim leader.\n\nSimilarly, Thomas Kennedy served as interim leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario from 1948 to 1949, after George Drew resigned to contest the leadership of the federal Progressive Conservatives.\n\nAn interim leader, Nycole Turmel was appointed to lead the NDP on July 28, 2011, while Jack Layton was on a medical leave of absence to fight cancer. She continued in the position following Layton's death on August 22, 2011.\n\nFrom November 1954 to February 1955 William Earl Rowe acted as interim Leader of the Opposition when Progressive Conservative leader George A. Drew was in poor health following an attack of meningitis. Drew returned but later fell ill again, and Rowe again became as interim leader of the opposition in August 1956. Drew resigned in September and Rowe remained interim opposition leader until December when John George Diefenbaker was elected party leader.\n\nFollowing the 2008–2009 Canadian parliamentary dispute, Stéphane Dion's continued leadership of the federal Liberals was felt to be an impediment to the party's popular support, but with a situation where the party had to be almost immediately prepared to either take over the government or face an election, many party members felt that the party did not have the time to go through a conventional leadership race. After some internal debate, leadership candidates Dominic LeBlanc and Bob Rae withdrew from the race, and the only remaining candidate, Michael Ignatieff, was immediately named interim leader. His leadership was formally ratified at a party convention in May 2009.\n\nPam Barrett resigned the leadership of the Alberta New Democrats in 2000, but for health reasons she opted not to retain the leadership until her successor could be chosen, instead announcing that her resignation was effective immediately. Raj Pannu was named interim leader, and was then acclaimed leader at the subsequent convention. Brian Mason, who succeeded Pannu to the leadership in 2004, also took the position of interim leader before securing the full leadership at convention.\n\nDanny Williams resigned the leadership of the Progressive Conservative Party of Newfoundland and Labrador, similarly choosing to step down immediately rather than serving until a leadership convention, and Deputy Premier Kathy Dunderdale was elevated to the interim leadership of the party and to the premiership.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn certain circumstances, a party may also have an interim parliamentary leader who is \"not\" officially the party's leader, particularly when the party leader is not a sitting member of the legislature. Herb Gray served as parliamentary leader of the Liberals following the selection of Jean Chrétien as leader in 1989, until Chrétien could run in a by-election to enter the House of Commons. Similarly, Bob Runciman served as parliamentary leader of the Ontario Progressive Conservative Party following the 2007 election, in which party leader John Tory lost his seat in the legislature. He became the party's full interim leader in 2009 after Tory was defeated in an attempt to re-enter the Legislative Assembly in a by-election.\n\nBill Graham served as interim parliamentary leader of the Liberals in early 2006, while outgoing party leader Paul Martin was still sitting as an MP and retained the formal leadership of the party. After this situation created some media confusion over which man would lead the party into an election if one were to occur, Martin stepped down as party leader in March, and Graham assumed the full interim leadership until Stéphane Dion was selected as leader in December.\n\nLouis Plamondon became interim parliamentary leader of the Bloc Québécois on June 2, 2011, at the beginning of the first session of the 41st Canadian Parliament, following the 2011 federal election and the defeat and resignation of BQ leader Gilles Duceppe, while Vivian Barbot succeeded Duceppe as interim president of the BQ.\n\nMajor James Coldwell became parliamentary leader of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation in October 1940, following the stroke and incapacitation of party leader J. S. Woodsworth, who retained the title of \"honorary president\" (leader). Coldwell was officially elected leader in July 1942, several months following Woodsworth's death.\n"}
{"id": "58759153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58759153", "title": "Kappeyne van de Coppello cabinet", "text": "Kappeyne van de Coppello cabinet\n\nThe Kappeyne van de Coppello cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 3 November 1877 until 20 August 1879. The cabinet was formed by Independent Liberals after the election of 1877. The centre-right cabinet was a minority government in the House of Representatives. Independent Classical Liberal Jan Kappeyne van de Coppello was Prime Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25830102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25830102", "title": "Labor and Agrarian Party", "text": "Labor and Agrarian Party\n\nLabor and Agrarian Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Laborista Agrario\", PALA) was a Panamanian right-of-center political party, founded in 1960.\n\nThe PALA supported the Marco Aurelio Robles administration in 1964-1968. In 1968 it allied with the People's Alliance (ADP) and its candidate David Samudio Ávila.\n\nThe PALA survived the period of suspension under Omar Torrijos (1969–1979) and re-registered on 2 May 1979.\n“\"Azael Vargas (former Minister of Agriculture, Commerce and Industry), who claimed that the Labor and Agrarian Party had been hijacked, split with it to found the Authentic Labor and Agrarian Party. He then joined with industrialist Carlos Eleta Almaran, scion of one of the \"20 families', to found the National Renovation Movement (MNR), which in 1982 changed its name to the Conservative Party. An attempt to join forces with the Republican Party (PR) to form the Conservative Republican Party was frustrated by the Electoral Tribunal, and Vargas and Eleta then went on to form PALA. The party mounted an expensive publicity drive and was accused of fraudulently boosting its membership figures\"”.\nThe Electoral Tribunal registered the PALA with 35000 members. Arnulfo Arias Madrid accuse PALA of fraud in obtaining their membership.\n“\"Despite its name, and its use of the spade as its symbol, it is extremely conservative and hostile to organized labour. With backers among Panama's wealthy elite, PALA initially supported the presidential aspirations of National Guard chief Gen. Rubén Darío Paredes in 1984.\"”\nThe PALA eventually dropped him as a candidate and hacked the National Democratic Union (UNADE) and its candidate Nicolás Ardito Barletta in the 1984 election.\nPALA became the second most important force within UNADE, but was weakened in 1987 by a power struggle in which Carlos Eleta Almaran was ousted as party president, apparently as part of a move by the defense forces to take greater control over the party.\nHe was succeeded as party leader by Ramon Sieiro Murgas (General Manuel Noriega's brother-in-law).\nIn 1989 it allied with the National Liberation Coalition (COLINA) and its candidate Carlos Duque, PALA was expected to be allocated 1 seat in the post-US invasion legislature in 1989.\nIt joined the United People Alliance (APU) coalition behind official candidate Ernesto Pérez Balladares in the Panamanian general election, 1994.\n\nThe PALA was abolished by the Electoral Tribunal on 15 September 1994.\n"}
{"id": "544611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544611", "title": "League Against Cruel Sports", "text": "League Against Cruel Sports\n\nThe League Against Cruel Sports is an animal welfare charity that campaigns against sports such as bullfighting, fox hunting and hare coursing. It also campaigns to ban the manufacture, sale and use of snares, and for an end to greyhound racing, commercial game shooting and trophy hunting. Famous supporters include comedian Ricky Gervais, Jo Brand, John Bishop, Sir David Jason, and Gemma Atkinson.\n\nThe current president is naturalist Bill Oddie OBE. League Vice Presidents include: actor Annette Crosbie OBE, The Rt Hon Baroness Smith of Basildon, and actor Peter Egan.\n\nIn 1924, the league issued the following charter entitled \"What We Stand For\":\nWe respectfully invite Religious, Education, Social Welfare, Humanitarian and any other allied bodies willing to participate, by passing resolutions towards this end, to co-operate with us to make our demand effective.\n\nDespite the passing of the Hunting Act in 2004, there is still a very strong pro-hunt lobby which seeks to have the Hunting Act repealed. The league campaigns to ensure that the Hunting Act is preserved. The league’s ‘Keep Cruelty History’ campaign was launched in September 2009 and focused on highlighting the position on the finding of local candidates at the following year's general election.\nThe league runs a Wildlife Crimewatch service through which members of the public can report any suspicious activity which may be in breach of the Hunting Act or any other wildlife legislation. Members of the public call the Wildlife Crimewatch line several times a day to report suspicious behaviour. This information is logged and passed on to police where appropriate. The league also coordinates a network of volunteers who monitor and record the activities of hunts.\n\nSnares are thin wire hitches used to catch and choke the animal. The snares are set to trap any animal perceived to be a pest or threat. The design of a snare means that it may strangle its victim and can lead to extreme pain and suffering, or cause the animal to die instantly. Commonly used by gamekeepers to catch foxes, rabbits and stoats, many protected mammals such as badgers and otters plus livestock and even domestic pets are either caught, seriously injured or killed in snares. Despite being banned in most countries across Europe, snaring is still legal in the United Kingdom. The League Against Cruel Sports believes that snaring is cruel, indiscriminate, and wholly unnecessary and calls for an end to the manufacture, sale and use of snares in the UK.\n\nDespite being made illegal in Britain in 1835, dog fighting has been gaining ground in some communities in the UK. Dogs are trained to be violent by being starved and beaten. Those that seem too weak or fail to show enough aggression are killed. If a dog they use for fighting does not die from their wounds, losing dogs may be electrocuted, drowned, or hanged. The league campaigns to raise awareness of the prevalence of dog fighting in the UK. In April 2010, the league launched a new telephone line through which members of the public can report suspicious incidents that they think might be related to fighting dogs.\n\nMillions of game birds are shot every year. Over 35 million pheasants and 6.5 million partridges are reared for shooting in the UK each year. These birds are often reared in battery cages, according to the league’s website. The league's website also states \"the misery doesn't end there - all kinds of wildlife suffer at the hands of the shoot, in the name of predator control\". The league campaigns for the shooting industry to be brought within the scope of the animal Welfare Act. It also conducts investigations to highlight what it alleges is cruelty within the industry and highlights concerns about teaching children to kill for sport and recreation.\n\nThe League Against Cruel Sports seeks a complete end to bullfighting anywhere in the world and lobbies regional and local governments to put an end to bullfighting internationally. The league discourages big businesses from associating with or sponsoring bullfighting and generally raises awareness of the cruelty and suffering involved in bullfighting. The league also promotes the Worldwide Anti-Bullfighting Pledge, in which signatories pledge never to visit a bullfight anywhere in the world.\n\nThe League is now opposed to greyhound racing as it believes there is a much darker side to this sport, and attempts to regulate it to minimise cruelty have failed. Thousands of greyhounds go missing every year, many put down, others dispatched with a bullet to the head or a brick around the neck. The league has campaigned for a number of changes such as; independent regulation of the greyhound racing industry; the set-up of one single regulatory authority tasked with establishing and enforcing welfare rules; and a compulsory levy from bookmakers to fund welfare improvements. Currently the league is calling for a phasing out of greyhound racing.\n\nTrophy hunting is the stalking and killing of wild animals for sport. The league says this multimillion-pound international industry is causing an irreversible decline in some of the world's most threatened species and campaigns to see it abolished. The league focuses on exposing British travel companies who promote trophy hunting. The league has also conducted numerous investigations into trophy hunting around the world.\n\nIn 1999 the league appointed Douglas Batchelor as chief executive, with a mandate to modernize the organisation and achieve the long sought after legislation on hunting and coursing for sport. \nDouglas Bachelor's background was in farms and estate management, business consultancy and IT systems and services for agriculture. The League Committee decision to bring in rural issue and countryside management experience to the campaign proved crucial in the run up to the eventual passage of legislation on hunting and coursing in Scotland and in England and wales.\n\nThe league worked with the SSPCA (the Scottish Society for the Protection of animals) in Scotland together with IFAW, (the International Fund for Animal welfare) on assisting MSPs to bring forward a Private Members Bill banning hunting and Coursing in Scotland for sport. The bill became an Act in 2002.\n\nThe league worked with the RSPCA (the Royal Society for the Protection of Animals) and with IFAW in England and Wales to help secure the passage of the Hunting Act through Parliament in 2004. The campaign was contested throughout by the Countryside Alliance and the Middle way Group who challenged it at every opportunity in Parliament, in the House of Lords and in Court, losing on each occasion.\n\n\nThe league began buying land in 1959 to provide a safe haven for hunted animals. Concentrated around Exmoor and the Quantock Hills in the West Country, the league at one time owned around 40 wildlife reserves, the first of which it set up at Baronsdown, near Dulverton. In 2002, they faced accusations by hunt supporters and the British Deer Society of poor practice in wildlife management. A league spokesman said: \"With its close links to field sports organizations, it comes as no surprise to the League that the BDS has chosen at the behest of its members to attack an organization that does not support their principle of management by killing.\" In 2005 the league conceded that some of the Baronsdown deer were infected with bovine tuberculosis and agreed to stop feeding the deer herd in winter to decrease overall numbers.\n\nThe league supported the Protection of Wild Mammals (Scotland) Act, passed in 2002 by the Scottish Parliament, and the Hunting Act 2004. Both laws make it illegal to chase a mammal with more than two dogs, but allow the use of two dogs (England) or a pack of dogs (Scotland) to flush an animal out of its lair to be shot. Both laws allow the use of one terrier at a time below ground to flush a fox to be shot, if the owner of the terrier has written permission from the land owner or occupier to reduce fox populations in order to prevent or reducing serious damage to game birds or wild birds being kept on the land. The Hunting Act requires that the terrier is fitted with an electronic locator collar.\n\nThe league is currently campaigning against commercial breeding of non-native game birds for shooting, and against hunts that it believes are continuing to hunt wild mammals contrary to the 2004 ban.\n\nIt also campaigns to extend hunting legislation from Scotland, England and Wales to Northern Ireland. Between 2006 and 2008, it successfully undertook private prosecutions against four hunt officials under the Hunting Act, because the police would not take action, and argued that this showed that the Hunting Act was clear in its meaning. The first prosecution led to a conviction, but this was overturned on appeal, and the second conviction was upheld in the Crown Court.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the league's executive director, Richard Course, was fired from the league after he expressed views divergent from the league's mission. He had begun to spend some time with the mounted fox hunts as an outgrowth of his work. After a period of time talking with professional wildlife managers and hunt supporters, he concluded that: \"I find it repugnant that some people will kill another living creature for recreational purposes\" but said that the dogs easily outpace the fox within a minute or two and kill it within a second or two and that how the fox is located is \"totally irrelevant\" to animal welfare considerations. Richard Course has since denied that he supported hunting as a humane method of culling foxes. James Barrington, an ex-hunt saboteur, then assumed Course's position within the league. Barrington later resigned, stating that he concluded that an absolute ban on hunting was not in the best interests of animal welfare; he later joined the Countryside Alliance as an animal welfare consultant. Barrington admits that he did not fully understand hunting and therefore could not fully condemn it.\n\nThe league as a charity is politically neutral. Complaints from opponents attacking the league's neutrality have all been dismissed by the Charity Commission. Several League staff have previously had political links. Former Chief Executive Joe Duckworth is a former trade union leader. Former CEO Douglas Batchelor was at one time a Liberal. Labour member and ex hunt saboteur Chris Williamson is a member of the board of trustees League Against Cruel Sports (2013) Board of Trustees, whilst several other board members are Labour Party members. Lorraine Platt, organizer of 'Conservatives Against Fox Hunting', is a member of the Conservative Party. Vice-Presidents include Labour politicians Robert Evans and Kerry McCarthy. Former President Professor John Cooper QC, once stood as a Labour party candidate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5925168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5925168", "title": "List of monarchies", "text": "List of monarchies\n\nThere are and have been throughout recorded history a great many monarchies in the world. \nTribal kingship and Chiefdoms have been the most widespread form of social organisation from the Neolithic, and the predominance of monarchies has declined only with the rise of Republicanism in the modern era.\n\nA monarchical form of government can be combined with many different kinds of political and economic systems, from absolute monarchy to constitutional monarchy and from a market economy to a planned economy. Some examples for certain forms of monarchy are:\n\n\"Extant monarchies are listed in bold type.\"\n\n\n\nA constitutional monarchy is a form of monarchical government established under a constitutional system which acknowledges an elected or hereditary monarch as head of state.\n\nUnitary constitutional monarchies are unitary states which are governed constitutionally as one single unit, with a single constitutionally created legislature.\n\n\nFederal constitutional monarchies are federal states in which a number of federated entities are unified under a federal government and a single monarch, who acts as ceremonial head of state.\n\n\nAn absolute monarchy is a monarchical form of government where the ruler has the power to rule his or her land or country and its citizens freely, with no laws or legally-organized direct opposition in force.\n\nUnitary absolute monarchies are unitary states which are governed as one single unit by a single hereditary or elected leader. Some had or have a single legislature, which may or may not be constitutionally created.\n\n\n\nA subnational monarchy is a territory governed by a hereditary leader, but which is subordinate to a higher national government, either monarchical or republican in form.\n\n\nA monarch may reign over multiple kingdoms, dominions or realms in various forms of political, dynastic, personal union or association.\n\n"}
{"id": "1841535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841535", "title": "List of papal tiaras in existence", "text": "List of papal tiaras in existence\n\nThe papal tiara is the crown worn by popes of the Catholic Church for centuries, until 1978 when Pope John Paul I declined a coronation, opting instead for an inauguration. The tiara is still used as a symbol of the papacy. It features on the coat of arms of the Holy See and of the Vatican City State, though not on the pope's personal coat of arms since Pope Benedict XVI replaced the tiara on his official coat of arms with a traditional bishop's mitre. A tiara is used to crown a statue of Saint Peter in St. Peter's Basilica every year on his feast day.\n\nPopes commissioned tiaras from jewelers or received them as gifts, with a number remaining in the possession of the Holy See. In 1798, French troops occupied Rome and stole or destroyed all but one of the papal tiaras held by the Holy See. Since then popes have used or received as gifts more than twenty tiaras. Several were never worn by a pope, notably those presented as gifts since the last papal coronation in 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "34968096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34968096", "title": "Lokiriama Peace Accord", "text": "Lokiriama Peace Accord\n\nThe Lokiriama Peace Accord is a peace treaty between the Turkana people of Kenya and the Matheniko of Uganda signed in December 1973 as a commitment by both parties to peacefully co-exist. The accord derives its name from Lokiriama, a remote town in Turkana District, North Western Kenya that is inhabited by the Turkana. A symbolic monument for this accord is situated at Lokiriama on the Kenya – Uganda border. It is believed that elders from both Turkana and Matheniko buried instruments of conflict, honey, milk and traditional brew in a pit over which the monument was constructed.\n\nCelebrations to commemorate the accord and re-affirm the commitment of all parties to upholding its content are held every year. The date for commemorating the accord is not fixed and may sometimes fall in December, earlier or later. In 2011 for example, commemoration was held on International Day of Peace which falls on September 21 every year. In addition to the Turkana and Matheniko, the commemorations bring together the Toposa people and Didinga people of Southern Sudan, other Karamojong people from Uganda and Nyangatom of Ethiopia. Commemorations are also graced with the presence of high-profile political and appointed leaders from all levels, including the central government for both Kenya and Uganda. Local and international civil society organizations also participate in the event often making contributions to meet various associated expenses such as media coverage, transportation of clan members and food for all attendees. The 2011 commemoration was attended by former Kenyan President Daniel Arap Moi, Parliamentary members, Ministers and high-profile civil servants from both Kenya and Uganda.\n"}
{"id": "19592486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19592486", "title": "Lê Văn Khôi revolt", "text": "Lê Văn Khôi revolt\n\nThe Lê Văn Khôi revolt (1833–1835) was an important revolt in 19th century Vietnam, in which southern Vietnamese, Vietnamese Catholics, French Catholic missionaries and Chinese settlers under the leadership of Lê Văn Khôi opposed the Imperial rule of Minh Mạng.\n\nThe revolt was spurred by the prosecutions launched by Minh Mạng against southern factions which had opposed his rule and tended to be favourable to Christianity. In particular, Minh Mạng prosecuted Lê Văn Duyệt, a former faithful general of Emperor Gia Long, who had opposed his enthronement. Since Lê Văn Duyệt had already died in July 1832, his tomb was profaned and inscribed with the words \"This is the place where the infamous Lê Văn Duyệt was punished\".\n\nLê Văn Khôi, the adoptive son of general Lê Văn Duyệt, had also been imprisoned, but managed to escape on 10 May 1833. Soon, numerous people joined the revolt, in the desire to avenge Lê Văn Duyệt and challenge the legitimacy of the Nguyễn dynasty.\n\nLê Văn Khôi declared himself in favour of the restoration of the line of Prince Cảnh, the original heir to Gia Long according to the rule of primogeniture, in the person of his remaining son An-hoa. This choice was designed to obtain the support of Catholic missionaries and Vietnamese Catholics, who had supported the line of Prince Cảnh with Lê Văn Duyệt. Lê Văn Khôi further promised to protect Catholicism.\n\nOn 18 May 1833, the rebels managed to take the Citadel of Saigon (\"Thanh Phien-an\"). Lê Văn Khôi was able to conquer six provinces of Gia Dinh in the span of one month. The main actors of the revolt were Vietnamese Christians and Chinese settlers who had been suffering from the rule of Minh Mạng.\n\nAs Minh Mạng raised an army to quell the rebellion, Lê Văn Khôi fortified himself into the Saigon fortress and asked for the help of the Siamese. Rama III, king of Siam, accepted the offer and sent troops to attack the Vietnamese provinces of Ha-tien and An-giang and Vietnamese imperial forces in Laos and Cambodia. The Siamese troops were accompanied by 2,000 Vietnamese Catholic troops under the command of Father Nguyen Van Tam. These Siamese and Vietnamese forces were repelled in summer 1834 by General Truong Minh Giang. Lê Văn Khôi died in 1834, during the siege, and was succeeded by his 8-year-old son Le Van Cu.\n\nIt took three years for Minh Mạng to quell the rebellion and the Siamese offensive. When the fortress of Phien An was invaded in September 1835, 1,831 people were executed and buried in mass graves (now situated in 3rd District, Saigon). Only six survivors were temporarily spared, among whom were Le Van Cu, but also the French missionary Father Joseph Marchand, of the Paris Foreign Missions Society. Marchand had apparently been supporting the cause of Lê Văn Khôi, and asked for the help of the Siamese army, through communications to his counterpart in Siam, Father Taberd. This revealed the strong Catholic involvement in the revolt. Father Marchand was tortured and executed on 5 November 1835, as was the child Le Van Cu.\n\nThe failure of the revolt had a disastrous effect on the Christian communities of Vietnam. New waves of persecutions against Christians followed, and demands were made to find and execute remaining missionaries. Anti-Catholic edicts to this effect were issued by Minh Mạng in 1836 and 1838. In 1836–1837 six missionaries were executed: Ignacio Delgado, Dominico Henares, Jean-Charles Cornay, José Fernández, François Jaccard, and Bishop Pierre Borie.\n\n"}
{"id": "34967179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34967179", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education (Afghanistan)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education (Afghanistan)\n\nThe Afghan Ministry of Higher Education is the Government ministry that is in charge of regulating, expanding and developing Afghanistan's institutions of higher education. It is responsible for the training of teachers and for establishing a national higher education curriculum as well as special education programmes, in-service training, and promoting further education for university faculty members. It also develops partnerships with international universities, organises seminars and conferences, ensures that residential accommodation is available for students and teachers of universities and provides expertise and training in accounting and management procedures and in computer literacy. On January 2, The National Assembly voted down the candidate minister that President Hamid Karzai had selected, Dr. Obaidullah Obaid. His second candidate, Muhammad Hashim Esmatullahi was voted down on the 16 January. Since then, Dr. Sarwar Danish functioned as acting minister, even when he was formally presented to the National Assembly and rejected on 26 June 2010.\n\nHigher education in Afghanistan\n\n"}
{"id": "3000578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3000578", "title": "National Union of Sahrawi Women", "text": "National Union of Sahrawi Women\n\nThe National Union of Sahrawi Women (Spanish: \"Unión Nacional de Mujeres Saharauis\", UNMS) is the women's wing of the Polisario Front. It was created in 1974, and claims to have 10,000 members, divided between the Sahrawi refugee camps, the \"Liberated territories\", the Moroccan-occupied part of Western Sahara and the \"Sahrawi diaspora\" (including for instance Spain, Mauritania or France).\n\nThe organization is mostly active in the Sahrawi refugee camps in Tindouf, Algeria, where it is a powerful force within the POLISARIO and the Sahrawi republic. It is internationally active in organizing support for Sahrawi women and the Sahrawi cause, but also campaigns for women's rights within the exile community and in political decision-making. As a consequence of this, and of the special circumstances of the Western Sahara war years, the situation of Sahrawi women has improved noticeably. There are presently two women in the Sahrawi republic's government, the Minister of Culture Khadijah Hamdi, and the Minister of Education Mariem Salek Hamada.\n\nThe UNMS is directed by a \"National Committee\" of 66 members, elected in the UNMS congress every 5 years. It is subdivided into several departments:\nThere are also departments for each Wilaya.\nThe national committee is chaired by a Secretary General, elected also in the congresses, who is at the same time member of the Polisario Front national committee.\n\nKeltoum Khayati, a former secretary general of the UNMS, fled to Morocco and is defending the Moroccan position in the conflict. Fatma Mehdi Hassan has been secretary general since 2002.\n\nThe UNMS has been a member of the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDF) and the General Federation of Arab Women since 1977 and of the Pan-African Women's Organization (PAWO) since 1980.\n\nOn the national level, the UNMS objectives are:\n\nOn the international level, the UNMS objectives are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47687058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47687058", "title": "Oslo Symposium", "text": "Oslo Symposium\n\nOslo Symposium is a biennial Norwegian Christian conservative conference, first arranged in 2011. The initiative to the conference was taken by the organisation Kristenfolket in cooperation with ICEJ and Norge Idag, and it has been broadcast live by Visjon Norge. The conference includes speeches by leading Norwegian and international commentators and politicians, including party leaders and government ministers.\n\nThe third conference, in 2015 for the first time had to be arranged with \"massive\" police security, due to a general threat evaluation by the Norwegian Police Security Service, pointing to the Paris and Copenhagen terrorist attacks the two preceding months.\n\n"}
{"id": "58329062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58329062", "title": "Patrol Police Department (Georgia)", "text": "Patrol Police Department (Georgia)\n\nThe Patrol Police Department is the Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia, which represents the state body serving the civil society and ensuring the safety of each citizen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12745385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12745385", "title": "People's Power", "text": "People's Power\n\nPeople's Power (Spanish and Portuguese: Poder Popular) is a common political rallying cry used in party names and slogans.\n\nInstances of its use include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2000129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000129", "title": "Perpetual Peace (disambiguation)", "text": "Perpetual Peace (disambiguation)\n\nPerpetual Peace or Eternal Peace may refer to:\nSpecific treaties:\n\n"}
{"id": "31066443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31066443", "title": "Pondage", "text": "Pondage\n\nPondage usually refers to the comparably small water storage behind the weir of a run-of-the-river hydroelectric power plant. Such a power plant has considerably less storage than the reservoirs of large dams and conventional hydroelectric stations which can store water for long periods such as a dry season or year. With pondage, water is usually stored during periods of low electricity demand and hours when the power plant is inactive, enabling its use as a peaking power plant in dry seasons and a base load power plant during wet seasons. Ample pondage allows a power plant meet hourly load fluctuations for a period of a week or more.\n\nAs a daily hydropeaking cylcle of a hydro power plant with pondage results in fast rising river levels downstream, environmental regulations often restrict the full use of the dispatchability as a peaker. \n\nBecause of the possibility of limited pondage, calculating its effect on power generation is important in determining how often the plant can be operated. The \"pondage factor\" is a rough index of the amount pondage needed when the stream flow is constant and the plant is operational during specific periods. It is calculated by the ratio of total inflow hours per week to the hours the power plant will be operated in that same period. For example, if a river has an inflow for seven days a week and the plant operates for five of those days for eight hours:\n24-hour inflows and plant operation would have a pondage factor of one. \n\nIf power is used for twelve hours per day and during the inactive hours, relatively all inflows can be stored, then power can be doubled during active hours. In 12 hours there are 43,200 seconds and in there are . This gives an estimation and guide that for twelve hours of pondage, there must be as much storage available in the pond as cubic feet per section received.\n"}
{"id": "44256719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44256719", "title": "Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle", "text": "Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle\n\nIn developmental economics, the Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle (also called the Growth-Inequality-Poverty Triangle or GIP Triangle) refers to the idea that a country's change in poverty can be fully determined by its change in income growth and income inequality. According to the model, a development strategy must then also be based on income growth and income inequality. The Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle model was created by François Bourguignon, the former Chief Economist (2003-2007) of the World Bank.\n\nThe Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle was originally introduced by Bourguignon in a paper presented at the Conference on Poverty, Inequality and Growth in Paris on November 13, 2003. A modified version of the paper was presented at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations in New Delhi on February 4, 2004.\n\nEconomists working for international organizations like the World Bank use the Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle to create poverty reduction strategies that include both steps to reduce inequality and stimulate growth. Economists have used the Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle to study poverty in both developing countries and developed countries, including China, Egypt, India, Mexico, and Nigeria. \n\nIn 2013, a study of the 138 countries over the period 2005 to 2010 found that the basic ideas of Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle hold and that both growth and inequality impact absolute poverty as Bourguignon described.\n\nThe Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle can be drawn as a triangle with arrows pointing out of each corner. At the top of the triangle is \"absolute poverty.\" This refers to the percent of the population below the income poverty line. At the bottom left of the triangle is \"inequality\" or \"distribution.\" This refers to differences in income across a population. At the bottom right of the triangle is \"growth.\" This refers to the change in income for a population (for example, a change in GDP).\n\nThe arrows pointing out of \"absolute poverty,\" \"growth,\" and \"inequality\" in the Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle represent cause and effect. In the model, inequality and growth affect each other and both of them affect absolute poverty.\n\nBourguignon defines the change in poverty as a function of growth, distribution, and changes in distribution: Δ poverty ≡ F(growth, distribution, Δ distribution). This equation assumes small changes in poverty. Bourguignon uses per capita income (GDP per capita) as the measure of growth and the Gini Index as the measure of inequality in his model.\n\nThe Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle model differs from previous models of poverty in that it looks at the interactions between growth and inequality, rather than considering the two separately. On the Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle, the bottom points of the triangle are boxed together under the heading of \"development strategy,\" because Bourguignon believed the mix of policies to reduce poverty should depend on that relationship between growth and inequality.\n\nThe Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle model implies that reducing poverty requires a combination of country-wide policies focused on growth and country-wide policies focused on reducing inequality. Development strategies that focus on only one of these miss opportunities to reduce absolute poverty. The model describes that a change in inequality affects absolute poverty in two ways. First, a change in relative poverty affects absolute poverty by immediately changing the number of people below the poverty line. Second, a change in relative poverty changes the growth elasticity of poverty. A redistribution of income means more poverty reduction for a given amount of growth. The consequence of this is that policies that focus only on growth without considering distribution limit poverty reduction in two ways. Economists theorize that for this reason sub-Saharan Africa and other less developed countries will not be able to meet poverty goals like the Millennium Development Goals through growth alone.\n\nCritics argue that the Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle looks at aggregate concepts in a way that ignores the processes behind those concepts. Critics say terms like \"poverty,\" \"inequality,\" and \"growth\" are too broad. Instead, critics suggest that poverty should be traced back to individual behavior. Developmental economists Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo argue that cross-country data cannot be used to give any meaningful insight on topics like poverty and inequality.\n\nCritics also argue that the simplified nature of the model means that it misses factors that affect absolute poverty. Poverty itself can be considered a barrier for economic growth, meaning that the Poverty-Growth-Inequality Triangle would need to consider the effect of poverty on growth. Other economists argue that the triangle should include financial instability, crises, the business cycle, and their effects on poverty. Finally, many economists believe that there is a strong link between education, literacy rates, and poverty, and that the focus on decreasing poverty should lie in targeting these areas in addition to inequality and growth.\n\n"}
{"id": "418830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418830", "title": "Puerto Rican Independence Party", "text": "Puerto Rican Independence Party\n\nThe Puerto Rican Independence Party (, PIP) is a social-democratic political party in Puerto Rico that campaigns for the independence of Puerto Rico from United States suzerainty.\n\nThose who follow the PIP ideology are usually called \"independentistas\", \"pipiolos\", or sometimes just \"pro-independence activists\".\n\nThe party began as the electoral wing of the Puerto Rican independence movement. It is the largest of the independence parties, and the only one that is on the ballot during elections (other candidates must be added in by hand). In 1948, two years after being founded, the PIP gathered 10.2% of the votes in the island. In 1952, two years after an armed uprising of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party, it obtained 19% of the votes, its highest electoral support ever, which made it the second electoral party on the island for a moment. In 1956 it took 12.4% of the votes; in 1960 3.1%; in 1964, 4%; in 1968, 3.5; in 1972, 5.4; in 1976, 5.7; in 1980, 5.4; in 1984, 3.6, and in 1988, 5.5. In 2004 it obtained 2.7% of the votes, and in 2008 it took 2%.\n\nThe party was founded on October 20, 1946, by Gilberto Concepción de Gracia (1909–1968) and his colleague . They felt the independence movement had been \"betrayed\" by the Popular Democratic Party, whose ultimate goal had originally been independence.\n\nIn 2003, \"The New York Times\" reported the following about the Federal Bureau of Investigation publicly admitting it had directed \"tremendously destructive\" efforts against various organizations, including the Puerto Rican Independence Party:\n\nThe FBI's surveillance of any person or organization advocating Puerto Rico's independence has been recognized by the FBI's top leadership.\n\nThe FBI's past surveillance of the pro-independence movement is detailed in 1.8 million documents, a fraction of which were released in 2000.\n\nThen FBI Director Louis Freeh made an unprecedented admission to the effects that the FBI had engaged in egregious and illegal action from the 1930s to the 1990s, quite possibly involving the FBI in widespread crimes and violation of Constitutional rights against Puerto Ricans. He stunned a congressional budget hearing by conceding that his agency had violated the civil rights of many Puerto Ricans over the years and had engaged in \"egregious illegal action, maybe criminal action.\"\n\nIn 1971, the PIP gubernatorial candidate, Rubén Berríos led a protest against the US Navy in Culebra. During the 1972 elections, the PIP showed the largest growth in its history while running a democratic socialist, pro-worker, pro-poor campaign. One year later during a delegate assembly Rubén Berríos declared that the party was not presenting a Marxist–Leninist platform and took the matter to the PIP's assembly which voted in favor of the party's current stance in favor of social democracy. The Marxist–Leninist faction, called the \"terceristas\", split into several groups. The biggest of them went into the Popular Socialist Movement, while the rest went into the Puerto Rican Socialist Party.\n\nIn 1999, PIP leaders, especially Rubén Berríos, became involved in the Navy-Vieques protests started by many citizens of Vieques against the presence of the US military in the island-municipality (\"see also:\" Cause of Vieques).\n\nDuring the 2008 elections, the PIP lost official recognition for the second time, obtaining 2.04% of the gubernatorial vote. Loss of recognition was official on January 2, 2009. The minimum vote percentage to keep official recognition is 3.0% as per the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico law. The party also lost both of its seats in the legislature, where they had had one seat in each house.\n\nIn May 2009, the party submitted more than 100,000 signed petitions to the Puerto Rico's elections commission and regained legal status.\n\nDuring the 2012 elections, the PIP lost official recognition for the third time, obtaining 2.5% of the gubernatorial vote. Loss of recognition will be official on January 2, 2013. The minimum vote percentage to keep official recognition is 3.0% as per the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico law.\n\nFor the 2016 election, Senator María de Lourdes Santiago was the party's nominee. She obtained 33,452 votes and came in fifth place, with 2.1% of the vote. Some of the senator's main policies for the election are outlined below\n\n\nThe PIP cause receives moral support by international organizations. Examples of these are the Socialist International (the largest organization of political parties in the world), including fifteen political parties which are in power in Latin America. The government of Cuba also supports it, as well as the ex-president of Panama, Martín Torrijos, and a wide group of world-recognized writers and artists.\n\nOn January 26, 2007, the Nobel Prize laureate Gabriel García Márquez joined other figures such as Mario Benedetti, Ernesto Sábato, Thiago de Mello, Eduardo Galeano, Carlos Monsiváis, Pablo Armando Fernández, Jorge Enrique Adoum, Pablo Milanés, Luis Rafael Sánchez, Mayra Montero and Ana Lydia Vega, in supporting independence for Puerto Rico and joining the Latin American and Caribbean Congress in Solidarity with Puerto Rico's Independence, which approved a resolution favoring the island's right to assert its independence, as ratified unanimously by political parties hailing from 22 countries in November 2006. García Márquez's push for the recognition of Puerto Rico's independence was obtained at the behest of the Puerto Rican Independence Party. His pledge for support to the Puerto Rican Independence Movement was part of a wider effort that emerged from the Latin American and Caribbean Congress in Solidarity with Puerto Rico's Independence.\n\nAs reported in numerous media, the PIP's leadership and active members participated in anti-war protests and mobilization to resist the Iraq War and oppose the U.S. government's efforts to encourage Puerto Ricans to enlist in the U.S. Armed Forces. The \"Washington Post\" wrote in August 2007 that \"on this island with a long tradition of military service, pro-independence advocates are tapping the territory's growing anti-Iraq war sentiment to revitalize their cause. As a result, 57 percent of Puerto Rico's 10th-, 11th- and 12th-graders, or their parents, have signed forms over the past year withholding contact information from the Pentagon. ... For five years, PIP has issued opt-out forms to about 120,000 students in Puerto Rico and encouraged them to sign—and independista activists expect this year to mark their most successful effort yet.\" The article also quoted Juan Dalmau, then-secretary general of the Puerto Rican Independence Party as saying: if the death of a Puerto Rican soldier is tragic, it's more tragic if that soldier has no say in that war [with Iraq]\" and that he did not want the children of Puerto Rico to become \"colonial cannon meat.\"\n\nAnother article in \"The Progressive\" also reported on PIP's anti-war activity. It was written three years earlier, in 2004, but it still noted that \"some groups like the Puerto Rico Bar Association and the Independence Party have registered strong protests against the deployments. In an attempt to draw attention to Puerto Ricans' lack of elected representatives, even the usually pro-U.S. statehood party has raised concerns about the disproportionate body count suffered by islanders.\" Two years later, it was reported that PIP, along with hundreds of other supporters of Puerto Rican independence \"blocked the entrance to the U.S. Federal Courthouse here on Feb. 20 to denounce recent FBI raids against the homes and workplaces of ... supporters of Puerto Rican independence...and the growing repression by the FBI against the independence movement in general.\" This demonstration reportedly marked the beginning of PIP \"campaign to get the FBI out of Puerto Rico.\"\n\nDuring the 2005–2007 Puerto Rico economic crisis, the Puerto Rican Independence Party submitted various bills that would have taxed corporations making $1 million or more in annual net profits an extra ten percent above the average tax rate these corporations pay, which hovers around 5%. The PNP and the PPD parties amended the bill, taxing the corporations the traditional lower rate. Despite objections presented by the PIP, the PNP and PPD also allowed the companies to claim the additional tax as a credit on next year's bill, making the \"tax\", in effect, a one-year loan. Puerto Rico has been said \"There is no place in the territorial limits of the United States that provides such an advantageous base for exporters. \" Because of this, many US companies moved their headquarters and manufacturing facilities there. This is why the PNP and PPD believed the tax increase would exacerbate the problems\n\nThe flag's green color stands for the hope of becoming free, and the white cross stands for the sacrifice and commitment of the party with democracy. The flag's design is based on the first national flag ever flown by Puerto Ricans, which is also the current flag of the municipality of Lares, location where the first relatively successful attempt of revolutionary insurgency in Puerto Rico, called Grito de Lares, took place on September 23, 1868. The Lares flag is, on the other hand, similar to that of the Dominican Republic, since the Grito's mastermind, Ramón Emeterio Betances, not only admired the Dominican pro-independence struggle, but was also half-Dominican himself. The party's flag is based on the Nordic Cross flag design. Nordic Cross flags, or Latin cross flags, are a common design in Scandinavia and other parts of the world, and in theory, the PIP's emblem belongs to this family of flags.\n\nUnited States citizens residing in the U.S. commonwealth of Puerto Rico do not hold the right to vote in U.S. presidential elections. Although Puerto Rican residents elect a Resident Commissioner to the United States House of Representatives, that official may not participate in votes determining the final passage of legislation. Furthermore, Puerto Rico holds no representation of any kind in the United States Senate.\n\nBoth the Puerto Rican Independence Party and the New Progressive Party of Puerto Rico officially oppose the island's political status quo and consider Puerto Rico's lack of federal representation to be disfranchisement. The remaining political organization, the Popular Democratic Party, is less active in its opposition of this case of disfranchisement but has officially stated that it favors fixing the remaining \"deficits of democracy\" that the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations have publicly recognized in writing through Presidential Task Force Reports.\n\nThis chart shows the electoral performance of the Puerto Rican Independence Party in all senatorial elections since 2000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342493", "title": "Red flag (politics)", "text": "Red flag (politics)\n\nIn politics, a red flag is predominantly a symbol of socialism, communism, Marxism, trade unions, left-wing politics, and historically of anarchism; it has been associated with left-wing politics since the French Revolution (1789–99). Socialists adopted the symbol during the Revolutions of 1848 and it became a symbol of communism as a result of its use by the Paris Commune of 1871. The flags of several communist states, including China, Vietnam and the Soviet Union, are explicitly based on the original red flag. The red flag is also used as a symbol by some democratic socialists and social democrats, for example the League of Social Democrats of Hong Kong, French Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party of Germany. The Labour Party in Britain used it until the late 1980s. It was the inspiration for the socialist anthem, \"The Red Flag\".\n\nIn the Middle Ages, ships in combat flew a long red streamer, called the Baucans, to signify a fight to the death. In one petition, a group of English sailors asserted that the Crown had no right to a share of the prize money earned from a Norman ship captured in 1293 because it had raised the Baucans. (Raising this streamer may have been a relatively novel practice at this time, since the writers feel the need to explain it.) By the 17th century, the Baucans had evolved into a red flag, or \"flag of defiance.\" It was raised in cities and castles under siege to indicate that they would not surrender. \"The red flag is a signal of defiance and battle,\" according to \"Chambers Cyclopedia\" (1727–41).\n\nThe red cap was a symbol of popular revolt in France going back to the Jacquerie of 1358. The color red become associated with patriotism early in the French Revolution due to the popularity of the Tricolour cockade, introduced in July 1789, and the Phrygian cap, introduced in May 1790. A red flag was raised over the Champ-de-Mars in Paris on July 17, 1791 by Lafayette, commander of the National Guard, as a symbol of martial law, warning rioters to disperse. As many as fifty anti-royalist protesters were killed in the fighting that followed.\n\nInverting the original symbolism, the Jacobins protested this action by flying a red flag to honor the \"martyrs' blood\" of those who had been killed. They created their own red flags to declare \"the martial law of the people against the revolt of the court.\"\nThe Jacobin Club ruled France during the Reign of Terror (1793–1794) and made the red flag an unofficial national emblem. However, the earlier Tricolor never lost its official status and regained popularity under Napoleon.\n\nBritish sailors mutinied near the mouth of the River Thames in 1797 and hoisted a red flag on several ships. Two red flags soaked in calf's blood were flown by marchers in South Wales during the Merthyr Rising of 1831. It is claimed to be the first time that the red flag was waved as a banner of workers power. Along with the Newport Rising eight years later, it was one of the most serious violent outbreaks witnessed on mainland Britain. The red flags of Merthyr became a potent relic following the execution of early trade unionist Dic Penderyn (Richard Lewis) in August 1831, despite a public campaign to pardon him.\n\nDuring the Mexican siege of the Alamo in March 1836, General Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana displayed a plain red flag (approx. 10 feet square) from the highest church tower in Bejar. The meaning of this flag was not socialism: its meaning - directed to the Alamo defenders - meant \"no surrender; no clemency.\" \nAt much the same time, the Liberal \"Colorados\" in the Uruguayan Civil War used red flags. This prolonged struggle at the time got considerable attention and sympathy from Liberals and revolutionaries in Europe and it was in this war that Garibaldi first made a name for himself and that he was inspired to have his troops wear the famous Red Shirts.\n\nDuring the 1848 Revolution in France, Socialists and radical republicans demanded that the red flag be adopted as France's national flag. Led by poet-politician Alphonse de Lamartine, the government rejected the crowd's demand: \"[T]he red flag that you have brought back here has done nothing but being trailed around the Champ-de-Mars in the people's blood in [17]91 and [17]93, whereas the Tricolore flag went round the world along with the name, the glory and the liberty of the homeland!\"\nThe banner of the Paris Commune of 1871 was red and it was at this time that the red flag became a symbol of communism. The flag was flown by anarchists at a May Day rally for an eight-hour workday in Chicago in 1886. A bomb blast killed a policeman and the Haymarket Eight were arrested and five were executed. This event, considered the beginning of the international labor movement, is still commemorated annually in many countries (although not in the U.S.) The red flag gained great popularity during the Russian Revolution of 1917. The Soviet flag, with a hammer, a sickle and a star on a red background, was adopted in 1923. Various Communist and socialist newspapers have used the name \"The Red Flag.\" In China, both the Nationalist Party-led Republic of China and the Communist Party-led People's Republic of China use a red field for their flags, a reference to their revolutionary origins.\n\nIn more recent times, social democratic parties have gravitated away from the Red Flag as a symbol. However, several European parties retain a \"red square\" symbol, including Germany's SPD and the Party of European Socialists. The building to have had a red flag flying for the longest period of time and to still have one is the Victorian Trades Hall in Melbourne, Australia. The flag has been flying for over a century.\n\nAnarchists, as part of socialist movement, in 19th century also used red flag - it was one of first anarchist symbols. Usage of the red flag by anarchists disappeared after the October Revolution, when red flags started to be associated only with communist parties and bureaucratic, reformist and authoritarian social democracy.\n\nThe red flag was the emblem of the British Labour Party from its inception until the Labour Party Conference of 1986 when it was replaced by a red rose, itself a variant of the \"Fist and Rose\" then in wide use by left of center parties in Europe. The more floral red rose design has subsequently been adopted by a number of other socialist and social-democratic parties throughout Europe. Members of the party also sing the traditional anthem \"The Red Flag\" at the conclusion of the annual party conference. In February 2006 the \"Red Flag\" was sung in Parliament to mark the centenary of the Labour Party's founding. The flag was regularly flown above Sheffield Town Hall on May Day under David Blunkett's Labour administration of Sheffield during the 1980s, leading to Sheffield being labelled the People's Republic of South Yorkshire.\n\nDuring the Red Scare of 1919-20 in the United States, many states passed laws forbidding the display of red flags, including Minnesota, South Dakota, Oklahoma, and California. In \"Stromberg v. California\", the United States Supreme Court held that such laws are unconstitutional. The current flag of Oklahoma dates to this period and was adopted because of the association of the first flag of Oklahoma, a white star on a red background, with socialism.\n\nIn the 19th century, Kuwait was using a red flag, unintentionally virtually identical to the flag used by various revolutionary movements at the time. In 1899 Kuwait changed this flag.\n\nIt has been common to find streets, buildings, businesses and product brands named after the Red Flag in nominally socialist countries as a result of recuperation. For example, a famous line of limousine cars manufactured by China FAW Group Corporation has the brand name of Red Flag.\n\nBelow are two galleries of national and political flags based on the red flag.\n\n"}
{"id": "39767260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39767260", "title": "Sarah Harrison (journalist)", "text": "Sarah Harrison (journalist)\n\nSarah Harrison is WikiLeaks section editor. She works with the WikiLeaks Legal Defense and is Julian Assange's closest adviser. Harrison accompanied National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden on a high-profile flight from Hong Kong to Moscow while he was sought by the United States government.\n\nAs an intern at the Centre, she was assigned to Julian Assange before the Afghan War documents leak. After Daniel Domscheit-Berg left WikiLeaks over a dispute with Assange, Harrison's role in the organisation increased, particularly with the embassy cable publication and Assange's legal fight against Swedish extradition. Harrison is a WikiLeaks section editor. She works with the WikiLeaks Legal Defense led by Baltasar Garzón, and is Julian Assange's closest adviser.\n\nOn 24 June 2013, WikiLeaks said that Harrison accompanied National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden on a high-profile flight from Hong Kong to Moscow en route to political asylum from US extradition. Dominic Rushe of \"The Guardian\" observed that Harrison was a \"strange choice\" because of her lack of legal qualifications compared to other WikiLeaks staff, such as human rights lawyer Jennifer Robinson. At the time, she had been with the organisation for over two years. On 1 August 2013, Harrison accompanied Snowden out of Moscow's Sheremetyevo International Airport after he was granted a year of temporary asylum.\n\nIn 2014, Harrison spoke about her support for WikiLeaks' endeavours saying \"the greatest unaccountable power of today [is] the United States and our Western democracies.\"\n\nHarrison also works as acting director for Courage Foundation, an organisation whose aim is providing support to whistleblowers all around the world, including Edward Snowden himself.\n\nHarrison received the Willy Brandt Peace Prize in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "38377446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38377446", "title": "Sean R. Garner", "text": "Sean R. Garner\n\nSean R. Garner is a physicist currently working on a diverse suite of projects for Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), in San Francisco, CA. Garner received his BA, Mathematics and BS, Physics from University of California, Santa Cruz in 1999, and completed his PhD in Physics in 2005 at Cornell University. His thesis was titled \"Force-Gradient Detection of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance\", and Prof. John A. Marohn was his Doctoral Advisor. He then spent 3 years as a Postdoctoral Fellow at Harvard University, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences researching ultra-slow and stopped light in Bose-Einstein Condensates with Prof. Lene Vestergaard Hau. Garner was the second author on the groundbreaking paper “Coherent control of optical information with matter wave dynamics,” which appeared on the cover of Nature, and detailed the first experimental verification \"that a slow light pulse can be stopped and stored in one Bose–Einstein condensate and subsequently revived from a totally different condensate, 160 m away; information is transferred through conversion of the optical pulse into a travelling matter wave.\"\n\nAfter completing his post-doctoral work, Garner moved to California, to take up the position of Area Manager of PARC San Francisco Research Division in 2009. This allowed him to undertake further work in photovoltaics, sustainable engineering and other technologies designed to innovate PARC products to be \"environmentally friendly\". PARC currently conducts research into \"clean technology\", user interface design, sensemaking, ubiquitous computing and context-aware systems, large-area electronics, and model-based control and optimization in embedded, intelligent systems. Garner is currently managing the Energy Systems group in the Hardware Systems Laboratory, and has a focus on CleanTech, of which PARC is a major sponsor. Garner's current work is focussed on advanced cooling technologies for next-generation air conditioning and refrigeration; atmospheric CO2 capture for renewable, infrastructure-compatible liquid fuels; and enhanced geothermal systems. He has presented many papers at conferences and will be discussing PARC's SENSOR: (Smart Embedded Network of Sensors with Optical Readout) at the ARPA-E Energy Innovation Summit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "394514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394514", "title": "Shih Ming-teh", "text": "Shih Ming-teh\n\nShih Ming-teh (; born 15 January 1941) commonly known as Chairman Shih, is a political activist in Taiwan and was once a political prisoner for 25-and-a-half years.\n\nHe was arrested at the age of 21 in 1962 and charged with creating the \"Taiwan Independence League\" (a study group) with the intention of overthrowing the Kuomintang government, Shih was sentenced to life imprisonment. The sentence was commuted to 15 years in 1975, and Shih was released on 16 June 1977.\n\nHe promptly joined the Tangwai (literally meaning \"outside the party\", because the Kuomintang was the only legally existing political party in Taiwan at that time), became a reporter for the \"Liberty Times\" and married the American researcher Linda Gail Arrigo. After playing a part in organizing the 10 December 1979 pro-democracy rally subsequently known as the Kaohsiung Incident, (also known as the Formosa Incident or Meilitao Incident), an arrest warrant was issued charging Shih with treason, and following 26 days on the run he was again arrested and sentenced to life in prison. In 1984, while he was incarcerated, Polish politician and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Lech Wałęsa nominated him for Peace Prize.\n\nIn July 1987, Chiang Ching-kuo lifted martial law and offered an amnesty to Shih, but he refused to accept. On 20 May 1990 he was finally released. In total, he spent 25 years in prison, 13 years in solitary confinement and over 4 years on hunger strike.\n\nIn 1994, he was elected leader of the legalized opposition Democratic Progressive Party. He was also elected legislator in three occasions. Shih's proposal of a political \"Grand Reconciliation\" in Taiwan earned him strong rejection from within the Democratic Progressive Party, to which he resigned on 14 November 2000.\n\nIn 2006, Shih carried out a massive protest, known as Million Voices Against Corruption, President Chen Must Go, in an effort to force the embattled president Chen Shui-bian to resign. He led an around the clock sit-in in front of the Presidential Building and Taipei Railway Station in Taipei City, pledging to remain there until such time as President Chen resigned, or the reached the end of his term in March 2008. On 5 December 2006, he left Taipei Railway Station pledging to continue the protest alone in \"self-reclusion\" at an apartment nearby. As of April 2007, this protest has ended.\n\nShih was one of the most prominent personalities of the Tangwai movement and greatly contributed to Taiwan's democratization. He had been referred to by some as \"Taiwan's Mandela\".\n\nShih Ming-te's father Shih Kuo-tsui was a well-known practitioner of Chinese medicine.\n\nIn February 1947, Shih Ming-te witnessed at Kaohsiung Station that would later be known as the February 28 Incident. The student leaders of schools were charged as instigators and some were executed as riots broke out. Students seized weapons from Harbor Garrison and exchanged fires with the guards.\n\nHe entered Kaohsiung's Chung-Cheng Senior High in 1957. In 1959, after failing to pass his college entrance exam, he signed up with the ROC Army, passing the admission exams for the artillery school. On occasion he vowed in public to overthrow the ROC government by force, through an armed coup d'état as an army officer. . That same year, his girlfriend gave birth to a daughter when he was 19.\n\nHe briefly served as an artillery officer in Kinmen.\n\nIn 1962 Shih was arrested for alleged involvement in the \"Formosa Independence Movement\"; over 30 more accomplices, mostly army school and university students, were also arrested. Shih's two brothers, poet and painter Shih Ming-cheng and medical school student Shih Ming-hsiung were among them.\n\nIn 1964 Shih was sentenced to life imprisonment for orchestrating the independence movement. He was also stripped of his civil rights for life. Shih was roughened up and suffered the loss of his teeth and spinal damage at the age of 22.\n\nThe Kuomintang regime considered outspoken Shih as a highly dangerous political criminal and therefore prevented him from doing any forced labor that would put him in contact with the world outside prison. This gave him time to do research and study. Shih focused on philosophy, history, international law, linguistics and Japanese. He also developed a strong and resolute personality in prison.\n\nIn the 1970s, Taiwan's government suffered several blows to its international status. First, its seat at the United Nations was taken over by the People's Republic of China, then the United States established official ties with Beijing, severing those with Taipei. A rebellion in the Taiyuan prison, where many of the inmates were political prisoners, was planned. Access to the Taitung radio station and a publicly broadcast declaration of Taiwan's independence from China was one of their goals. Many pro-independence prisoners took part in the plot. On 8 February 1970 five prisoners murdered a guard and tried to take his gun. Ultimately the five inmates broke from prison, only to be caught soon after. The breakout plot was foiled. The Kuomintang believed Shih was one of the masterminds of the uprising and therefore kept him in isolation during his time in Taiyuan. To this date, the investigation documents are still kept confidential and the implication of Shih is disputed by Shih himself, who sued Lin Shu-chi for defamation.\n\nIn 1974, after 12 years of imprisonment, Shih's first wife Chen Li-chu asked for divorce. She had had an affair with one of Shih's friends, who was released before Shih. In 1975, when president Chiang Kai-shek died, his son Chiang Ching-kuo succeeded as KMT Chairman. Under his rule, a leniency policy was implemented. On 16 June 1977, Shih was released after serving only 15 years of a life sentence.\n\nDuring Chiang Ching-kuo's presidency, political opposition to the Kuomintang was suppressed. After Peter Huang's attempt to assassinate Chiang proved unsuccessful, the KMT became more aware of opposition. Shih Ming-teh created a \"party without a name\" amidst the absence of freedom of association in Taiwan at that time. In September 1978 Shih became active in the tangwai movement. In May 1979 this group of non-Kuomintang activists established the \"Meilitao Magazine\"; Shih was named general manager. During this time, he adopted the English nickname \"Nori\", after the Japanese pronunciation of the second Chinese character in his given name, \"Teh\". For historical reasons, this nickname served as a shibboleth to enrage \"Waishengren\" people in Taiwan (mainlanders whose ancestors fought the Japanese), and endear him to the \"benshengren\" (less-recent Hokkien migrants disenfranchised by the Waishengren, and who have a more positive view of Japanese colonization). On 10 December 1979, the Tangwai group commemorated the Human Rights Day in Kaohsiung. The rally operated without prior approval, with specific stipulations that no torches and weapons were allowed. Police intervened and clashed with the protestors resulting in various damages. The event would be known as the Meilitao Incident, a milestone in Taiwan's democratization process.\n\nThree days later, Shih dramatically escaped: Chang Wen-ing, then a dentist and later Mayor of Taichung City, performed plastic surgery on Shih to change his looks so he could escape overseas. Shih was later caught along with the dentist, and sentenced to life in prison for the second time.\n\nDuring the 1980 Meilitao Incident trials Shih was defiant and proud facing a potentially fatal court-martial decision. He declared during his defense: \"Taiwan should be independent, in fact, it already is, it has been for 30 years and currently it is known as the Republic of China\". Shih also demanded an end to the political monopoly of the Kuomintang, the control of the Taiwanese press, and martial law, so that the 30-plus-year rubber-stamping legislative session could be dissolved.\n\nIn 1983, one of Shih's allies, Professor Chen Wen-chen ,was murdered; Shih Ming-te began a 1-month hunger strike to protest what he believed to be an assassination ordered by the secret police.\n\nPolish union leader Lech Wałęsa (Nobel Peace 1983) nominated Shih Ming-teh for the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize..\n\nIn 1985, Shih commenced an indefinite hunger strike. He demanded an end to martial law and state-sponsored political murders, implementation of a democratic system and release of all Meilitao Incident political prisoners. Shih was sent to the Tri-Service General Hospital and underwent force-feeding through a nasogastric tube during his four and half years of protest.\n\nOn 15 July 1987, the 38-year-long order of martial law was declared over by the KMT government, when President Chiang Ching-kuo announced nationwide sentence reductions and conditional releases. Shih declined the offer. In 1988, Shih went on another hunger strike protest with his brother Shih Ming-cheng. His brother died on 23 August 1988; Shih survived.\n\nOn 20 May 1990, the new president Lee Teng-hui officially assumed the presidency and ordered a special amnesty for all Meilitao Incident prisoners. Shih ripped up his amnesty document and demanded an unconditional release. When President Lee announced the invalidation of the Meilitao Trials, Shih Ming-te finally accepted his release as an innocent person. Upon recovering his freedom, he joined the now legal Democratic Progressive Party, which originated in the Tangwai movement.\n\nIn 1992, Shih was elected legislator for the Tainan County constituency in the Legislative Yuan. This election was the first free direct legislative elections in Taiwan history.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1996 Shih was elected Chairman of the Democratic Progressive Party. During his tenure, he claimed that \"Taiwan is already an independent and sovereign nation, when the Democratic Progressive Party is in power, there is no need and it will not announce Taiwan's independence\". At the same time Shih proposed a political and social Grand Reconciliation. Elected legislator for a new term in 1996, he ran for the presidency of the Legislative Yuan, gaining a vote from former archrival New Party but losing one from Democratic Progressive Party legislator Chang Chin-cheng. Liu Sung-pan was elected the President of the Legislative Yuan.\n\nOn 23 March 1996, Taiwan's first direct presidential election was held. The Democratic Progressive Party's candidate was defeated by incumbent president Lee Teng-hui, with only 21.1% of the vote(The DPP got around 30% in before regional elections). Shih Ming-te resigned to his position as party chief, and Chang Chun-hsiung assumeed as acting leader of the opposition party. Shih shifted his attention to the completion of the \"Meilitao Oral History Records\".\n\nOn 1 April 1997, Shih was indicted for a violation to the Mass Gathering and Demonstration Act. He had organized in 1992 a protest demanding direct presidential elections. Huang Hsin-chieh, Hsu Hsin-liang and Lin Yi-hsiung went to prison with Shih for 50 days. This was the third time Shih was imprisoned, but now as a legislator. He was released after 41 days.\n\nIn 1998, Shih was re-elected legislator but this time representing a Taipei City constituency. He would continue his efforts for the completion of the \"Meilitao Oral History Records\". In three years, 200 individuals of the political spectrum. The oral testimonies amounted to over 6 million words, and were edited to a 600,000 word four volume version. To date, this is the most comprehensive historical research of the 1970–1990 era in Taiwan's development, earning it a publishing prize. This was the result of Shih's individual efforts, using his own financial and personal resources. Neither the Democratic Progressive Party nor the government of Taiwan have helped complete this overwhelming historic research project.\n\nIn 2000, Chen Shui-bian, the former Mayor of Taipei City, was elected president. Shih congratulated the leader of the Democratic Progressive Party Lin Yi-hsiung for the triumph. He said in an interview that since his childhood dream of ousting the Chiang's KMT regime had been accomplished, he would leave the political party. In May, Chen before he assumed the presidency, visited Shih's office to personally ask him if he was willing to be appointed senior political advisor. Shih rejected Chen's offer once more, but instead proposed Hsu Hsin-liang for the position.\n\nShih condemned President Chen for leading the country with a minority government, ignoring the KMT majority in the Legislative Yuan and risking political stability. After Chen rejected his suggestion for an alliance with the opposition majority in the Legislative Yuan, Shih further walked away from the party. Believing that Taiwan's greatest challenge in the 21st century was globalization, together with former colleagues Hsu Hsin-liang and Sisy Chen, famous Wen Shih-ren and a dozen others intellectuals and entrepreneurs, founded the \"\"Shan\" (Mountain) Alliance\". Their goal: to draw a road map for Taiwan in the 21st century.\n\nShih ran as an independent twice, in December 2001 and December 2004. On the first occasion he lost with 24,925 votes, on the second he narrowly lost the race by receiving 26,974 votes in the highly contested Taipei North Constituency. He had proposed a parliamentary political system to overcome the aggravation of political differences in Taiwan's society.\n\nIn December 2002, Shih ran as Mayor candidate for Kaohsiung City. His platform: turn the port-city into a free port, much like Hong Kong or Amsterdam, to cope with the challenge of globalization. Direct maritime links with Chinese ports was also part of the proposal. Shih perceived that the political division was so severe that he decided to announce his withdrawal three days before the election.\n\nIn September 2003, Shih Ming-te was a visiting scholar at George Mason University for a one-year period. During his tenure, Shih researched what he called the \"One China: European Union Model\" as a means of ending the impasse between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait, and reiterated his proposal for a constitutional amendment in favor of a parliamentary system, in an attempt to put an end to the political polarization into the two camps (blue or Kuomintang-based and green or Democratic Progressive Party-centered) which was deteriorating into ethnic rivalry between Chinese refugees coming to rule Taiwan in 1949, and those who were there before that time.\n\nOn 6 October 2005, the Department of Political Science at the National Taiwan University opens the \"Shih Ming-te Lecture\" series; ethnic harmony, political reconciliation and cross-Strait peace are its core values.\n\nIn May, 2006, \"Shih Ming-te Lecture\" invited Mr. Frederik Willem de Klerk, Former State President of South Africa, to a dialog with Shih Ming-te: \"Maintaining Peace: South Africa's Experience, a Perspective for Taiwan?\" is the topic.\n\nIn May 2015, Shih announced his intention to run for president as an independent candidate in 2016. He again reiterated the Broad One China Framework first proposed in 2014, in which China and Taiwan govern one legal entity separately. Both governments would be allowed to join international organizations and not use military force against the other, instead \"resolving issues through consensus.\" Shih ended his campaign in September, as he had not been able to fulfill the Central Election Commission requirements needed to stand in the 2016 election.\n\nOn 9 August 2006, Shih wrote an open letter to President Chen Shui-bian, whose aides, wife and son-in-law were implicated in several corruption cases. Shih urged Chen to resign as a display of strength in times of crisis, respect for public opinion and acknowledgement of wrongdoing. Ironically, Chen Shui-bian had been Shih's defense attorney in the aftermath of the Kaohsiung Incident and had been imprisoned for 18 months himself.\n\nOn 12 August 2006, Shih gave a keynote speech to kick-start the \"Million Voices Against Corruption-Chen Must Go\" campaign in the February 28 Incident Memorial Park. He argued that the people could not bear with so much corruption anymore. Shih asks all those who support the movement a NT$100 (US$3, €2.3) donation as a symbol of commitment and consent, as well as a display of determination to ask Chen Shui-bian to leave the Presidential Office. Shih vowed to lead the people in a protest until Chen Shui-bian stepped down if the donations came in. By 22 August 2006, a sum equivalent of that from over 1 million people had been received (the actual number of donators cannot be computed because there was no restriction on the maximum amount of money one could transfer to the designated account) in only seven days. The designated account was quickly closed and the preparations for the marathon protest started.\n\nOn 1 September 2006, the anti-corruption campaign organizers started training for the sit-ins (emergency procedures in case of police intervention). The sit-in began on a rainy day on 9 September 2006. According to the Chinapost, over 300,000 people gathered that day on Ketagalan Avenue, in front of the Presidential Building in Taipei under the pouring rain. The Taipei Police Department claimed there were only 100,00 protestors. According to the organizers' request, most of them were wearing red shirts; no controversial flags or political icons should be displayed, not even the Republic of China flag, perceived as a pro-Kuomintang device. Some protestors still brought along a small Republic of China flag or other campaign items with them.\n\nOn 15 September 2006, a Democratic Progressive Party Taipei city counselor booked the Ketagalan Boulevard site where the red-clad protestors were still gathered. Shih Ming-teh decided to move the protest to Taipei Railway Station. A climax was reached the night of the procession: a large perimeter of over 5.5 kilometers around the heavily guarded Presidential Building and Residence at the heart of Taipei was quickly flooded by peaceful red-clad protestors: the \"China Post\" reported that over 8 hundred thousand people had joined the candlelight encirclement; the Taipei Police again contradicted this with an estimate of 3 hundred thousand.\n\nOn 22 September 2006, Shih declared that he would not form his own political party nor participate in any political negotiations, he also made it clear that he was not willing to engage in negotiations with former president Lee Teng-hui; instead he would stay with the red-clad anti-Chen protestors. On 20 November 2006, Shih Ming-te urged Taipei City Mayor Ma Ying-jeou (the Kuomintang's 2008 presidential hopeful) to resign amidst accusations of corruption. Shih said he was not contemplating anti-corruption protests against Ma, but insisted there should not be double standards regarding corruption allegations. Ma was acquitted.\n\nOn 30 November 2006, the last night of protest by the Million Voices Against Corruption, Chen Must Go Campaign. Shih Ming-te later travelled to Thailand for a TV interview and panel discussion.\n\nOn 7 December 2006, the Special State Funds case of President Chen and his wife was underway, campaign organizers claimed that Taiwan needed to go back to normal, but Shih would protest until Chen steps down. On 1 April 2007, Shih announced the end to his self-imprisonment and started preparations for the second stage of the anti-Chen campaign. Plans involved presenting candidates for the next legislative elections. Originally schedduled for late 2007, the elections would instead be carried out in early 2008.\n\nShih is often considered a \"romantic revolutionary\" in Taiwan media. He believes that he is rooted in his ability \"to pursue unlimited aspirations and ideals under restrictive conditions\". The latest editions of Taiwan's High-School textbooks list Shih Ming-teh as a political activist. Shih's former Legislative Yuan secretary, cartoonist and writer Yu-fu, thinks Shih \"is never quite sure of his own place in history\".\n\nShih is accused by his ex-wife Chen, Li Zhu, in her book, \"The Innocent Song of a Taiwanese Woman,\" of using her as a sex toy, and failing his responsibility as a husband. Chen also claimed Shih been indifferent to his responsibility toward their daughter. Shih Ming-te often says: \"I have been locked up for 25 years, where were you then?\".\n\nAnother former secretary of Shih, Kuo Wen-pin, wrote about his opinion of Shih on Taiwan Daily (15 October 2000): Taking a look at 40 years of his struggle for Taiwan's democracy, he revealed himself as a visionary, making several pioneering proposals ahead of his time.\n\nOver 20 years ago, Shih already said the four evils of Taiwan's path towards democracy were the political monopoly by the Kuomintang, the press control in Taiwan, the martial law and the \"ten thousand year\" legislative session (萬年國會). Risking death penalty, Shih advocated for a \"Republic of China, Taiwanese Independence Model\", and added that \"Taiwan is already an independent country, it has been so for over 30 years\". For his opinions, Shih was considered seditious and the media, organizations, academia, everyone attacked him and humiliated him, only for the Democratic Progressive Party to adopt and implement his ideas; they even led the way to Lee Teng-hui's \"Silent Revolution\" political compromises. When the Kuomintang's 50 years in power ended, the Chen Shui-bian administration accepted some of his teachings. Arrests and repression are no longer the defensive measures of the regime when facing harsh criticism, but the abuse of public power and the media by individuals to insult, humiliate, and defame others is still common practice. The DPP party has vowed to improve its image with more diplomatic means, but this has yet to be seen.\n\nIn the aftermath of Shih's \"red-shirt\" movement, he became a darling of PRC-controlled media, including CCTVPhoenix TV, and the People's Daily. Shih's efforts in discrediting the DPP have been widely praised and reported by various media outlets controlled or owned by the Chinese government. On 20 November 2006, ifeng.com, web portal of pro-CCP television channel Phoenix TV, reported Shih planned a trip to Thailand to discuss his \"red shirt\" philosophy. In the same article, Shih also rebutted claims by representative of the American Institute in Taiwan that the red shirts instigated violence and caused social upheaval.\n\nOn 16 January 2010, chinanews.com.cn, a PRC media outlet, reported the possibility of Shih running for presidency in 2012. On 19 April 2010, www.chinataiwan.org, a Chinese government sponsored site, reported Shih claimed numerous prominent DPP leaders, including Chen Shui-bian and Hsieh Chang-ting, were undercover agents for the Kuomintang against political dissidents during the 1980s. According to Huaxia.com, yet another pro-CCP website, Shih's accusations have caused a general panic in the DPP. A former supporter and pastor of the Presbyterian Church, Wang, Jie Nan, wrote an opinion piece highlighting his disappointment with Shih, starting from Shih's \"red shirt\" movement and his subsequent efforts to undermine the DPP with outlandish accusations.\n\nOn 17 April 2011, Shih courted controversy when he asked Tsai Ing-Wen to publicly disclose her sexual orientation before she participated in her presidential bid. Despite his own support for LGBT rights in Taiwan, Shih was roundly criticized by major women's groups including the Awakening Foundation, the Taiwan Women's Link and the Taiwan Gender Equity Education Association. Tsai herself characterized the request as \"surprising\" and refused to reply.\n\n•Shih Ming-te, 2006, \"qui shi zhi chun (囚室之春, Spring in a Prison Cell)\",\nnew edition. Taipei, Linking books.\n\n•Shih Ming-te, 2002, \"wu si de feng xian zhe (無私的奉獻者, The Selfless\nDevotee)\". Taipei, Commonwealth Publishing Group.\n\n•New Taiwan Foundation, 2002, \"yong yuan de zhu ti: shi mingde yu wei\njingsheng dui tan lu (永遠的主題：施明德與 魏京生 對談錄, A timeless theme: dialogs between Shih Ming-te and Wei Jingsheng)\", Taipei, Linking books.\n\n•Shih Ming-te, 2001, \"yue du shi mingde (閱讀施明德, Readig Shih Ming-te)\".\nTaipei, New Taiwan Foundation.\n\n•Shih Ming-te, 1988, \"shih mingde de zheng zhi yi shu: mei li dao shi jian\njun fa da shen da bian quan wen (施明德的政治遺囑：美麗島事件軍法大審答辯全, Shih Ming-te's Political Testament: The Formosa Incident Hearings)\". Taipei, Avanguard.\n\n•Shih Ming-te, 1989, \"qiu shi zhi chun (囚室之春, Spring in a Prison Cell)\",\nKaohsiung, Tunli Publishing.\n\n•Shih Ming-te, 1992, \"qiu shi zhi chun: shi mingde san wen ji (囚室之春：施明德散文集, Spring in a Prison Cell: A Collection of Essays)\". Taipei, Avangard.\n\n•New Taiwan Foundation, 1995 \"shi mingde guo hui san nian (施明德國會三年,Shih Ming-te's Three-year Term in the Legislative Yuan)\". Taipei, New Taiwan Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49925610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49925610", "title": "Small Luk", "text": "Small Luk\n\nSmall Luk, formerly named Luk yiu-hung, is the first intersex person to openly acknowledge her biological sex characteristics in Hong Kong. She was born with partial androgen insensitivity syndrome. Luk lived as a male for 36 years, and now lives as a woman. She founded the organization “Beyond Boundaries – Knowing and Concerns Intersex” in 2011, which is concerned with, and strives for, the rights of intersex people.\n\nSmall Luk was the first child of her family. When Luk was born, the doctor found that she was intersex, with organs resembling testicles and a penis. Luk was deemed male and underwent more than 20 operations between the ages of 8 and 13 to construct a urethra – the duct that conducts urine from the bladder. When she was 12, the surgery failed. Luk found the surgery too unbearable and attempted suicide several times. News records state that Luk was the only surviving person among the seven people who were operated on as children at Hong Kong’s Kwong Wah Hospital in the 1970s to \"fix\" their anatomies. After surgery at the age of 13, Luk refused further genital reconstruction.\n\nDuring adolescence, Luk developed breasts, suffered stomach cramps and saw blood in her urine. Doctors explained that her body did not respond to androgen. Luk eventually underwent surgery to remove her male genitalia, and now lives as a woman.\n\nApart from the surgical pain, Luk also suffered from bullying. Luk was at the receiving end of discrimination from classmates and teachers.\n\nDespite the past, Luk has completed her education, earning degrees in social work and traditional Chinese medicine, as well as a master’s in gender studies at Chinese University of Hong Kong. She now runs a holistic treatment clinic in Hong Kong.\n\nSmall Luk founded the organization “Beyond Borders-- knowing and concerns intersex” in 2011, and it has been working to spread awareness about intersex people. The aims of the organization are to raise public awareness about intersex people and promote the rights of intersex people, including ending forced genital normalising surgery and conversion therapies. Luk urges the Hong Kong government to educate the public about intersex conditions, extend anti-discrimination laws to cover intersex people and stop foisting surgery on intersex children without consulting them.\nLuk has been invited to various international and local events, including the United Nations meeting in Thailand, to speak on the issue of intersex people and their rights.\n"}
{"id": "8444877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8444877", "title": "Space in landscape design", "text": "Space in landscape design\n\nSpace in landscape design refers to theories about the meaning and nature of space as a volume and as an element of design. The concept of space as the fundamental medium of landscape design grew from debates tied to modernism, contemporary art, Asian art and design as seen in the Japanese garden, and architecture.\n\nElizabeth K. Meyer cites Claude-Henri Watelet's \"Essay on Gardens\" (1774) as perhaps the first reference to space in garden/architectural theory. Andrew Jackson Downing in 1918 wrote \"Space Composition in Architecture\", which directly linked painting and gardens as arts involved in the creation of space.\n\nThe origins of modern northern European thought is a German aesthetic philosophy of the 1890s. By the 1920s, Einstein's theories of relativity were replacing Newton's conception of universal space. Practitioners such as Fletcher Steele, James Rose, Garrett Eckbo, and Dan Kiley began to write and design through a vocabulary of lines, volumes, masses and planes in an attempt to replace the prevalent debate, centered around ideas of the formal and informal, with one that would more closely align their field with the fine arts.\n\nAccording to Adrian Forty, the term \"space\" in relation to design was all but meaningless until the 1890s. At that time two schools began to develop. Viennese Gottfried Semper in 1880 developed an architectural theory based the idea that the first impulse of architecture was the enclosure of space. Camillo Sitte extended Semper's ideas to exterior spaces in his \"City Planning According to Artistic Principles\" (1889). Concurrently, Friedrich Nietzsche built on ideas from Kant which emphasized the experience of space as a force field generated by human movement and perception. Martin Heidegger would later contradict both of these schools. In his 1927 \"Being and Time\" and 1951 \"Building, Dwelling, Thinking\" he claimed that space was neither a construct of the mind nor a given, but was \"that for which a room has been made\" and was created by the object within a room rather than the room itself. Henri Lefebvre would call all of this into question, linking designers' notions of themselves as space-makers to a subservience to a dominant capitalist mode of production. He felt that the abstract space they had created had destroyed social space through alienation, separation, and a privileging of the eye.\n\nJames Rose and Garrett Eckbo, colleagues at Harvard in the 1930s, were the pioneers of a movement which adopted ideas about space from artists such as Wassily Kandinsky, Kurt Schwitters, Naum Gabo and the Russian Constructivists, and from architectural ideas based om Mies van der Rohe's free plan. Seeing gardens as outdoor rooms or sculptures to be walked through, they prioritized movement. In analogy to painting and sculpture, Rose in particular saw elements of landscape as having architectural volume, not just mass: \"In pure landscape, we drop the structural shell and the volume is defined by earth, paving, water and ground cover; foliage, walls, structures and other vertical elements on the sides, and sky, branching and roofing above.\" Eckbo adopted the grid of columns and thin walls of the free plan to make a statement about the social function of the garden as a place where the individual and the collective coincide.\n\nBy the 1940s, writings about space in landscape design had proliferated. Siegfried Giedion, in his \"Space, Time and Architecture\", reframed the history of architecture as that of the history of space. Ernő Goldfinger wrote several influential articles in \"Architectural Review\" addressing the subconscious effect of the sizes and shapes of spaces. He notes that perception of space happens in a state of distraction: we are required to move through a landscape in order to fully experience it. Dan Kiley absorbed these writings and built upon the work of Rose and Eckbo, promoting asymmetry over symmetry, balance over hierarchy, multiple centers, and figure-ground ambiguity.\n\nMinimalist art would have a profound influence on designers of the 1960s such as Peter Walker, Martha Schwartz, and Hideo Sasaki. On the one hand, Sol LeWitt's space-frame sculptures and Carl Andre's floor sculptures of mass-produced objects allowed a re-thinking of the necessity for walls in the formation of space. Geometry, repetition, and changes in ground plane created a \"field of making\" in which walls and even plantings were questioned as essential elements of landscape. Equally at issue in applied practice was the perception on the part of Sasaki that landscape had come to be seen as \"open space\", a white sheet of paper on which to display International Style buildings. This disconnection with the landscape was especially notable in corporate office parks, and Sasaki and Walker addressed this through an attempt to connect interior and exterior spaces.\n\nJames Corner considers landscape spatiality to be one of the three things that distinguish the medium of landscape (the others are landscape temporality and landscape materiality). He refers to Gaston Bachelard in emphasizing the role of scale and psychic location, which distinguish the space of landscape from that of architecture and painting: \"the immediate immensity of the world from the inner immensity of the imagination, the inner space of the self\".\n\nAugustin Berque analyses landscape space by comparing Newtonian universal space and Cartesian dualistic space, in which there is a distinct separation between subject and object, and Chinese mediumistic space, in which a unity of landscape and environment corresponds to a unity of mind and body. Thus postmodern thought brings together the concepts of space as product of mind, body and culture. Rather than being the negative of the objects that occupy it, space can be seen as its own volume with undeniable importance as a design tool. In contemporary design, it is considered a palpable, lived phenomenon that contributes to our perception and experience of the world in subtle but often intentional ways.\n\n"}
{"id": "35921805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35921805", "title": "Spanish blanks plot", "text": "Spanish blanks plot\n\nThe Spanish blanks plot was an alleged pro-Spanish Catholic conspiracy in Scotland, discovered in late 1592. A number of letters to Spain were discovered, which included blank sheets signed by prominent nobles.\n\nThe Spanish Armada had failed in its attempt to conquer England in 1588. The undeclared Anglo-Spanish War continued, however. The Kingdom of Scotland under James VI was divided over religion, despite the formal ascendancy of the Church of Scotland at this time in a presbyterian form. The Scottish nobility were turbulent, while the king was working to assert administrative and political control of the country against factional and religious strife. A Jesuit mission concerned with Scotland included William Crichton and Robert Abercromby; it looked to help from Spain to further the aims of the Counter-reformation in the British Isles.\n\nAndrew Knox, Minister of Paisley was sent to arrest George Kerr, son of Mark Kerr of Newbattle. George Kerr was about to sail to Spain from the west coast of Scotland, and carried incriminating correspondence. He was arrested at night on the Isle of Cumbrae. The \"Spanish blanks\" which were found with other letters in a chest on Kerr's boat, were documents signed by four members of the Catholic nobility of Scotland, and otherwise left to be filled in. At first, the English diplomat Robert Bowes supposed the blanks had writing in invisible ink written with \"white vitriol\".\n\nGeorge Kerr, his servant, and the letters were taken to Edinburgh and examined by the Privy Council on 2 January 1593. Under torture, Kerr said that the blanks were to be filled in by Crichton, to forward a Spanish invasion. Damagingly for James VI (it has been said), Kerr was also carrying a copy of a position paper by the king on the possible advantages to him in accepting Spanish help.\n\nThree prominent Earls were directly implicated:\n\nThe fourth signature on the papers discovered was that of Sir Patrick Gordon of Auchindoun. Erroll and Huntly were given a date of 5 February to appear and explain themselves: they did not do so, and went to ground in the north. The king was confronted by them on 24 October, on the road from Soutra to Fala, south-east of Edinburgh; they explained that the blanks related to their support for the Jesuits in Scotland.\n\nOthers involved were:\n\n\nAn official account of the plot appeared in February 1593; it is assumed it was edited by John Davidson. It by no means included all the intercepted letters; but it printed a number concerned with William Sempill in 1589; the connection was that when Sempill's servant Pringle was found in England carrying letters to the Duke of Parma, they had included some from Huntly and Erroll.\n\nPerceptions of James VI shifted after the discoveries: some assumed the affair showed the king had at least tacitly approved dealings with Spain, and many more put it down to slackness in anti-Catholic measures.\n\n"}
{"id": "2741686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741686", "title": "The Lucky Country", "text": "The Lucky Country\n\nThe Lucky Country is a 1964 book by Donald Horne. The title has become a nickname for Australia and is generally used favourably, although the origin of the phrase was negative in the context of the book. Among other things, it has been used in reference to Australia's natural resources, weather, history, its early dependency of the British system, , and other sorts of supposed prosperity.\n\nHorne's intent in writing the book was to portray Australia's climb to power and wealth based almost entirely on luck rather than the strength of its political or economic system, which Horne believed was \"second rate\". In addition to political and economic weaknesses, he also lamented on the lack of innovation and ambition, as well as a philistinism in the absence of art, among the Australian population, viewed by Horne as being complacent and indifferent to intellectual matters. He also commented on matters relating to Australian puritanism, as well as conservatism, particularly in relation to censorship and politics.\n\nThe title of Horne's book comes from the opening words of the book's last chapter:\n\nAustralia is a lucky country run mainly by second rate people who share its luck. It lives on other people's ideas, and, although its ordinary people are adaptable, most of its leaders (in all fields) so lack curiosity about the events that surround them that they are often taken by surprise.\nHorne's statement was an indictment of 1960s Australia. His intent was to comment that, while other industrialized nations created wealth using \"clever\" means such as technology and other innovations, Australia did not. Rather, Australia's economic prosperity was largely derived from its rich natural resources and immigration. Horne observed that Australia \"showed less enterprise than almost any other prosperous industrial society.\"\n\nIn his 1976 follow-up book, \"Death of the Lucky Country\", Horne clarified what he had meant when he first coined the term:\n\nWhen I invented the phrase in 1964 to describe Australia, I said: 'Australia is a lucky country run by second rate people who share its luck.' I didn't mean that it had a lot of material resources … I had in mind the idea of Australia as a [British] derived society whose prosperity in the great age of manufacturing came from the luck of its historical origins … In the lucky style we have never 'earned' our democracy. We simply went along with some British habits.\n\nIn the decades following his book's publication, Horne became critical of the \"lucky country\" phrase being used as a term of endearment for Australia. He commented, \"I have had to sit through the most appalling rubbish as successive generations misapplied this phrase.\"\n\nThe book became a phenomenon at its publication, despite some initially critical reviews. One commentator remarked that the release of the book was like \"A bucket of cold saltwater emptied onto the belly of a dreaming sunbather\".\n\nIt was published at a time when criticism of Australia, which had experienced an ascension to wealth and prosperity in a relatively short history (the country was federated in 1901), was rife. It is not the only book to shine an unfavourable light on the country: Robin Boyd's \"The Australian Ugliness\" was released four years earlier in 1960 and is considered a seminal work on Australian architecture. Boyd's book was an indictment on the taste of Australian suburbanites, and the aesthetic of the Australian suburbs, which he lamented was in a deplorable state, full of European imitation styles fused together to make one whole. \n\nHorne's book was given an unofficial sequel in 2016, with Ian Lowe's \"The Lucky Country? Reinventing Australia\". Lowe's book addresses Horne's stance, and states that due to poor leadership, little has changed since \"The Lucky Country\".\n\nWith regard to economic innovation, Australia still ranks low: in 2014 \"The Economist\"'s Economic Innovation Index ranked Australia 22nd, behind Japan, the US, Germany and Sweden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "330241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330241", "title": "Three generations of human rights", "text": "Three generations of human rights\n\nThe division of human rights into three generations was initially proposed in 1979 by the Czech jurist Karel Vasak at the International Institute of Human Rights in Strasbourg. He used the term at least as early as November 1977. Vasak's theories have primarily taken root in European law.\n\nHis divisions follow the three watchwords of the French Revolution: \"Liberty, Equality, Fraternity\". The three generations are reflected in some of the rubrics of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights includes rights that are thought of as second generation as well as first generation ones, but it does not make the distinction in itself (the rights listed are not in specific order).\n\nFirst-generation human rights, sometimes called \"blue\" rights, deal essentially with liberty and participation in political life. They are fundamentally civil and political in nature: They serve negatively to protect the individual from excesses of the state. First-generation rights include, among other things, the right to life, equality before the law, freedom of speech, the right to a fair trial, freedom of religion, and voting rights. They were pioneered by the United States Bill of Rights and in France by the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen in the 18th century, although some of these rights and the right to due process date back to the Magna Carta of 1215 and the Rights of Englishmen, which were expressed in the English Bill of Rights in 1689.\n\nThey were enshrined at the global level and given status in international law first by Articles 3 to 21 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and later in the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In Europe, they were enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights in 1953.\n\nSecond-generation human rights are related to equality and began to be recognized by governments after World War II. They are fundamentally economic, social, and cultural in nature. They guarantee different members of the citizenry equal conditions and treatment. Secondary rights would include a right to be employed in just and favorable condition, rights to food, housing and health care, as well as social security and unemployment benefits. Like first-generation rights, they were also covered by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and further embodied in Articles 22 to 28 of the Universal Declaration, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights.\n\nIn the United States of America, President Franklin D. Roosevelt proposed a Second Bill of Rights, covering much the same grounds, during his State of the Union Address on January 11, 1944. Today, many nations, states, or groups of nations have developed legally binding declarations guaranteeing comprehensive sets of human rights, e.g. the European Social Charter.\n\nSome states have enacted some of these economic rights, e.g. the state of New York has enshrined the right to a free education, as well as \"the right to organize and to bargain collectively\", and workers' compensation, in its constitutional law.\n\nThese rights are sometimes referred to as \"red\" rights. They impose upon the government the duty to respect and promote and fulfill them, but this depends on the availability of resources. The duty is imposed on the state because it controls its own resources. No one has the direct right to housing and right to education. (In South Africa, for instance, the right is not, \"per se\", to housing, but rather \"to have access to adequate housing\", realised on a progressive basis.)\n\nThe duty of government is in the realization of these positive rights.\n\nThird-generation human rights are those rights that go beyond the mere civil and social, as expressed in many progressive documents of international law, including the 1972 Stockholm Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, the 1992 Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and other pieces of generally aspirational \"soft law\". Because of the present-day tilting toward national sovereignty and the preponderance of would-be offender nations, these rights have been hard to enact in legally binding documents.\n\nThe term \"third-generation human rights\" remains largely unofficial, just as the also-used moniker of \"green\" rights, and thus houses an extremely broad spectrum of rights, including:\n\n\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights ensures many of those: right to self-determination, right to development, right to natural resources and right to satisfactory environment. Some countries also have constitutional mechanisms for safeguarding third-generation rights. For example, the Hungarian Parliamentary Commissioner for Future Generations, the Parliament of Finland's Committee for the Future, and the erstwhile Commission for Future Generations in the Knesset in Israel.\n\nSome international organizations have offices for safeguarding such rights. An example is the High Commissioner on National Minorities of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. The Directorate-General for the Environment of the European Commission has as its mission \"protecting, preserving and improving the environment for present and future generations, and promoting sustainable development\".\n\nA few jurisdictions have enacted provisions for environmental protection, e.g. New York's \"forever wild\" constitutional article, which is enforceable by action of the New York State Attorney General or by any citizen \"ex rel.\" with the consent of the Appellate Division.\n\nMaurice Cranston argued that scarcity means that supposed second-generation and third-generation rights are not really rights at all. If one person has a right, others have a duty to respect that right, but governments lack the resources necessary to fulfill the duties implied by citizens' supposed second- and third-generation rights.\n\nCharles Kesler, a professor of government at Claremont McKenna College and senior fellow of the Claremont Institute, has argued that second- and third-generation human rights serve as an attempt to cloak political goals, which the majority may well agree are good things in and of themselves, in the language of rights, and thus grant those political goals inappropriate connotations. In his opinion, calling socio-economic goods \"rights\" inherently creates a related concept of \"duties\", so that other citizens have to be coerced by the government to give things to other people in order to fulfill these new rights. He also has stated that, in the US, the new rights create a \"nationalization\" of political decision-making at the federal level in violation of federalism. In his book \"Soft Despotism, Democracy's Drift\", Paul Rahe, the Charles O. Lee and Louise K. Lee Chair in Western Heritage at Hillsdale College, wrote that focusing on equality-based rights leads to a subordination to the initial civil rights to an ever-expanding government, which would be too incompetent to provide for its citizens correctly and would merely seek to subordinate more rights.\n\n19th century philosopher Frederic Bastiat summarized the conflict between these negative and positive rights by saying:\n\nEconomist F. A. Hayek has argued that the second generation concept of \"social justice\" cannot have any practical political meaning:\n\nNew York University School of Law professor of law Jeremy Waldron has written in response to critics of the second-generation rights:\n\nHungarian socialist and political economist Karl Polanyi made the antithetical argument to Hayek in the book \"The Great Transformation\". Polanyi wrote that an uncontrolled free market would lead to repressive economic concentration and then to a co-opting of democratic governance that degrades civil rights.\n\nThe World Conference on Human Rights opposed the distinction between civil and political rights (negative rights) and economic, social and cultural rights (positive rights) that resulted in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action proclaiming that \"all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1587358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587358", "title": "Topicality (policy debate)", "text": "Topicality (policy debate)\n\nTopicality is a stock issue in policy debate which pertains to whether or not the plan affirms the resolution as worded. To contest the topicality of the affirmative, the negative interprets a word or words in the resolution and argues that the affirmative does not meet that definition, that the interpretation is preferable, and that non-topicality should be a voting issue.\n\nA topicality violation, as presented in the 1NC, is generally as follows:\n\nLimits are a measure of how many cases would be topical under a given interpretation of the topic and whether that cleavage of cases is predictable. Teams will often debate the desirability of having a small or large number of topical cases.\n\nGround is a measure of the quantity and quality of arguments and literature available to both teams under a certain interpretation of the topic. Teams will often debate the desirability of incorporating or excluding certain arguments.\n\nBrightline (sometimes called precision) is a measure of how clear the division is between topical and non-topical cases under a certain interpretation.\n\nGrammar is a measure of how grammatically correct an interpretation is. Some teams argue that grammar is key to the predictability of an interpretation.\n\nAn Education standard asserts that the negative's interpretation of the resolution focuses the debate down to the most important area(s) for learning. This involves explaining why the topics and discussions preserved by the negative's interpretation are more important to the affirmative case and cases under the counterinterpretation.\n\nEffects topicality alleges that the Affirmative team is not topical in its direct mandate(s) or intent, but only arrives at alleviating the Harms introduced by the Affirmative team typically associated with the topic through a variety of internal links. An example might be a case under a topic about limiting the use or stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction that declares war on North Korea or Iran. The Negative team would argue that such a case would only possibly be topical if it could be proven beyond a doubt not only that Iran or North Korea had weapons of mass destruction but also if such a war did not increase global proliferation pressures or involve the eventual use of weapons of mass destruction or did not lead to looting of such stockpiles, all very tendentious assumptions.\n\nNegative teams will typically argue that such plans drastically abuse the resolution (i.e. allow too wide of a variety of cases to be run). Any case or plan could fall under the topic if enough causal links are allowed, and in running a Topicality attack, the Negative team states topicality should be decided based on a strict reading of the Affirmative plan text (whether or not it takes the stock issue of solvency into account). Affirmative teams will either argue that they are not effectual, that the plan's mandate directly falls under the rubric of the topic (though they may continue to claim remote advantages not typically associated with topical cases), or that effects topicality is acceptable.\n\nExtra-topicality is sometimes run in conjunction with FX, sometimes separately. The argument is that the Affirmative plan includes \"planks\" or components that are not topical. For example, a plan under an energy-conservation topic might both sign the Kyoto Protocol and increase general science funding across the board, obviously including energy conservation. Such a plan might then argue for environmental, economic or military benefits separate from anything having to do with energy conservation. A Negative team would argue that this would be extra-topical because the plan is acting in areas that are outside the boundaries of the resolution (therefore, \"extra\"-topicality). Either seriously or as an example, sometimes Negatives running against FX and Extra cases will run counterplans that they argue would be the truly topical version of the Affirmative plan: For example, the Negative in the above case could run a counterplan wherein they only sign Kyoto. Negative teams will argue that the whole plan's mandate must be topical, as otherwise every Affirmative could run a different permutation of topical and non-topical components and make the topic literally unlimited. Affirmative teams will either argue that extra-topicality is legitimate or, much more frequently, that all components of their plan are in fact topical. A plan can arguably be extra-topical, not topical and FX-topical all at once: Its arguably topical plank may both not be topical no matter the causal links and rely on causal links to get to its arguable topicality, as well as having non-topical planks.\n\nUnder the competing interpretations framework, if the negative presents a better interpretation than the affirmative's (which the affirmative does not meet), the negative wins. In other words, the affirmative's burden is to meet the best interpretation in the round. The usual affirmative answer is \"reasonability\", that is, that if the affirmative meets a good definition of the topic, the affirmative wins the debate, even if it isn't the best definition of the topic. In other words, the affirmative's burden is to meet some interpretation in the round that is sufficiently good.\n\nSome teams argue that it is unfair for the negative to have to debate a non-topical case and thus the judge should vote against one. This voting issue is sometimes referred to as \"competitive equity.\"\n\nSome Negative teams argue that non-topical cases decrease the educational factor of a round. This is true. However, it should not constitute a real argument in and of itself; simply because the Affirmative team's plan is not the best provides no reason for the judge to vote against the Affirmative team.\n\nSome teams argue that the judge only has the jurisdiction to vote for cases which affirm the resolution. This justification has largely fallen out of favor in collegiate debate after the 2001-2002 Native Americans topic led to large numbers of kritiks about how it was the issue and mindset of jurisdiction that destroyed Native American culture.\n\nAffirmatives can deploy a variety of answers to topicality violations in the 2AC. They can be generally categorized as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1743892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1743892", "title": "Uniting for Consensus", "text": "Uniting for Consensus\n\nUniting for Consensus (UfC) is a movement, nicknamed the Coffee Club, that developed in the 1990s in opposition to the possible expansion of permanent seats in the United Nations Security Council. Under the leadership of Italy, it aims to counter the bids for permanent seats proposed by G4 nations (Brazil, Germany, India, and Japan) and is calling for a consensus before any decision is reached on the form and size of the Security Council.\n\nItaly, through the ambassador Francesco Paolo Fulci, along with Pakistan, Mexico and Egypt, in 1995 founded the \"Coffee Club\". The four countries were united by a rejection of the proposal to increase number of permanent members of the Security Council, instead desiring to encourage the expansion of non-permanent seats. The founders of the group were soon joined by other countries, including Spain, Argentina, Turkey, Canada, and South Korea, and in a short time the group came to include about 50 countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The thesis of the Uniting for Consensus group is that the increase of permanent seats would have further accentuated the disparity between the member countries and resulted in the extension of a series of privileges with a cascade effect. The new permanent members would have in fact benefited from the method of electing, which is particularly advantageous in a number of specific organs of the United Nations System .\n\nAfter having agreed with the need to increase the representativeness of the Security Council, in 2005 during the 59th session of the United Nations General Assembly, the UfC group — led by the representatives of Canada, Italy, Colombia and Pakistan — made a proposal that centres on an enlargement of the number of non-permanent members from ten to twenty. The non-permanent members would be elected by the General Assembly for a two-year term and would be eligible for immediate re-election, subject to the decision of their respective geographical groups. The other members and co-sponsors of the text, entitled \"Reform of the Security Council\", were listed as Argentina, Costa Rica, Malta, Mexico, San Marino, South Korea, Spain and Turkey. Although the proposal was not accepted, the initiative found broad consensus among member states, including permanent member China.\n\nOn 20 April 2009, Colombia and Italy, acting as representatives of the UfC group, provided a new model of reform, which was presented as a concrete attempt to reach a deal. The document proposed creating a new category of seats, still non-permanent, but elected for an extended duration (3 to 5 years terms) without the possibility of immediate re-elections. This new kind of seat would not be allocated to single national countries but rather to regional groups on a rotational basis. As far as traditional categories of seats are concerned, the UfC proposal does not imply any change, but only the introduction of small and medium size states among groups eligible for regular seats. This proposal includes even the question of veto, giving a range of options that goes from abolition to limitation of the application of the veto only to Chapter VII matters.\n\nDuring the last round, Italy firmly rejected the G4 proposal as well as the African Union one and even denounced the unfair behaviour of G4 countries. According to Italy, the G4 is attempting to exclude the UfC proposal from the floor, “on the basis of a presumed level of support”. Moreover, Italy believes that it has shown flexibility by putting forward a new proposal on April 2009, while the G4 remained tied to its 2005 document. Italy's active role in current discussions started in February 2009 before the beginning of intergovernmental negotiations, when Minister of Foreign Affairs Franco Frattini hosted more than 75 countries to develop a shared path towards a reform of the Security Council. On May 2011, the members states which have participated in the group meeting held in Rome rose to 120.\n\nAs of 19 February 2009, core members of the Uniting for Consensus group were:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Whilst Spain isn't an official member of the G20, it is a permanent invitee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43962376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43962376", "title": "Vaughan Foods beheading incident", "text": "Vaughan Foods beheading incident\n\nThe Vaughan Foods beheading incident occurred on September 24, 2014, when a man attacked two employees at the Vaughan Foods food processing plant in Moore, Oklahoma, United States, with a knife. Colleen Hufford was beheaded, while another employee, Traci Johnson, was stabbed and critically injured. The suspect identified as Alton Nolen who was fired from the plant prior to the attack, was then shot and wounded by Vaughan Foods Chief Operating Officer Mark Vaughan. Alton Nolen was charged with first-degree murder and assault and battery with a deadly weapon, while facing possible federal charges as well. The attack came to national attention due to its gruesome nature, which followed a well-publicized recent series of beheadings carried out by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).\n\nNolen was convicted of murder and assault in October 2017. A jury recommended that he receive the death penalty, and, on December 15, 2017, a judge sentenced Nolen to death by lethal injection.\n\nOn September 24, 2014, a Vaughan Foods employee identified as Alton Nolen was suspended from his job in suburban Oklahoma City after one of the victims (Traci Johnson) initiated a complaint against him following an argument \"about [Nolen] not liking white people,\" according to Cleveland County Prosecutor Greg Mashburn. Immediately afterwards, he went home to retrieve a knife and placed it inside his shoe. He then drove to the plant's main distribution center, crashed into a parked car, and entered the front administrative office area. There, according to detectives, he attacked a female employee (Colleen Hufford) from behind with the knife, first slashing her throat and then beheading her. Other coworkers tried to stop him during the assault by kicking him and throwing chairs at him. He proceeded to slash the throat and face of another female employee, Traci Johnson, intending to behead her as well. The attack ended when he was shot and wounded by Vaughn Foods Chief Operating Officer Mark Vaughan, who was also an Oklahoma County reserve deputy, and arrested by responding police.\n\nThe slain victim in the attack was identified as 54-year-old Colleen Hufford (January 5, 1960 - September 24, 2014). Her cause of death was verified to be \"decapitation due to multiple sharp force trauma to neck\" and classified as a homicide. 43-year-old Traci Johnson, the injured victim, was treated at the University of Oklahoma Medical Center for multiple stab wounds and survived her injuries.\n\nAlton Alexander Nolen (born August 16, 1984), at the time age 30, was identified as the sole perpetrator in the attack. He worked as a production line employee at Vaughan Foods before being suspended. He was charged with assault and battery on a police officer after being pulled over in 2010 for having a suspended license plate. He fled, sparking a massive manhunt that lasted for twelve hours. Nolen was sentenced to five years in prison, but was released on March 2013 after serving two years and ordered to attend an anger management course. He was also convicted of cocaine possession with the intent to distribute during the following year.\n\nNolen had been suspended from his job prior to the attack due to \"personnel issues\", although specific details still remain unclear. Injured victim Traci Johnson later claimed it was from an altercation she had with him when he stated he \"did not like white people\". The weapon he used in the attack was a 10-inch work knife used by employees to cut lettuce and other vegetables, allegedly acquired from his home. County District Attorney Greg Mashburn, noted that Nolen reportedly had three specific targets for the attack, including Johnson. The other two reported targets were not hurt during the incident. Nolen was shot and stopped by the company's Chief Operating Officer, a reserve deputy who happened to be armed.\n\nThe motive for the attack was initially unclear, as it was not known if the suspect's beliefs played a role in the attack. In their search warrant requests, police reported that witnesses had stated \"Nolen had several previous disagreements and arguments with employees,\" while describing him as becoming increasingly violent, disrespectful, and aggressive towards his co-workers. \"Witnesses also had overheard Nolen saying that he did not like and beat Caucasians.\" Nolen had also \"recently converted to the Islam religion and was attempting to convince other employees to convert to the religion,\" and that Nolen had become aggressive and belligerent to other employees, while wanting others to call him 'Muhammad.'\n\nHowever, prosecutors noted that Nolen had demonstrated an \"infatuation\" with beheadings. Because of the brutal manner of death and the fact that the attack followed a series of high-profile videotaped beheadings carried out by Islamic State (ISIS) militants in the Middle East, Moore police asked the FBI to assist in the investigation. The FBI was also investigating the attack because Nolen \"was saying Arabic terms in the attack,\" according to County Prosecutor Greg Mashburn. Although Nolen attended a Baptist church as a youth, Oklahoma prison system records listed his religion as Islam. FBI officials confirmed that their investigation included whether Nolen's recent conversion to Islam was somehow linked to the crime. Moore Police Sgt. Jeremy Lewis confirmed his department's request for FBI help investigating Nolen's background. Oklahoma prison records also show that Nolen, who has a previous criminal record, has a tattoo reading \"Assalamu Alaikum\", an Arabic greeting that translates to \"Peace be with you\".\n\nAfter his arrest, news websites published information from his Facebook page, in which he calls himself \"Jah'Keem Yisrael\" and uploaded photos of himself reading the Koran and wearing Muslim religious clothing. His online posts were often related to Islamist interests, condemning the United States and Israel, also claiming that sharia law was coming.\n\nUsing his Islamic name, \"Jah'Keem Yisrael\" his Facebook page featured photos of the Taliban, Osama bin Laden, as well as an image of a partially decapitated man with someone standing over him pulling his head back to show the wound. A photo of the September 11 attacks was shown with the caption:\n\nA Future Prophecy Revelation 18:8 She (The statue Of Liberty) is going into flames. She and anybody who's with her. \n\nPatrick T. Dunleavy, former deputy inspector general of the New York State Police Criminal Intelligence Unit and author of \"The Fertile Soil of Jihad: Terrorism's Prison Connection\", calls it likely that Alton's actions were the result of radicalization.\n\nSaad Mohammed, director of information for the Islamic Society of Greater Oklahoma City, confirmed that Alton Nolen began worshipping at the Islamic Society of Greater Oklahoma City (ISGOC) mosque in May and that he has seen him there several times since. A picture on Nolan's Facebook page shows him attending the mosque on September 5, 2014, nineteen days before the attack and murder. Although, he claimed Nolen wasn't outgoing and those who attended the same mosque as he did described his behavior as \"a little odd\" and \"a little weird\", nonetheless his behavior didn't raise any red flags. Mohammed said that Nolen's actions did not reflect the beliefs of Islam.\n\nOn September 30, Nolen was charged with first-degree murder and assault and battery with a deadly weapon. According to police, he \"openly admitted\" to killing Hufford and injuring Johnson during the attack. Prosecutors are expected to pursue the death penalty in the case. A preliminary hearing was scheduled for October 14, but it was later rescheduled to December 2 due to a scheduling conflict with Nolen's lawyers. It was rescheduled again to April 2015. The preliminary hearing was delayed again until June 10, but it was postponed again until July 30. On September 15, 2015, a competency trial for Nolen was set for October 26.\n\nOn October 28, 2015, District Judge Lori Walkley ruled that Alton Nolen was competent to stand trial. He is accused of beheading co-worker Colleen Hufford, and nearly beheading Traci Johnson, a second co-worker, who survived her injuries. He also faces four assault and battery charges for threatening or assaulting co-workers with a knife. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty.\n\nOn August 17, 2016, an Oklahoma judge ruled that Nolen was not competent to enter a guilty plea in his murder case. The state mental hospital in Vinita is handling Nolen's treatment and evaluation. The case was put on hold until Nolen returns from Vinita for a post evaluation hearing. Nolen's trial officially began on September 11, 2017. On September 30, 2017, after two hours of deliberation, the jury convicted Nolen of one count of first-degree murder and five counts of assault. On October 2, 2017, the jury sentenced him to life in prison for the assaults. The jury also recommended on October 12, 2017, that Nolen be sentenced to death for murder.\n\nOn December 15, 2017, Cleveland County District Judge Lori Walkley followed the jury's recommendation, and sentenced Nolen to death by lethal injection.\n\n"}
{"id": "5219411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5219411", "title": "Vice President of Iraq", "text": "Vice President of Iraq\n\nIraq has three vice presidents or deputy presidents, although a debate is ongoing about a political reform to abolish their posts.\n\nThe office of Vice-President was historically largely ceremonial but prestigious. In post-war Iraq, the Constitution of Iraq, in its \"Transitional Guidelines,\" creates a three-member Presidency (or Presidential) Council, consisting of the President of the Republic and two deputy presidents, who must act in unison. The Presidency Council had three members to accommodate Iraq's three largest groups: Sunni Muslim Arabs, Shiite Muslim Arabs, and the mostly Sunni Kurds. As a unit, the Presidency Council was meant to symbolize the unity of the nation. This arrangement is required by the constitution to continue until the Council of Representatives, enters its second set of sessions. At this point, the Presidency Council would be replaced by a solitary President of the Republic, who would have only one deputy, the Vice-President. In any case, the Presidency is appointed by the Council of Representatives.\n\nThe three-member arrangement was a hold-over from the Iraqi interim government and the Iraqi Transitional Government.\n\nOn 13 May 2011, three vice-presidents were elected. On July 11, 2011, Adil Abdul-Mahdi resigned after he had presented his resignation to President Jalal Talabani on May 30, 2011. \n\nOn September 2014, three new Vice Presidents were elected: former Prime Ministers Nouri al-Maliki and Ayad Allawi and former Speaker of Parliament Osama al-Nujaifi.\n\nOn August 11, 2015 the Council of Representatives approved the al Abadi government plan to abolish the posts of both Vice President and Deputy Prime Minister. Later, Osama al-Nujaifi filed a complaint against the decision, considering it to be against the Constitution. Also Nuri al-Maliki promised to cling to his post. On 10 October 2016, the three posts of Vice President were restored by the Supreme Court of Iraq which deemed their abolition unconstitutional.\n\nThe Ba'athist regime of Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr and Saddam Hussein also used the office of Vice President. However, the post was not as influential as the Vice Chairmen of the Revolutionary Command Council. Vice Presidents were appointed at the discretion of the President.\n\n"}
{"id": "56534017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56534017", "title": "Vice President of the Government of New Caledonia", "text": "Vice President of the Government of New Caledonia\n\nVice President of the Government of New Caledonia () is a political position in the Government of New Caledonia. According to the Nouméa Accord, Vice President in the collegial government system needs to come from a pro-independence party if the President comes from an anti-independence party.\n"}
