{"id": "5808462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5808462", "title": "1816 in archaeology", "text": "1816 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1816 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40908465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40908465", "title": "Affiliative conflict theory", "text": "Affiliative conflict theory\n\nAffiliative conflict theory (ACT) is a social psychological approach that encompasses interpersonal communication and has a background in nonverbal communication. This theory postulates that \"people have competing needs or desires for intimacy and autonomy\" (Burgoon, p. 30). In any relationship, people will negotiate and try to balance out their own behavioral acts of (approach and avoidance) to maintain a comfortable level of intimacy.\n\nAffiliative conflict theory (ACT), also referred to as equilibrium theory or model, was first introduced in the 1960s by Michael Argyle. His article \"Eye Contact, Distance and Affiliation\", co-authored with Janet Dean was published in \"Sociometry\" in 1965, and has been used greatly as the base line for ACT. Michael Argyle had a long distinguished career in which he advanced the field of social psychology. His work on nonverbal communication greatly developed this theory and his book \"The Psychology of Interpersonal Behavior\" became an international bestseller in 1967. Argyle's curiosity regarding if social skills were learned in the same way as manual skills led him to research interpersonal behavior. Throughout his life's work he had various associates (Argyle & Dean, 1965; Argyle & Lalljee & Cook, 1968, Argyle & Ingham, 1972; Argyle & Ingham, Alkema & McCallin, 1972); all of which worked to validate the theory through their focus on the relationship between visual behavior (nonverbal behavior) and interpersonal distance (Coutts, pg. 3). Visual behavior research studies deal with influence, and with attributions made by observers. This reflects psychological research on nonverbal cues.\n\nThere are numerous behaviors that fall under nonverbal involvement. The nonverbal includes distance, gaze, touch, body orientation, body lean, facial expressiveness, talking duration, interruptions, postural openness, relational gestures, head nods, and paralinguistic cues such as rate and tone, which are at least as important as the words spoken in communicating to others. One of the basic study of nonverbal communications that was tested is the study of temporal patterning which is defined as relation to events in the vocal-verbal channel, when the receiver looks for cues, responds to them, and interprets them, and other times when the same movement or configuration will be unnoticed or disregarded. There are also beliefs that some nonverbal involvement cues have been found to increase personal performance on tasks such as test, verbal encoding, and relationship building.\n\nAlong with nonverbal behavior, another basic concept to understand is immediacy. Immediacy is generally defined as the degree of directness and intensity of interaction between two entities, such as two people. \"Immediacy of body orientation is defined as the percentage of the duration of communicator-addressee interaction during which the communicator's median plane\" (i.e., the plane perpendicular to the communicator's chest) passes through the addressee's position. When discussing immediacy, you tend to look at the head orientation of a communicator towards his addressee or it may be defined as the percentage of the duration of communicator-addressee interaction during which the communicator's head is directed towards the addressee's position. Duration of interaction between two individuals is defined as the length of time during which the two individuals are in each other's presence.\n\nIn 1976, Argyle and Cook modified and extended their original theory after concluding only partial support for compensation.\n\nMany academic scholars have researched ACT. Joseph Cappella, Ira Firestone, and John Aiello are just a few scholars whose conclusions of ACT differed. The first scholar, Joseph Cappella, did thirty-six studies in his review that concluded that \"increased proximity leads to compensatory responses on distancing, gaze, posture, body orientation, bodily activity, verbal output, and the like\" (Burgoon, p. 33). His results also theorize that physical closeness create a discomfort in partners that then respond by \"increasing physical distance or psychological distance\" (Burgoon, p. 33) The second scholar, Ira Firestone is known for his research on Reconciling verbal and nonverbal models of dyadic communications. Firestone's conclusion was opposite to Cappella's. He concluded in one of his reviews that responses to spatial adjustments had various results. \"Spatial distance, posture, and visual behavior features of dyadic interaction appear to show complex interdependencies. Both facilitative and inhibitory relationships abound. Clearly, the conclusion that non-verbal approach by one party induces withdrawal by the other is unwanted\" (Burgoon, p. 33). The third scholar, John Aiello came to a more tempered conclusion. His studies reflected that compensation is more common in stable relationships rather than developing ones. He also stated that \"comfort-oriented models do not predict observable compensation as long as variations immediacy behaviors fall with in optimal distance range\" (Burgoon, p. 33). The different conclusions between these three scholars can only give a partial and inconsistent support of ACT, with proximity being the most consistent elicitor of compensation.\n\nFurther research has added the concepts of cognition and expectations however its \"reliance on the basic assumptions and elements of Act affirms its influential impact and some of the \"truths\" it has uncovered\" (Burgoon, pg. 38). According to Judy Burgoon the, \"most significant contributions have been the introduction of arousal or discomfort as a primary indicator of behavioral changes, and attention to compensation as one major interaction pattern in interpersonal communication\" (Burgoon, pg. 37).\n\nThe concept of compensation was first introduced and added to the theory by Larry Coutts and Frank Schneider in 1976 in their ACT article that investigated the intimacy equilibrium and compensation hypothesis. However, recent modifications of ACT, as seen in John Aiello and Donna Thompson's comfort model which came about in 1979, was at odds with ACT's basic premise; due to the conclusion that discomfort is not the trigger for compensation. Because \"discomfort is only activated when interaction behaviors become extreme\" (Burgoon, pg. 36). Another modification was done by Knowles (1980, 1989) whom introduced the rubric of field theory. One important contribution is that \"behavior is goal oriented and purposeful, not necessarily mindful (Burgoon, pg. 36) The environments impact on human behavior also added another addition to ACT, known as field theory. Field Theory shows, that approach and avoidance gradients draw people together and apart. Approach is the need and desires whereas avoidance comes from enduring features like the fear of rejection. In 1989, Knowles \"reconceptualization of ACT is that people feel discomfort when their internal approach and avoidance gradients are not equal\" (Burgoon, pg. 36). \"Knowles also allows for constant redefinition of gradieSnts and thus a fluctuating equilibrium level\" (Burgoon, pg. 37). The problems it creates for ACT is such that, if gradients fluctuate \"from moment to moment\" then accurate predictions appears limited\" (Burgoon, pg. 37). An interesting notion to take from these modifications is that \"even when we want to be intimate with another, the fear of being too intimate or being rejected (avoidance gradient) may lurk in the background as an influential factor determining behavior\" (Burgoon, pg. 37).\n\nThe affiliative conflict theory becomes complex when one considers that approach and avoidance preferences are not the same, for example; when two people have \"differing preferred levels of intimacy\" (Burgoon, pg. 31). When two interactants have differing preferred levels of intimacy, they must (consciously or unconsciously) negotiate their differences to arrive at an equilibrium or homeostasis level that is mutually acceptable. This level of equilibrium is known as the intimacy equilibrium point. Equilibrium is reached when individuals or dyads can maintain sufficient distance and immediacy, such that they are close enough to meet affiliative needs, while allowing each other privacy and autonomy. ACT modification to discuss the process of compensation, is utilized to restore equilibrium. Anxiety is an example of an intimate behavior that can come from a disturbed or unbalanced equilibrium level. Thus, equilibrium can only be established when the two people/dyads are able to negotiate and maintain a comfortable level of intimacy through their nonverbal interactions.\n\n\"Because the intimacy equilibrium is said to be a product of several interrelated behaviors, it is not clear as to the influence of such variables on the overall equilibrium level. That is, while a particular factor may affect interpersonal immediacy along one behavioral dimension (e.g., eye contact) this effect may be offset by a compensatory shift in immediacy along some other (unmeasured) behavioral dimension (e.g. body orientation or interpersonal distance). As a consequence, a change may occur in one behavioral dimension, although there would be little relative change in the equilibrium as a whole\" (Coutts, pg. 5.)\n\nAffiliative Conflict Theory thus proposes that there are two separate, but related; propositions that involve maintaining the balance of the intimacy equilibrium point. The first is the \"establishment of an equilibrium or balance of approach and avoidance forces reflected in the intensity of immediacy behaviors emitted by the interactants\" (Coutts, pg. 3). The second deals with \"compensatory changes in one or more of the immediacy behaviors following disruptions in the established equilibrium\" (Coutts, pg. 3). These propositions can also be explained as balanced and unbalanced.\n\nA balanced equilibrium is created when there is an increase in affiliative behavior, notably a decrease in avoidance. All nonverbal behaviors contribute to maintaining balance but researchers focus mostly on three nonverbal behaviors of intimacy and their relationship, which include eye contact, physical proximity and need for affiliation.\n\nIt is supposed that similar considerations apply to other types of behavior, which are linked with affiliative motivation. Thus, there have been many studies surrounding the equilibrium point of intimacy of conversation and of amount of smiling. The more these behaviors occur, the more affiliative motivation is satisfied, but if they go too far or are decreased, anxiety is created and an avoidance behavior is shown.\n\nAn unbalance is created when there is a decrease in affiliative behavior, notably increased avoidance, changes in one or more of the immediacy behaviors following disruptions in the established equilibrium. If equilibrium for intimacy is disturbed along one of its dimensions, attempts will first be made to restore it by adjusting the others. If this is not possible because all are held constant, or because the deviation is too extreme, the subject will feel uncomfortable. If the disturbance is in the direction of less intimacy, he/she will simply feel deprived of affiliative satisfactions. Another source of unbalance is communication apprehension (CA). CA constitute a mediating variable and is characterizes as apprehension as an internal feeling of considerable discomfort which leads to communication avoidance. Thus, persons who report high levels of CA experience more anxiety during an interaction than persons who report low levels of CA. Examples of a typical unbalance in response to the close approach of another is to compensate with gaze aversion, indirect body orientation, backing away from a touch, and increased distance. A person can use avoidance behavior that express a desire to resist what is considered an inappropriate increase in the level of intimacy for that particular interaction.\n\nResearch shows that gender plays an important role in ACT. As Argyle (1967) points out, females are socialized to have a higher affiliative orientation, which they may express through using more eye contact. However, other explanations can account for the higher use of mutual gaze by females. A higher affiliative orientation may increase the female's sensitivity and/or responsivity to social cues. Since the eyes are the prime source of information about another's attention, females that socializes in our culture would be expected to look more at the other person's eyes for this social information, thus increasing the amount of time a female dyad engages in eye contact, and perhaps (but not necessarily) increasing the mean length of mutual gaze for the dyad. The data show that the looking time in general shows an increase in the significance of the sex effect with age. Females may rely more on external cues in general, and insofar as the eyes of another are salient cues, the percentage of time in monitoring them should increase. \nInterpersonal distance was examined after a study about eye contact and mean length of mutual glance by Argyle and Ingham (1972) showed conflicting and reversal effects between males and females. In 1975, Russo conducted a study that focused on the eye-contact and distance relationship. In this study, 24 males and 24 females were drawn in same-sex pairs from kindergarten, third, and sixth grades and asked to \"try out some distances and tell (the researcher) how they like them\" (p. 499). Each participant sat and conversed for 2 minutes at each of the three distances. At each 2 minute interval the researcher asked the subjects how they liked talking at that particular distance. Russo found that the percentage of time engaged in contact (a) increased with distance, (b) was higher for females than males; and (c) did not significantly differ with friendship. In terms of the mean length of eye contact it: (a) did not significantly increase with interpersonal distance; (b) was higher for females than for males; and (c) was significantly greater for friends than nonfriends. Thus, the mean length of eye-contact appears to index affiliative tendencies, while the total amount of eye-contact does not.\n\n"}
{"id": "50554325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50554325", "title": "Aid for the Elderly in Government Institutions", "text": "Aid for the Elderly in Government Institutions\n\nAid for the Elderly in Government Institutions (AEGIS) was a British pressure group that campaigned to improve the care of older people in long-stay wards of National Health Service psychiatric hospitals. The group was founded by Barbara Robb in 1965, and was active until Robb's death in 1976.\n"}
{"id": "769307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=769307", "title": "Anne Sofie von Otter", "text": "Anne Sofie von Otter\n\nAnne Sofie von Otter (born 9 May 1955) is a Swedish mezzo-soprano. Her repertoire encompasses lieder, operas, oratorios and also rock and pop songs.\n\nVon Otter was born in Stockholm, Sweden. Her father was the diplomat Göran von Otter, a Swedish diplomat in Berlin during World War II. She grew up in Bonn, London and Stockholm. She studied in Stockholm and at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London, where her teachers included Vera Rozsa. She made her professional operatic début in 1983 at the Basel Opera, as Alcina in Haydn's \"Orlando paladino\". She made her Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, début in 1985 and her La Scala debut in 1987. Her Metropolitan Opera début was in December 1988 as Cherubino.\n\nHer recording of Grieg songs won the 1993 \"Gramophone\" Record of the Year, the first time in the award's history that it had gone to a song recording. In 2001, she released her album with Elvis Costello, \"For the Stars\", for which she won an Edison Award. She was awarded the Grammy Award for Best Classical Vocal Solo in 2015 for her album of French songs, \"Douce France\". She is a regular recital and recording partner with Swedish pianist Bengt Forsberg.\n\nIn 2006, von Otter sang the Evangelist in the premiere of Sven-David Sandström's \"Ordet – en passion\". Other work in contemporary music has included singing the role of The Woman in \"Senza Sangue\" of Péter Eötvös. In other media, she appeared in the film \"A Late Quartet\".\n\nIn 2007, she released an album of music written by composers imprisoned in the Nazi \"model\" ghetto of Theresienstadt concentration camp (also known as Terezin) prior to their transportation to the death camp of Auschwitz. She collaborated on this project with Christian Gerhaher (baritone) and chamber musicians. She has stated that the material has special personal meaning for her as her father had attempted unsuccessfully during the war to spread information that he had received from SS officer Kurt Gerstein about the Nazi death camps.\n\nIn 2016, von Otter sang Leonora in the world premiere of Thomas Adès' \"The Exterminating Angel\", and again in 2017 at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden. She created the principal role of Charlotte in Sebastian Fagerlund's 2017 opera \"Autumn Sonata\", based on the 1979 film by Ingmar Bergman at the Finnish National Opera in Helsinki conducted by John Storgårds.\n\nVon Otter was married to Benny Fredriksson until his suicide on March 17, 2018. He had been an actor and managing director of The Stockholm House of Culture, including the Stadsteatern. The couple has two children and live in Stockholm.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45374379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45374379", "title": "Archaeology of trade", "text": "Archaeology of trade\n\nThe archaeology of trade and exchange is a sub-discipline of archaeology that identifies how material goods and ideas moved across human populations. The terms “trade” and “exchange” have slightly different connotations: trade focuses on the long-distance circulation of material goods; exchange considers the transfer of persons and ideas.\n\nOne part of archaeology considers pre-modern societies. Markets, currency, craft production, ownership and concepts such as buying and selling had different meanings in those societies. Earlier economies were strongly defined by religious, ethnic and geographic constraints. Exchange could be used to strengthen social bonds instead of creating wealth. The archaeology of trade therefore includes the transfer of ideas and social practices in addition to the exchange of physical goods.\n\nThe archaeology of trade and exchange considers how trade influenced social development and power structures.\n\nThe theory and practice of the archaeology of trade and exchange have been influenced by several important schools of thought.\n\nThe field of political economy deals with the interplay between political institutions and economic activity. This interdisciplinary field has contributions from economics, political science and sociology. Archaeologists who study political economy focus on how political structure, leadership and administration affect economic activity and how the economy can affect the strength and organization of political institutions.\n\nEconomic anthropology is the study of the social context of economic transactions to explore the varied connections between culture and economy. Fields of research in economic anthropology include exchange, gift-giving and forms of currency. The study of economic anthropology also includes non-capitalist societies.\n\nImportant contributors to the field are listed below.\n\nPhilosopher and economist Karl Marx influenced the fields of political economy and economic anthropology. His ideas on labor, modes and means of production and social class related to the frameworks used to understand the creation and exercise of power. Anthropologists used Marx’s ideas to provide perspective on archaeological and anthropological data. Marx’s theories on how the production and consumption of goods relate to social and political power were useful to those studying the evolution of trade and exchange in ancient societies.\n\nKarl Polanyi, a 20th-century economic theorist, introduced the idea of substantivism. Substantivism argues that economies operate within distinct cultural contexts, rather than operating separately from culture. Polanyi introduced concepts to economic anthropology that remain important to describe the movements of goods and their link to power: reciprocity, redistribution and exchange.\n\nBronislaw Malinowski and Marcel Mauss contributed to economic anthropology on gift-giving. They independently studied its economics and the social and political importance, especially in non-capitalist cultures. Their work is important in the study of ancient trade and exchange as a reminder of the significance and complexity of the movement of goods in non-capitalist societies.\n\nAnthropologist George Dalton contributed to the early study of trade and exchange in non-capitalistic systems through his work on “primitive economies.” Dalton took part in a debate begun by Polanyi regarding “formal” versus “substantive” meanings of economy. The “formal” economy involves the mechanisms of trade and exchange based on rational decision-making, whereas the “substantive” economy is the process by which individuals subsist.\n\nApproaches taken to the study of the archaeology of trade and exchange can be organized in three groups: the scalar approach (focusing on a particular level of interaction); the examination of different types of trade; or through the study of a particular phase of the economy (such as production).\n\nWorld-systems theory and network theory are commonly-used analytical tools that study global trade and exchange.\nIn the 1970s, Immanuel Wallerstein proposed World-systems theory to study the unequal relationships between developed “core” countries and underdeveloped “periphery” countries. Because of its strong analytical power in connecting societies under a comprehensive framework, world-systems theory was adapted by both anthropologists and archaeologists, who used it to study ancient societies (even though Wallerstein himself never agreed to this). Christopher Chase-Dunn and Thomas D. Hall apply the model to a range of human societies, from sedentary forager hamlets to the capitalist global system.\n\nNetwork theory attempts to make sense of individual objects within a broad web of connection with other objects. In the 1950s, social scientists used this theory as a quantitative method for more accurate social analysis. This was known as social network theory and focused on the contact patterns of individuals and social groups. The connections between entities are “mapped out” to show the frequency and strength of connections across space and time, demonstrating the relative importance of various nodes.\n\nRegional approaches to trade and exchange generally take a meso-scalar focus: at the inter-regional (between) and the intra-regional (within) levels. Various approaches are used in both descriptive and explanatory frameworks of social systems and their transformation. These include peer polity interaction, interaction spheres, social network analysis and modified core-periphery models of Wallerstein’s world-systems theory. Peer polity interaction (PPI) was introduced by Colin Renfrew and John F. Cherry. PPI posits that regional interaction and competition can be drivers for social change. Polities, “the highest order sociopolitical unit in the region in question,” are considered autonomous from one another socio-politically, even though they may share aspects of trade, art, architecture and/or ideology. Through PPI, adjacent polities adopt or develop similar aspects of social complexity and archaeologists study how institutional features develop and how they are adopted. Interaction Spheres, developed by Joe Caldwell in 1964, examines how independent societies within and across regions could coherently interact within different institutional frameworks. Caldwell used the mortuary and ritual practices of the Hopewell culture of North America as a prime example of an interaction sphere. Like PPI, Interaction Spheres argues that interaction among different regional groups may leads to innovation in cultural traditions.\n\nTrade between households and trade within communities are both “local” scales of analysis that can play a major role in shaping both domestic economies and large-scale systems. Ordinary goods—often produced at the household-level—are a significant part of community sustainability. Moreover, the local economy may consume most of the daily activities for a community, thereby defining the identity of many ancient peoples. Study of the local economy may also highlight the role of marginalized groups (gender, class, etc.) that may have a significant impact in the economy. The study of household-level production and trade may also be used to extrapolate larger systems of trade and exchange.\n\nStaple or adornment goods move between individuals of the same or different groups by multiple modes. Those modes include those identified by Polanyi (reciprocity, redistribution and exchange) and market exchange.\n\nIn cultural anthropology, reciprocity is the non-market exchange of goods or labor ranging from barter to gift exchange. The act of giving creates a tacit commitment to provide a service or object in return at some future time.\n\nRedistribution concerns the distribution of power within a society. Within a chiefdom, the chief accumulates goods and resources from the population to later redistribute them according to local custom.\n\nExchange and—more significantly—market exchange involves specific places (marketplaces) where goods and services can be negotiated and purchased. Archaeologists argue that evidence reveals market exchange in pre-Industrial societies such as the Prehistoric Hohokam, the Aztecs and the Maya. Market economies have involved signature features such as commodities, set prices and regulating institutions.\n\nThe production, circulation and consumption of goods provide another way that ancient trade and exchange can be studied. Production concerns the activity by which ideas are materialized in utilitarian and ritual goods. In archaeology, production is most often associated with either the sources of specific materials or labor specialization. Circulation is the flow of products from the source or the place of manufacture toward locations with sufficient demand for that product. Consumption is the acquisition and use of products. These three components of the commodity chain may be studied separately or in tandem.\n\nSourcing involves identifying the characteristic properties of the raw materials used to fashion items in order to determine the original material source of an artifact. It helps to determine social, political and economic connections among groups. Pinpointing the locations of sources helps archaeologists analyze the distribution range of goods and/or commodities. In order for sourcing to be effective, something must distinguish the material source from similar sources. For materials such as obsidian, determining the source can be easy; while for others, such as flint and some metals, it is more difficult. Moreover, not all materials can provide good data for sourcing, such as organic remains. Analytical methods used for sourcing may include:\n\nAgent-based modeling (ABM) is the simulation of agents (humans and social systems) based on a series of specified inputs. It models how humans (agents) and societies respond to inputs and stresses. For example, archaeologists working on social interactions in the Roman world used ABM to understand how social exchange affected the development of Roman expansionism in different regions. Elsewhere, archaeologists working on human subsistence mechanisms modeled how economics affected social complexity in Eastern North America.\n\nGeographic information systems (GIS) provide an environment to model and measure the conditions by which spatial relationships develop and change. GIS software serves as an important tool to visualize such metrics. In Mexico, archaeologists used GIS models to examine transportation corridors between sites that prove useful in learning about trade relationships among polities through time. Archaeologists working in the Caribbean used GIS to model cultural landscapes to assess cultural and economic change in plantation societies. In the South American Andes, archaeologists used GIS to understand the exchange of the goods and ideologies of Chavín De Huantar.\n"}
{"id": "7157316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7157316", "title": "Attack rate", "text": "Attack rate\n\nIn epidemiology, the attack rate is the biostatistical measure of frequency of morbidity, or speed of spread, in an at risk population. It is used in hypothetical predictions and during actual outbreaks of disease. An at risk population is defined as one that has no immunity to the attacking pathogen which can be either a novel pathogen or an established pathogen. It is used to project the number of victims to expect during an epidemic. This aids in marshalling resources for delivery of medical care as well as production of vaccines and/or anti-viral and anti-bacterial medicines. The rate is arrived at by taking the number of new cases in the population at risk and dividing by the number of persons at risk in the population.\n\nformula_1\n\nRates are determined from the beginning of the outbreak to its end. The term should probably not be described as a rate because its time dimension is uncertain. While the duration of an epidemic can be predicted given other variables such as early intervention, it cannot be known in absolute terms. In epidemiology, a rate requires a defined unit change (in this instance, time) over which the rate applies. For this reason, it is often referred to as an attack ratio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1782101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1782101", "title": "Billy Yank", "text": "Billy Yank\n\nBilly Yank or Billy Yankee is the personification of the Northern states of the United States, or less generally, the Union during the American Civil War. The latter part of his name is derived from \"yankee\", a slang term for New Englanders. Political cartoonists used Billy Yank and his Confederate counterpart Johnny Reb to symbolize the combatants in the American Civil War of the 1860s.\n\nBilly Yank is usually pictured wearing a regulation Yankee wool uniform that included the fatigue blouse, a light-weight wool coat with an inside pocket and four brass buttons on the front, with a kepi-style forage cap made of wool broadcloth with a rounded, flat top, cotton lining, and leather visor.\n\nIn the universe of the DC Comics, the \"Spirit of America\" appeared first in human form as the Minuteman and then Brother Jonathan before splitting in two during the Civil War. After the war, the two halves of its essence (Johnny Reb and Billy Yank) recombined to form Uncle Sam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4875665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4875665", "title": "Capitoline Wolf", "text": "Capitoline Wolf\n\nThe Capitoline Wolf (Italian: \"Lupa Capitolina\") is a bronze sculpture depicting a scene from the legend of the founding of Rome. The sculpture shows a she-wolf suckling the mythical twin founders of Rome, Romulus and Remus. According to the legend, when Numitor, grandfather of the twins, was overthrown by his brother Amulius, the usurper ordered them to be cast into the Tiber River. They were rescued by a she-wolf who cared for them until a herdsman, Faustulus, found and raised them.\n\nThe age and origin of the Capitoline Wolf is controversial. The statue was long thought to be an Etruscan work of the 5th century BC, with the twins added in the late 15th century AD, probably by the sculptor Antonio Pollaiolo. However, radiocarbon and thermoluminescence dating has found that the wolf portion of the statue is likely to have been cast between 1021 and 1153. The Capitoline Wolf has been housed since 1471 in the Palazzo dei Conservatori on the Campidoglio (the ancient Capitoline Hill), Rome, Italy.\n\nThe sculpture is somewhat larger than life-size, standing high and long. The wolf is depicted in a tense, watchful pose, with alert ears and glaring eyes which are watching for danger. By contrast, the human twins – executed in a completely different style – are oblivious to their surroundings, absorbed by their suckling.\n\nThe she-wolf from the legend of Romulus and Remus was regarded as a symbol of Rome from ancient times. Several ancient sources refer to statues depicting the wolf suckling the twins. Livy reports in his \"Roman history\" that a statue was erected at the foot of the Palatine Hill in 295 B.C. Pliny the Elder mentions the presence in the Roman Forum of a statue of a she-wolf that was \"a miracle proclaimed in bronze nearby, as though she had crossed the Comitium while Attus Navius was taking the omens\". Cicero also mentions a statue of the she-wolf as one of a number of sacred objects on the Capitoline that had been inauspiciously struck by lightning in the year 65 BC: \"it was a gilt statue on the Capitol of a baby being given suck from the udders of a wolf.\" Cicero also mentions the wolf in \"De Divinatione\" 1.20 and 2.47.\n\nIt was widely assumed that the Capitoline Wolf was the very sculpture described by Cicero, due to the presence of damage to the sculpture's paw, which was believed to correspond to the lightning strike of 65 BC. The 18th-century German art historian Johann Joachim Winckelmann attributed the statue to an Etruscan maker in the 5th century BC, based on how the wolf's fur was depicted. It was first attributed to the Veiian artist Vulca, who decorated the Temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, and then re-attributed to an unknown Etruscan artist of approximately 480–470 BC. Winckelmann correctly identified a Renaissance origin for the twins; they were probably added in 1471 or later.\n\nDuring the 19th century, a number of researchers questioned Winckelmann's dating of the bronze. August Emil Braun, the secretary of the Archaeological Institute of Rome, proposed in 1854 that the damage to the wolf's paw had been caused by an error during casting. Wilhelm Fröhner, the Conservator of the Louvre, stated in 1878 that style of the statue was attributable to the Carolingian art period rather than the Etruscan, and in 1885 Wilhelm von Bode also stated that he was of the view that the statue was most likely a mediaeval work. However, these views were largely disregarded and had been forgotten by the 20th century.\n\nIn 2006, the Italian art historian Anna Maria Carruba and the Etruscologist Adriano La Regina contested the traditional dating of the wolf on the basis of an analysis of the casting technique. Carruba had been given the task of restoring the sculpture in 1997, enabling her to examine how it had been made. She observed that the statue had been cast in a single piece, using a variation of the lost-wax casting technique. This technique was not used in Classical antiquity; ancient Greek and Roman bronzes were typically constructed from multiple pieces, a method that facilitated high-quality castings, with less risk than would be involved in casting the entire sculpture at once. Single-piece casting was, however, widely used in the Middle Ages to mould bronze items that needed a high level of rigidity, such as bells and cannons. Carruba argues, like Braun, that the damage to the wolf's paw had resulted from an error in the moulding process. In addition, La Regina, who is the state superintendent of Rome's cultural heritage, argues that the sculpture's artistic style is more akin to Carolingian and Romanesque art than that of the ancient world.\n\nRadiocarbon and thermoluminescence dating was carried out at the University of Salento in February 2007 to resolve the question. The results revealed with an accuracy of 95.4 percent that the sculpture was crafted between the 11th and 12th century AD.\n\nIt is unclear when the sculpture was first erected, but there are a number of mediaeval references to a \"wolf\" standing in the Pope's Lateran Palace. In the 10th century \"Chronicon\" of Benedict of Soracte, the monk chronicler writes of the institution of a supreme court of justice \"in the Lateran Palace, in the place called the Wolf, viz, the mother of the Romans.\" Trials and executions \"at the Wolf\" are recorded from time to time until 1438.\n\nThe 12th-century English cleric Magister Gregorius wrote a descriptive essay \"De Mirabilibus Urbis Romae\" and recorded in an appendix three pieces of sculpture he had neglected: one was the Wolf in the portico, at the principal entrance to the Lateran Palace. He mentions no twins, for he noted that she was set up as if stalking a bronze ram that was nearby, which served as a fountain. The wolf had also served as a fountain, Magister Gregorius thought, but it had been broken off at the feet and moved to where he saw it.\n\nThe present-day Capitoline Wolf could not have been the sculpture seen by Benedict and Gregorius, if its newly attributed age is accepted, though it is conceivable that it could have been a replacement for an earlier (now lost) depiction of the Roman wolf. In December 1471 Pope Sixtus IV ordered the present sculpture to be transferred to the Palazzo dei Conservatori on the Capitoline Hill, and the twins were added some time around then. The Capitoline Wolf joined a number of other genuinely ancient sculptures transferred at the same time, to form the nucleus of the Capitoline Museum.\n\nThe image was favoured by Benito Mussolini, who cast himself as the founder of the \"New Rome\" and donated copies of the statue to various places around the world. To encourage American goodwill, he sent several copies of the Capitoline Wolf to U.S. cities. In 1929 he sent one replica for a Sons of Italy national convention in Cincinnati, Ohio. It was switched for another one in 1931, which still stands in Eden Park, Cincinnati. Another replica was given to the city of Rome, Georgia, the same year. A third copy went to Rome, New York in 1956 by Alfonso Felici, a veteran of World War II. Another ended up at North-Eastern Normal University, China, where ancient Greek and Roman history is studied.\n\nThe Capitoline Wolf was used on both the emblem and the poster for the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. The Roman football club A.S. Roma uses it in its emblem as well.\n\nThe Capitoline Wolf was used as the logo for Artie Ripp's record label Family Productions, which in 1971 released Billy Joel's first album as a solo artist, \"Cold Spring Harbor\". Due to contractual obligations, it continued to appear on numerous Joel albums even after he was subsequently signed to Columbia Records.\n\nThe programme of conservation undertaken in the 1990s resulted in an exhibition devoted to the \"Lupa Capitolina\" and her iconography.\n\nIn the 2009 film \"Agora\", set in 5th-century Alexandria, the Capitoline Wolf—complete with the del Pollaiolo twins—can be seen in the prefect's palace. This is visible in the scene before Hypatia's capture, directly behind her character.\nIn Rick Riordan's The Son of Neptune, Lupa is the wolf that trains all demigods who wish to enter Camp Jupiter. She trains Percy Jackson and is mentioned that she trained Jason Grace also.\n\nIn the first episode of the American television programme \"The Addams Family\", a mirror-image sculpture of the Capitoline Wolf is on display in the Addams's living room. It can be seen standing atop a table, just to the right of the main staircase.\n\nThe Boston Latin School uses an image on the cover of their agenda book as well as being the official school emblem.\n\nThe Capitoline Wolf is used in Romania and Moldova as a symbol of the Latin origin of its inhabitants and in some major cities there are replicas of the original statue given as a gift from Italy at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nThe Capitoline Wolf is reimagined in \"Look at Me (new Capitoline Wolf)\", a 2011 installation by Polish artist Paweł Wocial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31642300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31642300", "title": "Chest of Saint Simeon", "text": "Chest of Saint Simeon\n\nThe Chest of Saint Simeon or Saint Simeon's Casket () is a rectangular cedarwood sarcophagus in the shape of a \"chasse\", overlaid with silver and silver-gilt plaques, said to hold the relics of St Simon the God-receiver; it is located over the main altar in the Church of Saint Simeon in Zadar, Croatia. The chest, considered a masterpiece of medieval art and also a unique monument of the goldsmith's craft of the age, is one of the most interesting works in gold in Europe now under the protection of UNESCO. It was made by local goldsmiths to an Italian design between 1377 and 1380.\n\nThe cult of St. Simeon, the story of how the queen stole the finger of Zadar's patron saint, or \"gonfaloniero\" as the locals call it, and the donation of a magnificent shrine to atone for the stealing of the saint's finger illustrate not only the political aspect orchestrated by the Angevins amid the people's belief in the authenticity of Zadar's body over the one kept in Venice, but also the high level of development and quality in goldsmithing during the second half of the fourteenth century.\n\nThe top of the chest containing the mummified body of the silver-crowned bearded saint enclosed behind a sheet of transparent glass is elevated above the main altar and displayed to the public, as well as its interior full of precious gifts given by Elizabeth of Bosnia, every year on 8 October, at 8:30 a.m.\n\nEastern Roman emperors who were seated in Constantinople in the sixth century were not only expanding their collection of valuable works of art, but also relics of saints in order to be able to stand side by side with Rome's. So, between 565 and 568 AD the sarcophagus where the remains of St. Simeon were being kept was moved from Syria to Constantinople, where it stayed until the year 1203 when it was then shipped to Venice.\n\nAccording to legend, the tradition of the worship of St. Simeon at Zadar began after the arrival of a Venetian merchant there who was transporting the relics of the saint in a stone sarcophagus when his ship was caught in a storm off Zadar, on the Dalmatian coast. While the city repaired his ship, he secretly buried the sarcophagus in a cemetery nearby so as to keep it safe from any danger; soon after that he got very ill. He sought refuge at an inn at the head of Zadar's harbour, where monks began to treat him. Seeing that his medical condition had worsened, they took all of his documents and found an inscription hanging around his neck reporting the miraculous powers of the saint. Oddly enough, that same night, three rectors appeared to them in a dream and warned each one individually that the remains of the holy saint were really buried in that said cemetery. Early in the following morning, as they walked to the site where they expected to find that stone sarcophagus, they told one another about their vision and so realised that they all had shared the same dream. They got to the grave where the chest had been hidden and dug it out of the ground, unaware of the real powers of its content. Shortly after that, gossips about this story reported by the monks and miracles performed in the name of the saint began to spread around the region inciting to the locals to refuse to let his body leave Zadar.\n\nWhen the remains of St. Simeon first came to Zadar they were deposed in the cemetery of a suburban monastery (Church of the Virgin - \"Velika Gospa\"), which later became associated with the city's pilgrims hospice, until they were transferred to the sacristy of the female monastery of St. Mary Major, where they remained until its demolition to make room for the construction of the city walls in 1570. On 16 May 1632 they were transferred once more amid public rejoicing to a church consecrated to St. Stephen, the Martyr, and which subsequently came to be known as the Sanctuary of Saint Simeon the Righteous, the prophet of the Nunc Dimittis. Since then St. Simeon, one of the four patrons of Zadar, has been revered in the city.\n\nIn 1371, Elizabeth of Bosnia, daughter of Stephen II, Ban of Bosnia, and Queen of Hungary and Croatia as wife of one of the most powerful European rulers of his time, King Louis I, visited the city of Zadar. According to legend, during a religious mass, she furtively cracked off a piece of St. Simeon's finger and hid it in the breast of her dress, where it immediately began to decompose, a process which miraculously reverted itself when she returned the piece to the saint's hand. Confused by the appearing wound on her bosom and without being able to continue up to the point where she could safely exit from the church, most probably because of the maggots that infested the broken piece, she ran blindly through the aisle of the church only to find out that she would soon be morally forced to restore the piece back to its original place under the accusatory and inquisitive glances exchanged by the many noblemen who formed a circle around her.\nWhen Elizabeth finally left the church she promised to honour the saint by presenting the church with a gift ornated in gold that she later came to commission to the Milanese goldsmith Francesco di Antonio da Sesto (Francis of Milan), who was asked to create a paper model with drawings of all the details to be discussed and approved by the queen's representatives so that their legibility and presentation might be in accordance with the royal expectations and deep interest in the making of such precious shrine. The intricate carvings were dexterously executed between 1377 and 1380 and was assisted by Andrija Markov from Zagreb, Petar Blažev from Reča, Stejpan Pribičev and Mihovil Damjanov.\n\nIn 2007 the Archbishop of Zadar and the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem agreed that the Archdiocese would provide a piece of the body of the saint to the Patriarchate of Jerusalem to be venerated in the Church of the Katamon Monastery of St. Simeon. Arrangements were made with the Congregation of Divine Worship and Cult of Saints in Rome and the small silver reliquiary, constraining a particle measuring 5 x 2.5 cm and bearing the Latin inscription: \"Ex corporis Sancti Simeoni Iusti Zadar 7. octobris 2010\", was solemnly handed over to the representatives of the Orthodox Church during the celebration of Vespers in the eastern part of the historic quarters of Zadar.\n\nThe rectangular silver chest of Saint Simeon, standing 2.3 m above the ground on the main altar of the church of the same name, measures 1.92 m long by 62.5 cm wide and, including the 56 cm high saddle-shaped lid, 1.27 m high. The front side of the lid is dominated by the carved reclining figure of the saint dressed in a gown and cloak richly ornamented with plant motifs made by punching fastened on his breast by a clasp. The front panel, which unfolds by means of hinges located on the bottom displaying the saint's laid-down figure, measures 66.5 cm high. It is raised by the outstretched arms of four bronze angels forged from seventeenth century Turkish cannons that were seized in the waters of Zadar in 1648. Covered inside and outside with a thin lamina of 240 kg of pure silver and also a considerable quantity of gold, it shows intricate details carved on the cedar wood used to give shape to the chest. All free surface of the chest is filled in with more or less standard vine, leaves and winding rosettes of sinuate leaves ornamentations decorated with gold.\n\nThe front part of the chest displays enhanced relief compositions depicting scenes from the saint's early years as a preacher, death and ascension into heaven on the back of a virgin, as well as biblical and historical events of his time. The inside part contains a relief made by goldsmith Stjepan Martinič of Zadar representing the patron saints of the city in the background. The inside of the lid is magnificently illustrated with three miracles attributed to the saint. His holy monk-like figure and two sets of the arms of Anjou also appear in high relief on both the triangle areas of the lid. They are both richly decorated in the same manner together with the shield of Hungarian bars and the characteristic Angevin fleur-de-lis, a cloak and a helmet with a crown. Above the crowns rises an ostrich with outspread wings and a horseshoe in its beak. Around the coat of arms there are reliefs of acanthus leaves, and beside them the initials of the king: L.R. (Latin: \"Lodovicus Rex\").\nThe Latin inscription on the central panel on the back of the chest, which corresponds to the main composition on the front panel, bears the goldsmith's signature with Louis's coat of arms in the corners of the richly worked vine tracery that complements the relief. It is divided in two parts, being the larger with the main inscription in Gothic capital letters beaten in high relief: \"SYMEON: HI.C.IVSTVS.YEXVM.DE.VIRGINE.NATVM.VLNIS: QVI.TENVITHAC.ARCHA. PACE.QVIESCIT.HVNGARIE.REGINA.POTENS: ILLVSTRIS: ED.ALTA: ELYZABET.IUNIOR:QVAM.VOTO:CONTVLIT. ALMO.ANNO.MILLENO: TRECENO: OCTVAGENO.\" Below, angraved in stylized minuscule letters, appears the goldsmith's signature: \"hoc.opus.fecit: franciscus.d.mediolano.\"\n\nKnown in medieval Latin hexameters, the translation of the inscription reads as follows: \"Simeon the Righteous, holding Jesus, born of a virgin, in his arms, rests in peace in this chest, commissioned by the Queen of Hungary, mighty, glorious and majestic Elizabeth the Younger, in the year 1380. This is the work of Francis of Milan\".\n\nThe scenes are separated by columns surmounted by small heads of angels sculpted during the two-year restoration process started in 1630. The work was conducted by the goldsmiths Constantino Piazzalonga of Venice and Benedetto Libani of Zadar, who reduced the length of the chest by four and the width by three fingers.\n\nNote: The visual narrative of \"The Theft of the Finger\" and two other scenes located on the back part of the chest have recently been considered to be all connected. Such conclusion may differ from another line of thoughts who point to a longer narrative based on a chronological sequence of events, which begins with the scene \"The Boat in the Storm\", shifts from visual to written discourse in the reading of the Latin inscription on the back panel, and ends in the complementary scene \"The Death of Ban Kotromanić\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39416354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39416354", "title": "Comedy Masala", "text": "Comedy Masala\n\nComedy Masala is a venue for stand-up comedy located at Hero's, Circular Road, Singapore. Founded in September 2010 by Umar Rana, Comedy Masala offers a weekly stand-up comedy show featuring a mix of Singaporean and international comedians that attracts close to 200 fans every week and has hosted well-known comedians from around the world, including Butch Bradley, Wali Collins, Al Ducharme and Paul Ogata. Comedy Masala is one of the only venues that offers an open mic format in Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "33160572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33160572", "title": "Crusader Gold", "text": "Crusader Gold\n\nCrusader Gold is an archaeological adventure novel by David Gibbins. First published in 2006, it is the second book in Gibbins' Jack Howard series. It has been published in more than 20 languages and was a New York Times bestseller.\n\nFollowing a prologue set in AD 71 when the golden menorah from the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem is locked away in Rome, the novel picks up in present-day Turkey with marine archaeologist Jack Howard on a hunt for ancient treasures in the harbour of Istanbul, formerly Constantinople. One item not among the treasures thrown into the harbour when the Crusaders pillaged the city is the menorah, and Jack soon learns from colleagues Jeremy and Maria that it may have been stolen from Constantinople by Norse warrior Harald Hardrada during his service to the emperor of Constantinople and taken by him on his explorations of the New World.\n\nJack goes to the monastery at Iona in Scotland to see a priest who tells him that the Nazi Ahnenerbe were on the trail of the menorah in the 1930s. The priest is found gruesomely murdered, showing that there are present-day Nazis who are shadowing them. In Greenland Jack and his friend Costas dive inside an iceberg, where they find a perfectly preserved Viking ship burial containing one of Hardrada's warriors. They go to L'Anse aux Meadows, the Viking site in Greenland, where further clues lead them to the Yucatán in Mexico, where Hardrada and his men had a final standoff with the Maya. After a perilous dive into a cenote, Jack discovers the truth of Hardrada's last stand and the fate of the menorah, and he has his own final standoff with the latter-day Nazi and his henchmen who have been following him.\n\nThe book ends with a chapter-length Author's Note in which Gibbins details the historical and archaeological facts behind the fiction in the novel.\n\n"}
{"id": "42704183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42704183", "title": "Dedication of Nikandre", "text": "Dedication of Nikandre\n\nThe Dedication of Nikandre is a Greek marble sculpture, made approximately around 650 BCE, held in the National Archaeological Museum, Athens, Greece (Inv. 1). Nikandre, a woman from the island of Naxos, dedicated the statue in the temple of Artemis at Delos, the birthplace of Apollo and Artemis. The statue, which was found during archaeological excavation in the 19th century, is one of the earliest surviving korai, or statues of women, and displays one of the oldest inscriptions of Ancient Greek in stone. Its representation and its placement within the existing stylistic periods of Greek sculpture have become the subject of extensive scholarship. \n\nThéophile Homolle uncovered the statue amongst several other sculptural pieces in ditches while excavating around the sanctuary of Artemis in 1878. Homolle himself published slightly contradictory notes regarding the find spot of the pieces that make up Nikandre's dedication during the years following the discovery. As such, scholars have not been able to definitively place the location of Nikandre's dedication. On the basis of Homolle's notes, however, most agree that the statue was deposited in a ditch some 12 to 15 meters from the corner of the sanctuary of Artemis along with the pieces of several other statues. The purpose of this deposit is unclear, but the statues appear to have been broken before burial.\n\nOn the left side of the statue is the dedicatory inscription, one of the earliest surviving inscriptions of Greek in stone. It is incised vertically, in a manner known as boustrophedon. The original Greek is as follows: «Νικάνδρη μἀνέθεκεν (ε)κηβόλοι ἰοχεαίρηι Κόρη Δεινοδίκηο τῶ Ναησίο ἒησοχος ἀλήον Δεινομένεος δὲ κασιγνέτη Φηράησο δ᾽ ἂλοχος ν[ῦν].» An English translation, provided by G. M. A. Richter, is: \"Nikandre dedicated me to the goddess, far-shooter of arrows, Nikandre, the daughter of Deinodikos of Naxos, distinguished among women, sister of Deinomenes and wife of Phraxos.\"\n\nFrom this inscription, we know the name and gender of the dedicant, Nikandre, as well as some vague hint of her intention (to please the goddess). In addition to defining herself by her relationship to her father (Deinodikos), husband (Phraxos), and brother (Deinomenes), she refers to herself as \"distinguished among women\", claiming some amount of glory and emphasizing her reputation in her community. Though the inscription may imply that the statue was made on the island of Naxos, where Nikandre's family resided (an implication corroborated by the type of stone used to make the statue), it is unclear who the sculptor was or where he lived.\n\nScholars have yet to reach a consensus regarding whom the statue represents. Although it is tempting to initially assume that a dedicant, such as Nikandre, would commission a statue in her own likeness, the number of surviving female statues with male dedicants indicates that while possible in some situations, this could not be the general rule.\n\nIn an article published three years after the discovery, Homolle proposed that Nikandre's dedication as well as the other statues found with it each represent Artemis. For most \"korai\", the prevailing assumption is that they represent Persephone, but they could represent whichever goddess was worshiped at the sanctuary where the statues were dedicated, including Artemis, Hera, Athena, Demeter, and even nymphs. However, as G. M. A. Richter has pointed out, rarely are the individual korai accompanied by the appropriate attributes and objects that cult statues usually display, such as Athena's \"aegis\" on her statue in the Parthenon. That being said, Nikandre's statue does have small holes in the center of its hands. It is possible that the sculptor could have made these holes to attach objects associated with Artemis, such as a bow, to the statue's hands.\n\n\"Korai\" could alternatively represent the priestesses of those goddesses and sanctuaries. This interpretation has found quite a following among scholars. For example, John Boardman and Nigel Spivey both posit that the statue represents a priestess of Artemis. Opponents to this theory argue that the youthful depiction of the \"korai\" is generally not associated with the image and the stature of a priestess, though there are instances of young maidens serving as priestesses (e.g. the worship of Artemis at Brauron).\n\nOne of the major controversies regarding Nikandre's dedication revolves around its placement within preexisting categories of Greek sculpture, specifically the Daedalic style in the 7th century BCE and the Greek Monumental Period that followed.\n\nThe Daedalic style, exhibited by followers of the mythological inventor Daedalus (the so-called Daidalidai, such as Endios, Dipoino, Skyllis, Tektaios, \"et al.\"), flourished between 675 and 600 BCE. The following features characterize the style:\nNikandre's dedication conforms to many of these stylistic features, with its strict frontality (the statue faces straight forward without any twisting of the body), its rigid and unrevealing dress (a \"peplos\" belted at the waist), and its neatly combed hair, which hangs in tresses on either side of the figure's head.\n\nThe Greek Monumental Period (660–650 BCE) was marked by life-sized sculpture, the origins of which several scholars trace to Greek cultural interaction with Egypt and Mesopotamia. In fact, Homolle notes in his initial publication regarding the sculpture that \"the hair is spread out on the shoulders, pretty much in the manner of the hairstyle of the Egyptians - which at first sight gives are statue the look of an Egyptian work\", although he later insists that such similarities are purely coincidental. Nikandre's dedication, which stands tall and thick, is one of the earliest whole surviving life-size marble sculptures, meaning that many have attributed it to the start of this new period of Archaic monumental sculpture.\n\nUltimately, this conflict between the statue's dating has little impact on the meaning of the dedication; it affects merely whether we interpret the statue as the end of one era or the beginning of the next. In the end, such eras are classifications imposed by modern archaeologists and scholars, and may not accurately reflect what was presumably a fluid development of the style and craft of Ancient Greek sculpture.\n\nIn discussing the \"problem of description\" in archaeology, A. A. Donohue has shown that historically, most scholars have described Nikandre's dedication in negative terms. Donohue holds that the \"objective\" description of archaeological objects has been anything but. Through an evaluation of the historical, ethnic, and psychological context of scholarly criticisms of the statue, Donohue illustrates how the reception of Nikandre's dedication today should not necessarily build on previous descriptions, which have often scorned the flat nature of the work and the heavy dress as poor craftsmanship. In comparison with later Hellenistic sculpture, which is characterized by a progressively idealistic treatment of the human form, Nikandre's dedication, with its heavy garment and blockish torso, appeared to many early scholars as wholly unfeminine. In contrast, Donohue argues that the heavy clothing and stance of the figure were meant to convey the respectability and stature of the female within her society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34514736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34514736", "title": "Delayed release (linguistics)", "text": "Delayed release (linguistics)\n\nIn feature-based phonology, delayed release is a distinctive feature representing how quickly the closure in a non-continuant consonant is released. It separates stops, which are [−delayed release], from affricates, which are [+delayed release], both of which are [−sonorant, −continuant]. \n"}
{"id": "12725375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12725375", "title": "Donald Rayfield", "text": "Donald Rayfield\n\n(Patrick) Donald Rayfield (born February 1942, Oxford) is professor of Russian and Georgian at Queen Mary University of London. He is an author of books about Russian and Georgian literature, and about Joseph Stalin and his secret police. He is also a series editor for books about Russian writers and \"intelligentsia\". He translated Georgian and Russian poets and prose writers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30056639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30056639", "title": "Error analysis (linguistics)", "text": "Error analysis (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, according to J. Richard et al., (2002), an error is the use of a word, speech act or grammatical items in such a way it seems imperfect and significant of an incomplete learning (184). It is considered by Norrish (1983, p. 7) as a systematic deviation that happens when a learner has not learnt something, and consistently gets it wrong. However, the attempts made to put the error into context have always gone hand in hand with either Language Learning and Second Language acquisition processes, Hendrickson (1987:357) mentioned that errors are ‘Signal’ that indicate an actual Learning process taking place and that the learner has not yet mastered or shown a well-structured competence in the target language.\n\nAll the definitions seemed to stress either on the systematic deviations triggered in the language learning process, or its indications of the actual situation of the language learner themselves which will later help the monitor be it an applied linguist or particularly the language teacher to solve the problem respecting one of the approaches argued in the Error Analysis (Anefnaf 2017), the occurrence of errors doesn’t only indicate that the learner has not learned something yet, but also it gives the linguist the idea of whether the teaching method applied was effective or it needs to be changed.\n\nAccording to Corder (1976) errors are significant of three things, first to the teacher, in that they tell him, if he or she undertakes a systematic analysis, how far towards that goal the learner has progressed and, consequently, what remains for him to learn. Second, they provide the researcher with evidence of how language is learned or acquired, and what strategies or procedures the learner is employing in his discovery of the language. Third (and in a sense this is their most important aspect) they are indispensable to the learner himself, because we can regard the making of errors as a device the learner uses in order to learn (p. 167). The occurrence of errors is merely signs of ‘’the present inadequacy of our teaching methods’’ (Corder 1976, p. 163).\n\nThere have been two schools of thought when it comes to errors analysis and philosophy, the first one, according to Corder (1967) linked the errors commitment with the teaching method arguing that if the teaching method was adequate, the errors would not be committed, the second school believed that we live in an imperfect world and that errors correction is something real and the applied linguist cannot do without it no matter what teaching approach they may use.\n\nChomsky (1965) made a distinguishing explanation of competence and performance on which, later on, the identification of Mistakes and Errors will be possible, Chomsky stated that ‘’We thus make a fundamental distinction between competence (the speaker-hearer's knowledge of his language) and performance (the actual use of language in concrete situations)’’ ( 1956, p. 4). In other words, errors are thought of as indications of an incomplete learning, and that the speaker or hearer has not yet accumulated a satisfied language knowledge which can enable them to avoid linguistics misuse. Relating knowledge with competence was significant enough to represent that the competence of the speaker is judged by means of errors that concern the amount of linguistic data he or she has been exposed to, however, performance which is the actual use of language does not represent the language knowledge that the speaker has. According to J. Richard et al (2002) people may have the competence to produce an infinitely long sentence but when they actually attempt to use this knowledge (to “perform”) there are many reasons why they restrict the number of adjectives, adverbs, and clauses in any one sentence (2002, 392).\n\nThe actual state of the speaker somehow involves and influences the speaker’s performance by either causing a good performance or mistakes. Thus, it is quite obvious that there are some kind of interrelationship between competence and performance; somehow, a speaker can perform well if he or she has had already a satisfied linguistics knowledge. As a support to this, Corder (1967) mentioned that Mistakes are of no significance to ‘’the process of language learning’’ (P. 167).\n\nBefore the rise of Error Analysis approach, Contrastive Analysis had been the dominant approach used in dealing and conceptualizing the learners’ errors in the 1950s, this approach had often gone hand in hand with concept of L1 Interference and precisely the Interlingual effect (Anefnaf Z. 2017), it claimed that the main cause of committing errors in the process of second language learning is the L1, in other words, the linguistic background of the language learners badly affects the production in the target language.\n\nX. Fang and J. Xue-mei (2007) pointed out that Contrastive analysis hypothesis claimed that the principal barrier to second language acquisition is the interference of the first language system with the second language system and that a scientific, structural comparison of the two languages in question would enable people to predict and describe which are problems and which are not. Error Analysis approach overwhelmed and announced the decline of the Contrastive Analysis which was only effective in phonology. and According to J. Richard et al. (2002) EA developed as a branch of Linguistics in the 1960s and it came to light to argue that the mother tongue was not the main and the only source of the errors committed by the learners. In addition, Hashim, A. (1999) mentioned that the language effect is more complex and these errors can be caused even by the target language itself and by the applied communicative strategies as well as the type and quality of the second language instructions.\n\nThe aim of EA according to J. Richard et al. (2002) is, first, to identify strategies which learners use in language learning, in terms of the approaches and strategies used in both of teaching and learning. Second, to try to identify the causes of learners’ errors, that is, investigating the motives behind committing such errors as the first attempt to eradicate them. Third, to obtain information on common difficulties in Language Learning, as an aid to teaching or in the preparation of the teaching materials,\n\nThe two major causes of error, coined by the Error Analysis approach, are the Interlingual error which is an error made by the Learner’s Linguistic background and Native language interference, and the Intralingual error which is the error committed by the learners when they misuse some Target Language rules, considering that the error cause lies within and between the target language itself and the Learners false application of certain target language rules.\n\nError analysis in SLA was established in the 1960s by Corder and colleagues. Error analysis (EA) was an alternative to contrastive analysis, an approach influenced by behaviorism through which applied linguists sought to use the formal distinctions between the learners' first and second languages to predict errors. Error analysis showed that contrastive analysis was unable to predict a great majority of errors, although its more valuable aspects have been incorporated into the study of language transfer. A key finding of error analysis has been that many learner errors are produced by learners making faulty inferences about the rules of the new language.\n\nError analysts distinguish between errors, which are systematic, and mistakes, which are not. They often seek to develop a typology of errors. Error can be classified according to basic type: omissive, additive, substitutive or related to word order. They can be classified by how apparent they are: \"overt\" errors such as \"I angry\" are obvious even out of context, whereas \"covert\" errors are evident only in context. Closely related to this is the classification according to \"domain\", the breadth of context which the analyst must examine, and \"extent\", the breadth of the utterance which must be changed in order to fix the error. Errors may also be classified according to the level of language: phonological errors, vocabulary or lexical errors, syntactic errors, and so on. They may be assessed according to the degree to which they interfere with communication: \"global\" errors make an utterance difficult to understand, while \"local\" errors do not. In the above example, \"I angry\" would be a local error, since the meaning is apparent.\n\nFrom the beginning, error analysis was beset with methodological problems. In particular, the above typologies are problematic: from linguistic data alone, it is often impossible to reliably determine what kind of error a learner is making. Also, error analysis can deal effectively only with learner production (speaking and writing) and not with learner reception (listening and reading). Furthermore, it cannot account for learner use of communicative strategies such as avoidance, in which learners simply do not use a form with which they are uncomfortable. For these reasons, although error analysis is still used to investigate specific questions in SLA, the quest for an overarching theory of learner errors has largely been abandoned. In the mid-1970s, Corder and others moved on to a more wide-ranging approach to learner language, known as interlanguage.\n\nError analysis is closely related to the study of error treatment in language teaching. Today, the study of errors is particularly relevant for focus on form teaching methodology.\n\nIn second language acquisition, error analysis studies the types and causes of language errors. Errors are classified according to:\n\nLinguists have always been attempting to describe the types of errors committed by the language learners, and that is exactly the best way to start with, as it helps out the applied linguist to identify where the problem lies. According to Dulay et al. (1982) errors take place when the learner change the surface structure in a particularly systematic manner (p. 150), thus, the error, no matter what form and type it is, represent a damage at the level of the target language production.\n\nErrors have been classified by J. Richard et al. (2002) into two categories. The Interlingual Error and the Intralingual Error, those two elements refer respectively to the negative influence of both the speaker’s native language, and the target language itself.\n\nInterlingual error is caused by the interference of the native language L1 (also known as interference, linguistic interference, and crosslinguistic influence), whereby the learner tends to use their linguistic knowledge of L1 on some Linguistic features in the target language, however, it often leads to making errors. The example, provided by J. Richard et al. (2002) ‘’ the incorrect French sentence Elle regarde les (“She sees them”), produced according to the word order of English, instead of the correct French sentence Elle les regarde (Literally, “She them sees”). (P. 267) shows the type of errors aroused by the negative effect of the native language interference.\n\nIntralingual error is an error that takes place due to a particular misuse of a particular rule of the target language, it is, in fact, quite the opposite of Interlingual error, it puts the target language into focus, the target language in this perspective is thought of as an error cause. Furthermore, J. Richard, et al. (2002) consider it as one which results from ‘’faulty or partial’’ learning of the target language. (p.267) thus the intralingual error is classified as follow:\n\nOvergenerations: in Linguistic, overgeneralizations error occur when the speaker applies a grammatical rule in cases where it doesn’t apply. Richard et al, (2002) mentioned that they are caused ‘’by extension of target language rules to inappropriate context.’’ (P.185). this kind of errors have been committed while dealing with regular and irregular verbs, as well as the application of plural forms. E.g. (Tooth == Tooths rather than teeth) and (he goes == he goed rather than went).\n\nSimplifications: they are resulting from learners producing simpler linguistic forms than those found in the target language, in other words, learners attempt to be linguistically creative and produce their own poetic sentences/utterances, they may actually be successful in doing it, but it is not necessary the case, Corder (as cited in Mahmoud 2014:276) mentioned that learners do not have the complex system which they could simplify. This kind of errors is committed through both of Omission and addition of some linguistic elements at the level of either the Spelling or grammar. A. Mahmoud (2014) provided examples based on a research conducted on written English of Arabic-speaking second year University students:\n\n\nDevelopmental Errors: this kind of errors is somehow part of the Overgeneralizations, (this later is subtitled into Natural and developmental learning stage errors), D.E are results of normal pattern of development, such as (come = comed) and (break = breaked), D.E indicates that the learner has started developing their linguistic knowledge and fail to reproduce the rules they have lately been exposed to in target language learning.\n\nInduced errors: as known as Transfer of Training, errors caused by misleading teaching examples, teachers, sometimes, unconditionally, explain a rule without highlighting the exceptions or the intended message they would want to convey. J. Richard et al. (2002) provided an example that occurs at the level of teaching prepositions and particularly ‘’ at ‘’ where the teacher may hold up a box and say ‘’ \"I am looking at the box ‘’,\" the students may understand that ‘’ \"at ‘’\" means \"‘’ under ‘’,\" they may later utter ‘’ the cat is at the table ‘’ instead of the cat is under the table.\n\nErrors of avoidance: these errors occur when the learner fail to apply certain target language rules just because they are thought of to be too difficult.\n\nErrors of overproduction: in the early stages of language learning, learners are supposed to have not yet acquired and accumulated a satisfied linguistic knowledge which can enable them to use the finite rules of the target language in order to produce infinite structures, most of the time, beginners overproduce, in such a way, they frequently repeat a particular structure.\n\nAs we have mentioned before in our theoretical part that the four basic skills of a language are the speaking/writing/reading/listening, these skills are usually used to test the learning development. Moreover, we decided to make this question for the sake of knowing where the Moroccans’ English learning difficulties at the very beginning of the process lie. However, and for the first time, we gave the participants to cross more than one choice because we were sure that, beginners find difficulties at many levels, and the results were:\n\nThe results indicate that 54 participants have encountered difficulties at the level speaking, and 44 found writing skill difficult to develop, and the difficulties at the level of listening were encountered by 33 of the participants, and lastly, 13 goes to the reading skill.\n\nThese results enable us to conclude that Moroccans have problems at the level of the production in the process of English Learning, we can apparently notice that speaking/writing are the most frequent problem that a huge number of the participants have had, so that applied linguists along with teachers should innovate new techniques that primarily focus on improving the production of the English Learners in Morocco.\n\nThe question was thoroughly chosen as it will either approve or deny the approach of Error Analysis in our community, Morocco, however, Error Analysis claims that the causes of the Errors commitment do not only lie in the target language, we tended to ask the participants indirectly about what was the causes of their committing errors, whether it was the L1, L2 or Both and the results were as follow:\n\nThe results have shown that 43% of the participants thought that both of the L1 and L2 are the causes of the results of the errors they have made, and after that comes the native language alone as the source of the errors according to the perspective of 37% of the participants, and, lastly, the target language is considered by 20% of them as the only source of errors.\n\nThe results, somehow, go hand in hand with the approach of error analysis, they indicate that the errors analysis approach is actually applicable to the Moroccan Community, thus, while trying to reduce and get rid of the problems predicted through the systematic comparison between L1 and L2, the applied Linguists should also focus on the complexity and the false application of the linguistic elements within and between the target language as well.\n\nAfter identifying the error and its cause, the major part, which is correcting it, takes place. However, this question has to do with the error correction time preferred by the learners themselves, whether immediate or delayed ones. The results were as follow:\n\nthe results indicate 72% of the participants prefer being corrected immediately corrected, yet only 28% see that delayed ones would be better.\n\nImmediate corrections can annoy the learners whose personality is not strong enough to perceive corrections as tools which enable them to improve and develop either the accuracy or fluency. However, the fact that Moroccans, through our survey, seemed to prefer immediate corrections which may be thought of as indication of several interpretations. First of all, Moroccans’ personality while learning English is probably strong enough to handle the interruptions. Second of all, Moroccans, maybe, do not feel ashamed of making errors in English, which is actually just the second foreign language in Morocco, and, finally, Moroccans may view that immediate corrections simply more effective than delayed ones.\n\nThis question has to do with the second part of the correction situation which is the correction manner, we tended to know how the participants would like to be corrected and how they would like to fix the errors. However, we provided the participants with three choices; Self-correction correction, peer correction and teacher correction. And the results were as follow:\n\nThe results might have been anticipated, 53% of English Learners prefer teacher correction, 26% of them prefer Self-correction, and 21% prefer Peer Corrections.\n\nThese results can only show that students trust more their teacher than both of their classmates and themselves, and since that Self-correction is considered to be the most effective one as we have mentioned in our theoretical part. Consequently, teachers should first teach their students how to properly correct their errors and mistakes, and, in the meanwhile, building up trust between the students. However, all the three kind of corrections should be set together in order to eradicate and get rid of the errors\n\nAccording to linguist Corder, the following are the steps in any typical EA research:\ncollection of errors:\nthe nature and quantity of errors is likely to vary depending on whether the data consist of natural, spontaneous language use or careful, elicited language use.\n\nCorder (1973) distinguished two kinds of elicitation:\"clinical\" and \"experimental\" elicitation.\nclinical elicitation involves getting the informant to produce data of any sort, for example by means of general interview or writing a composition.\nexperimental elicitation involves the use of special instrument to elicit data containing the linguistic features such as a series of pictures which had been designed to elicit specific features.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13046114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13046114", "title": "Francis Skaryna Belarusian Library and Museum", "text": "Francis Skaryna Belarusian Library and Museum\n\nFrancis Skaryna Belarusian Library and Museum in London, England, is the only library outside Belarus to collect exclusively in the field of Belarusian studies and its collection is the most comprehensive in this field in Western Europe. The library is an independent institution owned by a charitable trust. It is located at 37 Holden Road, North Finchley, London. The library is named after Francysk Skaryna, a Belarusian and East-Slavonic publishing pioneer.\n\nCurrently, the book collection is estimated to contain over 30,000 volumes, among them over 20 printed before 1800. The strongest areas of the collection are history, literature, language, religion, folklore, local lore, bibliography, music and art. All standard reference works are available. A collection of expatriate publications, both books and periodicals, is fairly comprehensive. New publications from Belarus are being purchased regularly, as well as all important Belarus-related works appearing abroad in any language. Most of books are in Belarusian language, a fair number in Russian and Polish, fewer in German, French and other languages. The library receives over 40 current periodicals from Belarus and abroad. The serials collection has over 200 titles; some of them are rare pre-1939 publications. The cartographic collection consists of over 100 maps from the sixteenth century onwards. The collection of Belarusian music records on LPs is comprehensive; more recent records on cassettes and CDs are collected episodically, with the emphasis on folk, rock and classical music. The archive is extensive; it is the least studied area of the library collection. It contains Church documents of the 18 and 19th centuries, materials dating from the period of the Belarusian Democratic Republic (1918), archives of Belarusian organisations and personalities in exile.\n\nThe history of the Library collection began with the establishment of the Belarusian Catholic Mission in London in 1947 and its move to Marian House on Holden Avenue in the following year. There, a small (two to three hundred) but valuable collection of Belarusian books brought to England by Fr Česlaus Sipovič was housed in the southward-facing room on the first floor, immediately above the Mission's chapel. The Library served as a study centre and meeting place for the student associations \"Žyćcio\" and \"Ruń\", and was used by a number of scholars interested in Belarusian heritage.\n\nIn the following decade, the book collection increased tenfold and by 1957 was supplemented by subscriptions to all the main periodicals appearing in the BSSR and Belarusian diaspora. In 1958 it received a name \"Bibliotheca Alboruthena\". In the same year, Fr Leo Garoshka moved from Paris to join the Belarusian Catholic community in London. He brought with him an excellent private library, which included a number of rare books published in western Belarus before the Second World War. This collection was added to the \"Bibliotheca Alboruthena\" making it the largest Belarusian library in western Europe. Frequently, the library was receiving further collections and items from visitors and Belarusians around the world. When in 1960 Fr Česlaus Sipovič was appointed Bishop and Apostolic Visitor of Belarusians in 1960, he was succeeded by Fr Leo Garoshka as the \"Bibliotheca Alboruthena\"'s librarian. In 1960s, there was made the first attempt to catalogue the collection.\n\nIn 1968 the book collection was over 6,500 volumes and growing on the account of developing interest to the Belarusian Studies in British universities. In these circumstances it was decided to purchase a whole building to house the library collection (except the religious books not relevant to the Belarusian studies), its archive, as well as the small museum housed, since 1967, in the adjusted building of the St Cyril's Belarusian school.\n\nThe library was formally opened on 15 May 1971. Before that, in January 1971, Fr Alexander Nadson assumed the role of librarian instead of Fr Leo Garoshka appointed Director of the Belarusian service of the Vatican Radio. Initially the library was directed by a Board of Governors. In 1979, the Library was registered as a Charitable Trust governed by a Board of Trustees appointed from among members of the Belarusian Catholic (Fr Alexander Nadson, Fr Felix Žurnia) and Orthodox (Fr J. Piekarski) clergy, representatives of the Belarusian community in Britain (P. Asipovich, J. Dominik, J. Michaluk) and British scholars with a special interest in Belarusian studies (Jim Dingley, Arnold McMillin, Guy Picarda). Bishop Česlaus Sipovič remained its Chair until his death in 1981; he was succeeded by Fr Alexander Nadson. Peter Mayo was appointed a Trustee to succeed Fr Žurnia who died in 1982.\n\nThe institution was conceived as a reference library for supporting Belarus-related research; its chief aim was defined as \"to collect all material, both in printed and manuscript forms, relating to Byelorussia, and to make it accessible to all those interested in any aspect of Byelorussian studies\". By 1991, it acquired over 12,000 titles with an annual increase of 300-400. It was receiving practically all Belarusian publications, as well as those relating to Belarus, which appeared in BSSR, Poland and the West. In 1990, the Library established an exchange agreement with the Belarusian Academy of Sciences Library, Minsk, which allowed it to receive duplicate copies of publications of the 1920s and 1930s - otherwise unobtainable - in exchange for expensive scholar publications from the West. Its holdings were also enriched considerably by systematic search for old and out-of-print publications and by numerous gifts and bequests from various benefactors. Most books were in Belarusian, but with a considerable number of works in other languages, in particular Polish and Russian. An extensive collection of microfilms and microfiche was also acquired. For the large part of 1990s and 2000s, Prof Adam Maldzis (Minsk) singlehandedly supplied the Library with books and periodicals appearing in Belarus. This was the period of booming publishing in Belarus; eventually, it became impossible to collect all Belarus-related publications appearing worldwide.\n\nThe library has organised several international seminars and conferences in Belarusian studies.\nAs the health of Fr Alexander Nadson, the long-standing head of the Board of Trustees and primary keeper of the institution, started deteriorating, the Francis Skaryna Belarusian Library and Museum entered the period of decline. It was removed from the list of charitable organisations in 2011 for the lack of activities. In 2014, the Board of Trustees reconvened to revive the institution and ensure its future. The Mission Statement and Aims were adopted revising, for the first time since 1971, the initial aims of the institution: in addition to collecting and preservation of the Belarusian cultural heritage, and supporting the Belarusian studies - to contribute to the life of the Belarusian community in Britain and encourage interest in Belarus among the British public. In 2015, as a confirmation of its revival and important place in the life of the British society, the institution received a new charity registration.\n\nSince then, it began a programme of digitisation of its most valuable and rare items, series of events and collaborative working with other institutions in Belarus and other countries.\n\nIn late 2016, the Church of St Cyril of Turau and All the Patron Saints of the Belarusian People has been built next to the Francis Skaryna Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46149", "title": "GLONASS", "text": "GLONASS\n\nGLONASS (, ; ; transliteration \"\"), or \"Global Navigation Satellite System\", is a space-based satellite navigation system operating in the radionavigation-satellite service. It provides an alternative to GPS and is the second navigational system in operation with global coverage and of comparable precision.\n\nManufacturers of GPS navigation devices say that adding GLONASS made more satellites available to them, meaning positions can be fixed more quickly and accurately, especially in built-up areas where the view to some GPS satellites may be obscured by buildings. It is also more suitable for use in high latitudes (north or south).\n\nDevelopment of GLONASS began in the Soviet Union in 1976. Beginning on 12 October 1982, numerous rocket launches added satellites to the system until the constellation was completed in 1995. After a decline in capacity during the late 1990s, in 2001, under Vladimir Putin's presidency, the restoration of the system was made a top government priority and funding was substantially increased. GLONASS is the most expensive program of the Russian Federal Space Agency, consuming a third of its budget in 2010.\n\nBy 2010, GLONASS had achieved 100% coverage of Russia's territory and in October 2011, the full orbital constellation of 24 satellites was restored, enabling full global coverage. The GLONASS satellites' designs have undergone several upgrades, with the latest version being GLONASS-K2, scheduled to enter service in 2019. By 2040 a group of communications and navigational satellite is announced to be deployed. The task also includes the delivery to the Moon of a series of spacecraft for orbital research and the establishment of a global communications and positioning system. \n\nGLONASS is a global satellite navigation system, providing real time position and velocity determination for military and civilian users. The satellites are located in middle circular orbit at altitude with a 64.8 degree inclination and a period of 11 hours and 15 minutes. GLONASS' orbit makes it especially suited for usage in high latitudes (north or south), where getting a GPS signal can be problematic. The constellation operates in three orbital planes, with eight evenly spaced satellites on each. A fully operational constellation with global coverage consists of 24 satellites, while 18 satellites are necessary for covering the territory of Russia. To get a position fix the receiver must be in the range of at least four satellites.\n\nGLONASS satellites transmit two types of signal: open standard-precision signal L1OF/L2OF, and obfuscated high-precision signal L1SF/L2SF.\n\nThe signals use similar DSSS encoding and binary phase-shift keying (BPSK) modulation as in GPS signals. All GLONASS satellites transmit the same code as their standard-precision signal; however each transmits on a different frequency using a 15-channel frequency division multiple access (FDMA) technique spanning either side from 1602.0 MHz, known as the L1 band. The center frequency is 1602 MHz + \"n\" × 0.5625 MHz, where \"n\" is a satellite's frequency channel number (\"n\"=−7,−6,−5...0...,6, previously \"n\"=0...,13). Signals are transmitted in a 38° cone, using right-hand circular polarization, at an EIRP between 25 and 27 dBW (316 to 500 watts). Note that the 24-satellite constellation is accommodated with only 15 channels by using identical frequency channels to support antipodal (opposite side of planet in orbit) satellite pairs, as these satellites are never both in view of an earth-based user at the same time.\n\nThe L2 band signals use the same FDMA as the L1 band signals, but transmit straddling 1246 MHz with the center frequency 1246 MHz + \"n\"×0.4375 MHz, where \"n\" spans the same range as for L1. In the original GLONASS design, only obfuscated high-precision signal was broadcast in the L2 band, but starting with GLONASS-M, an additional civil reference signal L2OF is broadcast with an identical standard-precision code to the L1OF signal.\n\nThe open standard-precision signal is generated with modulo-2 addition (XOR) of 511 kbit/s pseudo-random ranging code, 50 bit/s navigation message, and an auxiliary 100 Hz meander sequence (Manchester code), all generated using a single time/frequency oscillator. The pseudo-random code is generated with a 9-stage shift register operating with a period of 1 ms.\n\nThe navigational message is modulated at 50 bits per second. The superframe of the open signal is 7500 bits long and consists of 5 frames of 30 seconds, taking 150 seconds (2.5 minutes) to transmit the continuous message. Each frame is 1500 bits long and consists of 15 strings of 100 bits (2 seconds for each string), with 85 bits (1.7 seconds) for data and check-sum bits, and 15 bits (0.3 seconds) for time mark. Strings 1-4 provide immediate data for the transmitting satellite, and are repeated every frame; the data include ephemeris, clock and frequency offsets, and satellite status. Strings 5-15 provide non-immediate data (i.e. almanac) for each satellite in the constellation, with frames I-IV each describing five satellites, and frame V describing remaining four satellites.\n\nThe ephemerides are updated every 30 minutes using data from the Ground Control segment; they use Earth Centred Earth Fixed (ECEF) Cartesian coordinates in position and velocity, and include lunisolar acceleration parameters. The almanac uses modified Keplerian parameters and is updated daily.\n\nThe more accurate high-precision signal is available for authorized users, such as the Russian military, yet unlike the US P(Y) code, which is modulated by an encrypting W code, the GLONASS restricted-use codes are broadcast in the clear using only \"security through obscurity\". The details of the high-precision signal have not been disclosed. The modulation (and therefore the tracking strategy) of the data bits on the L2SF code has recently changed from unmodulated to 250 bit/s burst at random intervals. The L1SF code is modulated by the navigation data at 50 bit/s without a Manchester meander code.\n\nThe high-precision signal is broadcast in phase quadrature with the standard-precision signal, effectively sharing the same carrier wave, but with a ten-times-higher bandwidth than the open signal. The message format of the high-precision signal remains unpublished, although attempts at reverse-engineering indicate that the superframe is composed of 72 frames, each containing 5 strings of 100 bits and taking 10 seconds to transmit, with total length of 36 000 bits or 720 seconds (12 minutes) for the whole navigational message. The additional data are seemingly allocated to critical Luni-Solar acceleration parameters and clock correction terms.\n\nAt peak efficiency, the standard-precision signal offers horizontal positioning accuracy within 5–10 meters, vertical positioning within , a velocity vector measuring within , and timing within 200 ns, all based on measurements from four first-generation satellites simultaneously; newer satellites such as GLONASS-M improve on this.\n\nGLONASS uses a coordinate datum named \"PZ-90\" (Earth Parameters 1990 – Parametry Zemli 1990), in which the precise location of the North Pole is given as an average of its position from 1990 to 1995. This is in contrast to the GPS's coordinate datum, WGS 84, which uses the location of the North Pole in 1984. As of 17 September 2007 the PZ-90 datum has been updated to version PZ-90.02 which differ from WGS 84 by less than in any given direction. Since 31 December 2013, version PZ-90.11 is being broadcast, which is aligned to the International Terrestrial Reference System at epoch 2011.0 at the centimeter level.\n\nSince 2008, new CDMA signals are being researched for use with GLONASS.\n\nThe interface control documents for GLONASS CDMA signals was published in August 2016.\n\nAccording to GLONASS developers, there will be three open and two restricted CDMA signals. The open signal L3OC is centered at 1202.025 MHz and uses BPSK(10) modulation for both data and pilot channels; the ranging code transmits at 10.23 million chips per second, modulated onto the carrier frequency using QPSK with in-phase data and quadrature pilot. The data is error-coded with 5-bit Barker code and the pilot with 10-bit Neuman-Hoffman code.\n\nOpen L1OC and restricted L1SC signals are centered at 1600.995 MHz, and open L2OC and restricted L2SC signals are centered at 1248.06 MHz, overlapping with GLONASS FDMA signals. Open signals L1OC and L2OC use time-division multiplexing to transmit pilot and data signals, with BPSK(1) modulation for data and BOC(1,1) modulation for pilot; wide-band restricted signals L1SC and L2SC use BOC (5, 2.5) modulation for both data and pilot, transmitted in quadrature phase to the open signals; this places peak signal strength away from the center frequency of narrow-band open signals.\n\nBinary phase-shift keying (BPSK) is used by standard GPS and GLONASS signals, however both BPSK and quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK) can be considered as variations of quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM), specifically QAM-2 and QAM-4. Binary offset carrier (BOC) is the modulation used by Galileo, modernized GPS, and BeiDou-2.\n\nThe navigational message of CDMA signals is transmitted as a sequence of text strings. The message has variable size - each pseudo-frame usually includes six strings and contains ephemerides for the current satellite (string types 10, 11, and 12 in a sequence) and part of the almanac for three satellites (three strings of type 20). To transmit the full almanac for all current 24 satellites, a superframe of 8 pseudo-frames is required. In the future, the superframe will be expanded to 10 pseudo-frames of data to cover full 30 satellites. The message can also contain Earth rotation parameters, ionosphere models, long-term orbit parameters for GLONASS satellites, and COSPAS-SARSAT messages. The system time marker is transmitted with each string; UTC leap second correction is achieved by shortening or lengthening (zero-padding) the final string of the day by one second, with abnormal strings being discarded by the receiver. The strings have a version tag to facilitate forward compatibility: future upgrades to the message format will not break older equipment, which will continue to work by ignoring new data (as long as the constellation still transmits old string types), but up-to-date equipment will be able to use additional information from newer satellites.\n\nThe navigational message of the L3OC signal is transmitted at 100 bit/s, with each string of symbols taking 3 seconds (300 bits). A pseudo-frame of 6 strings takes 18 seconds (1800 bits) to transmit. A superframe of 8 pseudo-frames is 14,400 bits long and takes 144 seconds (2 minutes 24 seconds) to transmit the full almanac.\n\nThe navigational message of the L1OC signal is transmitted at 100 bit/s. The string is 250 bits long and takes 2.5 seconds to transmit. A pseudo-frame is 1500 bits (15 seconds) long, and a superframe is 12,000 bits or 120 seconds (2 minutes).\n\nL2OC signal does not transmit any navigational message, only the pseudo-range codes.\nGlonass-K1 test satellite launched in 2011 introduced L3OC signal. Glonass-M satellites produced since 2014 (s/n 755+) will also transmit L3OC signal for testing purposes.\n\nEnhanced Glonass-K1 and Glonass-K2 satellites, to be launched from 2018, will feature a full suite of modernized CDMA signals in the existing L1 and L2 bands, which includes L1SC, L1OC, L2SC, and L2OC, as well as the L3OC signal. Glonass-K series should gradually replace existing satellites starting from 2018, when Glonass-M launches will cease.\n\nGlonass-KM satellites will be launched by 2025. Additional open signals are being studied for these satellites, based on frequencies and formats used by existing GPS, Galileo, and Beidou/COMPASS signals:\n\nSuch an arrangement will allow easier and cheaper implementation of multi-standard GNSS receivers.\n\nWith the introduction of CDMA signals, the constellation will be expanded to 30 active satellites by 2025; this may require eventual deprecation of FDMA signals. The new satellites will be deployed into three additional planes, bringing the total to six planes from the current three—aided by System for Differential Correction and Monitoring (SDCM), which is a GNSS augmentation system based on a network of ground-based control stations and communication satellites Luch 5A and Luch 5B. Additional satellites may use Molniya orbit, Tundra orbit, geosynchronous orbit, or inclined orbit to offer increased regional availability, similar to Japanese QZSS system.\n\nThe main contractor of the GLONASS program is Joint Stock Company Reshetnev Information Satellite Systems (ISS Reshetnev, formerly called NPO-PM). The company, located in Zheleznogorsk, is the designer of all GLONASS satellites, in cooperation with the Institute for Space Device Engineering () and the Russian Institute of Radio Navigation and Time. Serial production of the satellites is accomplished by the company PC Polyot in Omsk.\n\nOver the three decades of development, the satellite designs have gone through numerous improvements, and can be divided into three generations: the original GLONASS (since 1982), GLONASS-M (since 2003) and GLONASS-K (since 2011). Each GLONASS satellite has a GRAU designation 11F654, and each of them also has the military \"Cosmos-NNNN\" designation.\n\nThe true first generation of GLONASS (also called Uragan) satellites were all three-axis stabilized vehicles, generally weighing and were equipped with a modest propulsion system to permit relocation within the constellation. Over time they were upgraded to Block IIa, IIb, and IIv vehicles, with each block containing evolutionary improvements.\n\nSix Block IIa satellites were launched in 1985–1986 with improved time and frequency standards over the prototypes, and increased frequency stability. These spacecraft also demonstrated a 16-month average operational lifetime. Block IIb spacecraft, with a two-year design lifetimes, appeared in 1987, of which a total of 12 were launched, but half were lost in launch vehicle accidents. The six spacecraft that made it to orbit worked well, operating for an average of nearly 22 months.\n\nBlock IIv was the most prolific of the first generation. Used exclusively from 1988 to 2000, and continued to be included in launches through 2005, a total of 56 satellites were launched. The design life was three years, however numerous spacecraft exceeded this, with one late model lasting 68 months, nearly double.\n\nBlock II satellites were typically launched three at a time from the Baikonur Cosmodrome using Proton-K Blok-DM-2 or Proton-K Briz-M boosters. The only exception was when, on two launches, an Etalon geodetic reflector satellite was substituted for a GLONASS satellite.\n\nThe second generation of satellites, known as Glonass-M, were developed beginning in 1990 and first launched in 2003. These satellites possess a substantially increased lifetime of seven years and weigh slightly more at . They are approximately in diameter and high, with a solar array span of for an electrical power generation capability of 1600 watts at launch. The aft payload structure houses 12 primary antennas for L-band transmissions. Laser corner-cube reflectors are also carried to aid in precise orbit determination and geodetic research. On-board cesium clocks provide the local clock source. Glonass-M includes 31 satellites ranging from satellite index 21 - 92 and with 4 spare active satellites.\n\nA total of 41 second generation satellites were launched through the end of 2013. As with the previous generation, the second generation spacecraft were launched three at a time using Proton-K Blok-DM-2 or Proton-K Briz-M boosters. Some where launched alone with Soyuz-2-1b/Fregat\n\nOn July 30, 2015, ISS Reshetnev announced that it had completed the last GLONASS-M (No. 61) spacecraft and it was putting it in storage waiting for launch, along with eight previously built satellites.\n\nAs on September 22, 2017, GLONASS-M No. 52 satellite went into operation and the orbital grouping has again increased to 24 space vehicles.\n\nGLONASS-K is a substantial improvement of the previous generation: it is the first unpressurised GLONASS satellite with a much reduced mass ( versus of GLONASS-M). It has an operational lifetime of 10 years, compared to the 7-year lifetime of the second generation GLONASS-M. It will transmit more navigation signals to improve the system's accuracy—including new CDMA signals in the L3 and L5 bands, which will use modulation similar to modernized GPS, Galileo, and Compass. Glonass-K consist of 26 satellites having satellite index 65-98 and widely used in Russian Military space. The new satellite's advanced equipment—made solely from Russian components—will allow the doubling of GLONASS' accuracy. As with the previous satellites, these are 3-axis stabilized, nadir pointing with dual solar arrays. The first GLONASS-K satellite was successfully launched on 26 February 2011.\n\nDue to their weight reduction, GLONASS-K spacecraft can be launched in pairs from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome launch site using the substantially lower cost Soyuz-2.1b boosters or in six-at-once from the Baikonur Cosmodrome using Proton-K Briz-M launch vehicles.\n\nThe ground control segment of GLONASS is almost entirely located within former Soviet Union territory, except for several in Brazil.\n\nThe GLONASS ground segment consists of:\n\nCompanies producing GNSS receivers making use of GLONASS:\nNPO Progress describes a receiver called \"GALS-A1\", which combines GPS and GLONASS reception. \n\nSkyWave Mobile Communications manufactures an Inmarsat-based satellite communications terminal that uses both GLONASS and GPS. \n\n, some of the latest receivers in the Garmin eTrex line also support GLONASS (along with GPS). Garmin also produce a standalone Bluetooth receiver, the GLO for Aviation, which combines GPS, WAAS and GLONASS. \n\nVarious smartphones from 2011 onwards have integrated GLONASS capability in addition to their pre-existing GPS receivers, with the intention of reducing signal acquisition periods by allowing the device to pick up more satellites than with a single-network receiver, including devices from: \n\n, the GLONASS constellation status is:\n\nThe system requires 18 satellites for continuous navigation services covering the entire territory of the Russian Federation, and 24 satellites to provide services worldwide. The GLONASS system covers 100% of worldwide territory.\n\nOn 2 April 2014 the system experienced a technical failure that resulted in practical unavailability of the navigation signal for around 12 hours.\n\nOn 14–15 April 2014 nine GLONASS satellites experienced a technical failure due to software problems.\n\nOn 19 February 2016 three GLONASS satellites experienced a technical failure: the batteries of GLONASS-738 exploded, the batteries of GLONASS-737 were depleted, and GLONASS-736 experienced a stationkeeping failure due to human error during maneuvering. GLONASS-737 and GLONASS-736 are expected to be operational again after maintenance, and one new satellite (GLONASS-751) to replace GLONASS-738 is expected to complete commissioning in early March. The full capacity of the satellite group is expected to be restored in the middle of March.\nAfter the launching of two new satellites and maintenance of two others, the full capacity of the satellite group was restored.\n\nThe GLONASS accuracy is up to 2.8 meters, in comparison with GPS, which have accuracy up to 5 meters.\nAccording to Russian System of Differentional Correction and Monitoring's data, , precision of GLONASS navigation definitions (for p=0.95) for latitude and longitude were with mean number of navigation space vehicles (NSV) equals 7—8 (depending on station). In comparison, the same time precision of GPS navigation definitions were with mean number of NSV equals 6—11 (depending on station). Civilian GLONASS used alone is therefore very slightly less accurate than GPS. On high latitudes (north or south), GLONASS' accuracy is better than that of GPS due to the orbital position of the satellites.\n\nSome modern receivers are able to use both GLONASS and GPS satellites together, providing greatly improved coverage in urban canyons and giving a very fast time to fix due to over 50 satellites being available. In indoor, urban canyon or mountainous areas, accuracy can be greatly improved over using GPS alone. For using both navigation systems simultaneously, precision of GLONASS/GPS navigation definitions were with mean number of NSV equals 14—19 (depends on station).\n\nIn May 2009, Anatoly Perminov, then director of the Russian Federal Space Agency, stated that actions were undertaken to expand GLONASS's constellation and to improve the ground segment to increase the navigation definition of GLONASS to an accuracy of by 2011. In particular, the latest satellite design, GLONASS-K has the ability to double the system's accuracy once introduced. The system's ground segment is also to undergo improvements. As of early 2012, sixteen positioning ground stations are under construction in Russia and in the Antarctic at the Bellingshausen and Novolazarevskaya bases. New stations will be built around the southern hemisphere from Brazil to Indonesia. Together, these improvements are expected to bring GLONASS' accuracy to 0.6 m or better by 2020. The setup of a GLONASS receiving station in the Philippines is also now under negotiation.\n\nThe first satellite-based radio navigation system developed in the Soviet Union was Tsiklon, which had the purpose of providing ballistic missile submarines a method for accurate positioning. 31 Tsiklon satellites were launched between 1967 and 1978. The main problem with the system was that, although highly accurate for stationary or slow-moving ships, it required several hours of observation by the receiving station to fix a position, making it unusable for many navigation purposes and for the guidance of the new generation of ballistic missiles. In 1968–1969, a new navigation system, which would support not only the navy, but also the air, land and space forces, was conceived. Formal requirements were completed in 1970; in 1976, the government made a decision to launch development of the \"Unified Space Navigation System GLONASS\".\n\nThe task of designing GLONASS was given to a group of young specialists at NPO PM in the city of Krasnoyarsk-26 (today called Zheleznogorsk). Under the leadership of Vladimir Cheremisin, they developed different proposals, from which the institute's director Grigory Chernyavsky selected the final one. The work was completed in the late 1970s; the system consists of 24 satellites operating at an altitude of in medium circular orbit. It would be able to promptly fix the receiving station's position based on signals from four satellites, and also reveal the object's speed and direction. The satellites would be launched three at a time on the heavy-lift Proton rocket. Due to the large number of satellites needed for the program, NPO PM delegated the manufacturing of the satellites to PO Polyot in Omsk, which had better production capabilities.\n\nOriginally, GLONASS was designed to have an accuracy of , but in reality it had an accuracy of in the civilian signal and in the military signal. The first generation GLONASS satellites were tall, had a width of , measured across their solar panels, and a mass of .\n\nIn the early 1980s, NPO PM received the first prototype satellites from PO Polyot for ground tests. Many of the produced parts were of low quality and NPO PM engineers had to perform substantial redesigning, leading to a delay. On 12 October 1982, three satellites, designated Kosmos-1413, Kosmos-1414, and Kosmos-1415 were launched aboard a Proton rocket. As only one GLONASS satellite was ready in time for the launch instead of the expected three, it was decided to launch it along with two mock-ups. The USA media reported the event as a launch of one satellite and \"two secret objects.\" For a long time, the USA could not find out the nature of those \"objects\". The Telegraph Agency of the Soviet Union (TASS) covered the launch, describing GLONASS as a system \"created to determine positioning of civil aviation aircraft, navy transport and fishing-boats of the Soviet Union\".\n\nFrom 1982 to April 1991, the Soviet Union successfully launched a total of 43 GLONASS-related satellites plus five test satellites. When the Soviet Union disintegrated in 1991, twelve GLONASS satellites in two planes were operational; enough to allow limited use of the system (to cover the entire territory of the Union, 18 satellites would have been necessary.) The Russian Federation took over control of the constellation and continued its development. In 1993, the system, now consisting of 12 satellites, was formally declared operational and in December 1995 it was brought to a fully operational constellation of 24 satellites. This brought the precision of GLONASS on a par with the USA GPS system, which had achieved full operation а year earlier.\n\nSince the first generation satellites operated for three years each, to keep the system at full capacity, two launches per year would have been necessary to maintain the full network of 24 satellites. However, in the financially difficult period of 1989–1999, the space program's funding was cut by 80% and Russia consequently found itself unable to afford this launch rate. After the full complement was achieved in December 1995, there were no further launches until December 1999. As a result, the constellation reached its lowest point of just six operational satellites in 2001. As a prelude to demilitarisation, responsibility of the program was transferred from the Ministry of Defence to Russia's civilian space agency Roscosmos.\n\nIn the 2000s, the Russian economy recovered and state finances improved considerably. Vladimir Putin took a special interest in GLONASS and the system's restoration was made one of the government's top priorities. For this purpose, on August 2001, the Federal Targeted Program \"Global Navigation System\" 2002–2011 (Government Decision No. 587) was launched. The program was given a budget of $420 million and aimed at restoring the full constellation by 2009.\n\nOn 10 December 2003, the second generation satellite design, GLONASS-M, was launched for the first time. It had a slightly larger mass than the baseline GLONASS, standing at , but it had seven years lifetime, four years longer than the lifetime of the original GLONASS satellite, decreasing the required replacement rate. The new satellite also had better accuracy and ability to broadcast two extra civilian signals.\n\nIn 2006, Defence Minister Sergey Ivanov ordered one of the signals (with an accuracy of ) to be made available to civilian users. Putin, however, was not satisfied with this, and demanded that the whole system should be made fully available to everyone. Consequently, on 18 May 2007, all restrictions were lifted. The accurate, formerly military-only signal with a precision of , has since then been freely available to civilian users.\n\nDuring the middle of the first decade of the 21st century, the Russian economy boomed, resulting in substantial increases in the country's space budget. In 2007, the financing of the GLONASS program was increased considerably; its budget was more than doubled. While in 2006 the GLONASS had received $181 million from the federal budget, in 2007 the amount was increased to $380 million.\n\nIn the end, 140.1 billion rubles ($4.7 billion) were spent on the program 2001–2011, making it Roscosmos' largest project and consuming a third of its 2010 budget of 84.5 billion rubles.\n\nFor the period of 2012 to 2020 320 billion rubles ($10 billion) were allocated to support the system.\n\nIn June 2008, the system consisted of 16 satellites, 12 of which were fully operational at the time. At this point, Roscosmos aimed at having a full constellation of 24 satellites in orbit by 2010, one year later than previously planned.\n\nIn September 2008, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin signed a decree allocating additional 67 billion rubles ($2.6 billion) to GLONASS from the federal budget.\n\nAlthough the GLONASS constellation has reached global coverage, its commercialisation, especially development of the user segment, has been lacking compared to the American GPS. For example, the first commercial Russian-made GLONASS navigation device for cars, Glospace SGK-70, was introduced in 2007, but it was much bigger and costlier than similar GPS receivers. In late 2010, there were only a handful of GLONASS receivers on the market, and few of them were meant for ordinary consumers. To improve the situation, the Russian government has been actively promoting GLONASS for civilian use.\n\nTo improve development of the user segment, on 11 August 2010, Sergei Ivanov announced a plan to introduce a 25% import duty on all GPS-capable devices, including mobile phones, unless they are compatible with GLONASS. The government also planned to force all car manufacturers in Russia to support GLONASS starting from 2011. This would affect all car makers, including foreign brands like Ford and Toyota, which have car assembly facilities in Russia.\n\nGPS and phone baseband chips from major vendors Qualcomm, Exynos and Broadcom all support GLONASS in combination with GPS.\n\nIn April 2011, Sweden's Swepos—a national network of satellite reference stations that provides real-time positioning data with meter accuracy—became the first known foreign company to use GLONASS.\n\nSmartphones and Tablets also saw implementation of GLONASS support in 2011 with devices released that year from Xiaomi Tech Company (Xiaomi Phone 2), Sony Ericsson, Samsung (Galaxy Note, Galaxy Note II, Galaxy SII, Galaxy SIII mini, the Google Nexus 10 in late 2012), Asus, Apple (iPhone 4S and iPad Mini in late 2012), HTC and Sony Mobile adding support for the system allowing increased accuracy and lock on speed in difficult conditions.\n\nRussia's aim of finishing the constellation in 2010 suffered a setback when a December 2010 launch of three GLONASS-M satellites failed. The Proton-M rocket itself performed flawlessly, but the upper stage Blok DM3 (a new version that was to make its maiden flight) was loaded with too much fuel due to a sensor failure. As a result, the upper stage and the three satellites crashed into the Pacific Ocean. Kommersant estimated that the launch failure cost up to $160 million. Russian President Dmitry Medvedev ordered a full audit of the entire program and an investigation into the failure.\n\nFollowing the mishap, Roscosmos activated two reserve satellites and decided to make the first improved GLONASS-K satellite, to be launched in February 2011, part of the operational constellation instead of mainly for testing as was originally planned. This would bring the total number of satellites to 23, obtaining almost complete worldwide coverage. The GLONASS-K2 was originally scheduled to be launched by 2013, however by 2012 was not expected to be launched until 2015.\n\nIn 2010, President Dmitry Medvedev ordered the government to prepare a new federal targeted program for GLONASS, covering the years 2012–2020. The original 2001 program is scheduled to end in 2011. On 22 June 2011, Roscosmos revealed that the agency was looking for a funding of 402 billion rubles ($14.35 billion) for the program. The funds would be spent on maintaining the satellite constellation, on developing and maintaining navigational maps as well as on sponsoring supplemental technologies to make GLONASS more attractive to users.\n\nOn 2 October 2011 the 24th satellite of the system, a GLONASS-M, was successfully launched from Plesetsk Cosmodrome and is now in service. This made the GLONASS constellation fully restored, for the first time since 1996.\n\nOn 5 November 2011 the Proton-M booster successfully put three GLONASS-M units in final orbit.\n\nOn Monday 28 November 2011, a Soyuz rocket, launched from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome Space Centre, placed a single GLONASS-M satellite into orbit into Plane 3.\n\nOn 26 April 2013 a single GLONASS-M satellite was delivered to the orbit by Soyuz rocket from Plesetsk Cosmodrome, restoring the constellation to 24 operational satellites, the minimum to provide global coverage.\n\nOn 2 July 2013 a Proton-M rocket, carrying 3 GLONASS-M satellites, crashed during takeoff from Baikonur Cosmodrome. It veered off the course just after leaving the pad and plunged into the ground nose first. The rocket employed a DM-03 booster, for the first time since the December 2010 launch, when the vehicle had also failed, resulting in a loss of another 3 satellites.\n\nHowever, as of 2014, while the system was completed from technical point of view, the operational side was still not closed by the Ministry of Defense and its formal status was still \"in development\".\n\nOn 7 December 2015, the system was officially completed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18617998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18617998", "title": "Geisha", "text": "Geisha\n\nContrary to popular belief, Geisha are not the Eastern equivalent of a prostitute; a misconception originating in the West due to interactions with Oiran Japanese courtesans, whose traditional attire is similar to that of geisha. \n\nThe word \"geisha\" consists of two kanji, (\"Gei\") meaning \"art\" and (\"Sha\") meaning \"person\" or \"doer\". The most literal translation of geisha into English would be \"artist\", \"performing artist\", or \"artisan\". Another name for geisha is \"Geiko\" (), which translates specifically as \"Woman of Art\". This term is used to refer to geisha from Western Japan, which includes Kyoto and Kanazawa.\n\nApprentice geisha are called \"Maiko\" (), literally \"Woman of Dance\", or \"Hangyoku\" (半玉), \"Half-Jewel\" (meaning that they were paid half of the wage of a full geisha), or by the more generic term \"o-shaku\" (), literally \"one who pours (alcohol)\". The white make-up and elaborate kimono and hair of a maiko is the popular image held of geisha. A woman entering the geisha community does not have to begin as a maiko, having the opportunity to begin her career as a full geisha. Either way, however, usually a year's training is involved before debuting either as a maiko or as a geisha. A woman above 21 is considered too old to be a maiko and becomes a full geisha upon her initiation into the geisha community.\n\nOn average, Tokyo apprentices (who typically begin at 18) are slightly older than their Kyoto counterparts (who usually start at 15). Historically, geisha often began the earliest stages of their training at a very young age, sometimes as early as 6 years old. The early \"Shikomi\" (in-training) and \"Minarai\" (learns by watching) stages of geisha training lasted for years (shikomi) and months (minarai) respectively, which is significantly longer than in contemporary times. A girl is often a shikomi for up to a year while the modern minarai period is simply one month.\n\nIt is still said that geisha inhabit a separate world which they call the \"Karyūkai\" or \"The Flower and Willow World\". Before they disappeared, the courtesans were the colourful \"flowers\" and the geisha the \"willows\" because of their subtlety, strength, and grace.\n\nIn the early stages of Japanese history, there were female entertainers: \"Saburuko\" (serving girls) were mostly wandering girls whose families were displaced from struggles in the late 600s. Some of these \"saburuko\" girls sold sexual services, while others with a better education made a living by entertaining at high-class social gatherings. After the imperial court moved the capital to Heian-kyō (Kyoto) in 794 the conditions that would form geisha culture began to emerge, as it became the home of a beauty-obsessed elite. Skilled female performers, such as Shirabyōshi dancers, thrived.\n\nTraditional Japan embraced sexual delights (it is not a Shinto taboo) and men were not constrained to be faithful to their wives. The ideal wife was a modest mother and manager of the home; by Confucian custom love had secondary importance. For sexual enjoyment and romantic attachment, men did not go to their wives, but to courtesans. Walled-in pleasure quarters known as were built in the 16th century, and in 1617 the shogunate designated \"pleasure quarters\", outside of which prostitution would be illegal, and within which \"yūjo\" (\"play women\") would be classified and licensed. The highest \"yūjo\" class was the geisha's predecessor, called \"tayuu\", a combination of actress and prostitute, originally playing on stages set in the dry Kamo riverbed in Kyoto. They performed erotic dances and skits, and this new art was dubbed \"kabuku\", meaning \"to be wild and outrageous\". The dances were called \"kabuki\", and this was the .\n\nThese pleasure quarters quickly became glamorous entertainment centers, offering more than sex. The highly accomplished courtesans of these districts entertained their clients by dancing, singing, and playing music. Some were renowned poets and calligraphers. Gradually, they all became specialized and the new profession, purely of entertainment, arose. It was near the turn of the eighteenth century that the first entertainers of the pleasure quarters, called \"geisha\", appeared. The first geishas were men, entertaining customers waiting to see the most popular and gifted courtesans (\"oiran\").\n\nThe forerunners of the female geisha were the teenage \"odoriko\" (\"dancing girls\"): expensively trained as chaste dancers-for-hire. In the 1680s, they were popular paid entertainers in the private homes of upper-class samurai, though many had turned to prostitution by the early 18th century. Those who were no longer teenagers (and could no longer style themselves \"odoriko\") adopted other names—one being \"geisha\", after the male entertainers. The first woman known to have called herself \"geisha\" was a Fukagawa prostitute, in about 1750. She was a skilled singer and shamisen player named Kikuya who was an immediate success, making female geisha extremely popular in 1750s Fukagawa. As they became more widespread throughout the 1760s and 1770s, many began working only as entertainers (rather than prostitutes), often in the same establishments as male geisha.\n\nThe geisha who worked within the pleasure quarters were essentially imprisoned and strictly forbidden to sell sex in order to protect the business of the oiran. While licensed courtesans existed to meet men's sexual needs, \"machi geisha\" carved out a separate niche as artists and erudite female companions.\n\nBy 1800, being a geisha was considered a female occupation (though there are still a handful of male geisha working today). Eventually, the gaudy Oiran began to fall out of fashion, becoming less popular than the chic (\"iki\") and modern geisha. By the 1830s, the evolving geisha style was emulated by fashionable women throughout society. There were many different classifications and ranks of geisha. Some women would have sex with their male customers, whereas others would entertain strictly with their art forms. Prostitution in Japan was legal up until 1908, so it was practiced throughout Japan.\n\nWorld War II brought a huge decline in the geisha arts because most women had to go to factories or elsewhere to contribute to post war reconstruction. The geisha name also lost some status during this time because prostitutes began referring to themselves as \"geisha girls\" to American military men. In 1944, the geisha world, including the teahouses, bars and geisha houses, was forced to close, and all employees were put to work in factories. About a year later, they were allowed to reopen. The few women who returned to the geisha areas decided to reject Western influence and revert to traditional ways of entertainment and life. \"The image of the geisha was formed during Japan's feudal past, and this is now the image they must keep in order to remain geisha.\" It was up to these returning geisha to bring back traditional standards in the profession, though with increased rights for the geisha:\nThere were many rumors that stated before the war, a maiko's virginity would be auctioned (the original \"mizuage\"). But this was confused with the girls who were apprentices to prostitutes and courtesans. Compulsory education laws passed in the 1960s made traditional geisha apprenticeships difficult, leading to a decline in women entering the field.\n\nIn her book \"Geisha, a Life\", Mineko Iwasaki said: \"I lived in the karyukai during the 1960s and 1970s, a time when Japan was undergoing the radical transformation from a post-feudal to a modern society. But I existed in a world apart, a special realm whose mission and identity depended on preserving the time-honored traditions of the past.\"\n\nAt the pinnacle of the complex geisha ranking system are the grand dowagers of Kyoto. The \"Gokagai\" of Kyoto are its five geisha districts, also known as \"hanamachi\" (\"flower towns\"). Gion Kobu, Pontocho and Kamishichiken have the highest status; they are very expensive and are frequented by powerful businessmen and politicians (Gion Kobu is sometimes seen as having the very highest ranking). As reported by Dalby (1983) from her impressions in 1975 Geiko from the other two \"hanamachi\" (Gion Higashi and Miyagawa Cho) have high prestige but are considered to be one rank lower.\n\nTraditionally, Geisha began their training at a young age. Some girls were bonded to geisha houses (\"okiya\") as children. Daughters of geisha were often brought up as geisha themselves, usually as the successor (atotori, meaning \"heir\" or \"heiress\" in this particular situation) or daughter-role (musume-bun) to the okiya.\n\nA maiko is an apprentice and is therefore bonded under a contract to her okiya. The okiya supplies her with food, board, kimono, obi, and other tools of her trade. Her training is very expensive and her debt must be repaid to the okiya with the earnings she makes. This repayment may continue after the maiko becomes a full-fledged geisha and only when her debts are settled is she permitted to move out to live and work independently.\n\nA maiko will start her formal training on the job as a \"minarai\", which literally means \"learning by watching\" at an ozashiki (お座敷, a banquet in any traditional Japanese building with tatami), to sit and observe as the other maiko and geiko interact with customers. This is a way in which she will gain insights of the job, and seek out potential clients. Although minarai attend \"ozashiki\", they do not participate at an advanced level. Their kimono, more elaborate than a geiko's, are intended to do the talking for them. Minarai can be hired for parties but are usually uninvited (yet welcomed) guests at parties that their \"onee-san\" attends. They only charge a third of the usual fee. Minarai generally work with a particular tea house (\"Minarai-jaya\") learning from the \"okaa-san\" (literally \"mother\", the proprietress of the house). From her, they would learn techniques such as conversation and gaming, which would not be taught to them in school. This stage lasts only about a month or so.\nAfter a short period the final stage of training begins, and the students are now called \"maiko\", rather than minarai. Maiko (literally \"dance girl\") are apprentice geisha, and this stage can last for up to 5 years. Maiko learn from their senior maiko and geiko mentors. The \"onee-san\" and \"imouto-san\" (senior/junior, literally \"older sister/younger sister\") relationship is important. The \"onee-san\", any maiko or geiko who is senior to a girl, teaches her maiko everything about working in the hanamachi. The onee-san will teach her proper ways of serving tea, playing shamisen, dancing, casual conversation and more.\nThere are three major elements of a maiko's training. The first is the formal arts training. This takes place in special geisha schools which are found in every \"hanamachi\". The second element is the entertainment training which the maiko learns at various tea houses and parties by observing her \"onee-san\". The third is the social skill of navigating the complex social web of the \"hanamachi\". This is done on the streets. Formal greetings, gifts, and visits are key parts of any social structure in Japan and for a maiko, they are crucial for her to build the support network she needs to survive as a geisha.\n\nMaiko are considered one of the great sights of Japanese tourism, and look very different from fully qualified geisha. They are at the peak of traditional Japanese femininity. The scarlet-fringed collar of a maiko's kimono hangs very loosely in the back to accentuate the nape of the neck, which is considered a primary erotic area in Japanese sexuality. She wears the same white makeup for her face on her nape, leaving two or sometimes three stripes of bare skin exposed. Her kimono is bright and colourful with an elaborately tied \"obi\" hanging down to her ankles. She takes very small steps and wears traditional wooden shoes called \"okobo\" which stand nearly ten centimeters high. There are five different hairstyles that a maiko wears, that mark the different stages of her apprenticeship. The \"Nihongami\" hairstyle with \"kanzashi\" hair-ornamentation strips is most closely associated with maiko, who spend hours each week at the hairdresser and sleep on holed-pillows to preserve the elaborate styling. Maiko can develop a bald spot on their crown caused by rubbing from Kanzashi strips and tugging in hairdressing.\n\nAround the age of 20–21, the maiko is promoted to a full-fledged geisha in a ceremony called \"erikae\" (turning of the collar). This could happen after three to five years of her life as a \"maiko\" or \"hangyoku\", depending on at what age she debuted. Geisha remain as such until they retire.\n\n The term geisha literally translates to \"entertainer\". Some prostitutes refer to themselves as \"geisha\", but they are not. A geisha's sex and love life is usually distinct from her professional life. A successful geisha can entertain her male customers with music, dance, and conversation.\n\nGeisha learn the traditional skills of dance and instruments and hold high social status. Geisha are single women, though they may have lovers or boyfriends whom they have personally picked, who support them financially.\n\nThe appeal of a high-ranking geisha to her typical male guest has historically been very different from that of his wife. The ideal geisha showed her skill, while the ideal wife was modest. The ideal geisha seemed carefree, the ideal wife somber and responsible. Historically, geisha did sometimes marry their clients, but marriage necessitated retirement, as there were never married geisha.\n\nGeisha may gracefully flirt with their guests, but they will always remain in control of the hospitality. Over their years of apprenticeship they learn to adapt to different situations and personalities, mastering the art of the hostess.\n\nWomen in the geisha society are some of the most successful businesswomen in Japan. In the geisha society, women run everything. Without the impeccable business skills of the female tea house owners, the world of geisha would cease to exist. The tea house owners are entrepreneurs, whose service to the geisha is highly necessary for the society to run smoothly. Infrequently, men take contingent positions such as hair stylists, dressers (dressing a maiko requires considerable strength) and accountants, but men have a limited role in geisha society.\n\nThe majority of women were wives who did not work outside of their familial duties. Becoming a geisha was a way for women to support themselves without becoming a wife. Thus, some argue that geisha women live in a women-centered society. Women run the geisha houses, they are teachers, they run the tea houses, they recruit aspiring geisha, and they keep track of a geisha's finances. The only major role men play in geisha society is that of guest, though women sometimes take that role as well.\n\nHistorically, Japanese feminists have seen geisha as exploited women, but some modern geisha see themselves as liberated feminists: \"We find our own way, without doing family responsibilities. Isn't that what feminists are?\"\n\nModern geisha still live in traditional geisha houses called \"okiya\" in areas called \"hanamachi\" ( \"flower streets\"), particularly during their apprenticeship. Many experienced geisha are successful enough to choose to live independently. The elegant, high-culture world that geisha are a part of is called \"karyūkai\" ( \"the flower and willow world\").\n\nBefore the twentieth century, geisha training began when a girl was around the age of six. Now, girls must go to school until they are 15 years old and have graduated from middle school and then make the personal decision to train to become a geisha. Young women who wish to become geisha now most often begin their training after high school or even college. Many more women begin their careers in adulthood.\n\nGeisha still study traditional instruments: the \"shamisen\", \"shakuhachi\", and drums, as well as learn games, traditional songs, calligraphy, Japanese traditional dances (in the nihonbuyō style), tea ceremony, literature, and poetry.\n\nBy watching other geisha, and with the assistance of the owner of the geisha house, apprentices also become skilled dealing with clients and in the complex traditions surrounding selecting and wearing kimono, a floor length silk robe embroidered with intricate designs which is held together by a sash at the waist which is called an obi.\n\nIn modern Japan, geisha and their apprentices are now a rare sight outside \"hanamachi\" or . In the 1920s, there were over 80,000 geisha in Japan, but today, there are far fewer. Most common sightings are of tourists who pay a fee to be dressed up as a maiko.\n\nA sluggish economy, declining interest in the traditional arts, the exclusive nature of the flower and willow world, and the expense of being entertained by geisha have all contributed to the tradition's decline. However, the flower and willow world has seen a resurgence in new members over the last 10 years due to the accessibility that the internet has provided for young girls wanting to know more about the profession and not needing a formal introduction to an okiya.\nGeisha are often hired to attend parties and gatherings, traditionally at or at traditional Japanese restaurants (ryōtei). The charge for a geisha's time, which used to be determined by measuring a burning incense stick, is called \"senkōdai\" (, \"incense stick fee\") or gyokudai ( \"jewel fee\"). Now they are flat fees charged by the hour. In Kyoto, the terms \"ohana\" () and \"hanadai\" (), meaning \"flower fees\", are preferred. The okasan makes arrangements through the geisha union office ( \"kenban\"), which keeps each geisha's schedule and makes her appointments both for entertaining and for training.\n\nSince the 1970s, non-Japanese have also attempted to become geishas. \nLiza Dalby, an American national worked briefly with geisha in the Pontocho district of Kyoto as part of her doctorate research, although she did not formally debut as a geisha herself. \nThe district of Gion in Kyoto, Japan does not accept non-Japanese women to train for becoming a geisha due to their ultra–traditionalist environment.\n\nOther foreign nationals who have completed training and worked as geisha in Japan include the following:\n\n\nWhile traditionally geishas have led a cloistered existence, in recent years they have become more publicly visible, and entertainment is available without requiring the traditional introduction and connections.\n\nThe most visible form of this are public dances, or \"odori\" (generally written in traditional kana spelling as をどり, rather than modern おどり), featuring both maikos and geishas. All the Kyoto hanamachi hold these annually (mostly in spring, with one exclusively in autumn), dating to the Kyoto exhibition of 1872, and there are many performances, with tickets being inexpensive, ranging from around 1500 yen to 4500 yen – top-price tickets also include an optional tea ceremony (tea and wagashi served by maiko) before the performance; see Kyoto hanamachi and Kanazawa hanamachi for a detailed listing. Other hanamachi also hold public dances, including some in Tokyo, but have fewer performances.\nAnother notable event is that the geishas (including maikos) of the Kamishichiken district in northwest Kyoto serve tea to 3,000 guests on February 25 in an annual open-air tea ceremony (野点, \"nodate\") at the plum-blossom festival (梅花祭, \"baikasai\") at Kitano Tenman-gū shrine. , these geishas also serve beer in a beer garden at Kamishichiken Kaburenjo Theatre during summer months (July to early September); another geisha beer garden is available at the Gion Shinmonso ryokan in the Gion district. These beer gardens also feature traditional dances by the geishas in the evenings.\n\nGeisha begin their study of music and dance when they are very young and continue it throughout their lives. Geisha can work into their eighties and nineties, and are expected to train every day even after seventy years of experience.\n\nThe dance of the geisha has evolved from the dance performed on the noh and kabuki stages. The \"wild and outrageous\" dances transformed into a more subtle, stylized, and controlled form of dance. It is extremely disciplined, similar to t'ai chi. Every dance uses gestures to tell a story and only a connoisseur can understand the subdued symbolism. For example, a tiny hand gesture represents reading a love letter, holding the corner of a handkerchief in the mouth represents coquetry and the long sleeves of the elaborate kimono are often used to symbolize dabbing tears.\n\nThe dances are accompanied by traditional Japanese music. The primary instrument is the shamisen. The shamisen was introduced to the geisha culture in 1750 and has been mastered by female Japanese artists for years. This shamisen, originating in Okinawa, is a banjo-like three-stringed instrument that is played with a plectrum. It has a very distinct, melancholy sound that is often accompanied by flute. The instrument is described as \"melancholy\" because traditional shamisen music uses only minor thirds and sixths. All geisha must learn shamisen-playing, though it takes years to master. Along with the shamisen and the flute, geisha also learned to play a \"ko-tsuzumi\", a small, hourglass-shaped shoulder drum, and a large floor \"taiko\" (drum). Some geisha would not only dance and play music, but would write beautiful, melancholy poems. Others painted pictures or composed music.\n\nSheridan Prasso wrote that Americans had \"an incorrect impression of the real geisha world ... geisha means 'arts person' trained in music and dance, not in the art of sexual pleasure\". K. G. Henshall wrote that the geisha's purpose was \"to entertain their customer, be it by dancing, reciting verse, playing musical instruments, or engaging in light conversation. Geisha engagements may include flirting with men and playful innuendos; however, clients know that nothing more can be expected. In a social style that is common in Japan, men are amused by the illusion of that which is never to be.\"\n\nIn 1872, shortly after the Meiji Restoration, the new government passed a law liberating \"prostitutes (shōgi) and geisha (geigi)\". The wording of this statute was the subject of controversy. Some officials thought that prostitutes and geisha worked at different ends of the same profession—selling sex— and that all prostitutes should henceforth be called \"geisha\". In the end, the government decided to maintain a line between the two groups, arguing that geisha were more refined and should not be soiled by association with prostitutes.\n\nAlso, geisha working in \"onsen\" towns such as Atami are dubbed onsen geisha. Onsen geisha have been given a bad reputation due to the prevalence of prostitutes in such towns who market themselves as \"geisha\". In contrast to these \"one-night geisha\", the true onsen geisha are competent dancers and musicians. However, the autobiography of Sayo Masuda, an onsen geisha who worked in Nagano Prefecture in the 1930s, reveals that in the past, such women were often under intense pressure to sell sex.\n\nGeisha are portrayed as unattached. Formerly those who chose to marry had to retire from the profession, though today, some geisha are allowed to marry. It was traditional in the past for established geisha to take a \"danna\", or patron. A \"danna\" was typically a wealthy man, sometimes married, who had the means to support the very large expenses related to a geisha's traditional training and other costs. This sometimes occurs today as well, but very rarely. A geisha and her danna may or may not be in love, but intimacy is never viewed as a reward for the danna's financial support. While it is true that a geisha is free to pursue personal relationships with men she meets through her work, such relationships are carefully chosen and unlikely to be casual. A hanamachi tends to be a very tight-knit community and a geisha's good reputation is not taken lightly.\n\nDuring the period of the Allied occupation of Japan, local women called \"Geisha girls\" worked as prostitutes. They almost exclusively serviced American GIs stationed in the country, who actually referred to them as \"Geesha girls\" (a mispronunciation). These women dressed in \"kimono\" and imitated the look of geisha. Many Americans unfamiliar with the Japanese culture could not tell the difference between legitimate geisha and these costumed performers. Shortly after their arrival in 1945, some occupying American GIs are said to have congregated in Ginza and shouted, \"We want geesha girls!\" \n\nEventually, the English term \"geisha girl\" became a general word for any female Japanese prostitute or worker in the mizu shōbai and included bar hostesses and streetwalkers.\n\nGeisha girls are speculated by researchers to be largely responsible for the continuing misconception in the West that all geisha are engaged in prostitution.\n\nMizuage () was a ceremony undergone by a maiko where she was promoted to senior status and changed her hairstyle from the junior wareshinobu to the senior ofuku. A ritual deflowering, also called mizuage, was practiced among prostitutes and geisha in smaller towns where these occupations often blurred lines. Prostitutes posing as geisha often used this term to refer to their acts with customers, which lead to great confusion when such prostitutes often called themselves \"geisha\" in the company of foreign soldiers and even Japanese customers.\n\nMizuage literally means \"raising the waters\" and originally meant unloading a ship's cargo of fish. Over time, the word came to represent money earned in the entertainment business.\n\nA geisha's appearance changes throughout her career, from the girlish, heavily made-up maiko, to the more somber appearance of an older established geisha. Different hairstyles and hairpins signify different stages of a girl's development and even a detail as minute as the length of one's eyebrows is significant. Short eyebrows are for the young and long eyebrows display maturity.\n\nIn modern times the traditional makeup of apprentice geisha is one of their most recognizable characteristics, though established geisha generally only wear full white face makeup characteristic of maiko during special performances.\n\nThe traditional makeup of an apprentice geisha features a thick white base with red lipstick and red and black accents around the eyes and eyebrows. Originally, the white base mask was made with lead; after the discovery that it poisoned the skin and caused terrible skin and back problems for the older geisha towards the end of the Meiji Era, it was replaced with rice powder.\n\nThe application of makeup is hard to perfect and is time-consuming. Makeup is applied before dressing to avoid dirtying the kimono. First, a wax or oil substance called \"bintsuke-abura\" is applied to the skin. Next, white powder is mixed with water into a paste and applied with a bamboo brush starting from the neck and working upwards. The white makeup covers the face, neck, and chest, with two or three unwhitened areas (forming a \"W\" or \"V\" shape, usually a traditional \"W\" shape) left on the nape, to accentuate this traditionally erotic area, and a line of bare skin around the hairline, which creates the illusion of a mask.\n\nAfter the foundation layer is applied, a sponge is patted all over the face, throat, chest, the nape and neck to remove excess moisture and to blend the foundation. Next the eyes and eyebrows are drawn in. Traditionally, charcoal was used, but today, modern cosmetics are used. The eyebrows and edges of the eyes are coloured black with a thin charcoal; a maiko also applies red around her eyes.\n\nThe lips are filled in using a small brush. The colour comes in a small stick, which is melted in water. Crystallized sugar is then added to give the lips luster. Rarely will a geisha colour in both lips fully in the Western style, as white creates optical illusions and colouring the lips fully would make them appear overly large. The lower lip is coloured in partially and the upper lip left white for maiko in her first year, after which the upper lip is coloured. Newly full-fledged geisha will colour in only the top lip fully. Most geisha wear the top lip coloured in fully or stylized, and the bottom lip in a curved stripe that does not follow the shape of the lip. Geisha round the bottom lips to create the illusion of a flower bud.\n\nMaiko who are in their last stage of training sometimes colour their teeth black for a brief period. This practice used to be common among married women in Japan and, earlier, at the imperial court, but survives only in some districts. It is done partly because uncoloured teeth seem very yellow in contrast to white face makeup; colouring the teeth black means that they seem to \"disappear\" in the darkness of the open mouth. This illusion is of course more pronounced at a distance.\n\nFor the first year, a maiko wears this heavy makeup almost constantly. During her initiation, the maiko is helped with her makeup either by her \"onee-san\", or \"older sister\" (an experienced geisha who is her mentor), or by the \"okaa-san\", or \"mother\" of her geisha house. After this, she applies the makeup herself.\n\nAfter a maiko has been working for three years, she changes her make-up to a more subdued style. The reason for this is that she has now become mature, and the simpler style shows her own natural beauty. For formal occasions, the mature geisha will still apply white make-up. For geisha over thirty, the heavy white make-up is only worn during those special dances that require it.\n\nGeisha always wear kimono. Apprentice geisha wear highly colourful kimono with extravagant obi. The obi is brighter than the kimono she is wearing to give a certain exotic balance. Maiko of Kyoto wear the obi tied in a style called \"darari\" (dangling obi), while Tokyo \"hangyoku\" wear it tied in various ways, including taiko musubi. Older geisha of Kyoto wear more subdued patterns and styles (most notably the obi tied in a simpler knot used by married women known as the \"taiko musubi\" (), or \"drum knot\"). Tokyo and Kanazawa geisha wear , taiko musubi and .\n\nThe colour, pattern, and style of \"kimono\" is dependent on the season and the event the geisha is attending. A \"kimono\" can take from two to three years to complete, due to painting and embroidering.\n\nGeiko wear red or pink \"nagajuban\", or under-kimono. A maiko wears red with white printed patterns. The junior maiko's collar is predominantly red with white, silver, or gold embroidery. Two to three years into her apprenticeship, the red collar will be entirely embroidered in white (when viewed from the front) to show her seniority. When she becomes a fully fledged geisha her collar will turn from red to solid white.\n\nGeisha wear raised wooden sandals, called \"geta\" while maiko wear a special wooden sandal known as \"okobo\" and wear only \"tabi\" (white split-toed socks) indoors. Geisha and apprentices wear the flat-soled sandal \"zōri\" outdoors during inclement weather.\n\nThe hairstyles of geisha have varied through history. In the past, it has been common for women to wear their hair down in some periods and up in others. During the 17th century, women began putting all their hair up again, and it is during this time that the traditional shimada hairstyle, a type of chignon worn by most established geisha, developed.\n\nThere are two major types of the shimada seen in the karyukai: the \"Taka Shimada\", a high mage (high section) usually worn by young, single women and the \"Tsubushi Shimada\", a more flattened mage generally worn by older women Additional hairstyles for maiko include Wareshinobu, Ofuku, Katsuyama, Yakko Shimada, and Sakkō. Maiko of Pontocho will wear an additional six hairstyles leading up to Sakkō, including Oshidori, Kikugasane, Yuiwata, Suisha, Oshun, and Osafune.\n\nThese hairstyles are decorated with elaborate hair-combs and hairpins (kanzashi). Beginning In the seventeenth century and continuing through the Meiji Restoration period, hair-combs were large and conspicuous, generally more ornate for higher-class women. Following the Meiji Restoration and into the modern era, smaller and less conspicuous hair-combs became more popular.\n\nMaiko sleep with their necks on small supports (takamakura), instead of pillows, so they keep their hairstyle perfect. Even if there are no accidents, a maiko will need her hair styled every week. Many modern geisha use wigs in their professional lives, while maiko use their natural hair. Either must be regularly tended by highly skilled artisans. Traditional hairstyling is a slowly dying art. Over time, the hairstyle can cause balding on the top of the head.\n\nA growing number of geisha have complained to the authorities about being pursued down the street and tugged on the sleeves of their kimonos by groups of tourists keen to take their photograph. As a result, residents and local businesses have joined forces to protect the geisha by launching patrols of the streets of Kyoto's Gion entertainment district in order to prevent tourists from pestering them.\n\nMany stories are told about geisha. This includes Arthur Golden's popular English-language novel \"Memoirs of a Geisha\" which was adapted into a film in 2005.\n\n\nVideo Games About Geisha\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44706", "title": "Genre", "text": "Genre\n\nGenre () is any form or type of communication in any mode (written, spoken, digital, artistic, etc.) with socially-agreed upon conventions developed over time. Genre is most popularly known as a category of literature, music, or other forms of art or entertainment, whether written or spoken, audio or visual, based on some set of stylistic criteria, yet genres can be aesthetic, rhetorical, communicative, or functional. Genres form by conventions that change over time as cultures invent new genres and discontinue the use of old ones. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions. Stand-alone texts, works, or pieces of communication may have individual styles, but genres are amalgams of these texts based on agreed-upon or socially inferred conventions. Some genres may have rigid, strictly adhered-to guidelines, while others may show great flexibility.\n\nGenre began as an absolute classification system for ancient Greek literature. Poetry (odes, epics, etc.), prose, and performance each had a specific and calculated style that related to the theme of the story. Speech patterns for comedy would not be appropriate for tragedy, and even actors were restricted to their genre under the assumption that a type of person could tell one type of story best.\n\nIn later periods genres proliferated and developed in response to changes in audiences and creators. Genre became a dynamic tool to help the public make sense out of unpredictable art. Because art is often a response to a social state, in that people write/paint/sing/dance about what they know about, the use of genre as a tool must be able to adapt to changing meanings.\n\nGenre suffers from the ills of any classification system. It has been suggested that genres resonate with people because of the familiarity, the shorthand communication, as well as because of the tendency of genres to shift with public mores and to reflect the zeitgeist. While the genre of storytelling has been relegated as lesser form of art because of the heavily borrowed nature of the conventions, admiration has grown. Proponents argue that the genius of an effective genre piece is in the variation, recombination, and evolution of the codes.\n\nThe term \"genre\" is much used in the history and criticism of visual art, but in art history has meanings that overlap rather confusingly. Genre painting is a term for paintings where the main subject features human figures to whom no specific identity attachesin other words, figures are not portraits, characters from a story, or allegorical personifications. These are distinguished from staffage: incidental figures in what is primarily a landscape or architectural painting. \"Genre painting\" may also be used as a wider term covering genre painting proper, and other specialized types of paintings such as still-life, landscapes, marine paintings and animal paintings.\n\nThe concept of the \"hierarchy of genres\" was a powerful one in artistic theory, especially between the 17th and 19th centuries. It was strongest in France, where it was associated with the Académie française which held a central role in academic art. The genres in hierarchical order are:\n\nA literary genre is a category of literary composition. Genres may be determined by literary technique, tone, content, or even (as in the case of fiction) length. Genre should not be confused with age category, by which literature may be classified as either adult, young adult, or children's. They also must not be confused with format, such as graphic novel or picture book. The distinctions between genres and categories are flexible and loosely defined, often with subgroups.\n\nThe most general genres in literature are (in loose chronological order) epic, tragedy, comedy, novel, and short story. They can all be in the genres prose or poetry, which shows best how loosely genres are defined. Additionally, a genre such as satire might appear in any of the above, not only as a subgenre but as a mixture of genres. Finally, they are defined by the general cultural movement of the historical period in which they were composed. In popular fiction, which is especially divided by genres, genre fiction is the more usual term.\n\nIn literature, genre has been known as an intangible taxonomy. This taxonomy implies a concept of containment or that an idea will be stable forever.The earliest recorded systems of genre in Western history can be traced back to Plato and Aristotle. Gérard Genette, a French literary theorist and author of \"The Architext\", describes Plato as creating three Imitational genres: dramatic dialogue, pure narrative, and epic (a mixture of dialogue and narrative). Lyric poetry, the fourth and final type of Greek literature, was excluded by Plato as a non-mimetic mode. Aristotle later revised Plato's system by eliminating the pure narrative as a viable mode and distinguishing by two additional criteria: the object to be imitated, as objects could be either superior or inferior, and the medium of presentation such as words, gestures or verse. Essentially, the three categories of mode, object, and medium can be visualized along an XYZ axis.\n\nExcluding the criteria of medium, Aristotle's system distinguished four types of classical genres: tragedy (superior-dramatic dialogue), epic (superior-mixed narrative), comedy (inferior-dramatic dialogue), and parody (inferior-mixed narrative). Genette continues by explaining the later integration of lyric poetry into the classical system during the romantic period, replacing the now removed pure narrative mode. Lyric poetry, once considered non-mimetic, was deemed to imitate feelings, becoming the third leg of a new tripartite system: lyrical, epical, and dramatic dialogue. This system, which came to \"dominate all the literary theory of German romanticism (and therefore well beyond)…\" (38), has seen numerous attempts at expansion or revision. However, more ambitious efforts to expand the tripartite system resulted in new taxonomic systems of increasing scope and complexity.\n\nGenette reflects upon these various systems, comparing them to the original tripartite arrangement: \"its structure is somewhat superior to…those that have come after, fundamentally flawed as they are by their inclusive and hierarchical taxonomy, which each time immediately brings the whole game to a standstill and produces an impasse\" (74). Taxonomy allows for a structured classification system of genre, as opposed to a more contemporary rhetorical model of genre.\n\nThe basic genres of film can be regarded as drama, in the feature film and most cartoons, and documentary. Most dramatic feature films, especially from Hollywood fall fairly comfortably into one of a long list of film genres such as the Western, war film, horror film, romantic comedy film, musical, crime film, and many others. Many of these genres have a number of subgenres, for example by setting or subject, or a distinctive national style, for example in the Indian Bollywood musical.\n\nA music genre is a conventional category that identifies pieces of music as belonging to a shared tradition or set of conventions. It is to be distinguished from \"musical form\" and \"musical style\", although in practice these terms are sometimes used interchangeably. There are numerous genres in Western classical music and popular music, as well as musical theatre and the music of non-Western cultures. The term is now perhaps over-used to describe relatively small differences in musical style in modern rock music, that also may reflect sociological differences in their audiences. Timothy Laurie suggests that in the context of rock and pop music studies, the \"appeal of genre criticism is that it makes narratives out of musical worlds that often seem to lack them\".\n\nMusic can be divided into different genres in several ways. The artistic nature of music means that these classifications are often arbitrary and controversial, and some genres may overlap. There are several academic approaches to genres. In his book \"Form in Tonal Music\", Douglass M. Green lists madrigal, motet, canzona, ricercar, and dance as examples of genres from the Renaissance period. According to Green, \"Beethoven's \"Op. 61\" and Mendelssohn's \"Op. 64\" are identical in genre – both are violin concertos – but different in form. However, Mozart's \"Rondo for Piano, K. 511\", and the \"Agnus Dei\" from his \"Mass, K. 317\" are quite different in genre but happen to be similar in form.\" Some, like Peter van der Merwe, treat the terms \"genre\" and \"style\" as the same, saying that \"genre\" should be defined as pieces of music that share a certain style or \"basic musical language\".\n\nOthers, such as Allan F. Moore, state that \"genre\" and \"style\" are two separate terms, and that secondary characteristics such as subject matter can also differentiate between genres. A music genre or subgenre may be defined by the musical techniques, the styles, the context, and content and spirit of the themes. Geographical origin is sometimes used to identify a music genre, though a single geographical category will often include a wide variety of subgenres.\n\nSeveral music scholars have criticised the priority accorded to genre-based communities and listening practices. For example, Laurie argues that \"music genres do not belong to isolated, self-sufficient communities. People constantly move between environments where diverse forms of music are heard, advertised and accessorised with distinctive iconographies, narratives and celebrity identities that also touch on non-musical worlds.\"\n\nThe concept of genre is often applied, sometimes rather loosely, to other media with an artistic element, such as video game genres. Genre, and numerous minutely divided subgenres, affect popular culture very significantly, not least as they are used to classify it for publicity purposes. The vastly increased output of popular culture in the age of electronic media encourages dividing cultural products by genre to simplify the search for products by consumers, a trend the Internet has only intensified.\n\nIn philosophy of language, genre figures prominently in the works of philosopher and literary scholar Mikhail Bakhtin. Bakhtin's basic observations were of \"speech genres\" (the idea of heteroglossia), modes of speaking or writing that people learn to mimic, weave together, and manipulate (such as \"formal letter\" and \"grocery list\", or \"university lecture\" and \"personal anecdote\"). In this sense, genres are socially specified: recognized and defined (often informally) by a particular culture or community. The work of Georg Lukács also touches on the nature of literary genres, appearing separately but around the same time (1920s–1930s) as Bakhtin. Norman Fairclough has a similar concept of genre that emphasizes the social context of the text: Genres are \"different ways of (inter)acting discoursally\" (Fairclough, 2003: 26).\n\nA text's genre may be determined by its:\n\n\nIn the field of rhetoric, genre theorists usually understand genres as types of actions rather than types or forms of texts. On this perspective, texts are channels through which genres are enacted. Carolyn Miller's work has been especially important for this perspective. Drawing on Lloyd Bitzer's concept of rhetorical situation, Miller reasons that recurring rhetorical problems tend to elicit recurring responses; drawing on Alfred Schütz, she reasons that these recurring responses become \"typified\" – that is, socially constructed as recognizable types. Miller argues that these \"typified rhetorical actions\" (p. 151) are properly understood as genres.\n\nBuilding off of Miller, Charles Bazerman and Clay Spinuzzi have argued that genres understood as actions derive their meaning from other genres – that is, other actions. Bazerman therefore proposes that we analyze genres in terms of \"genre systems\", while Spinuzzi prefers the closely related concept of \"genre ecologies\".\n\nThis tradition has had implications for the teaching of writing in American colleges and universities. Combining rhetorical genre theory with activity theory, David Russell has proposed that standard English composition courses are ill-suited to teach the genres that students will write in other contexts across the university and beyond. Elizabeth Wardle contends that standard composition courses do teach genres, but that these are inauthentic \"mutt genres\" that are often of little use outside of composition courses.\n\nThis concept of genre originated from the classification systems created by Plato. Plato divided literature into the three classic genres accepted in Ancient Greece: poetry, drama, and prose. Poetry is further subdivided into epic, lyric, and drama. The divisions are recognized as being set by Aristotle and Plato; however, they were not the only ones. Many genre theorists added to these accepted forms of poetry.\n\nThe earliest recorded systems of genre in Western history can be traced back to Plato and Aristotle. Gérard Genette explains his interpretation of the history of genre in \"The Architext\". He described Plato as the creator of three imitational, mimetic genres distinguished by mode of imitation rather than content. These three imitational genres include dramatic dialogue, the drama; pure narrative, the dithyramb; and a mixture of the two, the epic. Plato excluded lyric poetry as a non-mimetic, imitational mode. Genette further discussed how Aristotle revised Plato's system by first eliminating the pure narrative as a viable mode. He then uses two additional criteria to distinguish the system. The first of the criteria is the object to be imitated, whether superior or inferior. The second criterion is the medium of presentation: words, gestures, or verse. Essentially, the three categories of mode, object, and medium can be visualized along an XYZ axis. Excluding the criteria of medium, Aristotle's system distinguished four types of classical genres: tragedy, epic, comedy, and parody.\n\nGenette explained the integration of lyric poetry into the classical system by replacing the removed pure narrative mode. Lyric poetry, once considered non-mimetic, was deemed to imitate feelings, becoming the third \"Architext\", a term coined by Gennette, of a new long-enduring tripartite system: lyrical; epical, the mixed narrative; and dramatic, the dialogue. This new system that came to \"dominate all the literary theory of German romanticism\" (Genette 38) has seen numerous attempts at expansion and revision. Such attempts include Friedrich Schlegel's triad of subjective form, the lyric; objective form, the dramatic; and subjective-objective form, the epic. However, more ambitious efforts to expand the tripartite system resulted in new taxonomic systems of increasing complexity. Gennette reflected upon these various systems, comparing them to the original tripartite arrangement: \"its structure is somewhat superior to most of those that have come after, fundamentally flawed as they are by their inclusive and hierarchical taxonomy, which each time immediately brings the whole game to a standstill and produces an impasse\".\n\nGenre is embedded in culture but may clash with it at times. There are occasions in which a cultural group may not be inclined to keep within the set structures of a genre. Anthony Pare's studied Inuit social workers in \"Genre and Identity: Individuals, Institutions and Ideology\". In this study, Pare described the conflict between the genre of Inuit social workers' record keeping forms and the cultural values that prohibited them from fully being able to fulfill the expectations of this genre. Amy Devitt further expands on the concept of culture in her 2004 essay, \"A Theory of Genre\" by adding \"culture defines what situations and genres are likely or possible\" (Devitt 24).\n\nGenre not only coexists with culture but also defines its very components. Genres abound in daily life and people often work within them unconsciously; people often take for granted their prominence and ever present residence in society. Devitt touches on Miller's idea of situation, but expands on it and adds that the relationship with genre and situation is reciprocal. Individuals may find themselves shaping the rhetorical situations, which in turn affect the rhetorical responses that arise out of the situation. Because the social workers worked closely with different families, they did not want to disclose many of the details that are standard in the genre of record keeping related to this field. Giving out such information would violate close cultural ties with the members of their community.\n\nAlthough genres are not always precisely definable, genre considerations are one of the most important factors in determining what a person will see or read. The classification properties of genre can attract or repel potential users depending on the individual's understanding of a genre.\n\nGenre creates an expectation in that expectation is met or not. Many genres have built-in audiences and corresponding publications that support them, such as magazines and websites. Inversely, audiences may call out for change in an antecedent genre and create an entirely new genre.\n\nThe term may be used in categorizing web pages, like \"news page\" and \"fan page\", with both very different layout, audience, and intention (Rosso, 2008). Some search engines like Vivísimo try to group found web pages into automated categories in an attempt to show various genres the search hits might fit.\n\nA subgenre is a subordinate within a genre. Two stories being the same genre can still sometimes differ in subgenre. For example, if a fantasy story has darker and more frightening elements of fantasy, it would belong in the subgenre of dark fantasy; whereas another fantasy story that features magic swords and wizards would belong to the subgenre of sword and sorcery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58502137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58502137", "title": "Gjergj Pekmezi", "text": "Gjergj Pekmezi\n\nGjergj Pekmezi (3 April 1872 - 4 February 1938) was an Albanian linguist, philosopher and folklorist. In 1916, he became a member of the Literary Commission of Shkodër, which established the first standard form of the Albanian language.\nPekmezi was born in Tushemisht, Pogradec (modern day Albania). He began his initial studies in Ohrid and Monastir, moving on to Belgrade from 1890-1894. He later graduated from the University of Vienna in philosophy and philology in 1898. After his graduation, Pekmezi returned to Albania. \n\nIn 1903, Pekmezi was elected to direct the Albanian language cathedra at the Oriental University of Vienna. He founded the cultural-patriotic society Dija (Knowledge) in 1904 with Hile Mosi, Kolë Rrota and other Albanian intellectuals. In the late Ottoman period, Austria-Hungary subsidized two of Pekmezi's works: \"Albanesische Bibliographie\" and \"Albanianische Grammatik\".\n\nDuring the autumn of 1913, Pekmezi worked for the border commission in southern Albania and in March 1914 was appointed \"dragoman\" (interpreter/secretary) at the new Austro–Hungarian mission in Durrës. In 1916, he was a leading member of the Albanian Literary Commission in Shkodër under the auspices of Austro–Hungary. In April 1917 he accompanied and facilitated the delegation of Albanian chieftains and leaders who visited Vienna and met with the Imperial authorities with an invitation by Ignaz Freiherr Trollmann. \n\nFrom 1920 to 1924 and 1926 to 1928, he served as Albanian consul in Austria. In 1924 he published a new edition of Thimi Mitko's \"Bleta Shqipëtare\" using the modern Albanian alphabet. Pekmezi's work became at that time the best-known edition of \"Bleta Shqipëtare\". \n\nFrom 1928 until his death, he taught Albanian at the University of Vienna. The Albanology branch of the University of Vienna bears his name.\n\nA high school located in Rruga Driloni, Pogradec, Albania is named Gjergj Pekmezi High School.\n\nGjergj Pekmezi was the author of:\n\n"}
{"id": "51566793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51566793", "title": "Gustave Fougères", "text": "Gustave Fougères\n\nGustave Fougères (24 April 1863, Baume-les-Dames (Doubs) – 7 December 1927, Paris, aged 64) was a French archaeologist, spécialist of archaic Greece.\n\nA student of the École normale supérieure, he joined the French School at Athens in 1885. He explored Thessaly and Anatolia and searched the gymnasium of Delos (1886) and the ancient city of Mantineia with its elliptical rampart (1887–1888).\n\nHe taught in Lille and Paris, traveling through Greece repeatedly and published his \"Guide de la Grèce\".\n\nIn 1913, after he became director of the French School at Athens, he continued the excavations already begun at Delos, Thasos and Philippi and opened new sites in Macedonia and Anatolia (Claros, Aphrodisias). Archaeological research in Greece were interrupted by First World War.\n\nHe taught archaeology at the Sorbonne from 1919. His courses attracted many foreign students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37158590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37158590", "title": "Heinrich Zimmern", "text": "Heinrich Zimmern\n\nHeinrich Zimmern (14 July 1862 in Graben – 17 February 1931 in Leipzig, 1931) was a German Assyriologist. He was the first professor of Assyriology at Leipzig University, and considered the founder of the discipline of the history of the ancient Near Eastern religions in Germany.\n\nFrom 1881 to 1885 he studied theology and Semitic languages at the universities of Leipzig and Berlin, receiving his habilitation for Semitic languages in 1889 at the University of Königsberg. In 1894 he became an associate professor of Assyriology to the faculty of philosophy at Leipzig, where from 1900 to 1929 he served as a full professor.\n\n"}
{"id": "35619800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35619800", "title": "History of Social Security in the United States", "text": "History of Social Security in the United States\n\nA limited form of the Social Security program began as a measure to implement \"social insurance\" during the Great Depression of the 1930s, when poverty rates among senior citizens exceeded 50 percent.\n\nThe Social Security Act was enacted August 14, 1935. The Act was drafted during President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first term by the President's Committee on Economic Security, under Frances Perkins, and passed by Congress as part of the New Deal. The Act was an attempt to limit what were seen as dangers in the modern American life, including old age, poverty, unemployment, and the burdens of widows and fatherless children. By signing this Act on August 14, 1935, President Roosevelt became the first president to advocate federal assistance for the elderly.\n\nThe Act provided benefits to retirees and the unemployed, and a lump-sum benefit at death. Payments to current retirees are financed by a payroll tax on current workers' wages, half directly as a payroll tax and half paid by the employer. The act also gave money to states to provide assistance to aged individuals (Title I), for unemployment insurance (Title III), Aid to Families with Dependent Children (Title IV), Maternal and Child Welfare (Title V), public health services (Title VI), and the blind (Title X).\n\nThe idea of a federally funded pension plan was popularized by Francis Townsend in 1933, and the influence of the \"Townsend Plan\" movement on debate over social security persisted into the 1950s. Early debates on Social Security's design centered on how the program's benefits should be funded. Some believed that benefits to individuals should be funded by contributions that they themselves had made over the course of their careers. Others argued that this design would disadvantage those who had already begun their careers at the time of the program's implementation because they would not have enough time to accumulate adequate benefits.\n\nSocial Security was controversial when originally proposed, with one point of opposition being that it would reduce the labor force, but supporters argued instead that retiring older workers would free up employment for young men, which during the Depression was a vital point of concern.\n\nOpponents also decried the proposal as socialism. In a Senate Finance Committee hearing, one Senator asked Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins, \"Isn't this socialism?\" She said that it was not, but he continued, \"Isn't this a teeny-weeny bit of socialism?\"\n\nMost women and minorities were excluded from the benefits of unemployment insurance and old age pensions. Job categories that were not covered by the act included workers in agricultural labor, domestic service, government employees, and many teachers, nurses, hospital employees, librarians, and social workers. The act also denied coverage to individuals who worked intermittently. These jobs were dominated by women and minorities. For example, women made up 90 percent of domestic labor in 1940 and two-thirds of all employed black women were in domestic service. Exclusions exempted nearly half of the working population. Nearly two-thirds of all African Americans in the labor force, 70 to 80 percent in some areas in the South, and just over half of all women employed were not covered by Social Security. At the time, the NAACP protested the Social Security Act, describing it as \"a sieve with holes just big enough for the majority of Negroes to fall through.\"\n\nSome writers have suggested that this discrimination resulted from the powerful position of Southern Democrats on two of the committees pivotal for the Act's creation, the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee. However, Larry DeWitt has refuted those arguments, showing there was no evidence for them. Indeed, southern Democrats in 1935 were generally liberal and strongly supported of the New Deal and Social Security. They became much more conservative after 1937. The Social Security law was very unpopular among many groups, especially farmers, who resented the additional taxes and feared they would never be made good. They lobbied hard for exclusion. Furthermore, the Treasury realized how difficult it would be to set up payroll deduction plans for farmers, for housekeepers who employed maids, and for nonprofit groups; therefore they were excluded. State employees were excluded for constitutional reasons (the federal government cannot tax state government). Federal employees were also excluded. Many textbooks, however, falsely indicate that the exclusions were the product of southern racial hostility toward blacks; there is no evidence of that in the record. Other scholars have replicated and endorsed DeWitt's analysis, agreeing that the exclusions were made by policy experts on technical grounds and were not grounded on racial hostility. Rodems and Shaefer note in all other countries unemployment insurance programs \"excluded domestic and agricultural workers when they were first implemented, a fact that the key New Deal policy makers were well aware of.\" The exclusions followed consultation with leading experts in Europe as well as the United States, including William Beveridge, Henry Steel-Maitland, and R.C. Davison in Britain, Andre Tixier of the International Labour Organization, and Edwin Witte, Wilbur J. Cohen, and Evelyn Burns in the United States.\n\nSocial Security reinforced traditional views of family life. Women generally qualified for benefits only through their husbands or children. Mothers' pensions (Title IV) based entitlements on the presumption that mothers would be unemployed.\n\nHistorical discrimination in the system can also be seen with regard to Aid to Dependent Children. Since this money was allocated to the states to distribute, some localities assessed black families as needing less money than white families. These low grant levels made it impossible for African American mothers to not work: one requirement of the program. Some states also excluded children born out of wedlock, an exclusion which affected African American women more than white women. One study determined that 14.4% of eligible white individuals received funding, but only 1.5 percent of eligible black individuals received these benefits.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Supreme Court struck down many pieces of Roosevelt's New Deal legislation, including the Railroad Retirement Act. The Social Security Act's similarity with the Railroad Retirement Act caused Edwin Witte, the executive director of the President's Committee on Economic Security under Roosevelt who was credited as \"the father of social security,\" to question whether or not the bill would pass; John Gall, an Associate Counsel for the National Association of Manufacturers who testified before the US House of Representatives in favor of the act, also felt that the bill was rushed through Congress too quickly and that the old age provision of the act was \"hodgepodge\" that needed to be written more properly in order to have a higher likelihood of being ruled constitutional. The Court threw out a centerpiece of the New Deal, the National Industrial Recovery Act, the Agricultural Adjustment Act, and New York State's minimum-wage law. President Roosevelt responded with an attempt to pack the court via the Judicial Procedures Reform Bill of 1937. On February 5, 1937, he sent a special message to Congress proposing legislation granting the President new powers to add additional judges to all federal courts whenever there were sitting judges age 70 or older who refused to retire. The practical effect of this proposal was that the President would get to appoint six new Justices to the Supreme Court (and 44 judges to lower federal courts), thus instantly tipping the political balance on the Court dramatically in his favor. The debate on this proposal was heated and widespread, and lasted over six months. Beginning with a set of decisions in March, April, and May, 1937 (including the Social Security Act cases), the Court would sustain a series of New Deal legislation.\n\nTwo Supreme Court rulings affirmed the constitutionality of the Social Security Act.\n\nThe first reported Social Security payment was to Ernest Ackerman, a Cleveland motorman who retired only one day after Social Security began. Five cents were withheld from his pay during that period, and he received a lump-sum payout of seventeen cents from Social Security.\n\nThe first monthly payment was issued on January 31, 1940 to Ida May Fuller of Ludlow, Vermont. In 1937, 1938, and 1939, she paid a total of $24.75 into the Social Security System. Her first check was for $22.54. After her second check, Fuller already had received more than she contributed over the three-year period. She ultimately reached her 100th birthday, dying in 1975 and she collected a total of $22,888.92.\n\nThe provisions of Social Security have been changing since the 1930s, shifting in response to economic worries as well as concerns over changing gender roles and the position of minorities. Officials have responded more to the concerns of women than those of minority groups. Social Security gradually moved toward universal coverage. By 1950, debates moved away from which occupational groups should be included to how to provide more adequate coverage. Changes in Social Security have reflected a balance between promoting equality and efforts to provide adequate protection.\n\nIn 1940, benefits paid totaled $35 million. These rose to $961 million in 1950, $11.2 billion in 1960, $31.9 billion in 1970, $120.5 billion in 1980, and $247.8 billion in 1990 (all figures in nominal dollars, not adjusted for inflation). In 2004, $492 billion of benefits were paid to 47.5 million beneficiaries. In 2009, nearly 51 million Americans received $650 billion in Social Security benefits.\n\nThe effects of Social Security took decades to manifest themselves. In 1950, it was reported that as many as 40% of Americans over 65 were still employed in some capacity, but by 1980 that figure had dropped to less than 20%. In 1990, fewer than 11% of Americans over 65 were still employed, an all-time low after which the number began to slowly rise again.\n\nDuring the 1950s, over-65s continued to have the highest poverty rate of any age group in the US with the largest percentage of the nation's wealth concentrated in the hands of Americans under 35. By 2010, this figure had dramatically reversed itself with the largest percentage of wealth being in the hands of Americans aged 55–75 and those under 45 being among the poorest. Elder poverty, once a normal sight, had thus become rare by the 21st century.\n\nOne reason for the proposed changes in 1939 was a growing concern over the impact that the reserves created by the 1935 act were having on the economy. The Recession of 1937 was blamed on the government, tied to the abrupt decrease in government spending and the $2 billion that had been collected in Social Security taxes. Benefits became available in 1940 instead of 1942 and changes to the benefit formula increased the amount of benefits available to all recipients in the early years of Social Security. These two policies combined to shrink the size of the reserves. The original Act had conceived of the program as paying benefits out of a large reserve. This Act shifted the conception of Social Security into something of a hybrid system; while reserves would still accumulate, most early beneficiaries would receive benefits on the pay-as-you-go system.\nJust as importantly, the changes also delayed planned rises in contribution rates. Ironically if these had been left in place they would have come into effect during the wartime boom in wages and would have arguably helped to temper wartime inflation.\n\nThe amendments established a trust fund for any surplus funds. The managing trustee of this fund is the Secretary of the Treasury. The money could be invested in both non-marketable and marketable securities.\n\nCalls for reform of Social Security emerged within a few years of the 1935 Act. Even as early as 1936, some believed that women were not getting enough support. Worried that a lack of assistance might push women back into the work force, these individuals wanted Social Security changes that would prevent this. In an effort to protect the family, therefore, some called for reform which tied women's aid more concretely to their dependency on their husbands. Others expressed apprehension about the complicated administrative practices of Social Security. Concerns about the size of the reserve fund of the retirement program, emphasized by a recession in 1937, led to further calls for change.\n\nThese amendments, however, avoided the question of the large numbers of workers in excluded categories. Instead, the amendments of 1939 made family protection a part of Social Security. This included increased federal funding for the Aid to Dependent Children and raised the maximum age of children eligible to receive money under the Aid to Dependent Children to 18. The amendment added wives, elderly widows, and dependent survivors of covered male workers to those who could receive old age pensions. These individuals had previously been granted lump-sum payments upon only death or coverage through the Aid to Dependent Children program. If a married wage-earning woman's own benefit was worth less than 50% of her husband's benefit, she was treated as a wife, not a worker. If a woman who was covered by Social Security died, however, her dependents were ineligible for her benefits. Since support for widows was dependent on the husband being a covered worker, African American widows were severely underrepresented and unaided by these changes.\n\nIn order to assure fiscal conservatives who worried about the costs of adding family protection policies, the benefits for single workers were decreased and lump-sum death payments were abolished.\n\nIn the original 1935 law, the benefit provisions were in Title II of the Act (which is why Social Security is sometimes referred to as the \"Title II\" program.) The taxing provisions were in a separate title (Title VIII) (for reasons related to the constitutionality of the 1935 Act). As part of the 1939 Amendments, the Title VIII taxing provisions were taken out of the Social Security Act and placed in the Internal Revenue Code and renamed the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA). Social Security payroll taxes are thus often referred to as \"FICA taxes.\"\n\nAfter years of debates about the inclusion of domestic labor, household employees working at least two days a week for the same person were added in 1950, along with nonprofit workers and the self-employed. Hotel workers, laundry workers, all agricultural workers, and state and local government employees were added in 1954.\n\nIn 1956, the tax rate was raised to 4.0 percent (2.0 percent for the employer, 2.0 percent for the employee) and disability benefits were added. Also in 1956, women were allowed to retire at 62 with benefits reduced by 25 percent. Widows of covered workers were allowed to retire at 62 without the reduction in benefits.\n\nIn 1961, retirement at age 62 was extended to men, and the tax rate was increased to 6.0%.\n\nIn 1962, the changing role of the female worker was acknowledged when benefits of covered women could be collected by dependent husbands, widowers, and children. These individuals, however, had to be able to prove their dependency.\n\nMedicare and Medicaid were added in 1965 by the Social Security Act of 1965, part of President Lyndon B. Johnson's \"Great Society\" program.\n\nIn 1965, the age at which widows could begin collecting benefits was reduced to 60. Widowers were not included in this change. When divorce, rather than death, became the major cause of marriages ending, divorcées were added to the list of recipients. Divorcées over the age of 65 who had been married for at least 20 years, remained unmarried, and could demonstrate dependency on their ex-husbands received benefits.\n\nThe government adopted a unified budget in the Johnson administration in 1968. This change resulted in a single measure of the fiscal status of the government, based on the sum of all government activity. The surplus in Social Security trust funds offsets the total debt, making it appear much smaller than it otherwise would. This allowed Congress to increase spending without having to risk the political consequences of raising taxes.\n\nIn June 1972, both houses of the United States Congress approved by overwhelming majorities 20% increases in benefits for 27.8 million Americans. The average payment per month rose from $133 to $166. The bill also set up a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to take effect in 1975. This adjustment would be made on a yearly basis if the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increased by 3% or more. This addition was an attempt to index benefits to inflation so that benefits would rise automatically. If inflation was 5%, the goal was to automatically increase benefits by 5% so their real value didn't decline. A technical error in the formula caused these adjustments to overcompensate for inflation, a technical mistake which has been called double-indexing. The COLAs actually caused benefits to increase at twice the rate of inflation.\n\nIn October 1972, a $5 billion piece of Social Security legislation was enacted which expanded the Social Security program. For example, minimum monthly benefits of individuals employed in low income positions for at least 30 years were raised. Increases were also made to the pensions of 3.8 million widows and dependent widowers.\n\nThese amendments also established the Supplemental Security Income (SSI). SSI is not a Social Security benefit, but a welfare program, because the elderly and disabled poor are entitled to SSI regardless of work history. Likewise, SSI is not an entitlement, because there is no right to SSI payments.\n\nThroughout the 1950s and 1960s, during the phase-in period of Social Security, Congress was able to grant generous benefit increases because the system had perpetual short-run surpluses. Congressional amendments to Social Security took place in even numbered years (election years) because the bills were politically popular, but by the late 1970s, this era was over. For the next three decades, projections of Social Security's finances would show large, long-term deficits, and in the early 1980s, the program flirted with immediate insolvency. From this point on, amendments to Social Security would take place in odd numbered years (years that were not election years) because Social Security reform now meant tax increases and benefit reductions. Social Security became known as the \"Third Rail of American Politics.\" Touching it meant political death.\n\nSeveral effects came together in the years following the 1972 amendments which rapidly changed the outlook on Social Security's long-term financial picture from positive to problematic. By the 1970s, the phase-in period, during which workers were paying taxes but few were collecting benefits, was largely over, and the ratio of elderly population to the working population was increasing. These developments brought questions about the capacity of the long term financial structure based on a pay-as-you-go program.\n\nDuring the Carter administration, the economy suffered double-digit inflation, coupled with very high interest rates, oil and energy crises, high unemployment and slow economic growth. Productivity growth in the United States had declined to an average annual rate of 1%, compared to an average annual rate increase of 3.2% during the 1960s. There was also a growing federal budget deficit which increased to $66 billion. The 1970s are described as a period of stagflation, meaning economic stagnation coupled with price inflation, as well as higher interest rates. Price inflation (a rise in the general level of prices) creates uncertainty in budgeting and planning and makes labor strikes for pay raises more likely.\nThese underlying negative trends were exacerbated by a colossal mathematical error made in the 1972 amendments establishing the COLAs. The mathematical error which overcompensated for inflation was particularly detrimental given the double-digit inflation of this period, and the error led to benefit increases that were nowhere near financially sustainable.\n\nThe high inflation, double-indexing, and lower than expected wage growth was financial disaster for Social Security.\n\nTo combat the declining financial outlook, in 1977 Congress passed and Carter signed legislation fixing the double-indexing mistake. This amendment also altered the tax formulas to raise more money, increasing withholding from 2% to 6.15%. With these changes, President Carter remarked, \"Now this legislation will guarantee that from 1980 to the year 2030, the Social Security funds will be sound.\" This turned out not to be the case. The financial picture declined almost immediately and by the early 1980s, the system was again in crisis.\n\nAfter the 1977 amendments, the economic assumptions surrounding Social Security projections continued to be overly optimistic as the program moved toward a crisis. For example, COLAs were attached to increases in the CPI. This meant that they changed with prices, instead of wages. Before the 1970s, wage measurements exceeded changes in price. In the 1970s, however, this reversed and real wages decreased. This meant that FICA revenues could not keep up with the increasing benefits that were being given out. Continued high unemployment levels also lowered the amount of Social Security tax that could be collected. These two developments were decreasing the Social Security Trust Fund reserves. In 1982, projections indicated that the Social Security Trust Fund would run out of money by 1983, and there was talk of the system being unable to pay benefits. The National Commission on Social Security Reform, chaired by Alan Greenspan, was created to address the crisis.\n\nThe National Commission on Social Security Reform (NCSSR), chaired by Alan Greenspan, was empaneled to investigate the long-run solvency of Social Security. The 1983 Amendments to the SSA were based on the NCSSR's Final Report. The NCSSR recommended enacting a six-month delay in the COLA and changing the tax-rate schedules for the years between 1984 and 1990. It also proposed an income tax on the Social Security benefits of higher-income individuals. This meant that benefits in excess of a household income threshold, generally $25,000 for singles and $32,000 for couples (the precise formula computes and compares three different measures) became taxable. These changes were important for generating revenue in the short term.\n\nAlso of concern was the long-term prospect for Social Security because of demographic considerations. Of particular concern was the issue of what would happen when people born during the post–World War II baby boom retired. The NCSSR made several recommendations for addressing the issue. Under the 1983 amendments to Social Security, a previously enacted increase in the payroll tax rate was accelerated, additional employees were added to the system, the full-benefit retirement age was slowly increased, and up to one-half of the value of the Social Security benefit was made potentially taxable income.\n\nThe 1983 Amendments also included a provision to exclude the Social Security Trust Fund from the unified budget (to take it \"off-budget.\") Yet today Social Security is treated like all the other trust funds of the Unified Budget.\n\nAs a result of these changes, particularly the tax increases, the Social Security system began to generate a large short-term surplus of funds, intended to cover the added retirement costs of the \"baby boomers.\" Congress invested these surpluses into special series, non-marketable U.S. Treasury securities held by the Social Security Trust Fund. Under the law, the government bonds held by Social Security are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.\n\nThe Supreme Court has established that no one has any legal right to Social Security benefits. The Court decided, in \"Flemming v. Nestor\" (1960), that \"entitlement to Social Security benefits is not a contractual right\". In that case, Ephram Nestor, a Bulgarian immigrant to the United States who made contributions for covered wages for the statutorily required \"quarters of coverage\" was nonetheless denied benefits after being deported in 1956 for being a member of the Communist party.\n\nThe case specifically held:\n2. A person covered by the Social Security Act has not such a right in old-age benefit payments as would make every defeasance of \"accrued\" interests violative of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 608–611. (a) The noncontractual interest of an employee covered by the Act cannot be soundly analogized to that of the holder of an annuity, whose right to benefits are based on his contractual premium payments. Pp. 608–610. (b) To engraft upon the Social Security System a concept of \"accrued property rights\" would deprive it of the flexibility and [363 U.S. 603, 604] boldness in adjustment to ever-changing conditions which it demands and which Congress probably had in mind when it expressly reserved the right to alter, amend or repeal any provision of the Act. Pp. 610–611. 3. Section 202 (n) of the Act cannot be condemned as so lacking in rational justification as to offend due process. Pp. 611–612. 4. Termination of appellee's benefits under 202 (n) does not amount to punishing him without a trial, in violation of Art. III, 2, cl. 3, of the Constitution or the Sixth Amendment; nor is 202 (n) a bill of attainder or ex post facto law, since its purpose is not punitive. Pp. 612–621.[65]\nThe Supreme Court was also responsible for major changes in Social Security. Many of these cases were pivotal in changing the assumptions about differences in wage earning among men and women in the Social Security system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31489973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31489973", "title": "Hotel Lobby", "text": "Hotel Lobby\n\nHotel Lobby is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper; it is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.\n\nThe painting depicts two women and a man in the lobby of a hotel. On the right is a woman with blond hair and a blue dress, sitting with her legs crossed and reading a book. To the left sits an older woman with a red dress, a coat and a hat. A man stands next to her, facing forward, with a suit on and an overcoat draped over his right arm. On the left wall, above the woman, is a framed landscape painting. A clerk behind the reception desk is barely visible in the shadows.\n\n\"Hotel Lobby\" is a signature piece in Hopper's work, displaying his classic themes of alienation and brevity. The Hoppers traveled frequently, staying in many motels and hotels throughout his career. This is one of two works in his catalog that depicts a hotel, the other being \"Hotel Window\" (1955). The older couple are believed to represent Hopper and his wife, at that date in their 60s. The hotel guests have been described as being \"both traveling and suspended in time,\" reflecting a stoic and dramatic feeling, reminiscent of the film noir movies Hopper might have seen and the complex structure and feeling of works by Edgar Degas. \n\nThe painting utilizes harsh light and rigid lines to create a \"carefully constructed\" uncomfortable environment. The elevated and theatrical vantage point of the painting may be derived from Hopper's love of Broadway theatre which he often watched from the balcony.\n\nBefore he created the \"Hotel Lobby\" Hopper drew ten studies of the work, which are in the collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art, as a gift for his wife, Josephine. Nine of the ten studies are described as:\n\nThese studies show the older couple communicating, only to cease their conversation in the final painting and reading man is replaced with a blonde young woman reading in the final painting. The modeling for both women in the painting was done by his wife Josephine. After their marriage in 1920 she insisted on being the model for all of his female figures.\n\nThe coat the older woman wears is based on a fur coat owned by Hopper's wife, a coat she often wore to openings and a rare find in the Hopper's frugal household. \n\nThe red dress that the older woman wears (that Jo, in her journal, describes as \"coral\") signifies anger and extroversion, while the blue dress worn by the younger woman shows youth and distance. Throughout Hopper's sketches the clerk does not appear until the final painting. Under X-ray it can be seen that Hopper did little to change the canvas once he began work. Most alterations were made in the position of the young woman's head and in outlines of some areas in dark blue paint. A partial underdrawing was found but little detail remains.\nHopper was known to model for himself for figures, as in \"Nighthawks\", leading some to believe he may have modeled for the male figure in \"Hotel Lobby\".\n\nOne of the few paintings by Hopper to lack windows, \"Hotel Lobby\" utilizes light from the revolving door and an unseen area from between the ceiling beams.\n\nIn 1945 Hopper was awarded the Logan Medal of the Arts and a $500 honorarium for \"Hotel Lobby\". The painting was chosen by a jury composed of Juliana Force, then director of the Whitney Museum, and artists Raphael Soyer and Reginald Marsh. In regards to the painting, Chicago critic C.J. Bulliet stated that \"Mr. Hopper is getting a little lazy about the excellent formula he has hit. \"Hotel Lobby\" is typical Hopper, but Hopper that has lost something of its kick.\" The artwork has been compared to Hopper's earlier work \"Summer Interior\" (1909), a work that helped to create Hopper's signature style; an intimate setting, simple lines and geometry, flat color usage and moody light. A shadowy figure and a sensual woman each make another visit in \"Hotel Lobby\" as seen in \"Summer Interior\".\n\nThe painting was in the collection of Henry Hope from Bloomington, Indiana.\n\nFrom June until December 2006 the Whitney Museum, which has the largest holding of Hopper's works in the world, displayed \"Hotel Lobby\" alongside their own works and key loans such as \"Nighthawks\" (1942) and \"New York Movie\" (1939). \"Hotel Lobby\" is currently on display in the Indianapolis Museum of Art's American Scene Gallery. In 2008 the IMA exhibited the work alongside the ten studies on loan from the Whitney in \"Edward Hopper: Paper to Paint\", which ran until January 2009.\n\nIn 1996 \"Hotel Lobby\" was used as the paperback cover for the book \"Hotel Paradise\" by Martha Grimes. The painting also appears in \"City Limits: Crime, consumer culture and the urban experience\" by Keith Hayward.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "581819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581819", "title": "Ink brush", "text": "Ink brush\n\nInk brushes (; ; ) are used in Chinese calligraphy as well as Japanese calligraphy and Korean calligraphy which have a root of Chinese calligraphy. They are also used in Chinese painting and other brush painting styles. The brush was invented in China around 300 B.C. Together with the inkstone, inkstick and Xuan paper, these four writing implements form the Four Treasures of the Study.\n\nBrushes differ greatly in terms of size, texture, material, and cost. The brush hair chosen depends on one's needs at the moment; certain kinds of brushes are more suited to certain script styles and individuals than others. \n\nSynthetic hair is not traditionally used. Prices vary greatly depending on the quality of the brush; cheap brushes cost less than one US dollar while expensive brushes can cost more than a thousand dollars. Currently, the finest brushes are made in the town of Shanlian, in the Nanxun District, prefecture-level city of Huzhou, of Zhejiang province.\n\nThe earliest intact ink brush was found in 1954 in the tomb of a Chu citizen from the Warring States period (475-221 BCE) located in an archaeological dig site \"Zuo Gong Shan 15\" near Changsha (長沙). The primitive version of an ink brush found had a wooden stalk and a bamboo tube securing the bundle of hair to the stalk. Legend wrongly credits the invention of the ink brush to the later Qin general Meng Tian.\n\nTraces of the writing brush, however, were discovered on the Shang jades, and were suggested to be the grounds of the oracle bone inscriptions.\n\nThe Fudepen, also known as a \"Brush Pen\", is a modern Japanese invention analogous to a Fountain pen. Today, Japanese companies such as Pentel and Sakura Color Products Corporation manufacture pens with tips resembling those of a small ink brush. These brush pens work almost identically to small ink brushes and can be used for most of the same purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "31010034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31010034", "title": "Islamic miniature", "text": "Islamic miniature\n\nIslamic miniatures are small paintings on paper, usually book or manuscript illustrations but also sometimes separate artworks. The earliest examples date from around 1000 AD, with a flourishing of the artform from around 1200 AD. The field is divided by scholars into four types, Arabic, Mughal (Indian), Ottoman (Turkish), and Persian.\n"}
{"id": "1430048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430048", "title": "John Templeton Foundation", "text": "John Templeton Foundation\n\nThe John Templeton Foundation (Templeton Foundation) is a philanthropic organization that reflects the ideas of its founder, John Templeton, who became wealthy after a career as a contrarian investor and wanted to support progress in religious and spiritual knowledge, especially at the intersection of religion and science. He also wanted to fund research on methods to promote and develop moral character, intelligence, and creativity in people, and to promote free markets. In 2016 \"Inside Philathropy\" called it \"the oddest — or most interesting — big foundation around.\"\n\nTempleton founded the organization in 1987 and ran it until his death in 2008. Templeton's son John Templeton, Jr. ran it until his death in 2015, at which point Templeton, Jr.'s daughter, Heather Templeton Dill, became president.\n\nThe foundation administers the annual Templeton Prize for achievements in the field of spirituality, including those at the intersection of science and religion. It has an extensive grant-funding program (around $70M per year as of 2011) aimed at supporting notions associated with classical liberalism, like \"character development\", \"freedom and free enterprise\", and \"exceptional cognitive talent and genius\". It funded work in intelligent design in the 1990s but then abandoned that activity after it faced sharp criticism from the mainstream scientific community in the 2000s.\n\nMany scholars have raised concerns about the biased nature of the awards, research projects and publications backed by the foundation. According to Guillaume Lecointre of the French National Center for Scientific Research, the Templeton Foundation has links with fundamentalist Protestantism, is openly creationist, and funds projects throughout the world whose aim is to unify science and religion, blurring the epistemological lines between the collective and public empirical enquiry and the individual and private metaphysical conviction. According to Lecointre, this type of private funding would be \"disastrous for the autonomy of scientific research\". The Foundation has also been criticized for supporting Christian-biased research in the field of the scientific study of religions. The Templeton Foundation has had links with the Discovery Institute, an American conservative and creationist think-tank, and other similar organizations.\n\nJohn Templeton (29 November 1912 – 8 July 2008) was an American-born British investor, banker, fund manager, and philanthropist. In 1954, he entered the mutual fund market and created the Templeton Growth Fund. According to a 2011 profile of the foundation: \n\nLike many of his generation, Templeton was a great believer in progress, learning, initiative and the power of human imagination — not to mention the free-enterprise system that allowed him, a middle-class boy from Winchester, Tennessee, to earn billions of dollars on Wall Street. ... Unlike most of his peers, however, Templeton thought that the principles of progress should also apply to religion. He described himself as \"an enthusiastic Christian\" — but was also open to learning from Hinduism, Islam and other religious traditions. Why, he wondered, couldn't religious ideas be open to the type of constructive competition that had produced so many advances in science and the free market?.\n\nThese were the values he sought to promote first through the Templeton Prize which he started in 1972 and then through the foundation, which he founded in 1987 and ran until his death in 2008.\n\nJohn M. Templeton, Jr. worked as a pediatric surgeon; he was chief of pediatric surgery at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia in 1995 when he stopped practicing medicine and joined the foundation. He took over the leadership when his father died. He was an evangelical Christian and supported various American conservative causes. He always maintained that he tried to run the foundation according to his father's wishes instead of his own wishes. He died in 2015.\n\nHeather Templeton Dill, the daughter of John Templeton, Jr., became president in 2015.\n\nAs of 2011, the foundation had an endowment of around $2.1 billion. Around $500 million of that was a bequest from John Templeton when he died in 2008.\n\nThe Templeton Prize was established by John Templeton and he administered the prize until the foundation was established in 1987, which took it over.\n\nThe early prizes were given solely to people who had made great achievements in the field of religion; Mother Teresa received the inaugural award in 1973. In the 1980's Templeton began considering the intersection of science and religion, and after he appointed to scientists to the judging panel, scientists who worked at the intersection began receiving it; Alister Hardy was the first, in 1987.\n\nTempleton believed in capitalism and in competition in all things. Around 40% of grants are given in fields associated with classical liberalism, like \"character development\", \"freedom and free enterprise\", and \"exceptional cognitive talent and genius\", and also across all religions, since Templeton believed progress in the field of spirituality could come from anywhere.\n\nThe field of grants was broadened in the 1980s to include scientific fields like neuroscience, psychology, and cosmology, that could be seen as being at the intersection of science and religion. In the 1990s the foundation funded people and organizations in the field of intelligent design; the foundation was frequently described as a major supporter of intelligent design during the Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District litigation in the mid-2000s. In the late 2000s, in the aftermath of its public shaming and loss of credibility among mainstream scientists, the foundation changed its grant topics to reduce the emphasis on religion and increase the emphasis on science and explicitly discouraged intelligent design proposals on its grant-application website.\n\nThe top ten grants as of 2011 were:\n\nLike all 501(c)(3) organizations, the Templeton Foundation is prohibited from engaging directly in political activity. However, a number of journalists have highlighted connections with conservative causes. A 1997 article in \"Slate Magazine\" said the Templeton Foundation had given a significant amount of financial support to groups, causes and individuals considered conservative, including gifts to Gertrude Himmelfarb, Milton Friedman, Walter E. Williams, Julian Lincoln Simon and Mary Lefkowitz, and referred to John Templeton, Jr., as a \"conservative sugar daddy\". The Foundation also has a history of supporting the Cato Institute, a libertarian think-tank, as well as projects at major research centers and universities that explore themes related to free market economics, such as Hernando de Soto's Instituto Libertad Y Democracia and the X Prize Foundation.\n\nIn a 2007 article in \"The Nation\", Barbara Ehrenreich drew attention to the Foundation's president John M. Templeton Jr. funding of the conservative group Freedom's Watch, and referred to the Foundation as a \"right wing venture\". Pamela Thompson of the Templeton Foundation, responding to Ehrenreich's allegations, asserted that \"the Foundation is, and always has been, run in accordance with the wishes of Sir John Templeton Sr, who laid very strict criteria for its mission and approach\", that it is \"a non-political entity with no religious bias\" and it \"is totally independent of any other organisation and therefore neither endorses, nor contributes to political candidates, campaigns, or movements of any kind\".\n\nIn 2013 it was highlighted that the Templeton Foundation has been funding the climate change denial movement.\n\nIn the 1990s organizations funded by the foundation gave grants for writing books to Guillermo Gonzalez and to William Dembski who are proponents of intelligent design and who both joined the Discovery Institute. The foundation also gave money directly to the Discovery Institute which in turn passed it through to Baylor University, which used the funds to support Dembski's salary at the short-lived Michael Polanyi Center at Baylor, which was a major step forward in the Discovery Institute's wedge strategy, in that it established a beachhead for intelligent design within a major US university. Bruce L. Gordon, another intelligent design proponent, was associate director of the center, and the foundation continued to fund his projects at Baylor after the center was dissolved.\n\nOther grants supported a conference around 2000 that put proponents of intelligent design on an equal footing with scientists.\n\nIn 2005 the foundation was frequently described as a major supporter of intelligent design during the widely discussed Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District litigation in the mid-2000s. The foundation, through Charles L. Harper Jr., its senior vice president for research, disputed that characterization, saying that while the foundation had initially been sympathetic to intelligent design, it had since grown disillusioned. He told \"BusinessWeek\" that the foundation had become one of the \"principal critics\" of the intelligent design movement and funded projects that challenged it. and told the \"New York Times\": \"From the point of view of rigor and intellectual seriousness, the intelligent design people don't come out very well in our world of scientific review\".\n\nA 2007 article in the \"Los Angeles Times\" described the foundation as having \"drawn criticism for its early support of intelligent design.\n\nIn March 2009, the Discovery Institute accused the foundation of blocking its involvement in \"\", a Vatican-backed, Templeton-funded conference in Rome. On the lack of involvement of any speakers supporting intelligent design, the conference director Rev. Marc Leclerc said, \"We think that it's not a scientific perspective, nor a theological or philosophical one ... This makes a dialogue difficult, maybe impossible\".\n\nHarold Koenig, Dale Mathews, David Larson, Jeffrey Levin, Herbert Benson and Michael McCullogh are scholars to whom Templeton have provided funds to \"report the positive relations\" between religion and medicine.\n\nThe Center on Religion and Chinese Society of the Purdue University in Indiana is funded by the Templeton Foundation. The current director of the center, the Chinese American Christian scholar Fenggang Yang, has been granted more that $9.5 million to support his projects, The center has published research on religion in China, especially based on Yang's own theory of the so-called \"religious market\". Yang's statistics and projections about Christianity in China have been disputed by authorities in China; Yang himself claimed that his speculations were based on a report of the Pew Research Center, another publication backed by the Templeton Foundation. Many scholars of Chinese religion have criticized Yang's sociological theories about religion in China.\n\nThe Pew Research Center, an American fact tank or research organization, has been \"jointly and generously funded\" by The Pew Charitable Trusts and the Templeton Foundation for its studies focusing on demographics of religions in the world, part of the series entitled \"Pew-Templeton Global Religious Futures\".\n\nThe Templeton Foundation also runs its own publisher, Templeton Press, and from 2004–2010, it published the periodical \"In Character: A Journal of Everyday Virtues\". From 2000 to 2003 it published \"Research news & opportunities in science and theology\", in which Bruce L. Gordon published a piece on the state of \"design theory\" in the aftermath of the Michael Polanyi Center affair.\n\nGiullaume Lecointre of the French National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS) has been scathingly critical of the Templeton Foundation, calling its type of private founding \"disastrous for the autonomy of scientific research\", as the French Center considers it aligned to fundamentalist Protestantism, creationism, and aimed at the dissolution of the epistemological distinction between the collective and public empirical enquiry and the individual and private metaphysical convictions.\n\nThe Foundation's views on the connections between religious and scientific inquiry and their ability to provide significant grants for scientific research has led to a polarising debate within the scientific community.\n\nScience journalist Chris Mooney, an atheist and author of \"The Republican War on Science\", received a 2010 Templeton-Cambridge Journalism Fellowship, enabling him to join other journalists for a three-week lecture program on science and religion at Cambridge University. In a 2010 article on his \"Discover\" magazine blog, Mooney wrote, \"I can honestly say that I have found the lectures and presentations that we've heard here to be serious and stimulating. The same goes for the discussions that have followed them\". In 2006, Horgan, a 2005 Templeton-Cambridge fellow then working as a freelance science journalist, wrote in \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" that he had enjoyed his fellowship, but felt guilty that by taking money from the Templeton Foundation, he had contributed to the mingling of science with religion. In another 2010 article, Mooney took issue with Horgan's point, calling the idea that the fellowship was a \"Trojan horse\" for religion \"pretty untenable\". Templeton critics Richard Dawkins, A. C. Grayling, and Daniel Dennett declined to answer a Templeton-Cambridge fellow's interview requests, saying that they did not want to lend credibility to the science and religion journalism program. Mooney rejected this approach, writing, \"You can't both denounce the fellowship for being intellectually tilted and also boycott it, thereby refusing to help lend it more of the balance you claim it needs\". Grayling and Dennett answered this criticism as follows:\n\nDonald Wiebe, scholar of religious studies at the University of Toronto, criticized the Templeton Foundation in a 2009 article entitled \"Religious Biases in Funding Religious Studies Research?\". According to him, the Templeton Foundation supports Christian bias in the field of religious studies, by deliberately imposing constraints to steer the results of the research.\n\nIn 2011, the science journal \"Nature\" took note of the ongoing controversy among scientists over working with Templeton. Jerry Coyne, University of Chicago evolutionary biologist sees a fundamental impossibility in attempting to reconcile faith with science.\n\nA fierce Templeton critic, Coyne told \"Nature\" writer Mitchell Waldrop that the Foundation's purpose is to eliminate the wall between religion and science, and to use science's prestige to validate religion. Other scientists, including Foundation grantees like University of Chicago psychologist John Cacioppo and Anthony Aguirre, a University of California—Santa Cruz astrophysicist, told \"Nature\" that they have never felt pressured by Templeton to spin their research toward religion-friendly conclusions.\n\nJohn Horgan, a science journalist and the author of several books, in 2006 wrote an article for \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" (reprinted in \"Edge\") of his \"misgivings about the foundation's agenda of reconciling religion and science\". He said that a conference he attended favored scientists who \"offered a perspective clearly skewed in favor of religion and Christianity\", and says that:\n\nJohn Horgan fears recipients of large grants from the Templeton Foundation sometimes write what the Foundation wants rather than what they believe.\n\nIn 2010, journalist Nathan Schneider published a lengthy investigative article about the Templeton Foundation, entitled \"God, Science and Philanthropy\", in \"The Nation\". In the article, he aired familiar complaints about the Foundation, but observed that many of its critics and grantees alike failed to appreciate \"the breadth of the foundation's activities, much less the quixotic vision of its founder, John Templeton\". Schneider observed: \"At worst, Templeton could be called heterodox and naïve; at best, his was a mind more open than most, reflective of the most inventive and combinatorial strains of American religious thought, eager to radically reinterpret ancient wisdom and bring it up to speed with some version from the present.\"\n\nThough the foundation, in Schneider's view, \"has associated itself with political and religious forces that cause it to be perceived as threatening the integrity of science and protecting the religious status quo,\" these alliances meant the foundation \"is also better positioned than most to foster a conservatism—and a culture generally—that holds the old habits of religions and business responsible to good evidence, while helping scientists better speak to people's deepest concerns\".\n\nProfessor Paul Davies, physicist and member of the Foundation's Board of Trustees, gave a defense of the Foundation's role in the scientific community in the Times Higher Education Supplement in March 2005. Responding to concerns about the funding of such research by religious organisations that might have a hidden agenda and in particular the Templeton Foundation, Davies said:\n\nPeter Woit, a mathematical physicist at Columbia University, occasionally writes about his misgivings with the foundation on his blog (which is hosted by Columbia University). Woit feels it is unfortunate that Templeton's money is used to influence scientific research towards a convergence between science and religion.\n\nIn June 2005, Woit wrote:\n\nIn October 2007, he gave this more qualified, but still largely critical, assessment of the Foundation following attendance at a Templeton sponsored seminar:\n\nNonetheless, Woit's impression is that the Foundation is careful to keep conservative politics out of its activities and he does state that \"their encouragement of religion seems to be of a very ecumenical nature\".\n\nOn 16 March 2012, in an article entitled \"Templeton Millions\", Woit expressed a more scathing critique of the Templeton Foundation:\n\nWoit wrote that the Templeton Foundation that year funded a project led by the astronomer Donald York of the University of Chicago because he is an evangelical Christian, quoting a statement of the Foundation itself.\n\nOn 7 May 2009, PZ Myers, biologist at the University of Minnesota Morris, wrote:\n\nIn his 2006 book \"The God Delusion\", Richard Dawkins (an evolutionary biologist) repeatedly criticizes the Templeton Foundation, referring to the Templeton Prize as \"a very large sum of money given ... usually to a scientist who is prepared to say something nice about religion\". Concerning the conference that he and John Horgan attended, and to John Horgan's resulting article, Dawkins comments, \"If I understand Horgan's point, it is that Templeton's money corrupts science\".\n\nIn 2016, Templeton funded a study specifically targeting Richard Dawkins, authored by a team led by the Templeton-funded sociologist Elaine Howard Ecklund, of the Rice University. Out of a total number of interviewed scientists, the authors selected those who didn't like Dawkins, and compiled an entire publication based on their opinion. In the article Dawkins is variously called \"Mr. Anti-God Europe\", \"extremely arrogant\" and \"overly aggressive\".\n\nSean M. Carroll, a cosmologist at the California Institute of Technology, wrote, in describing his self-recusal from a conference he discovered was funded by the Foundation, that \"the entire purpose of the Templeton Foundation is to blur the line between straightforward science and explicitly religious activity, making it seem like the two enterprises are part of one big undertaking. It's all about appearances\". But he also said, \"I appreciate that the Templeton Foundation is actually, in its own way, quite pro-science, and is not nearly as objectionable as the anti-scientific crackpots at the Discovery Institute\".\n\nSunny Bains of University College London Faculty of Engineering Science claims that there is:\n\nBains feels the Templeton Foundation \"blur the line between science and religion\". Bains' claims have been disputed by Josh Rosenau of the National Center for Science Education.\n"}
{"id": "12004229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12004229", "title": "Joseph Priestley and Dissent", "text": "Joseph Priestley and Dissent\n\nJoseph Priestley (13 March 1733 (old style) – 8 February 1804) was a British natural philosopher, political theorist, clergyman, theologian, and educator. He was one of the most influential Dissenters of the late 18th-century.\n\nA member of marginalized religious groups throughout his life and a proponent of what was called \"rational Dissent\", Priestley advocated religious toleration (challenging even William Blackstone), helped Theophilus Lindsey found the Unitarian church and promoted the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts in the 1780s. As the foremost British expounder of providentialism, he argued for extensive civil rights, believing that individuals could bring about progress and eventually the Millennium. Priestley's religious beliefs were integral to his metaphysics as well as his politics and he was the first philosopher to \"attempt to combine theism, materialism, and determinism,\" a project that has been called \"audacious and original.\"\n\nPriestley claimed throughout his life that politics did not interest him and that he did not participate in it. What appeared to others as political arguments were for Priestley always, at their root, religious arguments. Many of what we would call Priestley's political writings were aimed at supporting the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts, a political issue that had its foundation in religion.\n\nBetween 1660 and 1665, Parliament passed a series of laws that restricted the rights of dissenters: they could not hold political office, teach school, serve in the military or attend Oxford and Cambridge unless they ascribed to the thirty-nine Articles of the Church of England. In 1689, a Toleration Act was passed that restored some of these rights, if dissenters subscribed to 36 of the 39 articles (Catholics and Unitarians were excluded), but not all Dissenters were willing to accept this compromise and many refused to conform. Throughout the 18th century Dissenters were persecuted and the laws against them were erratically enforced. Dissenters continually petitioned Parliament to repeal the Test and Corporation Acts, claiming that the laws made them second-class citizens. The situation worsened in 1753 after the passage of Lord Hardwicke's Marriage Act which stipulated that all marriages must be performed by Anglican ministers; some refused to perform Dissenting weddings at all.\n\nPriestley's friends urged him to publish a work on the injustices borne by Dissenters, a topic to which he had already alluded in his \"Essay on a Course of Liberal Education for Civil and Active Life\" (1765). The result was Priestley's \"Essay on the First Principles of Government\", which Priestley's major modern biographer calls his \"most systematic political work,\" in 1768. The book went through three English editions and was translated into Dutch. Jeremy Bentham credited it with inspiring his \"greatest happiness principle.\" The \"Essay on Government\" is not strictly utilitarian, however; like all of Priestley's works, it is infused with the belief that society is progressing towards perfection. Although much of the text rearticulates John Locke's arguments from his \"Two Treatises on Government\" (1689), it also makes a useful distinction between political and civil rights and argues for protection of extensive civil rights. He distinguishes between a private and a public sphere of governmental control; education and religion, in particular, he maintains, are matters of private conscience and should not be administered by the state. As Kramnick states, \"Priestley's fundamental maxim of politics was the need to limit state interference on individual liberty.\" For early liberals like Priestley and Jefferson, the \"defining feature of liberal politics\" was its emphasis on the separation of church and state. In a statement that articulates key elements of early liberalism and anticipates utilitarian arguments, Priestley wrote:\n\nIt must necessarily be understood, therefore, that all people live in society for their mutual advantage; so that the good and happiness of the members, that is the majority of the members of any state, is the great standard by which every thing relating to that state must finally be determined.\n\nPriestley acknowledged that revolution was necessary at times but believed that Britain had already had its only necessary revolution in 1688, although his later writings would suggest otherwise. Priestley's later radicalism emerged from his belief that the British government was infringing upon individual freedom. Priestley would repeatedly return to these themes throughout his career, particularly when defending the rights of Dissenters.\n\nIn another attempt to champion the rights of Dissenters, Priestley defended their constitutional rights against the attacks of William Blackstone, an eminent legal theorist. Blackstone's \"Commentaries\", fast becoming the standard reference for legal interpretation, stated that dissent from the Church of England was a crime and argued that Dissenters could not be loyal subjects. Furious, Priestley lashed out with his \"Remarks on Dr. Blackstone's Commentaries\" (1769), correcting Blackstone's grammar, his history and his interpretation of the law. Blackstone, chastened, replied in a pamphlet and altered his \"Commentaries\" in subsequent editions; he rephrased the offending passages but still described Dissent as a crime.\n\nWhen Parliament rejected the Feather's Tavern petition in 1772, which would have released Dissenters from subscribing to the thirty-nine articles, many Dissenting ministers, as William Paley wrote, \"could not afford to keep a conscience.\" Priestley's friend from Leeds, Theophilus Lindsey, decided to try. He gave up his church, sold his books so that he would have money to live on and established the first Unitarian chapel in London. The radical publisher Joseph Johnson helped him find a building, which became known as Essex Street Chapel. Priestley's patron at the time, Lord Shelburne, promised that he would keep the church out of legal difficulties (barrister John Lee, later Attorney-General, also helped), and Priestley and many others hurried to raise money for Lindsey.\n\nOn 17 April 1774, the chapel had its first service. Lindsey had designed his own liturgy, of which many were critical. Priestley rushed to his defense with \"Letter to a Layman, on the Subject of the Rev. Mr. Lindsey's Proposal for a Reformed English Church\" (1774), claiming that only the form of worship had been altered and attacking those who only followed religion as a fashion. Priestley attended the church regularly while living in Calne with Shelburne and even occasionally preached there. He continued to support institutionalized Unitarianism after he moved to Birmingham in 1780, writing several \"Defenses\" of Unitarianism and encouraging the foundation of new Unitarian chapels throughout Britain and the United States. He also compiled and edited a liturgy and hymnbook for the new denomination.\n\nIn 1787, 1789 and 1790, Dissenters again tried to repeal the Test and Corporation Acts. Although initially it looked as if they might succeed, by 1790, with the fears of the French revolution looming in the minds of many members of Parliament, few were swayed by Charles James Fox's arguments for equal rights. Political cartoons, one of the most effective and popular media of the time, skewered the Dissenters and Priestley specifically. In the midst of these trying times, it was the betrayal of William Pitt and Edmund Burke that most angered Priestley and his friends; they had expected the two men's support and instead both argued vociferously against the repeal. Priestley wrote a series of \"Letters to William Pitt\" and \"Letters to Burke\" in an attempt to persuade them otherwise, but to no avail. These publications unfortunately also inflamed the populace against him.\n\nIn its propaganda against the \"radicals,\" Pitt's administration argued that Priestley and other Dissenters wanted to overthrow the government. Dissenters who had supported the French revolution came under increasing suspicion as skepticism over the revolution's benefits and ideals grew. When in 1790 Richard Price, the other leading Dissenting minister in Britain at the time, gave a rousing sermon supporting the French revolutionaries and comparing them to English revolutionaries of 1688, Burke responded with his famous \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\". Priestley rushed to the defense of his friend and of the revolutionaries, publishing one of the many responses, along with Thomas Paine and Mary Wollstonecraft, that became part of the \"Revolution Controversy.\" Paradoxically, it is Burke, the secular statesman, who argued against science and maintained that religion should be the basis of civil society while Priestley, the Dissenting minister, argued that religion could not provide the basis for society and should be restricted to one's private life.\n\nPriestley also served as a kind of political adviser to Lord Shelburne while he working for him as a tutor and librarian; he gathered information for him on parliamentary issues and served as a conduit of information for Dissenting and American interests. Priestley published several political works during these years, most of which were focused on the rights of dissenters, such as \"An Address to Protestant Dissenters . . . on the Approaching Election of Members of Parliament\" (1774). This pamphlet was published anonymously and Schofield calls it \"the most outspoken of anything he ever wrote.\" Priestley called on Dissenters to vote against those in Parliament who had, by refusing to repeal the Test and Corporation Acts, denied them their rights. He wrote a second part dedicated to defending the rebelling American colonists at the behest of Benjamin Franklin and John Fothergill. The pamphlets created a stir throughout Britain but the results of the election did not favor Shelburne's party.\n\nIn a series of five major metaphysical works, all written between 1774 and 1778, Priestley laid out his materialist view of the world and tried \"to defend Christianity by making its metaphysical framework more intelligible,\" even though such a position \"entailed denial of free will and the soul.\" The first major work to address these issues was \"The Examination of Dr. Reid's Inquiry ... Dr. Beattie's Essay ... and Dr. Oswald's Appeal\" (1774). He challenged Scottish common-sense philosophy, which claimed that \"common sense\" trumped reason in matters of religion. Relying on Locke and Hartley's associationism, he argued strenuously against Reid's theory of mind and maintained that ideas did not have to resemble their referents in the world; ideas for Priestley were not pictures in the mind but rather causal associations. From these arguments, Priestley concluded that \"ideas and objects must be of the same substance,\" a radically materialist view at the time. The book was popular and readers of all persuasions read it. Charles Lamb wrote to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, recommending \"that clear, strong, humorous, most entertaining piece of reasoning\" and Priestley heard rumors that even Hume had read the work and \"declared that the manner of the work was proper, as the argument was unanswerable.\"\nWhen arguing for materialism in his \"Examination\" Priestley strongly suggested that there was no mind-body duality. Such opinions shocked and angered many of his readers and reviewers who believed that for the soul to exist, there had to be a mind-body duality. In order to clarify his position he wrote \"Disquisitions relating to Matter and Spirit\" (1777), which claimed that both \"matter\" and \"force\" are active, and therefore that objects in the world and the mind must be made of the same substance. Priestley also argued that discussing the soul was impossible because it is made of a divine substance and humanity cannot gain access to the divine. He therefore denied the materialism of the soul while simultaneously claiming its existence. Although he buttressed his arguments with familiar scholarship and ancient authorities, including scripture, he was labeled an atheist. At least a dozen hostile refutations of the work were published by 1782.\n\nPriestley continued this series of arguments in \"The Doctrine of Philosophical Necessity Illustrated\" (1777); the text was designed as an \"appendix\" to the \"Disquisitions\" and \"suggests that materialism and determinism are mutually supporting.\" Priestley explicitly stated that humans had no free will: \"all things, past, present, and to come, are precisely what the Author of nature really intended them to be, and has made provision for.\" His notion of \"philosophical necessity,\" which he was the first to claim was consonant with Christianity, at times resembles absolute determinism; it is based on his understanding of the natural world and theology: like the rest of nature, man's mind is subject to the laws of causation, but because a benevolent God has created these laws, Priestley argued, the world as a whole will eventually be perfected. He argued that the associations made in a person's mind were a \"necessary\" product of their lived experience because Hartley's theory of associationism was analogous to natural laws such as gravity. Priestley contends that his necessarianism can be distinguished from fatalism and predestination because it relies on natural law. Isaac Kramnick points out the paradox of Priestley's positions: as a reformer, he argued that political change was essential to human happiness and urged his readers to participate, but he also claimed in works such as \"Philosophical Necessity\" that humans have no free will. \"Philosophical Necessity\" influenced the 19th-century utilitarians John Stuart Mill and Herbert Spencer, who were drawn to its determinism. Immanuel Kant, entranced by Priestley's determinism but repelled by his reliance on observed reality, created a transcendental version of determinism that he claimed allowed liberty to the mind and soul.\n\nIn the last of his important books on metaphysics, \"Letters to a Philosophical Unbeliever\" (1780), Priestley continues to defend his thesis that materialism and determinism can be reconciled with a belief in a God. The seed for this book had been sown during his trip to Paris with Shelburne. Priestley recalled in his \"Memoirs\":\n\nAs I chose on all occasions to appear as a Christian, I was told by some of them [\"philosophes\"], that I was the only person they had ever met with, of whose understanding they had any opinion, who professed to believe Christianity. But on interrogating them on the subject, I soon found that they had given no proper attention to it, and did not really know what Christianity was ... Having conversed so much with unbelievers at home and abroad, I thought I should be able to combat their prejudices with some advantage, and with this view I wrote ... the first part of my ‘Letters to a Philosophical Unbeliever’, in proof of the doctrines of a God and a providence, and ... a second part, in defence of the evidences [sic] of Christianity.\n\nThe text addresses those whose faith is shaped by books and fashion; Priestley draws an analogy between the skepticism of educated men and the credulity of the masses. He again argues for the existence of God using what Schofield calls \"the classic argument from design ... leading from the necessary existence of a creator-designer to his self-comprehension, eternal existence, infinite power, omnipresence, and boundless benevolence.\" In the three volumes, Priestley discusses, among many other works, Baron d'Holbach's \"Systeme de la Nature\", often called the \"bible of atheism.\" He claimed that d'Holbach's \"energy of nature,\" though it lacked intelligence or purpose, was really a description of God. Priestley believed that David Hume's style in the \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\" (1779) was just as dangerous as its ideas; he feared the open-endedness of the Humean dialogue.\n\nFor a complete bibliography of Priestley's writings, see list of works by Joseph Priestley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37154842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37154842", "title": "Journal of East Asian Studies", "text": "Journal of East Asian Studies\n\nThe Journal of East Asian Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal published triannually by Lynne Rienner Publishers. It was established in 2001 and is abstracted and indexed by Academic Search Premier, EBSCOhost, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, International Political Science Abstracts, and Social Sciences Citation Index. the editor-in-chief is Stephan Haggard.\n\n"}
{"id": "21288006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21288006", "title": "List of antiquarian societies", "text": "List of antiquarian societies\n\nA list of Antiquarian Societies.\n\nAn antiquarian society is a learned society or professional association for antiquarians, people who study history with particular attention to ancient artifacts, archaeological and historic sites, and/or historic archives and manuscripts.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37853612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37853612", "title": "List of journalists killed in the United States", "text": "List of journalists killed in the United States\n\nNumerous journalists have been murdered or killed in the United States while reporting, covering a military conflict, or because of their status as a journalist. At least 39 of these have been directly targeted as a result of their journalistic investigations. The most recent journalists killed in the United States were four reporters for \"The Capital\" in Annapolis, Maryland, who were killed on June 28, 2018 in a mass shooting at the newspaper's office.\n\nThe most dangerous sector of the US media after 1980 has been the race and ethnic press. According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, ten journalists serving the Vietnamese, Haitian and Chinese immigrant communities were killed in political assassinations between 1980 and 1993. Chauncey Bailey, who was the editor at a large circulation African American newspaper, was murdered in 2007 for his investigative reporting.\n\nSince the September 11 attacks, terrorism-related deaths involving journalists is another trend.\n\nIn some cases, journalists have been attacked but survived, such as Victor Riesel.\n\nThe only professional, working journalist to die while covering the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York City was photojournalist Bill Biggart, who was killed by falling debris as he was taking photographs. However, the International Federation of Journalists, which also counts media workers, said that six other media workers and a journalist who were not working at the time died in the attacks. Among those media workers listed as killed were six broadcast TV engineers, who worked inside a tower, and another professional photojournalist, who was a passenger on the first plane that was flown into the WTC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5108213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5108213", "title": "Literary editor", "text": "Literary editor\n\nA literary editor is an editor in a newspaper, magazine or similar publication who deals with aspects concerning literature and books, especially reviews. A literary editor may also help with editing books themselves, by providing services such as proof reading, copy-editing, and literary criticism.\n\nA consulting editor is a non-staff, independent literary editor. A consulting editor may be an independent, freelance editor, or a scholar providing expertise via consulting.\n\n"}
{"id": "3732408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732408", "title": "Maud Cunnington", "text": "Maud Cunnington\n\nMaud Edith Cunnington (\"née\" Pegge; 24 September 1869 – 28 February 1951) was a Welsh-born archaeologist, most famous for her pioneering work on the prehistoric sites of Salisbury Plain.\n\nMaud Pegge was born at Briton Ferry in Glamorgan to Catherine Milton Leach and her husband Charles Pegge, a doctor who ran Vernon House, the last privately owned asylum in Wales. She was one of seven children. Cunnington's older brother Edward followed his father as a doctor, and was also a notable rugby player and Welsh international. Maud was educated briefly at Cheltenham Ladies' College.\n\nFrom 1897, Maud carried out early rescue archaeology work during development in the area but also carried out full excavations at some of the most important sites in British archaeology. These included the first known Neolithic causewayed enclosure at Knap Hil, the Iron age village at All Cannings Cross, West Kennet Long Barrow, Figsbury Ring, Woodhenge, and The Sanctuary. This last monument she rediscovered as it had been lost since William Stukeley saw it in the eighteenth century. Woodhenge and The Sanctuary were bought by the Cunningtons and given to the nation. In 1912 she excavated and re-erected one of the two surviving stones in the Beckhampton Avenue and one of the stones in the West Kennet Avenue at Avebury. In 1933, she was elected president of the Wiltshire Archaeological and Natural History Society, the first woman to hold that position. In addition to technical reports, she published a short handbook, \"Avebury: A Guide\" (1931), and a children's guide to Devizes Museum.\n\nIn 1889, Maud Pegge married Ben Cunnington who was the honorary curator of Devizes Museum. Their only son, Edward, was killed in the First World War. \nCunnington was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1948 Birthday Honours for services to archaeology, the first woman archaeologist to receive the honour. However, she had been bedridden since 1947, and suffering from Alzheimer's disease, so she never knew of the accolade. When she died at home a few years later she left almost all her property (£14,000) to Devizes Museum (now Wiltshire Heritage Museum), allowing a salaried curator to be appointed for the first time. Her husband had died a few months earlier.\n\n"}
{"id": "16675214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16675214", "title": "Network of African Science Academies", "text": "Network of African Science Academies\n\nThe Network of African Science Academies was formed in December 2001 as an independent forum, for African science academies to discuss scientific issues of common concern.\n\nMember academies are:\nIn 2007, the Network of African Science Academies submitted a joint “statement on sustainability, energy efficiency, and climate change” to the leaders meeting at the G8 Summit in Heiligendamm, Germany.\n\n“A consensus, based on current evidence, now exists within the global scientific community that human activities are the main source of climate change and that the burning of fossil fuels is largely responsible for driving this change.”\n"}
{"id": "10990458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10990458", "title": "Ordensburg Krössinsee", "text": "Ordensburg Krössinsee\n\nOrdensburg Krössinsee (also \"Crössinsee\") was the first of three \"NS-Ordensburgen\", educational centers constructed in Germany in the 1930s for cadres of the Nazi Party. It was built near what was then the city of Falkenburg in Pomerania, today Złocieniec in Poland. \n\nToday, this former Nazi training centre is used by the 2nd Battalion, 12th Tank Brigade of the Polish Land Forces.\n\nThe groundbreaking for \"Ordensburg Krössinsee\" was on 22 April 1934. It was designed by the Cologne architect Clemens Klotz. The vast construction of rustic stone buildings with granite foundations was built at a cost of 20 million Reichsmarks, and the facility was officially dedicated on 24 April 1936. On 16 May 1941, the \"Ordensburg\" was renamed \"Die Falkenburg am Krössinsee\" (The Castle Falkenburg at Lake Krössin) by the Reichs Minister of Labor, Dr. Ley, Robert. On 29 June 1944, a small portion of the complex was destroyed by fire.\n\n\"Ordensburg Krössinsee\" was one of three \"NS-Ordensburgen\", the others being Ordensburg Sonthofen in Allgäu and Ordensburg Vogelsang in Eifel. A fourth was planned, but never built, at (the historic) Ordensburg Marienburg in West Prussia, known today as Malbork Castle in Poland.\n\nThe Commander of the Ordensburg was Otto Gohdes. Cadets, known as Ordens Junkers, were required to be at least , between 23 and 26 years old, racially pure and in good health without any physical limitations. At the outbreak of World War II, a very high percentage of Junkers were killed in action.\n\nTwo courses of studies took place here from 1937–38 and 1938-39. Classes began each morning at 7 and included studies in philosophy, politics and world history. Afternoons were devoted to military drills, battle tactics, sports and equestrian techniques. The school was recognized for its outstanding equestrian program. The nearby lake provided the means for students to develop rowing and sailing skills.\n\nIn 1937, the cadres began sharing the facility with members of the Hitlerjungen or Hitler Youth. These boys between 12–18 years old eventually became the sole occupants of all three Order Castles with the invasion of Poland in 1939 and the start of World War II.\n\nFinished Facilities:\nPlanned, but not Realized Facilities:\nDuring the construction of the \"Ordensburg Krössinsee\", a copper cylinder time capsule was buried in the foundation of one of the towers, presumably in April 1934 when construction of the Nazi facility commenced. The capsule was opened by archaeologists in 2016, more than 80 years after it had been buried. Although the archeologists had long known that the time capsule was buried in the building foundation, they were not able to access it until 2016, and had to wade through groundwater, cut through thick concrete and evade potential German mines in order to reach it.\n\nUnlike many time capsules, the contents of which are often damaged or destroyed by water, the contents of this capsule were perfectly preserved. The contents included photographs (including images of Adolf Hitler), newspapers from 1934, coins, books (including two copies of Mein Kampf), and promotional and historical materials about what was then the town of Falkenburg. The contents were transferred to the National Museum in Szczecin for cataloguing, translation, preservation and display.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7681292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7681292", "title": "Orlando Patterson", "text": "Orlando Patterson\n\nOrlando Patterson (born 5 June 1940) is a Jamaican-born American historical and cultural sociologist known for his work regarding issues of race in the United States, as well as the sociology of development. His book \"Freedom, Volume One\", or \"Freedom in the Making of Western Culture\" (1991), won the U.S. National Book Award for Nonfiction.\n\nPatterson was born in Westmoreland, Jamaica, and grew up in Clarendon Parish in the small town of May Pen. He attended primary school there, then moved to Kingston to attend Kingston College. He went on to earn a BSc in Economics from the University of the West Indies, Mona, in 1962, and his Ph.D. in Sociology at the London School of Economics in 1965. His dissertation adviser was David Glass. While in London he was associated with the Caribbean Artists Movement, whose second meeting, in January 1967, was held at the Patterson's North London flat.\n\nEarlier in his career, Patterson was concerned with the economic and political development of his home country, Jamaica. He served as special advisor to Michael Manley, Prime Minister of Jamaica, from 1972 to 1979.\n\nPatterson is known for his work on the relationship between slavery and social death, which he has worked on extensively and written several books about.\n\nPatterson has appeared on PBS and has been a guest columnist in \"The New York Times\". A recent article in the latter, \"The Real Problem With America’s Inner Cities,\" used the lens of developmental sociology to analyze recent protests and looting in West Baltimore.\n\nPatterson currently holds the John Cowles chair in Sociology at Harvard University.\n\nIn October 2015 he received the Gold Musgrave Medal in recognition of his contribution to literature.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44494465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44494465", "title": "Pancake sentence", "text": "Pancake sentence\n\nPancake sentences are a phenomenon in Scandinavian linguistics where sentence agreement does not follow conventional linguistic patterns. The phrase appears to have been coined by Hans-Olav Enger in a 2004 academic paper, \"Scandinavian pancake sentences as semantic agreement\" but it was well-known also by classic grammar and was dubbed \"constructio ad sensum\" or \"syllepsis\"; see zeugma and syllepsis. Enger states that pancake sentences are \"where the predicative adjective apparently disagrees with its subject\". This phenomenon may be related or compared to English language linguistics, where American English speakers might say \"the team has arrived\", syntactically agreeing the singular \"team\", versus British English speakers saying \"the team have arrived\", agreeing semantically to the collective noun \"team\".\n\nAn example from Swedish is the sentence \"Pannkakor är nyttigt\":\n\nWhile \"Pannkakor\" 'pancakes' is plural and of common gender, \"nyttigt\" 'healthy' is inflected to singular and neuter.\n\nA similar phenomenon also occurs in Hebrew, where the copula (and adjectives) appear to disagree with the subject, as well as is Portuguese with some nouns used without the article (\"Água é bom. É proibido entrada. Está proibido brincadeiras. \") when feminine nouns of either number agree with a masculine adjective in its singular form.\n\n"}
{"id": "44647390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44647390", "title": "Pegida", "text": "Pegida\n\nPatriotic Europeans Against the Islamisation of the Occident (), abbreviated Pegida, is a German nationalist, anti-Islam, far-right political movement. Founded in Dresden in October 2014, Pegida believes that Germany is being increasingly Islamicized and defines itself in opposition to Islamic extremism.\n\nPegida wants to curb immigration, and accuses authorities of not enforcing existing immigration laws. Pegida has held many demonstrations; often there have been many public demonstrations against them as well. In 2015, the founder of Pegida resigned after being reported as having posed as Adolf Hitler and having made racist statements on Facebook. He was later reinstated.\n\nOffshoots of Pegida have been formed in various countries.\n\nPegida was founded in October 2014 by Lutz Bachmann, who runs a public relations agency in Dresden. Bachmann's impetus for starting Pegida was witnessing a rally by alleged supporters of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) against the siege of Kobani by the Islamic State (ISIL) on 10 October 2014 in Dresden, which he posted on YouTube on the same day. The next day he founded a Facebook group called \"\" (\"Patriotic Europeans against Islamisation of the Occident\").\n\nA few days earlier, on 7 October, a group of Muslims, assumed to be Salafists, had violently attacked alleged PKK supporters who were gathering after a demonstration against ISIL. The same day, Yazidis and Muslim Chechens had violently clashed in Celle. On 26 October, out of 5,000 protesters, \"at least 400 right-wing extremists went on a rampage in downtown Cologne during a demonstration\" by \"Hooligans Against Salafists\". Bachmann mentioned these events in a release for his first demonstration.\n\nThe first demonstration, or \"evening stroll\" (according to Pegida), took place on 20 October 2014, and only attracted a handful of people. During the following days, the movement began gaining wider public attention, and, subsequently, the weekly Monday demonstrations drew larger numbers of people. Among the 7,500 participants on 1 December 2014, the police identified 80 to 120 hooligans. The demonstration grew to 10,000 people on 8 December 2014.\n\nDuring the weekly demonstrations on Monday evenings, Pegida supporters carried banners with slogans such as \"For the preservation of our culture,\" \"Against religious fanaticism, against any kind of radicalism, together without violence,\" and \"Against religious wars on German soil.\"\n\nOn 19 December 2014, PEGIDA e.V. was legally registered in Dresden under the registration ID \"VR 7750\", with Bachmann as chairman, Rene Jahn as vice-chairman, and Kathrin Oertel as treasurer. Pegida also formally applied for the status of a nonprofit organization.\n\nWhile the demonstration on 29 December 2014 was cancelled by the organizers, the movement continued to draw large numbers of participants in early January 2015. After the \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting on 7 January 2015 in Paris, politicians (including ministers Thomas de Maiziere and Heiko Maas) warned Pegida against misusing the attack on \"Charlie Hebdo\" for its own political ends. On Saturday 10 January 2015 some 35,000 anti-Pegida protesters gathered to mourn the victims of Paris, observing a minute's silence in front of the Frauenkirche.\n\nOn 12 January 2015, Pegida organizers organized a rally of some 25,000 participants. Pegida's main organizer, Bachmann, declared the six central political objectives of Pegida, which include calls for selective immigration and the expulsion of religious extremists, the right and duty to integrate, and tighter internal security.\n\nOn 15 January 2015, a young Eritrean immigrant, Khaled Idris Bahray, was found stabbed to death in his Dresden high-rise apartment. International media correspondents portrayed an \"atmosphere of hatred and resentment\" and published social media comments of Pegida sympathizers, who had expressed disdain for the dead Eritrean. Pegida's organizers rejected any possible connection. One week later, the police investigation led to the arrest and eventual conviction of one of the victim's Eritrean housemates.\nDresden police did not permit the demonstration planned for 19 January 2015, due to a definite threat against one of Pegida's leadership members in form of an Arabic-language tweet labelling Pegida an \"enemy of Islam\". Pegida cancelled its 13th demonstration and stated in a post on its Facebook page that there was an explicit threat against a leadership member, and \"his execution had been ordered by ISIS terrorists\". Nonetheless, the Pegida demonstrations resumed in full force in the summer and autumn of 2015, with 10,000 demonstrators attending a rally in September.\n\nOn 21 January 2015, Bachmann resigned from his position with Pegida after coming under fire for a number of Facebook posts. Excerpts from a closed Facebook conversation incriminated Bachmann as having designated immigrants as \"animals\", \"scumbags\" and \"trash\", classified as hate speech in Germany. He was also quoted commenting that extra security was needed at the welfare office \"to protect employees from the animals\". A self-portrait of Bachmann allegedly posing as a reincarnation of Adolf Hitler, titled \"He's back!\" (which the \"Sächsische Zeitung\" later discovered to be a forgery, reporting that a moustache was added after the photo was taken), went viral in social media and was printed on title pages worldwide. On another occasion, Bachmann had posted a photo of a man wearing the uniform of the US white supremacist organisation Ku Klux Klan accompanied by the slogan: \"Three Ks a day keeps the minorities away\". The Dresden state prosecutors opened an investigation for suspected \"Volksverhetzung\" (incitement), and Deputy Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel said the real face of Pegida had been exposed: \"Anyone who puts on a Hitler disguise is either an idiot or a Nazi. People should think carefully about running after a Pied Piper like this\".\n\n\"Der Spiegel\" reported that Pegida's media spokeswoman, Kathrin Oertel, turned to the AfD for advice, and that the \"Sächsische Zeitung\" and \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" both confirmed there was a phone conversation between the AfD's Frauke Petry and Oertel. Petry said to Oertel that Bachmann should no longer be supported (\"Ich habe ihr gesagt, dass Bachmann nicht mehr zu halten ist\"). On that same day Oertel announced Bachmann's resignation.\n\nOn 28 January, Oertel resigned as well, citing \"the massive hostility, threats and career disadvantages\" as the reason. At the same time four other leading figures of Pegida stepped back. On 2 February 2015 Oertel and six other former Pegida members founded 'Direkte Demokratie für Europa' (Direct Democracy for Europe) to distance themselves from the far-right tendencies of Pegida\".\n\nIn February 2015, Pegida confirmed on its Facebook page that Lutz Bachmann had been re-elected as chairman by the six other members of the organisation’s leadership committee, after the Sächsische Zeitung published a report that the Hitler moustache on the now infamous photo had been added after the photo was taken.\n\nIn June 2015, following the resignation of CDU incumbent Helma Orosz on health grounds, Tatjana Festerling, who was dismissed from Pegida's leadership circle in June 2016, ran for the mayoral office of Dresden, polling 9.6% in the first round with support from the far-right NPD. On 7 July 2015, group leader Bachmann announced that Pegida would participate in all future federal elections in Germany.\n\nThe European migrant crisis revived the movement, which drew as many as 20,000 supporters to a 19 October 2015 rally in Dresden. At the same time, observers perceived a further radicalisation of the crowd.\n\nOn 28 September, two journalists were injured when Pegida participants kicked a local newspaper reporter and punched another TV reporter in the face. On 12 October, Pegida demonstrators carried a mock gallows showing nooses reserved for Chancellor Angela Merkel and her deputy Sigmar Gabriel. Bachmann derided the demonstrators who made this, calling it a \"laughable piece of work with spelling errors\" (\"lächerliche Bastelarbeit mit Schreibfehlern\"), a reference to the fact that the name Sigmar had been written with an \"ie\" (Siegmar).\n\nAt Pegida's anniversary event on 19 October 2015, keynote speaker Akif Pirinçci named the Muslim refugees as invaders, with Germany becoming a \"Muslim garbage dump\". Pirinçci said that politicians were acting like \"Gauleiter against their own people\", as they wanted critics of Germany's refugee policy to leave the country. Addressing the crowd shouting \"Resistance!\", he claimed that the majority of Germans were held in contempt by the political class and that politicians wished that there were \"other alternatives [to fight Pegida supporters] – but the concentration camps are unfortunately out of order at the moment\". The crowd applauded and laughed, and let him continue his speech for another 20 minutes before calling upon him to finish.\n\nWhen 1,500 to 2,000 people celebrated Pegida in Leipzig's first anniversary, dozens of hooligans went on a rampage, vandalizing foreign-owned shops. Over 100 people were arrested. Mayor Burghard Jung called it \"open street terror\".\n\nThe founder of Pegida, Lutz Bachmann, has set up a new political party, the \"Freiheitlich Direktdemokratische Volkspartei\" (\"Liberal Direct Democratic People's Party\", or \"FDDV\"). The FDDV was established on 13 June 2016. Tommy Robinson founded a subsidiary branch of Pegida in the United Kingdom.\n\nAt the beginning of December 2014, Pegida published an undated and anonymous one-page manifesto of 19 bulleted position statements.\n\nPegida's specific demands were initially unclear, largely because Pegida has refused a dialogue, considering the press to be a politically correct conspiracy. Demonstrators have been observed chanting \"Lügenpresse\" (lying press) a term that has a long history in German politics.\nAlongside the German national flag, supporters of the movement have often been seen with a variant of the \"Wirmer flag\", a flag proposed by resistance member Josef Wirmer in 1944 for use after World War II.\n\nAccording to a \"Deutsche Welle\" report from December 2014, Pegida considers Islamism a misogynist and violent ideology. In January 2015 \"The Guardian\" described Pegida as a far-right movement, the \"New York Times\" labelled Pegida as anti-immigrant, and Angela Merkel has repeatedly questioned the motives underlying its anti-immigrant message.\n\nThe State Authority for the Protection of the Constitution (Landesamt für Verfassungsschutz) Thüringen considers \"Sügida\" to be steered by right-wing nationalists.\n\nIn February 2015 the 19 positions were enhanced and broken down to the ten \"Theses of Dresden\".\n\n10 September 2015, Pegida demanded 10 changes in the refugee politics, where they called for an immediate stop for asylum seekers and for a German 'asylum-emergency law'.\n\nAccording to Frank Richter, director of Saxony's Federal Agency for Civic Education, Pegida is \"a mixed group—known figures from the National Democratic Party of Germany, soccer hooligans, but also a sizable number of ordinary citizens\". Werner Schiffauer, director of the Migration Council has pointed out that the movement is strongest where people have hardly any experience with foreigners, and among \"easterners who never really arrived in the Federal Republic and who now feel they have no voice\".\n\nIn December, Gordian Meyer-Plath, president of the Landesamt für Verfassungsschutz, said that initial suspicion that Pegida might tie in with the riots staged by Hogesa earlier in Cologne were not substantiated, so the movement was not put under official surveillance. He said there were no indications that the organizers were embracing right-wingers. This assessment was contested by the weekly \"Die Zeit\" who researched the ideological proximity of Pegida organizer Siegfried Däbritz to the German Defence League or the European Identitarian movement. In a Tagesspiegel interview on 19 January Meyer-Plath reaffirmed that the participant spectrum was very diverse and that there was no evidence of radicalisation.\nDresden University of Technology (TU) interviewed 400 Pegida demonstrators on 22 December 2014 and 12 January 2015. According to the poll, the main reasons of their participation were dissatisfaction with the political situation (54 percent), \"Islam, Islamism and Islamisation” (23 percent), criticism of the media and the public (20 percent), and reservations regarding asylum seekers and migrants (15 percent). In all, 42 percent had reservations regarding Muslims or Islam, 20 percent were concerned about a 'high rate of crimes' committed by asylum seekers, or feared socio-economic disadvantages. The author, Vorländer, did not see Pegida as a movement of right-wing extremists, pensioners or the unemployed, but stated that the rallies served as a way to express feelings and resentments against a political and opinion-making elite which have not been publicly articulated before.\n\nA group of social scientists led by Dieter Rucht from the Social Science Research Centre Berlin (Wissenschaftszentrum Berlin für Sozialforschung, WZB) collected data both by flyer and online survey. Despite a participation rate of only 18 percent in the online survey, it largely had similar results to the survey in Dresden. According to data from the WZB, Pegida was a male-dominated group, participants were mostly employees with a relatively high level of education, they had no confidence in institutions and they sympathized with AfD. In some cases the participants demonstrated far-right and right-wing extremist attitudes. The conclusion emphasized that Pegida supporters cannot be viewed as 'ordinary citizens', since they articulate group-focused enmity and racism.\n\nIn December 2014, representatives of the NPD encouraged people to participate in Pegida rallies, as did the German Defence League and the internet blog \"Politically Incorrect\" in an uploaded 'propaganda clip'. According to the police, a few hundred \"violent hooligans\" have been participating in the Dresden rallies since December 2014. The journalist Felix Menzel supports Pegida with his new right youth magazine \"Blaue Narzisse\".\n\nNumerous protests against Pegida and affiliated movements in cities across Germany have drawn up to 35,000 demonstrators in Dresden and up to 100,000 nationwide in January 2015, considerably more than Pegida's own concurrent demonstrations.\n\nIn protest against a Pegida march, the floodlights of the Catholic Cologne Cathedral were switched off on the evening of 5 January 2015. Dresden's Volkswagen plant used the same method of protest.\n\nGerman tabloid newspaper \"Bild\" launched a petition against Pegida, including former Chancellors Helmut Schmidt and Gerhard Schröder, as well as actress Karoline Herfurth and former footballer Oliver Bierhoff.\n\nAccording to a survey by the Emnid institute conducted in December 2014, 53% of East Germans and 48% of West Germans showed understanding for Pegida demonstrations. Differentiated by political parties, supporters consisted of 86% of all surveyed AfD members, 54% of all CDU members, 46% of all SPD members and 19% of all questioned supporters of Die Linke and Die Grünen respectively. 43% of all Germans participating in the survey thought that Pegida protesters are mainly concerned about the \"spread of Islam“. 33% believed that mainly right wing extremists attend their demonstrations.\n\nOn behalf of German online newspaper Zeit Online, YouGov conducted a survey from 12 to 15 December 2014. The survey showed that 30% of all 1107 surveyed felt sympathetic with regards to the demonstrations. Another 19% said they were understanding rather than the opposite. 26% approved at least partially of the demonstrations, while 10% showed little sympathy and a further 13% no understanding at all.\n\nA survey by TNS Infratest conducted in December 2014 on behalf of German magazine \"Der Spiegel\" showed that 65% of all surveyed German citizens felt that the government did not respond appropriately to their concerns about asylum policy and immigration. 28% disagreed, while 34% observed an increasing Islamisation in Germany.\n\nA representative survey by Emnid conducted from 17 to 18 December 2014 showed that 85% of all 1006 surveyed were not willing to participate in demonstrations for Pegida policy. Only 9%, more than half of all surveyed AfD followers, said they were in fact willing to demonstrate.\n\nOn 18 December 2014, the Forsa Institute conducted a survey which showed that 67% of all surveyed Germans considered the danger of Islamisation exaggerated. 29%, consisting of 71% of all surveyed AfD supporters, felt too strong an Islamic influence in Germany and deemed respective demonstrations justified. 13% said they would participate in protests near their residence. 10%, consisting of 57% of all surveyed AfD followers, would even vote for an anti-Islamic party.\n\nA special report by the Bertelsmann Foundation, complemented by a TNS Emnid survey from November 2014, showed that a majority of German citizens considered Islam dangerous. Consequently, there seemed to be a \"strong sympathy“ for „Pegida paroles“. In absolute numbers, 57% of all surveyed thought of Islam as a danger. 40% felt like \"foreigners in their own country“, while 24% stated that they would like to prevent further Muslim immigration. These opinions were not exclusive to any political camps or social classes.\n\nChancellor Angela Merkel has criticized Pegida, saying that the leaders of Pegida \"have prejudice, coldness, even hatred in their hearts”. The Federal Minister of the Interior Thomas de Maizière said that among the participants of the mass rallies were many ordinary people who expressed their concerns about the challenges of today's society.<ref name=\"vek/dpa\"></ref> Bernd Lucke, the leader of the political party Alliance for Progress and Renewal, has said he considers most of the positions of Pegida to be legitimate. According to Lucke, the people taking part in these demonstrations did not feel that their concerns were being understood by politicians. Similarly, the Dresden city council's AfD faction welcomed Pegida's weekly demonstrations.\n\nJosef Schuster, chairman of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, voiced his opposition to the group, saying that the possibility of an Islamic conquest of Germany would be as \"absurd\" as a resurrection of the Nazi regime. Schuster described Pegida as being \"highly dangerous\": “It starts with verbal assault and leads to actual attacks like the one on a planned refugee hostel in Bavaria\". He referred to an arson attack on a home for asylum-seekers that was ready for occupation. After the attack, swastika graffiti was found at the scene. Schuster said that Pegida is a combination of \"neo-Nazis, far-right parties and citizens who think they are finally allowed to show their racism and xenophobia openly\". He condemned the movement, stating that the fear of Islamist terror was being exploited to disparage an entire religion.\n\nAiman Mazyek from the Central Council of Muslims in Germany stated that again and again right-wing extremists gave the public the false impression of a racist Germany. The slogans of the protesters showed that xenophobia and anti-Semitic racism had become socially acceptable.\n\nPegida has been criticized by Lutheran clergy, including the Bishop of Hamburg Kirsten Fehrs.\n\nBachmann's credibility as a leader has been criticized because he has numerous criminal convictions, including \"16 burglaries, drink-driving or without a licence and even dealing in cocaine\". In 1998 he fled to South Africa to avoid German justice, but was finally extradited and served his two-year jail sentence.\n\nIn November 2014, Saxony's Interior Minister, Markus Ulbig (CDU), claimed that foreign criminals stayed in Germany too long. He announced the creation of a special police unit to deal with criminal immigrants in Dresden and the rest of Saxony. Investigators and specialists in criminal and immigrant law would collaborate to process foreign criminals in the criminal justice system, and prevent those not eligible for asylum from obtaining the right to stay in Germany. Ulbig admitted that there had been a number of criminal acts committed by immigrants near the homes for asylum-seekers, but these were a minority and should not be allowed to undermine solidarity with the great majority of law-abiding refugees. He said police worked on criminal immigrant cases too slowly.\nOn the night of 5 January 2015, the lights illuminating the Brandenburg Gate were completely turned off in protest against the Berlin offshoot named \"Bärgida\" and also the lights of the Catholic cathedral Kölner Dom in Cologne in repudiation against \"Kögida\". The exterior lighting of the Semperoper in Dresden was also kept dark during the weekly Pegida marches. Both rallies in Berlin and Cologne were successfully blocked and disbanded by counterdemonstrations.\n\nOn 26 January 2015 the US Overseas Security Advisory Council published an online security message entitled \"Demonstration Notice Riots/Civil Unrest\", stating U.S. citizens in Berlin, Frankfurt and Munich may \"encounter Pegida and counter-Pegida demonstrations\" on 26 January and 16 February 2015 in Düsseldorf, and \"should avoid areas of demonstrations\".\n\nPolitical scientist Werner J. Patzelt from Dresden believes that politicians are 'clueless' when it comes to dealing with Pegida. He says that this points to a serious problem in society, which neither the left wing nor parties of the political middle ground concern themselves with. This allows new social initiatives critical of Islam and immigrants to form. According to him, the demonstrators are normal people approachable by the CDU, if only the party stopped following ostrich policy concerning immigration.\n\nFar-right politics expert Hans-Gerd Jaschke thinks that the demands in Pegida’s position paper stem from the middle class centre-right and could as well be the content of CDU/CSU’s position papers. Social psychologist Andreas Zick from the Institute for Interdisciplinary Research on Conflict and Violence (IKG) assesses the party as a “middle-class right-wing populist movement”.\n\nAccording to right-wing extremism researcher Johannes Kies, Pegida states what many people think. Kies says that these opinions are widespread in society and that great anti-democratic potential is erupting there. According to political scientist Alexander Häusler we are facing “a right-wing oriented group of enraged citizens”, that “mingles with members of the right-wing scene and even hooligans”. Political scientist Hajo Funke sees a connection between Pegida and the great increase in attacks on asylum seekers in 2014. He says that because politics did not react to the population’s fear of ever-increasing numbers of asylum seekers, these groups could use these fears and fan them further.\n\nIn his article for the German newspaper Zeit Online, political scientist and historian Michael Lühmann called it “cynical to want to place Pegida in the tradition of 1989”. The demonstrators in Dresden do not align themselves with the philosophy of the extreme right-wing, he says, but they fit the bill for “extremism of the centre ground”, which is widespread in Saxony and for whose “group-based misanthropy […] at times the CDU, but prevalently the NPD and as of now the AfD stand” in parliament.\n\nIn a similar fashion, historian Götz Aly traces the fact that Pegida were able to form in Dresden back to the city’s history. In one of his columns in the Berliner Zeitung he referred to the Jewish emancipation of 19th century Saxony, where the comparatively few resident Jews were faced with unequally difficult legal obstacles. Aly concluded that in Dresden “freedom, self-aggrandising local presumption and fear of foreigners” have long belonged together.\n\nPolitical philosopher Jürgen Manemann considers Pegida an anti-political movement. According to Manemann, political action serves the common good and thus requires politicians to voice especially the interests of minorities. While politics was based on pluralism, Pegida was in fact anti-pluralistic and thus anti-political. In Manemann’s eyes, the movement has neither an appreciation of otherness nor empathy, which he sees as the basic virtue of political action.\n\nExplaining especially those protests against the actually non-existent threat of Islamisation from people with middle-class backgrounds, political scientist Gesine Schwan referred to results from studies on prejudice. These studies indicate that aggressive prejudices do not originate from those groups met with resentment, but are rather a result of the situation of those who have them. In addition, fear of social decline often seems to be expressed through aggression. This is then directed especially against those minorities which may seem dangerous, but are in reality unable to defend themselves, often due to a perceived unpopularity within the respective society. In the first half of the 20th century, it was the Jewish minority who were imputed with plans for world domination. Today, it is the Muslim minority who is accused of plotting an Islamisation of Europe.\n\nIn an interview about Pegida, researcher on prejudice Wolfgang Benz referred to his previous warnings about right-wing extremists using the fear of foreign infiltration for their ends. It was not the formation but the attendance figures that really surprised him.\n\nPolitical scientist and researcher on extremism Armin Pfahl-Traughber considers Pegida demonstrations \"a new phenomenon of xenophobia\". In an interview, he accused Pegida leaders of fuelling \"hostility and hatred against people of different ethnicity or religion\".\n\nOn 5 January 2015, the Council on Migration called for a new general orientation in German society. Since, in their eyes, migration was controllable only to a limited extent, they suggested an orientation committee. Consisting of politicians and representatives of immigrants and minorities, this would work together in order to analyse and redefine \"German identity and solidarity in a pluralist republican society\". Their results were to be included in German schools' curricula in order to emphasize the historical importance of migration in Germany. In the eyes of the Council, German policy has been influenced for far too long by the CDU's guiding principle of \"Germany not being a land of immigration\". Thus, a concept of integration should include foreigners and refugees in German society. According to the Council, German integration policy should not only focus on immigrants, but also provide courses on integration for groups such as Pegida. Praising German Chancellor Angela Merkel's distancing herself from Pegida, the Council stressed that an immigration society is a very complex construct.\n\nPolitical theorist Wolfgang Jäger considers Pegida a part of increasingly right-wing populist tendencies in Europe, in their Islamophobia possibly being the heir to widespread antisemitism. He claims that the demonstrations themselves expose the movement's moderate position paper as a fig leaf for \"blatantly unconstitutional xenophobia\". Thus, democrats should not sympathize with the movement, as their referring in particular to Judeo-Christian values was contrary to their actual demands. Jäger also voiced concerns about the \"ghosts of the old nationalism re-entering Germany through the back door\". According to political theorists, a democracy needs to be measured by how it protects its minorities. A knowledge of foreign cultures should be taught in schools. Only in this way would it be possible to understand globalisation as a chance for cultural enrichment in the face of global terrorism.\n\nThe controversy around Pegida sparked reactions from international media as well. In France, \"Le Monde\" wrote that Islamophobia divided German society, while \"Libération\" and \"L'Opinion\" discussed possible parallels to the French far-right Front National. Several French and francophone cartoonists published a flyer aimed against a funeral march by Pegida in the wake of the \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting in January 2015. The signatories - among them a surviving member of \"Charlie Hebdo\"'s editorial staff – disapproved of Pegida using the mourning to gather attention for their own cause. They stated that Pegida symbolized everything \"Charlie Hebdo\" had fought against and asked the population of Dresden for more tolerance and to be open towards different cultures.\n\n\"The Times\" claimed that, for the first time since 1945, a German populist movement was publicly complaining about an ethnic minority. This would frighten the establishment. BBC News said that Germany is not used to such large numbers of demonstrators supporting such positions. \"The Guardian\" described Pegida as an emerging campaign against immigrants that would eventually endanger tourism.\n\n\"The New York Times\" claimed that, because of its communist history, East Germany was more xenophobic than the rest of the country. The paper claimed that, in light of the low numbers of Muslims living in Saxony, the fear of Islamisation was bizarre.\n\nRussia Today reported comprehensively on Pegida. Its subsidiary Ruptly broadcast several rallies live on the internet.\n\nTurkey's \"Hürriyet\" and \"Sabah\" reported on Pegida and counterrallies. Sabah interpreted the demonstrations as a “rise of the radical right in Europe”. In an interview with the \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\", Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoğlu compared Pegida followers with members of the terror organisation IS. He said that both had an archaic mindset and that Turkey was \"very concerned about Pegida\". He called the movement a “threat to Turks, Muslims and Germany itself”.\n\nThe Arabic news network Al Jazeera primarily reported on counter-demonstrations.\n\nPegida has spawned a number of smaller offshoots across Germany, including \"Legida\" in Leipzig, \"Sügida\" in Südthüringen, \"Kagida\" in Kassel, \"Wügida\" in Würzburg, \"Bogida\" in Bonn, \"Dügida\" in Düsseldorf, and \"Fragida\" in Frankfurt. After some internal disputes, representatives of \"Pegida NRW\", an affiliate aiming to operate in the federal state of North Rhine Westphalia, distanced itself from the \"Bogida\", \"Dügida\" and \"Kögida\" clones in North Rhine Westphalia. The latter were said to have been taken over by members of the openly xenophobic right-wing splinter party Pro NRW. In January 2015, \"Pegida NRW\" replaced their media representative Melanie Dittmer with Sebastian Nobile, a member of the \"German Defence League\", an anti-Islamist organisation modelled on the English Defence League.\n\nIn December 2014, rival right-wing forces founded an anti-American Facebook group under the name PEGADA (, or \"Patriotic Europeans Against the Americanisation of the West\"), claiming the true problem was not the phenomenon of Islamism but the suspected American forces behind it. On 25 January they held a first rally in Erfurt under the title \"EnDgAmE\" (, or \"Committed democrats against the Americanisation of Europe\"). Promoted by a number of activists of the Third Position \"Mahnwachen\"-Movement and by Hooligans against Salafists (\"Hogesa\"). they attracted some 1,000 protesters, but were opposed by 800 mostly left-wing counter-demonstrators including Erfurt's mayor Andreas Bausewein and trade union members, Jusos and the local Antifa.\n\nAnother offshoot, Nügida, drew scrutiny after several of its members became involved in a neo-Nazi plot to bomb a refugee centre.\n\nIn January 2015, Pegida sympathizers held their first rally in Oslo, Norway with around 200 protesters, but this support quickly collapsed. In neighbouring Denmark, around 200 protesters marched in the capital, Copenhagen. In the same month, a Spanish branch applied for a protest outside the main mosque in Madrid, which was rejected by government officials. Marches were planned in Switzerland and Antwerp, Belgium but not permitted due to anti-terrorism raids in Verviers one week earlier. The Antwerp demonstration was finally held on 2 March 2015 without the mayor's permission. About 350 persons were present and about 227 of them received a fine for participating in an unauthorized demonstration.\n\nOn 28 February 2015, Pegida UK held its first protest in Newcastle upon Tyne, with around 400 attending. Around 1,000 people turned up to oppose, led by former MP George Galloway. There was a small Pegida demonstration in London on 4 April 2015, with a counter-demonstration by anti-fascist groups.\n\nThe first Pegida demonstration in Sweden gathered eight people in Malmö and 5,000 opponents. When Pegida called a demonstration in Linköping they gathered four persons. In Uppsala Pegida managed to gather about ten persons. Following several failed demonstrations and internal strife the Swedish branch dissolved.\n\nA demonstration on 28 March 2015 in Montreal, Canada by sympathizers of Pegida was cancelled when hundreds of people gathered to counter-protest. A demonstration on 19 September 2015 in Toronto was attended by about a dozen members of Pegida Canada. The demonstration ended in a melee with counter-protesters who outnumbered Pegida members about twenty to one.\n\nPolitical scientist Farid Hafez argues that Pegida was not able to settle down in Austria, since the far right FPÖ already represented the ideology of Pegida in parliament and absorbed most of the far right human resources. \n\nOn 23 January 2016, representatives of fourteen like-minded allies, including Pegida Austria, Pegida Bulgaria, and Pegida Netherlands, met with Lutz Bachmann and Tatjana Festerling in the Czech Republic to sign the Prague Declaration, which states their belief that the \"history of Western civilisation could soon come to an end through Islam conquering Europe\", thus formalizing their membership in the Fortress Europe coalition against that eventuality. Other signatories present were: Blok proti islámu, Eesti Konservatiivne Rahvaerakond, Lega Nord, Odvaha, Ruch Narodowy and Úsvit - Národní Koalice. Úsvit's Marek Černoch said that the meeting was, among other things, a reaction to the attacks on women in Cologne in Germany on New Year’s Eve, which took place as celebrations were being held to usher in 2016. At the end of the Prague Declaration, above the signatures, it is stated that there would be demonstrations on 6 February 2016 to manifest their determination. Others who joined Fortress Europe or participated in Pegida-organized demonstrations are: Identity Ireland, Pegida Ireland, Pegida Switzerland, Pegida UK, Reclaim Australia, and former French Foreign Legion General Christian Piquemal's group in Calais (lists may not be comprehensive).\n\nPegida Ireland is the Irish branch of the German-based movement Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamisation of the West (\"\"; Pegida), a far-right, anti-Islamic political movement.\n\nIt had planned to have its inaugural rally on 6 February 2016, during which Identity Ireland's Peter O’Loughlin, who is also leader of Pegida Ireland, was to speak. Whilst on his way to the rally on a Luas tram, he and members of the movement were attacked by a group of men wearing black masks. While Minister for Health Leo Varadkar condemned the attack, he also expressed concern at the establishment of Pegida in Ireland. \n\nA demonstration was organised in O'Connell St. against the proposed Pegida rally. Hundreds participated in the counter-demonstration, which included support from the Anti-Racism Network, Dublin Calais Refugee Solidarity, Irish Refugee Council, European Network Against Racism, various Muslim organisations, the Africa Centre, Dublin Housing Network, Republican Sinn Féin, the Anti-Austerity Alliance, People Before Profit, Sinn Féin, the Workers' Party and the Workers Solidarity Movement. The planned rally never took place. A group of Pegida supporters was attacked and chased into a store by a group who broke away from the main demo. Green Party councillor Ciarán Cuffe condemned the \"ugly scenes\" of violence against counter-demonstrators by Gardaí. \n\nIreland became the 15th country with an established Pegida presence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2045565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2045565", "title": "Pole shift hypothesis", "text": "Pole shift hypothesis\n\nThe cataclysmic pole shift fringe theory suggests that there have been geologically rapid shifts in the relative positions of the modern-day geographic locations of the poles and the axis of rotation of the Earth, creating calamities such as floods and tectonic events.\n\nThere is evidence of precession and changes in axial tilt, but this change is on much longer time-scales and does not involve relative motion of the spin axis with respect to the planet. However, in what is known as true polar wander, the solid Earth can rotate with respect to a fixed spin axis. Research shows that during the last 200 million years a total true polar wander of some 30° has occurred, but that no super-rapid shifts in the Earth's pole were found during this period. A characteristic rate of true polar wander is 1° or less per million years. Between approximately 790 and 810 million years ago, when the supercontinent Rodinia existed, two geologically rapid phases of true polar wander may have occurred. In each of these, the magnetic poles of the Earth shifted by approximately 55°.\n\nThe geographic poles are defined by the points on the surface of the Earth that are intersected by the axis of rotation. The pole shift hypothesis describes a change in location of these poles with respect to the underlying surface – a phenomenon distinct from the changes in axial orientation with respect to the plane of the ecliptic that are caused by precession and nutation, and is an amplified event of a true polar wander.\n\nPole shift hypotheses are not connected with plate tectonics, the well-accepted geological theory that the Earth's surface consists of solid plates which shift over a viscous, or semifluid asthenosphere; nor with continental drift, the corollary to plate tectonics which maintains that locations of the continents have moved slowly over the face of the Earth, resulting in the gradual emerging and breakup of continents and oceans over hundreds of millions of years.\n\nPole shift hypotheses are not the same as geomagnetic reversal, the periodic reversal of the Earth's magnetic field (effectively switching the north and south magnetic poles).\n\nIn popular literature, many conjectures have been suggested involving very rapid polar shift. A slow shift in the poles would display the most minor alterations and no destruction. A more dramatic view assumes more rapid changes, with dramatic alterations of geography and localized areas of destruction due to earthquakes and tsunamis.\n\nAn early mention of a shifting of the Earth's axis can be found in an 1872 article entitled \"Chronologie historique des Mexicains\" by Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg, a specialist in Mesoamerican codices who interpreted ancient Mexican myths as evidence for four periods of global cataclysms that had begun around 10,500 BCE.\nIn 1889, Jules Verne imagined the possible consequences of artificial pole shift. \nIn 1948, Hugh Auchincloss Brown, an electrical engineer, advanced a hypothesis of catastrophic pole shift. Brown also argued that accumulation of ice at the poles caused recurring tipping of the axis, identifying cycles of approximately seven millennia.\n\nIn his controversial 1950 work \"Worlds in Collision\", Immanuel Velikovsky postulated that the planet Venus emerged from Jupiter as a comet. During two proposed near approaches in about 1,450 BCE, he suggested that the direction of the Earth's rotation was changed radically, then reverted to its original direction on the next pass. This disruption supposedly caused earthquakes, tsunamis, and the parting of the Red Sea. Further, he said near misses by Mars between 776 and 687 BCE also caused the Earth's axis to change back and forth by ten degrees. Velikovsky cited historical records in support of his work, although his studies were generally ridiculed by the scientific community.\n\nCharles Hapgood is now perhaps the best remembered early proponent. In his books \"The Earth's Shifting Crust\" (1958) (which includes a foreword by Albert Einstein) and \"Path of the Pole\" (1970), Hapgood speculated that accumulated polar ice mass destabilizes the Earth's rotation, causing crustal displacement but not disturbing the Earth's axial orientation. Hapgood argued that shifts (of no more than 40 degrees) occurred about every 5,000 years, interrupting 20,000- to 30,000-year periods of polar stability. He cited recent North Pole locations in Hudson Bay (60°N, 73°W), the Atlantic Ocean between Iceland and Norway (72°N, 10°E) and the Yukon (63°N, 135°W). However, in his subsequent work \"The Path of the Pole\", Hapgood conceded Einstein's point that the weight of the polar ice is insufficient to cause polar shift. Instead, Hapgood argued that causative forces must be located below the surface. Hapgood encouraged Canadian librarian Rand Flem-Ath to pursue scientific evidence backing Hapgood's claims. Flem-Ath published the results of this work in 1995 in \"When the Sky Fell\" co-written with his wife Rose.\n\nIn 1974 Flavio Barbiero, an engineer and explorer, theorized that shifting of the Earth's axis took place 11,000 years ago and caused what was subsequently recorded in myth as the destruction of Atlantis and Mu. He suggested that shifting was probably caused by the impact of a comet on the Earth's surface and that the current position of Atlantis has to be sought under the Antarctic ice sheet.\n\nSeveral authors have offered pseudoscientific arguments for the hypothesis, including journalist and New Age enthusiast Ruth Shick Montgomery, Richard W. Noone, retired civil engineer James G. Bowles, and \"William Hutton,\" reportedly the pseudonym of geologist Wyman Harrison. Skeptics counter that these works combine speculation, the work of psychics, and modern folklore, while largely ignoring the mainstream scientific view that only the Earth's magnetic poles shift, with little to no observable physical effect.\n\nWhile there are reputable studies showing that true polar wander has occurred at various times in the past, the rates are much smaller (1° per million years or slower) than predicted by the pole shift hypothesis (up to 1° per thousand years). Analysis of the evidence does not lend credence to Hapgood's hypothesized rapid displacement of layers of the Earth.\nData indicates that the geographical poles have not deviated by more than about 5° over the last 130 million years, contradicting the hypothesis of a cataclysmic polar wander event.\nMore rapid past possible occurrences of true polar wander have been measured: from 790 to 810 million years ago, true polar wander of approximately 55° may have occurred twice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1939721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939721", "title": "Queen Anne's Revenge", "text": "Queen Anne's Revenge\n\nQueen Anne's Revenge was an early-18th-century ship, most famously used as a flagship by the pirate Blackbeard (Edward Teach). Although the date and place of the ship's construction are uncertain, it is believed she was built for merchant service in Bristol in 1710 and named \"Concord\". One year later she was captured by the French and renamed \"La Concorde\". After several years' service with the French (both as a naval frigate and as a merchant vessel - much of the time as a slave trading ship), she was captured by Blackbeard and his pirates in 1717. Blackbeard used the ship for less than a year, but captured numerous prizes using her as his flagship.\n\nIn May 1718, Blackbeard ran the ship aground at Beaufort Inlet, North Carolina, in the present-day Carteret County. After the grounding, her crew and supplies were transferred to smaller ships. In 1996 Intersal, Inc., a private firm, discovered the remains of a vessel that was later determined to be \"Queen Anne's Revenge\", which was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe 200-ton vessel, originally named \"Concord\", was a cargo and merchant vessel believed to have been built in 1710. She was captured in 1711 by the French warships \"Élisabeth\" and \"Hampton\" (both ships were also originally British and had been captured at an earlier date), and was fitted out as a French light frigate, with her name now spelt \"Concorde\". She was handed over to René Duguay-Trouin and employed in his service for some time before being converted into a slave ship, now operated by the leading slave trader René Montaudin of Nantes, until sold in 1713 in Peru or Chile. She was briefly re-acquired by the French Navy in November 1716, but was sold by them for commerce five months later in France, again for use as a slaver. She was captured by Blackbeard and his pirates on 28 November 1717, near the island of Saint Vincent.\n\nAfter selling her cargo of slaves at Martinique, Blackbeard made \"La Concorde\" into his flagship, adding more heavy cannon and renaming her \"Queen Anne's Revenge\". The name may come from the War of the Spanish Succession, known in the Americas as Queen Anne's War, in which Blackbeard had served in the Royal Navy, or possibly from sympathy for Queen Anne, the last Stuart monarch. Blackbeard sailed this ship from the west coast of Africa to the Caribbean, attacking British, Dutch, and Portuguese merchant ships along the way.\n\nShortly after blockading Charleston harbor in May 1718, and refusing to accept the Governor's offer of a pardon, Blackbeard ran \"Queen Anne's Revenge\" aground while entering Beaufort Inlet, North Carolina on 10 June 1718. A deposition given by the former captain of \"Adventure\", David Herriot, states \"Thatch's [Teach's] ship \"Queen Anne's Revenge\" run a-ground off of the Bar of Topsail-Inlet.\" He also states that \"Adventure\" \"run a-ground likewise about Gun-shot from the said Thatch\" in an attempt to kedge \"Queen Anne's Revenge\" off the bar. Teach then disbanded his flotilla and escaped by transferring supplies onto the smaller sloop, \"Adventure\". He stranded several crew members on a small island nearby, where they were later rescued by Captain Stede Bonnet. Some suggest Blackbeard deliberately grounded the ship as an excuse to disperse the crew. Shortly afterward, Blackbeard did surrender and accepted a royal pardon for himself and his remaining crewmen from Governor Charles Eden at Bath, North Carolina. However, he eventually returned to piracy and was killed in combat in November 1718.\n\nIntersal Inc., a private research firm, discovered the wreck believed to be \"Queen Anne’s Revenge\" QAR on November 21, 1996. It was located by Intersal's director of operations, Mike Daniel, who used historical research provided by Intersal's president, Phil Masters and maritime archaeologist David Moore. The shipwreck lies in 28 feet (8.5 m) of water about one mile (1.6 km) offshore of Fort Macon State Park (34°41′44″N 76°41′20″W), Atlantic Beach, North Carolina. Thirty-one cannons have been identified to date and more than 250,000 artifacts have been recovered. The cannons are of different origins including Sweden, England and possibly France, and of different sizes as would be expected with a colonial pirate crew.\n\nRecognizing the significance of \"Queen Anne's Revenge\", the North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural Resources (NCDNCR), Intersal, and Maritime Research Institute (MRI) entered into a memorandum of agreement in 1998. Intersal agreed to forego entitlement to any coins and precious metals recovered from the wreck site in order that all artifacts remain as one intact collection, and in order for NCDNCR to determine the ultimate disposition of the artifacts. In return, Intersal was granted media-, replica- and other rights related to an entity known as Blackbeard's Queen Anne's Revenge Shipwreck Project; MRI was granted joint artifact touring rights with NCDNCR. NCDNCR, Intersal, and Rick Allen of Nautilus Productions signed a settlement agreement on October 24, 2013 connected to commercial-, replica- and promotional opportunities for the benefit of \"Queen Anne's Revenge\". The State of North Carolina owns the wreck since it lies in state waters (within the three-mile limit).\n\nFor one week in 2000 and 2001, live underwater video of the project was webcast to the Internet as a part of the \"QAR DiveLive\" educational program that reached thousands of children around the world. Created and co-produced by Nautilus Productions and Marine Grafics, this project enabled students to talk to scientists and learn about methods and technologies utilized by the underwater archaeology team.\n\nIn November 2006 and 2007, more artifacts were discovered at the site and brought to the surface. The additional artifacts appear to support the claim that the wreck is that of \"Queen Anne's Revenge\". Among evidence to support this theory is that the cannons were found loaded. In addition, there were more cannons than would be expected for a ship of this size, and the cannons were of different makes. Depth markings on the part of the stern that was recovered point to it having been made according to the French foot measurements.\n\nBy the end of 2007, approximately one third of the wreck was fully excavated. Part of the hull of the ship, including much of the keel and part of the stern post, has survived. The sternpost was recovered in November 2007. The North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural Resources set up the website \"Queen Anne's Revenge\" to build on intense public interest in the finds. Artifacts recovered in 2008 include loose ceramic and pewter fragments, lead strainer fragments, a nesting weight, cannon apron, ballast stones, a sword guard and a coin.\n\nGoals during the 2010 field season included staging of one of the ship's largest main deck cannons to the large artifact holding area on site, taking corrosion readings from anchors and cannon undergoing in situ corrosion treatment, attaching aluminum-alloy anodes to the remaining anchors and cannons so as to begin their in situ \ncorrosion treatment and continuing site excavations.\n\nIn 2011, the anchor from the ship was brought to the surface along with a range of makeshift weaponry including langrage or canister shot.\n\nOn August 29, 2011, the National Geographic Society reported that the State of North Carolina had confirmed the shipwreck as \"Queen Anne's Revenge\", reversing a conclusion previously maintained because of a lack of conclusive evidence. Specific artifacts that support this conclusion include a brass coin weight bearing the bust of Queen Anne of England, cast during her reign (1702–1714); the stem of a wine glass decorated with diamonds and tiny embossed crowns, made to commemorate the 1714 coronation of Queen Anne's successor, King George I; the remains of a French hunting sword featuring a bust that closely resembles King Louis XV, who claimed the French throne in 1715; and a urethral syringe for treating venereal diseases with a control mark indicating manufacture between 1707 and 1715 in Paris, France.\n\nOn June 21, 2013, the National Geographic Society reported recovery of two cannons from \"Queen Anne's Revenge\".\n\nOn October 28, 2013, archaeologists recovered five more cannons from the wreck. Three of these have been identified as iron 6-pounders manufactured at works in Södermanland, Sweden, in 1713. Thomas Roth, the head of\nSweden's Armament Museum Research Department, derived the origin of the iron cannons by a mark on their tubes.\n\nThe 23rd of 31 cannons identified at the wreck site was recovered on October 24, 2014. The gun is approximately long, weighs over and may be a sister to a Swedish gun that was previously recovered. Nine cannonballs, bar shot halves, an iron bolt and a grenado were also recovered during the 2014 field season.\n\nIn January 2018, sixteen fragments of paper were identified after being recovered from sludge inside a cannon. The scraps were from a copy of the book \"A Voyage to the South Sea, and Round the World, Perform’d in the Years 1708, 1709, 1710 and 1711\" by Captain Edward Cooke; it is likely the pages were torn from the book and used as wadding in that cannon.\n\n\"Queen Anne's Revenge\" was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2004. The reference number is 04000148. It is listed as owned by the state of North Carolina and located near Morehead City, North Carolina. The wreck site is designated 31CR314 by the state of North Carolina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54540850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54540850", "title": "Ronde script (calligraphy)", "text": "Ronde script (calligraphy)\n\nRonde (\"round\" in French) is a kind of script in which the heavy strokes are nearly upright, giving the characters when taken together a round look.\n\nRonde script appeared in France at the end of the 16th century, and was popularized by writing masters such as Louis Barbedor in the 17th century. In its original form, it borrowed some of its letterforms from the round Gothic style. This style of writing was still in use (with some modifications) until the 20th century because it was used in French school manuals to teach the bases of cursive writing. It was also commonly used by the scribes of the French Ministry of Finance until right after World War II, which gave this style the name of \"écriture ronde finnancière\" (\"round financial writing\", not to be confused with the \"financière\" writing style).\n\nThe classic French rondes where also very present in the work of 18th century type founder and calligrapher Nicholas Gando, which has been revived for the digital medium by way of the French 111 font.\n"}
{"id": "36688272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36688272", "title": "Roy Bryce-Laporte", "text": "Roy Bryce-Laporte\n\nRoy Simon Bryce-Laporte (born Roy Laporte; September 7, 1933 in Panama City – July 30, 2012 in Sykesville, Maryland) was a sociologist who established one of the first African-American studies departments.\n\nRoy Simon Laporte was born and raised in the Republic of Panama, of a family of mixed West Indian and African ancestry.\n\nBryce-Laporte attended the University of Panama, earning an associate degree, before earning bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Nebraska at Lincoln and studying at the University of Puerto Rico. He completed a Ph.D. in sociology at UCLA.\n\nHe taught at Hunter College at CUNY and then at Yale, before becoming the founding director of Yale's department of African-American studies, established in 1969. The Yale department's approach to African-American studies, and Bryce-Laporte's as well, centered not just on African-American history in the United States but on African experience in the entire Western hemisphere (the hemispheric studies approach) and what has come to be called the African diaspora. Bryce-Laporte's research centered on the experiences of Black immigrants in the United States.\n\nAfter Yale, Bryce-Laporte taught at a variety of institutions including College of Staten Island at CUNY, Syracuse University, Catholic University of America, Howard University, University of Pennsylvania, and Colorado College. He was the founding director of Smithsonian Institution's Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies. In 1989 Bryce-Laporte joined the faculty at Colgate University as John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, and director of its Africana and Latin American studies program.\n\nHe was married to Dorotea Lowe Bryce and companions with Marian D. Holness, and parented three children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6345208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6345208", "title": "SOAS Bulletin of Burma Research", "text": "SOAS Bulletin of Burma Research\n\nThe SOAS Bulletin of Burma Research (ISSN 1479-8484) is an academic journal specializing in Burma studies and history that was published twice a year at the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London. It was last published in 2008.\n\nArticles include original research as well as reprints of important historical sources. The journal also contains book reviews, abstracts for recent doctoral dissertations, and announcements. \n\nThe journal is published in PDF format with a small number of hard copies deposited in selected libraries. \n\n"}
{"id": "56987566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56987566", "title": "Saint Philip (Nanni di Banco)", "text": "Saint Philip (Nanni di Banco)\n\nSaint Philip is an Apuan marble statue of Philip the Apostle by Nanni di Banco. It forms part of a cycle of fourteen sculptures commissioned for the external niches of Orsanmichele in Florence, each showing the patron saint of one of the city's guilds. It is 2.5 m high and was commissioned by the Arte dei Calzolai. Completed around 1410-1412, it is now in the Museo di Orsanmichele, although a replica fills its original niche.\n\n"}
{"id": "3762577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3762577", "title": "Secondary authority", "text": "Secondary authority\n\nIn law, a secondary authority is an authority purporting to explain the meaning or applicability of the actual verbatim texts of primary authorities (such as constitutions, statutes, case law, administrative regulations, executive orders, treaties, or similar legal instruments).\n\nSome secondary authority materials are written and published by governments to explain the laws in simple, non-technical terms, while other secondary authority materials are written and published by private companies, non-profit organizations, or other groups or individuals. Some examples of secondary authority are:\n\n\nIn the United States, various legal scholars disagree over whether legislative histories in the form of texts of congressional committee reports should be considered to be secondary authority or, alternatively, primary authority.\n\nAlthough secondary authorities are sometimes used in legal research (especially, to allow a researcher to gain a preliminary, overall understanding of an unfamiliar area of law) and are sometimes even cited by courts in deciding cases, secondary authorities are generally afforded less weight than the actual texts of primary authority.\n"}
{"id": "483256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483256", "title": "Sweet &amp; Maxwell", "text": "Sweet &amp; Maxwell\n\nSweet & Maxwell is a British publisher specialising in legal publications. It joined the Associated Book Publishers in 1969; ABP was purchased by the Thomson Organization in 1987, and is now part of Thomson Reuters. Its British group includes W. Green in Scotland and Round Hall in Ireland. Sweet & Maxwell publishes Westlaw-UK, as well as the Lawtel, LocalawUK, Legal Hub, and DocDel on-line services. It also published many well-regarded looseleafs and books.\n\nIts flagship print products include the \"White Book\" (publishing the Civil Procedure Rules 1998 (CPR) along with extensive commentary and additional material) and \"Archbold Criminal Pleading, Evidence and Practice\" (the leading practitioners' text for criminal lawyers in England & Wales and several other common law jurisdictions around the world). In 2003, its Asia division (with headquarters in Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Singapore) won the contract to supply law books to the Hong Kong government. Sweet & Maxwell is part of the European law publishers initiative Law Publishers in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121231", "title": "The Firesign Theatre's Box of Danger", "text": "The Firesign Theatre's Box of Danger\n\n\"The Firesign Theatre's Box of Danger: The Complete Nick Danger Casebook\" is a four-CD boxed set of most recorded material by comedy group The Firesign Theatre containing their fictional character Nick Danger, portrayed by Phil Austin. Danger is a parody of the hard-boiled detective genre, and is often announced as \"Nick Danger, Third Eye\", a parody of the term \"private eye\". Danger stories involve stereotypical film noir situations, including mistaken identity, betrayal, and femme fatales. Danger originally appeared on the 1969 album \"How Can You Be in Two Places at Once When You're Not Anywhere at All\", and was reprised in various live shows, radio appearances and albums, including the 1979 \"\", 1984 \"The Three Faces of Al\", and 2001 \"The Bride of Firesign\".\n\nDanger debuts in a 28:11 track on side 2 of the 1969 album \"How Can You Be in Two Places at Once When You're Not Anywhere at All\". This is an episode titled \"Cut 'Em Off at the Past\", of a mock radio program purportedly aired on December 6, 1941. Rocky Rococo comes to Danger's office and attempts to sell him the ring Danger gave Nancy back in college. Danger goes to the mansion where Nancy lives and meets her butler Catherwood. After knocking Danger unconscious, Catherwood and Nancy murder Rococo, who is blackmailing them. They attempt to frame Danger for their crime, but Danger forces Catherwood to reveal the truth, and solves his problem by some means we will never know; the show is interrupted by the news bulletin of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt (Bergman) announcing the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.\n\nOn the 1972 live album \"Not Insane or Anything You Want To\", the group presented a self-parody of Nick Danger. This has Austin playing the title role as a Japanese detective Young Guy, Proctor as his Japanese girlfriend Miki, Ossman as the detective's robotic Japanese butler Rotonoto, and Bergman as American police Lieutenant Brad Shaw.\n\nIn 1976, while Proctor and Bergman went on sabbatical from The Firesign Theatre to produce a live show, Austin and Ossman produced a two-act live show, \"Radio Laffs of 1940\". Act one pits Danger against a cabal of Nazi spies conspiring to remake America by converting its radio drama to dadaist surreal humor. Bergman's absence forced the omission of Lieutenant Bradshaw, and Ossman voiced all the non-Danger roles, including several females.\n\nIn 1979, the Firesign Theatre produced five short (2:24) episodes of a prospective comic radio serial (similar to the 1960s syndicated \"Chickenman\"). These were released by Rhino Records on a 12:00 EP record.\n\nThis 1984 album was produced without David Ossman, who had temporarily left to produce shows for National Public Radio. This story is inspired by a line in the original \"Cut 'Em Off at the Past\" where Bradshwaw tells Danger, \"You're lucky we didn't burn ya on the Anselmo pederasty case.\" Bradshaw has realized his dream to become District Attorney, and gets his chance to prosecute Danger, who is the apparent suspect in the murder of mob boss Anselmo Von Pederazzi. Nancy and Rocky Rococo also appear.\n\nAll four Firesigns reunited for their second wave in 1993 with a 25th anniversary reunion tour. On November 11, they gave a live performance of the original Nick Danger \"Cut 'Em Off At The Past\" at Keswick Theatre in Glenside, Pennsylvania. This performance was originally released on the reunion tour album in June 1994.\n\nIn October 2001, the Firesign Theatre got a series on XM Satellite Radio titled \"Fools In Space\". They produced seven serial Nick Danger episodes for this show, the first three broadcast on October 27, November 17, and December 15.\n\nThe XM Satellite show \"Fools In Space\" continued through August 2002. Four more Nick Danger episodes were broadcast on January 26, February 23, April 27, and August 24.\n\nThe Firesigns performed approximately once a month on NPR's \"All Things Considered\" news program from July 2002 to April 2003, released on a CD album in 2003. Two performances, on October 3 and December 24, featured Nick Danger. The Christmas Eve show featured a parody of the poem \"A Visit from St. Nicholas\".\n\nNick Danger also appeared on a track of the 2001 album \"Bride of Firesign\", the third installment of the \"We're Doomed\" trilogy. This was not included in the \"Box of Danger\".\n"}
{"id": "51628988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51628988", "title": "Thongor", "text": "Thongor\n\nThongor is a character in a series of sword-and-sorcery novels & stories written by Lin Carter, stylized after Conan the Barbarian and set in ancient Lemuria. The character was picked up by Marvel Comics in the 1970s for its series \"Creatures on the Loose\" which saw some of Carter's stories adapted, as well as the author himself contributing to later issues.\n\n\nIn 1978 a Thongor movie was said to be in production for release in 1979. Titled \"Thongor in the Valley of Demons\", the project was later cancelled.\n"}
{"id": "28155171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28155171", "title": "Varsity Brands", "text": "Varsity Brands\n\nVarsity Brands is a private company in the United States. The company produces apparel and equipment for football and 11 other sports; class rings, graduation regalia, jewelry and yearbooks, and motivation and recognition tools and resources; cheerleading, and dance activities, with subsidiary units and programs that regulate and administer most organized collegiate cheerleading and dance activities within the United States . Involvement in cheerleading and dance activities includes its ownership of subsidiaries and programs that conduct competitions and camps. Notably, the breadth of influence Varsity Brands Inc. possesses over cheerleading and dance activities has led to discussion of potential conflicts of interest including its interests related to the issue of the classification of competitive cheerleading as a sport in the United States.\n\nVarsity Brands Inc. is based in Farmers Branch, Texas, and is made up of three companies: Varsity Spirit, which sells uniforms, hosts competitions, and runs instructional cheerleading and dance camps; Herff Jones, which is a provider of graduation and educations products such as class rings, jewelry, caps and gowns, yearbooks and recognition products; and BSN Sports, a distributor of sports uniforms and equipment. \n\nVarsity Brands made news in 2014 when it began negotiations to be acquired by Charlesbank Capital Partners, a private equity group. and again in 2018, when it was announced that Bain Capital Private Equity would be acquiring the company \n\nAdam Blumenfeld, who served as CEO of BSN Sports since 2007, was named CEO of Varsity Brands in 2017 . \n\nVarsity Brands has partnered with St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital as part of their “Team Up for St. Jude, Spirited by Varsity” campaign, and has raised $5 million to date. They have provided caps, gowns and achievement products for the St. Jude School Program by Chili’s, implemented a fundraising letter campaign at summer camps, donated a percentage of sales of select items, coordinated pep rallies and volunteer events, and participated in the St. Jude Walk/Run to End Childhood Cancer and the St. Jude Memphis Marathon .\n\nWhile holding an interest in the business of cheerleading apparel, Varsity Brands Inc. owns subsidiaries and programs:\n\nThese conflicts of interest were a main focus of Season 8, episode 1 of \n\nPrograms and subsidiaries of Varsity Brands Inc. include:\n\nIn 2015, Varsity Brands created the America’s Most Spirited High School Contest. High schools from 33 states were represented in the inaugural contest. In September 2015, Vista Murietta High School in California was announced as the winner. The school received $25,000 from Varsity Brands.\n\nIn 2016, Varsity Brands launched the Varsity Brands School Spirit Awards. The awards include sixteen different categories. Each winner received prize money, adding up to $25,000 in awards from Varsity Brands. Today, there are 25 categories and $100,000 distributed among the winning students, schools and staff. Laurie Hernandez and Richard Curtis hosted the Varsity Brands School Spirit Awards in 2017 and 2018 \n\n"}
