{"id": "4334788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4334788", "title": "Aplasia", "text": "Aplasia\n\nAplasia (; from Greek \"a\" (not, no); \"plasis\" (molding)) is defined in general as \"defective development or congenital absence of an organ or tissue.\" In the field of hematology, the term refers to \"incomplete, retarded, or defective development, or cessation of the usual regenerative process.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55261687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55261687", "title": "Behavioural responses to stress", "text": "Behavioural responses to stress\n\nBehavioural responses to stress are evoked from underlying complex physiological changes that arise consequently from stress.\n\nReal or perceived threat in the environment elicits stress response in animals, which disrupts internal homeostasis. Physiological changes cause behavioural responses in animals, including: impairment of response inhibition and lack of motivation, as well as changes in social, sexual, aggression and nurture behaviour in animals. The extent of the impact is dependent upon the type and duration of the stress, as well as the animal's past experiences. Behavioural responses to prolonged stress can also be transferred across generations.\nA stress, as defined to Walter Cannon (1871–1945), is any disturbance that imbalances the internal environment of an organism (i.e. their homeostasis). There are two major types of stressors that cause stress to animals: abiotic stressors and biotic stressors. Abiotic stressors are any ecological, geological, or climate changes that causes stress to the animal, such as increased temperatures and natural disasters. Biotic stressors are living things related complications that causes stress, such as dominance, pollution, infection, social pressures, and competition. Animals can respond with physiological responses, behavioural responses, psychological responses, or physical responses (fight-or-flight). Canon argued that there are two possible choices that an organism may choose when stress is encountered: fight responses or flight responses.\n\nBehavioural responses to stress are evoked from some underlying complex physiological changes that arise consequently from stress. \n\nAccording to a study conducted by Mika and his colleagues, prolonged stress in rats causes response inhibition. It was evident through their experiment that stressed rats had inhibited premature responses (decreased timing of intervals to food), along with decreased intrinsic motivation to initiate a response. They link the decreased motivation to the stress-associated reduction in incentive motivation, as presented by another study conducted by Kleen and his colleagues. Decreased motivation was also seen in a study conducted by Beery and Kaufer, where they explained that stressed rodents are less likely to be motivated to interact with one another.\n\nBeery and Kaufer noted that social withdrawal and general reduction in social interaction after an exposure to a stressor are evident in rodents. They argue that this is due to the underlying physiological changes that the rodent goes through in response to stress. For instance, the changes that occur to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) hormonal axis is directly related to the changes in social behaviour. Social avoidance is another consequence of stress that can be seen in rodents. Rodents are more likely to avoid dominant rats and avoid social interactions amongst each other after the exposure to a stressor.\n\nSexual interests change in many species when exposed to stressors. For instance, stressed male and female rats express inhibited mating behaviour, which is evident through the clear increase in the inhibitory hormone RF-amide. Another study suggests that masculine sexual behaviour in male rats is subject to changes in accordance to the type of stressors that the rats were subjected to. The female zebra finch's mating choice is determined by the stressors that they are exposed to early in life, which remain consistent throughout adulthood. A study about stress effects on female songbird’s response to sexual signal for mating indicated that the response to this specific signal can be impaired if the female is exposed to developmental stress. Behavioural changes as a result from developmental stress impairs neural responses to sexual signals, which reduces mating.\n\nStressed animals would choose to avoid a novel situation rather than confront it. Aggressive behaviour is associated with sex hormones, such as testosterone, and specific brain regions and systems, such as the medial preoptic nucleus, prefrontal cortex-dependent response inhibition, and anterior hypothalamus. Stress negatively impacts sex hormones, which results in an imbalance and reduction in aggression related hormones and function. Also, chronic stress results in prefrontal cortex-dependent response inhibition. This results in reduction in aggression, thus promoting anti-predator responses.\n\nProlonged stress alters parental behaviour toward offspring and promotes parental neglect. According to a study performed by Tilgar and associates, predation stress alters parents’ behaviours, such as the reduction in provisioning rates, which negatively impacts the offspring’s performance. The hormones oxytocin and vasopressin are generally responsible for affiliative and pair-bonding behaviours in many species. Stress alters the level of both hormones, resulting in an abnormal behaviour from parents towards offspring. For instance, levels of oxytocin decrease as a result of prolonged stress, which has been shown to reduce pair-bonding behaviour and increase withdrawal behaviour. Prolactin is another important hormone that is associated with nurture by parents to offspring, and levels of this hormone can be altered as a result of stress. Reduced levels of prolactin as a result of stress decreases behaviours such as suckling, licking, and brooding.\n\nBehavioural response to stress can be transmitted from parents to offspring. When an offspring observes the expression of behaviour such as fear in response to a stress stimulus, the same response would be elicited in the offspring when the stimulus is presented. Debeik and associates illustrated in rodents that fear is transferred from mother to infant in response to a certain odour stimulus. They further proved that the neural activity, such as the basal amygdala activity of the offspring’s brain, illustrated fear response.\n"}
{"id": "1409541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409541", "title": "Berkson's paradox", "text": "Berkson's paradox\n\nBerkson's paradox also known as Berkson's bias or Berkson's fallacy is a result in conditional probability and statistics which is counterintuitive for some people, and hence a veridical paradox. It is a complicating factor arising in statistical tests of proportions. Specifically, it arises when there is an ascertainment bias inherent in a study design. The effect is related to the explaining away phenomenon in Bayesian networks.\n\nThe most common example of Berkson's paradox is a false observation of a \"negative\" correlation between two positive traits, i.e., that members of a population which have some positive trait tend to lack a second. Berkson's paradox occurs when this observation appears true when in reality the two properties are unrelated—or even \"positively\" correlated—because members of the population where both are absent are not equally observed. For example, a person may observe from their experience that fast food joints in their area which serve good burgers tend to serve bad fries and vice versa; but because they would likely not eat anywhere where both were bad, they fail to allow for the large number of joints in this category which would weaken or even flip the correlation.\n\nIt is often described in the fields of medical statistics or biostatistics, as in the original description of the problem by Joseph Berkson.\n\nThe result is that two independent events become conditionally dependent (negatively dependent) given that at least one of them occurs. Symbolically: \n\nIn other words, given two independent events, if you consider only outcomes where at least one occurs, then they become negatively dependent, as shown above.\n\nThe cause is that the \"conditional\" probability of event \"formula_5\" occurring, \"given\" that it or formula_6 occurs, is inflated: it is higher than the \"unconditional\" probability, because we have \"excluded\" cases where \"neither\" occur.\n\nOne can see this in tabular form as follows: the yellow regions are the outcomes where at least one event occurs (and ~A means \"not A\").\nFor instance, if one has a sample of formula_28, and both \"formula_5\" and formula_6 occur independently half the time ( formula_31 ), one obtains:\nSo in formula_32 outcomes, either \"formula_5\" or formula_6 occurs, of which formula_35 have \"formula_5\" occurring. By comparing the conditional probability of \"formula_5\" to the unconditional probability of \"formula_5\": \nWe see that the probability of formula_5 is higher (formula_41) in the subset of outcomes where (\"formula_5\" \"or\" \"formula_6\") occurs, than in the overall population (formula_44). On the other hand, the probability of formula_5 given both formula_6 and (\"formula_5\" or \"formula_6\") is simply the unconditional probability of \"formula_5\", formula_50), since \"formula_5\" is independent of \"formula_6\". In the numerical example, we have conditioned on being in the top row:\n\nHere the probability of \"formula_5\" is formula_54.\n\nBerkson's paradox arises because the conditional probability of \"formula_5\" given formula_6 \"within the three-cell subset\" equals the conditional probability in the overall population, but the unconditional probability within the subset is inflated relative to the unconditional probability in the overall population, hence, within the subset, the presence of formula_6 decreases the conditional probability of \"formula_5\" (back to its overall unconditional probability):\n\nBerkson's original illustration involves a retrospective study examining a risk factor for a disease in a statistical sample from a hospital in-patient population. Because samples are taken from a hospital in-patient population, rather than from the general public, this can result in a spurious negative association between the disease and the risk factor. For example, if the risk factor is diabetes and the disease is cholecystitis, a hospital patient \"without\" diabetes is \"more\" likely to have cholecystitis than a member of the general population, since the patient must have had some non-diabetes (possibly cholecystitis-causing) reason to enter the hospital in the first place. That result will be obtained regardless of whether there is any association between diabetes and cholecystitis in the general population.\n\nAn example presented by Jordan Ellenberg: Suppose Alex will only date a man if his niceness plus his handsomeness exceeds some threshold. Then nicer men do not have to be as handsome to qualify for Alex's dating pool. So, \"among the men that Alex dates\", Alex may observe that the nicer ones are less handsome on average (and vice versa), even if these traits are uncorrelated in the general population. Note that this does not mean that men in the dating pool compare unfavorably with men in the population. On the contrary, Alex's selection criterion means that Alex has high standards. The average nice man that Alex dates is actually more handsome than the average man in the population (since even among nice men, the ugliest portion of the population is skipped). Berkson's negative correlation is an effect that arises \"within\" the dating pool: the rude men that Alex dates must have been \"even more\" handsome to qualify.\n\nAs a quantitative example, suppose a collector has 1000 postage stamps, of which 300 are pretty and 100 are rare, with 30 being both pretty and rare. 10% of all his stamps are rare and 10% of his pretty stamps are rare, so prettiness tells nothing about rarity. He puts the 370 stamps which are pretty or rare on display. Just over 27% of the stamps on display are rare (100/370), but still only 10% of the pretty stamps are rare (and 100% of the 70 not-pretty stamps on display are rare). If an observer only considers stamps on display, she will observe a spurious negative relationship between prettiness and rarity as a result of the selection bias (that is, not-prettiness strongly indicates rarity in the display, but not in the total collection).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10799243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10799243", "title": "Breast cyst", "text": "Breast cyst\n\nA breast cyst is a fluid-filled sac within the breast. One breast can have one or more breast cysts. They are often described as round or oval lumps with distinct edges. In texture, a breast cyst usually feels like a soft grape or a water-filled balloon, but sometimes a breast cyst feels firm.\n\nBreast cysts can be painful and may be worrisome but are generally benign. They are most common in pre-menopausal women in their 30s or 40s. They usually disappear after menopause, but may persist or reappear when using hormone therapy. They are also common in adolescents.\nBreast cysts can be part of fibrocystic disease. The pain and swelling is usually worse in the second half of the menstrual cycle or during pregnancy.\n\nTreating breast cysts is usually not necessary unless they are painful or cause discomfort. In most cases, the discomfort they cause may be alleviated by draining the fluid from the cyst. The cysts form as a result of the growth of the milk glands and their size may range from smaller than a pea to larger than a ping pong ball. Small cysts cannot be felt during a physical examination, and some large cysts feel like lumps. However, most cysts, regardless of their size cannot be identified during physical exams.\n\nBreast cysts are not to be confused with \"milk cysts\" (galactoceles), which usually appear during weaning.\n\nSigns and symptoms of breast cysts include: \n\nLumps in the breast are often not found during self-examinations or physical exams. However, in some cases they can be felt at touch, especially if they are larger.\n\nBreasts are usually lumpy or nodular as a result of the hormonal changes that women go through during their menstrual cycle. However, new breast lumps should always be referred to a specialist.\n\nFluid leaking from a cyst, as may happen due to puncture or vigorous compression during mammography, or due to seatbelt injury in the course of an automobile accident, may trigger an aseptic inflammation in the surrounding breast tissue.\n\nThe cystic nature of a breast lump can be confirmed by ultrasound examination, aspiration (removal of contents with needle), or mammogram. Ultrasound can also show if the cyst contains solid nodules, a sign that the lesion may be pre-cancerous or cancerous. Examination by a cytopathologist of the fluid aspirated from the cyst may also help with this diagnosis. In particular, it should be sent to a laboratory for testing if it is blood-stained.\n\nCommonly, cysts are detected with the help of mammograms. However, the medical history and physical examination also play an important role in establishing an accurate diagnosis. During these tests, the doctor will try to find out as much information as possible regarding the symptoms the patient has experienced, their intensity and duration and the physical examination is performed regularly to check for other abnormalities that may exist within the breast.\n\nAs mentioned above, cysts are often undetectable at touch. Therefore, a mammogram can provide valuable and clear images of the breast tissue. Generally, if there is any abnormality within the breast tissue, it will be shown on the mammogram. There are two types of mammograms available. One of them is primarily used in screening, and are ordered for patients who do not show any symptoms and these are called screening mammograms. Diagnostic mammograms are used on patients who developed certain symptoms of a breast condition or in patients whose screening mammograms showed abnormalities.\n\nPatients suspected of breast cysts will normally be given a diagnosing mammogram, although they are not suspected of cancer. This type of mammogram provides the doctor with the possibility of performing a breast ultrasound at the same time and this is the reason why they are often preferred over the screening mammograms. Breast ultrasound is considered the best option when diagnosing breast cysts because it is 95 to 100% accurate, it provides a clear image on the cyst's appearance (simple or complex) and it may also distinguish between solid lumps and fluid-filled cysts, which a mammogram cannot do. Breast ultrasounds are performed with the help of a handheld medical instrument which is placed on the skin, after a special type of fluid has been applied on it. The instruments picks up the echo resulted from the sound waves it sends to the breast. These echoes are transmitted to a computer which translates it into a picture.\n\nBreast cysts may remain stable for many years or may resolve spontaneously. Most simple cysts are benign and do not require any treatment or further diagnostic workup. Some complex cysts may require further diagnostic measures such as fine needle aspiration or biopsy to exclude breast cancer however the overwhelming majority is of benign nature. Aspiration both diagnoses and removes cysts at the same time. That is, cysts will usually resolve on their own after the fluid is drained. Otherwise, if the lump is not a cyst, the fluid aspirated may contain blood or there may not be fluid at all. Whereas in the first case, the fluid is sent to the laboratory for further examination, the latter circumstance is a sign that the breast lump is solid. This type of tumor needs to be biopsied in order to determine whether it is malignant or benign.\nThe development of breast cysts may be prevented to some degree, according to the majority of the specialists. The recommended measures one is able to take in order to avoid the formation of the cysts include practicing good health and avoiding certain medications, eating a balanced diet, taking necessary vitamins and supplements, getting exercise, and avoiding stress.\n\nAlthough caffeine consumption does not have a scientifically proved connection with the process of cyst development, many women claim that their symptoms are relieved if avoiding it. Some doctors recommend reducing the amount of caffeine in one's diet in terms of both beverages and foods (such as chocolate). Also reducing salt intake may help in alleviating the symptoms of breast cysts, although, again, there is no scientific linkage between these two. Excessive sugar consumption as well as undetected food allergies, such as to gluten or lactose, may also contribute to cyst development.\n\nBreast cysts do not require treatment unless a cyst is large and painful or otherwise uncomfortable. In that case, draining the fluid from a breast cyst can ease symptoms.\n\nTypical treatment involves a Needle aspiration biopsy. Aspirated cysts often recur (come back); definitive treatment may require surgery.\n\nDraining the fluid and then waiting for the cyst to resolve is the main treatment applied in these cases. Moreover, if cysts are aspirated and the fluid looks normal, they do not require any other medical attention apart from following-up to make sure they have completely disappeared. Hormone therapy, by the means of oral contraceptives, is sometimes prescribed to reduce their recurrence and to regulate the menstrual cycle of the patient (which is likely to cause them in the first place). Danazol may also be prescribed to treat this condition and it is usually considered in patients on whom the non-medical treatment fails and the symptoms are intense.\n\nSurgical removal of a breast cyst is necessary only in a few unusual circumstances. If an uncomfortable breast cyst recurs month after month, or if a breast cyst contains blood-tinged fluid and displays other worrisome signs, surgery may be considered.\n\nIt is estimated that 7% of women in the western world develop palpable breast cysts.\n\nThere is preliminary evidence that women with breast cysts may be at an increased risk of breast cancer, especially at younger ages.\n\nIn males, the occurrence of breast cysts is rare and may (but need not) be an indication of malignancy.\n\nSome women experience breast pain, especially when engaging in vigorous physical activity. A properly fitted sports bra, which compresses or encapsulates breast tissue, is designed to reduce pain caused by exercise.\n"}
{"id": "52356256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356256", "title": "Cannabis in Turkey", "text": "Cannabis in Turkey\n\nCannabis in Turkey is illegal for recreational use, but allowed for limited medical and scientific purposes. The Turkish term for cannabis is kenevir.\n\nIn 2016, legislation was approved to allow the use of sublingual cannabinoid medications (such as Sativex) for use with a doctor's prescription. Use of whole-plant cannabis remains illegal.\n\nThe cultivation of marijuana is legal in 19 provinces in Turkey for medicinal and scientific purposes. However, with permission this can also be conducted in other provinces too. \n\nConsuming any drug (personal use or not) is illegal and requires juridical process. Possessing, purchasing or receiving any illegal drug, including Cannabis, is punishable by 1–2 years in prison; there is also the option of treatment and/or probation for up to three years. If users refuse treatment or do not comply with probation requirements, the courts can decide on sentencing.\n\nSale and supply is punishable by a prison term of 5–10 years, and production or trafficking by a minimum term of 10 years.\n"}
{"id": "48845229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48845229", "title": "Chest pain in children", "text": "Chest pain in children\n\nChest pain in children is the pain felt in the chest by infants, children and adolescents. In most cases the pain is not associated with the heart. It is primarily identified by the observance or report of pain by the infant, child or adolescent by reports of distress by parents or caregivers. Chest pain is not uncommon in children. Many children are seen in ambulatory clinics, emergency departments and hospitals and cardiology clinics. Most often there is a benign cause for the pain for most children. Some have conditions that are serious and possibly life-threatening. Chest pain in pediatric patients requires careful physical examination and a detailed history that would indicate the possibility of a serious cause. Studies of pediatric chest pain are sparse. It has been difficult to create evidence-based guidelines for evaluation.\n\nChest pain in children is usually evaluated in cardiology clinics and in emergency departments. It can be distressing for parents and children. Pediatric chest pain differs from chest pain in adults because it is most often unrelated to the heart. The causes of pediatric chest pain vary according to the organ or tissue in the child. that generates the pain. Generally, muscular skeletal pain, which includes costochondritis, is the reason for the emergency department visit. Pain that is felt in the chest but is due to muscular skeletal inflammation or an unknown cause and accounts for 7% and 69% visits. Muscular skeletal pain is described and defined differently as a diagnosis of exclusion or is documented as being associated with idiopathic causes. Asthma and other respiratory symptoms are the second most common presentation. Respiratory associated causes compose 13% to 24% of pediatric chest pain symptoms. Gastrointestinal and psychogenic symptoms reported by parents and patients occur less than 10% of the time. Cardiac causes of pediatric chest pain are found infrequently and are not identified more than 5% of the time. Unknown causes, were estimated to account for 20% to 61% of the final diagnosis given. Patients who receive a diagnosis of cardiac disease are more apt to have acute pain. This pain often awakes them from sleep or presents with fever or abnormal observations found during the physical examination. Trauma can also be a cause for chest pain and has been found to be associated with the pain in 5% of the patients.\n\nChildren can present with chest pain can have a sudden onset related to vigorous physical activity and coughing. These symptoms seem to be closely associated with asthma. Infection with \"Haemophilus influenzae\" can cause chest pain.\n\nSince most causes of pediatric and adolescent chest pain are not considered life-threatening, parents and their children are often reassured that in the majority of cases, the cause of the pain can be determined. If the child or adolescent appears to have some dehydration, and intravenous line along with administration of saline is done. The clinician may or may not decide to perform diagnostic testing . This is especially true if the child or adolescent has symptoms of chronic pain. If an obvious cause of the chest pain is not readily apparent, testing may begin with an x-rayand an electrocardiogram . This helps the clinician to determine whether or not the cause of pain is related to pulmonary or cardiac causes.\n\nA possible preliminary diagnosis may be able to be made based upon consistent symptoms. Some of these are:\n\nPreliminary \"red flags\" are identified that are more likely to suggest chest pain associated with heart. These are:\n\nIf the diagnosis is unclear, the clinician may order additional testing. These tests may be an electrocardiogram, stress test, pulmonary function test, drug screen and ultrasound.\n\n\n\nChest pain is relatively common in children and adolescents. Unlike adults, the cause is rarely cardiac.\nApproximately 0.3% to 0.6% of emergency department department visits by pediatric patients are for chest pain. The emergency department visits are consistent throughout the seasons and times of year. The median age pediatric patients that complain of pain is from 12 to 13 years old both males and females display the symptoms and signs at approximately the same ratio. Those that do complain of the chest pain usually present with acute pain that they have experienced for less than one day. This is not universal though. A small study in Turkey evaluated patients and found that 59% complained of pain that they had had for more than one month in duration. Estimates of 13% to 24% of patients seen in the emergency department are found to have a pulmonary association with their pain.\n\nChildren who have chest pain that is related to asthma and exercise stress can be treated with bronchodilator use. If there is obviously distress and difficulty breathing, treatment to provide the support of airway and breathing is provided. In addition, treatment can include measures to support circulation.\n\nPart of effective treatment includes obtaining a detailed medical history .\n"}
{"id": "19027000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19027000", "title": "Clinical clerkship", "text": "Clinical clerkship\n\nClinical clerkships encompass a period of medical education in which students – medical, nursing, dental, or otherwise – practice medicine under the supervision of a health practitioner.\n\nIn medical education, a clerkship, or rotation, refers to the practice of medicine by medical students (M.D., D.O., D.P.M) during their final year(s) of study. Traditionally, the first half of medical school trains students in the classroom setting, and the second half takes place in a teaching hospital. Clerkships give students experiences in all parts of the hospital setting, including the operating room, emergency department, and various other departments that allow learning by viewing and doing.\n\nDuring this training, students are required to rotate through different medical specialties and treat patients under the supervision of physicians. Students elicit patient histories, complete physical examinations, write progress notes, and assist in surgeries and medical procedures. The work hours are that of a full-time job, generally similar to that of residents. Students may also be required to work on weekends and to be on call.\nFor medical students, clerkships occur after the basic science curriculum, and are supervised by medical specialists at a teaching hospital or medical school. Typically, certain clerkships are required to obtain the Doctor of Medicine degree or the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree in the United States (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics), while others are elective (e.g., dermatology, pathology, and neurology).\n\nThe intent of the clinical clerkship is to teach the medical student the fundamentals of clinical examination, evaluation, and care provision, and to enable the student to select the course of further study. During the clinical clerkship, the medical student will interact with real patients much as a physician does, but their evaluation and recommendations will be reviewed and approved by more senior physicians.\n\nIn the United States, medical school typically lasts four years. Medical students spend the third and fourth years rotating through a combination of required clerkship and electives. Most medical schools require rotations in internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics, psychiatry, obstetrics and gynecology, family medicine, radiology, and neurology. Some schools additionally require emergency medicine and intensive-care medicine. Furthermore, a common graduation requirement is to complete a sub-internship in a specialty, where the medical student acts as an intern.\n"}
{"id": "56677459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56677459", "title": "Dude food", "text": "Dude food\n\nDude food is a recent food trend largely consisting of heavy, meaty dishes that are thought to appeal to men or express masculinity. Dishes such as hamburgers, hotdogs, or barbeque ribs may be considered dude food, though dude food versions of these dishes often distinguish themselves with gourmet ingredients or exaggerated use of amenities like whiskey, barbecue sauce, bacon, or cheese.\n\nIt is thought that the dude food trend originated in the early 2000s, most likely originating in the southern regions of the United States.\nThe common theory is that the trend arose from its affinity with the food truck and street food movements, defined by their offerings of “comfort and good quality food” made easily accessible. The trend expanded as a social media phenomenon, and its associated term was added to the Collins dictionary in 2016. Dude food has inspired a growing number of academic and non-academic literature with titles such as \"Dudefood: A Guy's Guide to Cooking Kick-Ass Food\" and \"Dude Food: Recipes for the Modern Guy\". Although the trend has spread widely within public consciousness, journalists, bloggers, and academics struggle to coin a precise, widely accepted definition for \"dude food.\" The various proposed definitions share elements such as gender stereotypes, the predominance of heavy meat dishes, and the influence of \"feminine\" types of food.\n\nIncreased awareness of the implications of high cholesterol diets and recent findings suggesting men are twice as likely as women to suffer severe heart problems (heart attacks and coronary heart disease) appears to have broadened dude food offerings so as to encompass light, vegetable-based options, to the detriment of their formerly characteristic meat options.\n\nThe trend is said to have originated in North America, moreover, following its success the trend has geographically expanded into other countries, reaching during the following years Europe, Oceania and also at last Asia. Indeed, the trend seems to have arrived, following its North American origins, at first also in the United Kingdom, where it has allegedly influenced a number of “dude food” inspired restaurants, that have therefore mixed their British national dishes with “dude food” characteristics.\n\nThe same seems to be happening also in Australia, combined with the unsatisfaction with fast food and the demand of higher-quality, but not necessarily per se healthy food.\n\nLastly, dude food is considered to be one of the next biggest growing trend for the year 2018, to be arriving also in Japan, influencing the usual healthy, rice and fish based cuisine and combining it with the more heavy and greasy dude food methodology.\n\nDude food advertising and representation tends to follow the traditional gender binary and can be analyzed from a visual perspective, that is by taking into account how gender identity is represented in the food field. Thus, food is considered to be part of those products which are “gendered in a practice of normative sexual dualism reinforced and maintained within (…) cultural institutions of marketing communication and market segmentation”. According to this, advertising plays a significant role in defining this dualism concerning gender identity since its language represents a tool contributing to the creation and reflection of social norms.\n\nAccording to Katherine Parkin, the gender binary in advertising took shape in 50s, following the theories of Ernest Dichter. She believed that “by convincing Americans of a food’s sex and its resultant gendered identity, as well as its sensuality, advertisers could suggest their foods to meet consumers’ need to fulfill their gender roles” and “Dichter believed that many people categorized the sex of foods. However, his own subscription to a gendered taxonomy of food is evident in his assessment of the findings”.\n\nMoreover, it might be important to notice that not only the food product itself but also the related packaging and advertisement are employed as tools to transmit an idea of how men and women should be, stressing again the cultural and social awareness raised by studies on dude food.\n\nAn example of advertising in England is the Ginsters advertise of a beef pasty accompanied by the hashtag #FeedTheMan, in which there is a man that tells a joke in front of his girlfriend’s bosses; but he is talking about Ginsters, thus she has nothing to worry about, because it’s a type of food that makes everyone agree.\n\nIn accordance with Lynsey Atkin, advertisement agencies and brands have honed in on a crisis of masculinity in our society and “in times of insecurity, brands can repurpose themselves as champions of the everyman, facilitators of the macho clean, however small. In other words, promising gender-traditional-prowess, like being able to kick a football in a straight line, could be the media-constructed equivalent of helping you grow a beard. Some stereotypes, like male dominance in social situations, are invoked as a nostalgia (a dream of the football-playing and beard-growing of days gone by)\".\n\nGenerally, it is hard to find an advertisement of men eating chocolate, otherwise in Canada there is the advertise of chocolate bar Mr. Big produced by Cadbury, where the snack is oversexualized and it is associated to virility, in fact the slogan is “When you're this big they call you Mister”.\n\nFurthermore, specific events and moving tours were organised in Canada and promoted in order to provide dude food dishes and a certain atmosphere; they were born specifically to satisfy men's tastes, whereas women were welcomed but only as supporters of their men.\n\nAccording to the feminist scholar Judith Butler, gender is “…an identity tenuously constituted in time (…) instituted through a stylized repetition of acts”. In fact, “...performing food labor is intertwined with performing gender”. In particular, several studies focus on how certain foods, drinks, or ways of eating and drinking are interpreted as “masculine”; a crucial example of this attributed masculinity to certain types of food is represented by dude food. Significantly, scholars have been suggesting that this masculinisation of food practices might allegedly be the expression of masculine privilege which “manifests around food and cooking in a myriad of ways”. Dude food has been extremely crucial as it has raise the interest of the scholarly world as to why the Western cultural and social system defines gender by looking at people's food choices.\nMeat is considered to be one of the most important ingredients of “manly” food, since meat conveys meaning of “...sexuality and virility…”. Thus, if masculinity is related to meat, a mostly vegetarian diet is inevitably interpreted as feminine. Not only the consumption of meat, but also the various ways in which it is cooked are associated with a specific idea of masculinity. For instance, barbecued meat and its consumption have always been seen as a rather masculine activity. There is an increase growing literature demonstrating how types of unhealthy food are interpreted to be masculine due to the presence, in our belief system, of cultural stereotypes according to which women tend to eat more healthily than men.\n\nThis differentiation could also be attributed to the packaging of food products. Strong stereotypes are deeply embedded also in people’s buying preferences. The cultural basis of these stereotypes regarding food choices and gender perception is the desire from part of our social system to protect and maintain its hegemonic masculine norms. The interest toward dude food is leading people to re-think about the reasons behind food choices and why it should be \"...enjoyed. With friends and family- male or female\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1988622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988622", "title": "Female sexual arousal disorder", "text": "Female sexual arousal disorder\n\nFemale sexual arousal disorder (FSAD) is a disorder characterized by a persistent or recurrent inability to attain sexual arousal or to maintain arousal until the completion of a sexual activity. The diagnosis can also refer to an inadequate lubrication-swelling response normally present during arousal and sexual activity. The condition should be distinguished from a general loss of interest in sexual activity and from other sexual dysfunctions, such as the orgasmic disorder (anorgasmia) and hypoactive sexual desire disorder, which is characterized as a lack or absence of sexual fantasies and desire for sexual activity for some period of time.\n\nAlthough female sexual dysfunction is currently a contested diagnostic, it has become more common in recent years to use testosterone-based drugs off-label to treat FSAD. While drug companies are technically not allowed to market these drugs for off-label uses, sharing the information with doctors at CME conferences has proved to be an effective way to navigate around the FDA approval process.\n\nA number of studies have explored the factors that contribute to female sexual arousal disorder and female orgasmic disorder. These factors include both psychological and physical factors. Psychologically, possible causes of the disorder include the impact of childhood and adolescence experiences and current events – both within the individual and within the current relationship.\n\nThere has been little investigation of the impact of individual factors on female sexual dysfunction. Such factors include stress, levels of fatigue, gender identity, health, and other individual attributes and experiences, such as dysfunctional sexual beliefs that may affect sexual desire or response. Over exposure to pornography-style media is also thought to lead to poor body image, self-consciousness and lowered self-esteem. An individual's sexual activity is disrupted by overwhelming emotional distress resulting in inability to attain sexual pleasure. Sexual dysfunction can also occur secondary to major psychiatric disorders, including depression.\n\nA substantial body of research has explored the role of interpersonal factors in female sexual dysfunction, particularly in relation to orgasmic response. These studies have largely focused on the impact of the quality of the relationship on the sexual functioning of the partners. Some studies have evaluated the role of specific relationship variables, whereas others have examined overall relationship satisfaction. Some studies have explored events, while others have focused on attitudes as an empirical measure of relationship functioning. Subject populations have varied from distressed couples to sexually dysfunctional clients to those in satisfied relationships.\n\nIn addition to past experience and personal psychology, social context plays a factor:\n\nEstimates of the percentage of female sexual dysfunction attributable to physical factors have ranged from 30% to 80%. The disorders most likely to result in sexual dysfunction are those that lead to problems in circulatory or neurological function. These factors have been more extensively explored in men than in women. Physical etiologies such as neurological and cardiovascular illnesses have been directly implicated in both premature and retarded ejaculation as well as in erectile disorder, but the contribution of physiological factors to female sexual dysfunction is not so clear. However, recent literature does suggest that there may be an impairment in the arousal phase among diabetic women. Given that diabetic women show a significant variability in their response to this medical disorder, it is not surprising that the disease’s influence on arousal is also highly variable. In fact, the lack of a clear association between medical disorders and sexual functioning suggests that psychological factors play a significant part in the impact of these disorders on sexual functioning.\n\nKenneth Maravilla, Professor of Radiology and Neurological Surgery and Director of MRI Research Laboratory at the University of Washington, Seattle, presented research findings based on neuro-imaging of women's sexual function. In a small pilot study of four women with female sexual arousal disorder, Maravilla reported there was less brain activation seen in this group, including very little activation in the amygdala. These women also showed increased activation in the temporal areas, in contrast to women without sexual difficulties, who showed deactivation in similar areas. This may suggest an increased level of inhibition with an arousal stimulus in this small group of women with FSAD.\n\nSeveral types of medications, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), can cause sexual dysfunction and in the case of SSRI and SNRI, these dysfunctions may become permanent after the end of the treatment.\n\nKaplan proposed that sexual dysfunction was based on intrapsychic, interpersonal, and behavioural levels. Four factors were identified that could have a role in the development of sexual dysfunction: 1) lack of correct information regarding sexual and social interaction, 2) unconscious guilt or anxiety regarding sex, 3) performance anxiety, and 4) failure to communicate between the partners.\n\nThe DSM-5 lists the diagnostic criteria as including a minimum of three of the following:\n\n\nThe DSM-IV (American Psychiatric Association 1994) diagnostic criteria were:\n\n\nMarita P. McCabe noted:Difficulties arise with this definition in terms of what constitutes an adequate lubrication-swelling response. There is no \"gold standard\" regarding the length of time it should take to become aroused or the level of arousal that should be achieved. These responses may vary from one woman to another and are dependent on a range of factors, which include her general mood when sexual stimulation commences and her partner’s skill in stimulating her. There may also be differences in physiological and subjective levels of arousal, with some women reporting no feelings of sexual arousal despite evidence of vaginal vasocongestion and others reporting arousal in the absence of such evidence. The expectations and past experiences of clinicians and clients may also lead them to classify the same symptoms as female sexual arousal disorder in one woman but not in another.\n\nThere are several subtypes of female sexual arousal disorders. They may indicate onset: lifelong (since birth) or acquired. They may be based on context: they may occur in all situations (generalized) or be situation-specific (situational). For example, the disorder may occur with a spouse but not with a different partner.\n\nThe length of time the disorder has existed and the extent to which it is partner- or situation-specific, as opposed to occurring in all situations, may be the result of different causative factors and may influence the treatment for the disorder. It may be due to psychological factors or a combination of factors.\n\nThe FDA has approved one medication for the treatment of disorders of female libido, flibanserin.\n\nOne problem with the current definition in the DSM-IV is that subjective arousal is not included. There is often no correlation between women's subjective and physiological arousal. With this in mind, recently, FSAD has been divided up into sub-types: \nThe third sub-type is the most common in clinical settings \n\nOne of the largest criticisms for female sexual arousal disorder is whether it is an actual disorder or an idea put forth by pharmaceutical companies in order to step into a potentially billion dollar industry; see \"Orgasm Inc.\" There is also concern that this ignores those women who have experienced a significant loss of libido following hysterectomy.\n\nThe only mention of female sexual arousal disorder in a peer-reviewed medical journal indicated that 43% of women suffer from FSD, however the survey turned out to not be a rigorous study. Of the handful of questions, if any respondent answered yes at any time, they were classified as having FSD. Here are the questions asked that respondents could only choose a response of Yes or No:\n\nFurthermore, the author Edward O. Laumann turned out to have financial ties to Pfizer, creator of Viagra.\n\nAnother criticism, for example, is that \"the meaningful benefits of experimental drugs for women's sexual difficulties are questionable, and the financial conflicts of interest of experts who endorse the notion of a highly prevalent medical condition are extensive.\"\n\nProfessor of bioethics and sociology Jennifer R. Fishman argues that the categorization of female sexual dysfunction as a treatable disease has only been made possible through the input of academic clinical researchers. Through ethnographic research, she believes she has shown how academic clinical researchers have provided the scientific research needed by pharmaceutical companies to bio-medicalize female sexual dysfunction and consequently identify a market of consumers for it. She questions the professional ethics of this exchange network between researchers and pharmaceutical companies, as the clinical research trials are funded by pharmaceutical companies and researchers are given considerable financial rewards for their work. She argues that the conferences where definition of the disease and diagnostic criteria are defined and research is presented to clinicians are also ethically ambiguous, as they are also funded by pharmaceutical companies.\n\nIt is also worth noting that female sexual arousal disorder is rarely a solitary diagnosis. Due to its high rates of comorbidity with hypoactive sexual desire disorder, a new disorder is being proposed for the DSM-5: Sexual Interest/Arousal Disorder. The diagnostic criterion \"persistent or recurrent\" symptoms is also problematic in that it is vague and could lead to too much reliance on clinical judgment.\n\nHeather Hartely of Portland State University, Oregon is critical of the shift from female sexual dysfunction being framed as an arousal problem to a desire problem. In her article, \"The 'Pinking' of Viagra Culture\", she states that the change from female sexual arousal disorder to hypoactive sexual desire disorder is indicative of \"disease mongering\" tactics by the drug industry through an effort to match up a drug to some subcomponent of the DSM classification.\n\nAdditionally, Leonore Tiefer of NYU School of Medicine voiced concerns that the success of Viagra, in combination with feminist rhetoric, were being used as a means of fast-tracking public acceptance of pharmaceutical treatment of female sexual arousal disorder. The justification behind this, she says, is that \"the branding of Viagra has succeeded so thoroughly in rationalizing the idea of sexual correction and enhancement through pills that it seems inevitable and \"only fair\" that such a product be made available for women,\" giving a dangerous appeal to \"nonapproved drugs though off-label prescribing\". \n\nNatural variation could be overlooked because there are no specific duration or severity criteria for diagnosis. Therefore, the duration criterion of symptoms lasting at least 6 months and the severity criterion of symptoms during 75% or more of sexual encounters have been proposed.\n\nDiagnosis based on insufficient vaginal lubrication/swelling is problematic because women’s genital arousal may be an \"automatic response\" that they are unaware of. Furthermore, there is little evidence that women with sexual arousal disorder have a poor lubrication/swelling response.\n\n"}
{"id": "2953473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2953473", "title": "Food group", "text": "Food group\n\nA food group is a collection of foods that share similar nutritional properties or biological classifications. Nutrition guides typically divide foods into food groups and recommend daily servings of each group for a healthy diet. In the United States for instance, USDA has described food as being in from 4 to 11 different groups.\n\n\nThe number of \"common\" food groups varies depending on who is defining them. Canada's Food Guide, which has been in continual publication since 1942 and is the second most requested government document (after the income tax form) in Canada, recognizes only four official food groups, listing the remainder of foods as \"another\". Some of these \"others\" include:\n\n"}
{"id": "33806603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33806603", "title": "Freaks, Geeks, and Asperger Syndrome", "text": "Freaks, Geeks, and Asperger Syndrome\n\nFreaks, Geeks, and Asperger Syndrome: A User Guide to Adolescence is a non-fiction book about how it is like having Asperger Syndrome. The book was written by the then 13-year-old Luke Jackson who has Asperger Syndrome himself. Luke wrote the book because he thought that there were not enough useful things on the internet about the subject.\n\nThe point of the book is to explain that it is fine to be different. Luke goes through the problems that people with Asperger Syndrome face such as trouble reading facial expressions and body language. Luke Jackson lives in a family with three brothers and three sisters and his siblings have related difficulties as well.\n\nDavid Worling of the Canadian Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry said that the book is filled with valuable information and is useful to have in a clinical library.\n\nThe book received first place in Times Educational Supplement awards in 2003 for special educational needs books.\n\n"}
{"id": "1014424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014424", "title": "Functional food", "text": "Functional food\n\nA functional food is a food given an additional function (often one related to health-promotion or disease prevention) by adding new ingredients or more of existing ingredients. The term may also apply to traits purposely bred into existing edible plants, such as purple or gold potatoes having enriched anthocyanin or carotenoid contents, respectively. Functional foods may be \"designed to have physiological benefits and/or reduce the risk of chronic disease beyond basic nutritional functions, and may be similar in appearance to conventional food and consumed as part of a regular diet\".\n\nThe term was first used in Japan in the 1980s where there is a government approval process for functional foods called Foods for Specified Health Use (FOSHU).\n\nThe functional food industry, consisting of food, beverage and supplement sectors, is one of the several areas of the food industry that is experiencing fast growth in recent years. It is estimated that the global market of functional food industry will reach 176.7 billion in 2013 with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 7.4%. Specifically, the functional food sector will experience 6.9% CAGR, the supplement sector will rise by 3.8% and the functional beverage sector will be the fastest growing segment with 10.8% CAGR. This kind of growth is fueled not only by industrial innovation and development of new products that satisfy the demand of health conscious consumers, but also by health claims covering a wide range of health issues. Yet, consumer skepticism persists mainly because benefits associated with consuming the products may be difficult to detect. Strict examination of some of the functional food claims may discourage some companies from launching their products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39915354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39915354", "title": "GuLF Study", "text": "GuLF Study\n\nThe GuLF Study, or Gulf Long-term Follow-up Study, is a five-year research project examining the human-health consequences of the \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill in April 2010. The spill followed an explosion on a drilling rig leased by BP, the British oil company, and led to the release of over four million barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, 48 miles off the coast of Louisiana in the United States.\n\nThe study was set up in June that year by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. It is being conducted by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), part of the National Institutes of Health, and aims to recruit 55,000 of the 150,000 workers who volunteered or were employed to help clean up the spill. It is led by Dale Sandler, head of the NIEHS's epidemiology branch.\n\nThe \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill was the world's largest accidental marine oil spill. It began on 20 April 2010 after an explosion on the \"Deepwater Horizon\", a drilling rig leased by BP to drill an exploratory well. Between then and 15 July, when the well was capped, over four million barrels of oil (around 170 million US gallons, or 643 million litres) spilled from a depth of 5,000 ft (1,500 m) into the Gulf of Mexico, 48 miles off the coast of Louisiana.\n\nAccording to the GuLF Study, the duration of the spill, the area affected, the proximity to local communities, and the number of people involved in the clean-up, were all greater than in any other spill that has been studied. Around 180 miles of shoreline were \"heavily to moderately oiled,\" according to a US government report. Additional safety concerns were raised by the use of roughly nine million litres of oil dispersants, Corexit 9527 and 9500, during the clean-up operation. It was the largest known application of such dispersants to date, and the first use of dispersants at that depth.\n\nFollowing the spill, there were anecdotal reports of health problems among workers involved in the clean-up, who complained of a variety of issues, including flu-like symptoms, rashes and stress. The Institute of Medicine held a workshop in June 2010, \"Assessing the Human Health Effects of the Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill,\" and recommended that the United States government set up a study. The Department of Health and Human Services agreed that month to set it up. The study was launched in September 2010, and in February 2011 the first mailing requests were sent out to potential participants.\n\nThe study is expected to cost $34 million over five years, and has been designed so that it can continue for up to 20 years. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) contributed $10 million to fund the initial phases, and BP contributed an additional $10 million to NIH for this and other projects. The BP funding was made through its Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative (GRI), a ten-year program to study the effects of the spill.\n\nThe areas affected are Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi. The study aims to track 55,000 workers for at least five years. The workers will have been involved in a variety of tasks, such as oil burning, skimming, booming, as well as cleaning up animals, equipment and the shoreline, resulting in different levels of exposure to contaminants. The study has also recruited, as a control group, workers who completed the clean-up safety training, but who in the end did not take part in the clean-up itself.\n\nThe researchers will examine the workers' exposure to volatile organic compounds (VOCs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and dispersants, using monitoring data gathered during the clean-up. Around 20,000 of the workers will be visited at home, and blood, hair, urine and toenail samples will be collected to look for biomarkers, such as DNA adducts and chromosome damage; lung-function tests will be carried out, and dust samples will be collected from their homes.\n\nResearchers will look for respiratory conditions, cancers, hematological outcomes, and neuro-behavioral or mental-health problems, and for any job losses, and financial or domestic disruption, the spill may have caused. Questionnaires ask workers about their health at the time of the spill, exposure to oil or dispersant, and lifestyle factors that, as the study said, \"might confound associations between exposures and health.\" By January 2013 researchers had conducted 32,000 telephone interviews, including 800 interviews in Spanish and over 1,000 in Vietnamese, and 9,967 home visits.\n\nThe difficulties facing the study are considerable. Sara Reardon wrote in \"Science\" in March 2011 that scientists were concerned that they did not know what to look for. The delay between the workers' exposure in 2010 and the start of the study – the first interviews of participants took place in February 2011 – meant that short-term physical markers that could be directly related to the spill, such as rashes, had gone. There is also little information about the pre-spill baseline health of the workers, whose work involves regular exposure to environmental hazards. According to epidemiologist Maureen Lichtveld, the main health effects are likely to be psychosocial, such as depression and increased alcohol use resulting from job losses. Reardon wrote that, given how economically depressed the community is, it will be difficult to demonstrate what is causing the stress-related illnesses the workers report.\n\nThere has been concern that the study will collect health information without addressing the medical needs of the workers, who may have no health insurance. The study's lead investigator, Dale Sandler, said in 2011 that participants who are found by the researchers to need medical care will be referred to local health-care providers who offer free or reduced-cost treatment. Local people say that finding such medical care is not easy, and that the workers' health should be prioritized over data collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "27150031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27150031", "title": "Handbook of Religion and Health", "text": "Handbook of Religion and Health\n\nHandbook of Religion and Health is a scholarly book about the relation of spirituality and religion with physical and mental health. Written by Harold G. Koenig, Michael E. McCullough, and David B. Larson, the book was published in the United States in 2001. The book has been discussed in magazines and reviewed in professional journals.\n\nA second revised edition of the \"Handbook\" was published in 2012.\n\nThe first edition of the \"Handbook of Religion and Health\" (published in 2001) is divided into 8 major parts that contain a total of 34 chapters. The book also contains an 11-page introduction, a 2-page conclusion, 95 pages of references, and a 24-page index. One reviewer described the book as \"surprisingly readable\" (p. 791).\n\nThe parts and chapters are shown in the adjacent table. Most chapters focus on reviewing and discussing the relation between religion and particular health outcomes, such as cardiovascular disease or depression. In two chapters, the authors present more encompassing theoretical models that they suggest may explain the generally favorable associations observed between religion and health:\n\nThe authors note that their model for effects on physical health \n\ndoes not consider 'supernatural'... explanations... since such mechanisms (if they exist at all) act outside the laws of science as we know them today. We focus here on known psychological, social, behavioral, and physiological mechanisms by which religion may exert effects on physical health. (p. 389)\n\nThe book's 34th and final chapter contains a 77-page table with systematic information about all 20th-century studies of religion and health. Topics are arranged in the order of the other chapters, and provide technical information such as the type of population, the number of subjects, the existence of a control or a comparison group, and a 1-to-10 rating or \"grade\" of the study's quality and rigor. The \"reader thus gains a snapshot view of each study, can easily identify those with a variable of interest, and can reference back to the text to see what the authors have to say about it\" (p. 139).\n\nReviews and discussions have appeared in \n\"The New Yorker\",\n\"Freethought Today\", \n\"First Things\",\n\"Journal of the American Medical Association\",\n\"The Gerontologist\",\nthe \"Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health\",\n\"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\",\n\"The International Journal for the Psychology of Religion\",\n\"Journal of Hospice & Palliative Nursing\",\n\"Journal of Sex Education & Therapy\",\n\"Anglican Theological Review\",\nthe \"American Journal of Psychiatry,\nand elsewhere.\n\nThe \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" wrote that the authors of the \"Handbook of Religion and Health\" are\n\nwell-regarded researchers in this maturing field... Their analysis of more than 1200\nstudies and 400 reviews is meticulous and balanced... This is an unparalleled resource not only for physicians with an interest in the relationship between religion and health but perhaps even more for those who doubt its significance. All physicians should consider the possibility that something so meaningful to a large number of patients might also be good for their health. (pp. 465-6)\n\n\"JAMA\" also stated that \"Studies are cited to illustrate the complexity and limitations of available knowledge,\" that \"The authors offer theoretical models for how religion might directly or indirectly influence both mental and physical health,\" and that \"The authors provide an outline for a religious history that can serve as part of a clinical assessment. Ways to aid patients to use their religious beliefs within the health care system are suggested\" (all p. 465).\n\nIn the \"Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health\", Leonard Duhl wrote that\n\nthe authors have done a very thorough overview of all we know at this time. Clearly spirituality and religion affect growth and development, the creation of pathology and the treatment of disease. They have not got the total answer. However, they have laid a ground work for understanding a complex set of issues. They review those studies that exist, critically interpret their findings, and offer new ways of \"asking the question.\" They hypothesise the possible mechanisms, and suggest new directions.\nIn \"The Gerontologist\", David O. Moberg described the book as \"mind-boggling, comprehensive, and evenhanded...This comprehensive reference work deserves an honored place in every medical, religious, gerontological, professional, and scientific research library, even though it has one major weakness, the lack of an index of names.\" (pp. 699–700;)\n\nIn \"The New Yorker\", Jerome Groopman wrote that the \"Handbook\"'s conclusions \n\nare not entirely encouraging: they suggest that although the relationship between health and spirituality is clearly worthy of serious study, much of the research done in the field to date has been shoddy. Koenig and his collaborators also go to great lengths to educate the reader about negative effects of belief and orthodoxies... such as the fear that disease is punishment for sin, and that assistance is preferably derived through miracles rather than through medicine. (p. 166)\n\"Freethought Today\", a magazine published by the Freedom From Religion Foundation, wrote that the \"Handbook\" \"reports that there are at least 1200 studies on religion and health - with the vast majority showing positive associations\" and asked\nAre there really this many studies? What are these studies like? Well, here's one of them that qualifies by Koenig's standards... The authors reported differences between Jewish and non-Jewish Cleveland attorneys in the incidence of some index of cardiovascular disease. That's it... So that's how numbers like 1200 arise, because studies like this get included. (pp. 10-11)\nIn the \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\", Thomas G. Plante wrote that\n\nA growing number of well-conceived and methodologically rigorous studies have been conducted to examine if religious beliefs and behaviors might be related to health benefits or health risks... No book, however, has <nowiki>[until now]</nowiki> thoroughly reviewed all the empirical studies and reviews in this area... The authors maintain scholarly neutrality and let the research evidence speak for itself... The book is surprisingly readable for a 700+ page scholarly review... The authors should be commended on an extraordinary job on this soon to be classic text.(pp. 790-1)\nIn the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\", Paul Genova wrote that \"This \"Handbook\" is really a reference volume... Case presentations are rare. Occasional sensitive discussions on subjects such as the adjustment to terminal cancer... are embedded in exhaustive literature reviews.\" But\n\nthe biggest problem, in my view, with the line of reasoning represented by this book <nowiki>[is that]</nowiki> \"Health\" is the ego's agenda. It should not be conflated with concepts such as doing God's will or taking one's proper place in a divine pattern... A cultural product of present-day American behavioral science, this book renders unto the Caesar of controlled studies... it fits the current pattern of assimilation and loses the Spirit of the message. (pp. 1619-20)\nIn the \"Anglican Theological Review\", Daniel Grossoehme, \"a priest serving as a pediatric chaplain\" (p. 800), wrote that \n\nnow more than ever there is a need for religion and science (and specifically health science) to be in conversation with one another... This volume is a significant contribution to the conversation and one which can be of great value in a variety of church settings... The information contained in this volume provides the background necessary to carry on an education program that is both theologically and intellectually (scientifically) sound... Guidance for previously unthought-of pastoral issues comes out from the studies. (p. 798)\nIn \"The International Journal for the Psychology of Religion\", James W. Jones noted that \"Like most medical texts, it is organized by syndromes\" (p. 95), and that \"the book’s clear organization\" makes \"selectively <nowiki>[reading]</nowiki> the chapters of interest... easy to do\" p. 96). He also stated that \n\nI have used this book successfully as part of the assigned readings in undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate courses on religion and health... [it] is accessible to educated nonprofessionals as well as professionals in religion and medicine... It is not, however, an introduction to the controversy surrounding the field. The authors do not explicitly argue for the religion–health relation; they are content to let the weight of evidence as they present it speak for itself... For a more critical discussion, the reader must look to other sources. But anyone planning a course or introducing a colleague to the general field of religion and health should make this book available. (pp. 95-6)\n\"First Things\" wrote that \"The authors write in the desiccated tone of the social scientist who divorces his thought from the human encounter with the transcendent... Nowhere in this tome does one find a statement (let alone any enthusiastic support for) the authentic place of religion in our being\" (p. 56).\n\nThe \"Journal of Hospice & Palliative Nursing\" wrote that the authors \"take on a Herculean task,\" and \"every time I randomly opened to a page, I found something unanticipated and intriguing\" (pp. 138, 139).\n\nThe \"Journal of Sex Education & Therapy\" wrote that\n\nThis is a dip-and-dig book... I spent a week just leafing through to savor the gems... One day I read about depression... another delinquency, then cardiovascular disease... I spent a weekend on research methods and measurement tools and another weekend on priorities for future research. Yum. If you are looking for a doctoral project or an advisor, here is the place for you to dip and-dig. (p. 365)\nThis article describes the first edition of the \"Handbook of Religion and Health\", published in 2001, and written by Koenig, McCullough, and Larson. A second revised edition, written by Koenig, King, and Carson, was published in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21247535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21247535", "title": "Health care in Spain", "text": "Health care in Spain\n\nSpain employs a universal health care system. The system is essentially \"free\" except for small, often symbolic co-payments in some products and services.\n\nAccording to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, total health spending accounted for 9.4% of GDP in Spain in 2011, slightly above the OECD average of 9.3%. The Spanish health care system is considered one of the best in the world, in 7th position in the ranking calculated by the World Health Organization. Spain is ranked 1st in the world in organ transplants. The public sector is the main source of health funding. In Spain, 73% of health spending was funded by public sources in 2011, very close to the average of 72% in OECD countries. Since 2010, real term spending on healthcare has declined in Spain.\n\nIn an emergency, people can go straight to a hospital A&E. For any other type of hospital treatment a referral from a doctor is required. There are public and private hospitals, with the former providing free treatment. As some hospitals offer both private and state healthcare services, the presentation of a social security card, an EHIC, or proof of private insurance is advisable.\nAs hospital doctors do not issue prescriptions, after discharge, patients take the hospital medical report to a pharmacy for prescriptions to be filled.\n\nIn Spain patients have the right to read their own patient records, but there is evidence that this is not well publicised.\n\nIn Spain, provision of health care services is decentralised, and thus the responsibility of several autonomous communities. In 1998, an analysis of the effects of greater autonomy on legislative performance and policy outcomes for health care observed a positive effect on the former, but no effect on the latter. The analysis noted that a possible explanation for this disconnect was that autonomous communities had only experienced greater autonomy in the area of health care for a short time, and positive effects on policy outcomes could take longer to manifest. In 2009, an analysis of data collected by the Spanish National Health Survey in 2001 showed that autonomous communities with decentralised health services tended to have better equity performance. In 2014, an analysis of data collected by the Spanish Centre of Sociological Research between 1996 and 2009 found that for twenty variables of public satisfaction with health care services, decentralisation not only had no effect on 2 measures of primary or specialised care and 1 of hospital care, but actually performed worse on 3 measures of primary or specialised care and 1 measure of hospital care. No statistically significant trend was observed for twelve of the twenty measures of satisfaction. The authors of the analysis stressed that the data was limited due to the subjective nature of patient reports, and the possible inability of some to properly evaluate performance of health care services.\n\nIn a sample of 13 developed countries Spain was second in its population weighted usage of medication in 14 classes in both 2009 and 2013. The drugs studied were selected on the basis that, in the previous 10 years the conditions treated had: a high incidence, prevalence and/or mortality; caused significant long-term morbidity; incurred high levels of expenditure or had significant developments in prevention or treatment. The study noted considerable difficulties in cross border comparison of medication use. Ceuta had the highest proportion of practising doctors per head of any region in Europe - 871 per 100,000 in 2015.\n\nThe Euro health consumer index rated Spain 19th of 35 European countries in 2015, remarking that there was somewhat of an over-reliance on seeking private care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28620682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28620682", "title": "Honey hole", "text": "Honey hole\n\nA honey hole (or honeyhole) is slang for a location that yields a valued commodity or resource. A local landmark or road near a honey hole may have \"Honey Hole\" in its name or as a nickname for a muddy spot.\n\nIn fishing, a honey hole could be a particular spot in a body of water (or used as a general term for the entire body of water) where conditions are ideal for catching fish. Such a spot could be the leading edge of a hump, a depression, or a bend in the channel.\n\nIn deer hunting, a honey hole is a place where the buck will be safe from the hunter and where the hunter rarely thinks of looking for a buck; such a place could be an \"acorn tree surrounded by a briar thicket or a tree on the edge of a patch of cane near a river or creek bank\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6248865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6248865", "title": "International Commission on Occupational Health", "text": "International Commission on Occupational Health\n\nThe International Commission on Occupational Health (ICOH), is an international non-governmental professional society, founded in Milan during the Expo 1906 as the Permanent Commission on Occupational Health.\n\nICOH aims at fostering the scientific progress, knowledge and development of occupational health and safety in all its aspects. Today, ICOH is the world's leading international scientific society in the field of occupational health with a membership of 2,000 professionals from 93 countries and is recognised by the United Nations as a non-governmental organisation (NGO) with close working relationships with ILO, WHO, UNEP and ISSA.\n\nThe most visible activities of ICOH are the triennial World Congresses on Occupational Health, which are usually attended by some 3,000 participants. The 2000 Congress was held in Singapore, the 2003 Congress in Iguassu Falls (Brazil), the 2006 Centennial Congress in Milan, (Italy), the 2009 Congress in Cape Town (South Africa), ICOH 2012 Congress in Cancun (Mexico), ICOH 2015 Congress in Seoul (Rep. of Korea), while ICOH 2018 was held in Dublin (Ireland). The next ICOH Congress will be held in Melbourne (Australia) in 2021, while ICOH 2024 will be held in Marrakesh (Morocco).\n\nAt the ICOH 2006 General Assembly, the President highlighted the overriding importance of permanent training and education of experts in order to face the rapidly changing world of work, the need to develop occupational health services throughout the world (including the development and dissemination of Basic Occupational Health Services - BOHS), the importance of creating BOHS guidelines, tools, training, and pilot projects and the intention of making a global survey on the OHS situation in ICOH member countries. Cooperation with World Health Organization, International Labour Organization and other NGO partners is among the priorities of the current ICOH Strategy (ICOH Centennial Declaration).\n\nPresidents: M. De Cristoforis 1906 - 1915, L. Devoto 1915 - 1936, D. Glibert 1936 - 1940, T. Stowell 1948 - 1951, P. Mazell 1951 - 1954, S. Forssman 1954 - 1969, L. Noro 1969 - 1975, E. Vigliani 1975 - 1981, R. Murray 1981 - 1987, S. Hernberg 1987 - 1993, J. F. Caillard 1993 - 2000, B. Knave 2000 - 2003, J. Rantanen 2003 - 2009, K. Kogi 2009–2015, J. Takala 2015–present.\n\nSecretaries General: L. Carozzi 1906 - 1957, E. Vigliani 1957 - 1975, R. Murray 1975 - 1981, L. Parmeggiani 1981 - 1988, J. Jeyaratnam 1989 - 2000, K. S. Chia 2000 - 2003, S. Iavicoli 2003–present.\n\nOfficers\n\nBoard Members\nMaureen Dollard (Australia)\nFrida Marina Fischer (Brazil)\nMats Hagberg (Sweden)\nMartin Hogan (Ireland)\nSeichi Horie (Japan)\nSunil Kumar Joshi (Nepal)\nEun-A Kim (Rep. of Korea)\nStavroula Leka (United Kingdom)\nOlivier Lo (Singapore)\nRosa Maria Orriols Ramos (Spain)\nChristophe Paris (France)\nShyam Pingle (India)\nKari Reijula (Finland)\nPaul Schulte (USA)\nMaria Luisa Tupia Gonzales (Peru)\nFrancesco S. Violante (Italy)\n\nICOH has 37 Scientific Committees. They cover a broad scope of challenges and problems in work life, including traditional risks of occupational injuries and diseases, and the risks of “new work life”. The Scientific Committees focus specifically on the areas of competence and promote and carry out research in their respective fields. Most of these committees have regular symposia, scientific monographs and review the abstracts submitted to the International Congresses.\n\n\nICOH relations with International Organizations (WHO, ILO) have received critiques, notably on the issue of asbestos: \"Part of the explanation for this bland acceptance of the asbestos cancer epidemic is that the WHO and the ILO have allowed organizations such as the International Commission on occupational Health (ICOH) and other asbestos industry consultants and experts to manipulate them and to distort the scientific evidence. The WHO and the ILO were lulled into inaction by conflicting scientific reports of the epidemic.\"\n\nActually, ICOH has set among its main priorities the Asbestos Ban, taking a very clear position in favour of the global ban of asbestos. Through its official bodies and individual members ICOH took actions at all levels of activity, global, national and workplace levels:\n\nAt the national level the expert input of ICOH members to the decisions concerning the ban of asbestos can be found for example in Finland, Sweden, Germany, Japan and Norway.\nThe ICOH members also were most instrumental in production of the \"Asbestos, asbestosis, and cancer: the Helsinki criteria for diagnosis and attribution\"- a document that has been taken in use in everyday practices in diagnosing, recognition and compensation of asbestos related diseases and has also been used in courts in some countries in defence of victims of the diseased persons. ICOH members also train the experts in occupational medicine and safety by using the research and criteria documents as a support for education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37131361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37131361", "title": "International Day of the Girl Child", "text": "International Day of the Girl Child\n\nInternational Day of the Girl Child is an international observance day declared by the United Nations; it is also called the Day of Girls and the International Day of the Girl. October 11, 2012, was the first Day of the Girl Child. The observation supports more opportunity for girls and increases awareness of gender inequality faced by girls worldwide based upon their gender. This inequality includes areas such as access to education, nutrition, legal rights, medical care, and protection from discrimination, violence against women and forced child marriage. The celebration of the day also \"reflects the successful emergence of girls and young women as a distinct cohort in development policy, programming, campaigning and research.\"\n\nInternational Day of the Girl increases awareness of issues faced by girls around the world. Many global development plans do not include or consider girls, and their issues become \"invisible.\" More than 62 million girls around the world have no access to education. Worldwide and collectively, girls ages 5 to 14 spend more than 160 million hours more on household chores than boys of the same age do. Globally, one in four girls are married before age 18. On October 11, 2016, Emma Watson, who is also the United Nations Women's Goodwill Ambassador, urged countries and families worldwide to end child marriage. Many girls around the world are vulnerable to acts of sexual violence and the perpetrators often go unpunished.\n\nThe Day of Girls helps raise awareness not only of the issues that girls face, but also what is likely to happen when those problems are solved. For example, educating girls helps reduce the rate of child marriage, disease and helps strengthen the economy by helping girls have access to higher paying jobs.\n\nThe International Day of Girls initiative began as a project of Plan International, a non-governmental organization that operates worldwide. The idea for an international day of observance and celebration grew out of Plan International's Because I Am a Girl campaign, which raises awareness of the importance of nurturing girls globally and in developing countries in particular. Plan International representatives in Canada approached the Canadian federal government to seek to the coalition of supporters raised awareness of the initiative internationally. Eventually, Plan International urged the United Nations to become involved.\n\nInternational Day of Girls was formally proposed as a resolution by Canada in the United Nations General Assembly. Rona Ambrose, Canada's Minister for the Status of Women, sponsored the resolution; a delegation of women and girls made presentations in support of the initiative at the 55th United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. On December 19, 2011, the United Nations General Assembly voted to pass a resolution adopting October 11, 2012 as the inaugural International Day of Girls. The resolution states that the Day of Girls recognizes \n\nEach year's Day of Girls has a theme; the first was \"ending child marriage\", the second, in 2013, was \"innovating for girls' education\", the third, in 2014, was \"Empowering Adolescent Girls: Ending the Cycle of Violence,\" and the fourth, in 2015, was \"The Power of Adolescent Girl: Vision for 2030.\" The 2016 theme was \"Girls' Progress = Goals' Progress: What Counts for Girls,\" the 2017 theme was \"EmPOWER Girls: Before, during and after crises,\" and the theme for 2018 was “With Her: A Skilled Girl Force.”\n\nBy 2013, worldwide, there were around 2,043 events for Day of Girls.\n\nVarious events to promote the Day of Girls are planned in several countries. Some are sponsored by the United Nations, such as a concert in Mumbai, India. Non-governmental organizations, such as Girl Guides Australia, also support events and activities for International Day of Girls. Local organizations have developed their own events, such as Girls and Football South Africa, who, in 2012, distributed T-shirts on International Day of Girls to commemorate the 1956 Black Sash march by 20,000 women. An all-day event was held on London's South Bank in 2013, which included theatre and film performances produced by Body Gossip, an organisation that campaigns on body image and mental health issues. For the first Day of Girls, a virtual event was developed by Sage Girl and iTwixie to bring thousands of individuals and organizations together online.\n\nIn 2016, London held a Women of the World (WOW) festival where 250 London school-aged girls were paired with women mentors. Also in 2016, President of the United States, Barack Obama, issued a proclamation supporting an end to gender disparity.\n\nSocial media uses the hashtag #dayofthegirl to track events and news about the day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30652609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30652609", "title": "Iranian National Formulary", "text": "Iranian National Formulary\n\nThe Iranian National Formulary (INF) has more than 2,300 molecules registered at the Iran's Ministry of Health, including various strengths and dosage forms. The standards regarding pharmaceutical products in Iran are determined and modified by the \"Pharmacopeia Council\".\n\nIran has adopted a full generic-based National Drug Policy (NDP), with local production of essential drugs and vaccines as one of the main goals. Formalities for approval of a new molecule can take between 1 month and 12 months (maximum), as follows: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19046893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19046893", "title": "Irrigation in Colombia", "text": "Irrigation in Colombia\n\nIrrigation in Colombia has been an integral part of Colombia's agricultural and rural development in the 20th Century. Public investment in irrigation has been especially prominent in the first half of the Century. During the second half, largely driven by fiscal shortages and a common inability to raise sufficient revenues from collection of water charges, the Colombian government adopted a program to devolve irrigation management responsibility to water users associations. Irrigation management transfer has occurred only partially in Colombia, as the government has maintained strong managerial tasks in certain irrigation districts.\n\nColombia has approximately 900,000 hectares of irrigated agriculture, mostly located in the warm center, Magdalena, Cauca and Tolima Valleys, and the northeast near Venezuela’s border and along the Caribbean coast. Approximately, 90% of the agricultural land is irrigated through gravity irrigation systems. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), 62% of the functional irrigable land in Colombia has been developed and managed by the private sector. Only 38% was developed by the public sector. FAO estimates that the private sector invested on average US$19 million annually during the period 1991–1997. Colombia has a considerable potential to expand land under irrigation due to high rainfall and fertile volcanic soil creating conditions favorable for a wide range of crops.\n\nEfficiency of irrigation systems is in general very low in the country contributing to soil salinization and water erosion. In addition, agricultural runoff including chemicals from fertilizers and pesticides are taking an increasing toll on Colombian ecosystems.\nAccording to the first national communication to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Colombia is highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, especially highland Andean ecosystems. Colombian Government is in the process of implementing an Integrated National Adaptation Project focused on defining and implementing policy options to meet the anticipated impacts of climate change.\n\nThe total irrigated area in Colombia was around 50000 ha until 1950. From 1960 through 1990, private irrigated area expanded at an average annual rate of 15000 ha. In 1990, a total of 3.8 million ha were cultivated in Colombia, 750,000 ha, or approximately 10%, of which was equipped with irrigation or drainage facilities. According to the World Development Indicators, in 2007, 900,000 ha, or 24% of the total agricultural land, was actually irrigated. The private sector financed approximately two thirds of the irrigation schemes. The remaining third corresponds to public investment. Colombia has a considerable potential to expand land under irrigation.\n\nAt the beginning of the centuray, irrigation development was largely driven by the Colombian government. Public investment on irrigation infrastructure started in 1936 and continued throughout the 1940s and 1950s, when the Colombian government focused in agriculture development in the valleys of Alto Chicamocha, Firavitoba y Samaca in Northern Colombia, and built the irrigation systems of Ramada, Coello, Saldaña and Roldanillo-Union-Toro (RUT).\n\nWater users associations (WUA), such as Coello and Saldaña in Tolima district, become very active and lobbied the government for infrastructure management transfer. In the 1960s, the government increased public investment in irrigation sector building 14 irrigation districts together with drainage and flood control infrastructure through the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA). In the 1970s with the creation of the Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Development (HIMAT) the government aimed at increasing water users’ capacity to eventually take over management of irrigation systems. HIMAT would be in charge of management until water users’ association reach adequate capacity. Coello and Saldaña districts were transferred to water users in 1976 under a constitutional principle referred to as \"delegation of administration\". The \"delegation of administration\" did not include transfer of ownership for scheme assets nor full WUA control over budgets, operation and maintenance (O&M) plans and personnel. HIMAT retained a strong supervisory role in administering budgets and O&M vis a vis WUA.\n\nIn 1993, the government passed a Land Development Law No. 41 in 1993 and its associated enabling Decree Nos. 1278 and 2135 aimed at updating current agreement with water users associations from “delegation of administration” to “concessional contracts”. Under the new agreement water users associations would have full control over irrigation district finances, O&M procedures and personnel but continued not having ownership over irrigation infrastructure.\n\nIn 1994, HIMAT was transferred to a newly created institution, the National Institute for Land Development (INAT) aimed at reinvigorate management transfer. INAT reached agreements with WUA on a case by case basis. At the beginning of\n1990, only Coello and Saldaña (with a total irrigable area of 39,603 ha) had been transferred. By the end of 1996, 17 of the 23 public irrigation districts in the country had been transferred to WUAs or 115,695 ha of a total of 241,077 ha of irrigated area previously under public management. The original plan was to enable total transfer by 1997. However, after experiencing difficulties transferring Maria Baja and other districts the government discontinued implementation aiming at better addressing some of the challenges the remaining associations had. Some of those challenges include facilities in disrepair, high costs of irrigation, lower productivity, lower profitability, social unrest, poverty and inability to collect adequate irrigation fees from farmers.\n\nAccording to the Food and Agriculture Organization, Colombia receive an average of 3,000mm rainfall annually, which represents a total volume of 3,425 km. Up to 61% of the total volume turns into an average flow and total internal renewable water resources of 2,113 km. According to the Institute of Hidrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies, ecosystems need up to 40% of the total water resources available in Colombia to continue providing full environmental services. Most of the irrigated areas are located in the warm center, Magdalena and Cauca Valleys, and the northeast near Venezuela’s border and along the Caribbean coast. Cauca and Tolima Valleys have 40% of irrigated land. Approximately, 90% of the agricultural land is irrigated through gravity irrigation systems but the Cauca Valley and Sabana in Bogota with improved on farm irrigation systems such as dripping and aspersion.\n\nColombian Main watersheds\n\"Source\": FAO (2000)\n\nAccording to Marin Ramirez (1991), as quoted in the National Report on Water Resources Management in Colombia, the predominance of gravity irrigation systems are due to both the sense of water being an abundant and cheap resource and the high upfront costs for improved irrigation techniques. Hence, efficiency of irrigation systems is in general very low in the country contributing to soil salinization and water erosion. In addition, agricultural runoff including chemicals from fertilizers and pesticides are taking an increasing toll on Colombian ecosystems.\n\nEcosystems in Colombia affected by pesticides\n\"Source\": Health Ministry and Environment Ministry (1996)\n\nAccording to the first national communication to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Colombia is highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Highland Andean ecosystems, especially moorlands, are expected to be seriously affected by increase in temperature which has recorded a net increase of 0.2-0.3 degrees Celsius per decade during the period 1961–1990 – according to the Meteorological, Hydrological and Environmental Studies Institute—and is expected to continue to do so by the Meteorological Research Institute of Japan. Hydrological temperature changes would result in a loss of biodiversity and the services attached to those such as water supply, basin regulation and hydropower.\n\nThe Colombian Constitution of 1991 grants to the Colombian Government the responsibility of guaranteeing natural resources sustainable use, including water resources. In 1993, the government passed a Land Development Law No. 41 in 1993 and its associated enabling Decree Nos. 1278 and 2135 aimed at reducing public intervention in the irrigation sector and spurring private investment. The Law incorporates users’ participation in design, building, and posterior operation and maintenance (O&M) by establishing a water fee which includes a fraction of the total costs. The law also establishes the National Council for Land Development (CONSUAT).\n\nThe Law 99 of 1993 established the current institutional framework in Colombia; in particular it created the Environment Ministry the National Environmental System (See Water resources management in Colombia for further information). The Law creates a new and complex institutional framework where different administrations and institutions coexist.\n\nThe Environment Ministry is in charge of formulating water resources management policies and regulations including pollution standards and charge fees. The Agriculture Ministry is in charge of developing sustainable land management, agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The National Council for Land Management (CONSUAT) is the Agriculture Ministry’s principal advisor and INAT – together with other public and private entities – is its executive branch. The National Fund for Land Management is an administrative unit in charge of designing and implementing irrigation, drainage and flood control infrastructure. Until 1992, irrigation districts management were subscribed to HIMAT – now renamed INAT – and are currently in the process of being transferred to water user organizations (See History of the irrigation sector above).\n\nFinally, the institutional framework includes a research institution, IDEAM which coordinates the Colombian Environmental Information System and is responsible for meteorology, hydrology, and related environmental studies.\n\nThere are a number of legal and commercial issues that will affect how these projects move forward and are structured. Whilst some of the legal issues are not confined to irrigation PPPs they can take on a new dimension and complexity when applied to irrigation: Land ownership; water extraction; public sector counterpart. These will be key issues in a PPP as the private provider will want to ensure a steady revenue stream.\n\nThere are also the usual legal considerations that need to be checked when developing PPPs in any sector, such as legal restrictions on the type of PPP arrangement that can be entered into, relevant procurement rules for entering into PPPs, existence of restrictions on foreign investment, taxation and potential for tax holidays and the ability to assign rights such as security and step in rights to lenders.\n\nThe Coello irrigation district is located about 150 kilometers from the capital, Bogota on the left bank of the Magdalena River in the Department of Tolima. The only source of water for the project is the Rio Coello, a tributary of the Magdalena River. About 99Z of the lands of the Coello project belong to private owners. About 56% of the farms in the district are smaller than 10 ha, occupying a total of only 142 of the land area. Another 262 of the farms occupy more than 20 ha\neach or a total of 712 of the land.\n\nThe management of the Coello district was transferred to the Water Users' Association (known as USOCOELLO) when HIHAT was created in 1976. The general conditions of transfer were defined in an agreement between HIMAT and USOCOELLO. USOCOELLO's regulations defining the rights and obligations of the association members, and the functions of the General Assembly, Board, and General Manager are set out in a document issued on October 31, 1986. Any owner, farmer or tenant farmer in the area can be a member of USOCOELLO and submit a request for registration. The district is one of the oldest in Colombia and members of the Association participate actively in the annual meetings.\n\nUnder Colombian law all beneficiaries of public works must pay a land appreciation surcharge proportionate to the value of the government's investment. Beneficiaries of land improvement districts are also liable for the cost of operations and maintenance (O&M). Operations and maintenance costs are recovered through (i) a fixed water charge (per hectare, per year) and (ii) a variable water charge based on the volume of water delivered for irrigation. The law does not state what proportion of these two charges is to meet O&M costs. Water rates are fixed once a year by HIHAT's Board of Directors before the first planting season starts, at the time of budget preparation. In setting the fixed and volumetric water rates, HIMAT determines the users’ contribution to O&M costs, the government pays the difference. Fixed charges are paid in advance, regardless of land use. Their payment is a pre-requisite for receiving the irrigation service. The volumetric water charges are paid at the end of each season. The collection rate is generally high. Volumetric payments depend on how much water is actually delivered to the farmers. Rainfall varies markedly, which affects demand for supplementary irrigation water. Total water charges covered only 34.9% O&M costs in 1980 and 28.5% in 1987. Only a few districts, including RUT, approach self-sufficiency for operations and maintenance.\n\nAccording to FAO, 463,000 ha of the functional irrigable land in Colombia (or 62%) has been developed and managed by the private sector. Only 38% was developed by the public sector. FAO estimates that the private sector invested an average of US$19 million annually during the period 1991–1997. In 1994, investment cost of private irrigation development for basic irrigation projects providing water for rice and cereal varied between US$750 to 1,000 per hectare. Private investment cost for irrigation schemes featuring pumping lifts varied between US$1,200 to 1,750 per hectare. Finally, private investment costs for irrigations schemes including wells, sprinkles or localized irrigation varied between US$2,000 to 2,700 per hectare.\n\nDuring the 1980s, The World Bank invested a total of US$234 million in several small-scale irrigation developments on the foothills of the Andes, in the savannah country of Northern Colombia and the Magdalena watershed in Northwest Colombia.\n\nParticularly in the area of Climate Change, the World Bank is working closely with Colombian Government in an Integrated National Adaptation Project to strengthen Colombian institutions, particularly IDEAM, to produce climate information in support of adaptation to climate change. The project also includes the definition and implementation of a specific pilot adaptation program supporting the maintenance of environmental services in the Las Hermosas Massif including the Amoya watershed protection.\n\nThe Inter- American Development Bank worked together with the Colombian government in the 1990s in the creation of a National Irrigation Program and an Irrigation and Drainage Program to support the government's strategy for land improvement and to seek private-sector involvement in efforts to modernize Colombia's agriculture sector.\n\nResearchers Carlos Garces-Restrepo and Doublas L. Vermillion studied the impact of management transfer to water users’ organizations in selected irrigation systems, namely RUT, Rio Recio, Samaca, San Rafael y Maria La Baja. The findings of the study “support the hypothesis that management transfer leads to efforts by water users associations to improve management efficiency, such as reducing the number of management staff and taking measures to cut costs.” Management transfer also leads to a significant reduction of government expenditures in irrigation management. However, “transfer has not had substantial impacts on the performance of operations and maintenance or in the agricultural and economic productivity of irrigated land or water, neither improving negative performance nor causing detriment where performance was positive.”\n\nThe researchers also notice that the concept of “management transfer” varies among countries. In the case of Colombia, government maintained considerable authority over O&M, budgets and human resources. Ownership of infrastructure was never transferred to water users associations nor have water rights been granted. Hence, “it is necessary to test the hypothesis that a more integrated and comprehensive devolution policy would lead to more positive impacts on performance.”\n\n"}
{"id": "49219362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49219362", "title": "James Hodsdon", "text": "James Hodsdon\n\nSir James William Beeman Hodsdon KBE PRCSE (1858-1928) was an eminent Scottish surgeon who served as president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh 1914-1917.\n\nHodsdon was born and raised in Bermuda, the son of Adelaide Horne Ingham (d.1916) and Francis Eve Hodsdon. His later education was at Sherborne School in England. He studied Medicine at Queen's College, Belfast and the University of Edinburgh, graduating MD around 1880. He did further postgraduate studies in London, Vienna and Paris.\n\nFor most of his adult life he lived and practiced in Edinburgh, working as Consultant Surgeon at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and living latterly at 6 Chester Street in Edinburgh’s West End. From 1886 to 1909 he also taught in the Edinburgh extramural school of medicine, lecturing in surgery in the Edinburgh College of Medicine for Women. He also lectured in Clinical Surgery at the University of Edinburgh. In 1914 he succeeded Francis Mitchell Caird as President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. In 1917 he stepped down and acted simply as Vice President until 1919. This period, during the First World War, also saw him concurrently serving as a Major in the Royal Army Medical Corps, based in Edinburgh at the 2nd Scottish General Hospital at Craigleith (now Edinburgh’s Western General Hospital).\n\nIn later life he acted as Examiner in Surgery for the University of Edinburgh, Durham University and Queen's College, Belfast. He was knighted in 1920.\n\nHe died in a sleeping car of a train travelling from London to Edinburgh on 28 May 1928. He is buried in Dean Cemetery in western Edinburgh with his wife and mother, on the south path of the northern Victorian Extension, towards the east end, backing onto the original cemetery.\n\nHe married Joan Turnbull Raffin (d.1947) in 1889.\n\nHis portrait by Walter Stoneman is held by the National Portrait Gallery, London.\n"}
{"id": "6240659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6240659", "title": "Jolan Chang", "text": "Jolan Chang\n\nJolan Chang (9 December 1917 - 25 April 2002) was a Chinese-Canadian sexologist and Taoist philosopher who wrote the luminary classics on Eastern Sexuality \"The Tao of Love and Sex\" and \"The Tao of the Loving Couple\". He was born in Hangzhou as the son of an army general. After the revolution he lived for a number of years in Canada, but later he moved to Sweden. He died in Stockholm.\n\nBritish author Lawrence Durrell wrote about Chang in his 1980 book \"A smile in the Mind's Eye.\"\n\n\"The Tao of Love and Sex\" (with foreword and postscript by Joseph Needham) interprets ancient Taoist sexual teachings into a modern model of sexuality. Beginning with a background of Tao and yin/yang, the book then goes into the following subjects: the role of women in sex, the importance of sexuality to health, ejaculation control, thrusting methods, descriptions of various sex positions, advantages of female superior positions, erotic kissing and the Tao, overcoming impotence, the importance of female satisfaction, longevity in relation to sexual health, benefits of age differences between sexual partners and breathing exercises. The book demonstrated that the principles of ancient Taoist texts are applicable to stimulating and improving sexual health today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53428483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53428483", "title": "L. L. Thurstone Psychometric Laboratory", "text": "L. L. Thurstone Psychometric Laboratory\n\nL. L. Thurstone Psychometric Laboratory is a psychometrics and quantitative psychology laboratory housed within the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. It was founded by Louis Leon Thurstone in 1952.\n\nThe lab was located at Nash hall from 1952 to 1967 and moved to its present location at Davie Hall in 1967.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885045", "title": "List of R-phrases", "text": "List of R-phrases\n\nR-phrases (short for risk phrases) are defined in Annex III of European Union Directive 67/548/EEC: \"Nature of special risks attributed to dangerous substances and preparations\". The list was consolidated and republished in Directive 2001/59/EC, where translations into other EU languages may be found.\n\nThese risk phrases are used internationally, not just in Europe, and there is an ongoing effort towards complete international harmonization using the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) which now generally replaces these risk phrases.\n\n\"Note:\" Missing R-numbers indicate phrases that have been deleted or replaced by other phrases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55961060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55961060", "title": "List of big-game hunters", "text": "List of big-game hunters\n\nThis is a list of famous big-game hunters who gained fame largely or solely because of their big-game hunting exploits. The members of this list either hunted big game professionally for profit, the science of their day or by virtue of their wealth or position for sport consistently as their primary pastime for many years, and includes brief biographical details particularly concerning the game hunted, the hunting methods employed and the hunting weapons used by those listed.\n\nFrank Maurice \"Bunny\" Allen (1906–2002) was an English born professional safari guide in Kenya. Born in Buckinghamshire, as a young boy Allen learnt to poach game, gaining the nickname “Bunny” for his skill at snaring rabbits. In 1927 Allen followed his older brothers to Kenya. Managing a farm Allen would take guests of the owner on shoots, bringing him to the attention of Bror von Blixen-Finecke and Denys Finch Hatton. Allen soon became one of Finch Hatton’s guns on shoots, including the Prince of Wales’ 1928 safari. Rising to Captain in the 6th King's African Rifles during World War II, after the war Allen started his own safari business and by the 1950s was considered the best and the most expensive safari operator in Kenya. Allen was also regularly employed by film studios when filming in Africa, he is rumoured to have had love affairs with Grace Kelly and Ava Gardner. Allen predominantly used a .470 Nitro Express double rifle from John Rigby & Company to hunt big game.\n\nGeorge \"Yank\" Allen (1867–1924) was an American born professional lion hunter in Northern and Southern Rhodesia in the early 20th century. Allen was originally a Texan cowboy who reputedly left the United States as a result of a gunfight, first travelling to South America before arriving in Southern Africa in 1900. Renowned as an eccentric, Allen was quite contemptuous of lions, never referring to them as lions but instead calling them \"dawgs\" that did not roar but instead \"bawled\". Allen supplemented his income by hunting lion for the protection of cattle, charging farmers £7 per lion. In 1912 Allen became a professional lion hunter when the Southern Rhodesian cattle enterprise Liebig's hired him to protect their herd of 20,000 cattle, paying him £10 per lion plus transport and labour. Allen always hunted alone, not trusting his native help, and his favorite rifles for lion hunting were a .303 British service rifle and a .577 Black Powder Express double rifle. At the time of his death he was said to have killed around 300 lions, making him in the opinion of \"Pondoro\" Taylor one of the most successful lion hunters ever.\n\nMajor Gordon H. \"Andy\" Anderson (1878–1946) was a British soldier, elephant hunter and safari guide. Anderson commenced big game hunting in 1909 and elephant hunting in 1912, after meeting lifelong friend Jim Sutherland. Over the course of his life Anderson shot between 350 and 400 elephants, his favourite calibres for elephant hunting being the .577 Nitro Express, the .470 Nitro Express and the .318 Westley Richards. From 1921 Anderson also started acting as a professional safari guide, he most notable clients being the Duke and Duchess of York (later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth, The Queen Mother) in 1924 and (in partnership with Denys Finch Hatton) the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VIII) and his brother Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester in 1928. In 1934 Anderson was one of the founding members of the East African Professional Hunter's Association, in 1946 he wrote his autobiography, \"African Safaris\", which was published posthumously.\n\nWilliam Charles Baldwin (1826–1903) was an English born big game hunter in 19th century South Africa. Born in Leyland, Lancashire, from a young age Baldwin had an innate love of sports, dogs and horses, from the age of six he spent two days a week on a pony following the local harriers. After school Baldwin tried being a clerk in a shipping office and a farmer but in 1851 he packed his guns, rifles, saddles and seven deerhounds, purchased from Earl Fitzwilliam's gamekeeper at great expense, and sailed for South Africa to hunt elephant. Baldwin hunted from Zululand to the Zambezi and west to Lake Ngami, he claimed to be the second white man to set eyes on the Victoria Falls in 1860. Baldwin hunted mainly mounted on horseback with local hounds, the deerhounds having proved of little use. He returned to England in 1861, never returning to Africa, in 1863 he published a memoir \"African hunting: from Natal to the Zambezi\".\n\nFrederick Grant \"Deaf\" Banks (1875–1954) was variously a trader, government official, planter, elephant hunter and game ranger in Uganda. Born in London, but raised in Christchurch, New Zealand, Banks went to Africa in 1896 at the age of 21. Initially working with a coastal merchant, Banks moved into coffee planting and then set off on a prospecting trip to the Congo before he took to big game hunting. Banks did most of his hunting in Uganda Protectorate and the Lado Enclave, and is said to have killed over 1,000 elephants in his life, despite being almost completely deaf. Banks did most of his elephant hunting with a 6.5×54mm Mannlicher–Schönauer in open country and a .577 Nitro Express double rifle for cover.\n\nWalter Dalrymple Maitland \"Karamojo\" Bell (1880–1954) was a Scottish, soldier, fighter pilot, adventurer and elephant hunter. Arriving in Africa at the end of the 19th century, from 1902 Bell hunted elephant professionally in Kenya, Uganda, Abyssinia, Sudan, the Lado Enclave, French Ivory Coast, Liberia, French Congo and the Belgian Congo. During his hunting career, Bell shot 1,011 elephants and numerous other game including 25 lions, 16 leopards, 4 white rhinosaurus, 67 black rhinoceros and between 600 and 700 buffalo. Bell was an exceptional shot who preferred to hunt with smaller calibre bolt actioned rifles than large bore double rifles, around 800 of his elephants were killed with a .275 Rigby. Bell published two books on his time in Africa, \"The wanderings of an elephant hunter\" in 1923 and \"Karamojo safari\" in 1949, along with a number of articles. Bell is considered one of the most successful of Africa's professional elephant hunters.\n\nBaron Bror Fredrik \"Blix\" von Blixen-Finecke (1886–1946) was a Swedish baron, writer and professional safari guide. Blixen arrived in Kenya in 1913 with his new wife, his second cousin Karen von Blixen-Finecke. The marriage did not last, Blixen was a renowned philanderer, and after their separation in 1922 he was forced to flee from his creditors and hide in the bush. Close friend Sir Robert Coryndon intervened and referred some friends to Blixen to go on safari, and throughout the 1920s and 1930s he guided safaris throughout East Africa, notable clients included Edward, Prince of Wales and Ernest Hemingway. Blixen returned to Sweden in 1938, where he died eight years later at the age of 59. Blixen hunted extensively with a .600 Nitro Express double rifle by W.J. Jeffery & Co, in 1937 he published an autobiography in Swedish, \"African hunter\".\n\nPeter Hathaway Capstick (1940–1996) was an American big game hunter and author. Born in New Jersey, after a short career as a Wall Street stockbroker, Capstick headed to Latin America shortly before his thirtieth birthday to become a professional hunter. After several years he returned to New York where he arranged professionally guided hunting trips. Making his first trip to Africa in 1968, Capstick later became a professional hunter and game ranger in Zambia, Botswana, and Rhodesia. Publishing articles about hunting and adventure from the late 1960s, Capstick published his first book \"Death in the Long Grass\" in 1977, establishing his reputation as a writer.\n\nCigar was a 19th-century hottentot elephant hunter. Originally a jockey in Grahamstown, Cigar first hunted elephant for William Finaughty in 1869, keeping half of the ivory from elephants he shot. Finaughty stated Cigar was an excellent horseman and a fair shot, but his fear of elephants prevented him from having any success at that time. Frederick Selous first met Cigar in 1872 when Cigar agreed to take Selous elephant hunting; by then he had completely overcome his fear of elephants. At the time Cigar employed two native hunters and three porters; Selous described Cigar as a slightly built active man with wonderful endurance and a very good game shot who hunted with an old heavy 6 bore muzzleloader. Cigar originally hunted elephant from horseback with Finaughty, but when Selous met him he hunted them on foot due to tsetse flies.\n\nWilliam \"Old Bill\" Finaughty (1843–1917) was a 19th-century elephant hunter in Southern Africa. Born in Grahamstown, in 1864 at age 21 Finaughty travelled to Matabeleland to trade; chief Mzilikazi was friendly to his party and he witnessed a dance of 25,000 warriors. Shooting his first elephants on that trip, after making further expeditions in 1865 and 1866, Finaughty decided to hunt elephant professionally in 1867, which he did until 1876. Finaughty did all of his hunting from horseback, predominantly with a 4 bore muzzle loader, which fired a 4 oz bullet driven by \"a handful of powder\", whose recoil would leave his shoulder black and blue after a day’s elephant hunting and on a number of occasions knocked him out of the saddle. On one of his last hunts Finaughty used a \"newly-invented\" breech loading rifled 12 bore, and the memory of its recoil still made his eyes water 30 years later. It is believed Finaughty killed over 400 elephants in his life. He retired from elephant hunting when most elephants moved into tsetse fly country, not wanting to risk himself or his horses. In 1913, American Mr G.L. Harrison interviewed Finaughty, and upon his return to the United States he published Finaughty's recollections in \"The recollections of William Finaughty - elephant hunter 1864-1975\".\n\nThe Hon Denys George Finch-Hatton (1887–1931) was an English born sportsman and professional safari guide in Kenya in the 20th century. The third son of an Earl, after an education at Eton and Oxford University Finch Hatton arrived in Kenya in 1911 and initially lived a nomadic life which included trading safaris throughout Kenya and Somaliland during which he spent a lot of time hunting. In 1925 Finch Hatton became a professional safari guide, initially conducting a number of safaris with the veteran professional J.A. Hunter, Finch Hatton’s most notable guests were the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VIII) and his brother Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester in 1928. Finch Hatton hunted with a Mannlicher bolt actioned rifle in 6.5×54mm Mannlicher–Schönauer, a second hand Rigby bolt actioned rifle in .350 Rigby, a Lancaster double rifle that he had converted from .450 No 2 Nitro Express to .450 Nitro Express as it was easier to source ammunition and an Army & Navy 20 bore shotgun. Finch Hatton remains famous as the lover of Karen Blixen, their relationship being detailed in her memoir \"Out of Africa\", which she wrote under her nom de plume \"Isak Dinesen\".\n\nRoualeyn George \"The Lion Hunter\" Gordon-Cumming (1820–1866) was a Scottish traveler, sportsman, big game hunter and author. Growing up in the Scottish Highlands, from a young age Gordon-Cumming distinguished himself for his skill at deer stalking and salmon fishing. Gordon-Cumming briefly held commissions in the Honourable East India Company and later the Cape Mounted Rifles, resigning the latter after several months to take up hunting in Africa. Between 1843 and 1848 Gordon-Cumming hunted chiefly in Bechuanaland and the valley of the Limpopo River, mostly he did so on horseback with the assistance of hounds and always wearing a kilt, both when mounted and when on foot. Gordon-Cumming killed numerous game including lion, leopard, white rhinoceros, black rhinoceros, buffalo, giraffe, various antelope, hippopotamus, a rock python and 105 elephants, his favourite weapon was a 10 bore muzzle loaded 2 groove double rifle made by Dickson of Edinburgh until it burst causing him great lament. In 1850 Gordon-Cumming published an account of his time in Africa, \"Five years of a hunter's life in the far interior of South Africa\".\n\nQuentin Oliver Grogan (1883–1962) was an English born big game hunter in East Africa, and the younger brother of Ewart Grogan. Arriving in Kenya 1905 to assist with his brother’s businesses, Grogan instead took to hunting elephant. Hunting widely on Kenya, Uganda and the Belgian Congo, Grogan was one of four hunters to receive a license to hunt in the Lado Enclave, although he remained there to poach elephant once his license expired. In 1909 Grogan guided Theodore Roosevelt’s safari when it came to the Lado Enclave to hunt for white rhinosaurus. Grogan eventually settled on a farm at Turi in the White Highlands in 1915 and remained there until 1933 when he sold up and moved to South Africa. Grogan shot between 250 and 300 elephant in his life, he tried various rifles on elephant including a .256 Mannlicher, a .280 Ross and a .450 Nitro Express, finally settling on a .318 Westley Richards bolt actioned rifle and a .577 Nitro Express double rifle by Westley Richards.\n\nMajor Sir William Cornwallis Harris (1807–1848) was an English military engineer, artist, naturalist and hunter. Joining the Honourable East India Company in 1825, whilst in India he hunted tigers and blackbuck from elephant back and attempted to hunt lion in Gujarat. In 1836, following health issues, Harris was ordered to southern Africa to rehabilitate, where he went on a five-month safari from the Cape Colony to Matabeleland. During that trip Harris shot elephant, quagga, giraffe, hippopotamus, wildebeest, hartebeast, impala, rhinoceros, waterbuck and giraffe, the ivory from the elephant he shot funded the entire expedition. A naturalist, when not hunting Harris spent part of each day skillfully drawing animals and native Africans, he also collected two complete skulls of every quadruped found in southern Africa, along with a complete skeleton and skin of the sable antelope, which became known as the \"Harris buck\", these remains were later displayed in the British Museum. In 1838 Harris published an account of his time in southern Africa, \"The wild sports in southern Africa\" and in 1840 he published a folio volume of lithographs, \"Portraits of the game animals of southern Africa\".\n\nHenry Hartley (1815–1876) was an English born 19th century South African farmer and elephant hunter. Arriving in South Africa aged 4, he initially trained as a blacksmith but in the 1840s he took up farming near Magaliesberg in the Transvaal. From his farm, \"Thorndale\", Hartley would make annual treks to Matabeleland and further to Mashonaland to hunt elephant in the Zambezi Valley. Mzilikazi and Lobengula liked and trusted him, Mzilikazi called him the \"Keeper of the King's Elephants\". It is said that Hartley discovered gold in the Hartley Hills (later named in his honour) in 1866 near where he made his annual hunting camp, guiding Karl Mauch back the following year who confirmed the presence of gold, their announcing the discovery led to South Africa's gold rush. In 1869 Hartley escorted Thomas Baines to these goldfields. Hartley did all of his hunting from horseback, it is believed he shot between 1,000 and 1,200 elephant in his life, he eventually died from injuries caused by a rhinoceros collapsing on top of him after he had shot it.\n\nJohn Alexander \"J.A.\" Hunter (1887–1963) was a Scottish born Kenyan game control officer, big game hunter, safari guide, author and conservationist. Moving to Kenya in 1908, Hunter initially gained employment hunting lions for the Uganda Railway and over the next 50 years made a living as a professional hunter, it is believed Hunter killed over 1,400 elephant in his life. For much of his career Hunter was a Kenyan Government game control officer, between 1944 and 1946 he killed over 1,000 rhinoceros on behalf of the government in the Makueni District, the government wishing to clear the area of wildlife to resettle the Kamba people, Hunter later regretted the necessity of the task. An author of a number of books, his 1952 work \"Hunter\" was a Book of the Month Club selection the following year and was widely purchased by school libraries throughout the English speaking world in its abridged form \"African Hunter\". In later years Hunter became concerned about the fate of African game and advocated for the establishment of wildlife protection areas. Hunter hunted with a number of rifles, he arrived in Kenya with his father’s Purdey shotgun and a .275 Rigby rifle whilst later he used a .416 Rigby, a .500 Nitro Express and a .505 Gibbs rifle.\n\nPetrus Jacobs was an early Boer elephant hunter in South Africa, described by Frederick Selous as \"the most experienced elephant hunter in South Africa.\" Over seventy-three years old when Selous met him, Jacobs must have been born around 1800. Jacobs is believed to have killed between 400 and 500 bull elephants, mostly from horseback but also on foot when hunting in tsetse fly country. Jacobs is also said to have killed over 100 lions, Selous saw him be mauled badly by one at over seventy-three years of age, he was saved by his three powerful dogs who attacked the lion's hind quarters, and within two months he was able to ride a horse again.\n\nFrederick Vaughan Kirby was a soldier, traveller, big game hunter and collector of natural history specimens. Irish born, Kirby hunted extensively throughout Portuguese East Africa and the eastern Transvaal until the Anglo-Boer War, publishing two books on his hunting experiences, \"In haunts of wild game\" in 1896 and \"Sport in east central Africa\" in 1899. After service in the Anglo-Boer War Kirby applied for employment on the Sabie Game Reserve but instead he became superintendent of the Transvaal Museum's zoological gardens until 1907, by 1908 he was making a living by selling birds and mammals to museums and private collectors. In 1911 Kirby became the Game Conservator for Zululand and he was instrumental in the proclamation of the uMkhuze Game Reserve before his retirement in 1929. Over the course of his life Kirby hunted elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, buffalo, lion, leopard, giraffe, eland, kudu, sable antelope, wildebeest, crocodiles and numerous smaller game. Kirby hunted extensively with a Gibbs–Farquharson–Metford and a Gibbs–Metford double rifle in .461 Gibbs, a Westley Richards 12 bore double rifle and a 10 bore double smoothbore.\n\nKarl Larsen was a Danish professional elephant hunter who did most of his hunting in Portuguese East Africa and Portuguese West Africa in the early 20th century. It is believed Larsen had shot over 300 elephants by 1909, and he continued to hunt in West Africa for another 17 years. One of Larsen's favourite weapons for elephant was a .600 Nitro Express by W.J. Jeffery & Co. One incident recorded about Larsen occurred on 20 January 1909, whilst on the trail of a wounded bull elephant in the district of Benguela, he came upon a pride of lions, killing seven of them in two minutes with nine shots from his .600 Nitro Express.\n\nHarry Manners (1917–1997) was a 20th-century South African elephant hunter. Born in Grootfontein to an English father and German mother, Manners shot his first elephant aged 17 using an old 10.75 x 68mm Mauser rifle. In 1937 Manners moved to the Portuguese East African hinterlands to take up elephant hunting, at the time there were no hunting restrictions there, he continued to hunt elephant (also selling the meat) professionally until 1953 when commercial ivory hunting was closed in Portuguese East Africa. Manners shot approximately 1,000 elephants in his life, his finest tusker had tusks weighing , the fourth largest African tusks ever recorded, he estimated that for every elephant he shot with tusks in the range, he had to walk . Manners predominantly hunted with a Winchester Model 70 firing the .375 H&H Magnum over iron sights (he thought a rifle scope added unnecessary weight), although for a period when .375 H&H ammunition was suddenly unavailable he resorted to a .30-06 Springfield, although he only killed 40 elephants with it and only under the most certain conditions. Manners later ran a curio shop in the Skukuza camp in Kruger National Park, where he was a tourist attraction himself, in 1980 he published his autobiography, \"Kambaku!\".\n\nMuhammad Iqbal \"Bali\" Mauladad (1926–1970) was a Kenyan sportsman and safari guide. Born in Nairobi, Mauladad's father was a millionaire building contractor and he was initially groomed to move into the family business, but his passions were hunting, cricket and car racing. Mauladad first went on safari aged 11, at 17 he started hunting big game and decided to became a professional safari guide, first working for Safariland and later Ker and Downey. Mauladad was the only non-white to be admitted to the East African Professional Hunter's Association, notable clients of his include King Mahendra of Nepal and Stavros Niarchos. For big game hunting Mauladad used double rifles chambered in .470 Nitro Express and .475 Nitro Express along with a .416 Rigby magazine rifle.\n\nArthur Henry Neumann (1850–1907) was an English explorer, hunter, soldier, writer and big game hunter. Arriving in South Africa in 1869, Neumann held various jobs until 1877 when he took up hunting professionally, which except for a brief period of military service in 1879 for the Anglo-Zulu War, he did uninterrupted until 1890 in the Transvaal and Swaziland and along the Limpopo and Sabi rivers, shooting most game in southern Africa with the exception of elephant. In 1890 he entered the service of the Imperial British East Africa Company exploring for the Uganda Railway during which period he shot his first elephant. In 1893 Neumann departed on a 3-year hunting and exploring trip in East Africa, returning to England to publish \"Elephant hunting in Equatorial East Africa\" in 1897. Between 1899 and 1902 Neumann participated in the Second Boer War, in 1902 he returned to East Africa hunting elephant continuously until 1906 when he returned to England, dying the following year. One of the first to hunt elephant professionally in East Africa, it is unknown how many elephant Neumann shot in his life although it is believed to be in excess of 300. In his early career Neumann hunted with a .577 Black Powder Express double rifle by George Gibbs and a 10 bore double rifle by Holland & Holland, when the .303 British cartridge was introduced he hunted extensively with a Lee-Metford rifle and in 1902 he acquired a Rigby .450 Nitro Express double rifle which was his favourite for elephant.\n\nWilliam Cotton Oswell (1818–1893) was an English born 19th century explorer and big game hunter. In 1837 Oswell entered the service of the British East India Company, whilst in India he enjoyed fox coursing with Afghan hounds, pig sticking, snipe shooting, and big game hunting, shooting sambar, chital and bear, although in 1844 after suffering from severe malaria he was sent to the Cape Colony to recover. Once Oswell arrived in Africa his health quickly recovered and over the next 8 years, except for a short period in England and India, he spent his time exploring and hunting. No source describes the total amount of game Oswell shot, but he shot large numbers of elephant, rhinoceros, buffalo, hippopotamus, giraffe and quagga. Every animal Oswell shot, except 3 elephant, were subsequently completely eaten by his camp followers or local tribesmen, he once fed 600 highly emaciated men, women and children of the Bakaa tribe for 7 weeks and sent them home with an abundant supply of meat. According to Sir Samuel Baker, Oswell \"was a first-rate horseman, and all of his shooting was from the saddle, or by dismounting for a shot after he had run his game to bay.\" Always shooting game from the closest possible range, Oswell had horses he was riding killed by buffalo and white rhinoceros, and on one occasion a lioness landed on his horse's rump. Oswell did almost all of his hunting with a double-barrelled 10 bore muzzle loader made by Purdey which weighed , fired 5 to 6 drams (8.9 to 10.6 g) of fine powder and was specially built to fire solid balls.\n\nPeter C. \"Pete\" Pearson (1876–1929) was an Australian born game ranger and elephant hunter. Born in Melbourne, at 18 years of age Pearson left home and travelled Australia in search of adventure, he was a surveyor's assistant in Gippsland, a shearer in New South Wales and Queensland and a miner at Broken Hill, finally in order to reach the Anglo Boer War he volunteered as an ordinary seaman to get to South Africa. After the Boer War, Pearson remained in Africa and in 1904 he arrived in Kenya to hunt elephant. In 1907 Pearson moved into the Lado Enclave to poach elephant, returning to Kenya in 1911 to recommence licensed hunting, which he did until the start of the Great War when he enlisted to the intelligence department. After the war Pearson joined the Uganda Game Department as an elephant hunter, controlling elephant numbers which were causing significant damage to crops. In 1928 the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VIII) travelled through East Africa including Uganda, Pearson was charged with organising a hunting safari and for 8 days the Royal party hunted under Pearson's guidance. On the last day of the safari, a rogue bull elephant charged the Royal Party and Pearson placed himself between the Prince and the elephant, shooting with lethal effect. Sir William Gowers, Governor of Uganda, later wrote \"It was an exhibition of presence of mind, quickness and courage which I am glad to have been privileged to witness, and which none of those who saw it will ever forget.\" The Prince gave Pearson a royal tie pin and cufflinks as mementoes of the occasion. It is believed Pearson shot over 1,000 elephants over the course of his life, he used a Rigby Mauser .350 Rigby, a W.J. Jeffery & Co .404 Jeffery and a .577 Nitro Express.\n\nPhilip Hope Percival (1886–1966) was an English born Kenyan professional hunter. In 1906, at the age of 21 Percival sailed to Kenya having been drawn to East Africa by the tales of his older brother Blaney. Initially Percival tried various agricultural pursuits whilst he hunted recreationally with his brother and local ostrich farmers Harold and Clifford Hill, predominantly shooting lion, in time he started talking clients on lion hunting trips. In 1909 Percival received his big break, he was invited by Sir Alfred Pease to assist with a lion hunt for Theodore Roosevelt and the Smithsonian–Roosevelt African Expedition, following this he took to guiding hunting safaris full-time. One of the earliest established professional guides, Percival became one of the most respected and highest paid hunters of his day, his clients included Baron Rothschild, the Duke and Duchess of Connaught, Gary Cooper, George Eastman and arguably the most famous Ernest Hemingway, who used Percival as the inspiration for the character 'Pop' in \"Green Hills of Africa\". Known by colleagues as \"the dean of hunters\", Percival hunted with a pair of .450 No 2 Nitro Express boxlock double rifles made by Joseph Lang.\n\nMajor Percy Horace Gordon Powell-Cotton (1866–1940) was an English naturalist, explorer, hunter collector and early conservationist. Embarking on his first expedition in 1890, Powell-Cotton made 28 expeditions over a 50-year period throughout Africa and Asia to gather and categorise zoological and ethnographical specimens. Powell-Cotton was primarily concerned with contributing to scientific knowledge through preservation and documentation, not with indiscriminately collecting trophies, returning with their remains to Britain to be mounted by renowned London taxidermist Rowland Ward. The Powell-Cotton Museum, built to house his specimens, contains over 16,000 mammal skeletons and skins but also includes butterflies, insects and birds. Among his most famous specimens was one of the largest tuskers ever killed, the pair of tusks weighed , the largest tusk was long, in diameter and weighed . An inveterate client of W.J. Jeffery & Co, Powell-Cotton hunted with a .255 Jeffery Rook rook rifle, a scoped .256 Mannlicher, a .400 Jeffery Nitro Express double rifle, a .600 Nitro Express double rifle, a 12 bore ball and shot gun and an 8 bore hammer double rifle all by that maker, as well as a 12 bore paradox gun by Holland & Holland.\n\nPaul James Rainey (1877–1923) was an American businessman, philanthropist, hunter, and photographer. In 1911 Rainey set sail from New York with a pack of 15 Southern American Foxhounds, having informed a correspondent of \"The New York Times\" that his \"principle desire\" was \"to trap wild animals and bring them back alive.\" Instead, Rainey is said to have killed over 200 lions using this pack. In an editorial, \"The New York Times\" later questioned Rainey's sportsmanship, equating his hunting to \"butcher's work\", John Guille Millais wrote \"Paul Rainey's method of hunting lions with a large pack of hounds can hardly come into the true category of lion-hunting where risks are taken. The dogs, it is true, were often killed or wounded; but as a friend who had taken part in the hunts remarked: 'It is just like rat-hunting, and about as dangerous'.\" Rainey subsequently made a wildlife film of his hunting in Africa, \"Paul Rainey's African Hunt\", released in April 1912 it was the largest money-making wildlife film of the decade.\n\nFrederick Courtney Selous (1851–1917) was an English born hunter, explorer, soldier and writer. Selous arrived in South Africa in 1870 determined to become an elephant hunter, hunting and trading predominantly in Mashonaland and Matabeleland until 1881, subsequently conducting several return hunting trips to Africa as well as hunting trips to Asia Minor, Wyoming, Transylvania, Canada, Sardinia, Kenya, the Yukon, Norway and the Sudan. Over the course of his life Selous shot 106 elephant, 177 buffalos, 31 lions, 23 white rhinoceros, 28 black rhinoceros, 67 giraffe and numerous antelope in Africa. Additionally, Selous shot moose, wapiti, caribou, wolf, lynx, deer and pronghorn in North America, red deer and wild goat in Asia Minor and red deer, reindeer, chamois and mouflon in Europe. Selous was provided with a large number of rifles by British gunmakers in the hope of his endorsement, but he makes mention of 2 Dutch made 4 bore muzzle loading 2 grove Roer rifles which weighed about and fired 4 oz balls driven 16 – 18 drams of powder, an 8 bore single-barrelled rifle, a 10 bore muzzle loading single-barrelled rifle, a 10 bore breech loading single-barrelled rifle, several 10 bore breech loading double rifles, a 12 bore double breech loading smooth bore made by W.W. Greener, at least one .461 No 1 Gibbs–Metford–Farquharson rifle by Gibbs of Bristol (a favourite), a single-barrelled .450 Black Powder Express by Henry of Edinburgh, a .375 Flanged Nitro Express falling block rifle and a .303 British falling block rifle both by Holland & Holland, a .303 British Lee–Metford rifle and a .256 Mannlicher falling block rifle.\n\nSir Alfred Sharpe (1853–1935) was a British adventurer, planter, lawyer, professional hunter and colonial administrator in Nyasaland. After qualifying as a solicitor Sharpe practiced law in Lancaster for several years until 1853 when he moved his family to Fiji and unsuccessfully became a sugarcane planter, also acted as a local magistrate. In 1887, aged 34, he arrived in central Africa and spent the next two years hunting elephant professionally, predominantly in the Luangwa Valley. In 1889, whilst hunting in the lower Shire River valley, Sharpe had a chance meeting with Harry Johnston who immediately appointed Sharpe as his vice-consul. In 1897 Sharpe succeeded Johnston as consul of the British Central Africa Protectorate, later becoming the first governor of Nyasaland until his retirement in 1910. Whilst in the colonial service and after his retirement, Sharpe never lost his interest in hunting and whenever the opportunity arose he would go on long expeditions from central Africa into the Congo, from East Africa to Rhodesia, mainly to hunt elephant, the Sharpe's grysbok, Sharpe's greenbul and Sharpe's pied-babbler are all named after him. Between 1887 and 1892 Sharpe used an 8 bore double rifle and a single barrelled 4 bore, whilst in 1893 he acquired his first bolt actioned rifle, preferring them to doubles from that time on due to the availability for more than two shots. Sharpe hunted extensively with a .333 Jeffery and a .404 Jeffery, on an expedition in 1916 he used a .600 Nitro Express double rifle but discarded it after an incident involving four elephants, having shot the first two he was charged by the remaining animals before he had time to reload.\n\nMajor Chauncey Hugh Stigand (1877–1919) was a British soldier, colonial administrator and big game hunter. Serving in Burma, British Somaliland, British East Africa and the Sudan, Stigand was a keen big game hunter who took greater risks than most hunters and often came close to being fatally injured. Stigand was gored in the chest by a rhino, mauled by a wounded lion that he was following up in the dark, tusked through the leg by an elephant that he was trying to drive out of a garden (without a rifle) and was knocked to the ground by another wounded elephant which stood over him bleeding whilst he lay hidden. Stigand once crawled into a cave after another wounded lion which, luckily for him, had died by the time he reached it. Stigand wrote several books including \"Hunting the elephant in Africa\" and \"The game of British East Africa\", he usually used a .256 Mannlicher for elephants, rhinoceros, lion, buffalo and smaller game, he also used an old big bore .450 Nitro Express double rifle which he usually had a gun bearer carry for him.\n\nJames H. \"Jim\" Sutherland (1872–1932) was a Scottish born soldier and professional elephant hunter. Arriving in Africa in the 1896, from 1902 Sutherland hunted elephant professionally in Portuguese East Africa, German East Africa, the Belgian Congo and the French Congo. Over the course of his life Sutherland shot between 1,300 and 1,600 elephants. Unlike \"Karamojo\" Bell, Sutherland preferred heavy calibre rifles for elephant and rhinosaurus hunting, his favourite rifle being a Westley Richards single-trigger Droplock double rifle in .577 Nitro Express, he also used with a bolt action .318 Westley Richards for open country where quarry was difficult to approach and longer ranged shots were required. In 1912 he wrote an account of his exploits to that date, \"The adventures of an elephant hunter\", upon his return to London in 1913 he was feted as the \"World's greatest elephant hunter\". Sutherland is considered one of the most successful of Africa's professional elephant hunters.\n\nColonel Harald George Carlos Swayne (1860–1940) was a British soldier, explorer, naturalist and big game hunter. Between 1884 and 1897 Swayne hunted whilst on active service in both Africa and India, between 1898 and 1927 he made roughly 40 further privately funded trips throughout Africa and Asia. Swayne shot numerous big game, including elephant, rhinoceros, lion, tiger, leopard and bear, the Swayne's hartebeest and Swayne's Dik-dik are both named after him. Swayne hunted with various rifles, in his earlier years his battery consisted of a 4 bore double smoothbore, an 8 bore double paradox gun and a .577 Black Powder Express double rifle all made by Holland & Holland, along with a Lee–Metford, a Martini–Henry and a 12 bore pistol. In later years he also used a .500/450 Nitro Express double rifle by Holland & Holland.\n\nJohn Howard \"Pondoro\" Taylor (1904–1969) was an Irish born big game hunter, elephant poacher and writer. Arriving in Cape Town in 1920, Taylor hunted elephant professionally, often illegally, for almost 30 years in Kenya, Tanganyika and Portuguese East Africa, in his career he shot most of the big game of eastern Africa and it is believed he shot over 1,000 elephants. Taylor experimented widely with different types of hunting rifles, cartridges and bullet types throughout his career, his books \"African rifles and cartridges\" and \"Big game and big game rifles\" explore the practical application of bullet ballistics and type including articulating the \"Taylor KO factor\" to calculate the \"knock out\" value (a \"knock out\" meant that the elephant was sufficiently stunned by the hit that he would not immediately turn on the hunter) of cartridges and bullet types. Taylor's writings also discuss numerous American, British and European cartridges as well as rifle actions with comparative notes on double rifles, magazine rifles and single-shot rifles. In his writings Taylor expresses a preference for double rifles and makes particular mention of the .275 No 2 Magnum, the .300 H&H Magnum, the .333 Jeffery, the .375 H&H Magnum, the .450/400 Nitro Express (both the 3 inch and 3¼ inch versions), the .416 Rigby, the .450 No 2 Nitro Express, the .500/465 Nitro Express, the .470 Nitro Express and the .600 Nitro Express.\n\nDonald Malcolm Stuart Anderson (1934–2014) was an Anglo-Indian big game hunter, angler and naturalist. The son of Kenneth Anderson, Donald shot his first leopard at the age of 13 and over the course of his life shot numerous elephant, tiger, leopard, bear, gaur, wild boar and deer, reluctantly giving up hunting in 1972 with the passing of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. Donald gained fame from his contributions to his father's writings, describing several hunts for rogue and man-eating tigers and leopards, he was also Stewart Granger's stunt double for the film Harry Black and the Tiger. Donald lived in Bangalore and like his father hunted the forests of southern India, he hunted with a .423 Mauser rifle for large and dangerous game, a .30-06 Springfield rifle for deer and wild boar and a W. W. Greener shotgun. It has been claimed that Donald was one of the last white hunters from India's colonial period.\n\nKenneth Douglas Stuart Anderson (1910–1974) was a British Indian hunter, writer and naturalist. Born into a family of Scottish descent that had been in India for several generations, Anderson was a civil servant in Bangalore whose main pastime was watching and hunting game in the forests of Southern India. On behalf of the government, Anderson shot a number of man-eating tigers and leopards as well as rogue bears and elephants that had threatened and killed local villagers, official records from 1939 to 1966 show he shot 7 man-eating tigers and 8 man-eating leopards, although he is rumoured to have shot many more. Anderson wrote several books about Indian wildlife, hunting and the locals of the jungle including \"Nine maneaters and one rogue\", his observations about wildlife include the first account of a pack of dhole killing a tiger. Anderson usually hunted alone, his preferred method of hunting man-eaters was to sit in a machan over a bait, usually a cow or goat but on occasion the corpse of one of the man-eater’s victims. Anderson hunted predominantly with a Winchester Model 1895 chambered in .405 Winchester and a double-barreled 12 bore shotgun, one barrel loaded with L.G. shot, the other with a solid slug.\n\nSir Samuel White Baker (1821–1893) was an English explorer, soldier, naturalist, big game hunter, engineer, writer and abolitionist. Growing up on a country estate where he learnt to shoot, following a period in Mauritius Baker travelled to Ceylon in 1846 to satisfy his craving for wild sport, remaining there with some interruptions until 1855. Between 1861 and 1873 Baker conducted several trips to Africa to hunt, explore and on one occasion abolish some slave markets, in 1879 he started a three-year round the world trip which included North America and in later years he settled in England but would winter in India or Egypt. Over the course of his life Baker killed hundreds of Asiatic elephant, over 200 buffalo, 22 tigers, approximately 400 sambar, considerable numbers of boar, leopard, sloth bear, swamp deer, blackbuck and other game in Asia, over 50 African elephants, rhinoceros, hippopotami, buffalo, lion, giraffe, waterbuck, wild ass, 13 species of antelope and gazelle, ostrich, crocodile and others in Africa, wapiti, bear and a bison, in North America and numerous game in Britain and Europe. Baker shot most of his game, both dismounted and mounted on horseback, although whilst in Ceylon he also hunted sambar and boar with his own pack of hounds and a hunting knife, and coursed axis deer with greyhounds. Baker published his first of book, \"The rifle and hound in Ceylon\" in 1853, establishing his fame as a big game hunter. Baker’s career predominantly preceded the arrival of cordite, he shot with a number of black powder firearms including a specially built 6 bore single-barrelled muzzle loading rifle by Gibbs of Bristol, four 8 bore single-barrel rifles (two muzzle loaders, two breech loaders), seven 10 bore muzzle-loaded double rifles, one 10 bore muzzle-loaded double smoothbore, one 14 bore muzzle-loaded single-barrelled rifle, one .577 Black Powder Express double rifle by Holland & Holland (his favourite rifle) and two specially made single-barrelled rifles by Holland & Holland that fired explosive shells of his own design that weighed each.\n\nColonel Edward James \"Jim\" Corbett (1875–1955) was a British Indian soldier, conservationist, writer and hunter. Born and raised in India, Corbett served in the British Indian Army, serving in both world wars and rising to the rank of Colonel. Never a trophy hunter of big cats, between 1907 and 1938 Corbett shot 33 man-eaters (31 tigers and 2 leopards) who had terrorised local villagers, it is estimated that the man-eaters he dispatched had collectively killed over 1,600 men, women and children. A keen conservationist, Corbett was instrumental in the establishment of wildlife protection areas in India, the Jim Corbett National Park was named in his honour, along with the Indochinese tiger \"(Panthera tigris corbetti)\". Corbett wrote a number of books including \"Man-eaters of Kumaon\", since publication his writings have never been out of print. Corbett usually hunted alone and on foot, only using a machan when absolutely necessary as he considered them unsporting. Corbett initially hunted with a rifle chambered in .500 Black Powder Express, later switching to a W.J. Jeffery & Co .400 Jeffery Nitro Express double rifle and a Rigby bolt actioned .275 Rigby.\n\nLieutenant Colonel John Champion Faunthorpe (1871–1929) was an English born British Indian administrator, soldier, horseman, big game hunter and sports shooter. Arriving in India in 1892, Faunthorpe was introduced to big game hunting in 1894 and remained an keen sportsman for the remainder of his life. Faunthorpe was an avid horseman and was very keen on pigsticking, he is said to have also speared leopard, cheetah and swamp deer from horseback. Over the course of his life Faunthorpe is thought to have shot over 300 tigers, numerous leopard (he once shot over 100 in one year), bear and deer, shooting most of his tiger from elephant back. Between 1922 and 1923, Faunthorpe joined Arthur Vernay in conducting the Vernay-Faunthorpe expedition, collecting Asian wildlife specimens for the American Natural History Museums in Chicago and New York, during which he shot the rare Asiatic lion in the Gir forest. Faunthorpe was a crack rifle shot, he shot for Great Britain in the 1924 Paris Olympiad, he was also considered one of the best ever shots from a howdah, having the ability to make both snap shots and the patience to work with the sway of an elephant.\n\nCaptain Philip Payne-Gallwey (1812–1894) was a soldier, road builder and sportsman in Ceylon. Gallwey was the son of Sir William Payne-Gallwey, 1st Baronet and served in the 90th Regiment of Foot (Perthshire Volunteers). Gallwey is said to have killed between 700 and 1,300 elephants in Ceylon, depending on the source, in elephant control efforts. In the 1840s, the government of Ceylon offered rewards of 7-10 shillings for the killing of an elephant due to the destruction they caused to crops.\n\nSultan Ibrahim I of Johor (1873–1959) was the 22nd Sultan of Johor. An inveterate hunter of tiger, leopard and elephant, Ibrahim was also a keen conservationist who lent his wholehearted support and patronage to game protection in Jahor. Ibrahim appointed the first salaried Game Warden on the Malay Peninsula in 1921 and assisted with the establishment of the Endau-Rompin National Park in 1933.\n\nMajor Henry Astbury \"The Old Shekarry\" Leveson (1828–1875) was an English born soldier, author and big game hunter. At the age of 17, Leveson took a commission in the Honourable East India Company serving in India until 1853, he subsequently served in the Ottoman cavalry during the Crimean War, with Garibaldi’s Red Shirts during the Expedition of the Thousand, in Lagos following the Lagos Treaty of Cession (where he was shot in the jaw) and with Robert Napier’s expedition to Abyssinia. Over the course of his life Leveson shot tiger, lion, leopard, snow leopard, bear, wolf, gorilla, elephant, hippopotamus, gaur, wild cattle, buffalo, bison, wild boar, nilgai, ibex, chamois, bighorn sheep, moose, various species of deer and various species of antelope in addition to numerous small game and bird species throughout Europe, India, Asia, North America and Africa. Leveson wrote a number of books about his sporting experiences under the pen name \"The Old Shekarry\", including \"Hunting grounds of the Old World\" and \"Sport in many lands\". Leveson stated his favorite gunmaker was Westley Richards, whilst a 12 bore breech loader was sufficient for all big game hunting except elephant, for which a 10 bore was required.\n\nNripendra Narayan (1862–1911) was the Maharaja of Koch Bihar from 1863 to 1911. An avid sportsman, Narayan did most of his big game shooting mounted on elephant from a howdah. In his book \"Thirty-seven years of big game shooting in Cooch Behar, the Duars, and Assam\", Narayan listed the total big game shot by him or his hunting party from 1871 to 1907 as; 365 tigers, 311 leopards, 207 rhinoceros, 48 bison, 133 bear, 259 sambar and 318 barasingh. Over the course of his hunting career, Narayan shot with \"almost every variety of weapon\", although he makes mention of a 4 bore double-barreled rifle firing 15 drams (26.6 g) of black powder, a .577 Nitro Express double rifle by Westley Richards, two .500 Nitro Express double rifles by Lang and Holland & Holland, a .500/465 Nitro Express double rifle by Holland & Holland, a .450 No 2 Nitro Express double rifle and a .450/400 Nitro Express both by Manton & Co, an early model 12 bore Paradox gun by Holland & Holland that fired 4.5 drams (8 g) of black powder and a later specially modified 12 bore Paradox gun by Holland & Holland that fired of cordite.\n\nMajor Thomas William Rogers (1804–1845) was a British colonial administrator, soldier and sportsman in Ceylon. Rogers was the assistant government agent and district judge of Buttala, and a Major of the Ceylon Rifle Regiment who was said to have killed over 1,500 elephants in elephant control efforts. Rogers did all of his hunting with muzzle loaded 16 bore smoothbore longarms with the barrels cut down to , and he used the proceeds from the ivory recovered to purchase his successive regimental commissions. Rogers was killed by a bolt of lightning in the course of his duties in the Haputale Pass, so popular was he with the locals, that the Buddhist population of the Uva district erected the Anglican St Mark’s Church in Badulla in his honour.\n\nGanga Singh (1880–1943) was the Maharaja of Bikaner from 1888 to 1943. A very enthusiastic hunter who hunted extensively both within his own kingdom and beyond, Ganga Singh shot his first tiger, leopard and bear in 1869 aged 16 and in later years used hunting with visiting dignitaries to his kingdom as a means of diplomacy. By 1942 Ganga Singh had shot 266 tigers, 7 Asiatic lion and 61 leopards, most of these tigers and leopards were shot in Mewar, Gwalior, Kotah and British territories whilst the lions were all shot in or near the Gir forest. In addition to big game, over the course of his life Ganga Singh shot over 25,000 sandgrouse, 23,000 duck and 3,000 kunj.\n\nSadul Singh (1902–1950) was the last Maharaja of Bikaner from 1943 to 1949. The son of Ganga Singh, like his father Sudal Singh hunting extensively both within and outside of his own kingdom. Over the course of his life Sadul Singh shot tigers in central India, an Asiatic lion in the Gir forest, leopards in Bharatpur, wild water buffalo in Nepali Tarai, Asiatic cheetah in Rewah and beyond India cape buffalo, black rhinoceros and 31 other varieties of herbivore in Africa. Sudal Singh wrote an account of his hunting exploits, \"The big game diary of Sadul Singh, Maharajkumar of Bikaner\" which was privately published in 1936, in it he recounts shooting nearly 50,000 game animals and a further 46,000 game birds to that date; including 33 tigers, 30 Great Indian bustards and over 21,000 sandgrouse.\n\nMajor Thomas Skinner (1804–1877) was a Canadian born British soldier, road builder and sportsman. Whilst Commissioner of Roads in Ceylon in the 1840s, he is said to have killed between 700 and 1,200 elephants, depending on the source, in elephant control efforts. In 1891 he published an autobiography, \"Fifty years in Ceylon: an autobiography\".\n\nArthur de Carle Sowerby (1885–1954) was a British naturalist, big game hunter and explorer in China in the early 1900s. Born in China to British missionary parents, Sowerby spoke fluent Chinese and in 1906 was invited to join the Duke of Bedford's mission to collect zoological specimens for the British Museum in Shensi. In 1909 Sowerby joined Robert Sterling Clark's expedition from the Yellow River into Shensi and then to Kansu province to collect specimens, between then and 1915 he made four separate expeditions into Manchuria and Mongolia. Serving in the British Army during the Great War, in the early 1920s Sowerby found that his chronic arthritis was preventing him from making any more expeditions. Sowerby wrote several books about his sporting experiences, including \"Fur and feather in North China\", \"A sportsman’s miscellany\" and \"Sport and science on the Sino-Mongolian frontier\". Over the course of his career Sowerby shot leopard, wolf, bear, argali, boar, goral, wapiti, roe deer, musk deer, sika deer and numerous small game species.\n\nPatrick \"Paddy\" Cahill (c.1863–1923) was an Australian buffalo shooter, farmer and protector of aboriginies. Born in Laidley, Queensland, in 1883 Paddy and his brothers joined Nat Buchanan in droving 20,000 head of cattle from Townsville, Queensland to Wave Hill Station in the Northern Territory, a task that took 54 weeks. Attracted by reports of up to 60,000 buffalo running wild on the plains of the Alligator River, during the dry season Cahill and his partner William Johnston hunted buffalo for their hides and horns from semi-mobile camps with a workforce of aborigines; at the time buffalo hides were worth £1 each. Cahill later bought a pearling lugger and in 1906 he settled on a farm at Oenpelli, deeply interested in and empathetic to the local aboriginal people, he sought to minimize their contacts with Europeans, particularly missionaries, and in 1912 was appointed a protector and manager of a reserve based on Oenpelli. Cahill hunted buffalo mostly from horseback, he killed 1605 buffalo in his most successful season, his most successful day hunting saw 48 buffalo killed, he attributed much of his success to his fast intelligent horse \"St Lawrence\".\n\nThomas Edward \"Tom\" Cole (1906–1995) was an English born Australian stockman, horse-breaker, brumby runner, drover, buffalo shooter, crocodile shooter, coffee grower and author. Arriving in Australia in 1923, Cole worked on various cattle stations in Queensland and the Northern Territory before taking up droving for a year, then breaking horses at Banka Banka Station. After a short time running brumbies on Inverway Station, in 1932 Cole started hunting buffalo for their hides. In 1933 Cole purchased 100 square miles of land on the Wildman River and took to hunting buffalo professionally, also shooting crocodiles for their skins. After a brief period of service World War 2 Cole tried running a laundry and dry cleaning business in Sydney, before becoming Papua New Guinea's first professional crocodile shooter. Cole hunted buffalo mostly from horseback with a .303 British service rifle, he killed 1600 buffalo in his most successful season, his most successful day hunting saw 36 buffalo killed. In 1988 Cole published an autobiography, \"Hell west and crooked\", which sold over 100,000 copies.\n\nRobert Joel \"Joe\" Cooper (1860–1936) was an Australian buffalo hunter. Born near Riverton in South Australia, between 1878 and 1881, with his brother Harry, Cooper arrived in the Northern Territory and for several years engaged in timber-getting and buffalo shooting on the Cobourg Peninsula and surrounding areas. In 1893 the brothers and Edward Robinson made an exploratory foray to Melville Island where, despite local aboriginal hostility, they found thousands of buffalo. In 1895 Cooper returned to Melville Island as Robinson's manager, he was speared in the shoulder but abducted four Tiwi islanders, escaping with them to the mainland. Befriending his captives and learning their language, in 1905 Cooper returned with them and twenty aborigines from Port Essington and settled on the island. Cooper remained on Melville Island for ten years, shooting over 1000 buffalo a year for their hides and horns as well as cutting Cyprus pine and fishing for trepang. Known as 'The King of Melville Island', in 1915 Cooper left after accusations of cruelty by him and the Port Essington aborigines towards the local Tiwi islanders.\n\nEdward Oswin Robinson (1847–1917) was an English born Australian customs officer, trader, buffalo shooter, pastoralist and miner. Arriving in Australia before 1873, Robinson tried pearling at King Sound, trepanging on Croker Island, managing a cattle station at Port Essington and from 1881 was for several years a customs officer collecting duties and licence fees from Macassan trepangers. Whilst a customs officer, Robinson's main source of income was buffalo hides, he shot buffalo on the Cobourg Peninsula from the early 1880s and in 1884 he was the first to hunt buffalo commercially near the Alligator River. By 1897 Robinson claimed to have exported 20,000 buffalo hides from the mainland and another 6600 from Melville Island. Purchasing the lease for Melville Island in 1892, he appointed Joe Cooper as manager and supported his hunting on the island.\n\nWilliam I (c.1028–1087) was King of England from 1066 to 1087. Few hunting details have survived about William except that he was a keen huntsman whose introduction of royal forests and forest law to England (including the creation of the New Forest) have left an enduring impact on the ecology of that country to the present day. William of Malmesbury stated William’s hunting was a form of relaxation to escape the pressures of daily business, the chronicler Ordericus Vitalis wrote that William enjoyed his regular hunting expeditions to the Forest of Dean and the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" stated he loved the red deer \"as if he were their father.\" John Manwood listed the five animals protected by law for the early Norman kings as the hart, hind (both red deer), boar, hare and wolf, and it is assumed from the few hunting accounts of William's sons that the royal hunt was conducted on horseback with hounds. The royal accounts of 1136 from Henry I detail payments to over 100 hunt servants and archers as well as payments for numerous horses and hounds, the hounds were divided into the wolf pack, the king's pack and the main pack, the first two for the king's recreational hunting, the last for use by royal servants for supplying game to the royal table.\n\nLouis XV (1710–1774) was King of France from 1715 to 1774. To the King hunting was an all-absorbing affair, in 1722 he drove from his coronation to his first hunt in the Villers-Cotterêts forest and by 1725 he hunted 276 days in the year and in that same year he was at the death of 362 kills, having ridden 3,121 leagues (12,166 km) behind his hounds. The King hunted with a huge pack of hounds called \"The Great Pack\", made up of 40 to 90 couples (80 to 180 hounds) of different breeds, the number increasing during his reign. The pack was actually three packs divided between the game hunted, wild boar, wolf and red deer, and employed a staff of over 500 noblemen (each being on duty for 3 months at a time) and 250 horses, with a further 2,000 horses available for the use by the King, his courtiers and guests. Between 1743 and 1767 the kills of red deer alone by the Great Pack was 2,651 stags.\n\nVictor Emmanuel II (1820–1878) was King of Sardinia from 1849 to 1861 and King of Italy from 1861 to 1878. The King is credited with saving the Alpine ibex from extirpation from the Alps by creating the Royal Hunting Reserve of the Gran Paradiso in 1856. At the time of its creation there were estimated to be only 60 animals remaining in the Alps, the creation of the park and the appointment of a staff of 55 game keepers to watch and ward the remaining animals saw their numbers climb to between 500 and 1,000 head by 1877, this in spite of the King shooting on average 50 head a year. In 1920 the Royal Hunting Reserve formed the basis of Gran Paradiso National Park by which time it held over 4,000 head of ibex. An enthusiastic alpine sportsman, the King is believed to have shot around 232 male ibex, 22 female ibex and over 700 chamois in his life.\n\nErnest II (1818–1893) was the Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha from 1844 to 1893. The Duke held various extensive sporting estates including Reinhardsbrunn near Gotha, Schloss Rosenau near Coburg, an estate at Hinterriß and a boar forest in Alsace and much of his year was spent hunting; he was also a frequent guest of his brother Prince Albert at Balmoral Castle. The Duke shot 3,283 red deer and over 2,000 chamois in his life, as well as numerous boar, roe deer and small game, much of the shooting was stalked although in the forests of Thuringia the deer was usually driven and as the Duke aged, the chamois at Hinterriß were also driven. The Duke's favourite rifle was a .450 Black Powder Express by Alexander Henry with which he shot running deer out to .\n\nJohn George I (1585–1656) was the Elector of Saxony from 1611 to 1656. The Electors of Saxony were by ancient hereditary \"Lord High Masters of the Chase\" of the Holy Roman Empire, and John George I and his son John George II were possibly the greatest slaughterers of big game in history. Over the course of his life John George I shot 35,421 red deer, 1,045 fallow deer, 11,489 roe deer, 31,902 wild boar, 238 bears, 3,872 wolves, 217 lynxes, 12,047 hares, 19,015 foxes, 37 beavers, 930 badgers, 81 otters and 149 wild cats. These huge numbers of game were killed by a system of elaborate palisades and hundreds of game beaters who drove the game in enormous numbers to within range of the hunters and their still primitive muzzleloading firearms. John George I was also an enthusiastic organizer of area blood sports for the amusement of his court, using the great open market of Dresden as the stage he would pit aurochs brought from Poland against bears or wild boar and stag against wolves and occasionally the Elector would enter the arena himself to dispatch an animal with a spear, these events usually culminated in members of court participating in some fox tossing. It is said that John George I rejected the offer of the throne of Bohemia because the deer in Bohemia were smaller and fewer than those of Saxony.\n\nJohn George II (1613–1680) was Elector of Saxony from 1656 to 1680. John George II followed his father's love of slaughtering huge numbers of driven game, over the course of his life he shot 43,649 red deer, 2,062 fallow deer, 16,864 roe deer, 22,298 wild boar, 239 bears, 2,195 wolves, 191 lynxes, 16,966 hares, 2,740 foxes, 597 beavers, 1,045 badgers, 180 otters and 292 wild cats. In 1665 John George II rebuilt at enormous expense a high palisade fence originally built by his ancestor Augustus, Elector of Saxony in the preceding century and had fallen into disrepair. The fence ran the entire length of the border between Saxony and Bohemia and was rebuilt to prevent the Elector's stags from straying from his country.\n\nJames VI and I (1566-1625) was King of Scotland as James VI from 1567 to 1625 and King of England and Ireland as James I from 1603 to 1625. James' reign was marked by his passion for hunting, he reimposed many previously relaxed game and forest laws, took a close interest in the royal forests and claimed the royal right to hunt all game all over England. Providing James with good days hunting was seen as a valuable way to curry favour with the king, although his secretaries often complained of delays in getting his signature due to his frequent lengthy absences hunting and various foreign ambassadors were on occasion kept waiting for weeks while James was away on an extended hunting trip. James born small and unable to walk properly or hold himself upright without experiencing pain in his legs, but he had considerable stamina mounted and he maintained to his couriers and ministers his need to hunt frequently to protect his health. James usually hunted stag and hare mounted with a pack of hounds.\n\nHolt Collier (c.1848–1936) was a one time slave, soldier, cowboy and famed bear hunter. Collier was born a slave of the Hinds family of Mississippi, from a very young age he cared for the family's pack of hounds and at the age of 10 he moved to their Plum Ridge Plantation in a rugged wilderness area of Washington County, where he was responsible for providing meat for the plantation's workers, he is believed to have killed his first bear that time. At the age of 14 Collier ran away to follow his owners, Howell and Thomas Hinds, into the Confederate Army (against their express orders because of his age), he was the only black man to serve in the Confederate Army from Mississippi, later serving in the 9th Texas Cavalry. After the war Collier worked briefly as a cowboy in Texas before returning to Mississippi and to hunting, he is credited with killing over 3,000 bears, hunting bears and cougars with a pack of hounds. Collier gained national fame when he took Theodore Roosevelt bear hunting, having promised a bear for Roosevelt he single-handedly captured and tied a large black bear to a tree, Roosevelt's refusal to shoot the bear as unsportsmanlike led the press to coin the nickname \"Teddy bear\".\n\nLieutenant General Wade Hampton (1818–1902) was a Confederate soldier, South Carolina politician and plantation owner. Inheriting a significant fortune and significant landholdings in South Carolina and Mississippi, Hampton was a very keen hunter of wild game on his plantations, particularly one plantation located near Greenville in northern Mississippi. Over the course of his life Hampton is thought to have been at the death of over 500 black bears, at least two thirds of which he killed himself, and a similar number of deer. Hampton did all of his hunting mounted on horseback with a large pack of Southern American Foxhounds, with which in addition to bears and deer he killed around 16 cougars, several wolf as well as lynx and grey fox. Hampton was described by Theodore Roosevelt as \"the mightiest hunter America has ever seen\", he usually shot his prey after the hounds had brought it to bay, although he also killed 30-40 bear by hand with a knife, letting the hounds distract the bear whilst he walked up behind it to stab its throat.\n\nErnest Miller Hemingway (1899–1961) was an American novelist, short story writer, journalist and sportsman. Introduced to fishing and hunting by his father when he was four years old, Hemingway maintained a lifelong love of both pursuits, trout fishing and duck shooting in various locations, deep sea fishing for marlin and tuna in the Gulf Stream and big game hunting in Idaho, Montana and Wyoming as well as conducting two safaris in East Africa with Philip Percival as his guide. Hemingway shot brown bear, black bear, wapiti, deer and bighorn sheep in America and lion, leopard, rhinoceros, buffalo, kudu, roan antelope, zebra and numerous gazelle in East Africa, his sporting experiences gave him material for many of his short stories and novels. Hemingway hunted with a 6.5x54mm Mannlicher-Schönauer and a .30-06 Springfield sporter both by Griffin & Howe, a 10.75×68mm Mauser, a .470 Nitro Express double rifle and a .577 Nitro Express double rifle by Westley Richards (with which he also hoped to sink a German U-boat during World War II) as well as several .22 Rimfire rifles and shotguns for small game hunting.\n\nAgnes Elsie Diana Herbert (née Thorpe) (c.1880–1960) was a Manx writer, traveller and sportswoman. Raised on the Isle of Man, Herbert found the prospect of a life of domesticity confining so, with her cousin Cecily Baird, she set out for the Canadian Rockies where the pair taught English cookery to Chinese kitchen workers and gained their first exposure to big game hunting. Upon their return to Britain the cousins secretly began planning a solely sporting expedition, this time to Africa. In 1906 the pair arrived in Somaliland, shooting numerous game including lion, rhinoceros and various antelope, Herbert was mauled by a lion and one of her native guides was killed by a rhinoceros. The pair conducted two more major sporting expeditions, one to Alaska where they hunted bear, walrus, caribou, Dall sheep and moose and another to the Caucasus where they hunted tur, bear, ibex, deer and wild boar, Herbert published an account of all three trips. For their trip to Somaliland, an uncle provided them with a battery of rifles from his personal collection, including three 12 bore rifles, two .500 Black Powder Express double rifles, a .35 Winchester repeater and two 12 bore double-barrelled shikar pistols. Herbert's favourite rifle was a 12 bore firing soft spherical bullets and 5½ drams (9.7 g) of powder which she considered ideal for lion and other dangerous game. For the Alaskan trip the pair took a .256 Mannlicher, a .375 Flanged Nitro Express double rifle and two .450 Nitro Express rifles, for the Caucasus trip they took .256 Mannlicher rifles and a pair of 12 bore shotguns.\n\nElmer Merrifield Keith (1899–1984) was an Idaho rancher, firearms enthusiast, author and sportsman. Keith became known as a regular contributor to \"Guns & Ammo\" magazine as well as authoring a number of books on rifles, pistols, hunting and shooting. Keith lived in the wilds within hiking distance of bear, wapiti, deer, mountain goat and moose, from boyhood he hunted these and other American big game species including caribou, bighorn sheep, dall sheep, antelope, bison, arctic game, cougar and jaguar, making frequent hunting trips to the remotest parts of British Columbia, Alberta, Alaska and the Yukon. An expert on shooting pistols and hunting rifles, Keith’s preference was for cartridges with a caliber of and heavy-for-caliber bullets from up, for African big game hunting he used a .476 Nitro Express double rifle by Westley Richards and a .500 Nitro Express by Charles Boswell. Keith designed and used many unique cartridges for his North American hunting pursuits, his wildcat rifle cartridges are seen to have influenced the development of many modern hunting cartridges including the .338-06, .338-378 Weatherby Magnum and .340 Weatherby Magnum, he is credited with inspiring Winchester to develop the .338 Winchester Magnum.\n\nJohn Woolf \"Jack\" O'Connor (1902–1978) was an American author, outdoorsman and big game hunter. After a brief Army career, O'Connor commenced teaching whilst moonlighting as a reporter. Moving on to writing magazine articles about hunting and rifles, he became best known as a writer for and later the shooting editor of \"Outdoor Life\" magazine, he also wrote several books about hunting, shooting and game animals. Over the course of his life O'Connor shot among other animals brown bear, black bear, cougar, bighorn sheep, dall sheep, mountain goat, moose, wapiti, caribou, deer and pronghorn in North America; lion, leopard, elephant, rhinoceros, buffalo, kudu, sable antelope, oryx and various other antelope in Africa; tiger, ibex, urial, red sheep and blackbuck in Asia. O'Connor used and wrote very highly of the .257 Roberts, 7x57mm Mauser, .30-06 Springfield, .375 H&H Magnum, .416 Rigby and the .450 Watts Magnum, although for North American hunting he was an advocate of lighter flatter shooting projectiles and his name is synonymous with the .270 Winchester, his favourite cartridge.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt (1858–1919) was an American statesman, author, soldier, big game hunter, naturalist and President of the United States. An extremely enthusiastic hunter-naturalist, before his presidency Roosevelt hunted extensively during his ranching days, writing several books about these experiences including \"Hunting trips of a ranchman\", \"Ranch life and the hunting trail\" and \"The wilderness hunter\". Throughout his life Roosevelt strove to save wildlife through the protection of natural habitat, during his political career he quadrupled the acreage of America’s public forests, he built the United States Forest Service which came to administer one twelfth of the land of the United States and he created 55 wildlife refuges, expanded national parks, organized conservation conferences, and popularized a sensibility of respect for nature and preservation of the wilderness. After his presidency Roosevelt embarked on two major hunting expeditions to collect international wildlife specimens for American museums, the 1909–10 Smithsonian–Roosevelt African Expedition to East Africa to collect for the National Museum of Natural History and the 1914–15 Roosevelt–Rondon Scientific Expedition to the Paraguayan and the Brazilian Amazon to collect for the American Museum of Natural History. Over the course of his life Roosevelt shot cougar, grizzly bear, black bear, buffalo, moose, wapiti, caribou, white tailed deer, black tailed deer, mountain goat, big horn sheep and pronghorn in North America; lion, hyena, elephant, white rhinoceros, black rhinoceros, hippopotamus, zebra, giraffe, warthog, eland, oryx, roan antelope, wildebeest, topi, waterbuck, lechwe, hartebeest, kob, impala, gerenuk and gazelle in Africa; jaguar, tapir, peccary and wood deer in South America as well as numerous smaller game in all three continents. In his early days in the American West, Roosevelt hunted with a heavy .45-120 Sharps rifle and an English .500 Black Powder Express double rifle, due to their weight cumbersome nature he promptly swapped both for a .40-90 Sharps rifle, a .50-115 Bullard express 6 shot repeater and a Winchester Model 1876 chambered in .45-75 Winchester (a favourite). In later years he used a M1903 Springfield chambered in .30-03 (another favourite), which he supplemented for his African expedition with a Winchester Model 1895 chambered in \n.405 Winchester and a .500/450 Nitro Express double rifle by Holland & Holland.\n\nColonel Townsend \"Townie\" Whelen (1877–1961) was an American soldier, hunter, writer, outdoorsman and rifleman. Retiring from a career in the Army in 1936, Whelen became a leading outdoor writer, contributing to various sporting publications including \"American Rifleman\", \"Field and Stream\", \"Guns & Ammo\", \"Outdoor Life\" and \"Sports Afield\", as well as writing a number of books on hunting and firearms. Whelen hunted all his life, taking his first deer in 1892 and his last 66 years later, over his life he shot numerous big game animals including brown bear, black bear, moose, wapiti, caribou, white tailed deer, mule deer, black tailed deer, bighorn sheep and mountain goat all over Canada, throughout the Rocky Mountains and in the Adirondacks. Whelen developed a number of rifle cartridges based on the .30-06 Springfield, including the .25 Whelen, .35 Whelen, .375 Whelen and the .400 Whelen.\n\nAlexander \"Sasha\" Siemel (1890–1970) was a Latvian born South American adventurer, guide, actor, writer and jaguar hunter. At a young age, Siemel followed his brother Ernest to Argentina, in 1914 he moved on to the Pantanal of Brazil. Killing his first jaguar (with a spear) in 1925, Siemel became a bounty hunter for ranchers who had suffered severe losses of cattle to jaguar predation. An avid self-promoter, Siemel was famous in his own lifetime through numerous newsreels and articles, in 1953 he published a very popular autobiography \"Tigrero!\". Siemel played a role in the 1937 series \"Jungle Menace\" and he was the subject of an abortive mid-1950s film project starring John Wayne (as Siemel) and Ava Gardner before filming was abruptly stopped whilst in the Amazon. Siemel hunted jaguars with a spear, a bow and arrows and with a rifle, using a pack of hounds to locate his quarry. By 1948, Siemel had killed 281 jaguars, 30 with a spear, 111 with a bow and arrows and the remainder with a rifle, as well as capturing 22 alive, this was 7 years before his retirement from hunting and it is believed he killed over 300 jaguars in his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "3118704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3118704", "title": "Long-term care", "text": "Long-term care\n\nLong-term care (LTC) is a variety of services which help meet both the medical and non-medical needs of people with a chronic illness or disability who cannot care for themselves for long periods. Long term care is focused on individualized and coordinated services that promote independence, maximize patients' quality of life, and meet patients' needs over a period of time.\n\nIt is common for long-term care to provide custodial and non-skilled care, such as assisting with normal daily tasks like dressing, feeding, using the bathroom. Increasingly, long-term care involves providing a level of medical care that requires the expertise of skilled practitioners to address the multiple chronic conditions associated with older populations. Long-term care can be provided at home, in the community, in assisted living facilities or in nursing homes. Long-term care may be needed by people of any age, although it is a more common need for senior citizens.\n\nLong-term care can be provided formally or informally. Facilities that offer formal LTC services typically provide living accommodation for people who require on-site delivery of around-the-clock supervised care, including professional health services, personal care, and services such as meals, laundry and housekeeping. These facilities may go under various names, such as nursing home, personal care facility, residential continuing care facility, etc. and are operated by different providers.\n\nWhile the US government has been asked by the LTC (long-term care) industry \"not\" to bundle health, personal care, and services (e.g., meal, laundry, housekeeping) into large facilities, the government continues to approve that as the primary use of taxpayers' funds instead (e.g., new assisted living). Greater success has been achieved in areas such as supported housing which may still utilize older housing complexes or buildings, or may have been part of new federal-state initiatives in the 2000s.\n\nLong-term care provided formally in the home, also known as home health care, can incorporate a wide range of clinical services (e.g. nursing, drug therapy, physical therapy) and other activities such as physical construction (e.g. installing hydraulic lifts, renovating bathrooms and kitchens). These services are usually ordered by a physician or other professional. Depending on the country and nature of the health and social care system, some of the costs of these services may be covered by health insurance or long-term care insurance.\n\nModernized forms of long term services and supports (LTSS), reimbursable by the government, are user-directed personal services, family-directed options, independent living services, benefits counseling, mental health companion services, family education, and even self-advocacy and employment, among others. In home services can be provided by personnel other than nurses and therapists, who do not install lifts, and belong to the long-term services and supports (LTSS) systems of the US.\n\nInformal long-term home care is care and support provided by family members, friends and other unpaid volunteers. It is estimated that 90% of all home care is provided informally by a loved one without compensation and in 2015, families are seeking compensation from their government for caregiving.\n\n\"Long-term services and supports\" (LTSS) is the modernized term for community services, which may obtain health care financing (e.g., home and community-based Medicaid waiver services), and may or may not be operated by the traditional hospital-medical system (e.g., physicians, nurses, nurse's aides).\n\nThe Consortium of Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) which works with the U. S. Congress, has indicated that while hospitals offer acute care, many non-acute, long-term services are provided to assist individuals to live and participate in the community. An example is the group home international emblem of community living and deinstitutionalization, and the variety of supportive services (e.g., supported housing, supported employment, supported living, supported parenting, family support), supported education.\n\nThe term is also common with aging groups, such as the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), which annually surveys the US states on services for elders (e.g., intermediate care facilities, assisted living, home-delivered meals). Long term services and supports are discussed in depth in the forthcoming, \"Public Administration and Disability: Community Services Administration in the US\" (Racino, manuscript 2012, in press, 2014) The new US Support Workforce includes the Direct Support Professional, which is largely non-profit or for-profit, and the governmental workforces, often unionized, in the communities in US states. Core competencies (Racino-Lakin, 1988) at the federal-state interface for the aides \"in institutions and communities\" were identified in aging and physical disabilities, intellectual and developmental disabilities, and behavioral (\"mental health\") health in 2013 (Larson, Sedlezky, Hewitt, & Blakeway, 2014).\n\nPresident Barack Obama, US House Speaker John Boehner, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Harry Reid, and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell received copies of the US Senate Commission on Long Term Care on the \"issues of service delivery, workforce and financing which have challenged policymakers for decades\" (Chernof & Warshawsky, 2013). The new Commission envisions a \"comprehensive financing model balancing private and public financing to insure catastrophic expenses, encourage savings and insurance for more immediate LTSS (Long Term Services and Supports) costs, and to provide a safety net for those without resources.\" (Ibid, 2013).\n\nThe direct care workforce envisioned by the MDs (physicians, prepared by a medical school, subsequently licensed for practice) in America (who did not develop the community service systems, and serve different, valued roles within it) were described in 2013 as: personal care aides (20%), home health aides (23%), nursing assistants (37%), and independent providers (20%) (p. 10). The US has varying and competing health care systems, and hospitals have adopted a model to transfer \"community funds into hospital\"; in addition, \"hospital studies\" indicate M-LTSS (managed long-term care services) as billable services. In addition, allied health personnel preparation have formed the bulk of the preparation in specialized science and disability centers which theoretically and practically supports modernized personal assistance services across population groups (Litvak & Racino, 1999) and \"managed\" behavioral health care \"as a subset of\" mental health services.\n\nLong-term services and supports (LTSS) legislation was developed, as were the community services and personnel, to address the needs of \"individuals with disabilities\" for whom the state governments were litigated against, and in many cases, required to report regularly on the development of a community-based system. These LTSS options originally bore such categorical services as residential and vocational rehabilitation or habilitation, family care or foster family care, small intermediate care facilities, \"group homes\", and later supported employment, clinics, family support, supportive living, and day services (Smith & Racino, 1988 for the US governments).The original state departments were Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities, Offices of Mental Health, lead designations in Departments of Health in brain injury for communities, and then, Alcohol and Substance Abuse dedicated state agencies.\n\nAmong the government and Executive initiatives were the development of supportive living internationally, new models in supportive housing (or even more sophisticated housing and health), and creative plans permeating the literature on independent living, user-directed categories (approved by US Centers for Medicaid and Medicare), expansion of home services and family support, and assisted living facilities for the aging groups. These services often have undergone a revolution in payment schemes beginning with systems for payment of valued community options (Smith & Alderman, 1987). then termed evidence-based practices.\n\nLife expectancy is going up in most countries, meaning more people are living longer and entering an age when they may need care. Meanwhile, birth rates are generally falling. Globally, 70 percent of all older people now live in low or middle-income countries. Countries and health care systems need to find innovative and sustainable ways to cope with the demographic shift. As reported by John Beard, director of the World Health Organization's Department of Ageing and Life Course, \"With the rapid ageing of populations, finding the right model for long-term care becomes more and more urgent.\"\n\nThe demographic shift is also being accompanied by changing social patterns, including smaller families, different residential patterns, and increased female labour force participation. These factors often contribute to an increased need for paid care.\n\nIn many countries, the largest percentages of older persons needing LTC services still rely on informal home care, or services provided by unpaid caregivers (usually nonprofessional family members, friends or other volunteers). Estimates from the OECD of these figures often are in the 80 to 90 percent range; for example, in Austria, 80 percent of all older citizens. The similar figure for dependent elders in Spain is 82.2 percent.\n\nThe US Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimates that about 9 million American men and women over the age of 65 needed long-term care in 2006, with the number expected to jump to 27 million by 2050. It is anticipated that most will be cared for at home; family and friends are the sole caregivers for 70 percent of the elderly. A study by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services says that four out of every ten people who reach age 65 will enter a nursing home at some point in their lives. Roughly 10 percent of the people who enter a nursing home will stay there five years or more.\n\nBased on projections of needs in long term care (LTC), the US 1980s demonstrations of versions of Nursing Homes Without Walls (Senator Lombardi of New York) for elders in the US were popular, but limited: On LOK, PACE, Channeling, Section 222 Homemaker, ACCESS Medicaid-Medicare, and new Social Day Care. The major argument for the new services was cost savings based upon reduction of institutionalization. The demonstrations were significant in developing and integrating personal care, transportation, homemaking/meals, nursing/medical, emotional support, help with finances, and informal caregiving. Weasart concluded that: \"Increased life satisfaction appears to be relatively consistent benefit of community care\" and that a \"prospective budgeting model\" of home and community-based long term care (LTC) used \"break-even costs\" to prevent institutional care.\n\nA recent analysis indicates that Americans spent $219.9 billion on long-term care services for the elderly in 2012. Nursing home spending accounts for the majority of long-term care expenditures, but the proportion of home and community based care expenditures has increased over the past 25 years. The US federal-state-local government systems have supported the creation of modernized health care options, though new intergovernmental barriers continue to exist.\n\nThe Medicaid and Medicare health care systems in the US are relatively young, celebrating 50 years in 2015. According to the \"Health Care Financing Review\" (Fall 2000), its history includes a 1967 expansion of to ensure primary and preventive services to Medicaid-eligible children (EPSDT), the use home and community-based Medicaid waivers (then HCBS services), Clinton administration health care demonstrations (under 1115 waiver authority), the new era of SCHIP to cover uninsured children and families, coverage for the HIV/AIDS population groups, and attention to ethnic and racial-based service delivery (e.g., beneficiaries). Later, managed care plans which used \"intensive residential children's\" options and \"non-traditional out-patients services (school-based services, partial hospitalization, in-home treatment and case management) developed \"behavioral health care plans\".\n\nIn 2012, the average annual cost of nursing home care in the United States was $81,030 for a semi-private room. The average annual cost for assisted living was $42,600. Home health aides were paid on average $12 per hour and homemaker services averaged about $20 per hour. The average cost of a nursing home for one year is more than the typical family has saved for retirement in a 401(k) or an IRA. As of 2014, 26 states have contracts with managed care organizations (MCO) to deliver long-term care for the elderly and individuals with disabilities. The states pay a monthly capitated rate per member to the MCOs that provide comprehensive care and accept the risk of managing total costs.\n\nWhen the percentage of elderly individuals in the population rises to nearly 14% in 2040 as predicted, a huge strain will be put on caregivers' finances as well as continuing care retirement facilities and nursing homes because demand will increase dramatically. New options for elders during the era of choice expansion (e.g., seniors helping seniors, home companions), which includes limitations on physician choices, assisted living facilities, retirement communities with disability access indicators, and new \"aging in place\" plans (e.g., aging in a group home, or \"transfer\" to a home or support services with siblings upon parents' deaths-intellectual and developmental disabilities).\n\nPolitically, the 21st Century has shifted to the cost of unpaid family caregiving (valued by AARP in aging at $450 billion in 2009), and the governments in the US are being asked to \"foot part of the bill or costs\" of caregiving for family members in home. This movement, based in part on feminist trends in the workplace, has intersected with other hospital to home, home health care and visiting nurses, user-directed services, and even hospice care. The government's Medicaid programs is considered the primary payer of \"Long Term Services and Supports\" (LTSS), according to the American Association of Retired Persons, Public Policy Institute. New trends in family support and family caregiving also affect diverse disability population groups, including the very young children and young adults, and are expected to be high increases in Alzheimer's due to longevity past age 85.\n\nGovernments around the world have responded to growing long-term care needs to different degrees and at different levels. These responses by governments, are based in part, upon a public policy research agenda on long term care which includes special population research, flexible models of services, and managed care models to control escalating costs and high private pay rates.\n\nMost Western European countries have put in place a mechanism to fund formal care and, in a number of Northern and Continental European countries, arrangements exist to at least partially fund informal care as well. Some countries have had publicly organized funding arrangements in place for many years: the Netherlands adopted the Exceptional Medical Expenses Act (ABWZ) in 1967, and in 1988 Norway established a framework for municipal payments to informal caregivers (in certain instances making them municipal employees). Other countries have only recently put in place comprehensive national programs: in 2004, for example, France set up a specific insurance fund for dependent older people and in 2006, Portugal created a public funded national network for long-term care. Some countries (Spain and Italy in Southern Europe, Poland and Hungary in Central Europe) have not yet established comprehensive national programs, relying on informal caregivers combined with a fragmented mix of formal services that varies in quality and by location.\n\nIn the 1980s, some Nordic countries began making payments to informal caregivers, with Norway and Denmark allowing relatives and neighbors who were providing regular home care to become municipal employees, complete with regular pension benefits. In Finland, informal caregivers received a fixed fee from municipalities as well as pension payments. In the 1990s, a number of countries with social health insurance (Austria in 1994, Germany in 1996, Luxembourg in 1999) began providing a cash payment to service recipients, who could then use those funds to pay informal caregivers.\n\nIn Germany, funding for long-term care is covered through a mandatory insurance scheme (or \"Pflegeversicherung\"), with contributions divided equally between the insured and their employers. The scheme covers the care needs of people who as a consequence of illness or disability are unable to live independently for a period of at least six months. Most beneficiaries stay at home (69%). The country's LTC fund may also make pension contributions if an informal caregiver works more than 14 hours per week.\n\nMajor reform initiatives in health care systems in Europe are based, in part on an extension of user-directed services demonstrations and approvals in the US (e.g., Cash and counseling demonstrations and evaluations). Clare Ungerson, a Professor of Social Policy, together with Susan Yeandle, Professor of Sociology, reported on the Cash for Care Demonstrations in Nation-States in Europe (Austria, France, Italy, Netherlands, England, Germany) with a comparative USA (\"paradigm of home and community care\").\n\nIn addition, direct payment schemes were developed and implemented in the UK, including in Scotland, for parents with children with disabilities and people with mental health problems. These \"health care schemes\" on the commodification of care were compared to individualised planning and direct funding in the US and Canada.\n\nIn Canada, facility-based long-term care is not publicly insured under the Canada Health Act in the same way as hospital and physician services. Funding for LTC facilities is governed by the provinces and territories, which varies across the country in terms of the range of services offered and the cost coverage. In Canada, from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014, there were 1,519 long-term care facilities housing 149,488 residents.\n\nCanada-US have a long term relationship as border neighbors on health care; however Canada, similar to the UK (National Health Service), has a system of \"socialized medicine\" (e.g., US, Bernie Sander's Proposal for Medicare for All during the US Presidential campaign). In the development of home and community-based services, individualised services and supports were popular in both Nations. The Canadian citations of US projects included the cash assistance programs in family support in the US, in the context of individual and family support services for children with significant needs. In contrast, the US initiatives in health care in that period involved the Medicaid waiver authority and health care demonstrations, and the use of state demonstration funds separate from the federal programs.\n\nLong-term care is typically funded using a combination of sources including but not limited to family members, Medicaid, long-term care insurance and Medicare. One of these includes out-of-pocket spending, which often becomes exhausted once an individual requires more medical attention throughout the aging process and might need in-home care or be admitted into a nursing home. For many people, out-of-pocket spending for long-term care is a transitional state before eventually needing Medicaid coverage. Personal savings can be difficult to manage and budget and often deplete rapidly. In addition to personal savings, individuals can also rely on an Individual retirement account, Roth IRA, Pension, Severance package or the funds of family members. These are essentially retirement packages that become available to the individual once certain requirements have been met.\n\nIn 2008, Medicaid and Medicare accounted for approximately 71% of national long-term care spending in the United States. Out-of-pocket spending accounted for 18% of national long-term care spending, private long-term care insurance accounted for 7%, and other organizations and agencies accounted for the remaining expenses. Moreover, 67% of all nursing home residents used Medicaid as their primary source of payment.\n\nPrivate Long-Term Care Insurance in 2017 paid over $9.2 Billion in benefits and claims for these policies continue to grow. The largest claim to one person is reported to be over $2 million in benefits \n\nMedicaid is one of the dominant players in the nation's long-term care market because there is a failure of private insurance and Medicare to pay for expensive long-term care services, such as nursing homes. For instance, 34% of Medicaid was spent on long-term care services in 2002.\n\nMedicaid operates as distinct programs which involve home and community-based (Medicaid) waivers designed for special population groups during deinstitutionalization then to community, direct medical services for individuals who meet low income guidelines (held stable with the new Affordable Care Act Health Care Exchanges), facility development programs (e.g., intermediate care facilities for intellectual and developmental disabilities populations), and additional reimbursements for specified services or beds in facilities (e.g., over 63% beds in nursing facilities). Medicaid also fund traditional home health services and is payor of adult day care services. Currently, the US Centers for Medicaid and Medicare also have a user-directed option of services previously part of grey market industry.\n\nIn the US, Medicaid is a government program that will pay for certain health services and nursing home care for older people (once their assets are depleted). In most states, Medicaid also pays for some long-term care services at home and in the community. Eligibility and covered services vary from state to state. Most often, eligibility is based on income and personal resources. Individuals eligible for Medicaid are eligible for community services, such as home health, but governments have not adequately funded this option for elders who wish to remain in their homes after extended illness aging in place, and Medicaid's expenses are primarily concentrated on nursing home care operated by the hospital-nursing industry in the US.\n\nGenerally, Medicare does not pay for long-term care. Medicare pays only for medically necessary skilled nursing facility or home health care. However, certain conditions must be met for Medicare to pay for even those types of care. The services must be ordered by a doctor and tend to be rehabilatative in nature. Medicare specifically will not pay for custodial and non-skilled care. Medicare will typically cover only 100 skilled nursing days following a 3-day admission to a hospital.\n\nA 2006 study conducted by AARP found that most Americans are unaware of the costs associated with long-term care and overestimate the amount that government programs such as Medicare will pay. The US government plans for individuals to have care from family, similar to Depression days; however, AARP reports annually on the Long-term services and supports (LTSS) for aging in the US including home-delivered meals (from senior center sites) and its advocacy for caregiving payments to family caregivers.\n\nLong-term care insurance protects individuals from asset depletion and includes a range of benefits with varying lengths of time. This type of insurance is designed to protect policyholders from the costs of long-term care services, and policies are determined using an \"experience rating\" and charge higher premiums for higher-risk individuals who have a greater chance of becoming ill.\n\nThere are now a number of different types of long term care insurance plans including traditional tax-qualified, partnership plans (providing additional dollar-for-dollar asset protect offered by most states), short-term extended care policies and hybrid plans (life or annuity policies with riders to pay for long term care).\n\nResidents of LTC facilities may have certain legal rights, including a Red Cross ombudsperson, depending on the location of the facility.\n\nUnfortunately, government funded aid meant for long-term care recipients are sometimes misused. \"The New York Times\" explains how some of the businesses offering long-term care are misusing the loopholes in the newly redesigned New York Medicaid program. Government resists progressive oversight which involves continuing education requirements, community services administration with quality of life indicators, evidence-based services, and leadership in use of federal and state funds for the benefit of individual and their family.\n\nFor those that are poor and elderly, long term care becomes even more challenging. Often, these individuals are categorized as \"dual eligibles\" and they qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid. These individuals accounted for 319.5 billion in health care spending in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "50336265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50336265", "title": "Mainamoti Medical College", "text": "Mainamoti Medical College\n\nMainamoti Medical College is a private medical college in Baropara, Comilla, Bangladesh.\n\nThe college was established on 21 February in 2011. It was fined 10 million taka in November 2016 by Bangladesh High Court for admitting students that did not meet the admission requirements for medical college set by health ministry.\n\n"}
{"id": "454723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454723", "title": "Meadow's law", "text": "Meadow's law\n\nNow discredited, Meadow's Law was a precept much in use until recently in the field of child protection, specifically by those investigating cases of multiple cot or crib death – SIDS – within a single family.\n\nThe \"law\" has it that because such deaths are a rare phenomenon and difficult to explain by natural causes, we might say that \"One is a tragedy, two is suspicious and three is murder unless there is proof to the contrary.\"\n\nThe name is derived from the controversial British paediatrician, Roy Meadow, who until 2003 was seen by many as \"Britain's most eminent paediatrician\" and leading expert on child abuse. Meadow's reputation went into decline with a series of legal reverses for his theories, and the damage was confirmed in July 2005 when he was struck off the medical register by the General Medical Council for tendering misleading evidence. Meadow's license was reinstated in February 2006 by a London court.\n\nMeadow attributes many unexplained infant deaths to the disorder or condition in mothers called Munchausen Syndrome by Proxy. According to this diagnosis some parents, especially mothers, harm or even kill their children as a means of calling attention to themselves. Its existence has been confirmed by cases where parents have been caught on video surveillance actively harming their children, but its frequency is subject to debate as Meadow claimed to have destroyed the original data which he used to substantiate the law.\n\nAs a result of the 1993 trial of Beverley Allitt, a paediatric nurse convicted of killing four children under her care and injuring five others, Meadow's ideas gained ascendancy in British child protection circles, and mothers were convicted of murder on the basis of his expert testimony. Thousands of children were removed from their parents and taken into care or fostered out because they were deemed to be 'at risk'. From 2003, however, the tide of opinion turned: a number of high-profile acquittals cast doubt on the validity both of Munchausen's and 'Meadow's Law'. Several convictions were reversed, and many more came under review.\n\nIn a note to his mathematical analysis of the Sally Clark case, Professor Ray Hill endorses a claim that Meadow did not originate the rule:\n\nThe precept was published in the United States by DiMaio and DiMaio in 1989, without mention of Meadow. In \"ABC of Child Abuse\", first published in the same year, Meadow wrote his formulation:\nThe formula is “clearly fallacious” according to Bob Carpenter, Professor of Medical Statistics at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, an expert witness in some of the trials where infant cot deaths were prosecuted as homicides.\n\nCritics of Meadow's law state that it is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of statistics, particularly relating to probability, likelihood, and statistical independence.\n\nAt the trial in 1999 of solicitor Sally Clark, accused of murdering her two sons, Meadow testified that the odds against two such deaths happening naturally was 73,000,000:1, a figure which he obtained by squaring the observed ratio of births to cot-deaths in affluent non-smoking families (approximately 8,500:1).\n\nThis caused an uproar amongst professional statisticians, whose criticisms were twofold:\n\nFirstly, Meadow was accused of espousing the so-called prosecutor's fallacy in which the probability of \"cause given effect\" (i.e. the true likelihood of a suspect's innocence) is confused with that of \"effect given cause\" (the likelihood that innocence will result in the observed double-cot-death). In reality, these quantities can only be equated when the likelihood of the alternative hypothesis, in this case murder, is close to certainty. Since murder (and especially double murder) is itself a rare event, the probability of Clark's innocence was certainly far greater than Meadow's figure suggested.\n\nThe second criticism was that Meadow's calculation had assumed that cot deaths within a single family were statistically independent events, governed by a probability common to the entire affluent non-smoking population. No account had been taken of conditions specific to individual families (such as a hypothesised \"cot death gene\") which might make some more vulnerable than others. The occurrence of one cot-death makes it likely that such conditions exist, and the probability of subsequent deaths is therefore greater than the group average (estimates are mostly in the region of 1:100).\n\nCombining these corrections with estimates of successive murder probabilities by affluent non-smokers, Mathematics Professor Ray Hill found that the probability of Clark's guilt could be as low as 10% (based solely on the fact of two unexplained child deaths, and before any other evidence was considered). In any case, a legal verdict is not to be rendered on the basis of statistics; Hill wrote, \"guilt must be proved on the basis of forensic and other evidence and not on the basis of these statistics alone. My own personal view that she is innocent is based on my subjective assessment of all the aspects\"\n"}
{"id": "1087644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087644", "title": "Mission Zamora", "text": "Mission Zamora\n\nMission Zamora is an integrated land reform and land redistribution program in Venezuela, created in law by the \"Ley de Tierras\" (\"Law of Land\"), part of a package of 49 decrees made by Hugo Chávez in November 2001. The plan is named in honor of Ezequiel Zamora, a 19th-century Venezuelan peasant leader.\n\nVenezuela's rural areas have seen substantial economic disinvestment, governmental neglect, depopulation, and abandonment ever since oil wealth was discovered in the early 20th century; as a consequence Venezuela now has an urbanization rate of more than 85%—among the highest in Latin America—and is, despite its vast tracts of highly fertile soil and arable land, a net food importer. The \"Ley de Tierras\"—\"Law of the Lands\"—was passed by presidential decree in November 2001; it included the creation of Plan Zamora to implement land reforms, including redistribution, in Venezuelan agriculture. The plan was created for several pressing reasons: to stimulate the agricultural sector in Venezuela in order to provide food security to the country (the only net food importer in Latin America) and more economic activity, to break up the concentrated economic power of the \"latifundios\" (75–80% of land owned by 5% of landowners, 2% owned 60% of farmland; 60% of agricultors do not possess any land ) and redistribute wealth to the poor in Venezuela, and to discourage urbanization, which creates heavy burdens on city services in the slums of Caracas and other Venezuelan cities.\n\nUnderutilized or unused private corporate and agricultural estates would now be subject to expropriation after \"fair-market\" compensation was paid to the owners. Inheritable, inalienable, and at times communal land grants were also gifted to small farmers and farmer's collectives. The rationale given for this program was that it would provide incentives for the eventual and gradual repopulation of the countryside and provide \"food security\" for the country by lessening the present dependence on foreign imports. There are three types of land that may be distributed under the program:\nTo date, the Chávez government has only distributed the first two types of land.\n\nThere are three components to the Plan's legal specifications:\n\nVenezuelan citizens between the age of 18 and 25 or who head a family may petition to benefit from the Plan's land redistribution programs. The Plan's participants are first granted a piece of land to homestead and cultivate; if they cultivate it continuously for three years, they are then given official title to the land. This government-recognized title may then be inherited by the participants' relations, but its sale is legally proscribed.\n\nThree institutions were created to carry out the land distribution program: the \"Instituto Nacional de Tierras\" (\"National Land Institute\"), which oversees land tenancy; the \"Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo Rural\" (\"National Rural Development Institute\"), which oversees aid to farmers, including technical expertise and equipment, and the \"Corporación de Abastecimiento y Servicios Agrícolas\" (\"Agricultural Corporation of Supplies and Services\"), to help with marketing. By the end of 2003, 60,000 families had received temporary title to a total of 55,000 km² of land under this plan.\n\nThe taking of private land proved controversial among Venezuelan land owners since the introduction of The Land Law of 2001, with one Chávez ally, former governor of Cojedes state Jhonny Yanez Rangel stating during a speech that \"private property … is a right, but not absolute\", while also placing emphasis on the importance of \"the collective interest\". According to the Gatestone Institute in 2010, Chávez began to intensify land takeovers. The military was often involved in land takeovers, with some allegations of the Bolivarian National Guard violently taking land from families. In 2010, Venezuela tied with Chad and Zimbabwe for 2nd worst property rights in the world according to the International Property Rights Index. By 2014, the International Property Rights Index rated Venezuela as having the worst property rights in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12935452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12935452", "title": "Muesli belt malnutrition", "text": "Muesli belt malnutrition\n\nMuesli belt malnutrition is a term coined by Professor Vincent Marks,\nauthor of the book \"Panic Nation\",\nto describe the supposed phenomenon that parents feeding their children what is seen as an \"extremely healthy\" diet could be depriving their children of essential fats.\n\nA study carried out at Bristol University examining the diets of British toddlers found that such fears were overstated. The study found that while children in the lowest fat group had lower intakes of zinc and vitamin A, children in the highest fat group ingested less iron and vitamin C. Overall the children were not seriously deprived of any essential nutrients, regardless of their diets.\n\n"}
{"id": "47796182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47796182", "title": "Multimedia psychotherapy", "text": "Multimedia psychotherapy\n\nMultimedia psychotherapy is a new form of psychotherapy created by psychoanalyst Domenico A. Nesci (member of the International Psychoanalytic Association) and his son, producer artist Filippo A. Nesci, in Rome, Italy, in 2007.\n\nThe method was originally conceived as a technique to help mourning patients suffering from grief and bereavement.\n\nMultimedia psychotherapy consists in a series of sessions (approximately 5 to 8 different sessions) scheduled in the following order:\nintake, picture sessions, music session, screening session, outcome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "219939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219939", "title": "Mycoplasma", "text": "Mycoplasma\n\nMycoplasma are a mollicute genus of bacteria that lack a cell wall around their cell membranes. This characteristic makes them naturally resistant to many common antibiotics such as penicillin or other beta-lactam antibiotics that target cell wall synthesis. They can be parasitic or saprotrophic. Several species are pathogenic in humans, including \"M. pneumoniae\", which is an important cause of atypical pneumonia and other respiratory disorders, and \"M. genitalium\", which is believed to be involved in pelvic inflammatory diseases. \"Mycoplasma\" species are the smallest bacterial cells yet discovered, can survive without oxygen, and come in various shapes. For example, \"M. genitalium\" is flask-shaped (about 300 x 600 nm), while \"M. pneumoniae\" is more elongated (about 100 x 1000 nm). Hundreds of mycoplasma species infect animals.\nThe term \"mycoplasma\", from the Greek μυκής, \"mykes\" (fungus) and πλάσμα, \"plasma\" (formed), was first used by Albert Bernhard Frank in 1889 to describe an altered state of plant cell cytoplasm resulting from infiltration by fungus-like microorganisms. Julian Nowak later proposed the genus name \"Mycoplasma\" for certain filamentous microorganisms imagined to have both cellular and acellular stages in their lifecycles, which could explain how they were visible with a microscope, but passed through filters impermeable to bacteria.\n\nLater, the name for \"Mycoplasma\" was pleuropneumonia-like organisms (PPLO), broadly referring to organisms similar in colonial morphology and filterability to the causative agent (a mycoplasma) of contagious bovine pleuropneumonia.\n\nOther species of \"Mycoplasma\" other than those listed below have been recovered from humans, but are assumed to have been contracted from animals. These use humans as the primary host:\n\n\"Mycoplasma\" species have been isolated from women with bacterial vaginosis. \"M. genitalium\" is found in women with pelvic inflammatory disease. In addition, infection is associated with increased risk of cervicitis, preterm birth and spontaneous abortion, and infertility. Mycoplasma gentialium has developed resistance to some antibiotics. Mycoplasmae are associated with fetal respiratory distress syndrome, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm infants.\nOver 100 species have been included in the genus \"Mycoplasma\". Microbes of the class Mollicutes, to which Mycoplasma belongs, are parasites or commensals of humans, animals, and plants. The genus \"Mycoplasma\" uses vertebrate and arthropod hosts.\nDietary nitrogen availability has been shown to alter codon bias and genome evolution in \"Mycoplasma\" and \"Phytoplasma\".\n\n\"Due to the lack of a rigid cell wall, Mycoplasmataceae can contort into a broad range of shapes, from round to oblong. They therefore cannot be classified as rods or cocci.\"\n\n\"Mycoplasma\" species are often found in research laboratories as contaminants in cell culture. Mycoplasmal cell culture contamination occurs due to contamination from individuals or contaminated cell culture medium ingredients. \"Mycoplasma\" cells are physically small – less than 1  µm, so are difficult to detect with a conventional microscope.\n\nMycoplasmae may induce cellular changes, including chromosome aberrations, changes in metabolism and cell growth. Severe \"Mycoplasma\" infections may destroy a cell line. Detection techniques include DNA probe, enzyme immunoassays, PCR, plating on sensitive agar and staining with a DNA stain including DAPI or Hoechst.\n\nAn estimated 11 to 15% of U.S. laboratory cell cultures are contaminated with mycoplasma.\nA Corning study showed that half of U.S. scientists did not test for \"Mycoplasma\" contamination in their cell cultures. The study also stated that, in former Czechoslovakia, 100% of cell cultures that were not routinely tested were contaminated while only 2% of those routinely tested were contaminated (study page 6). Since the U.S. contamination rate was based on a study of companies that routinely checked for \"Mycoplasma\", the actual contamination rate may be higher. European contamination rates are higher and that of other countries are higher still (up to 80% of Japanese cell cultures).\nAbout 1% of published Gene Expression Omnibus data may have been compromised. Several antibiotic-containing formulations of antimycoplasmal reagents have been developed over the years.\n\nA chemically synthesized genome of a mycoplasmal cell based entirely on synthetic DNA which can self-replicate has been referred to as \"Mycoplasma laboratorium\".\n\nThe P1 antigen is the primary virulence factor of mycoplasma. P1 is a membrane associated protein that allows adhesion to epithelial cells. The P1 receptor is also expressed on erythrocytes which can lead to autoantibody agglutination from mycobacteria infection. Several \"Mycoplasma\" species can cause disease, including \"M. pneumoniae\", which is an important cause of atypical pneumonia (formerly known as \"walking pneumonia\"), and \"M. genitalium\", which has been associated with pelvic inflammatory diseases. Mycoplasma infections in humans are associated with skin eruptions in 17% of cases.\n\n\"Mycoplasma\" and \"Ureaplasma\" species are not part of the normal vaginal flora. Some \"Mycoplasma\" species are spread through sexual contact.\n\nSome mycoplasmae have a negative effect on fertility. \"M. hominis\" causes \"male sterility/Genitals inflammation\" in humans.\n\nLow birth-weight, preterm infants are susceptible to \"Mycoplasma\" infections.\n\nSeveral species of \"Mycoplasma\" are frequently detected in different types of cancer cells. These species are:\n\n\nThe majority of these mycoplasmae have shown a strong correlation to malignant transformation in mammalian cells \"in vitro\".\n\nThe presence of \"Mycoplasma\" was first reported in samples of cancer tissue in the 1960s. Since then, several studies tried to find and prove the connection between \"Mycoplasma\" and cancer, as well as how the bacterium might be involved in the formation of cancer. Several studies have shown that cells that are chronically infected with the bacteria go through a multistep transformation. The changes caused by chronic mycoplasmal infections occur gradually and are both morphological and genetic. The first visual sign of infection is when the cells gradually shift from their normal form to sickle-shaped. They also become hyperchromatic due to an increase of DNA in the nucleus of the cells. In later stages, the cells lose the need for a solid support to grow and proliferate, as well as the normal contact-dependent inhibition cells.\n\nKaryotypic changes related to mycoplasma infections\n\nCells infected with \"Mycoplasma\" for an extended period of time show significant chromosomal abnormalities. These include the addition of chromosomes, the loss of entire chromosomes, partial loss of chromosomes, and chromosomal translocation. All of these genetic abnormalities may contribute to the process of malignant transformation. Chromosomal translocation and extra chromosomes help create abnormally high activity of certain proto-oncogenes, which caused by these genetic abnormalities and include those encoding c-myc, HRAS, and vav. The activity of proto-oncogenes is not the only cellular function that is affected; tumour suppressor genes are affected by the chromosomal changes induced by mycoplasma, as well. Partial or complete loss of chromosomes causes the loss of important genes involved in the regulation of cell proliferation. Two genes whose activities are markedly decreased during chronic infections with mycoplasma are the Rb and the p53 tumour suppressor genes. Another possible mechanism of carcinogenesis is RAC1 activation by a small GTPase-like protein fragment of Mycoplasma. A major feature that differentiates mycoplasmas from other carcinogenic pathogens is that the mycoplasmas do not cause the cellular changes by insertion of their own genetic material into the host cell. The exact mechanism by which the bacterium causes the changes is not yet known.\n\n\nThe malignant transformation induced by mycoplasmae is also different from that caused by other pathogens in that the process is reversible. The state of reversal is, however, only possible up to a certain point during the infection. The window of time when reversibility is possible varies greatly; it depends primarily on the \"Mycoplasma\" involved. In the case of \"M. fermentans\", the transformation is reversible until around week 11 of infection and starts to become irreversible between weeks 11 and 18. If the bacteria are killed using antibiotics (i.e. ciprofloxacin or Clarithromycin) before the irreversible stage, the infected cells should return to normal.\n\nEpidemiologic, genetic, and molecular studies suggest infection and inflammation initiate certain cancers, including those of the prostate. \"M. genitalium\" and \"M. hyorhinis\" induce malignant phenotype in benign human prostate cells (BPH-1) that were not tumorigenic after 19 weeks of exposure.\n\nColon cancer: In a study to understand the effects of \"Mycoplasma\" contamination on the quality of cultured human colon cancer cells, a positive correlation was found between the number of\" M. hyorhinis\" cells present in the sample and the percentage of CD133-positive cells (a glycoprotein with an unknown function).\n\nGastric cancer: Strong evidence indicates the infection of\" M. hyorhinis\" contributes to the development of cancer within the stomach and increases the likelihood of malignant cancer cell development.\n\nLung cancer: Studies on lung cancer have supported the belief that more than a coincidental positive correlation exists between the appearance of\" Mycoplasma\" strains in patients and the infection with tumorigenesis.\n\nProstate cancer: p37, a protein encoded for by \"M. hyorhinis\", has been found to promote the invasiveness of prostate cancer cells. The protein also causes the growth, morphology, and the gene expression of the cells to change, causing them to become a more aggressive phenotype.\n\nRenal cancer: Patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) exhibited a significantly high amount of Mycoplasma sp. compared with the healthy control group. This suggests \"Mycoplasma\" may play a role in the development of RCC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30854359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30854359", "title": "National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine", "text": "National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine\n\nThe National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine (NRICM; ) is a research center responsible for research, experimental and development issues of Chinese medicine. It is located in the Beitou District, Taipei, Taiwan and run under the guidance of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of China. It is Taiwan's largest Chinese herbal medicine research center.\n\nIn March 1956, the Executive Yuan passed the Chinese Medicine Educational Law Bill to set up a Chinese medicine school and establish a research organization. In 1957, the preparatory office of the Chinese Medicine Research Institute was established in Taipei. The National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine was finally established formally on 22 October 1963.\n\n\nThe research center is accessible within walking distance north of Shipai Station of Taipei Metro.\n\n"}
{"id": "14417270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417270", "title": "Norwegian Food Safety Authority", "text": "Norwegian Food Safety Authority\n\nNorwegian Food Safety Authority () is a Norwegian government agency responsible for safe food and drinking water, and works within the fields of human, plant, fish and animal health as well as environmentally friendly production and ethically acceptable farming of animals and fish . Other duties are related to cosmetics, medicines and inspection of animal health personnel.\n\nMain offices are located in Oslo while there are 63 district and eight regional offices. There are also three national competence centers: fish and seafood in Bergen, plants and vegetarian foods in Ås, and animals and carnivore food in Sandnes. The agency was created in 2003 when four government agencies (the States Food Authority, the Fisheries Directories Seafood Control, the States Animal Authority and the Norwegian Agricultural Inspection Service) were merged with 69 municipal food authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "790153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=790153", "title": "Occupational hygiene", "text": "Occupational hygiene\n\nOccupational hygiene (United States: industrial hygiene (IH)) is the anticipation, recognition, evaluation, control, and confirmation of protection from hazards at work that may result in injury, illness, or affect the well being of workers. These hazards or stressors are typically divided into the categories biological, chemical, physical, ergonomic and psychosocial. The risk of a health effect from a given stressor is a function of the hazard multiplied by the exposure to the individual or group. For chemicals, the hazard can be understood by the dose response profile most often based on toxicological studies or models. Occupational hygienists work closely with toxicologists (see Toxicology) for understanding chemical hazards, physicists (see Physics) for physical hazards, and physicians and microbiologists for biological hazards (see Microbiology Tropical medicine Infection) Environmental and occupational hygienists are considered experts in exposure science and exposure risk management. Depending on an individual's type of job, a hygienist will apply their exposure science expertise for the protection of workers, consumers and/or communities.\n\nThe British Occupational Hygiene Society (BOHS) defines that \"occupational hygiene is about the prevention of ill-health from work, through recognizing, evaluating and controlling the risks\". The International Occupational Hygiene Association (IOHA) refers to occupational hygiene as \"the discipline of anticipating, recognizing, evaluating and controlling health hazards in the working environment with the objective of protecting worker health and well-being and safeguarding the community at large.\" The term \"occupational hygiene\" (used in the UK and Commonwealth countries as well as much of Europe) is synonymous with \"industrial hygiene\" (used in the US, Latin America, and other countries that received initial technical support or training from US sources). The term \"industrial hygiene\" traditionally stems from industries with construction, mining or manufacturing and \"occupational hygiene\" refers to all types of industry such as those listed for \"industrial hygiene\" as well as financial and support services industries and refers to \"work\", \"workplace\" and \"place of work\" in general. \"Environmental hygiene\" addresses similar issues to \"occupational hygiene\", but is likely to be about broad industry or broad issues affecting the local community, broader society, region or country.\n\nThe profession of occupational hygiene uses strict and rigorous scientific methodology and often requires professional judgment based on experience and education in determining the potential for hazardous exposure risks in workplace and environmental studies. These aspects of occupational hygiene can often be referred to as the \"art\" of occupational hygiene and is used in a similar sense to the \"art\" of medicine. In fact \"occupational hygiene\" is both an aspect of preventive medicine and in particular occupational medicine, in that its goal is to prevent industrial disease, using the science of risk management, exposure assessment and industrial safety. Ultimately professionals seek to implement \"safe\" systems, procedures or methods to be applied in the workplace or to the environment.\n\nOccupational hygienists have been involved historically with changing the perception of society about the nature and extent of hazards and preventing exposures in the workplace and communities. Many occupational hygienists work day-to-day with industrial situations that require control or improvement to the workplace situation however larger social issues affecting whole industries have occurred in the past e.g. since 1900, asbestos exposures that have affected the lives of tens of thousands of people. Occupational hygienists have become more engaged in understanding and managing exposure risks to consumers from products with new regulations such as REACh (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals).\n\nMore recent issues affecting broader society are, for example in 1976, legionnaires' disease or legionellosis. More recently again in the 1990s radon and in the 2000s the effects of mold from indoor air quality situations in the home and at work. In the later part of the 2000s concern has been raised about the health effects of nanoparticles.\n\nMany of these issues have required the coordination over a number of years of a number of medical and para professionals in detecting and then characterizing the nature of the issue, both in terms of the hazard and in terms of the risk to the workplace and ultimately to society. This has involved occupational hygienists in research, collection of data and to develop suitable and satisfactory control methodologies.\n\nThe occupational hygienist may be involved with the assessment and control of physical, chemical, biological or environmental hazards in the workplace or community that could cause injury or disease. Physical hazards may include noise, temperature extremes, illumination extremes, ionizing or non-ionizing radiation, and ergonomics. Chemical hazards related to dangerous goods or hazardous substances are frequently investigated by occupational hygienists. Other related areas including indoor air quality (IAQ) and safety may also receive the attention of the occupational hygienist. Biological hazards may stem from the potential for legionella exposure at work or the investigation of biological injury or effects at work, such as dermatitis may be investigated.\n\nAs part of the investigation process, the occupational hygienist may be called upon to communicate effectively regarding the nature of the hazard, the potential for risk, and the appropriate methods of control. Appropriate controls are selected from the hierarchy of control: by elimination, substitution, engineering, administration and personal protective equipment (PPE) to control the hazard or eliminate the risk. Such controls may involve recommendations as simple as appropriate PPE such as a 'basic' particulate dust mask to occasionally designing dust extraction ventilation systems, work places or management systems to manage people and programs for the preservation of health and well-being of those who enter a workplace.\n\nExamples of occupational hygiene include:\n\n\nAlthough there are many aspects to occupational hygiene work the most known and sought after is in determining or estimating potential or actual exposures to hazards. For many chemicals and physical hazards, occupational exposure limits have been derived using toxicological, epidemiological and medical data allowing hygienists to reduce the risks of health effects by implementing the \"Hierarchy of Hazard Controls\". Several methods can be applied in assessing the workplace or environment for exposure to a known or suspected hazard. Occupational hygienists do not rely on the accuracy of the equipment or method used but in knowing with certainty and precision the limits of the equipment or method being used and the error or variance given by using that particular equipment or method. Well known methods for performing occupational exposure assessments can be found in \"A Strategy for Assessing and Managing Occupational Exposures, Third Edition Edited by Joselito S. Ignacio and William H. Bullock\".\n\nThe main steps outlined for assessing and managing occupational exposures:\nThe first step in understanding health risks related to exposures requires the collection of \"basic characterization\" information from available sources. A traditional method applied by occupational hygienists to initially survey a workplace or environment is used to determine both the types and possible exposures from hazards (e.g. noise, chemicals, radiation). The walk-through survey can be targeted or limited to particular hazards such as silica dust, or noise, to focus attention on control of all hazards to workers. A full walk-through survey is frequently used to provide information on establishing a framework for future investigations, prioritizing hazards, determining the requirements for measurement and establishing some immediate control of potential exposures. The Health Hazard Evaluation Program from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health is an example of an industrial hygiene walk-through survey. Other sources of basic characterization information include worker interviews, observing exposure tasks, material safety data sheets, workforce scheduling, production data, equipment and maintenance schedules to identify potential exposure agents and people possibly exposed.\n\nThe information that needs to be gathered from sources should apply to the specific type of work from which the hazards can come from. As mentioned previously, examples of these sources include interviews with people who have worked in the field of the hazard, history and analysis of past incidents, and official reports of work and the hazards encountered. Of these, the personnel interviews may be the most critical in identifying undocumented practices, events, releases, hazards and other relevant information. Once the information is gathered from a collection of sources, it is recommended for these to be digitally archived (to allow for quick searching) and to have a physical set of the same information in order for it to be more accessible. One innovative way to display the complex historical hazard information is with a historical hazards identification map, which distills the hazard information into an easy to use graphical format.\n\nAn occupational hygienist may use one or a number of commercially available electronic measuring devices to measure noise, vibration, ionizing and non-ionizing radiation, dust, solvents, gases, and so on. Each device is often specifically designed to measure a specific or particular type of contaminant. Such devices are often subject to multiple interferences. Electronic devices need to be calibrated before and after use to ensure the accuracy of the measurements taken and often require a system of certifying the precision of the instrument.\nNuisance dust is considered to be the total dust in air including inhalable and respirable fractions.\n\nVarious dust sampling methods exist that are internationally recognised. Inhalable dust is determined using the modern equivalent of the Institute of Occupational Medicine (IOM) MRE 113A monitor (see section on workplace exposure, measurement & modelling). Inhalable dust is considered to be dust of less than 100 micrometers aerodynamic equivalent diameter (AED) that enters through the nose and or mouth. See Lungs\n\nRespirable dust is sampled using a cyclone dust sampler design to sample for a specific fraction of dust AED at a set flow rate. The respirable dust fraction is dust that enters the 'deep lung' and is considered to be less than 10 micrometers AED.\n\nNuisance, inhalable and respirable dust fractions are all sampled using a constant volumetric pump for a specific sampling period. By knowing the mass of the sample collected and the volume of air sampled a concentration for the fraction sampled can be given in milligrams (mg) per metre cubed (m3). From such samples the amount of inhalable or respirable dust can be determined and compared to the relevant occupational exposure limits.\n\nBy use of inhalable, respirable or other suitable sampler (7 hole, 5 hole, et cetera) these dust sampling methods can also used to determine metal exposure in the air. This requires collection of the sample on a methyl-cellulose ester (MCE) filter and acid digestion of the collection media in the laboratory followed by measuring metal concentration though an atomic absorption (or emission) spectrophotometry. Both the UK Health and Safety Laboratory and NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods have specific methodologies for a broad range of metals in air found in industrial processing (smelting, foundries, et cetera).\n\nA further method exists for the determination of asbestos, fibreglass, synthetic mineral fibre and ceramic mineral fibre dust in air. This is the membrane filter method (MFM) and requires the collection of the dust on a grided filter for estimation of exposure by the counting of 'conforming' fibres in 100 fields through a microscope. Results are quantified on the basis of number of fibres per millilitre of air (f/ml). Many countries strictly regulate the methodology applied to the MFM.\n\nTwo types of chemically absorbent tubes are used to sample for a wide range of chemical substances. Traditionally a chemical absorbent 'tube' (a glass or stainless steel tube of between 2 and 10 mm internal diameter) filled with very fine absorbent silica (hydrophilic) or carbon, such as coconut charcoal (lypophylic), is used in a sampling line where air is drawn through the absorbent material for between four hours (minimum workplace sample) to 24 hours (environmental sample) period. The hydrophilic material readily absorbs water-soluble chemical and the lypophylic material absorbs non water-soluble materials. The absorbent material is then chemically or physically extracted and measurements performed using various gas chromatograph or mass spectrometry methods. These absorbent tube methods have the advantage of being usable for a wide range of potential contaminates. However, they are relatively expensive methods, are time consuming and require significant expertise in sampling and chemical analysis. A frequent complaint of workers is in having to wear the sampling pump (up to 1 kg) for several days of work to provide adequate data for the required statistical certainty determination of the exposure.\n\nIn the last few decades, advances have been made in 'passive' badge technology. These samplers can now be purchased to measure one chemical (e.g. formaldehyde) or a chemical type (e.g. ketones) or a broad spectrum of chemicals (e.g. solvents). They are relatively easy to set up and use. However, considerable cost can still be incurred in analysis of the 'badge'. They weigh 20 to 30 grams and workers do not complain about their presence. Unfortunately 'badges' may not exist for all types of workplace sampling that may be required and the charcoal or silica method may sometimes have to be applied.\n\nFrom the sampling method, results are expressed in milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m3) or parts per million (PPM) and compared to the relevant occupational exposure limits.\n\nIt is a critical part of the exposure determination that the method of sampling for the specific contaminate exposure is directly linked to the exposure standard used. Many countries regulate both the exposure standard, the method used to determine the exposure and the methods to be used for chemical or other analysis of the samples collected.\nThe hierarchy of control defines the approach used to reduce exposure risks protecting workers and communities. These methods include elimination, substitution, engineering controls (isolation or ventilation), administrative controls and personal protective equipment. Occupational hygienists, engineers, maintenance, management and employees should all be consulted for selecting and designing the most effective and efficient controls based on the hierarchy of control.\n\nThe development of industrial hygiene societies originated in the United States, beginning with the first convening of members for the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists in 1938, and the formation of the American Industrial Hygiene Association in 1939. In the United Kingdom, the British Occupational Hygiene Society started in 1953. Through the years, professional occupational societies have formed in many different countries, leading to the formation of the International Occupational Hygiene Association in 1987, in order to promote and develop occupational hygiene worldwide through the member organizations. The IOHA has grown to 29 member organizations, representing over 20,000 occupational hygienists worldwide, with representation from countries present in every continent.\n\nThere are several academic journals specifically focused on publishing studies and research in the occupational health field. The \"Journal of Occupational and Environmental Hygiene\" (JOEH) has been published jointly since 2004 by the American Industrial Hygiene Association and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, replacing the former \"American Industrial Hygiene Association Journal\" and \"Applied Occupational & Environmental Hygiene\" journals. Another seminal occupational hygiene journal would be \"The Annals of Occuapational Hygiene,\" published by the British Occupational Hygiene Society since 1958. Further, The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health maintains a searchable bibliographic database (NIOSHTIC-2) of occupational safety and health publications, documents, grant reports, and other communication products.\nExamples of occupational hygiene careers include:\n\nThe basis of the technical knowledge of occupational hygiene is from competent training in the following areas of science and management.\nHowever, it is not rote knowledge that identifies a competent occupational hygienist. There is an \"art\" to applying the technical principles in a manner that provides a reasonable solution for workplace and environmental issues. In effect an experienced \"mentor\", who has experience in occupational hygiene is required to show a new occupational hygienist how to apply the learned scientific and management knowledge in the workplace and to the environment issue to satisfactorily resolve the problem.\n\nTo be a professional occupational hygienist, experience in as wide a practice as possible is required to demonstrate knowledge in areas of occupational hygiene. This is difficult for \"specialists\" or those who practice in narrow subject areas. Limiting experience to individual subject like asbestos remediation, confined spaces, indoor air quality, or lead abatement, or learning only through a textbook or “review course” can be a disadvantage when required to demonstrate competence in other areas of occupational hygiene.\n\nInformation presented in Wikipedia can be considered to be only an outline of the requirements for professional occupational hygiene training. This is because the actual requirements in any country, state or region may vary due to educational resources available, industry demand or regulatory mandated requirements.\n\nDuring 2010, the Occupational Hygiene Training Association (OHTA) through sponsorship provided by the IOHA initiated a training scheme for those with an interest in or those requiring training in occupational hygiene. These training modules can be downloaded and used freely. The available subject modules (Basic Principles in Occupational Hygiene, Health Effects of Hazardous Substances, Measurement of Hazardous Substances, Thermal Environment, Noise, Asbestos, Control, Ergonomics) are aimed at the ‘foundation’ and ‘intermediate’ levels in Occupational Hygiene. Although the modules can be used freely without supervision attendance at an accredited training course is encouraged. These training modules are available from OH Learning.com\n\nAcademic programs offering industrial hygiene bachelor's or master's degrees in United States may apply to the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) to have their program accredited. As of October 1, 2006, 27 institutions have accredited their industrial hygiene programs. Accreditation is not available for Doctoral programs.\n\nIn the U.S. the training of IH professionals is supported by National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health through their NIOSH Education and Research Centers.\n\nIn 2005, the Australian Institute of Occupational Hygiene (AIOH) has accredited professional occupational hygienist through a certification scheme. Occupational Hygienists in Australian certified through this scheme are entitled to use the phrase Certified Occupational Hygienist (COH) as part of their qualifications.\n\nPractitioners who successfully meet specific education and work-experience requirements, and pass a written examination administered by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH) are authorized to use the term Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) or Certified Associate Industrial Hygienist (CAIH). Both of these terms have been codified into law in many states in the United States to identify minimum qualifications of individuals having oversight over certain activities that may affect employee and general public health.\n\nAfter the initial certification, the CIH or CAIH maintains their certification by meeting on-going requirements for ethical behavior, education, and professional activities (e.g., active practice, technical committees, publishing, teaching).\n\nABIH certification examinations are offered during a spring and fall testing window each year at more than 400 locations worldwide.\n\nThe CIH designation is the most well known and recognized industrial hygiene designation throughout the world. There are approximately 6800 CIHs in the world making ABIH the largest industrial hygiene certification organization. The CAIH certification program was discontinued in 2006. Those who were certified as a CAIH retain their certification through ongoing certification maintenance. People who are currently certified by the ABIH can be found in a public roster.\n\nThe ABIH is a recognized certification board by the International Occupational Hygiene Association (IOHA). The CIH certification has been accredited internationally by the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC 17024) (see ANSI). In the United States, the CIH has been accredited by the Council of Engineering and Scientific Specialty Boards [CESB].\n\nThe Association of Professional Industrial Hygienists, Inc. (APIH) was established in 1994 to offer credentialing to industrial hygienists who meet the education and experience requirements found in Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 62, Chapter 40. APIH adopted the Tennessee Code as its basis for credentialing because it was the first legal definition in the United States of an industrial hygienist in terms of education and experience. The APIH Registration Committee investigates and verifies, through electronic means or correspondence, both educational and experience accomplishments claimed by each applicant for registration. The Committee determines the appropriate level of registration, Registered Industrial Hygienist or Registered Professional Industrial Hygienist, and then authorizes the registration certificate to be issued.\n\nIn Canada, a practitioner who successfully completes a written test and an interview administered by the Canadian Registration Board of Occupational Hygienists can be recognized as a Registered Occupational Hygienist (ROH) or Registered Occupational Hygiene Technician (ROHT). There is also designation to be recognized as a Canadian Registered Safety Professional (CRSP).\n\nThe Faculty of Occupational Hygiene, part of the British Occupational Hygiene Society, represents the interests of professional occupational hygienists.\n\nMembership of the Faculty of Occupational Hygiene is confined to BOHS members who hold a recognized professional qualification in occupational hygiene.\n\nThere are three grades of Faculty membership:\n\nAll Faculty members participate in a Continuous Professional Development (CPD) scheme designed to maintain a high level of current awareness and knowledge in occupational hygiene.\n\nIndian Society of Industrial hygiene was formed in 1981 at Chennai India. Subsequently, its secretariat was shifted to Kanpur. The society has registered about 400 members, about 90 of whom life members. The society publishes a newsletter \"Industrial Hygiene Link\". The current address of the secretary of the society is Shyam Singh Gautam, Secretary, Indian Society of Industrial Hygiene, 11, Shakti Nagar, Rama Devi, Kanpur 2008005 Mobile number 8005187037.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19615788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19615788", "title": "Ong Yoke Lin", "text": "Ong Yoke Lin\n\nTun Haji Omar Ong Yoke Lin (; 23 July 1917 – 1 July 2010) was a Malaysian politician, diplomat and businessman. He was a founding member of the Malaysian Chinese Association, and was a key figure in the country's road to independence. Ong served various positions in the government of Malaya and Malaysia, as a Cabinet minister and ambassador.\n\nHe was a Chinese Muslim convert.\n\nBorn Ong Yoke Lin on 23 July 1917 in Kuala Lumpur, he attended Pudu Girls' English School and later Victoria Institution, where he was contemporaries of, among others, Yahya Abdul Razak, Lee Siew Choh, Yaacob Latiff and Mahmood Ambak, the father-in-law of Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, the fifth Prime Minister of Malaysia. He passed the London Matriculation in 1935 and trained as a chartered accountant. He intended to read law, but his studies were put on hold by the Japanese occupation of Malaya.\n\nOmar helped found and joined the Malayan Chinese Association (MCA) in 1949. As a prominent Chinese leader, Ong was selected by the British High Commissioner as a member of the then fully appointed Selangor State Council and Federal Legislative Council.\n\nIn 1952, he and Yahya Abdul Razak mooted the idea of an alliance between MCA and the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) for the Kuala Lumpur Municipal Council elections. This was the precursor to the formal Alliance Party. He contested and won a seat in that election, and was chosen as leader of the Alliance Party in the Municipal Council.\n\nOmar went on to become MCA vice-president and the Member of Parliament for Hulu Selangor.\n\nIn 1955, the Alliance Party won the first ever elections to the Federal Legislative Council under the leadership of Tunku Abdul Rahman. Omar was appointed Minister for Post and Telecoms in the Tunku's first Cabinet. Following the overwhelming support shown for the Alliance Party during the elections and the forming of the government, the Tunku led the Merdeka Delegation to London which successfully negotiated independence from the British. Omar joined the Tunku on his second trip to London in April 1957 to finalise the newly drafted Constitution of Malaya.\n\nOn 31 August 1957, Omar was appointed to the first Rahman cabinet of the newly independent Federation of Malaya, holding the Labour and Social Welfare portfolio. In 1959, he became Health Minister.\n\nDuring negotiations to unite Malaya, Singapore, Sarawak and British North Borneo (later known as Sabah), Ong was Ambassador to the United Nations as Malaya focused on diplomacy amid regional tensions with Indonesia (\"Konfrontasi\").\n\nFollowing the proclamation of the Federation of Malaysia, Ong continued to serve in the Cabinet as Minister without Portfolio until 1973. He served concurrently as High Commissioner to Canada in 1966 and as Ambassador to Brazil from 1967 to 1972.\n\nIn 1973, he was elected President of the Dewan Negara and served until 1980.\n\nTun Omar was married to Toh Puan Dr. Aishah and had three children. He converted to Islam in 1961.\n\nOng died on 1 July 2010 due to old age. He was 92. His body was laid to rest at Makam Pahlawan near Masjid Negara, Kuala Lumpur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4177079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4177079", "title": "Oral torus", "text": "Oral torus\n\nAn oral torus is a lesion made of compact bone and occurs along the palate or the mandible inside the mouth. The palatal torus or \"torus palatinus\" occurs along the palate, close to the midline, whereas the mandibular torus or \"torus mandibularis\" occur along the lingual side of the mandible.\n\nOccurrences of tori are more frequent in women than in men. Tori are associated with adulthood and rarely appear before the age of 15. The palatal version of tori have a higher occurrence in Native American and Inuit populations.\n\nTreatment is not necessary unless they become an obstruction to chewing or prosthetic appliances.\n\n"}
{"id": "57387680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57387680", "title": "Pharmaceutical Society of Ghana", "text": "Pharmaceutical Society of Ghana\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Society of Ghana was founded on December 19, 1935 out of the former Gold Coast Pharmacists and Druggists Union and the Chemists Defense Association which had existed before 1929. The Society was founded by a group of pharmacists led by the late Mr. William Ayiah Hansen, Hansdrug College of Pharmacy, Hansdrug Hall, Accra. He did so with the support of the Honorable Dr. D. Duff, the then Director of Medical Services. William Ayiah Hansen was then the Organizing Secretary and Registrar of the Society. Before 1935, the predominant Pharmacists groups in Ghana were two associations, Pharmacists affiliated themselves to these groups according to their bonding or non-bonding to government service. The private pharmacists groups were led by Mr. William Ayiah Hansen.\n\nThe Society has branches in all the Regions of Ghana except the Northern and Upper Regions which form one Branch. There are Hospital, General Practice and Industrial, Pharmacists Associations. The Ghana Pharmaceutical Students Association is affiliated to the Society.\n\n\nThe Society is tasked with the following:\n\nThe idea of a crest for the Society was proposed in 1962 but it was not until February 1971 when a design was ordered. The crest as it is today was accepted as the symbol of the Society on August 5, 1972.\n\n\nBy virtue of Section 9, Act 64 of Ghana, every person registered as a pharmacist in Ghana automatically becomes a member of the Society. Membership had until the promulgation of Act 64 of Ghana been optional.\nAt its inception, membership was twenty six. In 1961 after the passage of Act 64, a new register opened. Membership then increased significantly to nearly four hundred and twenty. By December 1984, the number of pharmacists registered had reached eight hundred and five. Membership certificates were introduced in 1972 and have been available since then. The designation of membership is MPSG. Associate membership is open to persons who have obtained their recognizable academic qualifications and are undergoing their registration process or pursuing postgraduate studies.\n\nThe body responsible for the day-to-day management of the affairs of the Society. Consists of the following member:\n\nConsists of members elected by the Society at a biennial conference, alongside the President, Vice-President, the National Treasurer, the General Secretary, the Assistant General Secretary, the Editor of the Pharmaceutical Journal and two others\n\nTwo members nominated by the Minister of Health (Ghana) under Section 9 (5) of Act 64. The Director of Pharmaceutical Services and the Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), Kumasi, Ghana.\n\nTwo from Greater Accra Region, one each from Eastern, Central, Western, Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Volta Regions and one from Northern and Upper East/Upper West Regions which form one Branch\n\nThe immediate past President of the Society\n\nThis is the head-office of the Society and the seat of the current president and governing body. It was initially located at Selwyn Market Street, Accra. In 1956, a new office with a physical address was inaugurated at Knustford Avenue, near the Timber Market, Accra. Since 1972 the Secretariat has been moved four times. Now it is within the Social Advance Institute building near the Greater Accra Regional Administration.\nOn July 17, 1966 a collective decision was made to build a National Headquarters with the help of a fund launched by the late General Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka. A Building committee was set-up by Council but unfortunately up to date, the building has not taken off. The Secretariat is currently being run by the General Secretary, his Assistant and aided by four staff members led by an administrative secretary.\n\nFive members had distinguished themselves in the service of the Society and practice of the pharmacy profession in Ghana\n\nThe Society now has eighteen Fellows including two members of the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain\n\n\nFounding member\nMember since 1962\nMember of African Pharmaceutical Forum\nMember of West African Postgraduate College of Pharmacists\nFounding member of the Commonwealth Pharmaceutical Association\nFounding and active member of the Association of Recognized Professional Bodies\n\nThe Society is represented on several government committees concerned with Drugs and Health Administration in Ghana.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9394423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9394423", "title": "Quiteria", "text": "Quiteria\n\nSaint Quiteria (; ; ; ; ; \"Kittēriyammāḷ\") was a fifth-century virgin martyr about whom nothing is certain except her name and her cult. She appears in the \"Roman Martyrology\", but not in any other ancient calendars (such as the \"Martyrologium Hieronymianum\").\n\n\"Quiteria\" may be derived from \"Kythere\" (or \"Kyteria\", \"Kuteria\"), a title applied to the Phoenician goddess Astarte which meant \"the red one\", or from (the possibly related name) \"Cytherea\", an epithet of the Greek goddess Aphrodite because she was born on the island of Kythira. Such origins of the name suggest to some that Quiteria is fictional.\n\nHer legend states that she was the daughter of a Gallaecian prince. Her father wanted her to marry and renounce Christianity. Quiteria fled and her father's men found her at Aire-sur-l'Adour, in Gascony. She was beheaded on the spot. Her sister Saint Libérate also suffered the same fate, was beheaded in the forest of Montus and lies in a 14th-century sarcophagus in the fortified church of Saint Jean Baptiste, Mazéres 32 km from her sister Quiteria in Aire-sur-l'Adour.\n\nPortuguese religious traditions state that Saint Quiteria was the leader of the \"Nonuplet Sisters,\" who were named Eumelia (Euphemia); Liberata (Virgeforte); Gema (Marinha, Margarida); Genebra; Germana; Basilissa; Marica; and Vitoria (Victoria). These were born in Minho to an important Roman military official. Their mother, disgusted at the fact that she had given birth to nine daughters all at once as if she were a common peasant (or an animal), ordered a maid to take them to a river to drown them. Their father was unaware of their birth.\n\nDisobeying her mistress, however, the maid gave the girls over to some local women who brought them up. As adult women, they opposed the worship of Roman gods and were brought before their father, who recognized them as his daughters. Their father wanted them to marry Roman officers or other suitors. The nonuplets refused and were imprisoned in a tower. However, they escaped and liberated all of their other prisoners. They subsequently waged a guerrilla war in the mountains against the Roman Empire.\n\nQuiteria was caught and beheaded. Her sister Euphemia, unable to escape from the soldiers who pursued her, threw herself from a cliff situated today in the Peneda-Gerês National Park (it is called today \"Penedo da Santa\", Cliff of the Saint). A rock opened up and swallowed her and on the spot there sprang up a hot spring.\n\nThis is a legend that closely follows that of the Galician Saint Marina, who is said to have been one of nine sisters. (citation needed)\n\nPatron Saint of rabies\n\nOther Portuguese traditions make her a native of \"Bracara\" (Braga, Portugal) who was decapitated and thrown into the sea. This legend states that she emerged from the water with her head in her hands, and is thus sometimes represented as such. However, she is not considered one of the Cephalophores because there is no written record to support this. Her patronage against rabies stems from the fact that her legend states that she held two rabid dogs at bay with the power of her saintly voice. A festival in her honor was first held at Tui, Galicia in 1688 after a proclamation was made by its bishop.\n\n"}
{"id": "1452238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452238", "title": "Røssvatnet", "text": "Røssvatnet\n\nRøssvatnet () is a lake and reservoir in the municipalities of Hattfjelldal and Hemnes in Nordland county, Norway. It has been the site of human occupation since the Stone Age. Its area of makes it the second largest lake in Norway by surface area. Without the dam which has regulated the lake since 1957, it would be and the third largest lake in Norway. Its depth is , its volume is estimated at about , and its surface elevation is above sea level.\n\n"}
{"id": "5317805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5317805", "title": "Saline flush", "text": "Saline flush\n\nA saline flush is the method of clearing intravenous lines (IVs), Central Lines or Arterial Lines of any medicine or other perishable liquids to keep the lines (tubes) and entry area clean and sterile. Typically in flushing an intravenous cannula, a 5ml syringe of saline is emptied into the medication port of the cannula's connecting hub after insertion of the cannula. Blood left in the cannula or hub can lead to clots forming and blocking the cannula. Flushing is required before a drip is connected to ensure that the IV is still patent.\n\nFlushing is also used after medications are delivered by the medication port to ensure all the drug is delivered fully. If multiple medications are given through the same line flushing can be used in between drugs to ensure that the medicines won't react. This is especially important if complex regimes of intravenous medication is used such as in chemotherapy.\n\nFlushing with saline should be painless if the cannula is in its proper place, although if the saline is not warmed there may be a cold sensation running up the vein. A painful flush may indicate tissuing or phlebitis and is an indication that the cannula should be relocated.\n\nSolutions other than normal saline may be used. Heparinised saline may be used in flushing arterial lines, to prevent clotting and blockage of the line.\n\nWhen syringes are used to perform a saline flush, it is important that the syringe not be reused for multiple patients, even though direct contact with the patient does not normally occur.\n"}
{"id": "21860254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21860254", "title": "Secondary sclerosing cholangitis", "text": "Secondary sclerosing cholangitis\n\nSecondary sclerosing cholangitis (SSC) is a chronic cholestatic liver disease. It is an aggressive and rare disease with complex and multiple causes. It is characterized by inflammation, fibrosis, destruction of the biliary tree and biliary cirrhosis. It can be treated with minor interventions, antibiotics, and monitoring, or with more serious cases, surgery, endoscopic intervention, and liver transplantation. \n\nSSC is thought to develop as a consequence of known injuries or pathological processes of the biliary tree, such as biliary obstruction, surgical trauma to the bile duct, or ischemic injury to the biliary tree. Secondary causes of SSC include intraductal stone disease, surgical or blunt abdominal trauma, intra-arterial chemotherapy, and recurrent pancreatitis. It has been clearly demonstrated sclerosing cholangitis can develop after an episode of severe bacterial cholangitis. Also it was suggested that it can result from insult to the biliary tree by obstructive cholangitis secondary to choledocholithiasis, surgical damage, trauma, vascular insults, parasites, or congenital fibrocystic disorders. Additional causes of secondary SC are toxic, due to chemical agents or drugs.\n\nThe diagnosis of SSC requires the exclusion of secondary causes of sclerosing cholangitis and recognition of associated conditions that may potentially imitate its classic cholangiographic features. It is morphologically similar to primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) but originates from a known pathological process. Its clinical and cholangiographic features may mimic PSC, yet its natural history may be more favorable if recognition is prompt and appropriate therapy is introduced. Sclerosing cholangitis in critically ill patients, however, is associated with rapid disease progression and poor outcome. Serologic testing, radiological imaging and histological analysis can help diagnose SSC.\n"}
{"id": "19365769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19365769", "title": "Smoking in New Zealand", "text": "Smoking in New Zealand\n\nThe use of tobacco for smoking in New Zealand has been subjected to government regulation for a number of decades. On 10 December 2004, New Zealand became the third country in the world to make all indoor workplaces including bars and restaurants smoke-free.\n\nThe number of cigarettes available for consumption, a statistical measure that reflects sales, has generally been decreasing since they peaked at 6.3 billion in 1977 but consumption has remained constant from 2005 through to 2008 at 2.4 billion cigarettes. Over the last 30 years the number of cigarettes that have been available has dropped by 61.5%. The volume of tobacco available for consumption rose to a new high of 904 tonnes and was 83.3 percent higher than the lowest amount recorded in 1985.\n\nThe first building in the world to have a smoke-free policy was the Old Government Building in Wellington, New Zealand, in 1876. This policy was enacted over concerns about the threat of fire, as it was the second largest wooden building in the world.\n\nThe earliest attempt at tobacco control was in 1907, when the government moved to ban tobacco sales to persons under the age of 16, as it was feared that tobacco would \"stunt\" a minor's growth. However, this law was not enforced until 1988. In 1997, the age restriction was increased to 18 years. Although it is now illegal to sell tobacco products to a minor, a minor may still publicly consume, possess and distribute tobacco to friends without penalty (as opposed to alcohol).\n\nThe Smoke-free Environments Act 1990 was passed to prevent the effects of passive smoking on other people by restricting cigarette smoking in places such as workplaces and schools.\n\nNew Zealand passed an amendment to the Smoke-free Environments Act on 3 December 2003 (effective in 2004) which covers all indoor public workplaces and hospitality venues (pubs, bars, nightclubs, charter club bars, restaurants and casinos). Studies have shown very high levels of compliance with the law. Also, the air quality at indoor hospitality venues is very good compared to similar settings in other countries where smoking is still permitted.\n\nOutdoor smoke-free laws cover the grounds of all schools, some council-owned parks (e.g., in South Taranaki and Upper Hutt), the grounds of some hospitals, stadiums and most university campuses. However, these laws are not strictly enforced apart from a polite request from security guards and property owners. The government has not moved to restrict smoking in cars, but has run mass media campaigns that promote smoke-free cars and homes.\n\nSmoking on domestic flights was banned in 1988 and on all international flights as of 1996.\n\nCigarette advertising was banned on TV and radio in 1963, on cinemas and billboards in 1971, and in print media in 1990. Tobacco sponsorship was phased out in 1995 and tobacco signage banned from outside shops the same year. Tobacco displays themselves were banned in 2012.\n\nThe sale of single cigarettes was banned in early 1998, and cigarettes are required to be sold in packs of no less than 20.\n\nThe New Zealand government's \"National Drug Policy 2007-2012\" seeks to reduce the effects of tobacco use by limiting availability, limiting the use of tobacco, and reducing harm from existing tobacco use.\n\nOn 5 September 2007, Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) called for the removal of tobacco from sale by 2017. Tobacco displays in shops were banned in 2012. Winston Peters, himself a smoker, has long been lobbying for the rights of smokers. In the 2016 New Zealand budget, ACT New Zealand also came out lobbying on behalf of smokers, arguing that despite tax on tobacco having doubled in the last five years, with smoking rates having dropped by 1.3 percentage points only.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2806657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2806657", "title": "St John of God Health Care", "text": "St John of God Health Care\n\nSt John of God Health Care is Australia's third largest private hospital operator, with 23 hospitals and facilities comprising more than 3,000 beds. The group operates in Western Australia, New South Wales, Victoria, and New Zealand.\n\nIt is Australia's largest Catholic not-for-profit private hospital group.\n\nSt John of God Health Care Inc is a wholly owned and controlled entity of St John of God Australia Ltd, established in 1989 to sponsor the ministry that until then was run solely by the Sisters of St John of God.\n\nThe congregation of the Sisters of St John of God was founded in 1871 in Wexford, Ireland. In 1895, Perth’s Bishop Matthew Gibney sent a request to the Sisters for help to care for people suffering from typhoid during the 1890s Gold Rush. The first hospital established under this arrangement was at Kalgoorlie in the late 1890s followed shortly by another in the Perth suburb of Subiaco.\n\nThe Sisters of St John of God went on to establish hospitals, pathology and social outreach services in Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales.\n\nIn 2007, St John of God Health Care merged with the services previously operated by the Hospitaller Order of St John of God in Victoria, New South Wales and New Zealand.\n\nIn 2015, St John of God Health Care expanded into public health care and took ownership of Hawkesbury District Health Service and opened St John of God Midland Public and Private Hospitals.\n\nThe symbol used by St John of God Health Care is a cross with a pomegranate. The cross symbolises the Christian heritage of the organisation; the pomegranate, which is open to allow the seeds to scatter, symbolises self-giving and represents the organisation's values.\n\nThe pomegranate symbol was chosen by the Sisters of St John of God to reflect the order’s patron Saint, John of God, who ministered to the sick and poor in the Spanish town of Granada – ‘pomegranate’ in Spanish – in the early 16th century.\n\nSt John of God Health Care operates private and public hospitals, as well as disability, home nursing and social outreach services.\n\nSt John of God operates 13 medical/surgical hospitals, one rehabilitation hospital, three psychiatric hospitals, three day hospitals and one oncology centre across Australia. It also operates home nursing services in Western Australia and Victoria, social outreach services in Western Australia, New South Wales and Victoria and supported residential facilities for people living with a disability in Victoria and New Zealand.\n\n\n\n\n\nSt John of God Health Care operates a number of social outreach and community programs to support disadvantaged and vulnerable communities, including:\n\nSt John of God Health Choices provides a range of nursing and personal care services in Western Australia and Victoria.\n\nThe fundraising arm of St John of God Health Care is the St John of God Foundation, established in 1994 by the Sisters of St John of God. In February 2010, the Foundation was integrated into St John of God Health Care.\n\nThe Foundation works to raise funds for research, infrastructure and social outreach services in response to the needs of people and communities that are not met by traditional means or government funding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53487", "title": "Standard of living", "text": "Standard of living\n\nStandard of living refers to the level of wealth, comfort, material goods, and necessities available to a certain socioeconomic class in a certain geographic area, usually a country.\nThe standard of living includes factors such as income, quality and availability of employment, class disparity, poverty rate, quality and affordability of housing, hours of work required to purchase necessities, gross domestic product, inflation rate, amount of leisure time every year, affordable (or free) access to quality healthcare, quality and availability of education, life expectancy, incidence of disease, cost of goods and services, infrastructure, national economic growth, economic and political stability, political and religious freedom, environmental quality, climate and safety. The standard of living is closely related to quality of life.\n\nStandard of living is generally measured by standards such as real (i.e. inflation adjusted) income per person and poverty rate. Other measures such as access and quality of health care, income growth inequality, and educational standards are also used. Examples are access to certain goods (such as number of refrigerators per 1000 people), or measures of health such as life expectancy. It is the ease by which people living in a time or place are able to satisfy their needs and/or wants.\n\nThe main idea of a 'standard' may be contrasted with the quality of life, which takes into account not only the material standard of living, but also other more intangible aspects that make up human life, such as leisure, safety, cultural resources, social life, physical health, environmental quality issues, etc. More complex means of measuring well-being must be employed to make such judgements, and these are very often political, thus controversial. Even between two nations or societies that have similar material standards of living, quality of life factors may in fact make one of these places more attractive to a given individual or group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43448764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43448764", "title": "Susan Jebb", "text": "Susan Jebb\n\nSusan Ann Jebb OBE (born 29 August 1964) is a nutrition scientist, and the Professor of Diet and Population Health at the Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences at the University of Oxford. She is the UK Government's advisor on obesity in the United Kingdom.\n\nShe was born Susan Ann Parkinson. She studied at Surrey University on a course which included a six-month placement in an oncology research group at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.\n\nShe is interested in diet and the effect this has on obesity.\n\nShe was Head of Nutrition and Health Research at the MRC Human Nutrition Research in Cambridge.\n\nShe chairs the Food Network on the Department of Health's Public Health Responsibility Deal.\n\nIn 2008 she was awarded the OBE for services to public health.\n\nIn 2014 she gave advice on the UK government's outlawing of sugary drinks for children.\n\nShe married in June 1990 in Ellesmere, Shropshire and has a son born 2001 in Cambridge.\n"}
{"id": "7625133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7625133", "title": "TAP Pharmaceuticals", "text": "TAP Pharmaceuticals\n\nTAP Pharmaceuticals was formed in 1977 as a joint venture between the two global pharmaceutical companies, Abbott Laboratories and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and was dissolved in 2008; its two most successful products were proton-pump inhibitor lansoprazole (Prevacid) and the prostate cancer drug, leuprorelin ((Lupron). The intention of the joint venture was to get products that Takeda had discovered developed, approved, and marketed in the US and Canada.\n\nThe company was established at a time when Japanese pharmaceutical companies were seeking partnerships to access the US market. These efforts were supported by the Japanese government at the time to help the national economy compete in higher technology, as countries like South Korea, Taiwan were beginning to catch up with Japan in commodity production. Japanese pharmaceutical companies were especially strong in the fields of generating analogs of known cephalosporin antibiotics, cancer drugs, and cardiovascular drugs.\n\nThe first products TAP file new drug applications for, were two cephalosporins, cefmenoxime (Cefmax) and cefsulodin (Cefonomil), estazolam for sleep disorders, and leuprorelin; leuprorelin was the first one approved, in 1985.\n\nIn 1998 Takeda established its own US R&D and sales force, for the diabetes drug pioglitazone (Actos). \n\nIn 2000, TAP's withdrew its new drug application for apomorphine (branded as \"Uprima\") as a treatment for erectile dysfunction after an FDA review panel raised questions about the drug's safety, due to many clinical trial subjects fainting after taking the drug.\n\nIn 2001, the US Department of Justice, states attorneys general, and TAP Pharmaceutical Products settled criminal and civil charges against TAP related to federal and state medicare fraud and illegal marketing of the drug leuprorelin. TAP paid a total of $875 million, which was a record high at the time.\n\nThe $875 million settlement broke down to $290 million for violating the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, $559.5 million to settle federal fraud charges for overcharging Medicare, and $25.5 million reimbursement to 50 states and Washington, D.C., for filing false claims with the states' Medicaid programs. The case arose under the False Claims Act with claims filed by Douglas Durand, a former TAP vice president of sales, and Joseph Gerstein, a doctor at Tufts University's HMO practice. Durand, Gerstein, and Tufts shared $95 million of the settlement.\n\nWhen the settlement was announced, the Department of Justice also announced that seven people were indicted on criminal charges by a grand jury; the DoJ also said that four doctors had already pled guilty for receiving kickbacks. As of 2003 around 12 TAP employees had been indicted and were contested the charges, and one had pled guilty.\n\nAbbott and Takeda agreed to end the partnership in 2008, with Abbott keeping the rights to leuprorelin, which had sales in 2007 of $600 million and a patent expiring in 2015 and the approximately 300 employees who worked on the product, and Takeda keeping the rights to lansoprazole, which had sales of $2.3 billion in 2007 but was facing imminent generic competition, along with 800 employees in the U.S. and all the drugs in the TAP pipeline. Takeda was also obligated to pay Abbott about $1.5 billion over several years. By 2008, Takeda's own sales in the US outside of TAP had grown to $3 billion, mostly from sales of pioglitazone which by then was the best-selling diabetes drug in the world.\n"}
{"id": "11242944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11242944", "title": "The Hungry Gene", "text": "The Hungry Gene\n\nThe Hungry Gene is a 2002 book by Ellen Ruppel Shell in which she tackles the issue of obesity. It is a non-fiction journalistic book. The author devotes multiple chapters of her book to the events that led to the co-discovery of the Leptin gene in 1994. Based on interviews with the parties involved, she reports that Leptin was co-discovered at Rockefeller University by Rudolph Leibel, Jeffrey Friedman, and members of their laboratories, and explains why Leibel and others were excluded by Friedman in the scientific paper that announced the discovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "9880032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9880032", "title": "Tobacco harm reduction", "text": "Tobacco harm reduction\n\nTobacco harm reduction (THR) is a public health strategy to lower the health risks to individuals and wider society associated with using tobacco products. It is an example of the concept of harm reduction, a strategy for dealing with the abuse of other drugs. Tobacco smoking is widely acknowledged as a leading cause of illness and death, and preventing smoking is vital to public health.\n\nIn the developed world, a reduction in the prevalence of smoking has been primarily achieved through reducing the uptake of smoking among younger people rather than improving the rates of quitting in established smokers. It is, however, this latter group who will generate the greatest source of population burden of morbidity and premature mortality caused by smoking in the next twenty years.\n\nNicotine itself, however, is not very harmful, as inferred from the long history of use for nicotine replacement therapy products. Nicotine increases heart rate and blood pressure and has a range of local irritant effects but is not carcinogenic (cancer causing). Indeed, none of the three main causes of mortality from smoking, lung cancer, COPD and cardiovascular disease, is caused primarily by nicotine. The main hazardous component is the smoke which results from the combustion of tobacco, so if nicotine could be effectively and acceptably delivered without smoke, it is likely that most if not all the harm of smoking could be avoided. THR measures have been focused on reducing or eliminating the use of combustible tobacco by switching to other nicotine products, including:\n\n\nIt is widely acknowledged that discontinuation of all tobacco products confers the greatest lowering of risk. However, approved smoking cessation methods have a 90% failure rate, when used as directed. In addition, there is a considerable population of smokers who are unable or unwilling to achieve abstinence. Harm reduction is likely of substantial benefit to these smokers and public health. Providing reduced-harm alternatives to smokers is likely to result in lower total population risk than pursuing abstinence-only policies.\n\nThe strategy is controversial: proponents of tobacco harm reduction assert that lessening the health risk for the individual user is worthwhile and manifests over the population in fewer tobacco-related illnesses and deaths. Opponents have argued that some aspects of harm reduction interfere with cessation and abstinence and might increase initiation. However, surveys carried from 2013 to 2015 in the UK and France suggest that on the contrary, the availability of safer alternatives to smoking is associated with decreased smoking prevalence and increased smoking cessation.\n\nThe concept of tobacco harm reduction was established in 1976 when Professor Michael Russell wrote: \"People smoke for nicotine but they die from the tar\" and suggested that the ratio of tar to nicotine could be the key to safer smoking. Since then, the harm from smoking has been well-established as being caused almost exclusively by toxins released through the combustion of tobacco. In contrast, non-combustible tobacco products as well as pure nicotine products are considerably less harmful, although they still have the potential for addiction.\n\nDebates on tobacco harm reduction tend to be geographically defined arguments, because of the varying legal, moral, and historical status of tobacco, and the different types of tobacco products and use in different cultures around the world. For instance, cigarette smoking is the dominant form in the United States, while use of cigars, pipes, and smokeless tobacco is limited to a much smaller population. Anti-smoking advocacy efforts and widespread popularization of the negative health effects of smoking over the last few decades have led to restrictions in the sale and use of tobacco products. Despite this, tobacco in all its forms has remained a legal product in most societies. A notable exception is the European Union, where the most dangerous products (cigarettes) are available but smokeless tobacco products, which are far less hazardous, are banned. The exception is Sweden, where there is a long tradition of smokeless tobacco (snus) use among men.\n\nIn October 2008 the American Association of Public Health Physicians (AAPHP) became the first medical organization in the U.S. to officially endorse tobacco harm reduction as a viable strategy to reduce the death toll related to cigarette smoking.\n\nLight Cigarettes\n\nCigarette manufacturers have attempted to design safer cigarettes for almost 50 years, but results have been marginal at best. Filters were introduced in the early 1950s, and manufacturers were selling low-yield cigarettes by the late 1960s. Initially it was thought that these innovations were harm reducing. For example, in 1976 investigators at the American Cancer Society published research concluding that light cigarettes were safer. The study authors wrote that \"total death rates, death rates from coronary heart disease, and death rates from lung cancer were somewhat lower for those who smoked 'low' tar-nicotine cigarettes than for those who smoked 'high' tar-nicotine cigarettes.\" However, scientific evidence suggests that switching from regular to light or low-tar cigarettes does not reduce the health risks of smoking or lower the smoker's exposure to the nicotine, tar, and carcinogens present in cigarette smoke. Indeed, part of the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control’s Article 11 and its accompanying guidelines recommend that misleading terms, including ‘light’ and ‘mild’, should be removed from tobacco product advertising, packaging, and labeling.\n\nIt has been established that use of Swedish and American smokeless tobacco confers only 0.1% to 10% of the risks of smoking, though smokeless products in India and elsewhere in Asia contain higher levels of contaminants and thus confer greater risks. Two respected medical groups believe that smokeless tobacco may play a role in reducing smoking-attributable deaths. In 2007, Britain's Royal College of Physicians concluded \"...that smokers smoke predominantly for nicotine, that nicotine itself is not especially hazardous, and that if nicotine could be provided in a form that is acceptable and effective as a cigarette substitute, millions of lives could be saved.\" \n\nIn the United States, a study based on National Health Interview Survey data found that 73% of smokers who switched to smokeless tobacco as part of their latest quit attempt were successful in quitting smoking. In the same study, smokers who used pharmaceutical nicotine products in their most recent quit attempt had success rates between 0 and 35%.\n\nScandinavian snus is a moist form of smokeless tobacco which is usually placed under the upper lip, and is not smoked or swallowed. A 2014 report commissioned by Public Health England on another avenue for tobacco harm reduction, electronic cigarettes, said snus \"has a risk profile that includes possible increases in risk of oesophageal and pancreatic cancer, and of fatal (but not non-fatal) myocardial infarction, but not COPD or lung cancer.\" The report examined the case of snus as \"a unique natural experiment in the impact of a socially accepted, non-medical, affordable and easily accessible reduced harm product on the prevalence of tobacco smoking\". They concluded that \"Although controversial, the Swedish natural experiment demonstrates that despite dual use and primary uptake of the reduced-harm product by young people, availability of reduced-harm alternatives for tobacco smokers can have a beneficial effect. While snus is not likely to become a legal or indeed politically viable option in the UK, this data proves the concept that harm reduction strategies can contribute to significant reductions in smoking prevalence.\"\n\nBased on the mounting evidence that the health risks of Swedish snus are far lower than those of combustible tobacco products, in August 2014, Swedish Match (a manufacturer) filed a Modified Risk Tobacco Product (MRTP) application with the FDA Center for Tobacco Products (CTP). The MRTP application seeks to modify the warning labels on smokeless tobacco products such that they reflect the evidence of reduced-harm compared to smoking. Among the proposed labeling changes, the MRTP application requests replacing the current warning, \"This product is not a safe alternative to cigarettes,\" with this text: \"No tobacco product is safe, but this product presents substantially lower risks to health than cigarettes.\"\n\nE-cigarettes are battery-powered devices that provide nicotine for inhalation in a vapour generated by heating a solution of water, nicotine propylene glycol or vegetable glycerin and typically some flavouring. They were first developed in China in 2003, and first introduced to Europe and the US around 2006.\n\nThere are many brands and models of e-cigarettes available today but they can be broadly grouped into three categories. First generation e-cigarettes are similar in appearance to a conventional cigarette and are typically designed to be for single use. Second generation e-cigarettes are around the size of a large fountain pen, have a battery linked to a permanent vapouriser and a refillable tank for the nicotine solution. Third generation e-cigarettes tend to be larger, with a more powerful battery and two heating elements which allow users to carry the power. Nicotine delivery has typically increased with successive generations of e-cigarette, and it has been suggested that repeated use of second and third generation devices can result in sustained venous blood levels of nicotine which are comparable with those expected in smokers.\n\nElectronic cigarettes are a promising harm reduction technology because they deliver nicotine without the dangerous chemicals in tobacco smoke, while remaining attractive to smokers. While the eventual regulatory status of e-cigarettes in many countries remains uncertain, public health advocates view electronic cigarette as having a valid place within tobacco harm reduction strategy. In a first step towards the regulation of e-cigarettes, the MHRA granted Marketing Authorisations (licences) for the medicinal products e-Voke 10 mg and 15 mg Electronic Inhaler (PL 40317/0001-2) on 16 November 2015. Public health researchers in the UK estimated that 6,000 premature smoking-related deaths per year would be prevented for every million smokers who switched to e-cigarettes. Since currently approved smoking cessation methods have a 90% failure rate, the use of e-cigarettes as a prominent THR modality is likely to substantially reduce tobacco-related illness in the United States, with the potential to save 4.8 million lives over the next 20 years.\n\nA survey of UK adults found that over two thirds of ex-smokers and over one third of current smokers report that one of the main reasons they use e-cigarettes is to help them stop smoking completely.\n\nResearch into the safety and efficacy of e-cigarettes for smoking cessation, published up until January 2016, is limited, but suggests a potential increase in long term smoking cessation using e-cigarettes containing nicotine compared to those without, with no increased health risk compared to smokers with medium term use (two years or less). As with any new product, long term or rare adverse effects will not become clear until e-cigarettes have been in widespread use for decades. However, in an effort to decrease tobacco related death and disease, e-cigarettes appear to have a potential to be part of the strategy.\n\nRegulation of e-cigarettes varies around the world. The Institute for Global Tobacco Control (IGTC) has identified 68 countries that have laws regulating e-cigarettes, as at November 2016. Types of regulation include complete prohibition on the sale and marketing of e-cigarettes, prohibition on their use in enclosed public places, minimum age for purchase, an allowance for e-cigarettes to be sold under general consumer product regulations and most recently, in the UK, e-cigarettes may be brought to market as either medicines or consumer products (with those seeking medicines approval undergoing the standard medicines licensing process). The World Health Organization acknowledge that e-cigarettes may play a role in harm reduction strategies, but should be regulated to minimize any potential risks. However, the vast differences in regulatory approaches evident around the world highlights the challenge of developing a global regulatory approach.\n\nAn alternative nicotine delivery platform based on existing asthma inhaler technology has been developed by a UK-based healthcare company, Kind Consumer Limited. The technology is under license to Nicoventures Limited a subsidiary of British American Tobacco who are responsible for the launch and commercialization of the technology as an approved nicotine replacement therapy product. The MHRA granted Marketing Authorizations (licenses) for the medicinal products Voke/Nicotine 0.45 mg Inhaler (PL 39589/0001-2) on 11 September 2014, with a variation to the license to support full commercialization granted on 23 February 2015.\n\nSmokers remain confused about tobacco harm reduction. In a 2004 survey, about 80-100% of participants incorrectly perceived low-yield cigarettes as harm-reducing, while 75-80% mistakenly believed that switching to smokeless tobacco conferred no risk reduction.\n\nSimilar confusion exists about electronic cigarettes. In the UK, research commissioned by the anti-smoking charity Action on Smoking and Health found that in 2016, more than three times as many people think e-cigarettes are as harmful or more harmful than smoking than in 2013 (25% vs 7%), the highest proportion since the survey began. They expressed concern that the proportion of adult smokers who thought that e-cigarettes were more or equally harmful than cigarettes was highest in those who had never tried e-cigarettes, and these perceived potential harms was the main reason why they had not tried them.\n\nIn 2015 a report commissioned by Public Health England noted, as well as the UK figures above, that in the US belief among responders to a survey that vaping was safer than smoking cigarettes fell from 82% in 2010 to 51% in 2014. The report blamed \"misinterpreted research findings\", attracting negative media coverage, for the growth in the \"inaccurate\" belief that e-cigarettes were less harmful than smoking, and concluded that \"There is a need to publicise the current best estimate that using EC is around 95% safer than smoking\".\n\nIn an article published by the Wall Street Journal in 2016 entitled \"Are E-Cigarettes a Healthy Way to Quit Smoking?\", Dr. Jed E. Rose co-inventor of the nicotine patch said, \"Having worked my entire career to develop effective smoking-cessation treatments, I have realized that current approaches are ineffective for the vast majority of smokers. Alternative approaches are urgently needed. The World Health Organization predicts a billion deaths will be attributable to smoking during the 21st century. Electronic cigarettes have an unparalleled potential to reduce the public-health impact of smoking, by allowing smokers to replace the habit and nicotine of smoking without the toxic effects of combustion.\"\n\nWhilst tobacco harm reduction approaches have the potential to reduce risks to the current adult smoking population, there are hypothesised potential hazards to wider public health. Smoking has become less acceptable over recent years in a number of countries, a result of a number of he Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) guidelines to reduce smoking prevalence. The renormalisation of smoking is a concern if e-cigarette use appears to become more appealing, for example through their use in locations where conventional cigarettes are prohibited, advertising and increased e-cigarette use by parents, siblings, peers, celebrities or other influential groups.\n\nConcerns have also been raised that non-tobacco nicotine use may results in uptake of tobacco smoking that would not otherwise have occurred. This ‘gateway theory’ has been largely applied to the use of e-cigarettes by non-smokers and particularly children. There is no reported evidence, however, that NRT use among young people has ever acted as a gateway to smoking, or that e-cigarette use has resulted in any appreciable increase initiation of smoking among children or adults. The Royal College of Physicians suggest that any association between e-cigarette and conventional cigarette use is likely due to common liability to use these products and the use of e-cigarettes to reduce smoking.\n\nDual use of tobacco products and non-tobacco nicotine by continuing smokers is another aspect which has raised concern. It is suggested that dual use could inadvertently sustain smoking by making it easier for smokers to temporarily abstain from tobacco use, or encourage smokers to move towards dual use rather than complete cessation in the mistaken belief that this offers significant health gains. Dual use of tobacco and NRT is licensed by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority (MHRA) as a tobacco harm reduction strategy which actually increases the chance of quitting. The Royal College of Physicians reviewed evidence around dual use and smoking cessation and reported that findings were suggestive that e-cigarettes had the potential to offer the same cessation gains, although further research would be helpful to more clearly delineate such an effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "10238055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10238055", "title": "Whitemoor Haye", "text": "Whitemoor Haye\n\nWhitemoor Haye () is a mainly agricultural area in the floodplain of the River Tame, near Alrewas in Staffordshire, England.\n\nIt is very popular with birdwatchers, as several rare species are either resident or seasonal visitors, notably the corn bunting.\n\nThe remains of several woolly rhinoceroses were recovered from a quarry here in 2002.\n\nThere is an airfield, for light aircraft such as microlights.\n\n"}
