{"id": "18223914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18223914", "title": "AIM25", "text": "AIM25\n\nAIM25 is a non-profit making collaborative archive project; a single point of networked access to collection level descriptions of the archives of over one hundred higher education institutions, learned societies and specialist archives within the M25 Greater London area of the United Kingdom. It holds over 7500 collection level descriptions on subjects including social sciences, politics, social and economic history, women's history and military history. Each description on AIM25 provides a link to ARCHON which gives contact details of the repository holding that archive.\n\nAIM25 follows ISAD(G) and is interoperable with Encoded Archival Description, Open Archives Initiative and Dublin Core. AIM25 is based at King's College London and is freely available to all. Partner institutions update the records for their holdings and collection level descriptions are indexed at King's College London using personal, corporate, place names and subject thesauri.\nAIM25 is freely available and forms part of the UK national network of archives.\n\nThe relaunched interface has Web 2.0 features including a tag cloud, RSS feeds and space for the upload of images.\n\nThe project was initially funded by the Research Support Libraries Programme\n\n"}
{"id": "18951490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18951490", "title": "American football", "text": "American football\n\nAmerican football, referred to as football in the United States and Canada and also known as gridiron, is a team sport played by two teams of eleven players on a rectangular field with goalposts at each end. The offense, which is the team controlling the oval-shaped football, attempts to advance down the field by running with or passing the ball, while the defense, which is the team without control of the ball, aims to stop the offense's advance and aims to take control of the ball for themselves. The offense must advance at least ten yards in four downs, or plays, and otherwise they turn over the football to the defense; if the offense succeeds in advancing ten yards or more, they are given a new set of four downs. Points are primarily scored by advancing the ball into the opposing team's end zone for a touchdown or kicking the ball through the opponent's goalposts for a field goal. The team with the most points at the end of a game wins.\n\nAmerican football evolved in the United States, originating from the sports of association football (known in the U.S. as soccer) and rugby football. The first match of American football was played on November 6, 1869, between two college teams, Rutgers and Princeton, under rules based on the association football rules of the time. During the latter half of the 1870s, colleges playing association football switched to the Rugby Union code, which allowed carrying the ball. A set of rule changes drawn up from 1880 onward by Walter Camp, the \"Father of American Football\", established the snap, eleven-player teams, and the concept of downs; later rule changes legalized the forward pass, created the neutral zone, and specified the size and shape of the football. The sport is closely related to Canadian football, which evolved parallel and contemporary to the American game, and most of the features that distinguish American football from rugby and soccer are also present in Canadian football.\n\nAmerican football as a whole is the most popular sport in the United States. The most popular forms of the game are professional and college football, with the other major levels being high school and youth football. , nearly 1.1 million high school athletes and 70,000 college athletes play the sport in the United States annually, almost all of them men, with a few exceptions. The National Football League, the most popular American football league, has the highest average attendance of any professional sports league in the world; its championship game, the Super Bowl, ranks among the most-watched club sporting events in the world, and the league has an annual revenue of around US$10 billion.\n\nIn the United States, American Football is called \"football\". The terms \"gridiron\" or \"American football\" are favored in English-speaking countries where other codes of football are popular, such as the United Kingdom, Ireland, New Zealand, and Australia.\n\nAmerican football evolved from the sports of association football (soccer) and rugby football. Rugby football, like American football, is a sport where two competing teams vie for control of a ball, which can be kicked through a set of goalposts or run into the opponent's goal area to score points.\n\nWhat is considered to be the first American football game was played on November 6, 1869, between Rutgers and Princeton, two college teams. The game was played between two teams of 25 players each and used a round ball that could not be picked up or carried. It could, however, be kicked or batted with the feet, hands, head or sides, with the ultimate goal being to advance it into the opponent's goal. Rutgers won the game 6 goals to 4. Collegiate play continued for several years in which matches were played using the rules of the host school. Representatives of Yale, Columbia, Princeton and Rutgers met on October 19, 1873 to create a standard set of rules for all schools to adhere to. Teams were set at 20 players each, and fields of were specified. Harvard abstained from the conference, as they favored a rugby-style game that allowed running with the ball. After playing McGill University using both Canadian and American rules, the Harvard players preferred the Canadian style having only 11 men on the field, running the ball without having to be chased by an opponent, the forward pass, tackling, and using an oblong instead of a round ball.\n\nAn 1875 Harvard-Yale game played under rugby-style rules was observed by two impressed Princeton athletes. These players introduced the sport to Princeton, a feat the Professional Football Researchers Association compared to \"selling refrigerators to Eskimos.\" Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Columbia then agreed to intercollegiate play using a form of rugby union rules with a modified scoring system. These schools formed the Intercollegiate Football Association, although Yale did not join until 1879. Yale player Walter Camp, now regarded as the \"Father of American Football\", secured rule changes in 1880 that reduced the size of each team from 15 to 11 players and instituted the snap to replace the chaotic and inconsistent scrum.\n\nThe introduction of the snap resulted in unexpected consequences. Prior to the snap, the strategy had been to punt if a scrum resulted in bad field position. However, a group of Princeton players realized that, as the snap was uncontested, they now could hold the ball indefinitely to prevent their opponent from scoring. In 1881, both teams in a game between Yale-Princeton used this strategy to maintain their undefeated records. Each team held the ball, gaining no ground, for an entire half, resulting in a 0–0 tie. This \"block game\" proved extremely unpopular with the spectators and fans of both teams.\n\nA rule change was necessary to prevent this strategy from taking hold, and a reversion to the scrum was considered. However, Camp successfully proposed a rule in 1882 that limited each team to three downs, or tackles, to advance the ball five yards. Failure to advance the ball the required distance within those three downs would result in control of the ball being forfeited to the other team. This change effectively made American football a separate sport from rugby, and the resulting five-yard lines added to the field to measure distances made it resemble a gridiron in appearance. Other major rule changes included a reduction of the field size to , and the adoption of a scoring system that awarded four points for a touchdown, two for a safety and a goal following a touchdown, and five for a goal from field; additionally, tackling below the waist was legalized. The last, and arguably most important innovation, which would at last make American football uniquely \"American\", was the legalization of interference, or blocking, a tactic which was highly illegal under the rugby-style rules.\nDespite these new rules, football remained a violent sport. Dangerous mass-formations, which involved interlocking interference, like the flying wedge resulted in serious injuries and deaths. A 1905 peak of 19 fatalities nationwide resulted in a threat by President Theodore Roosevelt to abolish the game unless major changes were made. In response, sixty-two colleges and universities met in New York City to discuss rule changes on December 28, 1905, and these proceedings resulted in the formation of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association of the United States, later named the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).\n\nThe legal forward pass was introduced in 1906, although its impact was initially limited due to the restrictions placed on its use. Other rule changes introduced that year included the reduction of the time of play from 70 to 60 minutes and the increase of the distance required for a first down from 5 to . To reduce infighting and dirty play between teams, the neutral zone was created along the width of the football. Scoring was also adjusted: field goals were lowered to three points in 1909 and touchdowns were raised to six points in 1912. The field was also reduced to long, but two 10-yard-long end zones were created, and teams were given four downs instead of three to advance the ball . The roughing the passer penalty was implemented in 1914, and eligible players were first allowed to catch the ball anywhere on the field in 1918.\n\nOn November 12, 1892, William \"Pudge\" Heffelfinger was paid $500 to play a game for the Allegheny Athletic Association in a match against the Pittsburgh Athletic Club. This is the first recorded instance of a player being paid to participate in a game of American football, although many athletic clubs in the 1880s offered indirect benefits, such as helping players attain employment, giving out trophies or watches that players could pawn for money, or paying double in expense money. Despite these extra benefits, the game had a strict sense of amateurism at the time, and direct payment to players was frowned upon, if not outright prohibited.\n\nOver time, professional play became increasingly common, and with it came rising salaries and unpredictable player movement, as well as the illegal payment of college players who were still in school. The National Football League (NFL), a group of professional teams that was originally established in 1920 as the American Professional Football Association, aimed to solve these problems. This new league's stated goals included an end to bidding wars over players, prevention of the use of college players, and abolition of the practice of paying players to leave another team. By 1922, the NFL had established itself as the premier professional football league.\n\nThe dominant form of football at the time was played at the collegiate level, but the upstart NFL received a boost to its legitimacy in 1925 when an NFL team, the Pottsville Maroons, defeated a team of Notre Dame all-stars in an exhibition game. A greater emphasis on the passing game helped professional football to further distinguish itself from the college game during the late 1930s. Football in general became increasingly popular following the 1958 NFL Championship game, a match between the Baltimore Colts and the New York Giants that is still referred to as the \"Greatest Game Ever Played\". The game, a 23–17 overtime victory by the Colts, was seen by millions of television viewers and had a major impact on the popularity of the sport. This, along with the innovations introduced by the new American Football League (AFL) in the early 1960s, helped football to become the most popular sport in the United States by the mid-1960s.\n\nThe rival American Football League arose in 1960 and challenged the NFL's dominance. The AFL began in relative obscurity but eventually thrived, with an initial television contract with the ABC network. The AFL's existence forced the conservative NFL to expand to Dallas and Minnesota in an attempt to destroy the new league. Meanwhile, the AFL introduced many new features to Professional Football in the United States: official time on the scoreboard clock, rather than on a watch in the referee's pocket, as the NFL did; optional two-point conversions by pass or run after touchdowns; names on the jerseys of players; and several others, including expansion of the role of minority players, actively recruited by the league in contrast to the NFL. The AFL also signed several star college players that had also been drafted by NFL teams. Competition for players heated up in 1965, when the AFL New York Jets signed rookie Joe Namath to a then-record US$437,000 contract. A five-year, $40 million NBC television contract followed, which helped to sustain the young league. The bidding war for players ended in 1966, when NFL owners approached the AFL regarding a merger, and the two leagues agreed on one that would take full effect in 1970. This agreement provided for a common draft that would take place each year, and it instituted an annual World Championship game to be played between the champions of each league. That game began play at the end of the 1966 season. Once the merger was completed, it was no longer a championship game between two leagues, and reverted to the NFL championship game, which came to be known as the Super Bowl.\n\nCollege football maintained a tradition of postseason bowl games. Each bowl game would be associated with a particular conference, and earning a spot in a bowl game was the reward for winning a conference. This arrangement was profitable, but it tended to prevent the two top-ranked teams from meeting in a true national championship game, as they would normally be committed to the bowl games of their respective conferences. Several systems have been used since 1992 to determine a national champion of college football. The first was the Bowl Coalition, in place from 1992 to 1994. This was replaced in 1995 by the Bowl Alliance, which gave way in 1997 to the Bowl Championship Series (BCS). The BCS arrangement proved to be controversial, and was replaced in 2014 by the College Football Playoff (CFP).\n\nA football game is played between two teams of 11 players each. Playing with more on the field is punishable by a penalty. Teams may substitute any number of their players between downs; this \"platoon\" system replaced the original system, which featured limited substitution rules, and has resulted in teams utilizing specialized offensive, defensive and special teams squads.\n\nIndividual players in a football game must be designated with a uniform number between 1 and 99. NFL teams are required to number their players by a league-approved numbering system, and any exceptions must be approved by the Commissioner. NCAA and NFHS teams are \"strongly advised\" to number their offensive players according to a league-suggested numbering scheme.\n\nThe role of the offensive unit is to advance the football down the field with the ultimate goal of scoring a touchdown.\nThe offensive team must line up in a legal formation before they can snap the ball. An offensive formation is considered illegal if there are more than four players in the backfield or fewer than five players numbered 50–79 on the offensive line. Players can temporarily line up in a position whose eligibility is different from what their number permits as long as they immediately report the change to the referee, who then informs the defensive team of the change. Neither team's players, with the exception of the snapper, are allowed to line up in or cross the neutral zone until the ball is snapped. Interior offensive linemen are not allowed to move until the snap of the ball.\nThe main backfield positions are the quarterback (QB), halfback/tailback (HB/TB) and fullback (FB). The quarterback is the leader of the offense. Either the quarterback or a coach calls the plays. Quarterbacks typically inform the rest of the offense of the play in the huddle before the team lines up. The quarterback lines up behind the center to take the snap and then hands the ball off, throws it or runs with it.\n\nThe primary role of the halfback, also known as the running back or tailback, is to carry the ball on running plays. Halfbacks may also serve as receivers. Fullbacks tend to be larger than halfbacks and function primarily as blockers, but they are sometimes used as runners in short-yardage situations and are seldom used in passing situations.\n\nThe offensive line (OL) consists of several players whose primary function is to block members of the defensive line from tackling the ball carrier on running plays or sacking the quarterback on passing plays. The leader of the offensive line is the center (C), who is responsible for snapping the ball to the quarterback, blocking, and for making sure that the other linemen do their jobs during the play. On either side of the center are the guards (G), while tackles (T) line up outside the guards.\n\nThe principal receivers are the wide receivers (WR) and the tight ends (TE). Wide receivers line up on or near the line of scrimmage, split outside the line. The main goal of the wide receiver is to catch passes thrown by the quarterback, but they may also function as decoys or as blockers during running plays. Tight ends line up outside the tackles and function both as receivers and as blockers.\n\nThe role of the defense is to prevent the offense from scoring by tackling the ball carrier or by forcing turnovers (interceptions or fumbles).\n\nThe defensive line (DL) consists of defensive ends (DE) and defensive tackles (DT). Defensive ends line up on the ends of the line, while defensive tackles line up inside, between the defensive ends. The primary responsibilities of defensive ends and defensive tackles is to stop running plays on the outside and inside, respectively, to pressure the quarterback on passing plays, and to occupy the line so that the linebackers can break through.\nLinebackers line up behind the defensive line but in front of the defensive backfield. They are divided into two types: middle linebackers (MLB) and outside linebackers (OLB). Linebackers are the defensive leaders and call the defensive plays. Their diverse roles include defending the run, pressuring the quarterback, and guarding backs, wide receivers and tight ends in the passing game.\n\nThe defensive backfield, often called the secondary, consists of cornerbacks (CB) and safeties (S). Safeties are themselves divided into free safeties (FS) and strong safeties (SS). Cornerbacks line up outside the defensive formation, typically opposite of a receiver so as to be able to cover him, while safeties line up between the cornerbacks but farther back in the secondary. Safeties are the last line of defense, and are responsible for stopping deep passing plays as well as running plays.\n\nThe special teams unit is responsible for all kicking plays. The special teams unit of the team in control of the ball will try and execute field goal (FG) attempts, punts and kickoffs, while the opposing team's unit will aim to block or return them.\n\nThree positions are specific to the field goal and PAT (point-after-touchdown) unit: the placekicker (K or PK), holder (H) and long snapper (LS). The long snapper's job is to snap the football to the holder, who will catch and position it for the placekicker. There is not usually a holder on kickoffs, because the ball is kicked off of a tee; however, a holder may be used in certain situations, such as if wind is preventing the ball from remaining upright on the tee. The player on the receiving team who catches the ball is known as the kickoff returner (KR).\n\nThe positions specific to punt plays are the punter (P), long snapper, upback and gunner. The long snapper snaps the football directly to the punter, who then drops and kicks it before it hits the ground. Gunners line up split outside the line and race down the field, aiming to tackle the punt returner (PR) – the player that catches the punt. Upbacks line up a short distance behind the line of scrimmage, providing additional protection to the punter.\n\nIn American football, the winner is the team that has scored the most points at the end of the game. There are multiple ways to score in a football game.\n\nThe touchdown (TD), worth six points, is the most valuable scoring play in American football. A touchdown is scored when a live ball is advanced into, caught in, or recovered in the end zone of the opposing team. The scoring team then attempts a try or conversion, more commonly known as the point(s)-after-touchdown (PAT), which is a single scoring opportunity.\n\nA PAT is most commonly attempted from the two- or three-yard line, depending on the level of play. If scored by a placekick or dropkick through the goal posts, it is worth one point, and is typically called the extra point. Conversely, a team may elect to run a single play from scrimmage and attempt, once again, to achieve what would normally be considered a touchdown. In such a case, a successful attempt is called the two-point conversion and is worth two points. For the 2015 season, the NFL adopted a rules on PATs that stated during an extra point the placekick must be snapped from the 15-yard line and on extra points if the kick is blocked and the opposing team returns it into the end zone or if during a two-point conversion the ball is fumbled or intercepted and returned to the end zone the opposing team will score two points. No points are awarded on a failed extra point or two-point conversion attempt, although under a rare set of circumstances it is possible to score a safety, worth one point, if the defense takes the ball back into its own end zone and is downed there. In general, the extra point is almost always successful in professional play and is only slightly less successful at amateur levels, while the two-point conversion is a much riskier play with a higher probability of failure; accordingly, extra point attempts are far more common than two-point conversion attempts.\n\nA field goal (FG), worth three points, is scored when the ball is placekicked or dropkicked through the uprights and over the crossbars of the defense's goalposts. After a PAT attempt or successful field goal the scoring team must kick the ball off to the other team.\n\nA safety is scored when the ball carrier is tackled in their own end zone. Safeties are worth two points, which are awarded to the defense. In addition, the team that conceded the safety must kick the ball to the scoring team via a free kick.\n\nFootball games are played on a rectangular field that measures long and wide. Lines marked along the ends and sides of the field are known respectively as the end lines and sidelines, and goal lines are marked inward from each end line. Weighted pylons are placed on the inside corner of the intersections of the goal lines and end lines.\n\nWhite markings on the field identify the distance from the end zone. Inbound lines, or hash marks, are short parallel lines that mark off increments. Yard lines, which can run the width of the field, are marked every . A one-yard-wide line is placed at each end of the field; this line is marked at the center of the two-yard line in professional play and at the three-yard line in college play. Numerals that display the distance from the closest goal line in yards are placed on both sides of the field every ten yards.\n\nGoalposts are located at the center of the plane of each of the two end lines. The crossbar of these posts is above the ground, with vertical uprights at the end of the crossbar apart for professional and collegiate play and apart for high school play. The uprights extend vertically 35 feet on professional fields, a minimum of 10 yards on college fields, and a minimum of ten feet on high school fields. Goal posts are padded at the base, and orange ribbons are normally placed at the tip of each upright.\n\nThe football itself is an oval ball, similar to the balls used in rugby or Australian rules football. At all levels of play, the football is inflated to to pounds per square inch (psi) and weighs 14 to 15 ounces (397 to 425 grams); beyond that, the exact dimensions vary slightly. In professional play the ball has a long axis of 11 to inches, a long circumference of 28 to inches, and a short circumference of 21 to inches, while in college and high school play the ball has a long axis of to inches, a long circumference of to inches, and a short circumference of to inches.\n\nFootball games last for a total of 60 minutes in professional and college play and are divided into two-halves of 30 minutes and four-quarters of 15 minutes. High school football games are 48 minutes in length with two-halves of 24 minutes and four-quarters of 12 minutes. The two-halves are separated by a halftime period, and the first and third quarters are also followed by a short break. Prior to the start of the game, the referee and team captains for each team meet at midfield for a coin toss. The visiting team is allowed to call 'heads' or 'tails'; the winner of the toss is allowed to decide between choosing whether to receive or kick off the ball or choosing which goal they want to defend, but they can also defer their choice until the second half. The losing team, unless the winning team decides to defer, is allowed to choose the option the winning team did not select, and receives the option to receive, kick, or select a goal to defend to begin the second half. Most teams choose to receive or defer, because choosing to kick the ball to start the game would allow the other team to choose which goal to defend. Teams switch goals following the first and third quarters. If a down is in progress when a quarter ends, play continues until the down is completed.\n\nGames last longer than their defined length due to play stoppages – the average NFL game lasts slightly over three hours. Time in a football game is measured by the game clock. An operator is responsible for starting, stopping and operating the game clock based on the direction of the appropriate official. A separate clock, the play clock, is used to determine if a delay of game infraction has been committed. If the play clock expires before the ball has been snapped or free-kicked, a delay of game foul is called on the offense. The play clock is set to 40 seconds in professional and college football and to 25 seconds in high school play or following certain administrative stoppages in the former levels of play.\n\nThere are two main ways that the offense can advance the ball: running and passing. In a typical play, the quarterback calls the play, and the center passes the ball backwards and under their legs to the quarterback in a process known as the snap. The quarterback then either hands the ball off to a back, throws the ball or runs with it. The play ends when the player with the ball is tackled or goes out of bounds, or a pass hits the ground without a player having caught it. A forward pass can only be legally attempted if the passer is behind the line of scrimmage. In the NFL, a down also ends if the runner's helmet comes off.\n\nThe offense is given a series of four plays, known as downs. If the offense advances ten or more yards in the four downs, they are awarded a new set of four downs. If they fail to advance ten yards, possession of the football is turned over to the defense. In most situations, if the offense reaches their fourth down they will punt the ball to the other team, which forces them to begin their drive from further down the field; if they are in field goal range, they might also attempt to score a field goal. A group of officials, the chain crew, keeps track of both the downs and the distance measurements. On television, a yellow line is electronically superimposed on the field to show the first down line to the viewing audience.\n\nThere are two categories of kicks in football: scrimmage kicks, which can be executed by the offensive team on any down from behind or on the line of scrimmage, and free kicks. The free kicks are the kickoff, which starts the first and third quarters and overtime and follows a try attempt or a successful field goal, and the safety kick, which follows a safety.\n\nOn a kickoff, the ball is placed at the 35-yard line of the kicking team in professional and college play and at the 40-yard line in high school play. The ball may be drop-kicked or place-kicked. If a place kick is chosen, the ball can be placed on the ground or on a tee, and a holder may be used in either case. On a safety kick, the kicking team kicks the ball from their own 20-yard line. They can punt, drop-kick or place-kick the ball, but a tee may not be used in professional play. Any member of the receiving team may catch or advance the ball, and the ball may be recovered by the kicking team once it has gone at least ten yards and has touched the ground or has been touched by any member of the receiving team.\n\nThe three types of scrimmage kicks are place kicks, drop kicks, and punts. Only place kicks and drop kicks can score points. The place kick is the standard method used to score points, because the pointy shape of the football makes it difficult to reliably drop kick. Once the ball has been kicked from a scrimmage kick, it can be advanced by the kicking team only if it is caught or recovered behind the line of scrimmage. If it is touched or recovered by the kicking team beyond this line, it becomes dead at the spot where it was touched. The kicking team is prohibited from interfering with the receiver's opportunity to catch the ball, and the receiving team has the option of signaling for a fair catch. This prohibits the defense from blocking into or tackling the receiver, but the play ends as soon as the ball is caught and the ball may not be advanced.\n\nOfficials are responsible for enforcing game rules and monitoring the clock. All officials carry a whistle and wear black-and-white striped shirts and black hats except for the referee, whose hat is white. Each carries a weighted yellow flag that is thrown to the ground to signal that a foul has been called. An official who spots multiple fouls will throw their hat as a secondary signal. The seven officials on the field are each tasked with a different set of responsibilities:\n\nAnother set of officials, the chain crew, are responsible for moving the chains. The chains, consisting of two large sticks with a 10-yard-long chain between them, are used to measure for a first down. The chain crew stays on the sidelines during the game, but if requested by the officials they will briefly bring the chains on to the field to measure. A typical chain crew will have at least three people – two members of the chain crew will hold either of the two sticks, while a third will hold the down marker. The down marker, a large stick with a dial on it, is flipped after each play to indicate the current down, and is typically moved to the approximate spot of the ball. The chain crew system has been used for over 100 years and is considered to be an accurate measure of distance, rarely subject to criticism from either side.\n\nFootball is a full-contact sport, and injuries are relatively common. Most injuries occur during training sessions, particularly ones that involve contact between players. To try to prevent injuries, players are required to wear a set of equipment. At a minimum players must wear a football helmet and a set of shoulder pads, but individual leagues may require additional padding such as thigh pads and guards, knee pads, chest protectors, and mouthguards. Most injuries occur in the lower extremities, particularly in the knee, but a significant number also affect the upper extremities. The most common types of injuries are strains, sprains, bruises, fractures, dislocations, and concussions.\n\nRepeated concussions (and possibly sub-concussive head impacts) can increase a person's risk in later life for CTE (chronic traumatic encephalopathy) and mental health issues such as dementia, Parkinson's disease, and depression. Concussions are often caused by helmet-to-helmet or upper-body contact between opposing players, although helmets have prevented more serious injuries such as skull fractures. Various programs are aiming to reduce concussions by reducing the frequency of helmet-to-helmet hits; USA Football's \"Heads Up Football\" program is aiming to reduce concussions in youth football by teaching coaches and players about the signs of a concussion, the proper way to wear football equipment and ensure it fits, and proper tackling methods that avoid helmet-to-helmet contact. However, a study in the \"Orthopaedic Journal of Sports Medicine\" found that Heads Up Football was ineffective; the same study noted that more extensive reforms implemented by Pop Warner Little Scholars and its member teams were effective in significantly reducing concussion rates.\n\nA 2018 study performed by the VA Boston Healthcare System and Boston University's school of medicine found that tackle football before age 12 was correlated with earlier onset of symptoms of CTE, but not with symptom severity. More specifically, each year a player played tackle football under age 12 predicted earlier onset of cognitive, behavioral, and mood problems by an average of two and a half years.\n\nThe National Football League (NFL) and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) are the most popular football leagues in the United States. The National Football League was founded in 1920 and has since become the largest and most popular sport in the United States. The NFL has the highest average attendance of any sporting league in the world, with an average attendance of 66,960 during the 2011 NFL Season. The NFL championship game is called the Super Bowl, and is among the biggest events in club sports worldwide. It is played between the champions of the National Football Conference (NFC) and the American Football Conference (AFC), and its winner is awarded the Vince Lombardi Trophy.\n\nCollege football is the third-most popular sport in the United States, behind professional baseball and professional football. The NCAA, the largest collegiate organization, is divided into three Divisions: Division I, Division II and Division III. Division I football is further divided into two subdivisions: the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) and the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). The champions of each level of play are determined through NCAA-sanctioned playoff systems; while the champion of Division I-FBS was historically determined by various polls and ranking systems, the subdivision adopted a four-team playoff system in 2014.\n\nHigh school football is the most popular sport in the United States played by boys; over 1.1 million boys participated in the sport from 2007 to 2008 according to a survey by the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS). The NFHS is the largest organization for high school football, with member associations in all 50 states as well as the District of Columbia. USA Football is the governing body for youth and amateur football, and Pop Warner Little Scholars is the largest organization for youth football.\n\nSeveral professional football leagues have been formed as rival leagues to the NFL. The most successful rival league was the American Football League (AFL), which existed from 1960 to 1969. The AFL became a significant rival in 1964 before signing a five-year, US$36 million television deal with NBC. AFL teams began to sign NFL players to contracts, and the league's popularity grew to challenge that of the NFL. The two leagues merged in the 1970 season, and all AFL teams joined the NFL. An earlier league, the All-America Football Conference, was in play from 1946 to 1949. After the league dissolved, two AAFC teams, the Cleveland Browns and the San Francisco 49ers, became members of the NFL; another member, the Baltimore Colts joined the league, but folded after just a year in the NFL.\n\nOther attempts to start rival leagues have been far less successful. The World Football League (WFL) played for two seasons, in 1974 and 1975, but faced monetary issues so severe that the league could not pay its players. In its second and final season the WFL attempted to establish a stable credit rating, but the league disbanded before its second season could be completed. The United States Football League (USFL) operated for three seasons from 1983 to 1985 but collapsed due to poor business decisions and monetary problems. A subsequent USD $1.5 billion antitrust lawsuit against the NFL was successful in court, but the league was awarded only three dollars in damages. The XFL was created in 2001 by Vince McMahon and lasted for only one season. Despite television contracts with NBC and UPN and high expectations, the XFL suffered from poor television ratings and a low quality of play. The United Football League (UFL) began in 2009, but folded after suspending its 2012 season, due to financial issues.\n\nAmerican football leagues exist throughout the world, but the game has yet to achieve the international success and popularity of baseball and basketball. NFL Europa, the developmental league of the NFL, operated from 1991 to 1992 and then from 1995 to 2007. At the time of its closure, NFL Europa had five teams based in Germany and one in the Netherlands.\n\nThe European Football League (EFL), run by the European Federation of American Football (EFAF), is an annual invitational tournament between the champions or co-champions of competitions run by EFAF members. The league's championship game is the Eurobowl. Other EFAF tournaments include the EFAF Cup, played between the top teams from national leagues in a similar manner to the UEFA Cup, the Atlantic Cup, played between teams from the Atlantic region of Europe, and the Challenge Cup, played between teams from newer federations that are not eligible to play in the EFL or EFAF Cup. American football federations are also present in Asia, Oceania, and Pan America, and a total of 64 national football federations exist as of July 2012. The International Federation of American Football (IFAF), an international body composed of American football federations, runs tournaments such as the IFAF World Championship, which is held every four years since 1999, the IFAF Women's World Championship, the IFAF U-19 World Championship and the Flag Football World Championship. The IFAF also organizes the annual International Bowl game. At the international level, Canada, Mexico, and Japan are considered to be second-tier, while Austria, Germany, and France would rank among a third tier. All of these countries rank far below the United States, which is dominant at the international level.\n\nFootball is not an Olympic sport, but it was a demonstration sport at the 1932 Summer Olympics. The IFAF has received provisional recognition from the International Olympic Committee (IOC), and a vote on making it an Olympic sport could be held as early as 2017. Several major obstacles hinder the IFAF goal of achieving status as an Olympic sport, such as the predominant participation of men in international play and the short three-week Olympic schedule. Large team sizes are an additional difficulty, due to the Olympics' set limit of 10,500 athletes and coaches. American football also has the issue of global visibility. Nigel Melville, the CEO of USA Rugby, noted that \"American football is recognized globally as a sport, but it's not played globally.\" In order to solve these concerns, major effort has been put into promoting flag football, a modified version of American football, at the international level.\n\n\"Baseball is still called the national pastime, but football is by far the more popular sport in American society\", according to ESPN.com's Sean McAdam. In a 2014 poll conducted by Harris Interactive, professional football ranked as the most popular sport, and college football ranked third behind only professional football and baseball; 46% of participants ranked some form of the game as their favorite sport. Professional football has ranked as the most popular sport in the poll since 1985, when it surpassed baseball for the first time. Professional football is most popular among those who live in the eastern United States and rural areas, while college football is most popular in the southern United States and among people with graduate and post-graduate degrees. Football is also the most-played sport by high school and college athletes in the United States. In a 2012 study, the NCAA estimated there were around 1.1 million high school football players and nearly 70,000 college football players in the United States; in comparison, the second-most played sport, basketball, had around 1 million participants in high school and 34,000 in college. The Super Bowl is the most popular single-day sporting event in the United States, and is among the biggest club sporting events in the world in terms of TV viewership. The NFL makes approximately $10 billion annually. Super Bowl games account for seven of the top eight most-watched broadcasts in American history; Super Bowl XLIX was watched by a record 114.4 million Americans.\n\nAmerican football also plays a significant role in American culture. The day on which the Super Bowl is held is considered a \"de facto\" national holiday, and in parts of the country like Texas, the sport has been compared to a religion. Football is also linked to other holidays; New Year's Day is traditionally the date for several college football bowl games, including the Rose Bowl. However, if New Year's Day is on a Sunday, the bowl games are moved to another date to not conflict with the typical NFL Sunday schedule. Thanksgiving football is an American tradition, hosting many high school, college, and professional games. Steve Deace of \"USA Today\" wrote that Americans are passionate about football \"because it embodies everything we love about American exceptionalism. Merit is rewarded, not punished. Masculinity is celebrated, not feminized. People of various beliefs and backgrounds – a melting pot, if you will – must unify for a common goal for the team to be successful\". Implicit rules such as playing through pain and sacrificing for the better of the team are promoted in football culture.\n\nThe safety of the sport has also sparked national controversy in American popular culture. It is often received as \"overly aggressive\", and defamiliarized in popular culture. The 2015 film \"Concussion\" aimed to shed light on the sport's safety, specifically in the NFL by having Will Smith portray Dr. Bennet Omalu, a neuropathologist who was the first to discover and publish findings of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE).\n\nIn Canada, the game has a significant following – according to a 2013 poll, 21% of respondents said they followed the NFL \"very closely\" or \"fairly closely\", making it the third-most followed league behind the National Hockey League (NHL) and Canadian Football League (CFL). American football also has a long history in Mexico, which was introduced to the sport in 1896. American football was the second-most popular sport in Mexico in the 1950s, with the game being particularly popular in colleges. The \"Los Angeles Times\" notes that the NFL claims over 16 million fans in Mexico, which places the country third behind the US and Canada. American football is played in Mexico both professionally and as part of the college sports system. The top American football competition in Mexico is the recently created Liga de Fútbol Americano Profesional (Professional American Football League). At the collegiate level there is the Liga Mayor of the ONEFA, a college championship founded in 1930. There is also the CONADEIP Premier Conference, another college competition founded in 2010. American football is the fifth most popular sport in Mexico and the country has the highest rating of the NFL outside the United States.\nJapan was introduced to the sport in 1934 by Paul Rusch, a teacher and Christian missionary who helped establish football teams at three universities in Tokyo. Play was halted during World War II, but began to grow in popularity again after the war. , there are more than 400 high school football teams in Japan, with over 15,000 participants, and over 100 teams play in the Kantoh Collegiate Football Association (KCFA). The college champion plays the champion of the X-League (a semi-pro league where teams are financed by corporations) in the Rice Bowl to determine Japan's national champion.\n\nEurope is a major target for expansion of the game by football organizers. In the United Kingdom in the 1980s, the sport was fairly popular, with the 1986 Super Bowl being watched by over 4 million people (about 1 out of every 14 Britons). The sport's popularity faded over the 1990s, coinciding with the establishment of the Premier League. According to BBC America, there is a \"social stigma\" surrounding American football in the UK, with many Brits feeling the sport has no right to call itself 'football' due to the small emphasis on kicking. Nonetheless, the sport has retained a following in the United Kingdom; the NFL operates a media network in the country, and since 2007 has hosted the NFL International Series in London. Super Bowl viewership has also rebounded, with over 4.4 million Britons watching Super Bowl XLVI.\n\nThe sport is played in European countries such as Switzerland, which has American football clubs in every major city, and Germany, where the sport has around 45,000 registered amateur players. In Europe, almost all nations have their own leagues, highlighting its importance those of Austria (Austrian Football League), Germany (German Football League), Great Britain (BAFA National Leagues), France (Ligue Élite de Football Américain) and Italy (Italian Football League). But in these countries American football has not yet reached the same level of popularity it has, for example, in North America. There are national teams of Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Spain and Sweden.\n\nIn Brazil, American football audience increased 800% between 2013 and 2016, according to ESPN, which is, along to Esporte Interativo, the responsible to the transmission in the country. Brazil's audience is the 3rd of the world, behind only Mexico and United States. NFL leaders visited Maracanã Stadium, in Rio de Janeiro, to verify the field. Rumors were that a Pro Bowl edition could be held there. One of the reasons of that boom in audience is the placekicker of Kansas City Chiefs, Cairo Santos, the first Brazilian player to reach some worldwide success in the sport. Also, the sport is already one of the most played around the country, with approximately 130 teams. The Superliga Nacional de Futebol Americano (National American Football Superleague) is a recently created Brazilian American football league, created and organized by the (Brazilian Confederation of American Football). To 2017, a strongest league will get start in June, including 32 teams around the country, in 4 conferences. In 2017, the famous soccer team Cruzeiro Esporte Clube joined with the 2016 America Cup's champion BH Eagles Futebol Americano, to create the Sada Cruzeiro Futebol Americano. The recent born team already won his state championship, and for the Brazilian top league already has signed with former NFL's player Nic Harris.\n\nIn other countries of South America there was a very important evolution with regard to American Football, since 2006 when has begun the practice of this sport in Argentina. Currently there are three American Football Leagues in that country: Football Americano Argentina, located in Buenos Aires, which has six teams; Córdoba Football Americano, located in Córdoba, with three teams; Rosario Football League, located in Rosario, also with three teams. In addition there are teams in the formation stage in several provinces, such as in the province of Santa Fe.\n\nIn Colombia the FECOFA (Colombian Federation of American Football) was created. Recently it formalized a strategic alliance with FLAG FOOTBALL COLOMBIA to join efforts and work together looking for the growth and development of American football in all its modalities.\n\nCanadian football, the predominant form of football in Canada, is closely related to American football – both sports developed from rugby, and the two sports are considered to be the chief variants of gridiron football. Although the two games share a similar set of rules, there are several key rule differences: for example, in Canadian football the field measures , including two 20-yard end zones (for a distance between goal lines of 110 yards), teams have three downs instead of four, there are twelve players on each side instead of eleven, fair catches are not allowed, and a rouge, worth a single point is scored if the offensive team kicks the ball out of the defense's end zone. The Canadian Football League (CFL) is the major Canadian league and is the second-most popular sporting league in Canada, behind only the National Hockey League.\n\nA major variant of football is arena football, played by the Arena Football League (AFL). Arena football has eight-player teams and uses an indoor field in length, excluding end zones, and wide. Punting is illegal, and kickoffs are attempted from the goal line. Large overhead nets deflect forward passes and kicks that hit them, and deflected kicks are live balls that may be recovered by either team.\n\nBelow the Arena Football League are what \"The New York Times\" writer Mike Tanier described as the \"most minor of minor leagues:\" indoor football leagues. Like in arena football, teams in indoor football leagues play in arenas, but games are only attended by a small number of fans, and most players are semi-professional athletes. Indoor football leagues are unstable, with franchises regularly moving from one league to another or merging with other teams, and teams or entire leagues dissolving entirely. The Indoor Football League, National Arena League, Champions Indoor Football and American Arena League are examples of prominent indoor leagues that are active as of 2017.\n\nThere are several non-contact variants of American football, such as flag football. In flag football the ballcarrier is not tackled; instead, defenders aim to pull a flag tied around their waist. Another variant, touch football, simply requires the ballcarrier to be touched to be considered downed. A game of touch football may require that the player be touched with either one or two hands to be considered down, depending on the rules used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078", "title": "Antisemitism", "text": "Antisemitism\n\nAntisemitism (also spelled anti-Semitism or anti-semitism) is hostility to, prejudice, or discrimination against Jews. A person who holds such positions is called an antisemite. Antisemitism is generally considered to be a form of racism. It has also been characterized as a political ideology which serves as an organizing principle and unites disparate groups which are opposed to liberalism.\n\nAntisemitism may be manifested in many ways, ranging from expressions of hatred of or discrimination against individual Jews to organized pogroms by mobs, state police, or even military attacks on entire Jewish communities. Although the term did not come into common usage until the 19th century, it is now also applied to historic anti-Jewish incidents. Notable instances of persecution include the Rhineland massacres preceding the First Crusade in 1096, the Edict of Expulsion from England in 1290, the massacres of Spanish Jews in 1391, the persecutions of the Spanish Inquisition, the expulsion from Spain in 1492, the Cossack massacres in Ukraine from 1648 to 1657, various anti-Jewish pogroms in the Russian Empire between 1821 and 1906, the 1894–1906 Dreyfus affair in France, the Holocaust in German-occupied Europe during World War II, Soviet anti-Jewish policies, and Arab and Muslim involvement in the Jewish exodus from Arab and Muslim countries.\n\nThe root word \"\" gives the false impression that antisemitism is directed against all Semitic people, \"e.g.\", including Arabs and Assyrians. The compound word \"antisemite\" was popularized in Germany in 1879 as a scientific-sounding term for \"Judenhass\" (\"Jew-hatred\"), and this has been its common use since then.\n\nThe origin of \"antisemitic\" terminologies is found in the responses of Moritz Steinschneider to the views of Ernest Renan. As Alex Bein writes: \"The compound anti-Semitism appears to have been used first by Steinschneider, who challenged Renan on account of his 'anti-Semitic prejudices' [i.e., his derogation of the \"Semites\" as a race].\" Avner Falk similarly writes: 'The German word \"antisemitisch\" was first used in 1860 by the Austrian Jewish scholar Moritz Steinschneider (1816–1907) in the phrase \"antisemitische Vorurteile\" (antisemitic prejudices). Steinschneider used this phrase to characterise the French philosopher Ernest Renan's false ideas about how \"Semitic races\" were inferior to \"Aryan races\"'.\n\nPseudoscientific theories concerning race, civilization, and \"progress\" had become quite widespread in Europe in the second half of the 19th century, especially as Prussian nationalistic historian Heinrich von Treitschke did much to promote this form of racism. He coined the phrase \"the Jews are our misfortune\" which would later be widely used by Nazis. According to Avner Falk, Treitschke uses the term \"Semitic\" almost synonymously with \"Jewish\", in contrast to Renan's use of it to refer to a whole range of peoples, based generally on linguistic criteria.\n\nAccording to Jonathan M. Hess, the term was originally used by its authors to \"stress the radical difference between their own 'antisemitism' and earlier forms of antagonism toward Jews and Judaism.\"\n\nIn 1879 German journalist Wilhelm Marr published a pamphlet, \"Der Sieg des Judenthums über das Germanenthum. Vom nicht confessionellen Standpunkt aus betrachtet\" (\"The Victory of the Jewish Spirit over the Germanic Spirit. Observed from a non-religious perspective\") in which he used the word \"Semitismus\" interchangeably with the word \"Judentum\" to denote both \"Jewry\" (the Jews as a collective) and \"jewishness\" (the quality of being Jewish, or the Jewish spirit).\n\nThis use of \"\" was followed by a coining of \"\" which was used to indicate opposition to the Jews as a people and opposition to the Jewish spirit, which Marr interpreted as infiltrating German culture. His next pamphlet, \"Der Weg zum Siege des Germanenthums über das Judenthum\" (\"The Way to Victory of the Germanic Spirit over the Jewish Spirit\", 1880), presents a development of Marr's ideas further and may present the first published use of the German word \" Antisemitismus\", \"antisemitism\".\n\nThe pamphlet became very popular, and in the same year he founded the \"Antisemiten-Liga\" (League of Antisemites), apparently named to follow the \"Anti-Kanzler-Liga\" (Anti-Chancellor League). The league was the first German organization committed specifically to combating the alleged threat to Germany and German culture posed by the Jews and their influence, and advocating their forced removal from the country.\n\nSo far as can be ascertained, the word was first widely printed in 1881, when Marr published \"Zwanglose Antisemitische Hefte\", and Wilhelm Scherer used the term \"Antisemiten\" in the January issue of \"Neue Freie Presse\".\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia reports, \"In February 1881, a correspondent of the \"Allgemeine Zeitung des Judentums\" speaks of 'Anti-Semitism' as a designation which recently came into use (\"Allg. Zeit. d. Jud.\" 1881, p. 138). On 19 July 1882, the editor says, 'This quite recent Anti-Semitism is hardly three years old.'\"\n\nThe related term \"philosemitism\" was coined around 1885.\n\nFrom the outset the term anti-Semitism bore special racial connotations and meant specifically prejudice against Jews. The term is confusing, for in modern usage 'Semitic' designates a language group, not a race. In this sense, the term is a misnomer, since there are many speakers of Semitic languages (e.g. Arabs, Ethiopians, and Assyrians) who are not the objects of anti-Semitic prejudices, while there are many Jews who do not speak Hebrew, a Semitic language. Though 'antisemitism' has been used to describe prejudice against people who speak other Semitic languages, the validity of such usage has been questioned.\n\nThe term may be spelled with or without a hyphen (antisemitism or anti-Semitism). Some scholars favor the unhyphenated form because, \"If you use the hyphenated form, you consider the words 'Semitism', 'Semite', 'Semitic' as meaningful\" whereas \"in antisemitic parlance, 'Semites' really stands for Jews, just that.\" For example, Emil Fackenheim supported the unhyphenated spelling, in order to \"[dispel] the notion that there is an entity 'Semitism' which 'anti-Semitism' opposes.\" Others endorsing an unhyphenated term for the same reason include Padraic O'Hare, professor of Religious and Theological Studies and Director of the Center for the Study of Jewish-Christian-Muslim Relations at Merrimack College; Yehuda Bauer, professor of Holocaust studies at the Avraham Harman Institute of Contemporary Jewry at Hebrew University of Jerusalem; and James Carroll, historian and novelist. According to Carroll, who first cites O'Hare and Bauer on \"the existence of something called 'Semitism'\", \"the hyphenated word thus reflects the bipolarity that is at the heart of the problem of antisemitism\".\n\nObjections to the usage of the term, such as the obsolete nature of the term Semitic as a racial term, have been raised since at least the 1930s.\n\nThough the general definition of antisemitism is hostility or prejudice against Jews, and, according to Olaf Blaschke, has become an \"umbrella term for negative stereotypes about Jews\", a number of authorities have developed more formal definitions.\n\nHolocaust scholar and City University of New York professor Helen Fein defines it as \"a persisting latent structure of hostile beliefs towards Jews as a collective manifested in individuals as attitudes, and in culture as myth, ideology, folklore and imagery, and in actions—social or legal discrimination, political mobilization against the Jews, and collective or state violence—which results in and/or is designed to distance, displace, or destroy Jews as Jews.\"\n\nElaborating on Fein's definition, Dietz Bering of the University of Cologne writes that, to antisemites, \"Jews are not only partially but totally bad by nature, that is, their bad traits are incorrigible. Because of this bad nature: (1) Jews have to be seen not as individuals but as a collective. (2) Jews remain essentially alien in the surrounding societies. (3) Jews bring disaster on their 'host societies' or on the whole world, they are doing it secretly, therefore the anti-Semites feel obliged to unmask the conspiratorial, bad Jewish character.\"\n\nFor Sonja Weinberg, as distinct from economic and religious anti-Judaism, antisemitism in its modern form shows conceptual innovation, a resort to 'science' to defend itself, new functional forms and organisational differences. It was anti-liberal, racialist and nationalist. It promoted the myth that Jews conspired to 'judaise' the world; it served to consolidate social identity; it channeled dissatisfactions among victims of the capitalist system; and it was used as a conservative cultural code to fight emancipation and liberalism.\nBernard Lewis defines antisemitism as a special case of prejudice, hatred, or persecution directed against people who are in some way different from the rest. According to Lewis, antisemitism is marked by two distinct features: Jews are judged according to a standard different from that applied to others, and they are accused of \"cosmic evil.\" Thus, \"it is perfectly possible to hate and even to persecute Jews without necessarily being anti-Semitic\" unless this hatred or persecution displays one of the two features specific to antisemitism.\n\nThere have been a number of efforts by international and governmental bodies to define antisemitism formally. The United States Department of State states that \"while there is no universally accepted definition, there is a generally clear understanding of what the term encompasses.\" For the purposes of its 2005 Report on Global Anti-Semitism, the term was considered to mean \"hatred toward Jews—individually and as a group—that can be attributed to the Jewish religion and/or ethnicity.\"\n\nIn 2005, the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (now Fundamental Rights Agency), then an agency of the European Union, developed a more detailed working definition, which states: \"Antisemitism is a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.\" It also adds that \"such manifestations could also target the state of Israel, conceived as a Jewish collectivity,\" but that \"criticism of Israel similar to that leveled against any other country cannot be regarded as antisemitic.\" It provides contemporary examples of ways in which antisemitism may manifest itself, including: promoting the harming of Jews in the name of an ideology or religion; promoting negative stereotypes of Jews; holding Jews collectively responsible for the actions of an individual Jewish person or group; denying the Holocaust or accusing Jews or Israel of exaggerating it; and accusing Jews of dual loyalty or a greater allegiance to Israel than their own country. It also lists ways in which attacking Israel could be antisemitic, and states that denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination, e.g. by claiming that the existence of a state of Israel is a racist endeavor, can be a manifestation of antisemitism—as can applying double standards by requiring of Israel a behavior not expected or demanded of any other democratic nation, or holding Jews collectively responsible for the actions of the State of Israel. Late in 2013, the definition was removed from the website of the Fundamental Rights Agency. A spokesperson said that it had never been regarded as official and that the agency did not intend to develop its own definition. However, despite its disappearance from the website of the Fundamental Rights Agency, the definition has gained widespread international use. The definition has been adopted by the European Parliament Working Group on Antisemitism, in 2010 it was adopted by the United States Department of State, in 2014 it was adopted in the Operational Hate Crime Guidance of the UK College of Policing and was also adopted by the Campaign Against Antisemitism, and in 2016 it was adopted by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, making it the most widely adopted definition of antisemitism around the world.\nIn 1879, Wilhelm Marr founded the \"Antisemiten-Liga\" (Anti-Semitic League). Identification with antisemitism and as an antisemite was politically advantageous in Europe during the late 19th century. For example, Karl Lueger, the popular mayor of fin de siècle Vienna, skillfully exploited antisemitism as a way of channeling public discontent to his political advantage. In its 1910 obituary of Lueger, \"The New York Times\" notes that Lueger was \"Chairman of the Christian Social Union of the Parliament and of the Anti-Semitic Union of the Diet of Lower Austria. In 1895 A. C. Cuza organized the \"Alliance Anti-semitique Universelle\" in Bucharest. In the period before World War II, when animosity towards Jews was far more commonplace, it was not uncommon for a person, an organization, or a political party to self-identify as an antisemite or antisemitic.\n\nThe early Zionist pioneer Leon Pinsker, a professional physician, preferred the clinical-sounding term \"Judeophobia\" to antisemitism, which he regarded as a misnomer. The word \"Judeophobia\" first appeared in his pamphlet \"Auto-Emancipation\", published anonymously in German in September 1882, where it was described as an irrational fear or hatred of Jews. According to Pinsker, this irrational fear was an inherited predisposition. \n\nIn the aftermath of the Kristallnacht pogrom in 1938, German propaganda minister Goebbels announced: \"The German people is anti-Semitic. It has no desire to have its rights restricted or to be provoked in the future by parasites of the Jewish race.\"\n\nAfter the 1945 victory of the Allies over Nazi Germany, and particularly after the full extent of the Nazi genocide against the Jews became known, the term \"anti-Semitism\" acquired pejorative connotations. This marked a full circle shift in usage, from an era just decades earlier when \"Jew\" was used as a pejorative term. Yehuda Bauer wrote in 1984: \"There are no anti-Semites in the world ... Nobody says, 'I am anti-Semitic.' You cannot, after Hitler. The word has gone out of fashion.\"\n\nAntisemitism manifests itself in a variety of ways. René König mentions social antisemitism, economic antisemitism, religious antisemitism, and political antisemitism as examples. König points out that these different forms demonstrate that the \"origins of anti-Semitic prejudices are rooted in different historical periods.\" König asserts that differences in the chronology of different antisemitic prejudices and the irregular distribution of such prejudices over different segments of the population create \"serious difficulties in the definition of the different kinds of anti-Semitism.\" These difficulties may contribute to the existence of different taxonomies that have been developed to categorize the forms of antisemitism. The forms identified are substantially the same; it is primarily the number of forms and their definitions that differ. Bernard Lazare identifies three forms of antisemitism: Christian antisemitism, economic antisemitism, and ethnologic antisemitism.\nWilliam Brustein names four categories: religious, racial, economic and political. The Roman Catholic historian Edward Flannery distinguished four varieties of antisemitism:\n\nLouis Harap separates \"economic antisemitism\" and merges \"political\" and \"nationalistic\" antisemitism into \"ideological antisemitism\". Harap also adds a category of \"social antisemitism\".\n\nGustavo Perednik has argued that what he terms \"Judeophobia\" has a number of unique traits which set it apart from other forms of racism, including permanence, depth, obsessiveness, irrationality, endurance, ubiquity, and danger. He also wrote in his book \"The Judeophobia\" that \"The Jews were accused by the nationalists of being the creators of Communism; by the Communists of ruling Capitalism. If they live in non-Jewish countries, they are accused of double-loyalties; if they live in the Jewish country, of being racists. When they spend their money, they are reproached for being ostentatious; when they don't spend their money, of being avaricious. They are called rootless cosmopolitans or hardened chauvinists. If they assimilate, they are accused of being fifth-columnists, if they don't, of shutting themselves away.\"\n\nHarvard professor Ruth Wisse has argued that antisemitism is a political ideology that authoritarians use to consolidate power by unifying disparate groups. One example she gives is the alleged antisemitism within the United Nations, which, in this view, functioned during the Cold War as a coalition-building technique between Soviet and Arab states, but now serves the same purpose among states opposed to the type of human-rights ideology for which the UN was created. She also cites as an example the formation of the Arab League.\n\nLouis Harap defines cultural antisemitism as \"that species of anti-Semitism that charges the Jews with corrupting a given culture and attempting to supplant or succeeding in supplanting the preferred culture with a uniform, crude, \"Jewish\" culture. Similarly, Eric Kandel characterizes cultural antisemitism as being based on the idea of \"Jewishness\" as a \"religious or cultural tradition that is acquired through learning, through distinctive traditions and education.\" According to Kandel, this form of antisemitism views Jews as possessing \"unattractive psychological and social characteristics that are acquired through acculturation.\" Niewyk and Nicosia characterize cultural antisemitism as focusing on and condemning \"the Jews' aloofness from the societies in which they live.\"\nAn important feature of cultural antisemitism is that it considers the negative attributes of Judaism to be redeemable by education or by religious conversion.\n\nReligious antisemitism, also known as anti-Judaism, is antipathy towards Jews because of their perceived religious beliefs. In theory, antisemitism and attacks against individual Jews would stop if Jews stopped practicing Judaism or changed their public faith, especially by conversion to the official or right religion. However, in some cases discrimination continues after conversion, as in the case of Christianized \"Marranos\" or Iberian Jews in the late 15th century and 16th century who were suspected of secretly practising Judaism or Jewish customs.\n\nAlthough the origins of antisemitism are rooted in the Judeo-Christian conflict, other forms of antisemitism have developed in modern times. Frederick Schweitzer asserts that, \"most scholars ignore the Christian foundation on which the modern antisemitic edifice rests and invoke political antisemitism, cultural antisemitism, racism or racial antisemitism, economic antisemitism and the like.\" William Nichols draws a distinction between religious antisemitism and modern antisemitism based on racial or ethnic grounds: \"The dividing line was the possibility of effective conversion [...] a Jew ceased to be a Jew upon baptism.\" From the perspective of racial antisemitism, however, \"the assimilated Jew was still a Jew, even after baptism.[...] From the Enlightenment onward, it is no longer possible to draw clear lines of distinction between religious and racial forms of hostility towards Jews[...] Once Jews have been emancipated and secular thinking makes its appearance, without leaving behind the old Christian hostility towards Jews, the new term antisemitism becomes almost unavoidable, even before explicitly racist doctrines appear.\"\n\nSome Christians such as the Catholic priest Ernest Jouin, who published the first French translation of the \"Protocols\", combined religious and racial anti-Semitism, as in his statement that \"From the triple viewpoint of race, of nationality, and of religion, the Jew has become the enemy of humanity.\" The virulent anti-Semitism of Édouard Drumont, one of the most widely read Catholic writers in France during the Dreyfus Affair, likewise combined religious and racial anti-Semitism.\n\nThe underlying premise of economic antisemitism is that Jews perform harmful economic activities or that economic activities become harmful when they are performed by Jews.\n\nLinking Jews and money underpins the most damaging and lasting Antisemitic canards. Antisemites claim that Jews control the world finances, a theory promoted in the fraudulent Protocols of the Elders of Zion, and later repeated by Henry Ford and his Dearborn Independent. In the modern era, such myths continue to be spread in books such as \"The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews\" published by the Nation of Islam, and on the internet.\nDerek Penslar writes that there are two components to the financial canards:\n\nAbraham Foxman describes six facets of the financial canards:\n\nGerald Krefetz summarizes the myth as \"[Jews] control the banks, the money supply, the economy, and businesses—of the community, of the country, of the world\". Krefetz gives, as illustrations, many slurs and proverbs (in several different languages) which suggest that Jews are stingy, or greedy, or miserly, or aggressive bargainers. During the nineteenth century, Jews were described as \"scurrilous, stupid, and tight-fisted\", but after the Jewish Emancipation and the rise of Jews to the middle- or upper-class in Europe were portrayed as \"clever, devious, and manipulative financiers out to dominate [world finances]\".\n\nLéon Poliakov asserts that economic antisemitism is not a distinct form of antisemitism, but merely a manifestation of theologic antisemitism (because, without the theological causes of the economic antisemitism, there would be no economic antisemitism). In opposition to this view, Derek Penslar contends that in the modern era, the economic antisemitism is \"distinct and nearly constant\" but theological antisemitism is \"often subdued\".\n\nAn academic study by Francesco D'Acunto, Marcel Prokopczuk, and Michael Weber showed that people who live in areas of Germany that contain the most brutal history of anti-Semitic persecution are more likely to be distrustful of finance in general. Therefore, they tended to invest less money in the stock market and make poor financial decisions. The study concluded \"that the persecution of minorities reduces not only the long-term wealth of the persecuted, but of the persecutors as well.\"\n\nRacial antisemitism is prejudice against Jews as a racial/ethnic group, rather than Judaism as a religion.\n\nRacial antisemitism is the idea that the Jews are a distinct and inferior race compared to their host nations. In the late 19th century and early 20th century, it gained mainstream acceptance as part of the eugenics movement, which categorized non-Europeans as inferior. It more specifically claimed that Northern Europeans, or \"Aryans\", were superior. Racial antisemites saw the Jews as part of a Semitic race and emphasized their non-European origins and culture. They saw Jews as beyond redemption even if they converted to the majority religion.\n\nRacial antisemitism replaced the hatred of Judaism with the hatred of Jews as a group. In the context of the Industrial Revolution, following the Jewish Emancipation, Jews rapidly urbanized and experienced a period of greater social mobility. With the decreasing role of religion in public life tempering religious antisemitism, a combination of growing nationalism, the rise of eugenics, and resentment at the socio-economic success of the Jews led to the newer, and more virulent, racist antisemitism.\n\nAccording to William Nichols, religious antisemitism may be distinguished from modern antisemitism based on racial or ethnic grounds. \"The dividing line was the possibility of effective conversion... a Jew ceased to be a Jew upon baptism.\" However, with racial antisemitism, \"Now the assimilated Jew was still a Jew, even after baptism... From the Enlightenment onward, it is no longer possible to draw clear lines of distinction between religious and racial forms of hostility towards Jews... Once Jews have been emancipated and secular thinking makes its appearance, without leaving behind the old Christian hostility towards Jews, the new term antisemitism becomes almost unavoidable, even before explicitly racist doctrines appear.\"\n\nIn the early 19th century, a number of laws enabling emancipation of the Jews were enacted in Western European countries. The old laws restricting them to ghettos, as well as the many laws that limited their property rights, rights of worship and occupation, were rescinded. Despite this, traditional discrimination and hostility to Jews on religious grounds persisted and was supplemented by racial antisemitism, encouraged by the work of racial theorists such as Joseph Arthur de Gobineau and particularly his \"Essay on the Inequality of the Human Race\" of 1853–5. Nationalist agendas based on ethnicity, known as ethnonationalism, usually excluded the Jews from the national community as an alien race. Allied to this were theories of Social Darwinism, which stressed a putative conflict between higher and lower races of human beings. Such theories, usually posited by northern Europeans, advocated the superiority of white Aryans to Semitic Jews.\n\nWilliam Brustein defines political antisemitism as hostility toward Jews based on the belief that Jews seek national and/or world power.\" Yisrael Gutman characterizes political antisemitism as tending to \"lay responsibility on the Jews for defeats and political economic crises\" while seeking to \"exploit opposition and resistance to Jewish influence as elements in political party platforms.\"\n\nAccording to Viktor Karády, political antisemitism became widespread after the legal emancipation of the Jews and sought to reverse some of the consequences of that emancipation.\nHolocaust denial and Jewish conspiracy theories are also considered forms of antisemitism. Zoological conspiracy theories have been propagated by Arab media and Arabic language websites, alleging a \"Zionist plot\" behind the use of animals to attack civilians or to conduct espionage.\n\nStarting in the 1990s, some scholars have advanced the concept of new antisemitism, coming simultaneously from the left, the right, and radical Islam, which tends to focus on opposition to the creation of a Jewish homeland in the State of Israel, and they argue that the language of anti-Zionism and criticism of Israel are used to attack Jews more broadly. In this view, the proponents of the new concept believe that criticisms of Israel and Zionism are often disproportionate in degree and unique in kind, and they attribute this to antisemitism. Jewish scholar Gustavo Perednik posited in 2004 that anti-Zionism in itself represents a form of discrimination against Jews, in that it singles out Jewish national aspirations as an illegitimate and racist endeavor, and \"proposes actions that would result in the death of millions of Jews\". It is asserted that the new antisemitism deploys traditional antisemitic motifs, including older motifs such as the blood libel.\n\nCritics of the concept view it as trivializing the meaning of antisemitism, and as exploiting antisemitism in order to silence debate and to deflect attention from legitimate criticism of the State of Israel, and, by associating anti-Zionism with antisemitism, misused to taint anyone opposed to Israeli actions and policies.\n\nGerman indologists arbitrarily identified \"layers\" in the Mahabharata and Bhagavad Gita with the objective of fueling European anti-Semitism via the Indo-Aryan migration theory. This identification required equating Brahmins with Jews, resulting in anti-Brahmanism.\n\nMany authors see the roots of modern antisemitism in both pagan antiquity and early Christianity. Jerome Chanes identifies six stages in the historical development of antisemitism:\n\nChanes suggests that these six stages could be merged into three categories: \"ancient antisemitism, which was primarily ethnic in nature; Christian antisemitism, which was religious; and the racial antisemitism of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.\"\n\nThe first clear examples of anti-Jewish sentiment can be traced to the 3rd century BCE to Alexandria, the home to the largest Jewish diaspora community in the world at the time and where the Septuagint, a Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, was produced. Manetho, an Egyptian priest and historian of that era, wrote scathingly of the Jews. His themes are repeated in the works of Chaeremon, Lysimachus, Poseidonius, Apollonius Molon, and in Apion and Tacitus. Agatharchides of Cnidus ridiculed the practices of the Jews and the \"absurdity of their Law\", making a mocking reference to how Ptolemy Lagus was able to invade Jerusalem in 320 BCE because its inhabitants were observing the \"Shabbat\". One of the earliest anti-Jewish edicts, promulgated by Antiochus IV Epiphanes in about 170–167 BCE, sparked a revolt of the Maccabees in Judea.\n\nIn view of Manetho's anti-Jewish writings, antisemitism may have originated in Egypt and been spread by \"the Greek retelling of Ancient Egyptian prejudices\". The ancient Jewish philosopher Philo of Alexandria describes an attack on Jews in Alexandria in 38 CE in which thousands of Jews died. The violence in Alexandria may have been caused by the Jews being portrayed as misanthropes. Tcherikover argues that the reason for hatred of Jews in the Hellenistic period was their separateness in the Greek cities, the \"poleis\". Bohak has argued, however, that early animosity against the Jews cannot be regarded as being anti-Judaic or antisemitic unless it arose from attitudes that were held against the Jews alone, and that many Greeks showed animosity toward any group they regarded as barbarians.\nStatements exhibiting prejudice against Jews and their religion can be found in the works of many pagan Greek and Roman writers. Edward Flannery writes that it was the Jews' refusal to accept Greek religious and social standards that marked them out. Hecataetus of Abdera, a Greek historian of the early third century BCE, wrote that Moses \"in remembrance of the exile of his people, instituted for them a misanthropic and inhospitable way of life.\" Manetho, an Egyptian historian, wrote that the Jews were expelled Egyptian lepers who had been taught by Moses \"not to adore the gods.\" Edward Flannery describes antisemitism in ancient times as essentially \"cultural, taking the shape of a national xenophobia played out in political settings.\"\n\nThere are examples of Hellenistic rulers desecrating the Temple and banning Jewish religious practices, such as circumcision, Shabbat observance, study of Jewish religious books, etc. Examples may also be found in anti-Jewish riots in Alexandria in the 3rd century BCE.\n\nThe Jewish diaspora on the Nile island Elephantine, which was founded by mercenaries, experienced the destruction of its temple in 410 BCE.\n\nRelationships between the Jewish people and the occupying Roman Empire were at times antagonistic and resulted in several rebellions. According to Suetonius, the emperor Tiberius expelled from Rome Jews who had gone to live there. The 18th-century English historian Edward Gibbon identified a more tolerant period in Roman-Jewish relations beginning in about 160 CE. However, when Christianity became the state religion of the Roman Empire, the state's attitude towards the Jews gradually worsened.\n\nJames Carroll asserted: \"Jews accounted for 10% of the total population of the Roman Empire. By that ratio, if other factors such as pogroms and conversions had not intervened, there would be 200 million Jews in the world today, instead of something like 13 million.\"\n\nIn the late 6th century CE, the newly Catholicised Visigothic kingdom in Hispania issued a series of anti-Jewish edicts which forbad Jews from marrying Christians, practicing circumcision, and observing Jewish holy days. Continuing throughout the 7th century, both Visigothic kings and the Church were active in creating social aggression and towards Jews with \"civic and ecclesiastic punishments\", ranging between forced conversion, slavery, exile and death.\n\nFrom the 9th century, the medieval Islamic world classified Jews and Christians as \"dhimmis\", and allowed Jews to practice their religion more freely than they could do in medieval Christian Europe. Under Islamic rule, there was a Golden age of Jewish culture in Spain that lasted until at least the 11th century. It ended when several Muslim pogroms against Jews took place on the Iberian Peninsula, including those that occurred in Córdoba in 1011 and in Granada in 1066. Several decrees ordering the destruction of synagogues were also enacted in Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Yemen from the 11th century. In addition, Jews were forced to convert to Islam or face death in some parts of Yemen, Morocco and Baghdad several times between the 12th and 18th centuries. The Almohads, who had taken control of the Almoravids' Maghribi and Andalusian territories by 1147, were far more fundamentalist in outlook compared to their predecessors, and they treated the \"dhimmis\" harshly. Faced with the choice of either death or conversion, many Jews and Christians emigrated. Some, such as the family of Maimonides, fled east to more tolerant Muslim lands, while some others went northward to settle in the growing Christian kingdoms.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages in Europe there was persecution against Jews in many places, with blood libels, expulsions, forced conversions and massacres. A main justification of prejudice against Jews in Europe was religious.\n\nThe persecution hit its first peak during the Crusades. In the First Crusade (1096) hundreds or even thousands of Jews were killed as the crusaders arrived. This was the first major outbreak of anti-Jewish violence in Christian Europe outside Spain and was cited by Zionists in the 19th century as indicating the need for a state of Israel.\n\nIn the Second Crusade (1147) the Jews in Germany were subject to several massacres. The Jews were also subjected to attacks by the Shepherds' Crusades of 1251 and 1320, as well as Rintfleisch knights in 1298. The Crusades were followed by expulsions, including, in 1290, the banishing of all English Jews; in 1394, the expulsion of 100,000 Jews in France; and in 1421, the expulsion of thousands from Austria. Many of the expelled Jews fled to Poland. In medieval and Renaissance Europe, a major contributor to the deepening of antisemitic sentiment and legal action among the Christian populations was the popular preaching of the zealous reform religious orders, the Franciscans (especially Bernardino of Feltre) and Dominicans (especially Vincent Ferrer), who combed Europe and promoted antisemitism through their often fiery, emotional appeals.\n\nAs the Black Death epidemics devastated Europe in the mid-14th century, causing the death of a large part of the population, Jews were used as scapegoats. Rumors spread that they caused the disease by deliberately poisoning wells. Hundreds of Jewish communities were destroyed in numerous persecutions. Although Pope Clement VI tried to protect them by issuing two papal bulls in 1348, the first on 6 July and an additional one several months later, 900 Jews were burned alive in Strasbourg, where the plague had not yet affected the city.\n\nDuring the mid-to-late 17th century the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was devastated by several conflicts, in which the Commonwealth lost over a third of its population (over 3 million people), and Jewish losses were counted in the hundreds of thousands. The first of these conflicts was the Khmelnytsky Uprising, when Bohdan Khmelnytsky's supporters massacred tens of thousands of Jews in the eastern and southern areas he controlled (today's Ukraine). The precise number of dead may never be known, but the decrease of the Jewish population during that period is estimated at 100,000 to 200,000, which also includes emigration, deaths from diseases and captivity in the Ottoman Empire, called \"jasyr\".\n\nEuropean immigrants to the United States brought antisemitism to the country as early as the 17th century. Peter Stuyvesant, the Dutch governor of New Amsterdam, implemented plans to prevent Jews from settling in the city. During the Colonial Era, the American government limited the political and economic rights of Jews. It was not until the American Revolutionary War that Jews gained legal rights, including the right to vote. However, even at their peak, the restrictions on Jews in the United States were never as stringent as they had been in Europe.\n\nIn the Zaydi imamate of Yemen, Jews were also singled out for discrimination in the 17th century, which culminated in the general expulsion of all Jews from places in Yemen to the arid coastal plain of Tihamah and which became known as the Mawza Exile.\n\nIn 1744, Frederick II of Prussia limited the number of Jews allowed to live in Breslau to only ten so-called \"protected\" Jewish families and encouraged a similar practice in other Prussian cities. In 1750 he issued the \"Revidiertes General Privilegium und Reglement vor die Judenschaft\": the \"protected\" Jews had an alternative to \"either abstain from marriage or leave Berlin\" (quoting Simon Dubnow). In the same year, Archduchess of Austria Maria Theresa ordered Jews out of Bohemia but soon reversed her position, on the condition that Jews pay for their readmission every ten years. This extortion was known as \"malke-geld\" (queen's money). In 1752 she introduced the law limiting each Jewish family to one son. In 1782, Joseph II abolished most of these persecution practices in his \"Toleranzpatent\", on the condition that Yiddish and Hebrew were eliminated from public records and that judicial autonomy was annulled. Moses Mendelssohn wrote that \"Such a tolerance... is even more dangerous play in tolerance than open persecution.\"\n\nAccording to Arnold Ages, Voltaire's \"Lettres philosophiques, Dictionnaire philosophique, and Candide, to name but a few of his better known works, are saturated with comments on Jews and Judaism and the vast majority are negative\". Paul H. Meyer adds: \"There is no question but that Voltaire, particularly in his latter years, nursed a violent hatred of the Jews and it is equally certain that his animosity...did have a considerable impact on public opinion in France.\" Thirty of the 118 articles in Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire Philosophique\" concerned Jews and described them in consistently negative ways.\n\nThe counter-revolutionary Catholic royalist Louis de Bonald stands out among the earliest figures to explicitly call for the reversal of Jewish emancipation in the wake of the French Revolution. Bonald's attacks on the Jews are likely to have influenced Napoleon's decision to limit the civil rights of Alsatian Jews. Bonald's article \"Sur les juifs\" (1806) was one of the most venomous screeds of its era and furnished a paradigm which combined anti-liberalism, a defense of a rural society, traditional Christian antisemitism, and the identification of Jews with bankers and finance capital, which would in turn influence many subsequent right-wing reactionaries such as Roger Gougenot des Mousseaux, Charles Maurras, and Édouard Drumont, nationalists such as Maurice Barrès and Paolo Orano, and anti-Semitic socialists such as Alphonse Toussenel. Bonald furthermore declared that the Jews were an \"alien\" people, a \"state within a state\", and should be forced to wear a distinctive mark to more easily identify and discriminate against them.\n\nUnder the French Second Empire, the popular counter-revolutionary Catholic journalist Louis Veuillot propagated Bonald's arguments against the Jewish \"financial aristocracy\" along with vicious attacks against the Talmud and the Jews as a \"deicidal people\" driven by hatred to \"enslave\" Christians. Between 1882 and 1886 alone, French priests published twenty antisemitic books blaming France's ills on the Jews and urging the government to consign them back to the ghettos, expel them, or hang them from the gallows. Gougenot des Mousseaux's \"Le Juif, le judaïsme et la judaïsation des peuples chrétiens\" (1869) has been called a \"Bible of modern antisemitism\" and was translated into German by Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg.\n\nThousands of Jews were slaughtered by Cossack Haidamaks in the 1768 massacre of Uman in the Kingdom of Poland. In 1772, the empress of Russia Catherine II forced the Jews into the Pale of Settlement – which was located primarily in present-day Poland, Ukraine and Belarus – and to stay in their shtetls and forbade them from returning to the towns that they occupied before the partition of Poland. From 1804, Jews were banned from their villages, and began to stream into the towns. A decree by emperor Nicholas I of Russia in 1827 conscripted Jews under 18 years of age into the cantonist schools for a 25-year military service in order to promote baptism.\nPolicy towards Jews was liberalised somewhat under Czar Alexander II (). However, his assassination in 1881 served as a pretext for further repression such as the May Laws of 1882. Konstantin Pobedonostsev, nicknamed the \"black czar\" and tutor to the czarevitch, later crowned Czar Nicholas II, declared that \"One third of the Jews must die, one third must emigrate, and one third be converted to Christianity\".\n\nHistorian Martin Gilbert writes that it was in the 19th century that the position of Jews worsened in Muslim countries. Benny Morris writes that one symbol of Jewish degradation was the phenomenon of stone-throwing at Jews by Muslim children. Morris quotes a 19th-century traveler: \"I have seen a little fellow of six years old, with a troop of fat toddlers of only three and four, teaching [them] to throw stones at a Jew, and one little urchin would, with the greatest coolness, waddle up to the man and literally spit upon his Jewish gaberdine. To all this the Jew is obliged to submit; it would be more than his life was worth to offer to strike a Mahommedan.\"\n\nIn the middle of the 19th century, J. J. Benjamin wrote about the life of Persian Jews, describing conditions and beliefs that went back to the 16th century: \"…they are obliged to live in a separate part of town… Under the pretext of their being unclean, they are treated with the greatest severity and should they enter a street, inhabited by Mussulmans, they are pelted by the boys and mobs with stones and dirt….\"\n\nIn Jerusalem at least, conditions for some Jews improved. Moses Montefiore, on his seventh visit in 1875, noted that fine new buildings had sprung up and; 'surely we're approaching the time to witness God's hallowed promise unto Zion.' Muslim and Christian Arabs participated in Purim and Passover; Arabs called the Sephardis 'Jews, sons of Arabs'; the Ulema and the Rabbis offered joint prayers for rain in time of drought.\n\nAt the time of the Dreyfus trial in France, 'Muslim comments usually favoured the persecuted Jew against his Christian persecutors'.\n\nIn 1850 the German composer Richard Wagner – who has been called \"the inventor of modern antisemitism\" – published \"Das Judenthum in der Musik\" (roughly \"Jewishness in Music\") under a pseudonym in the \"Neue Zeitschrift für Musik\". The essay began as an attack on Jewish composers, particularly Wagner's contemporaries, and rivals, Felix Mendelssohn and Giacomo Meyerbeer, but expanded to accuse Jews of being a harmful and alien element in German culture, who corrupted morals and were, in fact, parasites incapable of creating truly \"German\" art. The crux was the manipulation and control by the Jews of the money economy:\n\nAccording to the present constitution of this world, the Jew in truth is already more than emancipated: he rules, and will rule, so long as Money remains the power before which all our doings and our dealings lose their force.\n\nAlthough originally published anonymously, when the essay was republished 19 years later, in 1869, the concept of the corrupting Jew had become so widely held that Wagner's name was affixed to it.\nAntisemitism can also be found in many of the Grimms' Fairy Tales by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm, published from 1812 to 1857. It is mainly characterized by Jews being the villain of a story, such as in \"The Good Bargain\" (\"Der gute Handel\") and \"The Jew Among Thorns\" (\"Der Jude im Dorn\").\n\nThe middle 19th century saw continued official harassment of the Jews, especially in Eastern Europe under Czarist influence. For example, in 1846, 80 Jews approached the governor in Warsaw to retain the right to wear their traditional dress, but were immediately rebuffed by having their hair and beards forcefully cut, at their own expense.\n\nIn America, even such influential figures as Walt Whitman tolerated bigotry toward the Jews. During his time as editor of the Brooklyn Eagle (1846–1848), the newspaper published historical sketches casting Jews in a bad light.\n\nThe Dreyfus Affair was an infamous antisemitic event of the late 19th century and early 20th century. Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish artillery captain in the French Army, was accused in 1894 of passing secrets to the Germans. As a result of these charges, Dreyfus was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment on Devil's Island. The actual spy, Marie Charles Esterhazy, was acquitted. The event caused great uproar among the French, with the public choosing sides on the issue of whether Dreyfus was actually guilty or not. Émile Zola accused the army of corrupting the French justice system. However, general consensus held that Dreyfus was guilty: 80% of the press in France condemned him. This attitude among the majority of the French population reveals the underlying antisemitism of the time period.\n\nAdolf Stoecker (1835–1909), the Lutheran court chaplain to Kaiser Wilhelm I, founded in 1878 an antisemitic, anti-liberal political party called the Christian Social Party. This party always remained small, and its support dwindled after Stoecker's death, with most of its members eventually joining larger conservative groups such as the German National People's Party.\n\nSome scholars view Karl Marx's essay \"On The Jewish Question\" as antisemitic, and argue that he often used antisemitic epithets in his published and private writings. These scholars argue that Marx equated Judaism with capitalism in his essay, helping to spread that idea. Some further argue that the essay influenced National Socialist, as well as Soviet and Arab antisemites. Marx himself had Jewish ancestry, and Albert Lindemann and Hyam Maccoby have suggested that he was embarrassed by it. Others argue that Marx consistently supported Prussian Jewish communities' struggles to achieve equal political rights. These scholars argue that \"On the Jewish Question\" is a critique of Bruno Bauer's arguments that Jews must convert to Christianity before being emancipated, and is more generally a critique of liberal rights discourses and capitalism. Iain Hamphsher-Monk wrote that \"This work [On The Jewish Question] has been cited as evidence for Marx's supposed anti-semitism, but only the most superficial reading of it could sustain such an interpretation.\" David McLellan and Francis Wheen argue that readers should interpret \"On the Jewish Question\" in the deeper context of Marx's debates with Bruno Bauer, author of \"The Jewish Question\", about Jewish emancipation in Germany. Wheen says that \"Those critics, who see this as a foretaste of 'Mein Kampf', overlook one, essential point: in spite of the clumsy phraseology and crude stereotyping, the essay was actually written as a defense of the Jews. It was a retort to Bruno Bauer, who had argued that Jews should not be granted full civic rights and freedoms unless they were baptised as Christians\". According to McLellan, Marx used the word \"Judentum\" colloquially, as meaning \"commerce\", arguing that Germans must be emancipated from the capitalist mode of production not Judaism or Jews in particular. McLellan concludes that readers should interpret the essay's second half as \"an extended pun at Bauer's expense\".\n\nBetween 1900 and 1924, approximately 1.75 million Jews migrated to America, the bulk from Eastern Europe. Before 1900 American Jews had always amounted to less than 1% of America's total population, but by 1930 Jews formed about 3.5%. This increase, combined with the upward social mobility of some Jews, contributed to a resurgence of antisemitism. In the first half of the 20th century, in the US, Jews were discriminated against in employment, access to residential and resort areas, membership in clubs and organizations, and in tightened quotas on Jewish enrolment and teaching positions in colleges and universities. The lynching of Leo Frank by a mob of prominent citizens in Marietta, Georgia in 1915 turned the spotlight on antisemitism in the United States. The case was also used to build support for the renewal of the Ku Klux Klan which had been inactive since 1870.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the Beilis Trial in Russia represented incidents of blood-libel in Europe. Christians used allegations of Jews killing Christians as a justification for the killing of Jews.\nAntisemitism in America reached its peak during the interwar period. The pioneer automobile manufacturer Henry Ford propagated antisemitic ideas in his newspaper \"The Dearborn Independent\" (published by Ford from 1919 to 1927). The radio speeches of Father Coughlin in the late 1930s attacked Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal and promoted the notion of a Jewish financial conspiracy. Some prominent politicians shared such views: Louis T. McFadden, Chairman of the United States House Committee on Banking and Currency, blamed Jews for Roosevelt's decision to abandon the gold standard, and claimed that \"in the United States today, the Gentiles have the slips of paper while the Jews have the lawful money\".\n\nIn the early 1940s the aviator Charles Lindbergh and many prominent Americans led The America First Committee in opposing any involvement in the war against Fascism. During his July 1936 visit to Nazi Germany, a few weeks before the 1936 Summer Olympics, Lindbergh wrote letters saying that there was \"more intelligent leadership in Germany than is generally recognized\". The German American Bund held parades in New York City during the late 1930s, where members wore Nazi uniforms and raised flags featuring swastikas alongside American flags.\n\nSometimes race riots, as in Detroit in 1943, targeted Jewish businesses for looting and burning.\n\nIn Germany, Nazism led Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party, who came to power on 30 January 1933 shortly afterwards instituted repressive legislation which denied the Jews basic civil rights. \nIn September 1935, the Nuremberg Laws prohibited sexual relations and marriages between \"Aryans\" and Jews as \"Rassenschande\" (\"race disgrace\") and stripped all German Jews, even quarter- and half-Jews, of their citizenship, (their official title became \"subjects of the state\"). It instituted a pogrom on the night of 9–10 November 1938, dubbed \"Kristallnacht\", in which Jews were killed, their property destroyed and their synagogues torched. Antisemitic laws, agitation and propaganda were extended to German-occupied Europe in the wake of conquest, often building on local antisemitic traditions. \nIn the east the Third Reich forced Jews into ghettos in Warsaw, in Kraków, in Lvov, in Lublin and in Radom. \nAfter the beginning of the war between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union in 1941 a campaign of mass murder, conducted by the Einsatzgruppen, culminated from 1942 to 1945 in systematic genocide: the Holocaust. Eleven million Jews were targeted for extermination by the Nazis, and some six million were eventually killed.\n\nAntisemitism was commonly used as an instrument for settling personal conflicts in the Soviet Union, starting with the conflict between Joseph Stalin and Leon Trotsky and continuing through numerous conspiracy-theories spread by official propaganda. Antisemitism in the USSR reached new heights after 1948 during the campaign against the \"rootless cosmopolitan\" (euphemism for \"Jew\") in which numerous Yiddish-language poets, writers, painters and sculptors were killed or arrested. This culminated in the so-called Doctors' Plot (1952–1953). Similar antisemitic propaganda in Poland resulted in the flight of Polish Jewish survivors from the country.\n\nAfter the war, the Kielce pogrom and the \"March 1968 events\" in communist Poland represented further incidents of antisemitism in Europe. The anti-Jewish violence in postwar Poland has a common theme of blood libel rumours.\n\nPhysical assaults against Jews in those countries included beatings, stabbings and other violence, which increased markedly, sometimes resulting in serious injury and death. A 2015 report by the US State Department on religious freedom declared that \"European anti-Israel sentiment crossed the line into anti-Semitism.\"\n\nThis rise in antisemitic attacks is associated with both the Muslim anti-Semitism and the rise of far-right political parties as a result of the economic crisis of 2008. This rise in the support for far right ideas in western and eastern Europe has resulted in the increase of antisemitic acts, mostly attacks on Jewish memorials, synagogues and cemeteries but also a number of physical attacks against Jews.\n\nIn Eastern Europe the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the instability of the new states has brought the rise of nationalist movements and the accusation against Jews for the economic crisis, taking over the local economy and bribing the government alongside with traditional and religious motives for antisemitism such as blood libels. Most of the antisemitic incidents are against Jewish cemeteries and building (community centers and synagogues). Nevertheless, there were several violent attacks against Jews in Moscow in 2006 when a neo-Nazi stabbed 9 people at the Bolshaya Bronnaya Synagogue, the failed bomb attack on the same synagogue in 1999, the threats against Jewish pilgrims in Uman, Ukraine and the attack against a menorah by extremist Christian organization in Moldova in 2009.\n\nEuropeans are concerned about antisemitism because, historically, societies with a large degree of anti-Semitism are self-destructive. Furthermore, the Jews of Europe have generally aligned themselves with Europe's democratic elite, a class whose future is uncertain according to the Economist Intelligence Unit.\n\nRobert Bernstein, founder of Human Rights Watch, says that antisemitism is \"deeply ingrained and institutionalized\" in \"Arab nations in modern times.\"\n\nIn a 2011 survey by the Pew Research Center, all of the Muslim-majority Middle Eastern countries polled held few positive opinions of Jews. In the questionnaire, only 2% of Egyptians, 3% of Lebanese Muslims, and 2% of Jordanians reported having a positive view of Jews. Muslim-majority countries outside the Middle East similarly had few who held positive views of Jews, with 4% of Turks and 9% of Indonesians viewing Jews favorably.\n\nAccording to a 2011 exhibition at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, United States, some of the dialogue from Middle East media and commentators about Jews bear a striking resemblance to Nazi propaganda. According to Josef Joffe of \"Newsweek\", \"anti-Semitism—the real stuff, not just bad-mouthing particular Israeli policies—is as much part of Arab life today as the hijab or the hookah. Whereas this darkest of creeds is no longer tolerated in polite society in the West, in the Arab world, Jew hatred remains culturally endemic.\"\n\nMuslim clerics in the Middle East have frequently referred to Jews as descendants of apes and pigs, which are conventional epithets for Jews and Christians.\n\nAccording to professor Robert Wistrich, director of the Vidal Sassoon International Center for the Study of Antisemitism (SICSA), the calls for the destruction of Israel by Iran or by Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, or the Muslim Brotherhood, represent a contemporary mode of genocidal antisemitism.\n\nAntisemitism has been explained in terms of racism, xenophobia, projected guilt, displaced aggression, and the search for a scapegoat. Some explanations assign partial blame to the perception of Jewish people as unsociable. Such a perception may have arisen by many Jews having strictly kept to their own communities, with their own practices and laws.\n\nIt has also been suggested that parts of antisemitism arose from a perception of Jewish people as greedy (as often used in stereotypes of Jews), and this perception has probably evolved in Europe during Medieval times where a large portion of money lending was operated by Jews. Factors contributing to this situation included that Jews were restricted from other professions, while the Christian Church declared for their followers that money lending constituted immoral \"usury\".\n\nA March 2008 report by the U.S. State Department found that there was an increase in antisemitism across the world, and that both old and new expressions of antisemitism persist. A 2012 report by the U.S. Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor also noted a continued global increase in antisemitism, and found that Holocaust denial and opposition to Israeli policy at times was used to promote or justify blatant antisemitism. In 2014, the ADL conducted a study titled \"Global 100: An Index of Anti-Semitism\", which also reported high antisemitism figures around the world and, among other findings, that as many as \"27% of people who have never met a Jew nevertheless harbor strong prejudices against him\".\n\nAlmost all Jews in Algeria left upon independence in 1962. Algeria's 140,000 Jews had French citizenship since 1870 (briefly revoked by Vichy France in 1940), and they mainly went to France, with some going to Israel.\n\nIn Egypt, Dar al-Fadhilah published a translation of Henry Ford's antisemitic treatise, \"The International Jew\", complete with distinctly antisemitic imagery on the cover.\n\nOn 5 May 2001, after Shimon Peres visited Egypt, the Egyptian \"al-Akhbar\" internet paper said that \"lies and deceit are not foreign to Jews[...]. For this reason, Allah changed their shape and made them into monkeys and pigs.\"\n\nIn July 2012, Egypt's Al Nahar channel fooled actors into thinking they were on an Israeli television show and filmed their reactions to being told it was an Israeli television show. In response, some of the actors launched into antisemitic rants or dialogue, and many became violent. Actress Mayer El Beblawi said that \"Allah did not curse the worm and moth as much as he cursed the Jews\" while actor Mahmoud Abdel Ghaffar launched into a violent rage and said, \"You brought me someone who looks like a Jew... I hate the Jews to death\" after finding out it was a prank.\n\nLibya had once one of the oldest Jewish communities in the world, dating back to 300 BCE. Despite the repression of Jews in the late 1930, as a result of the pro-Nazi Fascist Italian regime, Jews were third of the population of Libya till 1941. In 1942 the Nazi German troops occupied the Jewish quarter of Benghazi, plundering shops and deporting more than 2,000 Jews across the desert. Sent to work in labor camps, more than one-fifth of this group of Jews perished. A series of pogroms started in November 1945, while more than 140 Jews were killed in Tripoli and most synagogues in the city looted.\nUpon Libya's independence in 1951, most of the Jewish community emigrated from Libya. After the Suez Crisis in 1956, another series of pogroms forced all but about 100 Jews to flee. When Muammar al-Gaddafi came to power in 1969, all remaining Jewish property was confiscated and all debts to Jews cancelled.\n\nJewish communities, in Islamic times often living in ghettos known as \"mellah\", have existed in Morocco for at least 2,000 years. Intermittent large scale massacres (such as that of 6,000 Jews in Fez in 1033, over 100,000 Jews in Fez and Marrakesh in 1146 and again in Marrakesh in 1232) were accompanied by systematic discrimination through the years.\nIn 1875, 20 Jews were killed by a mob in Demnat, Morocco; elsewhere in Morocco, Jews were attacked and killed in the streets in broad daylight.\nWhile the pro-Nazi Vichy regime during World War II passed discriminatory laws against Jews, King Muhammad prevented deportation of Jews to death camps (although Jews with French, as opposed to Moroccan, citizenship, being directly subject to Vichy law, were still deported.)\nIn 1948, approximately 265,000 Jews lived in Morocco. Between 5,000 and 8,000 live there now.\nIn June 1948, soon after Israel was established and in the midst of the first Arab-Israeli war, riots against Jews broke out in Oujda and Djerada, killing 44 Jews. In 1948-9, 18,000 Jews left the country for Israel. After this, Jewish emigration continued (to Israel and elsewhere), but slowed to a few thousand a year. Through the early fifties, Zionist organizations encouraged emigration, particularly in the poorer south of the country, seeing Moroccan Jews as valuable contributors to the Jewish State:\nIn 1955, Morocco attained independence and emigration to Israel has increased further until 1956 then it was prohibited until 1963, then resumed. By 1967, only 60,000 Jews remained in Morocco.\nThe Six-Day War in 1967 led to increased Arab-Jewish tensions worldwide, including Morocco. By 1971, the Jewish population was down to 35,000; however, most of this wave of emigration went to Europe and North America rather than Israel.\n\nAntisemitism has been present in history of South Africa since Europeans first set foot ashore on the Cape Peninsula. In the years 1652–1795 Jews were not allowed to settle at the Cape. An 1868 Act would sanction religious discrimination. Antisemitism reached its apotheosis in the years leading up to World War II. Inspired by the rise of national socialism in Germany the Ossewabrandwag (OB) – whose membership accounted for almost 25% of the 1940 Afrikaner population – and the National Party faction \"New Order\" would champion a more programmatic solution to the 'Jewish problem'.\n\nJews have lived in Tunisia for at least 2,300 years. In the 13th century, Jews were expelled from their homes in Kairouan and were ultimately restricted to ghettos, known as \"hara\". Forced to wear distinctive clothing, several Jews earned high positions in the Tunisian government. Several prominent international traders were Tunisian Jews. From 1855 to 1864, Muhammad Bey relaxed dhimmi laws, but reinstated them in the face of anti-Jewish riots that continued at least until 1869.\nTunisia, as the only Middle Eastern country under direct Nazi control during World War II, was also the site of racist antisemitic measures activities such as the yellow star, prison camps, deportations, and other persecution.\nIn 1948, approximately 105,000 Jews lived in Tunisia. Only about 1,500 remain there today. Following Tunisia's independence from France in 1956, a number of anti-Jewish policies led to emigration, of which half went to Israel and the other half to France. After attacks in 1967, Jewish emigration both to Israel and France accelerated. There were also attacks in 1982, 1985, and most recently in 2002 when a suicide bombing in Djerba took 21 lives (most of them German tourists) near the local synagogue, in a terrorist attack claimed by Al-Qaeda. \n\nIn modern-day Tunisia, there have been many instances of antisemitic acts and statements. Since the government is not quick to condemn them, antisemitism spreads throughout Tunisian society. Following the Ben Ali regime, there have been an increasing number of public offenses against Jews in Tunisia. For example, in February 2012, when Egyptian cleric Wagdi Ghanaim entered Tunisia, he was welcomed by Islamists who chanted \"Death to the Jews\" as a sign of their support. The following month, during protests in Tunis, a Salafi sheikh told young Tunisians to gather and learn to kill Jews.\n\nIn the past, The Tunisian government has made efforts to block Jews from entering high positions, and some moderate members have tried to cover up the more extremist anti-Semitic efforts by appointing Jews to governmental positions, however, it is known that Muslim clerics believe that if the Muslim Brotherhood leads the regime, that will enhance their hatred towards Jews. In response to the prevalent anti-Semitism, the Tunisian government has publicly protected the dwindling population and its marks of Jewish culture, for example, synagogues, and advised them to settle in Djerba, a French tourist attraction. \n\nMahmoud Ahmadinejad, former president of Iran, has frequently been accused of denying the Holocaust.\n\nIn July, the winner of Iran's first annual International Wall Street Downfall Cartoon Festival, jointly sponsored by the semi-state-run Iranian media outlet Fars News, was an antisemitic cartoon depicting Jews praying before the New York Stock Exchange, which is made to look like the Western Wall. Other cartoons in the contest were antisemitic as well. The national director of the Anti-Defamation League, Abraham Foxman, condemned the cartoon, stating that \"Here's the anti-Semitic notion of Jews and their love for money, the canard that Jews 'control' Wall Street, and a cynical perversion of the Western Wall, the holiest site in Judaism,\" and \"Once again Iran takes the prize for promoting antisemitism.\"\n\nThe Japanese first learned about antisemitism in 1918, during the cooperation of the Imperial Japanese Army with the White movement in Siberia. White Army soldiers had been issued copies of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", and \"The \"Protocols\" continue to be used as evidence of Jewish conspiracies even though they are widely acknowledged to be a forgery. During World War II, Nazi Germany encouraged Japan to adopt antisemitic policies. In the post-war period, extremist groups and ideologues have promoted conspiracy theories.\n\nIn 2004, Al-Manar, a media network affiliated with Hezbollah, aired a drama series, \"The Diaspora\", which observers allege is based on historical antisemitic allegations. BBC correspondents who have watched the program says it quotes extensively from the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\".\n\nAlthough Malaysia presently has no substantial Jewish population, the country has reportedly become an example of a phenomenon called \"antisemitism without Jews.\"\n\nIn his treatise on Malay identity, \"The Malay Dilemma,\" which was published in 1970, former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad wrote: \"The Jews are not only hooked-nosed... but understand money instinctively... Jewish stinginess and financial wizardry gained them the economic control of Europe and provoked antisemitism which waxed and waned throughout Europe through the ages.\"\n\nThe Malay-language Utusan Malaysia daily stated in an editorial that Malaysians \"cannot allow anyone, especially the Jews, to interfere secretly in this country's business... When the drums are pounded hard in the name of human rights, the pro-Jewish people will have their best opportunity to interfere in any Islamic country,\" the newspaper said. \"We might not realize that the enthusiasm to support actions such as demonstrations will cause us to help foreign groups succeed in their mission of controlling this country.\" Prime Minister Najib Razak's office subsequently issued a statement late Monday saying Utusan's claim did \"not reflect the views of the government.\"\n\nIn March 2011, the Israeli government issued a paper claiming that \"Anti-Israel and anti-Semitic messages are heard regularly in the government and private media and in the mosques and are taught in school books,\" to the extent that they are \"an integral part of the fabric of life inside the PA.\" In August 2012, Israeli Strategic Affairs Ministry director-general Yossi Kuperwasser stated that Palestinian incitement to antisemitism is \"going on all the time\" and that it is \"worrying and disturbing.\" At an institutional level, he said the PA has been promoting three key messages to the Palestinian people that constitute incitement: \"that the Palestinians would eventually be the sole sovereign on all the land from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea; that Jews, especially those who live in Israel, were not really human beings but rather 'the scum of mankind'; and that all tools were legitimate in the struggle against Israel and the Jews.\" In August 2014, the Hamas' spokesman in Doha said on live television that Jews use blood to make matzos.\n\nThe U.S. State Department's first Report on Global Anti-Semitism mentioned a strong feeling of antisemitism in Pakistan. In Pakistan, a country without Jewish communities, antisemitic sentiment fanned by antisemitic articles in the press is widespread.\n\nIn Pakistan, Jews are often regarded as miserly. After Israel's independence in 1948, violent incidents occurred against Pakistan's small Jewish community of about 2,000 Bene Israel Jews. The Magain Shalome Synagogue in Karachi was attacked, as were individual Jews. The persecution of Jews resulted in their exodus via India to Israel (see Pakistanis in Israel), the UK, Canada and other countries. The Peshawar Jewish community ceased to exist although a small community reportedly still exists in Karachi.\n\nA substantial number of people in Pakistan believe that the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center in New York were a secret Jewish conspiracy organized by Israel's MOSSAD, as were the 7 July 2005 London bombings, allegedly perpetrated by Jews in order to discredit Muslims. Pakistani political commentator Zaid Hamid claimed that Indian Jews perpetrated the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Such allegations echo traditional antisemitic theories.\nThe Jewish religious movement of Chabad Lubavich had a mission house in Mumbai, India that was attacked in the 2008 Mumbai attacks, perpetrated by militants connected to Pakistan led by Ajmal Kasab, a Pakistani national. Antisemitic intents were evident from the testimonies of Kasab following his arrest and trial.\n\nSaudi textbooks vilify Jews, call Jews apes; demand that students avoid and not befriend Jews; claim that Jews worship the devil; and encourage Muslims to engage in Jihad to vanquish Jews.\nSaudi Arabian government officials and state religious leaders often promote the idea that Jews are conspiring to take over the entire world; as proof of their claims they publish and frequently cite \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" as factual.\n\nIn 2004, the official Saudi Arabia tourism website said that Jews and holders of Israeli passports would not be issued visas to enter the country. After an uproar, the restriction against Jews was removed from the website although the ban against Israeli passport-holders remained. In late 2014, a Saudi newspaper reported that foreign workers of most religions, including Judaism, were welcome in the kingdom, but Israeli citizens were not.\n\nIn 2003, the Neve Shalom Synagogue was targeted in a car bombing, killing 21 Turkish Muslims and 6 Jews.\n\nIn June 2011, the \"Economist\" suggested that \"The best way for Turks to promote democracy would be to vote against the ruling party\". Not long after, the Turkish Prime Minister, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, said that \"The International media, as they are supported by Israel, would not be happy with the continuation of the AKP government\". The \"Hurriyet Daily News\" quoted Erdoğan at the time as claiming \"The Economist is part of an Israeli conspiracy that aims to topple the Turkish government\".\nMoreover, during Erdogan's tenure, Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" has once again become a best selling book in Turkey. Prime Minister Erdogan called antisemitism a \"crime against humanity.\" He also said that \"as a minority, they're our citizens. Both their security and the right to observe their faith are under our guarantee.\"\n\nAccording to a 2004 report from the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, antisemitism had increased significantly in Europe since 2000, with significant increases in verbal attacks against Jews and vandalism such as graffiti, fire bombings of Jewish schools, desecration of synagogues and cemeteries. Germany, France, Britain, and Russia are the countries with the highest rate of antisemitic incidents in Europe. The Netherlands and Sweden have also consistently had high rates of antisemitic attacks since 2000.\n\nSome claim that recent European antisemitic violence can actually be seen as a spillover from the long running Arab-Israeli conflict since the majority of the perpetrators are from the large Muslim immigrant communities in European cities. However, compared to France, the United Kingdom and much of the rest of Europe, in Germany Arab and pro-Palestinian groups are involved in only a small percentage of antisemitic incidents. According to \"The Stephen Roth Institute for the Study of Contemporary Antisemitism and Racism\", most of the more extreme attacks on Jewish sites and physical attacks on Jews in Europe come from militant Islamic and Muslim groups, and most Jews tend to be assaulted in countries where groups of young Muslim immigrants reside.\n\nOn 1 January 2006, Britain's chief rabbi, Lord Jonathan Sacks, warned that what he called a \"tsunami of antisemitism\" was spreading globally. In an interview with BBC Radio 4, Sacks said: \"A number of my rabbinical colleagues throughout Europe have been assaulted and attacked on the streets. We've had synagogues desecrated. We've had Jewish schools burnt to the ground—not here but in France. People are attempting to silence and even ban Jewish societies on campuses on the grounds that Jews must support the state of Israel, therefore they should be banned, which is quite extraordinary because... British Jews see themselves as British citizens. So it's that kind of feeling that you don't know what's going to happen next that's making... some European Jewish communities uncomfortable.\"\n\nFollowing an escalation in antisemitism in 2012, which included the deadly shooting of three children at a Jewish school in France, the European Jewish Congress demanded in July a more proactive response. EJC President Moshe Kantor explained, \"We call on authorities to take a more proactive approach so there would be no reason for statements of regret and denunciation. All these smaller attacks remind me of smaller tremors before a massive earthquake. The Jewish community cannot afford to be subject to an earthquake and the authorities cannot say that the writing was not on the wall.\" He added that European countries should take legislative efforts to ban any form of incitement, as well as to equip the authorities with the necessary tools to confront any attempt to expand terrorist and violent activities against Jewish communities in Europe.\n\nFrance is home to the continent's largest Jewish community (about 600,000). Jewish leaders decry an intensifying antisemitism in France, mainly among Muslims of Arab or African heritage, but also growing among Caribbean islanders from former French colonies. Former Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy denounced the killing of Ilan Halimi on 13 February 2006 as an antisemitic crime.\n\nJewish philanthropist Baron Eric de Rothschild suggests that the extent of antisemitism in France has been exaggerated. In an interview with \"The Jerusalem Post\" he says that \"the one thing you can't say is that France is an anti-Semitic country.\"\nIn March 2012, Mohammed Merah opened fire at a Jewish school in Toulouse, killing a teacher and three children. An 8-year-old girl was shot in the head at point blank range. President Nicolas Sarkozy said that it was \"obvious\" it was an antisemitic attack and that, \"I want to say to all the leaders of the Jewish community, how close we feel to them. All of France is by their side.\" The Israeli Prime Minister condemned the \"despicable anti-Semitic\" murders. After a 32-hour siege and standoff with the police outside his house, and a French raid, Merah jumped off a balcony and was shot in the head and killed. Merah told police during the standoff that he intended to keep on attacking, and he loved death the way the police loved life. He also claimed connections with al-Qaeda.\n\n4 months later, in July 2012, a French Jewish teenager wearing a \"distinctive religious symbol\" was the victim of a violent antisemitic attack on a train travelling between Toulouse and Lyon. The teen was first verbally harassed and later beaten up by two assailants. Richard Prasquier from the French Jewish umbrella group, CRIF, called the attack \"another development in the worrying trend of anti-Semitism in our country.\"\n\nAnother incident in July 2012 dealt with the vandalism of the synagogue of Noisy-le-Grand of the Seine-Saint-Denis district in Paris. The synagogue was vandalized three times in a ten-day period. Prayer books and shawls were thrown on the floor, windows were shattered, drawers were ransacked, and walls, tables, clocks, and floors were vandalized. The authorities were alerted of the incidents by the Bureau National de Vigilance Contre L'Antisémtisme (BNVCA), a French antisemitism watchdog group, which called for more measures to be taken to prevent future hate crimes. BNVCA President Sammy Ghozlan stated that, \"Despite the measures taken, things persist, and I think that we need additional legislation, because the Jewish community is annoyed.\"\n\nIn August 2012, Abraham Cooper, the dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, met French Interior Minister Manuel Valls and reported that antisemitic attacks against French Jews increased by 40% since Merah's shooting spree in Toulouse. Cooper pressed Valls to take extra measures to secure the safety of French Jews, as well as to discuss strategies to foil an increasing trend of lone-wolf terrorists on the Internet.\n\nWolfgang Schäuble, the Interior Minister of Germany in 2006, pointed out the official policy of Germany: \"We will not tolerate any form of extremism, xenophobia or anti-Semitism.\" Although the number of extreme right-wing groups and organisations grew from 141 (2001) to 182 (2006), especially in the formerly communist East Germany, Germany's measures against right-wing groups and antisemitism are effective, despite Germany having the highest rates of antisemitic acts in Europe. According to the annual reports of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution the overall number of far-right extremists in Germany dropped during the last years from 49,700 (2001), 45,000 (2002), 41,500 (2003), 40,700 (2004), 39,000 (2005), to 38,600 in 2006. Germany provided several million euros to fund \"nationwide programs aimed at fighting far-right extremism, including teams of traveling consultants, and victims' groups.\"\n\nIn July 2012, two women were assaulted in Germany, sprayed with tear gas, and were shown a \"Hitler salute,\" apparently because of a Star of David necklace that they wore.\n\nIn late August 2012, Berlin police investigated an attack on a 53-year-old rabbi and his 6-year-old daughter, allegedly by four Arab teens, after which the rabbi needed treatment for head wounds at a hospital. The police classified the attack as a hate crime. \"Jüdische Allgemeine\" reported that the rabbi was wearing a kippah and was approached by one of the teens, who asked the rabbi if he was Jewish. The teen then attacked the rabbi while yelling antisemitic comments, and threatened to kill the rabbi's daughter. Berlin's mayor condemned the attack, saying that \"Berlin is an international city in which intolerance, xenophobia and anti-Semitism are not being tolerated. Police will undertake all efforts to find and arrest the perpetrators.\"\n\nIn October 2012, various historians, including Dr. Julius H. Schoeps, a prominent German-Jewish historian and a member of the German Interior Ministry's commission to combat antisemitism, charged the majority of Bundestag deputies with failing to understand antisemitism and the imperativeness of periodic legislative reports on German antisemitism. Schoeps cited various antisemitic statements by German parliament members as well. The report in question determined that 15% of Germans are antisemitic while over 20% espouse \"latent anti-Semitism,\" but the report has been criticized for downplaying the sharpness of antisemitism in Germany, as well as for failing to examine anti-Israel media coverage in Germany.\n\nAntisemitism in Greece manifests itself in religious, political and media discourse. The recent Greek government-debt crisis has facilitated the rise of far right groups in Greece, most notably the formerly obscure Golden Dawn.\nJews have lived in Greece since antiquity, but the largest community of around 20,000 Sephardic Jews settled in Thessalonica after an invitation from the Ottoman Sultan in the 15th century. After Thessalonica was annexed to Greece in 1913, the Greek government recognized Jews as Greek citizens with full rights and attributed Judaism the status of a recognized and protected religion. Currently in Greece, Jewish communities representing the 5,000 Greek Jews are legal entities under public law. \nAccording to the ADL (Anti-Defamation League) report of 2015, the \"ADL Global 100\", a report of the status of antisemitism in 100 countries around the world, 69% of the adult population in Greece harbor antisemitic attitudes and 85% think that \"Jews have too much power in the business world\".\nIn March 2015, a survey about the Greeks' perceptions of the holocaust was published. Its findings showed that less than 60 percent of the respondents think that holocaust teaching should be included in the curriculum.\n\nIn the 21st century, antisemitism in Hungary has evolved and received an institutional framework, while verbal and physical aggression against Jews has escalated, creating a great difference between its earlier manifestations in the 1990s and recent developments. One of the major representatives of this institutionalized antisemitic ideology is the popular Hungarian party Jobbik, which received 17 percent of the vote in the April 2010 national election. The far-right subculture, which ranges from nationalist shops to radical-nationalist and neo-Nazi festivals and events, plays a major role in the institutionalization of Hungarian antisemitism in the 21st century. The contemporary antisemitic rhetoric has been updated and expanded, but is still based on the old antisemitic notions. The traditional accusations and motifs include such phrases as Jewish occupation, international Jewish conspiracy, Jewish responsibility for the Treaty of Trianon, Judeo-Bolshevism, as well as blood libels against Jews. Nevertheless, the past few years have seen the reemergence of the blood libel and an increase in Holocaust relativization and denial, while the monetary crisis has revived references to the \"Jewish banker class\".\n\nThe ongoing political conflict between Israel and Palestine has played an important role in the development and expression of antisemitism in the 21st century, and in Italy as well. The Second Intifada, which began in late September 2000, has set in motion unexpected mechanisms, whereby traditional anti-Jewish prejudices were mixed with politically based stereotypes. In this belief system, Israeli Jews were charged with full responsibility for the fate of the peace process and with the conflict presented as embodying the struggle between good (the Palestinians) and evil (the Israeli Jews).\n\nThe Netherlands has the second highest incidence of antisemitic incidents in the European Union. However, it is difficult to obtain exact figures because the specific groups against whom attacks are made are not specifically identified in police reports, and analyses of police data for antisemitism therefore relies on key-word searches, e.g. \"Jew\" or \"Israel\". According to Centre for Information and Documentation on Israel (CIDI), a pro-Israel lobby group in the Netherlands, the number of antisemitic incidents reported in the whole of the Netherlands was 108 in 2008, 93 in 2009, and 124 in 2010. Some two thirds of this are acts of aggression. There are approximately 52 000 Dutch Jews. According to the NRC Handelsblad newspaper, the number of antisemitic incidents in Amsterdam was 14 in 2008 and 30 in 2009. In 2010, Raphaël Evers, an orthodox rabbi in Amsterdam, told the Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten that Jews can no longer be safe in the city anymore due to the risk of violent assaults. \"We Jews no longer feel at home here in the Netherlands. Many people talk about moving to Israel,\" he said.\n\nAccording to the Anne Frank Foundation, antisemitism in the Netherlands in 2011 was roughly at the same level as in 2010. Actual antisemitic incidents increased from 19 in 2010 to 30 in 2011. Verbal antisemitic incidents dropped slightly from 1173 in 2010 to 1098 in 2011. This accounts for 75%–80% of all verbal racist incidents in the Netherlands. Antisemitism is more prevalent in the age group 23–27 years, which is a younger group than that of racist incidents in general.\n\nIn 2010, the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation after one year of research, revealed that antisemitism was common among some 8th, 9th, and 10th graders in Oslo's schools. Teachers at schools with large numbers of Muslims revealed that Muslim students often \"praise or admire Adolf Hitler for his killing of Jews\", that \"Jew-hate is legitimate within vast groups of Muslim students\" and that \"Muslims laugh or command [teachers] to stop when trying to educate about the Holocaust\". Additionally, \"while some students might protest when some express support for terrorism, none object when students express hate of Jews\", saying that it says in \"the Quran that you shall kill Jews, all true Muslims hate Jews\". Most of these students were said to be born and raised in Norway. One Jewish father also stated that his child had been taken by a Muslim mob after school (though the child managed to escape), reportedly \"to be taken out to the forest and hung because he was a Jew\".\n\nNorwegian Education Minister Kristin Halvorsen referred to the antisemitism reported in this study as being \"completely unacceptable.\" The head of a local Islamic council joined Jewish leaders and Halvorsen in denouncing such antisemitism.\n\nIn October 2012, the Organization for Security and Co-Operation in Europe issued a report regarding antisemitism in Norway, criticizing Norway for an increase in antisemitism in the country and blaming Norwegian officials for failing to address antisemitism.\"\n\nThe University of Warsaw’s study in 2016 found that 37% of surveyed Poles expressed negative attitudes towards Jews (up from 32% in 2015); 56% said that they wouldn't accept a Jew in their family (up from 46%); and 32% wouldn't want Jewish neighbors (up from 27%).\n\nIn November 2015, following Antoni Macierewicz’s (Law and Justice party) designation as Minister of National Defence, he faced allegations of antisemitism and protests by the Anti Defamation League.\n\nIn February 2018, the Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki stated that \"there were Jewish perpetrators\" of the Holocaust, \"not only German perpetrators.\" Ronald Lauder, the president of the World Jewish Congress, condemned Morawiecki's words: \"This is nothing short of an attempt to falsify history, that is one of the very worst forms of anti-Semitism and Holocaust obfuscation.\" Israeli politician Yair Lapid, head of the centrist Yesh Atid party, said Morawiecki's remark is \"anti-Semitism of the oldest kind.\"\n\nSince the early 2000s, levels of antisemitism in Russia have been low, and steadily decreasing. President of the Russian Jewish Congress attributes this in part to the vanished state sponsorship of antisemitism. At the same time experts warn that worsening economic conditions may lead to the surge of xenophobia and antisemitism in particular.\n\nStill, since the mid-2000s incorporation of antisemitic discourse into the platforms and speeches of nationalist political movements in Russia has been reported by human rights monitors in Russia as well as in the press. A number of prominent modern Russian politicians are known for their antisemitic views.\n\nAfter Germany and Austria, Sweden has the highest rate of antisemitic incidents in Europe, though the Netherlands has reported a higher rate of antisemitism in some years. A government study in 2006 estimated that 15% of Swedes agree with the statement: \"The Jews have too much influence in the world today\". 5% of the total adult population and 39% of adult Muslims \"harbour systematic antisemitic views\". The former prime minister Göran Persson described these results as \"surprising and terrifying\". However, the rabbi of Stockholm's Orthodox Jewish community, Meir Horden, said that \"It's not true to say that the Swedes are anti-Semitic. Some of them are hostile to Israel because they support the weak side, which they perceive the Palestinians to be.\"\n\nIn 2009, a synagogue that served the Jewish community in Malmö was set ablaze. Jewish cemeteries were repeatedly desecrated, worshippers were abused while returning home from prayer, and masked men mockingly chanted \"Hitler\" in the streets. As a result of security concerns, Malmö's synagogue has guards and rocket-proof glass in the windows, and the Jewish kindergarten can only be reached through thick steel security doors.\n\nIn early 2010, the Swedish publication \"The Local\" published series of articles about the growing antisemitism in Malmö, Sweden. In 2009, the Malmö police received reports of 79 antisemitic incidents, which was twice the number of the previous year (2008). Fredrik Sieradzki, spokesman for the Malmö Jewish community, estimated that the already small Jewish population is shrinking by 5% a year. \"Malmö is a place to move away from,\" he said, citing antisemitism as the primary reason. In March 2010, Fredrik Sieradzk told \"Die Presse\", an Austrian Internet publication, that Jews are being \"harassed and physically attacked\" by \"people from the Middle East,\" although he added that only a small number of Malmö's 40,000 Muslims \"exhibit hatred of Jews.\" In October 2010, \"The Forward\" reported on the current state of Jews and the level of antisemitism in Sweden. Henrik Bachner, a writer and professor of history at the University of Lund, claimed that members of the Swedish Parliament have attended anti-Israel rallies where the Israeli flag was burned while the flags of Hamas and Hezbollah were waved, and the rhetoric was often antisemitic—not just anti-Israel. Judith Popinski, an 86-year-old Holocaust survivor, stated that she is no longer invited to schools that have a large Muslim presence to tell her story of surviving the Holocaust. In December 2010, the Jewish human rights organization Simon Wiesenthal Center issued a travel advisory concerning Sweden, advising Jews to express \"extreme caution\" when visiting the southern parts of the country due to an alleged increase in verbal and physical harassment of Jewish citizens in the city of Malmö. Ilmar Reepalu, the mayor of Malmö for over 15 years, has been accused of failing to protect the Jewish community in Malmö, causing 30 Jewish families to leave the city in 2010, and more preparing to leave, which has left the possibility that Malmö's Jewish community will disappear soon. Critics of Reepalu say that his statements, such as antisemitism in Malmö actually being an \"understandable\" consequence of Israeli policy in the Middle East, have encouraged young Muslims to abuse and harass the Jewish community. In an interview with \"the Sunday Telegraph\" in February 2010, Reepalu said, \"There haven't been any attacks on Jewish people, and if Jews from the city want to move to Israel that is not a matter for Malmö,\" which renewed concerns about Reepalu.\n\nOleh Tyahnybok, the leader of the far-right Svoboda party, whose members hold senior positions in Ukraine's government, urged his party to fight \"the Moscow-Jewish mafia ruling Ukraine.\" The \"Algemeiner Journal\" reported: \"Svoboda supporters include among their heroes leaders of pro-Nazi World War II organizations known for their atrocities against Jews and Poles, such as the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN), the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA), and the 14th Waffen-SS Galicia Division.\"\n\nAccording to The Simon Wiesenthal Center (in January 2011) \"Ukraine has, to the best of our knowledge, never conducted a single investigation of a local Nazi war criminal, let alone prosecuted a Holocaust perpetrator.\"\n\nAccording to \"Der Spiegel\", Dmytro Yarosh, leader of the far-right Right Sector, wrote: \"I wonder how it came to pass that most of the billionaires in Ukraine are Jews?\" Late February 2014 Yarosh pledged during a meeting with Israel’s ambassador in Kiev to fight all forms of racism. Right Sector's leader for West Ukraine, Oleksandr Muzychko, has talked about fighting \"communists, Jews and Russians for as long as blood flows in my veins.\" Muzychko was shot dead on 24 March 2014. An official inquiry concluded he had shot himself in the heart at the end of a chase with the Ukrainian police.\n\nIn April 2014, Donetsk Chief Rabbi Pinchas Vishedski said that \"Anti-Semitic incidents in the Russian-speaking east were rare, unlike in Kiev and western Ukraine.\" In an April 2014 article about anti-Jewish violence in Ukraine in \"Haaretz\" no incidents outside this \"Russian-speaking east\" were mentioned.\n\nAccording to the Israel's Ambassador to Ukraine, the antisemitism occurs here much less frequently than in other European countries, and has more a hooligan's nature rather than a system.\n\nIn 2017 an Institute for Jewish Policy Research survey found that the levels of anti-Semitism in Great Britain were among the lowest in the world, with 2.4% expressing multiple anti-Semitic attitudes, and about 70% having a favourable opinion of Jews. However, only 17% had a favourable opinion of Israel, with 33% holding an unfavourable view.\n\nIn 2017, a report by the Campaign Against Antisemitism (CAA) found that the previous year, 2016, had been the worst on record for antisemitic hate crime in the UK. Prior to that, 2015 had been the worst year on record, and 2014 was the worst year on record before that. The report found that in 2016, antisemitic crime rose by 15% compared to 2015, or 45% compared to 2014. It also found that 1 in 10 antisemitic crimes was violent. Despite rising levels of antisemitic crime, the report said there had been a decrease in the charging of antisemitic crime. In the report's foreword, the CAA's Chairman wrote: \"Britain has the political will to fight antisemitism and strong laws with which to do it, but those responsible for tackling the rapidly growing racist targeting of British Jews are failing to enforce the law. There is a very real danger of Jewish citizens emigrating, as has happened elsewhere in Europe unless there is radical change.\"\n\nEvery year since 2015, the CAA has commissioned polling by YouGov concerning the attitude of the British public toward British Jews. In 2017, their polling found that 36% of British adults believed at least one of the antisemitic statements pollsters had shown them to be true, a reduction from 39% in 2016 and 45% in 2015. Additionally, the polling revealed widespread fear amongst British Jews, with almost 1 in 3 saying that they had considered emigrating in the last two years due to antisemitism, and 37% saying that they concealed their Judaism in public. The report gave various indications as to the cause of the fears, with British Jews identifying Islamist antisemitism, far-left antisemitism and far-right antisemitism as their main concerns, in that order. 78% of British Jews saying that they had witnessed antisemitism disguised as a political comment about Israel, 76% thoughts that political developments were contributing antisemitism, and 52% felt that the Crown Prosecution Service was not doing enough.\n\nIn 2016, the Home Affairs Select Committee held an inquiry into the rise of antisemitism in the UK. The inquiry called David Cameron, Tim Farron, Angus Robertson, Jeremy Corbyn, Ken Livingstone and others to give evidence. In 2005, a group of British Members of Parliament set up an inquiry into antisemitism, which published its findings in 2006. Its report stated that \"until recently, the prevailing opinion both within the Jewish community and beyond [had been] that antisemitism had receded to the point that it existed only on the margins of society.\" It found a reversal of this progress since 2000. The inquiry was reconstituted following a surge in antisemitic incidents in Britain during the summer of 2014, and the new inquiry published its report in 2015, making recommendations for reducing antisemitism.\n\nAlthough antisemitism in Canada is less prevalent than in many other countries, there have been recent incidents. For example, a 2004 study identified 24 incidents of antisemitism between 14 March and 14 July 2004 in Newfoundland, Montreal, Quebec City, Ottawa, the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), and some smaller Ontario communities. The incidents included vandalism and other attacks on four synagogues, six cemeteries, four schools, and a number of businesses and private residences.\n\nIn November 2005, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights examined antisemitism on college campuses. It reported that \"incidents of threatened bodily injury, physical intimidation or property damage are now rare\", but antisemitism still occurs on many campuses and is a \"serious problem.\" The Commission recommended that the U.S. Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights protect college students from antisemitism through vigorous enforcement of \"Title VI\" of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and further recommended that Congress clarify that Title VI applies to discrimination against Jewish students.\n\nOn 19 September 2006, Yale University founded the Yale Initiative for the Interdisciplinary Study of Anti-Semitism (YIISA), the first North American university-based center for study of the subject, as part of its Institution for Social and Policy Studies. Director Charles Small of the Center cited the increase in antisemitism worldwide in recent years as generating a \"need to understand the current manifestation of this disease\". In June 2011, Yale voted to close this initiative. After carrying out a routine review, the faculty review committee said that the initiative had not met its research and teaching standards. Donald Green, then head of Yale's Institution for Social and Policy Studies, the body under whose aegis the antisemitism initiative was run, said that it had not had many papers published in the relevant leading journals or attracted many students. As with other programs that had been in a similar situation, the initiative had therefore been cancelled. This decision has been criticized by figures such as former U.S. Commission on Civil Rights Staff Director Kenneth L. Marcus, who is now the director of the Initiative to Combat Anti-Semitism and Anti-Israelism in America's Educational Systems at the Institute for Jewish and Community Research, and Deborah Lipstadt, who described the decision as \"weird\" and \"strange.\" Antony Lerman has supported Yale's decision, describing the YIISA as a politicized initiative that was devoted to the promotion of Israel rather than to serious research on antisemitism.\n\nA 2007 survey by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) concluded that 15% of Americans hold antisemitic views, which was in-line with the average of the previous ten years, but a decline from the 29% of the early sixties. The survey concluded that education was a strong predictor, \"with most educated Americans being remarkably free of prejudicial views.\" The belief that Jews have too much power was considered a common antisemitic view by the ADL. Other views indicating antisemitism, according to the survey, include the view that Jews are more loyal to Israel than America, and that they are responsible for the death of Jesus of Nazareth. The survey found that antisemitic Americans are likely to be intolerant generally, e.g. regarding immigration and free-speech. The 2007 survey also found that 29% of foreign-born Hispanics and 32% of African-Americans hold strong antisemitic beliefs, three times more than the 10% for whites.\n\nA 2009 study published in \"Boston Review\" found that nearly 25% of non-Jewish Americans blamed Jews for the financial crisis of 2008–2009, with a higher percentage among Democrats than Republicans. 32% of Democrats blamed Jews for the financial crisis, versus 18% for Republicans.\n\nIn August 2012, the California state assembly approved a non-binding resolution that \"encourages university leaders to combat a wide array of anti-Jewish and anti-Israel actions,\" although the resolution \"is purely symbolic and does not carry policy implications.\"\n\nIn April 2017, \"Politico Magazine\" published an article purporting to show links between U.S. President Donald Trump, Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Jewish outreach organization Chabad-Lubavitch. The article was widely condemned, with the head of the Anti-Defamation League Jonathan Greenblatt saying that it \"evokes age-old myths about Jews\".\n\nIn November 2017, Jonathan Greenblatt, national director and CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, stated in an interview, “While anti-Semitic attitudes have remained consistent at 14%... anti-Semitic incidents have been on the rise. In 2016 we saw a 34% increase over the prior year in acts of harassment, vandalism, or violence directed at Jewish individuals and institutions. During the first three quarters of 2017, there was a 67% increase over the same period in 2016. We’ve seen double the number of incidents in K-12 schools, and almost a 60% increase on college campuses.\" \n\nOn October 29, 2018, an antisemitic terrorist attacked the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn a 2009 news story, Michael Rowan and Douglas E. Schoen wrote, \"In an infamous Christmas Eve speech several years ago, Chávez said the Jews killed Christ and have been gobbling up wealth and causing poverty and injustice worldwide ever since.\" Hugo Chávez stated that \"[t]he world is for all of us, then, but it so happens that a minority, the descendants of the same ones that crucified Christ, the descendants of the same ones that kicked Bolívar out of here and also crucified him in their own way over there in Santa Marta, in Colombia. A minority has taken possession of all of the wealth of the world.\"\n\nIn February 2012, opposition candidate for the 2012 Venezuelan presidential election Henrique Capriles was subject to what foreign journalists characterized as vicious attacks by state-run media sources. The \"Wall Street Journal\" said that Capriles \"was vilified in a campaign in Venezuela's state-run media, which insinuated he was, among other things, a homosexual and a Zionist agent\". A 13 February 2012 opinion article in the state-owned Radio Nacional de Venezuela, titled \"The Enemy is Zionism\" attacked Capriles' Jewish ancestry and linked him with Jewish national groups because of a meeting he had held with local Jewish leaders, saying, \"This is our enemy, the Zionism that Capriles today represents... Zionism, along with capitalism, are responsible for 90% of world poverty and imperialist wars.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6024273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6024273", "title": "Arsenault-Cameron v Prince Edward Island", "text": "Arsenault-Cameron v Prince Edward Island\n\nArsenault-Cameron v Prince Edward Island, [2000] 1 S.C.R. 3, 2000 SCC 1, is a landmark Supreme Court of Canada decision on minority language rights. The Court found that the numbers of Francophone children in Summerside, Prince Edward Island warranted French-language education in Summerside, under section 23 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\", and the province was constitutionally obligated to create a French language school.\n\nA number of Francophone families living in Summerside made a request to the French Language Board to build a French-language school in the community rather than bus the children to the closest French school 57 minutes away. The Board made a proposal to the Minister which was rejected.\n\nThe family applied for a declaration against the province to build a school in Summerside. At trial the declaration was granted but was overturned on appeal.\n\nIn the decision of \"Arsenault-Cameron v. Prince Edward Island\", [1999] 3 S.C.R. 851, prior to the language rights hearing, the counsel for the government sought to have Bastarache recuse himself for reasonable apprehension of bias due to his history of championing the French language. In an application to Bastarache, he held that he was not biased to hear the case, and so did not recuse himself.\n\nMajor and Bastarache, writing for a unanimous court, applied a purposive interpretation to section 23 of the \"Charter\". He found that the purpose of the right is to redress past injustices and provide \"an official language minority with equal access to high quality education in its own language in circumstances where community development will be enhanced.\"\n"}
{"id": "43838560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43838560", "title": "Arthur Asa Berger", "text": "Arthur Asa Berger\n\nArthur Asa Berger (born 1933) is Professor Emeritus in Broadcast and Electronic Communication Arts at San Francisco State University.\n\nHe received a \"Catholic\" education in his public high school despite the fact that he is Jewish. Most of his teachers were Catholics who were educated at Boston College or College of the Holy Cross. He gradually developed interest in writing and drawing.\nHe got a B.A. in literature and philosophy at the University of Massachusetts in 1954, assuming that a good education would fit him for any job. Then he applied to graduate school in journalism, thinking that he liked to write and might find journalism an interesting career. He was accepted into the University of California Berkeley journalism school and started there in the summer of 1954 but transferred to the University of Iowa where he could work with people like Marguerite Young. He was also able to take a couple of philosophy courses with Gustav Bergmann from the Vienna Circle. He was drafted in the summer of 1956, eleven days after he received his MA. He got out of the Army in 1958 and went to Europe for a year.\n\nA year after he came back from Europe, he enrolled at the University of Minnesota’s program for a Ph.D in American Studies. In time, he ended up teaching in the Broadcast and Electronic Communication Arts department at San Francisco State University where he taught courses on writing and media criticism. Berger has published more than 130 articles and more than 70 books in the course of his career. He spent 1963-64 as a Fulbright scholar at the University of Milan and has also taught at Jinan University and Tsing Hua university in China, spent a month as a Fulbright Senior Specialist lecturing on semiotics in Argentina and lectured in more than a dozen universities in various countries. His works have been cited thousands of times by international academics.\n\nBerger is married to Philis Berger and they have two children. Their son Gabriel went to Harvard for his BA and has a Ph.D. in\nmathematics from Columbia. He works for Google now. Their daughter Nina has a doctorate from an institute that trains psychoanalysts and is a psychoanalyst. Jason Berger was his brother. He manages his personal weblog named \"Decoder Man\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3558505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3558505", "title": "Association of European Science and Technology Transfer Professionals", "text": "Association of European Science and Technology Transfer Professionals\n\nThe Association of European Science and Technology Transfer Professionals (ASTP) is a non-profit organisation created in December, 1999, through the initiative of a multinational group of technology transfer professionals. It is based in The Hague, in the Netherlands.\n\nThe group aims to professionalise and promote technology and knowledge transfer between European scientists and industries from around the world. ASTP is growing rapidly, and currently has more than 500 members over 35 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "3957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3957", "title": "Baroque", "text": "Baroque\n\nThe Baroque ( or ) is a highly ornate and often extravagant style of architecture, art and music that flourished in Europe from the early 17th until the mid-18th century. It followed the Renaissance style and preceded the Rococo (in the past often referred to as \"late Baroque\") and Neoclassical styles. It was encouraged by the Catholic Church as a means to counter the simplicity and austerity of Protestant architecture, art and music, though Lutheran Baroque art developed in parts of Europe as well. The Baroque style used contrast, movement, exuberant detail, deep colour, grandeur and surprise to achieve a sense of awe. The style began at the start of the 17th century in Rome, then spread rapidly to France, northern Italy, Spain and Portugal, then to Austria and southern Germany. By the 1730s, it had evolved into an even more flamboyant style, called \"rocaille\" or \"Rococo\", which appeared in France and central Europe until the mid to late 18th century.\n\nThe word \"baroque\" was a Portuguese term for a pearl (barocco) with an irregular shape. Cognates for the term in other Romance languages include: \"barroco\" in Portuguese, \"barrueco\" in Spanish, and \"barocco\" in Italian. It was used in French to describe pearls in a 1531 inventory of Charles V's treasures.\n\nIn the 18th century, the term was usually used to describe music. In an anonymous satirical review of the première of Jean-Philippe Rameau's \"Hippolyte et Aricie\" in October 1733, which was printed in the \"Mercure de France\" in May 1734, the critic wrote that the novelty in this opera was \"du barocque\", complaining that the music lacked coherent melody, was unsparing with dissonances, constantly changed key and meter, and speedily ran through every compositional device.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau, who was a musician and composer as well as philosopher, wrote in 1768 in the \"Encyclopédie\": \"Baroque music is that in which the harmony is confused, and loaded with modulations and dissonances. The singing is harsh and unnatural, the intonation difficult, and the movement limited. It appears that term comes from the word 'baroco' used by logicians.\"\n\nThe word was first used to describe the period of art that followed the Renaissance in 1855 by the Swiss art historian Jacob Burckhardt in an article in the journal \"Le Cicerone\". He used the term to attack the movement for subverting the values of the Renaissance. The term \"style baroque\" did not enter into the dictionary of the Académie française until 1878, when it lost its original negative connotation. In 1888, the art historian Heinrich Wölfflin published the first serious academic work on the style, \"Renaissance und Barock\", which described the differences between the painting, sculpture, and architecture of the Renaissance and the Baroque.\n\nThe Baroque style of architecture was a result of doctrines adopted by the Catholic Church at the Council of Trent in 1545–63, in response to the Protestant Reformation. The first phase of the Counter-Reformation had imposed a severe, academic style on religious architecture, which had appealed to intellectuals but not the mass of churchgoers. The Council of Trent decided instead to appeal to a more popular audience, and declared that the arts should communicate religious themes with direct and emotional involvement. Lutheran Baroque art developed as a confessional marker of identity, in response to the Great Iconoclasm of Calvinists.\n\nBaroque churches were designed with a large central space, where the worshippers could be close to the altar, with a dome or cupola high overhead, allowing light to illuminate the church below. The dome was one of the central symbolic features of baroque architecture illustrating the union between the heavens and the earth, The inside of the cupola was lavishly decorated with paintings of angels and saints, and with stucco statuettes of angels, giving the impression to those below of looking up at heaven.\nAnother feature of baroque churches are the \"quadratura\"; trompe-l'œil paintings on the ceiling in stucco frames, either real or painted, crowded with paintings of saints and angels and connected by architectural details with the balustrades and consoles. \"Quadratura\" paintings of Atlantes below the cornices appear to be supporting the ceiling of the church. Unlike the painted ceilings of Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel, which combined different scenes, each with its own perspective, to be looked at one at a time, the Baroque ceiling paintings were carefully created so the viewer on the floor of the church would see the entire ceiling in correct perspective, as if the figures were real.\n\nThe interiors of baroque churches became more and more ornate in the High Baroque, and focused around the altar, usually placed under the dome. The most celebrated baroque decorative works of the High Baroque are the Chair of Saint Peter (1647–53) and the Baldachino of St. Peter (1623–34), both by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, in St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. The Baldequin of St. Peter is an example of the balance of opposites in Baroque art; the gigantic proportions of the piece, with the apparent lightness of the canopy; and the contrast between the solid twisted columns, bronze, gold and marble of the piece with the flowing draperies of the angels on the canopy. The Dresden Frauenkirche serves as a prominent example of Lutheran Baroque art, which was completed in 1743 after being commissioned by the Lutheran city council of Dresden and was \"compared by eighteenth-century observers to St Peter’s in Rome\".\n\nThe twisted column in the interior of churches is one of the signature features of the Baroque. It gives both a sense of motion and also a dramatic new way of reflecting light.\nThe cartouche was another characteristic feature of baroque decoration. These were large plaques of carved of marble or stone, usually oval and with a rounded surface, which carried images or text in gilded letters, and were placed as interior decoration or above the doorways of buildings, delivering messages to those below. They showed a wide variety of invention, and were found in all types of buildings, from cathedrals and palaces to small chapels.\n\nBaroque architects sometimes used forced perspective to create illusions. For the Palazzo Spada in Rome, Borromini used columns of diminishing size, a narrowing floor and a miniature statue in the garden beyond to create the illusion that a passageway was thirty meters long, when it was actually only seven meters long. A statue at the end of the passage appears to be life-size, though it is only sixty centimeters high. Borromini designed the illusion with the assistance of a mathematician.\n\nThe first building in Rome to have a Baroque facade was the Church of the Gesù in 1584; it was plain by later Baroque standards, but marked a break with the traditional Renaissance facades that preceded it. The interior of this church remained very austere until the high Baroque, when it was lavishly ornamented.\n\nIn Rome in 1605, Paul V became the first of series of popes who commissioned basilicas and church buildings designed to inspire emotion and awe through a proliferation of forms, and a richness of colors and dramatic effects. Among the most influential monuments of the Early Baroque were the facade of St. Peter's Basilica (1606–1619), and the new nave and loggia which connected the facade to Michelangelo's dome in the earlier church. The new design created a dramatic contrast between the soaring dome and the disproportionately wide facade, and the contrast on the facade itself between the Doric columns and the great mass of the portico.\n\nIn the mid to late 17th century the style reached its peak, later termed the High Baroque. Many monumental works were commissioned by Popes Urban VIII and Alexander VII. The sculptor and architect Gian Lorenzo Bernini designed a new quadruple colonnade around St. Peter's Square (1656 to 1667). The three galleries of columns in a giant ellipse balance the oversize dome and give the Church and square a unity and the feeling of a giant theater.\n\nAnother major innovator of the Italian High Baroque was Francesco Borromini, whose major work was the Church of San Carlo alle Quattro Fontane or Saint Charles of the Four Fountains (1634–46). The sense of movement is given not by the decoration, but by the walls themselves, which undulate and by concave and convex elements, including an oval tower and balcony inserted into a concave traverse. The interior was equally revolutionary; the main space of the church was oval, beneath an oval dome.\n\nPainted ceilings, crowded with angels and saints and trompe-l'œil architectural effects, were an important feature of the Italian High Baroque. Major works included \"The Entry of Saint Ignace into Paradise\" by Andrea Pozzo (1685–1695) in the Church of Saint Ignatius in Rome, and \"The triumph of the name of Jesus\" by Giovanni Battista Gaulli in the Church of the Gesù in Rome (1669–1683), which featured figures spilling out of the picture frame and dramatic oblique lighting and light-dark contrasts.\nThe style spread quickly from Rome to other regions of Italy: It appeared in Venice in the church of Santa Maria della Salute (1631–1687) by Baldassare Longhena, a highly original octagonal form crowned with an enormous cupola. It appeared also in Turin, notably in the Chapel of the Holy Shroud (1668–1694) by Guarino Guarini. The style also began to be used in palaces; Guarini designed the Palazzo Carignano in Turin, while Longhena designed the Ca' Rezzonico on the Grand Canal, (1657), finished by Giorgio Massari with decorated with paintings by Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. A series of massive earthquakes in Sicily required the rebuilding of most of the, and several were built in the exuberant late Baroque or Rococo style.\n\nThe Catholic Church in Spain, and particularly the Jesuits, were the driving force of Spanish Baroque architecture. The first major work in the style was the San Isidro Chapel in Madrid, begun in 1643 by Pedro de la Torre. It contrasted an extreme richness of ornament on the exterior with simplicity in the interior, divided into multiple spaces and using effects of light to create a sense of mystery. The Cathedral in Santiago de Compostela was modernized with a series of Baroque additions beginning at the end of the 17th century, starting with a highly-ornate bell tower (1680), then flanked by two even taller and more ornate towers, called the \"Obradorio\", added between 1738 and 1750 by Fernando de Casas Novoa. Another landmark of the Spanish Baroque is the chapel tower of the Palace of San Telmo in Seville by Leonardo de Figueroa.\n\nGranada had only been liberated from the Moors in the 15th century, and had its own distinct variety of Baroque. The painter, sculptor and architect Alonso Cano designed the Baroque interior of Granada Cathedral between 1652 and his death in 1657. It features dramatic contrasts of the massive white columns and gold decor.\n\nSome of the most and ornamental and lavishly decorated architecture of the period was designed by the brothers Churriguera, who worked primarily in Salamanca and Madrid. The Church of San Esteban in Salamanca (1693) is one of the most ornate baroque churches anywhere. Their other works include the buildings on the city's main square, the Plaza Mayor of Salamanca (1729).\n\nOther notable Spanish baroque architects of the late Baroque include Pedro de Ribera, a pupil of Churriguera, who designed the Royal Hospice of San Fernando in Madrid, and Narciso Tomé, who designed the celebrated El Transparente altarpiece at Toledo Cathedral (1729–32) which gives the illusion, in certain light, of floating upwards.\n\nThe architects of the Spanish Baroque had an effect far beyond Spain; their work was highly influential in the churches built in the Spanish colonies in Latin America and the Philippines. The Church built by the Jesuits for a college in Tepotzotlán, with its ornate Baroque facade and tower, is a good example.\n\nFrom 1680 to 1750, many highly ornate cathedrals, abbeys, and pilgrimage churches were built in central Europe, in Bavaria, Austria, and what is now the Czech Republic. Some were in Rococo style, a distinct, more flamboyant and asymmetric style which emerged out of the Baroque, then replaced it in Central Europe in the first half of the 18th century, until it was replaced in turn by classicism. \n\nThe princes of the multitude of states in that region also chose Baroque or Rococo for their palaces and residences, and often used Italian-trained architects to construct them. Notable architects included Johann Fischer von Erlach, Lukas von Hildebrandt and Dominikus Zimmermann in Bavaria, Balthasar Neumann in Bruhl, and Matthäus Daniel Pöppelmann in Dresden. In Prussia, Frederic II of Prussia was inspired the Grand Trianon of the Palace of Versailles, and used it as the model for his summer residence, Sanssouci, in Potsdam, designed for him by Georg Wenzeslaus von Knobelsdorff (1745–1747). Another work of baroque palace architecture is the Zwinger in Potsdam, the former orangerie of the palace of the Dukes of Saxony in the 18th century.\n\nOne of the best examples of a rococo church is the Basilika Vierzehnheiligen, or Basilica of the Fourteen Holy Helpers, a pilgrimage church located near the town of Bad Staffelstein near Bamberg, in Bavaria, southern Germany. The Basilica was designed by Balthasar Neumann and was constructed between 1743 and 1772, its plan a series of interlocking circles around a central oval with the altar placed in the exact center of the church. The interior of this church illustrates the summit of Rococo decoration.\n\nAnother notable example of the style is the Pilgrimage Church of Wies (). It was designed by the brothers J. B. and Dominikus Zimmermann. It is located in the foothills of the Alps, in the municipality of Steingaden in the Weilheim-Schongau district, Bavaria, Germany.Construction took place between 1745 and 1754, and the interior was decorated with frescoes and with stuccowork in the tradition of the Wessobrunner School. It is now a UNESCO World Heritage Site. \n\nAnother notable example is the St. Nicholas Church (Malá Strana) in Prague (1704–55), built by Christoph Dientzenhofer and his son Kilian Ignaz Dientzenhofer. Decoration covers all of walls of interior of the church. The altar is placed in the nave beneath the central dome, and surrounded by chapels, Light comes down from the dome above and from the surrounding chapels. The altar is entirely surrounded by arches, columns, curved balustrades and pilasters of colored stone, which are richly decorated with statuary, creating a deliberate confusion between the real architecture and the decoration. The architecture is transformed into a theater of light, color and movement.\n\nFrance largely resisted the ornate baroque style of Italy, Spain, Vienna and the rest of Europe. The French Baroque style (often termed \"Grand Classicism\" or simply \"Classicism\" in France) is closely associated with the works built for Louis XIV and Louis XV; it features more geometric order and measure than baroque, and less elaborate decoration on the facades and in the interiors. Louis XIV invited the master of baroque, Bernini, to submit a design for the new wing of the Louvre, but rejected it in favor of a more classical design by Claude Perrault and Louis Le Vau.\n\nThe principal architects of the style included François Mansart (Chateau de Balleroy, 1626–1636), Pierre Le Muet (Church of Val-de-Grace, 1645–1665), Louis Le Vau (Vaux-le-Vicomte, 1657–1661) and especially Jules Hardouin Mansart and Robert de Cotte, whose work included the Galerie des Glaces and the Grand Trianon at Versailles (1687–1688). Mansart was also responsible for the Baroque-classicism of the Place Vendôme (1686–1699).\n\nThe major work of the period was the Palace of Versailles, begun in 1661 by Le Vau with decoration by the painter Charles Le Brun. The gardens were designed by André Le Nôtre specifically to complement and amplify the architecture. The Galerie des Glaces (Hall of Mirrors), the centerpiece of the château, with paintings by Le Brun, was constructed between 1678 and 1686. Mansart completed the Grand Trianon in 1687. The chapel, designed by de Cotte, was finished in 1710. Following the death of Louis XIV, Louis XV added the more intimate Petit Trianon and the highly ornate theater. The fountains in the gardens were designed to be seen from the interior, and to add to the dramatic effect. The palace was admired and copied by other monarchs of Europe, particularly Peter the Great of Russia, who visited Versailles early in the reign of Louis XV, and built his own version at Peterhof Palace near Saint Petersburg, between 1705 and 1725.\n\nThe debut of Russian Baroque, or Petrine Baroque, followed a long visit of Peter the Great to western Europe in 1697–98, where he visited the Chateaux of Fontainebleu and Versailles and other architectural monuments. He decided, on his return to Russia, to construct similar monuments in St. Petersburg, when he moved the Russian capital there in 1712. Early major monuments in the Petrine baroque include the Peter and Paul Cathedral and Menshikov Palace.\nDuring the reign of Empress Anna and Elizaveta Petrovna, Russian architecture was dominated by the luxurious baroque style of Bartolomeo Rastrelli; called Elizabethan Baroque. Rastrelli's signature buildings include the Winter Palace, the Catherine Palace and the Smolny Cathedral. Other distinctive monuments of the Elizabethan Baroque are the bell tower of the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra and the Red Gate.\n\nBaroque painters worked deliberately to set themselves apart from the painters of the Renaissance and the Mannerism period after it. In their palette, they used intense and warm colors, and particularly made use of the primary colors red, blue and yellow, frequently putting all three in close proximity. In their lighting, they avoided the even lighting of Renaissance painting and used strong contrasts of light and darkness on certain parts of the picture to direct attention to the central actions or figures. In their composition, they avoided the tranquil scenes of Renaissance paintings, and chose the moments of the greatest movement and drama. Unlike the tranquil faces of Renaissance paintings, the faces in Baroque paintings clearly expressed their emotions. They often used asymmetry, with action occurring away from the center of the picture, and created axes that were neither vertical or horizontal, but slanting to the left or right, giving a sense of instability and movement. They enhanced this impression of movement by having the costumes of the personages blown by the wind, or moved by their own gestures. The overall impressions were movement, emotion and drama. Another essential element of baroque painting was allegory; every painting told a story and had a message, often encrypted in symbols and allegorical characters, which an educated viewer was expected to know and read. \nThe earliest Baroque painters were the Italians the Caracci brothers, Annibale and Agostino, in the last score of the 16th century, and Caravaggio in the last decade of the century. Caravaggio's realistic approach to the human figure, painted directly from life and dramatically spotlit against a dark background, shocked his contemporaries and opened a new chapter in the history of painting. Other major painters associated closely with the Baroque style include Guido Reni, Domenichino, Andrea Pozzo, and Paolo de Matteis in Italy; Francisco de Zurbarán in Spain; Adam Elsheimer in Germany; and Nicolas Poussin and Georges de La Tour in France (though Poussin spent most of his working life in Italy). Poussin and La Tour adopted a \"classical\" Baroque style with less focus on emotion and greater attention to the line of the figures in the painting than colour. \n\nPeter Paul Rubens was the most important painter of the Flemish Baroque style. Rubens' highly charged compositions reference erudite aspects of classical and Christian history. His unique and immensely popular Baroque style emphasized movement, color, and sensuality, which followed the immediate, dramatic artistic style promoted in the Counter-Reformation. Rubens specialized in making altarpieces, portraits, landscapes, and history paintings of mythological and allegorical subjects.\n\nOne important domain of Baroque painting was \"Quadratura\", or paintings in \"trompe-l'oeil\", which literally \"fooled the eye\". These were usually painted on the stucco of ceilings or upper walls and balustrades, and gave the impression to those on the ground looking up were that they were seeing the heavens populated with crowds of angels saints, and other heavenly figures, set against painted skies and imaginary architecture. \n\nIn Italy, artists often collaborated with architects on interior decoration; Pietro da Cortona was one of the painters of the 17th century who employed this illusionist way of painting. Among his most important commissions were the frescoes he painted for the Palace of the Barberini family (1633–39), to glorify the reign of Pope Urban VIII. Pietro da Cortona’s compositions were the largest decorative frescoes executed in Rome since the work of Michelangelo at the Sistine Chapel. .\n\nFrançois Boucher was an important figure in the more delicate French Rococo style, which appeared during the late Baroque period. He designed tapestries, carpets and theater decoration as well as painting. His work was extremely popular with Madame Pompadour, the Mistress of King Louis XV. His paintings featured mythological romantic, and mildly erotic themes.\n\nThe dominant figure in baroque sculpture was Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Under the patronage of Pope Urban VIII, he made a remarkable series of monumental statues of saints and figures whose faces and gestures vividly expressed their emotions, as well as portrait busts of exceptional realism, and highly decorative works for the Vatican, including the imposing Chair of St. Peter beneath the dome in St. Peter's Basilica In addition, he designed fountains with monumental groups of sculpture to decorate the major squares of Rome.\n\nBaroque sculpture was particularly inspired by ancient Roman statuary, particularly by the famous statue of Laocoön from the First Century A.D., which was on display in the gallery of the Vatican. When he visited Paris in 1665, Bernini addressed the students at the Academy of painting and sculpture, he advised the students to work from classical models, rather than from nature. He told the students, \"When I had trouble with my first statue, i consulted the \"Antinous\" like an oracle.\"\n\nNotable late French baroque sculptors included Étienne Maurice Falconet and Jean Baptiste Pigalle. Pigalle was commissioned by Frederick the Great to make statues for Frederick's own version of Versailles at Sanssouci in Potsdam, Germany. Falconet also received an important foreign commission, creating the famous statue of Peter the Great on horseback found in St. Petersburg.\n\nIn Spain, the sculptor Francisco Salzillo worked exclusively on religious themes, using polychromed wood. Some of the finest baroque sculptural craftsmanship was found in the gilded stucco altars of churches of the Spanish colonies of the New World, made by local craftsmen; examples include the Rosary Chapel of the Church of Santo Domingo in Oaxaca, Mexico (1724–31).\n\nThe term \"Baroque\" is also used to designate the style of music composed during a period that overlaps with that of Baroque art. The first uses of the term 'baroque' for music were criticisms. In an anonymous, satirical review of the première in October 1733 of Rameau's \"Hippolyte et Aricie,\" printed in the \"Mercure de France\" in May 1734, the critic implied that the novelty in this opera was \"du barocque,\" complaining that the music lacked coherent melody, was filled with unremitting dissonances, constantly changed key and meter, and speedily ran through every compositional device. Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who was a musician and noted composer as well as philosopher, made a very similar observation in 1768 in the famous \"Encylopedié\" of Denis Diderot: \"Baroque music is that in which the harmony is confused, and loaded with modulations and dissonances. The singing is harsh and unnatural, the intonation difficult, and the movement limited. It appears that term comes from the word 'baroco' used by logicians.\"\n\nCommon use of the term for the music of the period began only in 1919, by Curt Sachs, and it was not until 1940 that it was first used in English in an article published by Manfred Bukofzer.\n\nThe baroque was a period of musical experimentation and innovation. New forms were invented, including the concerto and sinfonia. Opera was born in Italy at the end of the 16th century (with Jacopo Peri's mostly lost \"Dafne\", produced in Florence in 1598) and soon spread through the rest of Europe: Louis XIV created the first Royal Academy of Music, In 1669, the poet Pierre Perrin opened an academy of opera in Paris, the first opera theater in France open to the public, and premiered \"Pomone\", the first grand opera in French, with music by Robert Cambert, with five acts, elaborate stage machinery, and a ballet. Heinrich Schütz in Germany, Jean-Baptiste Lully in France, and Henry Purcell in England all helped to establish their national traditions in the 17th century.\n\nThe classical ballet also originated in the Baroque era. The style of court dance was brought to France by Marie de Medici, and in the beginning the members of the court themselves were the dancers. Louis XIV himself performed in public in several ballets. In March 1662, the Académie Royale de Danse, was founded by the King. It was the first professional dance school and company, and set the standards and vocabulary for ballet throughout Europe during the period.\n\nSeveral new instruments, including the piano, were introduced during this period. The invention of the piano is credited to Bartolomeo Cristofori (1655–1731) of Padua, Italy, who was employed by Ferdinando de' Medici, Grand Prince of Tuscany, as the Keeper of the Instruments. . Cristofori named the instrument \"un cimbalo di cipresso di piano e forte\" (\"a keyboard of cypress with soft and loud\"), abbreviated over time as \"pianoforte\", \"fortepiano\", and later, simply, piano.\n\n\nThe Baroque period was a golden age for theater in France and Spain; playwrights included Corneille, Racine and Moliere in France; and Lope de Vega and Pedro Calderón de la Barca Spain.\n\nDuring the Baroque period, the art and style of the theater evolved rapidly, alongside the development of opera and of ballet. The design of newer and larger theaters, the invention the use of more elaborate machinery, the wider use of the proscenium arch, which framed the stage and hid the machinery from the audience, encouraged more scenic effects and spectacle.\n\nThe Baroque had a Catholic and conservative character in Spain, following an Italian literary models during the Renaissance. The Hispanic Baroque theatre aimed for a public content with an ideal reality that manifested fundamental three sentiments: Catholic religion, monarchist and national pride and honour originating from the chivalric, knightly world.\n\nTwo periods are known in the Baroque Spanish theatre, with the division occurring in 1630. The first period is represented chiefly by Lope de Vega, but also by Tirso de Molina, Gaspar Aguilar, Guillén de Castro, Antonio Mira de Amescua, Luis Vélez de Guevara, Juan Ruiz de Alarcón, Diego Jiménez de Enciso, Luis Belmonte Bermúdez, Felipe Godínez, Luis Quiñones de Benavente or Juan Pérez de Montalbán. The second period is represented by Pedro Calderón de la Barca and fellow dramatists Antonio Hurtado de Mendoza, Álvaro Cubillo de Aragón, Jerónimo de Cáncer, Francisco de Rojas Zorrilla, Juan de Matos Fragoso, Antonio Coello y Ochoa, Agustín Moreto, and Francisco Bances Candamo. These classifications are loose because each author had his own way and could occasionally adhere himself to the formula established by Lope. It may even be that the \"manner\" of Lope was more liberal and structured than Calderón's.\n\nLope de Vega introduced through his \"Arte nuevo de hacer comedias en este tiempo\" (1609) the \"new comedy\". He established a new dramatic formula that broke the three Aristotle unities of the Italian school of poetry (action, time and place) and a fourth unity of Aristotle which is about style, mixing of tragic and comic elements showing different types of verses and stanzas upon what is represented. Although Lope has a great knowledge of the plastic arts, he did not use it during the major part of his career nor in theatre or scenography. The Lope's comedy granted a second role to the visual aspects of the theatrical representation.\n\nTirso de Molina, Lope de Vega, and Calderón were the most important play writers in Golden Era Spain. Their works, known for their subtle intelligence and profound comprehension of a person's humanity, could be considered a bridge between Lope's primitive comedy and the more elaborate comedy of Calderón. Tirso de Molina is best known for two works, \"The Convicted Suspicions\" and \"The Trickster of Seville\", one of the first versions of the Don Juan myth.\n\nUpon his arrival to Madrid, Cosimo Lotti brought to the Spanish court the most advanced theatrical techniques of Europe. His techniques and mechanic knowledge were applied in palace exhibitions called \"Fiestas\" and in lavish exhibitions of rivers or artificial fountains called \"Naumaquias\". He was in charge of styling the Gardens of Buen Retiro, of Zarzuela and of Aranjuez and the construction of the theatrical building of Coliseo del Buen Retiro. Lope's formulas begins with a verse that it unbefitting of the palace theatre foundation and the birth of new concepts that begun the careers of some play writers like Calderón de la Barca. Marking the principal innovations of the New Lopesian Comedy, Calderón's style marked many differences, with a great deal of constructive care and attention to his internal structure. Calderón's work is in formal perfection and a very lyric and symbolic language. Liberty, vitality and openness of Lope gave a step to Calderón's intellectual reflection and formal precision. In his comedy it reflected his ideological and doctrine intentions in above the passion and the action, the work of Autos sacramentales achieved high ranks. The genre of Comedia is political, multi-artistic and in a sense hybrid. The poetic text interweaved with Medias and resources originating from architecture, music and painting freeing the deception that is in the Lopesian comedy was made up from the lack of scenery and engaging the dialogue of action.\n\nThe best known German playwright was Andreas Gryphius, who used the Jesuit model of the Dutch Joost van den Vondel and Pierre Corneille. There was also Johannes Velten who combined the traditions of the English comedians and the commedia del'arte with the classic theatre of Corneille and Molière. His touring company was perhaps the most significant and important of the 17th century.\n\nMadame de Pompadour, the mistress of Louis XV, probably without intending it, contributed to the decline of the baroque and rococo style. In 1750 she sent her nephew, Abel-François Poisson de Vandières, on a two-year mission to study artistic and archeological developments in Italy. He was accompanied by several artists, including the engraver Nicolas Cochin and the architect Soufflot. They returned to Paris with a passion for classical art. Vandiéres became the Marquis of Marigny, and was named Royal Director of buildings in 1754. He turned official French architecture toward the neoclassical. Cochin became an important art critic; he denounced the \"petit style\" of Boucher, and called for a grand style with a new emphasis on antiquity and nobility in the academies of painting of architecture. \n\nThe pioneer German art historian and archeologist Johann Joachim Winckelmann also condemned the baroque style, and praised the superior values of classical art and architecture. By the 19th century, Baroque was a target for ridicule and criticism. The neoclassical critic Francesco Milizia wrote: \"Borrominini in architecture, Bernini in sculpture, Pierre de Cortone in painting...are a plague on good taste, which infected a large number of artists.\" In the 19th century, criticism went even further; the British critic John Ruskin declared that baroque sculpture was not only bad, but also morally corrupt.\n\nThe Swiss-born art historian Heinrich Wölfflin (1864–1945) started the rehabilitation of the word Baroque in his Renaissance und Barock (1888); Wölfflin identified the Baroque as \"movement imported into mass\", an art antithetic to Renaissance art. He did not make the distinctions between Mannerism and Baroque that modern writers do, and he ignored the later phase, the academic Baroque that lasted into the 18th century. Baroque art and architecture became fashionable between the two World Wars, and has largely remained in critical favor. The term \"Baroque\" may still be used, usually pejoratively, describing works of art, craft, or design that are thought to have excessive ornamentation or complexity of line.\n\n"}
{"id": "26498821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26498821", "title": "Big Writing", "text": "Big Writing\n\nBig Writing is an approach to teaching writing developed by Ros Wilson and marketed by Andrell Education. The aim of Big Writing is to advise schools on how to raise attainment level in speaking, listening and writing. The method is currently used by numerous schools, primarily in the UK but also overseas. The target audience for Big writing are Key Stage 1 and Key Stage 2 students (i.e. those aged 5 to 11), although a slightly adjusted method is also taught that focuses on Foundation stage pupils and is known as 'Big Talk'. Andrell Education claims that Big Writing has proven to be successful in a number of schools, both with teachers and pupils, and points to case studies as evidence of this.\n\nThe first part of the Big Writing course to be developed was the Criterion Scale, an assessment tool linked to National Curriculum levels. From October 1999, Wilson spent three years working with the Kirklees LEA re-assessing work other teachers had already graded. During this time she read through and marked around 20,000 pieces of writing and observed that some teachers struggled to properly assess work, and had too high of an opinion of their pupils' writing. She also noticed the students who were underachieving, particularly the ones that teachers had given too high a grade, all had similar weaknesses in their writing. Ros Wilson decided to develop a standard that teachers could use to assess pupils' writing more accurately, and in a way that Wilson claims is more scientific. Using this, Wilson believes teachers can more accurately assess a student's work, and provide better targeted teaching and more helpful feedback.\nIn order to address the weaknesses in children's writing that she noted as being common across schools, Wilson identified four features that she believes are key to improving writing in the primary age range: vocabulary, connectives, openers and punctuation, or V.C.O.P. Stealing and borrowing are also encouraged when pupils see elements of V.C.O.P. in peers' work that they like. Together with the Criterion Scale, V.C.O.P. became a core part of the Big Writing approach, which Wilson and Andrell Education have promoted through books and professional development courses.\n\nBig Writing also emphasises talk for writing, and that pupils need to be taught to speak Standard English in order to help them make fewer spelling and grammar mistakes in their writing.\n\nAndrell advises that classes have regular Big Write sessions (ideally lasting one and a half hours, in order to allow children time to write at length), perhaps once a week, as well as regular short exercises throughout the school week in which children develop writing and editing skills with a focus on V.C.O.P.\n\nRos Wilson also advocates creating a positive environment for a writing through the use of candles, music and whatever else a teacher feels is beneficial in creating the right mood for learning.\n\n"}
{"id": "55835548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55835548", "title": "Blessing of animals", "text": "Blessing of animals\n\nBlessing of animals can be either of the animal or of the human-animal relationship, and can apply to pets and other companion animals, or to agricultural animals and working and other animals which humans depend on or interact with.\n\nBlessing of animals, or of the slaughtering process, before slaughter, is a key element of some religions.\n\nCeremonial blessing of companion animals occurs throughout the world, for example, Australia, Canada, Scotland, Spain, and the United States.\n\nBlessing of animals is a religious activity, and occurs broadly across most religions in some form, including, for example, across Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Shintoism, Unitarian Universalism, amongst others.\n\nSecular respect for animals is also strong, for example, World Animal Day, an international day of action for animal rights and welfare celebrated annually, but is still held on 4 October, the feast day of Francis of Assisi, a Christian patron saint of animals.\n\nAnnually now, on or around October 4, Christians worldwide celebrate the Feast of Saint Francis with a blessing of animals and prayers for creation.\n\nThe Catholic variant of Christianity has specific liturgies for the blessing of animals, highlighting creation and interdependence. United Methodists also have a specific liturgy highlighting creation and mutual interdependence.\n\nSeparate variants of Christianity will sometimes combine to hold joint, ecumenical, animal blessing ceremonies, for example Catholic and Episcopalian churches.\n\nMany synagogues now have ceremonies for the blessing of animals, and some say the idea may have originated in ancient Judaism. The Jewish ceremony is often performed on the seventh day of Passover (in the spring) as a celebration of the Hebrews’ (and their animals’) emancipation from slavery in Egypt more than 3,000 years ago. Many Jewish congregations schedule blessings of the animals after the High Holy Days, with ceremonies around the second weekly Torah portion of the Jewish Year, the Parashat Noach, the portion about Noah and the ark, the saving of both humans and other animals, they also being gifts from God.\n\nOther Jewish ceremonies are derived from the Christian ceremony and are not derived from traditional Judaism, which gives some concern for more traditional followers of Judaism.\n\nFor meat to be kosher, a ritual blessing to God is required for the animals about to be slaughtered, shechita.\n\nA Bark Mitzvah is an observance and celebration of a dog's coming of age, analogous to the Jewish traditional Bar Mitzvah and Bat Mitzvah terminology. The term has been in use since at least 1958.\n\nThe bark mitzvah ceremony is not universally well regarded in Judaism.\n\nIslamic dhabiha requires that God's name be pronounced before each slaughter.\n\nSome towns and cities have the blessing of animals as a cultural event, for example:\n\nRare animal instances can have great significance in belief systems and may be ritually blessed as part of that tradition, for example the white buffalo, Kenahkihinén, in North America.\n\n\n\nThere are now a very large number of places blessing animals, in particular pets and companion animals, regularly on an annual basis. A very small sample of these include:\n\nThe Lorscher Bienensegen, believed to date back to the 9th century, is a Christian bee-keeping prayer written in Old High German to bring honey bees back to their hives in good health, and may arise from earlier Anglo-Saxon and apparently pagan \"For a Swarm of Bees\" in pre-Christian Germanic areas.\n\nSaint Francis of Assisi is associated with the patronage of animals and it has become customary for Catholic and Anglican churches to carryout animal blessing ceremonies on his feast day of 4 October.\n\nSaint Dwynwen is more known for being a Welsh patron saint of lovers but she is also lesser known as being the patron saint of sick animals which she would bless. \n\nLegend has it that in the 4th century, whole herds of wild animals would come for the blessing of Saint Blaise.\n\nAccording to legend, a cat saved Muhammad from a snake. In gratitude, Muhammad stroked the cat's back and forehead, thus blessing all cats with the righting reflex.\n\nAnimal chaplaincy is typically associated with veterinary work. Veterinary chaplains minister in regard to the spirituality associated with animals and the human-animal bond and responsibilities, and perform animal blessings as part of a broad range of services.\n\nAny animal can be blessed and a wide variety have been blessed during blessing ceremonies. It depends on what people bring on the day. Included have been:\n\nThe safety of animals and people is important. Due consideration also needs to be given to any mess some animals may make.\n\nPETA have an alternative view on animal blessing events, and proffer the following points:\n\n"}
{"id": "17954807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17954807", "title": "Campaign for Drawing", "text": "Campaign for Drawing\n\nThe Big Draw, formerly the Campaign for Drawing, is a UK registered charity that promotes drawing and visual literacy. It was founded in 2000 by the Guild of St George, and is now an independent charity.\n\nThe Big Draw believes that drawing is a universal language that can unite people across generations, backgrounds and borders. It is inspired by the Victorian artist and writer, John Ruskin, whose mission was not to teach people how to draw, but how to see. An arts educational charity, the Campaign demonstrates that drawing is a life skill: an essential tool for learning, expression and invention. Its publications for teachers and other educators provide comprehensive evidence that drawing supports formal and informal learning.\n\nThe charity leads a programme of advocacy, empowerment and engagement, and is the driving force behind The Big Draw Festival – the world’s biggest celebration of drawing.\n\nThe charity supports established and emerging artists through The John Ruskin Prize and exhibition, and regular events, awards and competitions.\n\nThe Big Draw manages collaborative research projects, campaigns and educational conferences on visual literacy, digital technology and STEAM (Science, Technology, Art, Maths, Science).\n\nThe Big Draw charity is the founder and driving force behind The Big Draw Festival, which takes place each year in over 20 countries around the world. \n\nEvents often take place at notable venues throughout the UK including The British Museum, The National Gallery and Victoria and Albert Museum as well as schools, community centres, parks and village halls. The 2013 Big Draw highlight event offered visitors 20 different activities in the new Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park. Previous launches were held at the Natural History Museum, V&A (twice), Trafalgar Square, St Pancras International Station, Welcome Collection and the British Library.\n\nThe Big Draw receives no core funding. Previously, it has been sponsored by bodies as diverse as NESTA, Arts Council England (ACE), Crayola, Daler-Rowney, Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, Paul Hamlyn Foundation, Barbara Whatmore Charitable Trust, Financial Times, Heritage Lottery Fund, National Lottery, Persil, Puffin, Royal Academy of Engineering and Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), Derwent and Cass Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "50780608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50780608", "title": "Caucasian dhol", "text": "Caucasian dhol\n\nCaucasian Dhol (, , , , ) is a kind of dhol drums in the Caucasus. This drum was used by the Caucasian warriors in the battle, today for national music playing.\n\nСaucasian dhol is a double-sided barrel drum, the shell used from wood or acrylic plastic, and the heads from thinnest leather or synthetic plastic film. The traditional preferences is shell from walnut wood and the heads from goat skin. The skin or plastic film should be spanned on strong iron round rod, strong during the tuning up of the drum heads the rod should not be bent, the round rod is optimal for touch hands. Adjustment made by hemp or synthetic rope.\n\nСaucasian dhol played mostly as an accompanying instrument with Garmon, Zurna and Clarinet. There are two playing variants, one with hands and the second with two wooden sticks, usually the sticks made out of dogwood because this is heavy wood.\n\nIn Armenia it is called Dhol, in Azerbaijan called Naqara, their dhols used from natural thinnest leather skin or plastic film heads and the shell is wooden or acrylic plastic. The playing is only with hands.\n\nIn Chechnya and Ingushetia it's called Fuott or Wuott, and as many traditional drums, was made from cylindrical wooden shell and acoustic membrane from natural leather skin, traditionally played with the bare hands.\n\nIn Georgia and Abkhazia it is called Dholi or Doli, their dhols almost used from natural thick leather skin heads and wooden shell. The playing is almost with hands.\n\nIn Southern Russia it is called Douli, their dhols is the same as the Armenian and Azerbaijani.\n"}
{"id": "6252669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6252669", "title": "Central composite design", "text": "Central composite design\n\nIn statistics, a central composite design is an experimental design, useful in response surface methodology, for building a second order (quadratic) model for the response variable without needing to use a complete three-level factorial experiment.\n\nAfter the designed experiment is performed, linear regression is used, sometimes iteratively, to obtain results. Coded variables are often used when constructing this design.\n\nThe design consists of three distinct sets of experimental runs:\n\n\nThe design matrix for a central composite design experiment involving \"k\" factors is derived from a matrix, d, containing the following three different parts corresponding to the three types of experimental runs:\n\nThen d is the vertical concatenation:\n\nThe design matrix X used in linear regression is the horizontal concatenation of a column of 1s (intercept), d, and all elementwise products of a pair of columns of d:\n\nwhere d(\"i\") represents the \"i\"th column in d. \n\nThere are many different methods to select a useful value of α. Let \"F\" be the number of points due to the factorial design and \"T\" = 2\"k\" + \"n\", the number of additional points, where \"n\" is the number of central points in the design. Common values are as follows (Myers, 1971):\n\nStatistical approaches such as RSM can be employed to maximize the production of a special substance by optimization of operational factors. In contrast to conventional methods, the interaction among process variables can be determined by statistical techniques. For instance, in a study, a central composite design was employed to investigate the effect of critical parameters of organosolv pretreatment of rice straw including temperature, time, and ethanol concentration. The residual solid, lignin recovery, and hydrogen yield were selected as the response variables.\n\nMyers, Raymond H. \"Response Surface Methodology\". Boston: Allyn and Bacon, Inc., 1971\n"}
{"id": "6198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6198", "title": "Convention on Biological Diversity", "text": "Convention on Biological Diversity\n\nThe Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), known informally as the Biodiversity Convention, is a multilateral treaty. The Convention has three main goals including: the conservation of biological diversity (or biodiversity); the sustainable use of its components; and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from genetic resources.\n\nIn other words, its objective is to develop national strategies for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity. It is often seen as the key document regarding sustainable development. The Convention was opened for signature at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro on 5 June 1992 and entered into force on 29 December 1993. At the 2010 10th Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity in October in Nagoya, Japan, the Nagoya Protocol was adopted.\n\nThe notion of an international convention on bio-diversity was conceived at a United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Ad Hoc Working Group of Experts on Biological Diversity in November 1988. The subsequent year, the Ad Hoc Working Group of Technical and Legal Experts was established for the drafting of a legal text which addressed the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, as well as the sharing of benefits arising from their utilization with sovereign states and local communities.\nIn 1991, an intergovernmental negotiating committee was established, tasked with finalizing the convention's text.\n\nA Conference for the Adoption of the Agreed Text of the Convention on Biological Diversity was held in Nairobi, Kenya, in 1992, and its conclusions were distilled in the Nairobi Final Act. The Convention's text was opened for signature on 5 June 1992 at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (the Rio \"Earth Summit\"). By its closing date, 4 June 1993, the convention had received 168 signatures. It entered into force on 29 December 1993.\n\nThe convention recognized for the first time in international law that the conservation of biodiversity is \"a common concern of humankind\" and is an integral part of the development process. The agreement covers all ecosystems, species, and genetic resources. It links traditional conservation efforts to the economic goal of using biological resources sustainably. It sets principles for the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources, notably those destined for commercial use. It also covers the rapidly expanding field of biotechnology through its Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, addressing technology development and transfer, benefit-sharing and biosafety issues. Importantly, the Convention is legally binding; countries that join it ('Parties') are obliged to implement its provisions.\n\nThe convention reminds decision-makers that natural resources are not infinite and sets out a philosophy of sustainable use. While past conservation efforts were aimed at protecting particular species and habitats, the Convention recognizes that ecosystems, species and genes must be used for the benefit of humans. However, this should be done in a way and at a rate that does not lead to the long-term decline of biological diversity.\n\nThe convention also offers decision-makers guidance based on the precautionary principle which demands that where there is a threat of significant reduction or loss of biological diversity, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing measures to avoid or minimize such a threat. The Convention acknowledges that substantial investments are required to conserve biological diversity. It argues, however, that conservation will bring us significant environmental, economic and social benefits in return.\n\nThe Convention on Biological Diversity of 2010 banned some forms of geoengineering.\n\nSome of the many issues dealt with under the convention include:\n\n\nThe Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety of the Convention, also known as the Biosafety Protocol, was adopted in January 2000. The Biosafety Protocol seeks to protect biological diversity from the potential risks posed by living modified organisms resulting from modern biotechnology.\n\nThe Biosafety Protocol makes clear that products from new technologies must be based on the precautionary principle and allow developing nations to balance public health against economic benefits. It will for example let countries ban imports of a genetically modified organism if they feel there is not enough scientific evidence the product is safe and requires exporters to label shipments containing genetically modified commodities such as corn or cotton.\n\nThe required number of 50 instruments of ratification/accession/approval/acceptance by countries was reached in May 2003. In accordance with the provisions of its Article 37, the Protocol entered into force on 11 September 2003.\n\nIn April 2002, the parties of the UN CBD adopted the recommendations of the Gran Canaria Declaration Calling for a Global Plant Conservation Strategy, and adopted a 16-point plan aiming to slow the rate of plant extinctions around the world by 2010.\n\nAs of 2016, the Convention has 196 parties, which includes 195 states and the European Union. All UN member states—with the exception of the United States—have ratified the treaty. Non-UN member states that have ratified are the Cook Islands, Niue, and the State of Palestine. The Holy See and the states with limited recognition are non-parties. The US has signed but not ratified the treaty, and has not announced plans to ratify it.\n\nConference of the parties:\nThe convention's governing body is the Conference of the parties (COP), consisting of all governments (and regional economic integration organizations) that have ratified the treaty. This ultimate authority reviews progress under the Convention, identifies new priorities, and sets work plans for members. The COP can also make amendments to the Convention, create expert advisory bodies, review progress reports by member nations, and collaborate with other international organizations and agreements.\n\nThe Conference of the Parties uses expertise and support from several other bodies that are established by the Convention. In addition to committees or mechanisms established on an ad hoc basis, two main organs are:\n\nSecretariat:\nThe CBD Secretariat, based in Montreal, operates under the United Nations Environment Programme. Its main functions are to organize meetings, draft documents, assist member governments in the implementation of the programme of work, coordinate with other international organizations, and collect and disseminate information.\n\nSubsidiary body for Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice (SBSTTA):\nThe SBSTTA is a committee composed of experts from member governments competent in relevant fields. It plays a key role in making recommendations to the COP on scientific and technical issues.\n\nThe 13th Meeting of the SBSTTA, or SBSTTA-13, held from 18–22 February 2008 at the FAO headquarters in Rome, Italy. SBSTTA-13 delegates finalized and adopted recommendations on the in-depth reviews of the work programmes on agricultural and forest biodiversity and SBSTTA's modus operandi for the consideration of new and emerging issues, as well as on inland waters biodiversity, marine biodiversity, invasive alien species, and biodiversity and climate change.\n\nThe current chairperson of the SBSTTA is Dr. Theresa Mundita Lim of the Philippines.\n\n\"National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans (NBSAPs) are the principal instruments for implementing the Convention at the national level (Article 6). The Convention requires countries to prepare a national biodiversity strategy (or equivalent instrument) and to ensure that this strategy is mainstreamed into the planning and activities of all those sectors whose activities can have an impact (positive and negative) on biodiversity. To date [2012-02-01], 173 Parties have developed NBSAPs in line with Article 6.\"\n\nFor example, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Tanzania have carried out elaborate responses to conserve individual species and specific habitats. The United States of America, a signatory who has not yet ratified the treaty, has produced one of the most thorough implementation programs through species Recovery Programs and other mechanisms long in place in the USA for species conservation.\n\nSingapore has also established a detailed \"National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan\". The \"National Biodiversity Centre\" of Singapore represents Singapore in the Convention for Biological Diversity.\n\nIn accordance with Article 26 of the Convention, Parties prepare national reports on the status of implementation of the Convention.\n\nThe current executive secretary is Cristiana Pașca Palmer, who took up this post on 17 March 2017. Braulio Ferreira de Souza Dias was the previous executive secretary.\n\nThe Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity is a supplementary agreement to the Convention on Biological Diversity. It provides a transparent legal framework for the effective implementation of one of the three objectives of the CBD: the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources. The Protocol was adopted on 29 October 2010 in Nagoya, Aichi Province, Japan, and entered into force on 12 October 2014. Its objective is the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, thereby contributing to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.\n\nThe first ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in November and December 1994, in Nassau, Bahamas.\n\nThe second ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in November 1995, in Jakarta, Indonesia.\n\nThe third ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in November 1996, in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nThe fourth ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in May 1998, in Bratislava, Slovakia.\n\nThe First Extraordinary Meeting of the Conference of the Parties took place in February 1999, in Cartagena, Colombia.\n\nThe fifth ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in May 2000, in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nThe sixth ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in April 2002, in The Hague, Netherlands.\n\nThe seventh ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in February 2004, in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.\n\nThe eighth ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in March 2006, in Curitiba, Brazil.\n\nThe ninth ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in May 2008, in Bonn, Germany.\n\nThe tenth ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place in October 2010, in Nagoya, Japan.\n\nLeading up to the Conference of the Parties (COP 11) meeting on biodiversity in Hyderabad, India 2012, preparations for a World Wide Views on Biodiversity has begun, involving old and new partners and building on the experiences from the World Wide Views on Global Warming.\n\nUnder the theme, \"Biodiversity for Sustainable Development,\" thousands of representatives of governments, NGOs, indigenous peoples, scientists and the private sector gathered in Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea in October 2014 for the 12th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 12).\n\nFrom 6–17 October 2014, Parties discussed the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 and its Aichi Biodiversity Targets, which are to be achieved by the end of this decade. The results of Global Biodiversity Outlook 4, the flagship assessment report of the CBD informed the discussions.\n\nThe conference gave a mid-term evaluation to the UN Decade on Biodiversity (2011-2020) initiative, which aims to promote the conservation and sustainable use of nature.\nAt the end of the meeting, the meeting adopted the \"Pyeongchang Road Map,\" which addresses ways to achieve biodiversity through technology cooperation, funding and strengthening the capacity of developing countries.\n\nThe thirteenth ordinary meeting of the parties to the convention took place between 2 and 17 December 2016 in Cancun, Mexico.\n\n2010 was the International Year of Biodiversity and the Secretariat of the CBD was its focal point. Following a recommendation of CBD signatories during COP 10 at Nagoya in October 2010, the UN, on 22 December 2010, declared 2011 to 2020 as the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity.\n\nThere have been criticisms against CBD that the Convention has been weakened in implementation due to the resistance of Western countries to the implementation of the pro-South provisions of the Convention. CBD is also regarded as a case of a hard treaty gone soft in the implementation trajectory The argument to enforce the treaty as a legally binding multilateral instrument with the Conference of Parties reviewing the infractions and non-compliance is also gaining strength\n\nAlthough the convention explicitly states that all forms of life are covered by its provisions, examination of reports and of national biodiversity strategies and action plans submitted by participating countries shows that in practice this is not happening. The fifth report of the European Union, for example, makes frequent reference to animals (particularly fish) and plants, but does not mention bacteria, fungi or protists at all. The International Society for Fungal Conservation has assessed more than 100 of these CBD documents for their coverage of fungi using defined criteria to place each in one of six categories. No documents were assessed as good or adequate, less than 10% as nearly adequate or poor, and the rest as deficient, seriously deficient or totally deficient.\nFurthermore, intensive monoculture and human overpopulation are the two most pertinent biodiversity issues to address.\n\nScientists working with biodiversity and medical research are expressing fears that the Nagoya Protocol is counterproductive, and will will hamper disease prevention and conservation efforts, and that the threat of imprisonment of scientists will have a chilling effect on research. Non-commercial researchers and institutions such as natural history museums fear maintaining biological reference collections and exchanging material between institutions will become difficult, and medical researchers have expressed alarm at plans to expand the protocol to make it illegal to publicly share genetic information, e.g. via GenBank.\n\n\n\"This article is partly based on the relevant entry in the CIA World Factbook, edition.\"\n\nThere are indeed several comprehensive publications on the subject, the given reference covers only one small aspect\n\n"}
{"id": "32615057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32615057", "title": "Critical Quarterly", "text": "Critical Quarterly\n\nCritical Quarterly is a peer-reviewed academic journal in the humanities published by Wiley-Blackwell. The editor-in-chief is Colin MacCabe. The journal notably published the Black Papers on education starting in 1969.\n\n\"Critical Quarterly\" was established in 1958 by its first editors Brian Cox (C. B. Cox) and A. E. Dyson. Cox's intellectual formation was in the Department of English Literature at the University of Cambridge, then dominated by the figure of F. R. Leavis. The latter's legacy was a notable feature of \"Critical Quarterly\"'s early years, when it published work by a new generation of scholars including Raymond Williams, David Lodge, and Frank Kermode. In some respects the journal sought to modify Leavis's project; in particular Cox and Dyson felt that Leavis and his acolytes tended unfairly to ignore contemporary writing, partly because of their unshakeable belief in the \"myth of a culture in decline\". The early years of the journal were notable for the inclusion of contemporary poetry, and \"Critical Quarterly\" helped to launch the careers of Sylvia Plath (who won one of the first poetry competitions), Thom Gunn, Philip Larkin, and Ted Hughes.\n\nIn 1987, after nearly 30 years of Cox's editorship, Colin MacCabe took over as editor, announcing some new ambitions for the journal in \"Aims for \"Critical Quarterly\"\". The \"Year's Work in English Studies\" for 1987 noted that \"\"CritQ\" certainly had seemed for many years to be stuck in a rut, even if a pleasant and occasionally lively one, and one looks forward to the new team's effort to revamp the project entirely.\" MacCabe's name was at that time strongly associated with the (at times controversial) importation of various structuralist and post-structuralist ideas into the study of English Literature, and - while largely sticking to its original ethos - the journal moved in more theoretical directions at the same time as expanding into adjacent disciplines, notably film studies, cultural studies, and history, alongside its more traditional focus on literary criticism. Its website now claims that the journal \"addresses the whole range of cultural forms so that discussions of, for example, cinema and television can appear alongside analyses of the accepted literary canon.\" Under MacCabe's editorship, \"Critical Quarterly\" has published the work of Fredric Jameson, Slavoj Zizek, Jacqueline Rose, and Paul Gilroy, among many other prominent scholars.\n\nIn 2007, \"Critical Quarterly\" commenced publication of a book series, published by Wiley-Blackwell, which includes books by David Trotter, Moustapha Safouan, and Ashley Tauchert.\n\n"}
{"id": "32559016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32559016", "title": "Eini dialect", "text": "Eini dialect\n\nEini is an extinct variety of Khoekhoe language on the Orange River of South Africa, sometimes listed as a distinct language or mistakenly assumed to be a variety of !Ora.\n"}
{"id": "398452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398452", "title": "Erotic literature", "text": "Erotic literature\n\nErotic literature comprises fictional and factual stories and accounts of human sexual relationships which have the power to or are intended to arouse the reader sexually. Such erotica takes the form of novels, short stories, poetry, true-life memoirs, and sex manuals. A common feature of the genre is sexual fantasies on such themes as prostitution, orgies, homosexuality, sadomasochism, and many other taboo subjects and fetishes, which may or may not be expressed in explicit language. Other common elements are satire and social criticism. Despite cultural taboos on such material, circulation of erotic literature was not seen as a major problem before the invention of printing, as the costs of producing individual manuscripts limited distribution to a very small group of readers. The invention of printing, in the 15th century, brought with it both a greater market and increasing restrictions, like censorship and legal restraints on publication on the grounds of obscenity. Because of this, much of the production of this type of material became clandestine.\n\nMuch erotic literature features erotic art, illustrating the text.\n\nIn ancient Sumer, a whole cycle of poems revolved around the erotic lovemaking between the goddess Inanna and her consort Dumuzid the Shepherd.\n\nMany erotic poems have survived from ancient Greece and Rome. The Greek poets Straton of Sardis and Sappho of Lesbos both wrote erotic lyric poems. The poet Archilochus wrote numerous satirical poems filled with obscene and erotic imagery. Erotic poems continued to be written in Hellenistic and Roman times by writers like Automedon (\"The Professional\" and \"Demetrius the Fortunate\"), Philodemus (\"Charito\") and Marcus Argentarius. Notable Roman erotic poets included Catullus, Propertius, Tibullus, Ovid, Martial and Juvenal, and the anonymous Priapeia. Some later Latin authors such as Joannes Secundus also wrote erotic verse.\n\n\"The Seven Beauties\" () also known as \"Bahramnameh\" (, \"The Book of Bahram\") is a romantic epic by the Persian poet Nizami Ganjavi written in 1197. This poem is a part of the \"Nizami's Khamsa\". The original title \"Haft Peykar\" can be translated literally as “seven portraits” with the figurative meaning of “seven beauties.” The poem is a masterpiece of erotic literature, but it is also a profoundly moralistic work.\n\nDuring the Renaissance period, many poems were not written for publication; instead, they were merely circulated in manuscript form among a relatively limited readership. This was the original method of circulation for the \"Sonnets\" of William Shakespeare, who also wrote the erotic poems \"Venus and Adonis\" and \"The Rape of Lucrece\".\n\nIn the 17th century, John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester (1647–80) was notorious for obscene verses, many of which were published posthumously in compendiums of poetry by him and other Restoration rakes such as Sir Charles Sedley, Charles Sackville, 6th Earl of Dorset, and George Etherege. Though many of the poems attributed to Rochester were actually by other authors, his reputation as a libertine was such that his name was used as a selling point by publishers of collections of erotic verse for centuries after. One poem which definitely was by him was \"A Ramble in St. James's Park\" in which the protagonist's quest for healthy exercise in the park uncovers instead \"Bugg'ries, Rapes and Incest\" on ground polluted by debauchery from the time when \"Ancient Pict began to Whore\". This poem was being censored from collections of Rochester's poetry as late as 1953, though, in line with a general change in attitudes to sexuality, it was dramatised as a scene in the film \"The Libertine\" about his life based on an existing play.\n\nEnglish collections of erotic verse by various hands, include the \"Drollery\" collections of the 17th century; \"Pills to Purge Melancholy\" (1698–1720); the \"Roxburghe Ballads\"; \"Bishop Percy's Folio\"; \"The Musical Miscellany\"; \"National Ballad and Song: Merry Songs and Ballads Prior to the Year AD 1800\" (1895-7) edited by J. S. Farmer; the three volume \"Poetica Erotica\" (1921) and its more obscene supplement the \"Immortalia\" (1927) both edited by T. R. Smith. French collections include \"Les Muses gaillardes\" (1606) \"Le Cabinet satyrique\" (1618) and \"La Parnasse des poetes satyriques\" (1622).\n\nA famous collection of four erotic poems, was published in England in 1763, called \"An Essay on Woman\". This included the title piece, an obscene parody of Alexander Pope's \"An Essay on Man\"; \"Veni Creator: or, The Maid's Prayer\", which is original; the \"Universal Prayer\", an obscene parody of Pope's poem of the same name, and \"The Dying Lover to his Prick\", which parodies \"A Dying Christian to his Soul\" by Pope. These poems have been attributed to John Wilkes and/or Thomas Potter and receive the distinction of being the only works of erotic literature ever read out loud, in their entirety in the House of Lords—before being declared obscene and blasphemous by that august body and the supposed author, Wilkes, declared an outlaw.\n\nRobert Burns worked to collect and preserve Scottish folk songs, sometimes revising, expanding, and adapting them. One of the better known of these collections is \"The Merry Muses of Caledonia\" (the title is not by Burns), a collection of bawdy lyrics that were popular in the music halls of Scotland as late as the 20th century.\n\nOne of the 19th century's foremost poets—Algernon Charles Swinburne—devoted much of his considerable talent to erotic verse, producing, inter alia, twelve eclogues on flagellation titled \"The Flogging Block\" \"by Rufus Rodworthy, annotated by Barebum Birchingly\"; more was published anonymously in \"The Whippingham Papers\" (c. 1888). Another notorious anonymous 19th-century poem on the same subject is \"The Rodiad\", ascribed (seemingly falsely and in jest) to George Colman the Younger. John Camden Hotten even wrote a pornographic comic opera, \"Lady Bumtickler’s Revels\", on the theme of flagellation in 1872.\n\nPierre Louÿs helped found a literary review, \"La Conque\" in 1891, where he proceeded to publish \"Astarte\"—an early collection of erotic verse already marked by his distinctive elegance and refinement of style. He followed up in 1894 with another erotic collection in 143 prose poems—\"Songs of Bilitis (Les Chansons de Bilitis)\", this time with strong lesbian themes.\n\nAlthough D. H. Lawrence could be regarded as a writer of love poems, he usually dealt in the less romantic aspects of love such as sexual frustration or the sex act itself. Ezra Pound in his \"Literary Essays\" complained of Lawrence's interest in his own \"disagreeable sensations\" but praised him for his \"low-life narrative.\" This is a reference to Lawrence's dialect poems akin to the Scots poems of Robert Burns, in which he reproduced the language and concerns of the people of Nottinghamshire from his youth. He called one collection of poems \"Pansies\" partly for the simple ephemeral nature of the verse but also a pun on the French word \"panser\", to dress or bandage a wound. \"The Noble Englishman\" and \"Don't Look at Me\" were removed from the official edition of \"Pansies\" on the grounds of obscenity; Lawrence felt wounded by this.\n\nFrom the age of 17, Gavin Ewart acquired a reputation for wit and accomplishment through such works as \"Phallus in Wonderland\" and \"Poems and Songs\", which appeared in 1939 and was his first collection. The intelligence and casually flamboyant virtuosity with which he framed his often humorous commentaries on human behaviour made his work invariably entertaining and interesting. The irreverent eroticism for which his poetry is noted resulted in W H Smith's banning of his \"The Pleasures of the Flesh\" (1966) from their shops.\n\nCanadian poet John Glassco wrote \"Squire Hardman\" (1967), a long poem in heroic couplets, purporting to be a reprint of an 18th-century poem by George Colman the Younger, on the theme of flagellation.\n\nThe Australian poet Colin Dean as listed in the Australian Literature Resource database has an immense output of erotic verse e.g. Scribd. He has written erotic poetry in many genres: surrealist; imagist; Gothic; Phantasy; Decadent; and on Japanese, Chinese, Arabic and Indian themes. As an example he shows a keen interest in Indian thought and literature and has written many erotic poems on Indian themes: Indian mythology; classical Sanskrit plays; Indian philosophy; Indian folktales and translated Sanskrit poetry. Some of these works are: The Caurapâñcâśikâ (The Love-Thief) Of Bilhana; The Amarusataka of Amaru; Shakuntala; The Subhashitasringar; The-Travels-Of-Pandit-Ganja-Deen-The-Sadhaka; The-Twenty-Fifth-Tale-Of-The-Vetala; Rishyasringa; Gitavesya.\n\nErotic fiction is the name given to fiction that deals with sex or sexual themes, generally in a more literary or serious way than the fiction seen in pornographic magazines and sometimes including elements of satire or social criticism. Such works have frequently been banned by the government or religious authorities. It should be noted, however, that apparently non-fictional works dealing with sex or sexual themes may contain fictional elements; calling an erotic book 'a memoir' is a literary device that is common in this genre. For reasons similar to those that make pseudonyms both commonplace and often deviously set up, the boundary between fiction and non-fiction is often very diffuse. Erotic fiction is credited in large part for the sexual awakening and liberation of women into the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\n\"The Satyricon\" of Petronius Arbiter (later made into a film by Fellini) is an ancient Roman novel, which has partially survived, narrating the misadventures of an impotent man named Encolpius, who has been cursed by the god Priapus. The novel is filled with bawdy and obscene episodes, including orgies, ritual sex, and other erotic incidents. The discovery of several fragments of Lollianos's \"Phoenician Tale\" reveal that a genre of picaresque erotic novel also existed in ancient Greece. Meanwhile, some of the ancient Greek romance novels, such as \"Daphnis and Chloe\", also contain elements of sexual fantasy.\n\nFrom the medieval period, there is the \"Decameron\" (1353) by the Italian Giovanni Boccaccio (made into a film by Pasolini) which features tales of lechery by monks and the seduction of nuns from convents. This book was banned in many countries. Even five centuries after publication copies were seized and destroyed by the authorities in the US and the UK. For instance between 1954 and 1958 eight orders for destruction of the book were made by English magistrates.\n\nFrom the 15th century, another classic of Italian erotica is a series of bawdy folk tales called the \"Facetiae\" by Gian Francesco Poggio Bracciolini. \"The Tale of Two Lovers\" () written in 1444 was one of the bestselling books of the 15th century, even before its author, Aeneas Sylvius Piccolomini, became Pope Pius II. It is one of the earliest examples of an epistolary novel, full of erotic imagery. The first printed edition was published by Ulrich Zel in Cologne between 1467 and 1470.\n\nThe 16th century was notable for the \"Heptameron\" of Marguerite de Navarre (1558), inspired by Boccaccio's \"Decameron\" and the notorious \"I Modi\" which married erotic drawings, depicting postures assumed in sexual intercourse, by Giulio Romano, with obscene sonnets by Pietro Aretino.\n\nAretino also wrote the celebrated whore dialogue \"Ragionamenti\" in which the sex lives of wives, whores and nuns are compared and contrasted. Later works in the same genre include \"La Retorica delle Puttane\" (\"The Whore's Rhetoric\") (1642) by Ferrante Pallavicino; \"L'Ecole des Filles\" (The school for girls) (1655), attributed to Michel Millot and Jean L'Ange. and \"The Dialogues of Luisa Sigea\" (c. 1660) by Nicolas Chorier. Such works typically concerned the sexual education of a naive younger woman by an experienced older woman and often included elements of philosophising, satire and anti-clericalism. Donald Thomas has translated \"L'École des filles\", as \"The School of Venus\", (1972), described on its back cover as \"both an uninhibited manual of sexual technique and an erotic masterpiece of the first order\". In his diary Samuel Pepys records reading and (in an often censored passage) masturbating over this work. Chorier's \"Dialogues of Luisa Sigea\" goes a bit further than its predecessors in this genre and has the older female giving practical instruction of a lesbian nature to the younger woman plus recommending the spiritual and erotic benefits of a flogging from willing members of the holy orders. This work was translated into many languages under various different titles, appearing in English as \"A Dialogue between a Married Woman and a Maid\" in various editions. \"The School of Women\" first appeared as a work in Latin entitled \"Aloisiae Sigaeae, Toletanae, Satyra sotadica de arcanis Amoris et Veneris\". This manuscript claimed that it was originally written in Spanish by Luisa Sigea de Velasco, an erudite poet and maid of honor at the court of Lisbon and was then translated into Latin by Jean or Johannes Meursius. The attribution to Sigea and Meursius was a lie; the true author was Nicolas Chorier.\n\nA unique work of this time is \"Sodom, or the Quintessence of Debauchery\" (1684), a closet play by the notorious Restoration rake, John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester in which Bolloxinion, King of Sodom, authorises \"that buggery may be used O'er all the land, so cunt be not abused\", which order, though appealing to soldiery, has deleterious effects generally, leading the court physician to counsel: \"Fuck women, and let Bugg'ry be no more\".\n\nAn early pioneer of the publication of erotic works in England was Edmund Curll (1675–1747) who published many of the Merryland books. These were a somewhat peculiar English genre of erotic fiction in which the female body (and sometimes the male) was described in terms of a landscape. The earliest work in this genre seems to be \"Erotopolis: The Present State of Bettyland\" (1684) probably by Charles Cotton. This was included, in abbreviated form, in \"The Potent Ally: or Succours from Merryland\" (1741). Other works include \" A New Description of Merryland. Containing a Topographical, Geographical and Natural History of that Country\" (1740) by Thomas Stretzer, \"Merryland Displayed\" (1741) and set of maps entitled \"A Compleat Set of Charts of the Coasts of Merryland\" (1745). The last book in this genre appears to be a parody of Laurence Sterne's \"A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy\" (1768) entitled \"La Souriciere. The Mousetrap. A Facetious and Sentimental Excursion through part of Austrian Flanders and France\" (1794) by \"Timothy Touchit\".\n\nThe rise of the novel in 18th-century England provided a new medium for erotica. One of the most famous in this new genre was \"Fanny Hill\" (1748) by John Cleland. This book set a new standard in literary smut and was often adapted for the cinema in the 20th century. Peter Fryer suggests that \"Fanny Hill\" was a high point in British erotica, at least in the eighteenth century, in a way that mainstream literature around it had also reached a peak at that time, with writers like Defoe, Richardson and Fielding all having made important and lasting contributions to literature in its first half. After 1750, he suggests, when the began, the quality of mainstream writing and of smut declined in tandem. Writes Fryer: \"sex was driven out of the English novel in the latter half of the eighteenth century. The castration of imaginative English literature made the clandestine literature of sex the most poverty stricken and boring in Europe\".\n\nMeanwhile, French writers kept their stride. One genre, which vies in oddness with the English \"Merryland\" productions, was inspired by the newly translated \"Arabian Nights\" and involved the transformation of people into objects which were in propinquity with or employed in sexual relationships: such as sofas, dildos and even bidets. The climax of this trend is represented in French philosopher Diderot's \"Les Bijoux indiscrets\" (1747) in which a magic ring is employed to get women's vaginas to give an account of their intimate sexual histories.\n\nOther works of French erotica from this period include \"Thérèse Philosophe\" (1748) by Jean-Baptiste de Boyer, Marquis d'Argens which describes a girl's initiation into the secrets of both philosophy and sex.; \"The Lifted Curtain or Laura's Education\", about a young girl's sexual initiation by her father, written by the French revolutionary politician Comte de Mirabeau; also Les Liaisons dangereuses (Dangerous Liaisons) by Pierre Choderlos de Laclos, first published in 1782.\n\nIn the late 18th century, such works as \"Justine, or the Misfortunes of Virtue\" and \"120 Days of Sodom\" by the Marquis de Sade were exemplars of the theme of sado-masochism and influenced later erotic accounts of Sadism and masochism in fiction. De Sade (as did the later writer Sacher-Masoch) lent his name to the sexual acts which he describes in his work.\n\nIn the Victorian period, the quality of erotic fiction was much below that of the previous century—it was largely written by 'hacks'. Some works, however, borrowed from established literary models, such as Dickens. It also featured a curious form of social stratification. Even in the throes of orgasm, the social distinctions between master and servant (including form of address) were scrupulously observed. Significant elements of sado-masochism were present in some examples, perhaps reflecting the influence of the English public school, where flagellation was routinely used as a punishment. These clandestine works were often anonymous or written under a pseudonym, and sometimes undated, thus definite information about them often proves elusive.\n\nEnglish erotic novels from this period include \"The Lustful Turk\" (1828); \"The Romance of Lust\" (1873); \"The Convent School, or Early Experiences of A Young Flagellant\" (1876) by Rosa Coote [pseud.]; \"The Mysteries of Verbena House, or, Miss Bellasis Birched for Thieving\" (1882) by \"Etonensis\" [pseud.], actually by George Augustus Sala and James Campbell Reddie; \"The Autobiography of a Flea\" (1887); \"Venus in India\" (1889) by 'Captain Charles Devereaux'; \"Flossie, a Venus of Fifteen: By one who knew this Charming Goddess and worshipped at her shrine\" (1897). A novel called \"Beatrice\", once marketed as another classic of Victorian erotica from the pen of the ubiquitous \"Anon\", now appears to be a very clever 20th-century pastiche of Victorian pornography. It first appeared in 1982 and was written by one Gordon Grimley, a sometime managing director of Penthouse International.\n\nClandestine erotic periodicals of this age include \"The Pearl\", \"The Oyster\" and \"The Boudoir\", collections of erotic tales, rhymes, songs and parodies published in London between 1879 and 1883.\nThe centre of the trade in such material in England at this period was Holywell Street, off the Strand, London. An important publisher of erotic material in the early 19th century was George Cannon (1789–1854), followed in mid-century by William Dugdale (1800–1868) and John Camden Hotten (1832–1873).\n\nAn important and entertaining conspectus and evaluation of 19th-century (pre-1885) and earlier underground erotica, from the author's own private archive, is provided by Victorian writer Henry Spencer Ashbee, using the pseudonym \"Pisanus Fraxi\", in his bibliographical trilogy \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" (1877), \"Centuria Librorum Absconditorum\" (1879) and \"Catena Librorum Tacendorum\" (1885). His plot summaries of the works he discusses in these privately printed volumes are themselves a contribution to the genre. Originally of very limited circulation, changing attitudes have led to his work now being widely available.\n\nNotable European works of erotica at this time were \"Gamiani, or Two Nights of Excess\" (1833) by Frenchman Alfred de Musset and \"Venus in Furs\" (1870) by the Austrian author Leopold von Sacher-Masoch. The latter erotic novella brought the attention of the world to the phenomenon of masochism, named after the author.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century, a more \"cultured\" form of erotica began to appear by such as the poet Algernon Charles Swinburne who pursued themes of paganism, lesbianism and sado-masochism in such works as \"Lesbia Brandon\" and in contributions to \"The Whippingham Papers\" (1888) edited by St George Stock, author of \"The Romance of Chastisement\" (1866). This was associated with the Decadent movement, in particular, with Aubrey Beardsley and the \"Yellow Book\". But it was also to be found in France, amongst such writers as Pierre Louys, author of \"Les chansons de Bilitis\" (1894) (a celebration of lesbianism and sexual awakening).\n\nPioneering works of male homosexual erotica from this time were \"The Sins of the Cities of the Plain\" (1881), which features the celebrated Victorian transvestite duo of Boulton and Park as characters, and \"Teleny, or The Reverse of the Medal\" (1893).\n\nImportant publishers of erotic fiction at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th were Leonard Smithers (1861–1907) and Charles Carrington (1867–1921), both of whom were subject to legal injunctions from the British authorities in order to prohibit their trade in such material. Because of this legal harassment the latter conducted his business from Paris. Erotic fiction published by Carrington at this period includes \"\" (1894) and \"The Memoirs of Dolly Morton\" (1899) set on a slave-plantation in the Southern States of America.\n\n20th-century erotic fiction includes such classics of the genre as: \"Suburban Souls\" (1901), published by Carrington and possibly written by him also; \"The Confessions of Nemesis Hunt\" (issued in three volumes 1902, 1903, 1906), probably by George Reginald Bacchus, printed by Duringe of Paris for Leonard Smithers in London; \"Josephine Mutzenbacher\" (1906) by Felix Salten; \"Sadopaideia\" (1907) by Anon (possibly Algernon Charles Swinburne); \"Les Mémoires d'un jeune Don Juan\" (1907) and the somewhat disturbing \"Les onze mille verges\" (1907) by Guillaume Apollinaire; \"The Way of a Man with a Maid\" (1908) and \"A Weekend Visit\" by Anon; \"Pleasure Bound Afloat\" (1908), \"Pleasure Bound Ashore\" (1909) and \"Maudie\" (1909) by Anon (probably George Reginald Bacchus), and \"My Lustful Adventures\" (1911) by the pseudonymous 'Ramrod'; \"Manuel de civilité pour les petites filles à l'usage des maisons d'éducation\" (1917) and \"Trois filles de leur mère\" (1926) by Pierre Louys; \"Story of the Eye\" (1928) by Georges Bataille; \"Tropic of Cancer\" (1934) and \"Tropic of Capricorn\" (1938) by Henry Miller; The \"Story of O\" (1954) by Pauline Réage; \"Helen and Desire\" (1954) and \"Thongs\" (1955) by Alexander Trocchi; \"\" (1969) by Vladimir Nabokov; \"Journal\" (1966), \"Delta of Venus\" (1978) and \"Little Birds\" (1979) by Anaïs Nin and \"The Bicycle Rider\" (1985) by Guy Davenport and \"Lila Says\" (1999) by an anonymous author.\n\nVladimir Nabokov's \"Lolita\" is often described as an erotic novel, but other critics view it more as a literary drama with elements of eroticism.\n\n\"Lolita\" and \"The Story of O\" were published by Olympia Press, a Paris-based publisher, launched in 1953 by Maurice Girodias as a rebadged version of the Obelisk Press he inherited from his father Jack Kahane. It published a mix of erotic fiction and avant-garde literary works. \"The Girls of Radcliff Hall\" is a \"roman à clef\" novel in the form of a lesbian girls' school story written in the 1930s by the British composer and bon-vivant Gerald Berners, the 14th Lord Berners, under the pseudonym \"Adela Quebec\", published and distributed privately in 1932.\n\nAnother trend in the twentieth century was the rise of the lesbian pulp fiction. Works such as \"The Price of Salt\" (1952), \"Spring Fire\" (1952), \"Desert of the Heart\" (1964), and \"Patience and Sarah\" (1969) were only a few examples of this subgenre. Many of the authors were women themselves, such as Gale Wilhelm and Ann Bannon. Many male homosexuals also enjoyed gay pulp fiction, which borrowed the same sexploitation format as the lesbian books.\n\nChinese literature has a tradition of erotic fiction dating back to at least the 16th century. The earliest novel with explicit sexuality is \"Ruyijun zhuan\" (The Lord of Perfect Satisfaction), by Xu Changling. The critic Charles Stone has argued that pornographic technique is the \"union of banality, obscenity, and repetition,\" and contains just the \"rudiments\" of plot, style, and characterization, while anything that is not sexually stimulating is avoided. If this is the case, he concluded, then \"The Lord of Perfect Satisfaction\" is the \"fountainhead of Chinese erotica,\" but not pornography. Another notable work is \"The Carnal Prayer Mat\" usually attributed to Li Yu (1657). The most famous sexually explicit novel is the \"Jin Ping Mei\" written by an author who used only a pseudonym (his real name is unknown).\n\nThere is also a tradition of erotic fiction in Japan. Some portion of this is doujinshi, or independent comics, which are often fan fiction. The sharebon (洒落本) was a pre-modern Japanese literary genre. Plots revolved around humor and entertainment at the pleasure quarters. It is a subgenre of gesaku.\n\nIn Indonesia, a mysterious erotic writer known only as Enny Arrow wrote countless novels from the late 1970s until the early 1990s which were secretly circulated through magazine sellers. Most of the novels are known for their vulgar and hyperbolic, sometimes comical language. They are now regarded as classics by some Indonesians and have been scanned for historical purposes.\n\nIn the 21st century, a number of female authors have risen to prominence, including Alison Tyler, Rachel Kramer Bussel and Carol Queen. Janine Ashbless, Kristina Lloyd, and Portia da Costa are well known for their erotic novels and short stories. Kristina Wright is well known for her bestselling genre themed anthologies through Cleis Press, including steampunk erotica, paranormal erotic romance, and fairy tale erotica, exemplified by authors such as Shanna Germain and Michelle Augello-Page. Mitzi Szereto is an editor and author who wants to see the term 'erotica' removed from novels and anthologies that include depictions of sexual activities. Other authors celebrate the term 'erotica' but also question why literature 'with the sex left in' should be considered outside literary fiction.\n\nThe debate has been rekindled by the release, in 2012, of the \"50 Shades of Grey\" trilogy written by E. L. James. The phenomenal success of her erotica for every woman, dubbed 'mommyporn', has given rise to satires like \"Fifty Shames of Earl Grey\" by 'Fanny Merkin' (real name Andrew Shaffer), a book of essays called \"Fifty Writers on Fifty Shades\" (ed. Lori Perkins), a parody called \"Fifty Sheds of Grey\" and editors of erotic imprints re-evaluating the content and presentation of the genre.\nBooksellers and libraries also appear to be reconsidering their reluctance to carry erotica.\n\nA development in contemporary erotica has been that, contrary to some previous views that it was mainly a male interest, many women readers are aroused by it, whether it be traditional pornography or tailor-made women's erotica. Romantic novels are sometimes marketed as erotica—or vice versa—as \"mainstream\" romance in recent decades has begun to exhibit blatant (if poetic) descriptions of sex. Erotic romance is a relatively new genre of romance with an erotic theme and very explicit love scenes, but with a romance at the heart of the story. Erotic fantasy is a subgenre of fantasy fiction and utilizes erotica in a fantasy setting. These stories can essentially cover any of the other subgenres of fantasy, such as high fantasy, contemporary fantasy, or even historical fantasy. The extents of the genre to break existing conventions and limits in subject matter have managed to shock popular audiences, with genres such as monster erotica emerging with the ease of digital publishing.\n\nErotic fantasy fiction has similarities to romantic fantasy but is more explicit. Erotic fantasy can also be found in fan fiction, which uses plot elements and characters from popular fiction such as television series, movies or novels. Erotic fan fiction may use characters from existing works in relationships undreamed of by their creators, such as \"slash\" (homoerotic) fan fiction. Fan fiction and its Japanese counterpart, doujinshi, account for an enormous proportion of all erotica written today.\n\nThe Internet and digital revolution in erotic depiction has changed the forms of representing scenes of a sexual nature. One researcher concluded that erotic literature was available among the poor and performed at public readings in 18th-century Britain.\n\nErotica was present on the Internet from the earliest days, as seen from rec.arts.erotica on Usenet. This news group was a moderated forum for the exchange of erotic stories that predated the creation of the World Wide Web. Most of this migrated to the alt.* hierarchy forums by the 1990s, including alt.sex.stories. The vast majority of Internet erotica is of an amateur nature, written for the enjoyment of the author and readers instead of for profit. Increased interactivity and anonymity allows casual or hobby writers the opportunity not only to author their own stories but also to share them with a world-wide audience. Many authors adopt colorful pseudonyms and can develop cult followings within their genre, though a small number use (or claim to use) their real names. Among transgender or genderqueer authors it is a common practice to adopt a feminine or masculine alter-ego, although it is not unheard of for a writer to use his or her own given name.\n\nProstitution was the focus of much of the earliest erotic works. The very term \"pornography\" is derived from the Greek \"pornographos\" meaning \"writer about prostitutes\", originally denoting descriptions of the lives and manners of prostitutes and their customers in Ancient Greece. According to Athenaeus in \"The Deipnosophists\" these constituted a considerable genre, with many lubricious treatises, stories and dramas on the subject. A surviving example of this genre is Lucian of Samosata's \"Dialogues of the Courtesans\".\n\nAccounts of prostitution have continued as a major part of the genre of erotic literature. In the 18th century directories of prostitutes and their services, such as \"Harris's List of Covent Garden Ladies\" (1757–1795), provided both entertainment and instruction.\n\nIn the 19th century, the sensational journalism of W. T. Stead's \"The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon\" (1885) about the procuring of underage girls into the brothels of Victorian London provided a stimulus for the erotic imagination. Stead's account was widely translated and the revelation of \"padded rooms for the purpose of stifling the cries of the tortured victims of lust and brutality\" and the symbolic figure of \"The Minotaur of London\" confirmed European observers worst imaginings about \"Le Sadisme anglais\" and inspired erotic writers to write of similar scenes set in London or involving sadistic English gentlemen. Such writers include D'Annunzio in \"Il Piacere\", Paul-Jean Toulet in \"Monsieur de Paur\" (1898), Octave Mirbeau in \"Jardin des Supplices\" (1899) and Jean Lorrain in \"Monsieur de Phocas\" (1901).\n\nWell-known recent works in this genre are \"The Happy Hooker: My Own Story\" (1971) by the Dutch madame Xaviera Hollander and \"The Intimate Adventures of a London Call Girl\" (2005) by Belle de Jour.\n\nErotic memoirs include Casanova's \"Histoire de ma vie\", from the 18th century. Notable English works of this genre from the 19th century include \"The Ups and Downs of Life\" (1867) by Edward Sellon and \"My Secret Life\" by \"Walter\". Edward Sellon was a writer, translator and illustrator of erotic literature who wrote erotica for the pornographic publisher William Dugdale, including such works as \"The New Epicurean\" (1865). The true identity of \"Walter\" is very mysterious. Ian Gibson, in \"The Erotomaniac\" speculates that \"My Secret Life\" was really written by Henry Spencer Ashbee and therefore it is possible that \"Walter\" is a fiction. A famous German erotic work of this time, published in two parts in 1868 and 1875 entitled \"Pauline the Prima Donna\" purports to be the memoirs of the opera singer Wilhelmine Schröder-Devrient. Various discrepancies with known facts of the singer's life, however, have led many to doubt the veracity of this book and the erotic adventures contained in the second volume, at least, appear to be very implausible. These include the author indulging in lesbian sadomasochism, group sex, sodomy, bestiality, scatology, necrophilia, prostitution and vampirism: all before she had reached the age of 27. 20th-century contributions to the genre include Frank Harris's \"My Life and Loves\" (1922–27) and the convicted Austrian sex criminal Edith Cadivec's \"Confessions and Experiences\" and its sequel \"Eros, the Meaning of My Life\" (published together 1930-1). A 21st-century example is \"One Hundred Strokes of the Brush Before Bed\" (2004) by Melissa Panarello.\n\nSex manuals are among the oldest forms of erotic literature. Three brief fragments of a sex manual written in the fourth century BC that is attributed to Philaenis of Samos have survived, though modern scholars generally regard it as a work of parody probably written by a man, most likely the Athenian sophist Polycrates. Other examples of the genre from the classical world include the lost works of Elephantis and Ovid's \"Ars Amatoria\". The Indian \"Kama Sutra\" is one of the world's best-known works of this type. The \"Ananga Ranga\", a 12th-century collection of Indian erotic works, is a lesser known one. Also very famous, and often reprinted and translated, is \"The Perfumed Garden for the Soul's Recreation\", a 16th-century Arabic work by Sheikh Nefzaoui. There is anecdotal evidence that at least as late as the mid-20th century sex therapists and other physicians prescribed erotic literature as treatment for erectile dysfunction.\n\nThe ancient Chinese versions of the sex manual include the texts that contain the Taoist sexual practices. These include books that show illustrations of the ideal sexual behavior because sex in this religion is not considered taboo but a manifestation of the concept of the yin and yang, wherein the male and female engage in an act of \"joining of energy\" or \"joining of essences\". The belief is that proper sexual practice is key to achieving good health. The manuals included the Ishinpo text, which is a medical document that also included sections devoted to sexual hygiene and sexual manuals of the Tang and Han dynasties.\n\nNot all sex manuals were produced to arouse or inform readers about sexual acts. There are also those created as a form of satire or social criticism. For instance, there is the case of mock-sex manual produced in the early sixteenth century by Pietro Aretino in response to the clerical censorship of the nude engravings of the Roman artists Marcantonio Raimondi. This was released in cheap wood, with a corresponding sonnet serving as the \"voice\" of the characters.\n\nErotic or pornographic works have often been prosecuted, censored and destroyed by the authorities on grounds of obscenity. In Medieval England, erotic or pornographic publications were the concern of the ecclesiastical courts. After the Reformation the jurisdiction of these courts declined in favour of the Crown which licensed every printed book. Prosecutions of books for their erotic content alone were rare and works which attacked the church or state gave much more concern to the authorities than erotica or 'obscene libel' as it was then known. For instance the Licensing Act of 1662 was aimed generally at \"heretical, seditious, schismatical or offensive books of pamphlets\" rather than just erotica per se. Even this Licensing Act was allowed to lapse in 1695 and no attempt made to renew it.\n\nThe first conviction for obscenity in England occurred in 1727, when Edmund Curll was fined for the publication of \"Venus in the Cloister or The Nun in her Smock\" under the common law offence of disturbing the King's peace. This set a legal precedent for other convictions. The publication of other books by Curll, however, considered seditious and blasphemous, such as \"The Memoirs of John Ker\", apparently most offended the authorities. Prosecutions of erotica later in the 18th century were rare and were most often taken because of the admixture of seditious and blasphemous material with the porn. For instance, no proceedings were taken against the publishers of Cleland's notorious \"Fanny Hill\" (1763).\n\n It was the Obscene Publications Act 1857 which made the sale of obscene material a statutory offence, for the first time, giving the courts power to seize and destroy offending material. The origins of the Act itself were in a trial for the sale of pornography presided over by the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Campbell, at the same time as a debate in the House of Lords over a bill aiming to restrict the sale of poisons. Campbell was taken by the analogy between the two situations, famously referring to the London pornography trade as \"a sale of poison more deadly than prussic acid, strychnine or arsenic\", and proposed a bill to restrict the sale of pornography; giving statutory powers of destruction would allow for a much more effective degree of prosecution. The bill was controversial at the time, receiving strong opposition from both Houses of Parliament, and was passed on the assurance by the Lord Chief Justice that it was \"... intended to apply exclusively to works written for the single purpose of corrupting the morals of youth and of a nature calculated to shock the common feelings of decency in any well-regulated mind.\" The House of Commons successfully amended it so as not to apply to Scotland, on the grounds that Scottish common law was sufficiently stringent.\n\nThe Act provided for the seizure and destruction of any material deemed to be obscene, and held for sale or distribution, following information being laid before a \"court of summary jurisdiction\" (Magistrates' court). The Act required that following evidence of a common-law offence being committed - for example, on the report of a plain-clothes policeman who had successfully purchased the material - the court could issue a warrant for the premises to be searched and the material seized. The proprietor then would be called upon to attend court and give reason why the material should not be destroyed. Critically, the Act did not define \"obscene,\" leaving this to the will of the courts.\n\nWhilst the Act itself did not change, the scope of the work affected by it did. In 1868 Sir Alexander Cockburn, Campbell's successor as Lord Chief Justice, held in an appeal that the test of obscenity was \"...whether the tendency of the matter charged as obscenity is to deprave and corrupt those whose minds are open to such immoral influences and into whose hands a publication of this sort may fall.\" This was clearly a major change from Campbell's opinion only ten years before - the test now being the effect on someone open to corruption who obtained a copy, not whether the material was \"intended\" to corrupt or offend.\n\nCockburn's declaration remained in force for several decades, and most of the high profile seizures under the Act relied on this interpretation. Known as the Hicklin test no cognisance was taken of the literary merit of a book or on the extent of the offending text within the book in question. The widened scope of the original legislation led to the subsequent notorious targeting of now acknowledged classics of world literature by such authors as Zola, James Joyce and D.H. Lawrence plus medical textbooks by such as Havelock Ellis rather than the blatant erotica which was the original target of this law.\n\nIn contrast to England, where actions against obscene literature were the preserve of the magistrates, in America such actions were the responsibility of the Postal Inspection Service, embodied in the federal and state Comstock laws, named after the postal officer and anti-obscenity crusader Anthony Comstock who proved himself officious in the work of suppression both in his official capacity and through his New York Society for the Suppression of Vice. The first such law was the Comstock Act, (ch. 258 enacted March 3, 1873) which made it illegal to send any \"obscene, lewd, and/or lascivious\" materials through the mail. Twenty-four states passed similar prohibitions on materials distributed within the states.\n\nThis question of whether a book had literary merit eventually prompted a change in the law in both America and the UK. In the United Kingdom the Obscene Publications Act 1959 provided for the protection of \"literature\" but conversely increased the penalties against pure \"pornography.\" The law defined obscenity and separated it from serious works of art.\n\nThe new definition read:\n\n[A]n article shall be deemed to be obscene if its effect or (where the article comprises two or more distinct items) the effect of any one of its items is, if taken as a whole, such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely, having regard to all relevant circumstances, to read, see or hear the matter contained or embodied in it.\n\nAfter this piece of legislation questions of the literary merit of the work in question were allowed to be put before the judge and jury as in the \"Lady Chatterley\" trial. The publishers of the latter book were found not guilty by the court on the grounds of the literary merit of the book. In later prosecutions of literary erotica under the provisions of the act, however, even purely pornographic works with no apparent literary merit escaped destruction by the authorities. Purely textual pornographic texts, with no hint of libel, ceased to be brought to trial following the collapse of the \"Inside Linda Lovelace\" trial in 1976. However, in October 2008, a man was unsuccessfully prosecuted under the Obscene Publications Act (the R v Walker trial) for posting fictional written material to the Internet allegedly describing the kidnap, rape and murder of the pop group Girls Aloud.\n\nThe First Amendment to the United States Constitution gives protection to written fiction, although the legal presumption that it does not protect obscene literature has never been overcome. (Instead, pornography has successfully been defined legally as non-obscene, or \"obscene\" been shown to be so vague a term as to be unenforceable.) In 1998 Brian Dalton was charged with creation and possession of child pornography under an Ohio obscenity law. The stories were works of fiction concerning sexually abusing children which he wrote and kept, unpublished, in his private journal. He accepted a plea bargain, pleaded guilty and was convicted. Five years later, the conviction was vacated.\n\nImporting books and texts across national borders can sometimes be subject to more stringent laws than in the nations concerned. Customs officers are often permitted to seize even merely 'indecent' works that would be perfectly legal to sell and possess once one is inside the nations concerned. Canada has been particularly notorious for such border seizures.\n\nAlthough the 1857 and 1959 legislation outlawed the publication, retail and trafficking of certain writings and images, regarded as pornographic, and would order the destruction of shop and warehouse stock meant for sale, the private possession of and viewing of pornography has not been prosecuted until recent times. In some nations, even purely textual erotic literature is still deemed illegal and is also prosecuted.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459305", "title": "Flag of Samoa", "text": "Flag of Samoa\n\nThe flag of Samoa was first adopted from February 24, 1949 for UN Trusteeships, and continuously applied for the state's independence on January 1, 1962. It consists of a red field with a blue rectangle in the canton. The blue rectangle bears the constellation Southern Cross: four large white stars and one smaller star.\n\nPrior to the First World War, Samoa was a colony of the German Empire. German colonies used the flag of the Imperial Colonial Office, a black-white-red tricolour defaced with the Imperial Eagle. The Imperial German government intended to introduce specific flags for the colonies (also based on the tricolour) and several proposals were created, but the war and the subsequent loss of all overseas territories prevented their official adoption. New Zealand occupied German Samoa in 1914 and officially gained control of the territory in 1919.\n\nFrom the capture by New Zealand forces on August 29, 1914, a defaced ensign with three palm trees encircled, and emblazoned on the fly were used. The defaced Blue Ensign was used by vessels owned by the mandate government, or those operated in the government service, while the defaced Red Ensign was used by locally registered civilian ships. \n"}
{"id": "25175288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25175288", "title": "Genetically modified fish", "text": "Genetically modified fish\n\nGenetically modified fish (GM fish) are organisms from the taxonomic clade which includes the classes Agnatha (jawless fish), Chondrichthyes (cartilaginous fish) and Osteichthyes (bony fish) whose genetic material (DNA) has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. In most cases, the aim is to introduce a new trait to the fish which does not occur naturally in the species, i.e. transgenesis.\n\nGM fish are used in scientific research and kept as pets. They are being developed as environmental pollutant sentinels and for use in aquaculture food production. In 2015, the AquAdvantage salmon was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for commercial production, sale and consumption, making it the first genetically modified animal to be approved for human consumption. Some GM fish that have been created have promoters driving an over-production of \"all fish\" growth hormone. This results in dramatic growth enhancement in several species, including salmonids, carps and tilapias.\n\nCritics have objected to GM fish on several grounds, including ecological concerns, animal welfare concerns and with respect to whether using them as food is safe and whether GM fish are needed to help address the world's food needs.\n\nThe first transgenic fish were produced in China in 1985. As of 2013, approximately 50 species of fish have been subject to genetic modification. This has resulted in more than 400 fish/trait combinations. Most of the modifications have been conducted on food species, such as Atlantic salmon (\"Salmo salar\"), tilapia (genus) and common carp (\"Cyprinus carpio\").\n\nGenerally, genetic modification entails manipulation of DNA. The process is known as cisgenesis when a gene is transferred between organisms that could be conventionally bred, or transgenesis when a gene from one species is added to a different species. Gene transfer into the genome of the desired organism, as for fish in this case, requires a vector like a lentivirus or mechanical/physical insertion of the altered genes into the nucleus of the host by means of a micro syringe or a gene gun.\n\nTransgenic fish are used in research covering five broad areas - \n\nMost GM fish are used in basic research in genetics and development. Two species of fish, zebrafish and medaka, are most commonly modified because they have optically clear chorions (shells), develop rapidly, the 1-cell embryo is easy to see and micro-inject with transgenic DNA, and zebrafish have the capability of regenerating their organ tissues. They are also used in drug discovery. GM zebrafish are being explored for benefits of unlocking human organ tissue diseases and failure mysteries. For instance, zebrafish are used to understand heart tissue repair and regeneration in efforts to study and discover cures for cardiovascular diseases.\n\nTransgenic rainbow trout (\"Oncorhynchus mykiss\") have been developed to study muscle development. The introduced transgene causes green fluorescence to appear in fast twitch muscle fibres early in development which persist throughout life. It has been suggested the fish might be used as indicators of aquatic pollutants or other factors which influence development.\n\nIn intensive fish farming, the fish are kept at high stocking densities. This means they suffer from frequent transmission of contagious diseases, a problem which is being addressed by GM research. Grass carp (\"Ctenopharyngodon idella\") have been modified with a transgene coding for human lactoferrin, which doubles their survival rate relative to control fish after exposure to \"Aeromonas\" bacteria and Grass carp hemorrhage virus. Cecropin has been used in channel catfish to enhance their protection against several pathogenic bacteria by 2–4 times.\n\nGloFish is a patented technology which allows GM fish (tetra, barb, zebrafish) to express jellyfish and sea coral proteins giving the fish bright red, green or orange fluorescent colors when viewed in ultraviolet light. Although the fish were originally created and patented for scientific research at the National University of Singapore, a Texas company, Yorktown Technologies, obtained rights to market the fish as pets. They became the first genetically modified animal to become publicly available as a pet when introduced for sale in 2003. They were quickly banned for sale in California, however they are now on shelves once again in this state. As of 2013, Glofish are only sold in the US.\n\nOther transgenic lines of pet fish include Medaka which remain transparent throughout their lives and pink body color transgenic angelfish (\"Pterophyllum scalare\") and lionhead fish expressing the Acropora coral (\"Acroporo millepora\") red fluorescent protein.\n\nThe ocean pout type III antifreeze protein transgene has been successfully micro-injected and expressed in goldfish. The transgenic goldfish showed higher cold tolerance compared with controls.\n\nOne area of intensive research with GM fish has aimed to increase food production by modifying the expression of growth hormone (GH). The relative increases in growth differ between species. They range from a doubling in weight, to some fish that are almost 100 times heavier than the wild-type at a comparable age. This research area has resulted in dramatic growth enhancement in several species, including salmon, trout and tilapia. Other sources indicate an 11-fold and 30-fold increase in growth of salmon and mud loach, respectively, compared to wild-type fish. Transgenic fish development has reached the stage where several species are ready to be marketed in different countries, for example, GM tilapia in Cuba, GM carp in the People’s Republic of China, and GM salmon in the USA and Canada. In 2014, it was reported that applications for the approval of transgenic fish as food had been made in Canada, China, Cuba and the United States.\n\nOver-production of GH from the pituitary gland increases growth rate mainly by an increase in food consumption by the fish, but also by a 10 to 15% increase in feed conversion efficiency.\n\nAnother approach to increasing meat production in GM fish is \"double muscling\". This results in a phenotype similar to that of Belgian Blue cattle in rainbow trout. It is achieved by using transgenes expressing follistatin, which inhibits myostatin, and the development of two muscle layers.\n\nIn November 2015, the FDA of the USA approved the GM AquAdvantage salmon created by AquaBounty for commercial production, sale and consumption. It is the first genetically modified animal to be approved for human consumption. The fish is essentially an Atlantic salmon with a single gene complex inserted: a growth hormone regulating gene from a Chinook salmon with a promoter sequence from an ocean pout. This permits the GM salmon to produce GH year round rather than pausing for part of the year as do wild-type Atlantic salmon. The wild-type salmon takes 24 to 30 months to reach market size (4–6 kg) whereas the producers of the GM salmon claim it requires only 18 months for the GM fish to achieve this. AquaBounty argue that their GM salmon can be grown nearer to end-markets with greater efficiency (they require 25% less feed to achieve market weight) than the Atlantic salmon which are currently reared in remote coastal fish farms, thereby making it better for the environment, with recycled waste and lower transport costs.\n\nIt has been claimed that to prevent the genetically modified fish inadvertently breeding with wild salmon, all the fish will be female and reproductively sterile. However, it has also been claimed that a small percentage of the females will remain fertile. Some opponents of the GM salmon have dubbed it the \"Frankenfish\". Approval of the AquAdvantage fish by the FDA was opposed by a consortium of more than 20 anti-GM organisations.\n\nSeveral research groups have been developing GM zebrafish to detect aquatic pollution. The laboratory that developed the GloFish originally intended them to change color in the presence of pollutants, as environmental sentinels. Teams at the University of Cincinnati and Tulane University have been developing GM fish for the same purpose.\n\nSeveral transgenic methods have been used to introduce target DNA into zebrafish for environmental monitoring, including micro-injection, electroporation, particle gun bombardment, liposome-mediated gene transfer, and sperm-mediated gene transfer. Micro-injection is the most commonly used method to produce transgenic zebrafish as this produces the highest survival rate.\n\nThe regulation of genetic engineering concerns the approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the risks associated with the development and release of genetically modified crops. There are differences in the regulation of GMOs between countries, with some of the most marked differences occurring between the USA and Europe. Regulation varies in a given country depending on the intended use of the products of the genetic engineering. For example, a fish not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety.\n\nThe US FDA guidelines for evaluating transgenic animals define transgenic constructs as \"drugs\" regulated under the animal drug provisions of the Federal Food and Cosmetic Act. This classification is important for several reasons, including that it places all GM food animal permits under the jurisdiction of the FDA’s Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) and imposes limits on what information the FDA can release to the public, and furthermore, it avoids a more open food safety review process.\n\nThe US states of Washington and Maine have imposed permanent bans on the production of transgenic fish.\n\nCritics have objected to use of genetic engineering per se on several grounds, including ethical concerns, ecological concerns (especially about gene flow), and economic concerns raised by the fact GM techniques and GM organisms are subject to intellectual property law. GMOs also are involved in controversies over GM food with respect to whether using GM fish as safe is safe, whether it would exacerbate or cause fish allergies, whether it should be labeled, and whether GM fish and crops are needed to address the world's food needs. These controversies have led to litigation, international trade disputes, and protests, and to restrictive regulation of commercial products in most countries.\n\nThere is much doubt among the public about genetically modified animals in general. It is believed that the acceptance of GM fish by the general public is the lowest of all GM animals used for food and pharmaceuticals.\n\nIn transgenic fast-growing fish genetically modified for growth hormone, the mosaic founder fish vary greatly in their growth rate, reflecting the highly variable proportion and distribution of transgenic cells in their bodies. Fish with these high growth rates (and their progeny) sometimes develop a morphological abnormality similar to acromegaly in humans, exhibiting an enlarged head relative to the body and a bulging operculum. This becomes progressively worse as the fish ages. It can interfere with feeding and may ultimately cause death. According to a study commissioned by Compassion in World Farming, the abnormalities are probably a direct consequence of growth hormone over-expression and have been reported in GM coho salmon, rainbow trout, common carp, channel catfish and loach, but to a lesser extent in Nile tilapia.\n\nIn GM coho salmon (\"Oncorhynchus kisutch\") there are morphological changes and changed allometry that lead to reduced swimming abilities. They also exhibit abnormal behaviour such as increased levels of activity with respect to feed-intake and swimming. Several other transgenic fish show decreased swimming ability, likely due to body shape and muscle structure.\n\nGenetically modified triploid fish are more susceptible to temperature stress, have a higher incidence of deformities\n(e.g. abnormalities in the eye and lower jaw), and are less aggressive than diploids. Other welfare concerns of GM fish include increased stress under oxygen-deprived conditions caused by increased need for oxygen. It has been shown that deaths due to low levels of oxygen (hypoxia) in coho salmon are most pronounced in transgenics. It has been suggested the increased sensitivity to hypoxia is caused by the insertion of the extra set of chromosomes requiring a larger nucleus which thereby causes a larger cell overall and a reduction in the surface area to volume ratio of the cell.\n\nTransgenic fish are usually developed in strains of near-wild origin. These have an excellent capacity for interbreeding with themselves or wild relatives and therefore possess a significant possibility for establishing themselves in nature should they escape biotic or abiotic containment measures.\n\nA wide range of concerns about the consequences of genetically modified fish escaping have been expressed. For polyploids, these include the degree of sterility, interference with spawning, competing with resources without contributing to subsequent generations. For transgenics, the concerns include characteristics of the genotype, the function of the gene, the type of the gene, potential for causing pleiotropic effects, potential for interacting with the remainder of the genome, stability of the construct, ability of the DNA construct to transpose within or between genomes.\n\nOne study, using relevant life history data from the Japanese medaka (\"Oryzias latipes\") predicts that a transgene introduced into a natural population by a small number of transgenic fish will spread as a result of enhanced mating advantage, but the reduced viability of offspring will cause eventual local extinction of both populations. GM coho salmon show greater risk-taking behaviour and better use of limited food than wild-type fish.\nTransgenic coho salmon have enhanced feeding capacity and growth, which can result in a considerably larger body size (>7-fold) compared to non-transgenic salmon. When transgenic and non-transgenic salmon in the same enclosure compete for different levels of food, transgenic individuals consistently outgrow non-transgenic individuals. When food abundance is low, dominant individuals emerge, invariably transgenic, that show strong agonistic and cannibalistic behavior to cohorts and dominate the acquisition of limited food resources. When food availability is low, all groups containing transgenic salmon experience population crashes or complete extinctions, whereas groups containing only non-transgenic salmon have good (72%) survival rates. This has led to the suggestion that these GM fish will survive better than the wild-type when conditions are very poor.\n\nSuccessful artificial transgenic hybridization between two species of loach (genus \"Misgurnus\") has been reported, yet these species are not known to hybridize naturally.\n\nGloFish were not considered as an environmental threat because they were less fit than normal zebrafish which are unable to establish themselves in the wild in the US.\n\nThe FDA has said the AquAdvantage Salmon can be safely contained in land-based tanks with little risk of escape into the wild, however, Joe Perry, former chair of the GM panel of the European Food Safety Authority, has been quoted as saying “There remain legitimate ecological concerns over the possible consequences if these GM salmon escape to the wild and reproduce, despite FDA assurances over containment and sterility, neither of which can be guaranteed”.\n\nAquaBounty indicates their GM salmon can not interbreed with wild fish because they are triploid which makes them sterile. The possibility of fertile triploids is one of the major short-falls of triploidy being used as a means of bio-containment for transgenic fish. However, it is estimated that 1.1% of eggs remain diploid, and therefore capable of breeding, despite the triploidy process. Others have claimed the sterility process has a failure rate of 5%. Large scale trials using normal pressure, high pressure, or high pressure plus aged eggs for transgenic coho salmon, give triploidy frequencies of only 99.8%, 97.6%, and 97.0%, respectively. AquaBounty also emphasizes that their GM salmon would not survive wild conditions due to the geographical locations where their research is conducted, as well as the locations of their farms.\n\nThe GH transgene can be transmitted via hybridization of GM AquAdvantage Salmon and the closely related wild brown trout (\"Salmo trutta\"). Transgenic hybrids are viable and grow more rapidly than transgenic salmon and other wild-type crosses in conditions emulating a hatchery. In stream mesocosms designed to simulate natural conditions, transgenic hybrids express competitive dominance and suppress the growth of transgenic and non-transgenic salmon by 82% and 54%, respectively. Natural levels of hybidization between these two species can be as high as 41%. Researchers examining this possibility concluded \"Ultimately, we suggest that hybridization of transgenic fishes with closely related species represents potential ecological risks for wild populations and a possible route for introgression of a transgene, however low the likelihood, into a new species in nature.\"\n\nAn article in Slate Magazine in December 2012 by Jon Entine, Director of the Genetic Literacy Project, criticized the Obama Administration for preventing the publication of the environmental assessment (EA) of the AquAdvantage Salmon, which was completed in April 2012 and which concluded that \"the salmon is safe to eat and poses no serious environmental hazards.\" The Slate article said that the publication of the report was stopped \"after meetings with the White House, which was debating the political implications of approving the GM salmon, a move likely to infuriate a portion of its base\". Within days of the article's publication and less than two months after the election, the FDA released the draft EA and opened the comment period.\n"}
{"id": "52144995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52144995", "title": "Globe of Matelica", "text": "Globe of Matelica\n\nThe Globe of Matelica (Globo of Matelica) is an ancient Roman sundial sculpted on a marble ball. The artifact was found during the 1985 reconstruction of the medieval Palazzo Pretorio, presently Museo Civico Archeologico, of Matelica in the region of Marche, Italy.\n\nThe globe measures nearly 29 cm in diameter an appears to be sculpted from a cristalline marble originating near Ephesus in present-day Turkey. It is thought to date from the first two centuries CE. There is one similar item, identified in 1939 by Carl William Blegen in a Museum in Nafplio, Greece.\n\nAll that remains is the stone component, it is engraved with a variety or lines and letter sare inscribed. The sphere is bisected by a center line while on its top are three concentric circles of various diameters, intersected by an arc of a circle and on which words in ancient Greek alphabet are still visible, and 13 holes, each marked by a Greek letter. In these holes were probably metallic insertions that delineated the hour.\n\nIn the lower part there is a large conical depression which ends with a big rectangular hole maybe made to secure the base. Other theories for the sphere are that it was used for astronomical calculations, thus as an armillary sphere or for use in spherical astronomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "5362648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5362648", "title": "God in Abrahamic religions", "text": "God in Abrahamic religions\n\nJudaism, Christianity, and Islam are sometimes called Abrahamic religions because they all accept the tradition of a god, Yahweh, that revealed himself to the prophet Abraham. The theological traditions of all Abrahamic religions are thus to some extent influenced by the depiction of the God of Israel in the Hebrew Bible, and the historical development of monotheism in the history of Judaism.\n\nThe Abrahamic God in this sense is the conception of God that remains a common attribute of all three traditions. God is conceived of as eternal, omnipotent, omniscient and as the creator of the universe. God is further held to have the properties of holiness, justice, omni-benevolence and omnipresence. Proponents of Abrahamic faiths believe that God is also transcendent, meaning that he is outside space and outside time and therefore not subject to anything within his creation, but at the same time a personal God, involved, listening to prayer and reacting to the actions of his creatures.\n\nThe Bahá'í writings describe a monotheistic, personal, inaccessible, omniscient, omnipresent, imperishable, and almighty God who is the creator of all things in the universe. The existence of God and the universe is thought to be eternal, without a beginning or end.\n\nThough transcendent and inaccessible directly, God is nevertheless seen as conscious of creation, with a will and purpose that is expressed through messengers termed Manifestations of God. The purpose of creation is for the created to have the capacity to know and love its creator, through such methods as prayer, reflection, and being of service to humankind. God communicates his will and purpose to humanity through intermediaries, known as Manifestations of God, who are the prophets and messengers who have founded religions from prehistoric times up to the present day.\n\nThe Manifestations of God reflect divine attributes, which are creations of God made for the purpose of spiritual enlightenment, onto the physical plane of existence. In the Bahá'í view, all physical beings reflect at least one of these attributes, and the human soul can potentially reflect all of them. The Bahá'í view rejects all pantheistic, anthropomorphic, and incarnationist beliefs in God.\n\nChristianity originated within the realm of Second Temple Judaism and thus shares most of its beliefs about God, including his omnipotence, omniscience, his role as creator of all things, his personality, Immanence, transcendence and ultimate unity and supremacy, with the innovation that Jesus of Nazareth is considered to be in one way or another, the fulfillment of ancient prophecy or the completion of the Law of the prophets of Israel.\n\nMost Christian denominations believe Jesus to be the incarnation of God as a human being, which is the main theological divergence with respect to Judaism and Islam. Although personal salvation is implicitly stated in Judaism, personal salvation by grace and a recurring emphasis in right beliefs is particularly emphasized in Christianity, often contrasting this with a perceived over-emphasis in law observance as stated in canon Jewish law, where it is contended that a belief in an intermediary between man and God is against the Noahide laws, and thus not monotheistic.\n\nFor most Christians, beliefs about God are enshrined in the doctrine of Trinitarianism, which holds that the three persons of the trinity are distinct but all of the same indivisible essence, meaning that the Father is God, the Holy spirit is God and the Son is God yet there is one God as there is one indivisible essence. The doctrines were largely formalized at the Council of Nicaea and are enshrined in the Nicene creed.\nThe Trinitarian view emphasizes that God has a will, and that God the Son has two wills, divine and human, though these are never in conflict but joined in the hypostatic union. \n\nA small minority of Christians, largely coming under the heading of Unitarianism, hold non-trinitarian views.\n\nIn the Mormonism represented by most of Mormon communities (including The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints), \"God\" means Elohim (the Father), whereas \"Godhead\" means a council of three distinct gods; Elohim, Jehovah (the Son, or Jesus), and the Holy Spirit. The Father and Son have perfected, material bodies, while the Holy Spirit is a spirit and does not have a body. This conception differs from the traditional Christian Trinity; in Mormonism, the three persons are considered to be physically separate beings, or personages, but united in will and purpose. As such, the term \"Godhead\" differs from how it is used in traditional Christianity. This description of God represents the orthodoxy of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), established early in the 19th century.\n\nIn Islam, God is believed to be the only real supreme being, all-powerful and all-knowing creator, sustainer, ordainer, and judge of the universe. Islam puts a heavy emphasis on the conceptualization of God as strictly singular (\"tawhid\"). He is unique (\"wahid\") and inherently one (\"ahad\"), all-merciful and omnipotent. According to the Qur'an there are 99 Names of God (\"al-asma al-husna\" lit. meaning: \"The best names\") each of which evoke a distinct characteristic of God. All these names refer to Allah, the supreme and all-comprehensive divine Arabic name. Among the 99 names of God, the most famous and most frequent of these names are \"the Most Gracious\" (\"al-rahim\") and \"the Most Merciful\" (\"al-rahman\").\n\nCreation and ordering of the universe is seen as an act of prime mercy for which all creatures sing his glories and bear witness to his unity and lordship. According to the Qur'an, \"No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision. He is above all comprehension, yet is acquainted with all things\" (Qur'an 6:103).\n\nGod in Islam is not only majestic and sovereign, but also a personal god. According to the Qur'an, he is nearer to a person than that person's jugular vein. He responds to those in need or distress whenever they call him. Above all, he guides humanity to the right way, the \"straight path\".\n\nIslam teaches that God is the same god worshipped by the members of other Abrahamic religions such as Christianity and Judaism (). This is not universally accepted by non-Muslims, as Islam denies the divinity of Jesus Christ as a son of God, Islam views that God does not have any offspring or descendants, he created all things including prophets such as Jesus Christ. Most Muslims today believe that the religion of Abraham (which now split into Judaism, Christianity, and Islam) are of one source, which is The Almighty God.\n\nJudaism, the oldest Abrahamic religion, is based on a strict monotheism, finding its origins in the sole veneration of the ancient predecessor to the Abrahamic God, Yahweh. The idea of God as a duality or trinity is heretical in Judaism - it is considered akin to polytheism. \"[God], the Cause of all, is one. This does not mean one as in one of series, nor one like a species (which encompasses many individuals), nor one as in an object that is made up of many elements, nor as a single simple object that is infinitely divisible. Rather, God is a unity unlike any other possible unity\". This is referred to in the Torah: \"Hear Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is One\".\n\nGod is conceived of as eternal, the creator of the universe, and the source of morality. God has the power to intervene in the world. The term God thus corresponds to an actual ontological reality, and is not merely a projection of the human psyche. Maimonides describes God in this fashion: \"The foundation of all foundations and the pillar of wisdom is to know that there is a Primary Being who brought into being all existence. All the beings of the heavens, the earth, and what is between them came into existence only from the truth of His being.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5146638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5146638", "title": "Goshūi Wakashū", "text": "Goshūi Wakashū\n\nThe , sometimes abbreviated as Goshūishū, is an imperial anthology of Japanese waka compiled in 1086 at the behest of Emperor Shirakawa (who had ordered it begun in 1075). It was compiled by the conservative Fujiwara no Michitoshi (1047-1099), who wrote its preface. It consists of twenty volumes containing 1,220 poems. It is noted for a comparatively large contingent of poems written by women.\n\nIts name \"Later Collection\" comes from the fact that it succeeds the \"Shūi Wakashū\" (\"Collection of Gleanings\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1861353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861353", "title": "Humbug", "text": "Humbug\n\nA humbug is a person or object that behaves in a deceptive or dishonest way, often as a hoax or in jest. The term was first described in 1751 as student slang, and recorded in 1840 as a \"nautical phrase\". It is now also often used as an exclamation to mean nonsense or gibberish.\n\nWhen referring to a person, a humbug means a fraud or impostor, implying an element of unjustified publicity and spectacle. In modern usage, the word is most associated with the character Ebenezer Scrooge, created by Charles Dickens in his novella \"A Christmas Carol\". His famous reference to Christmas, \"Bah! Humbug!\", declaring Christmas to be a fraud, is commonly used in stage and television versions and also appeared frequently in the original book. The word is also prominently used in \"The Wizard of Oz\", in which the Scarecrow refers to the Wizard as a humbug, and the Wizard agrees.\n\nAnother use of the word was by John Collins Warren, a Harvard Medical School professor who worked at Massachusetts General Hospital. Dr. Warren performed the first public operation with the use of ether anesthesia, administered by William Thomas Green Morton, a dentist. To the stunned audience at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Warren declared, \"Gentlemen, this is no humbug.\"\n\nThe oldest known written uses of the word are in the book \"The Student\" (1750–1751), ii. 41, where it is called \"a word very much in vogue with the people of taste and fashion\", and in Ferdinando Killigrew's \"The Universal Jester\", subtitled \"a choice collection of many conceits ... bon-mots and humbugs\" from 1754; as mentioned in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" from 1911, which further refers to the \"New English Dictionary\".\n\nThere are many theories as to the origin of the term, none of which has been proven:\n\nThe word has been used outside of anglophone countries for well over a century. For instance, in Germany it has been known since the 1830s, in Sweden since at least 1862, in France since at least 1875, in Hungary, and in Finland.\n"}
{"id": "24047688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24047688", "title": "Irish Professional Photographers Association", "text": "Irish Professional Photographers Association\n\nThe Irish Professional Photographers Association is a non-profit association for professional photographers. In spite of the name, membership is not limited to Ireland.\n\nit was founded in 1949. It currently has over 350 members.\n\nthe organization is a member of the Federation of European Professional Photographers and the World Council of Professional Photographers.\n\nIPPA Management Council\n\nPresident: Brendan Lyon, LIPPA\n\nRegional Chairpersons\nNorth & West:Kelvin Gillmor, AIPPA\nSouth:Claire O'Rorke LIPPA\nEast:Dermot Byrne, AIPPA\n\nCouncil Members:\nCorin Bishop, AIPPA\nMichael McLaughlin, AIPPA\nJohn Ryan, AIPPA\nPeter Gordon, AIPPA\nNeil Warner, FIPPA\nTom Doherty, FIPPA\n\n\n\nThe Irish Professional Photographers Association (IPPA) is the network for qualified professional photographers throughout Ireland. It organises \"National Portrait Day\" in March/April each year.\n\nSince it first launched in 2006, National Portrait Day has raised almost €500,000 for its chosen charities.\n\nEach year, the IPPA have harnessed the goodwill and the photographic skills of its members for the benefit of Irish charities, and they have selected ISPCC as their charity of the year for 2014.\n\nYou can have your picture taken at your local qualified IPPA photographer's studio or event location for a €25 donation.\n\n"}
{"id": "16533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16533", "title": "Joual", "text": "Joual\n\nJoual () is the common name for the linguistic features of basilectal Quebec French that are associated with the French-speaking working class in Montreal which has become a symbol of national identity for a large number of artists from that area. Speakers of Quebec French from outside Montreal usually have other names to identify their speech, such as Magoua in Trois-Rivières, and Chaouin south of Trois-Rivières. Linguists tend to eschew this term, but historically some have reserved the term \"joual\" for the variant of Quebec French spoken in Montreal.\n\nLike most regional and class variants of a widely spoken language, \"joual\" is stigmatized by some and celebrated by others. While \"joual\" is often considered a sociolect of the Québécois working class, that perception is outdated. Both the upward socio-economic mobility among the Québécois, and a cultural renaissance around \"joual\" connected to the Quiet Revolution in the Montreal East-End have resulted in \"joual\" being spoken by people across the educational and economic spectrum. Today, many Québécois who were raised in Quebec during the 20th century (command of English notwithstanding) can understand and speak at least some \"joual\".\n\nThe language levels of the population are diverse today, particularly following the adoption of Bill 101. However, slang and other basilectal varieties of Quebec French are still very present in Quebec culture. This phenomenon occurs through music, storytelling, television, radio, in movies and in conversations.\n\nAlthough coinage of the name \"joual\" is often attributed to French-Canadian journalist André Laurendeau, usage of this term throughout French-speaking Canada predates the 1930s.\n\nThe actual word \"joual\" is the representation of how the word \"cheval\" (Standard French: , \"horse\") is pronounced by those who speak \"joual\". The weak schwa vowel disappeared. Then the voiceless was voiced to , thereby creating . Next, the at the beginning of a syllable in some regional dialects of French or even in very rapid speech in general weakens to become the semi-vowel written . The end result is the word transcribed as \"joual\".\n\nDiphthongs are normally present where long vowels would be present in standard French. There is also \"sontaient, sonté\" (\"ils étaient, ils ont été\").\n\nAlthough \"moé\" and \"toé\" are today considered substandard slang pronunciations of \"toi\" and \"moi\", these were the pronunciations of \"ancien régime\" French used in all provinces of Northern France—by the royalty, aristocracy and common people. After the 1789 French Revolution, the standard pronunciation in France changed to that of a previously-stigmatized form in the speech of Paris, but Quebec French continued to evolve from the historically older dialects, having become isolated from France following the 1760 British conquest of New France.\n\n\"Joual\" shares many features with modern Oïl languages, such as Norman, Gallo, Picard, Poitevin and Saintongeais though its affinities are greatest with the 17th century koiné of Paris. Speakers of these languages of France predominated among settlers to New France. Their usage varies.\nIt could easily be argued that at least some aspects of more modern \"joual\" are further linguistic contractions of standard French. D'la, for instance (de la), whereas the word de has nearly fallen out of usage over time and has become contracted. This argument does apply to other words and this concept permeates universally throughout the French language.\n\nAnother outstanding characteristic of \"Joual\" is the use of profanity called sacre in everyday speech.\n\nThere are a number of English loanwords in \"joual\", although they have been stigmatized since the 1960s: Their usage varies both regionally and historically.\n\nSome words were also previously thought to be of English origin, although modern research has shown them to be from regional French dialects:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28870364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28870364", "title": "L. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky", "text": "L. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky\n\nL. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky was a critical essay written by Dmitry Merezhkovsky and published between 1900-1901 in \"Mir iskusstva\" magazine. The publication coincided with Leo Tolstoy's excommunication by Most Holy Synod and drew a wide public response. \"L. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky\" is considered the most significant work of Merezhkovsky in the genre of literary research essays. \n\nThe work was partly devoted to the history of Russian literature and partly to the views of Dmitry Merezhkovsky. An ideological basis of the essay is the dilemma of Christianity and paganism. Alexander Men noted that Tolstoy was described as a pagan here (\"seer of flesh\"), while Fyodor Dostoyevsky opposed him as a \"seer of spirit\".\n\nThe Merezhkovsky's study on the works of Leo Tolstoy was subsequently recognized as the most detailed and accurate.\n"}
{"id": "14984069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984069", "title": "Lath art", "text": "Lath art\n\nLath art is a form of woodworking folk art for making rustic pictures out of strips out of old \"lath\" from \"plaster and lath\" walls. Today it is commonly made from lattice, lumber stickers and weathered lobster traps. Beach scenes and rural scenes are the most popular themes. \n\nLath art has a lot in common with marquetry and intarsia. They are all woodworking hobbies to make pictures out of sections of wood, but marquetry and intarsia use the wood grain as a design element, and lath art uses the direction of the lath stick and the colors of the stains as a design element.\n\n"}
{"id": "6711618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6711618", "title": "List of Australian mammal emblems", "text": "List of Australian mammal emblems\n\nThis is a list of Australian mammal emblems.\n\n"}
{"id": "59131452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59131452", "title": "Logeion", "text": "Logeion\n\nLogeion is an open-access database of Latin and Ancient Greek dictionaries. Developed by Josh Goldenberg and Matt Shanahan in 2011, it is hosted by the University of Chicago. Apart from simultaneous search capabilities across different dictionaries and reference works, Logeion offers access to frequency and collocation data from the Perseus Project.\n\nHaving started out as an aggregator for Latin and Ancient Greek dictionaries, Logeion has implemented multiple new features in its development. These include:\n\nFurthermore, an iOS app was developed by Joshua Day in 2013. The app's second version, launched in 2018, is also available for Android devices.\n\nAs of November 2018, Logeion contains the following dictionaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "473177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473177", "title": "Mamihlapinatapai", "text": "Mamihlapinatapai\n\nThe word Mamihlapinatapai is derived from the Yaghan language of Tierra del Fuego, listed in \"The Guinness Book of World Records\" as the \"most succinct word\", and is considered one of the hardest words to translate. It allegedly refers to \"a look shared by two people, each wishing that the other would initiate something that they both desire but which neither wants to begin.\" \n\nA slightly different interpretation of the meaning also exists: \"It is that look across the table when two people are sharing an unspoken but private moment. When each knows the other understands and is in agreement with what is being expressed. An expressive and meaningful silence.\" It is also cited in books and articles on game theory associated with the volunteer's dilemma.\n\nIt is also referenced in \"Defining the World\" in a discussion of the difficulties facing Samuel Johnson in trying to arrive at succinct, yet accurate, definitions of words. It is also referenced in the documentary film \"Life in a Day\" (2011), in response to the question \"what do you love?\".\n\nThe word consists of the reflexive/passive prefix \"ma-\" (\"mam-\" before a vowel), the root \"ihlapi\" (pronounced ), which means \"to be at a loss as what to do next\", the stative suffix \"-n\", an achievement suffix \"-ata,\" and the dual suffix \"-apai\", which in composition with the reflexive \"mam-\" has a reciprocal sense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59119531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59119531", "title": "Mathematical modelling competition", "text": "Mathematical modelling competition\n\nMathematical modelling competitions are team competitions for students that aim to promote mathematical modelling to solve problems of real-world importance. Several types of math contests exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "46246817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46246817", "title": "Matrix (protocol)", "text": "Matrix (protocol)\n\nMatrix is an open protocol for real-time communication. It is designed to allow users with accounts at one communications service provider to communicate with users of a different service provider via online chat, Voice over IP, and Videotelephony. That is, it aims to make real-time communication work seamlessly between different service providers, just like standard Simple Mail Transfer Protocol email does now for store-and-forward email service.\n\nFrom a technical perspective, it is an application layer communication protocol for federated real-time communication. It provides HTTP APIs and open source reference implementations for securely distributing and persisting messages in JSON format over an open federation of servers. It can integrate with standard web services via WebRTC, facilitating browser-to-browser applications.\n\nOther attempts at defining an open instant messaging or multimedia signalling protocol of this type had difficulties becoming widely adopted—e.g. XMPP and IRCv3—and have highlighted the challenges involved, both technological and political. It is unclear if there is enough demand among users for services which interoperate among providers.\n\nThe initial project was created inside Amdocs, while building a chat tool called \"Amdocs Unified Communications\", by Matthew Hodgson and Amandine Le Pape. Amdocs then funded most of the development work from 2014 - October 2017. In 2015 a subsidiary of Amdocs was created, named \"Vector Creations Limited\", and the Matrix Staff was moved there. \n\nMatrix was the winner of the Innovation award at WebRTC 2014 Conference & Expo, and of the \"Best in Show\" award at WebRTC World in 2015.\n\nIn July 2017 the funding by Amdocs was announced to be cut and in the following weeks the core team created their own UK-based company, \"New Vector\", which was mainly build to support Matrix and Riot development. During this time period, there were multiple calls for support to the community and companies that build on Matrix, to help pay for the wages of at least part of the core team. Patreon and Liberapay crowdfunding accounts were created, and the core team started a video podcast, called Matrix \"Live\" to keep the contributors up to speed with ongoing developments. This was expanded by a weekly blog format, called \"This Week in Matrix\", where interested community members could read, or submit their own, Matrix-related news. \n\nThe company was created with the goal of offering consultancy services for Matrix and paid hosting of Matrix servers (as a platform called modular.im) to generate income. \n\nIn the early weeks after its creation, there the Matrix team and the company Purism published plans to collaborate in the creation of the Librem 5 phone. The Librem 5 was intended to be a Matrix native phone, where the default pre-installed messaging and caller app should use Matrix for audio and video calls and instant messaging. \n\nIn late January 2018 the company received a investment of US$ 5 million from status, a  Ethereum based startup. \n\nIn April 2018 the French Government announced plans to create their own instant messaging tool, which was later confirmed, by the Matrix team, to be based on Riot and Matrix. New Vector is said to provide some support to the government in this endeavour.\n\nIn October 2018 a private company limited by guarantee called \"the Matrix.org foundation\" was incorporated, to serve as a neutral legal entity for further development of the standard.\n\nMatrix targets use cases like Voice over IP, Internet of Things and instant messaging, including group communication, along with a longer-term goal to be a generic messaging and data synchronization system for the web. The protocol supports security and replication, maintaining full conversation history, with no single points of control or failure. Existing communication services can integrate with the Matrix ecosystem.\n\nClient software is available for open-federated Instant Messaging (IM), Voice over IP (VoIP) and Internet of Things (IoT) communication.\n\nThe Matrix standard specifies RESTful HTTP APIs for securely transmitting and replicating JSON data between Matrix-capable clients, servers and services. Clients send data by PUTing it to a ‘room’ on their server, which then replicates the data over all the Matrix servers participating in this ‘room’. This data is signed using a git-style signature to mitigate tampering, and the federated traffic is encrypted with HTTPS and signed with each server’s private key to avoid spoofing. Replication follows eventual consistency semantics, allowing servers to function even if offline or after data-loss by re-synchronizing missing history from other participating servers.\n\nThe Olm library provides for optional end-to-end encryption on a room-by-room basis via a Double Ratchet Algorithm implementation. It can ensure that conversation data at rest is only readable by the room participants. With it configured, data transmitted over Matrix is only visible as ciphertext to the Matrix servers, and can be decrypted only by authorized participants in the room. The Olm and Megolm (an expansion of Olm to better suit the need for bigger rooms) libraries have been subject of a cryptographic review by NCC Group, whose findings are publicly available, and have been addressed by the Matrix team. The review was sponsored by the Open Technology Fund.\n\nMatrix does support bridging messages from different chat applications into Matrix rooms. These bridges are programs that run on the server and communicate with the non-Matrix servers. Bridges can either be acting as puppets or relays, where the in the former the individual users account is visibly posting the messages, and in the latter a bot posts the messages for non puppeteered user accounts. \n\nCurrently there are bridges for:\n\n\nBut all are at various stages of completion.\n\nRiot is the reference implementation of a client. Many other clients, bots, bridges, servers and other implementations of the Matrix protocol exist too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3078123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3078123", "title": "Microcosmos (film)", "text": "Microcosmos (film)\n\nMicrocosmos (original title \"Microcosmos : Le peuple de l'herbe\" — Microcosmos: People of the grass) is a 1996 documentary film by Claude Nuridsany and Marie Pérennou and produced by Jacques Perrin. Set to the music of Bruno Coulais, this film is primarily a record of detailed interactions between insects and other small invertebrates.\n\nThe film was screened out of competition at the 1996 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nRoger Ebert gave Microcosmos 4/4 stars, calling it \"...an amazing film that allows us to peer deeply into the insect world and marvel at creatures we casually condemn to squishing.\" Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote, \"...this quick, captivating film offers a taste of the exotic to viewers of any stripe (or spot). And it's a breathtaking reminder that Mother Nature remains the greatest special effects wizard of all.\" \n\nThe film holds a 97% rating from the consensus of 32 critics on the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, and a 91% from a collective 5,555 user reviews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20890703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20890703", "title": "Mitsouko (perfume)", "text": "Mitsouko (perfume)\n\nMitsouko is a 1919 perfume by Guerlain. Its name is derived from the French transliteration of a Japanese female personal name Mitsuko. It is a fruity chypre whose top notes include bergamot, its middle notes peach, rose, iris, clove, and jasmine, and its base notes vetiver, oakmoss, and labdanum.\n\nMitsouko was created by perfumer Jacques Guerlain in 1919. The perfume has remained continuously available ever since.\n\nMitsouko is preserved in its original 1919 formulation in the archives of the Osmothèque, donated to the collection by Thierry Wasser. It has been re-formulated several times in the modern era. It was a favorite fragrance of Charlie Chaplin, Ingrid Bergman, Jean Harlow, and Anais Nin.\n\nThere is no definitive information on the origin of the name. One account of the origin of the name is that it was inspired by the name of the heroine of Claude Farrère's novel \"La bataille\" (\"The Battle\"). The novel is set in Japan during the Russo-Japanese War, and chronicles a fictional \"amour fou\" between a British Navy Officer and one \"Mitsouko,\" the wife of Fleet Admiral Baron Tōgō Heihachirō. Both Togo and the British officer sail to war, and Mitsouko awaits with reserve to see which of the two will return alive to her.\n\nThe other possibility is that it was inspired by the story of Mitsuko Aoyama, the mother of Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi.\n"}
{"id": "35289504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35289504", "title": "Multi-age classroom", "text": "Multi-age classroom\n\nMulti-age classrooms or composite classes are classrooms with students from more than one grade level. They are created because of a pedagogical choice of a school or school district. They are different from split classes which are formed when there are too many students for one class - but not enough to form two classes of the same grade level. Composite classes are more common in smaller schools; an extreme form is the one-room school.\n\nStudies of the performance of students in composite classes shows their academic performance is not substantially different from those in single-grade classrooms; instead, outcomes tend to be a function of the teacher's performance.\n\nFor a given number of students, composite classes allow greater administrative flexibility in allocating students to classes. This allows gender balancing, matching of student needs to teaching expertise, and balancing class sizes. By allocating children to classes according to specific learning needs, it is possible to arrange classes with narrower ranges of abilities.\n\nSchools composed exclusively of composite classes are increasingly common in Australian primary school education; they are not uncommon in New Zealand.\n\nComposite classes often meet resistance, with parents often believing that their child is disadvantaged by being in one. This perception is often regardless of whether their child would be in the younger or older cohort.\n\nAdvocates of multi-age classrooms point to the lack of age stratification in workplaces, families or other social environments as a reason to create a similar environment in the classroom.\n\nSocial benefits often cited are:\n\nEducational benefits often cited are:\n\n\nAt any one time, both composite and single-level classes have groups of students at a variety of levels. This is part of the normal delivery of the curriculum. Education expectations are set at curriculum levels which span across two years; for example, see the Victorian Essential Learning Standards. Contemporary teaching and learning materials are developed for multi-age classes. By using them, teachers can introduce core concepts to the whole classroom, and then differentiate instruction for the range of learners in the classroom.\n\nOTHER CONSIDERATIONS\n\nThe students will be of a greater range of size, age and maturity which can have both positive and negative implications particularly in class sporting activities and playground interaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "44081570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44081570", "title": "Olim L'Berlin", "text": "Olim L'Berlin\n\nOlim L'Berlin (Hebrew: עולים לברלין, lit. \"Let's Ascend to Berlin\", also known as the Milky protest) is the name of a Facebook page that coined a snowclone in 2014. Comparing the high cost of living in Israel with the comparatively cheaper economic climate in Berlin, which has a growing community of Israeli expatriates, the page urged more Israelis to move to Germany, raising a storm of protest in Israeli social and political circles. Compounding the reaction was the Facebook page's use of the same verb (\"olim\") that Jews use for aliyah (immigration to Israel).\n\nThe Facebook page based its cost-of-living comparison on the price of grocery items in Israel and Germany, among them a pudding dessert similar to the popular Israeli pudding known as Milky. The grocery bill was found to be three times higher in Israel than in Germany. The Facebook page and subsequent public debate became known as the \"Battle of the Milky\" () in Israel, or \"Milky Protest\" in international media.\n\nMilky pudding, based on a former Danone product and produced by Strauss, is one of the best-known and best-selling dessert products in Israel. The chocolate-flavored Milky was introduced in 1979, followed by the vanilla-flavored version in 1980. In 1986, a video commercial called \"Battle of the Milky\" () was released in cinemas, showing supermarket customers racing each other down the aisle to grab the last chocolate-flavored Milky off the shelf. Evoking the cottage cheese protests in Israel in 2011, the Facebook site owner chose the popular Milky pudding as a new symbol of protest against Israel's high consumer prices, calling for Israelis to emigrate to Berlin to enjoy a lower cost of living.\n\nBerlin is known as a \"cheap and shabby-chic\" city with a lower cost of living than Israel and a growing population of Israeli expatriates. It is among the cities that now attract \"the type who made Tel Aviv cool\" – young, single, and often female graduates; artists, filmmakers, musicians, and other members of the creative class. According to unofficial estimates, between 3,000 and 20,000 young Israelis and Western European Jews relocated to Berlin between 2009 and 2014; an estimated 25,000 Israelis were residents of the city in 2014.\n\nOn September 29, 2014, a Hebrew-language Facebook page called \"Olim L'Berlin\" was launched by an anonymous site owner. On October 5, the page showed a picture of a Berlin supermarket receipt for a variety of products, including bread, eggs, noodles, orange juice, and three containers of a chocolate pudding dessert. Beside it was a picture of a Milky-like chocolate pudding product topped with whipped cream. The site challenged Israelis to buy exactly the same list of groceries in Israel for less. The pudding alone cost the equivalent of 1 shekel in Germany, as opposed to 4 or 5 shekels in Israel. The equivalent grocery bill was found to be three times higher in Israel than in Germany.\n\nBesides reminding Israelis of the high cost of living in their country, the name of the Facebook page was a distortion of the Zionist ideal of aliyah, using the same verb (\"olim\") to suggest emigration to Germany instead. Finance Minister Yair Lapid called the owner of the site \"anti-Zionist\". The fact that Germany was chosen as the destination struck a raw nerve across the social and political spectrum, considering Israel's founding in 1948 in the wake of the Holocaust, its large population of Holocaust survivors, and the many citizens who still refuse to buy products made in Germany. \"Are the gas chambers in Berlin also cheaper than here?\" one visitor posted to the Facebook page. \"Israel HaYom\" branded the Facebook page as \"an insult to all Holocaust survivors\". Agriculture Minister Yair Shamir stated, \"I pity the Israelis who no longer remember the Holocaust and abandoned Israel for a pudding\".\n\nThe Facebook page garnered 13,000 likes within hours of its posting and reached 1 million hits within four days. The so-called \"Milky Protest\" was widely covered by international media. The site owner refused to reveal his identity or to be interviewed by the Israeli press; he was known only as a 25-year-old Israeli and ex-IDF officer living in Berlin.\n\nFive days after the page went live, the site owner claimed he had received 12,000 messages from Israelis and was actively advising Israelis how to emigrate. He told Channel 2 that he had petitioned German Chancellor Angela Merkel to issue 25,000 temporary visas to accommodate Israelis looking for work in Germany. From his home in Berlin, he organized an \"emigration fair\" in Rabin Square in Tel Aviv on October 14, 2014. Though 2,300 people registered on the Facebook page to attend, fewer than 100 participants showed up.\n\nOn October 14 \"The Washington Post\" revealed that the site owner was Naor Narkis, a 25-year-old former officer of the Intelligence Corps and a freelance mobile app designer living in Berlin. Narkis had first emigrated to France five months earlier, but was put off by strains of antisemitism and the high cost of living in Paris. He found much less antisemitism in Germany and a more welcoming atmosphere for Israelis there, as well as the \"cheap and cool\" factor of Berlin. He claimed that the high cost of living in Israel was \"forcing young people into exile\".\n\nOn October 26 \"The Jerusalem Post\" reported that Narkis was planning to return to Israel in a month’s time, saying that his Facebook protest had become \"less effective\" since he revealed his identity. The site will be taken down upon his return to Israel.\n\nIn a play on the original page, other \"Olim L'...\" Facebook pages sprang up to provide destinations for emigrating Israelis, including \"Olim L'Prague\", \"Olim L'Detroit\", and \"Olim L'Mars\".\n\n"}
{"id": "834809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=834809", "title": "Plantation tradition", "text": "Plantation tradition\n\nPlantation tradition is a genre of literature based in the southern states of the United States that is heavily nostalgic for antebellum times.\n\nThe decades before the American Civil War saw several works idealizing the plantation, such as John Pendleton Kennedy's 1832 \"The Swallow Barn\". However, plantation tradition became more popular in the late-nineteenth century as a reaction against slave narratives like those of Frederick Douglass, and abolitionist novels like \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\". Prominent writers in the plantation tradition include Thomas Nelson Page (1853-1922) and Harry Stillwell Edwards (1855-1938). Other writers, especially African-American writers, soon satirized the genre: Charles W. Chesnutt's \"The Conjure Woman\" (1899), for example, \"consciously evoke[d] the conventions of the plantation novel only to subvert them\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35420542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35420542", "title": "Project Hieroglyph", "text": "Project Hieroglyph\n\nProject Hieroglyph is an initiative to create science fiction that will spur innovation in science and technology founded by Neal Stephenson in 2011.\n\nStephenson framed the ideas behind Hieroglyph in a World Policy Institute article entitled \"Innovation Starvation\" where he attempts to rally writers to infuse science fiction with optimism that could inspire a new generation to, as he puts it, “get big stuff done.”\n\nStephenson says that \"a good SF universe has a coherence and internal logic that makes sense to scientists and engineers. Examples include Isaac Asimov's robots, Robert Heinlein's rocket ships, and William Gibson's cyberspace. Such icons serve as hieroglyphs—simple, recognizable symbols on whose significance everyone agrees.\"\n\nStephenson partnered with Arizona State University's Center for Science and the Imagination which now administers the project.\n\nIn September 2014, the project's first book, Hieroglyph: Stories and Visions for a Better Future, edited by Ed Finn and Kathryn Cramer was published by William Morrow. Contributors to the book include Neal Stephenson, Bruce Sterling, Madeline Ashby, Gregory Benford, Rudy Rucker, Vandana Singh, Cory Doctorow, Elizabeth Bear, Karl Schroeder, James Cambias, Brenda Cooper, Charlie Jane Anders, Kathleen Ann Goonan, Lee Konstantinou, Annalee Newitz, Geoffrey Landis, David Brin, Lawrence Krauss, and Paul Davies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5645845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5645845", "title": "SMOG", "text": "SMOG\n\nThe SMOG grade is a measure of readability that estimates the years of education needed to understand a piece of writing. SMOG is an acronym for Simple Measure of Gobbledygook.\n\nSMOG is widely used, particularly for checking health messages. The SMOG grade yields a 0.985 correlation with a standard error of 1.5159 grades with the grades of readers who had 100% comprehension of test materials.\n\nThe formula for calculating the SMOG grade was developed by G. Harry McLaughlin as a more accurate and more easily calculated substitute for the Gunning fog index and published in 1969. To make calculating a text's readability as simple as possible an approximate formula was also given — count the words of three or more syllables in three 10-sentence samples, estimate the count's square root (from the nearest perfect square), and add 3.\n\nA 2010 study published in the \"Journal of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh\" stated that “SMOG should be the preferred measure of readability when evaluating consumer-oriented healthcare material.” The study found that “The Flesch-Kincaid formula significantly underestimated reading difficulty compared with the gold standard SMOG formula.”\n\nApplying SMOG to other languages lacks statistical validity.\n\nTo calculate SMOG\n\nThis version (sometimes called the SMOG Index) is more easily used for mental math:\n\nSMOG conversion tables compiled by Harold C. McGraw are slightly inaccurate because they are based on the approximate formula. Furthermore, tables for texts of fewer than 30 sentences are statistically invalid, because the formula was normed on 30-sentence samples.\n"}
{"id": "4559795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4559795", "title": "Schmilblick", "text": "Schmilblick\n\nThe Schmilblick is an imaginary object first described in a nonsense prose by the French humorist Pierre Dac during the 1950s. According to its creator, the Schmilblick can be used in almost any occasion, therefore being strictly indispensable. Pierre Dac himself credits the brothers Jules and Raphaël Fauderche with its invention.\n\nThe \"Schmilblick\" resurfaced in 1969, in a TV Show by Guy Lux and Jacques Antoine entitled \"Le Schmilblic\" (sometimes spelled \"Schmilblik\" or \"Schmilblick\"). The aim of the game was to guess the name of an object given some of its characteristics (color, shape, use and so on). This TV game actually re-uses an idea from an old radio show created several years before and called \"Tirlipot\".\n\nColuche used this word in one of his sketches, a parody of Guy Lux's show.\n\nThe word quickly became very popular in French language and was sometimes used as a synonym for \"thing\" or \"stuff\", or something designating a strange or unknown object. Nowadays, this word is occasionally used to refer to some limited help provided by someone to solve a difficult problem. The idiom is actually \"faire avancer le schmilblick\" (\"to make the schmilblick move/get ahead\", literally) and was used a lot in the TV quiz show where it meant asking another pertinent question that might make it easier to guess the object.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2664107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2664107", "title": "Slipstream Magazine", "text": "Slipstream Magazine\n\nSlipstream is a literary press, founded in 1980 in Niagara Falls, New York, that publishes poetry and short fiction by both new and established writers. Charles Bukowski, Sherman Alexie, Gerald Locklin, Wanda Coleman, Lyn Lifshin, David Chorlton, J.P. Dancing Bear, and Terry Godbey are among the many writers whose work has appeared in the pages of \"Slipstream\" magazine. The press also publishes books of poetry by individual writers.\n\nThe editors of Slipstream are Robert Borgatti, Dan Sicoli, and Livio Farallo.\n\n"}
{"id": "18642438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18642438", "title": "Slogan (heraldry)", "text": "Slogan (heraldry)\n\nThe word \"slogan\" dates from 1513. It is a variant of the earlier \"slogorn\", which was an Anglicisation of the Scottish Gaelic \"sluagh-ghairm\" (\"sluagh\" \"army\", \"host\" + \"gairm\" \"cry\"). Slogans are used in heraldry, most notably in Scottish heraldry. In Scottish heraldry slogans are used as mottoes, or secondary mottoes. Slogans usually appear above the crest on a coat of arms, though sometimes they appear as a secondary motto beneath the shield. There may be several possible origins for mottoes used in heraldry, however slogans are considered to have originated from battle cries or war cries. There are several notable heraldic mottoes which are thought to originate from a war cries. For example, the Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom contains the motto \"DIEU ET MON DROIT\" (\"God and my right\") which has been thought to originated as a war cry. As has the motto \"MONTJOYE SAINT-DENIS\" which appeared on the former French coat of arms (this motto is refers to the \"oriflamme\", the royal standard of the kings of France, which was kept in the Basilique Saint-Denis). Several mottoes found in Irish heraldry, which end in \"a boo\", are also thought to have originated as war cries. Examples of such Irish mottoes are \"CROM A BOO\" of the Fitzgerald earls of Leinster; and \"SHANET A BOO\" of the Fitzgerald earls of Desmond.\n\nNot all slogans are actually authentic war cries though. Many slogans pertaining to Scottish clan chiefs have been registered relatively recently at the Court of the Lord Lyon. Sometimes slogans are merely a name, such as \"A HOME A HOME A HOME\" of the Homes, others refer to a rallying point for the clan, like \"CRUACHAN\" of the Campbells, some slogans refer to a prominent clansman like the Maclean \"Fear eile airson Eachuinn\" (\"Another for Hector\"). In at least one case, a patron saint is used as a slogan, as in \"St Bennet and Set On\" of the Setons. The arms of Grant use two slogans (or mottoes): \"CRAIG ELACHAIDH\" (which appears above the crest), and \"STANDFAST\" (which appears beneath on a scroll beneath the shield). Sometimes a clan chief's slogan appears on his crest badge and in consequence on the crest badges worn by his clan members. In some cases the chief's slogan also appears on his standard, guidon and pinsel.\n\n"}
{"id": "41841758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41841758", "title": "Slow education", "text": "Slow education\n\nSlow education is based upon Socratic, adaptive and non-standards based approaches to teaching. Slow education is in part a reaction to the overly compacted course content requirements teachers are experiencing from nationalized curricula worldwide, which many educators find students cannot cover in a single year with sufficient depth. Slow education is also a reaction to the proliferation of standardized testing, favoring instead qualitative measures of student and teacher success. Slow education is frequently a feature in free, democratic and home schools. However, it can be a significant element in any classroom, including those in college preparatory and rigorous environments. The term \"slow education\" was derived from the distinction between slow food and fast food or junk food, and is an effort to associate quality, culture and personalization with quality schooling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1036971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036971", "title": "Smile (musical)", "text": "Smile (musical)\n\nSmile is a musical with music by Marvin Hamlisch and book and lyrics by Howard Ashman. It was originally produced on Broadway in 1986. The musical is based loosely on the 1975 comedy film of the same title, from a screenplay by Jerry Belson.\n\nThe original 1975 film was directed by Michael Ritchie with a screenplay by Jerry Belson. It starred Barbara Feldon as Brenda DiCarlo, Nicholas Pryor as Andy DiCarlo (Brenda's husband in the film), Bruce Dern as Big Bob Freelander, Geoffrey Lewis as Wilson Shears, Joan Prather as Robin Gibson, Annette O'Toole as Doria Hudson, Melanie Griffith as Karen Love, and choreographer Michael Kidd as Tommy French. The movie was filmed on location in Santa Rosa, California with the pageant festivities at Veteran's Memorial Auditorium.\n\nThe original production opened on Broadway on November 24, 1986 at the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre and closed on January 3, 1987 after 48 performances. It was directed by Ashman with musical staging by Mary Kyte. It received a Tony Award nomination for Best Book of a Musical as well as Drama Desk Award nominations for Outstanding Featured Actor in a Musical (Michael O'Gorman) and Outstanding Costume Design (William Ivey Long).\n\n\"Smile\" chronicles the backstage troubles of the fictional 1985 California Young American Miss beauty pageant held in Santa Rosa, California. The main characters include Robin Gibson and Doria Hudson, two contestants who befriend and help each other throughout the week; Brenda DiCarlo Freelander, an ex-Young American Miss second-runner-up coordinating the pageant; and Brenda's husband Big Bob, an RV Salesman trying to help her through the week.\n\n\"Smile\" is considered a \"lost\" musical because no official cast recording was ever made. However, there does exist a demo CD by Broadway Original cast for Samuel French Publishing, which is a primary source for groups performing the show. Because of that, demos by original cast are audible at their merchandizing site, but they have never been released publicly. Some of the songs from the show, \"Disneyland,\" \"Smile,\" and \"In Our Hands,\" received their first recordings on Bruce Kimmel's Unsung Musicals album, released by Varese Sarabande. \"Disneyland\" was sung by Jodi Benson, who originated it in the show. On a subsequent volume Maria's Song was also recorded. In November 2008, the record label PS Classics rectified this loss, releasing the album \"Howard Sings Ashman\". The second disc is comprised completely of songs from \"Smile\", sung by Ashman and Hamlisch, with Hamlisch at the piano. They also put a transcript of a taped conversation between Ashman, Hamlisch and Bob Fosse discussing the development of the musical on their website.\n\nAfter the Broadway production of \"Smile\" flopped, Ashman and Hamlisch revised the show for stock productions. Book changes include the change of Shawn's roommate from Connie-Sue to Maria, and the addition of some material for Bob. The score was further revised, gaining a completely re-structured opening number (though retaining most of the original melody and words), a new song for Brenda (\"Very Best Week of Your Lives\") that completely replaced the Orientation Sequence musically, a new song for Bob (Bob's Song), a new number for the winner of the pageant (There Goes the Girl) and a completely new melody and lyric set for Robin's letters home and a slight decrease in the time given to them. The ending was also re-worked giving Bob a significant musical section new to the revised version.\n\nMany of the small lyric changes to the licensed version actually originated before the Broadway production. When reading Lincoln Center's photocopy of the Broadway rehearsal script to \"Smile\", many of the licensed lyrics are printed but scratched out and replaced with what was sung at the Lunt-Fontanne, handwritten.\n\nAn hour-long recording of the licensed version was made for Samuel French (the licensing agent) to distribute to groups interested in performing \"Smile\". It uses many of the original Broadway cast, including Marsha Waterbury, Jodi Benson, Anne Marie Bobby, Tia Riebling and Dick Patterson. Director and author Howard Ashman played the role of Big Bob in Jeff McCarthy's absence. This recording is often referred to incorrectly as an unreleased cast recording when it is in fact a demo.\n\nA private \"industry\" reading was scheduled for November 19, 2010, reflecting the revisions.\n\nA production of \"Smile\" was presented by Awkward Stage Productions in Vancouver, BC, Canada. Awkward Stage's production featured all the adult characters being played by puppets (a la \"Avenue Q\" style puppetry). \nAwkward Stage Productions version of Smile, was presented at the Firehall Arts Centre as part of the Vancouver International Fringe Festival Sept. 8-18 2011. As well as at the Norman Rothstein Theatre in Vancouver, BC. Canada, October 26–30, 2011.\n\nThe Smile reunion concert was presented at 54 Below, New York, NY, on Sept. 22nd, 2014. The concert featured Jodi Benson, Mana Allen, Anne Bobby, Cheryl-Ann Rossi, and other original Broadway casts. \n\nThe show opens with Dale Wilson Shears, chairman of the fictitious Young American Miss Foundation, explaining to the audience the qualities of an ideal Young American Miss. The contestants begin to enter and, throughout the course of the song, prepare for their journey to the pageant in Santa Rosa, waving goodbye as the number ends. (\"Typical High School Senior\"). In Santa Rosa, pageant coordinator Brenda Dicarlo Freelander and head judge Big Bob Freelander are photographed for a Jaycee newsletter. Brenda receives a letter that Wilson Shears himself will be attending the pageant. When the girls arrive, Brenda gives them an orientation presentation of what to expect during the upcoming week (\"The Very Best Week of Your Lives\"). The audience learns that Brenda is a former Young American Miss herself. The story then switches over to the dorms, where two sets of roommates, Maria and Shawn and Doria and Robin, are getting ready for bed. Doria, an experienced contestant, talks about her passion for pageants with Robin while the latter writes a postcard to her mother (\"Dear Mom #1\"). When Robin is finished, Doria relates the memory of her first pageant, a television broadcast of the Miss Anaheim pageant in Disneyland, and sings of her dream to someday go there in person (\"Disneyland\").\n\nThe next morning, Little Bob is caught staring at the pageant applications by his father. Oblivious to Little Bob's less-than-wholesome interest in the girls, Big Bob praises him for taking an interest in the pageant. The girls enter and begin to learn a difficult dance routine under famed choreographer Tommy French (\"Shine\"). During the song, several girls break away from the dance and give short speeches to Social Clubs, the local sponsors of the event. The girls exit and Brenda vows that she will stay cool under the watchful eye of Wilson Shears and the national foundation, unlike her own Young American Miss finals eighteen years ago.\n\nRobin, who has no experience in pageants, is worn out and wants to leave (\"Dear Mom #2\"). Meanwhile, Shawn has become angry over the attention Mexican-American Maria is garnering from the judges and sponsors. Shawn voices her wishes to get Maria out of the competition to Valerie, another contestant. The scene shifts to Big Bob in a meeting with the other judges. He asks them to look beyond the appearance of the girls and look into their hearts, and how nobody does this. (\"Bob's Song\"). Late that night, Little Bob and his friend Freddy are seen sneaking around the building where the pageant will be held. Their plan, to sell nude photos of the girls to local kids, is revealed. The scene changes to the next morning, as the girls complain of various ailments brought on by the intense dance workouts, a lack of sleep, and the subpar food as Brenda passes out the day's schedule (\"Nerves\"). Private interviews with the judges are held. Robin, who is fatherless but refuses to play for sympathy, panics and runs out of the room when asked about her family. The girls, led by Tommy, rehearse for the upcoming Preliminary Night competition. However, the rehearsal is abruptly cut short when Tommy and Brenda argue over a large ramp extending into the audience. Although featured in Tommy's plans, the ramp made unusable many seats that had already been sold. Brenda offers to deduct the cost of the seats from Tommy's check, which prompts him to strike the ramp. When the girls try to rehearse without it, one of the contestants falls. Seeing Brenda's lack of sympathy, Tommy tells her to deduct the money and proceed with the ramp. Preliminary night begins and the girls compete in three categories: Vim and Vigor, Scholastic Achievement, and Creative Talent. (\"Young and American\"). Sandra-Kay Macaffee, Robin Gibson, and Maria Gonzales win respectively in each category.\n\nThe girls return to the dorms and Doria, who believes she has no chance of winning the competition now, begins to pass on her knowledge of pageantry. The girls begin to sing of their anxiety for the pageant the next night, later joined by Brenda and Big Bob (\"Until Tomorrow Night\"). Shawn catches Little Bob and Freddy taking pictures of her in the shower and, though initially angry, strikes up a deal with them. The song ends in state of high anticipation.\n\nIn the dressing room just before the pageant Robin writes a third letter to her mother (\"Dear Mom #3\"). The girls anxiously sing of the pageant as they make their final preparations and are introduced to the event's MC, radio and television personality Ted Farley (\"Opening Act 2\"). The girls, preparations complete, exit. The \"pageant\" opens with Ted Farley greeting the audience and introducing the previous year's winner, Joanne Marshall. The two dance briefly and the girls enter, carrying parasols (\"Smile\"). As they sing, each girl gets a chance to open her parasol and perform a brief quip. When Robin's turn comes, her parasol breaks and she runs offstage. Encouraged by Tommy French, she runs on and ad-libs a quip before the dance moves on. The girls continue their dance as a slideshow of their photographs appear on a large screen. Each girl has a chance to pose in front of her photograph, concluding with Maria. However, to Maria's shock and horror, the photo she sees is not a posed glamour shot, but a nude photo taken in the shower. Maria runs off and the action switches backstage. As Ted continues the show, Brenda attempts to persuade Maria to go back on stage and perform. Maria refuses and leaves.\n\nDale Wilson-Shears confronts Brenda about the catastrophe on stage as the girls perform an (off-stage) number (\"Get The Girls\"). After realizing that Maria was a finalist in the competition, she crosses her name off of the list and marches onto the pageant stage. After she gives an impassioned defense of the pageant and its honor, Ted announces the four finalists: Shawn, Sandra-Kay, Robin, and Doria. The girls sing as Ted introduces the girls (\"We Wish We Were You\"). Backstage, Bob informs Brenda that the judges do not want to pick a winner in light of what happened. He and Brenda fight and Brenda fires Bob. The four finalists then give their final remarks before the winner is announced. (\"In Our Hands\"). Robin finally reveals to the judges that she is fatherless, and Big Bob finds out that his son is the one who took that picture. Ted and Joanne announce the first runner-up of the pageant, Doria Hudson. After a brief moment, the winner is announced as Sandra-Kay, Bakerfield's Young American Miss. Ted sings as Sandra-Kay walks the runway (\"There Goes The Girl\")\n\nWilson Shears congratulates Brenda on saving the pageant and offers her a spot on the National Committee. Brenda tries to reconcile with Bob, but to no avail. Bob, alone on stage, wonders how he can reconcile with his family. In their dorm room, Doria tries to convince Robin to join her in the Miss Sunbelt Pageant. Robin ultimately decides to go home to find her own destiny. When she sees that Robin has left without her, Doria takes a winner's stance in her runner-up tiara and roses, once again singing of Disneyland, the only place she can feel loved and accepted (\"Finale\")\n\n\nThe original Broadway cast included 16 contestants, a number of incidental roles, and the principal roles listed below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28547", "title": "Sokal affair", "text": "Sokal affair\n\nThe Sokal affair, also called the Sokal hoax, was a scholarly publishing sting perpetrated by Alan Sokal, a physics professor at New York University and University College London. In 1996, Sokal submitted an article to \"Social Text\", an academic journal of postmodern cultural studies. The submission was an experiment to test the journal's intellectual rigor and, specifically, to investigate whether \"a leading North American journal of cultural studies – whose editorial collective includes such luminaries as Fredric Jameson and Andrew Ross – [would] publish an article liberally salted with nonsense if (a) it sounded good and (b) it flattered the editors' ideological preconceptions\".\n\nThe article, \"Transgressing the Boundaries: Towards a Transformative Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity\", was published in the \"Social Text\" spring/summer 1996 \"Science Wars\" issue. It proposed that quantum gravity is a social and linguistic construct. At that time, the journal did not practice academic peer review and it did not submit the article for outside expert review by a physicist. On the day of its publication in May 1996, Sokal revealed in \"Lingua Franca\" that the article was a hoax.\n\nThe hoax sparked a debate about the scholarly merit of commentary about the physical sciences by those in the humanities; the influence of postmodern philosophy on social disciplines in general; academic ethics, including whether Sokal was wrong to deceive the editors and readers of \"Social Text\"; and whether \"Social Text\" had exercised appropriate intellectual rigor.\n\nIn an interview on the U.S. radio program \"All Things Considered\", Sokal said he was inspired to submit the bogus article after reading \"Higher Superstition\" (1994), in which authors Paul R. Gross and Norman Levitt claim that some humanities journals would publish anything as long as it had \"the proper leftist thought\" and quoted (or was written by) well-known leftist thinkers.\n\nGross and Levitt had been vocal defenders of the scientific realist camp of the \"science wars\", opposing postmodernist academics who questioned scientific objectivity. They asserted that anti-intellectual sentiment in liberal arts departments (and especially in English departments) caused the rise of deconstructionist thought, which eventually led to a deconstructionist critique of science. They saw the critique as a \"repertoire of rationalizations\" for avoiding the study of science.\n\nSokal reasoned that, if the presumption of editorial laziness was correct, the nonsensical content of his article would be irrelevant to whether the editors would publish it. What would matter would be ideologic obsequiousness, fawning references to deconstructionist writers, and sufficient quantities of the appropriate jargon. Writing after the article was published and the hoax revealed, he stated:\n\nThe results of my little experiment demonstrate, at the very least, that some fashionable sectors of the American academic Left have been getting intellectually lazy. The editors of Social Text liked my article because they liked its conclusion: that \"the content and methodology of postmodern science provide powerful intellectual support for the progressive political project\" [sec. 6]. They apparently felt no need to analyze the quality of the evidence, the cogency of the arguments, or even the relevance of the arguments to the purported conclusion.\n\n\"Transgressing the Boundaries: Towards a Transformative Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity\" proposed that quantum gravity has progressive political implications, and that the \"morphogenetic field\" could be a cutting-edge theory of quantum gravity (a morphogenetic field is a concept adapted by Rupert Sheldrake in a way that Sokal characterized in the affair's aftermath as \"a bizarre New Age idea\"). Sokal wrote that the concept of \"an external world whose properties are independent of any individual human being\" was \"dogma imposed by the long post-Enlightenment hegemony over the Western intellectual outlook\".\n\nAfter referring skeptically to the \"so-called scientific method\", the article declared that \"it is becoming increasingly apparent that physical 'reality is fundamentally \"a social and linguistic construct\". It went on to state that because scientific research is \"inherently theory-laden and self-referential\", it \"cannot assert a privileged epistemological status with respect to counterhegemonic narratives emanating from dissident or marginalized communities\" and that therefore a \"liberatory science\" and an \"emancipatory mathematics\", spurning \"the elite caste canon of 'high science, needed to be established for a \"postmodern science [that] provide[s] powerful intellectual support for the progressive political project\".\n\nMoreover, the article's footnotes conflate academic terms with sociopolitical rhetoric, e.g.:\n\nSokal submitted the article to \"Social Text\", whose editors were collecting articles for the \"Science Wars\" issue. \"Transgressing the Boundaries: Towards a Transformative Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity\" was the only article submitted by a natural scientist. Later, after Sokal's self-exposure of his pseudoscientific hoax article in the journal \"Lingua Franca\", the \"Social Text\" editors said in a published essay that they had requested editorial changes that Sokal refused to make, and had had concerns about the quality of the writing, stating \"We requested him (a) to excise a good deal of the philosophical speculation and (b) to excise most of his footnotes\". Nonetheless, despite subsequently designating the physicist as having been a \"difficult, uncooperative author\", and noting that such writers were \"well known to journal editors\", \"Social Text\" published the article in acknowledgment of the author's credentials in the May 1996 Spring/Summer \"Science Wars\" issue. The editors did not seek peer review of the article by physicists or otherwise; they later defended this decision on the basis that \"Social Text\" was a journal for open intellectual inquiry and the article was not offered as a contribution to the physics discipline.\n\nIn the May 1996 issue of \"Lingua Franca\", in the article \"A Physicist Experiments With Cultural Studies\", Sokal revealed that \"Transgressing the Boundaries\" was a hoax and concluded that \"Social Text\" \"felt comfortable publishing an article on quantum physics without bothering to consult anyone knowledgeable in the subject\" because of its ideological proclivities and editorial bias. In their defense, the \"Social Text\" editors said they believed that \"Transgressing the Boundaries\" \"was the earnest attempt of a professional scientist to seek some kind of affirmation from postmodern philosophy for developments in his field\" and that \"its status as parody does not alter, substantially, our interest in the piece, itself, as a symptomatic document\". Besides criticizing his writing style, the \"Social Text\" editors accused Sokal of behaving unethically in deceiving them.\n\nSokal said the editors' response illustrated the problem he highlighted. \"Social Text\", as an academic journal, published the article not because it was faithful, true and accurate to its subject but because an \"academic authority\" had written it and because of the appearance of the obscure writing. The editors said they considered it poorly written but published it because they felt Sokal was an academic seeking their intellectual affirmation. Sokal remarked:\n\n\"Social Text\"'s response revealed that none of the editors had suspected Sokal's piece was a parody. Instead, they speculated Sokal's admission \"represented a change of heart, or a folding of his intellectual resolve\". Sokal found further humor in the idea that the article's absurdity was hard to spot:\n\nIn 1997, Sokal and Jean Bricmont co-wrote \"Impostures intellectuelles\" (U.S.: \"Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science\", U.K.: \"Intellectual Impostures\", 1998). The book featured analysis of extracts from established intellectuals' writings that Sokal and Bricmont claimed misused scientific terminology. It closed with a critical summary of postmodernism and criticism of the strong programme of social constructionism in the sociology of scientific knowledge.\n\nAs Sokal revealed the hoax, the French philosopher Jacques Derrida was initially one of the targets of discredit in the United States, particularly in newspaper coverage. A U.S. weekly magazine used two images of Derrida, a photo and a caricature, to illustrate a \"dossier\" on the Sokal article. Derrida responded to the hoax in \"Sokal et Bricmont ne sont pas sérieux\" (\"Sokal and Bricmont Aren't Serious\"), first published on 20 November 1997 in \"Le Monde\". He called Sokal's action sad (\"triste\") for having overshadowed Sokal's mathematical work and ruining the chance to carefully sort out controversies about scientific objectivity. Derrida went on to fault him and coauthor Jean Bricmont for what he considered an act of intellectual bad faith in describing their follow-up book, \"Impostures intellectuelles\" (UK: \"Intellectual Impostures\"; US: \"Fashionable Nonsense\"): they had published two articles almost simultaneously, one in English in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" on 17 October 1997 and one in French in \"Libération\" on 18–19 October 1997, but while the two articles were almost identical, they differed in how they treated Derrida. The English-language article had a list of French intellectuals who were not included in Sokal and Bricmont's book: \"Such well-known thinkers as Althusser, Barthes, and Foucault—who, as readers of the TLS will be well aware, have always had their supporters and detractors on both sides of the Channel—appear in our book only in a minor role, as cheerleaders for the texts we criticize.\" The French-language list, however, included Derrida: \"Des penseurs célèbres tels qu'Althusser, Barthes, Derrida et Foucault sont essentiellement absents de notre livre.\" Derrida may also have been sensitive to a slight difference between the French and English versions of \"Impostures intellectuelles\". In the French, his citation from the original hoax article is said to be an \"isolated\" instance of abuse, whereas the English text adds a parenthetical remark that Derrida's work contained \"no systematic misuse (or indeed attention to) science.\" Derrida cried foul, but Sokal and Bricmont insisted that the difference between the articles was \"banal.\" Nevertheless, Derrida concluded, as the title of his article indicates, that Sokal was not serious in his approach, but had used the spectacle of a \"quick practical joke\" to displace the scholarship Derrida believed the public deserved.\n\nSociologist Stephen Hilgartner, the Cornell University science and technology studies department chairman, wrote \"The Sokal Affair in Context\" (1997), comparing Sokal's hoax to \"Confirmational Response: Bias Among Social Work Journals\" (1990), an article by William M. Epstein published in \"Science, Technology & Human Values\". Epstein used a similar approach to Sokal's, submitting fictitious articles to real academic journals to measure their response. Though far more systematic than Sokal's work, it received scant media attention. Hilgartner argued that the intellectual impact of the successful Sokal hoax cannot be attributed to its quality as a \"demonstration\" but rather to journalistic hyperbole and the anti-intellectual biases of some American journalists.\n\nThe Sokal Affair scandal extended from academia to the public press. The anthropologist Bruno Latour, criticized in \"Fashionable Nonsense\", described the scandal as a \"tempest in a tea cup\". Retired Northeastern University mathematician turned social scientist Gabriel Stolzenberg wrote essays meant to discredit the statements of Sokal and his allies, arguing that they insufficiently grasped the philosophy they criticized, rendering their criticism meaningless. In \"Social Studies of Science\", Bricmont and Sokal responded to Stolzenberg, denouncing his \"tendentious misrepresentations\" of their work and criticizing Stolzenberg's commentary about the \"strong programme\" of the sociology of science. In the same issue, Stolzenberg replied, arguing that their critique and allegations of misrepresentation were based on misreadings. He advised readers to slowly and skeptically examine the arguments proposed by each party, bearing in mind that \"the obvious is sometimes the enemy of the true\".\n\nIn 2009, Cornell sociologist Robb Willer performed an experiment in which undergraduate students read Sokal's paper and were told either that it was written by another student or that it was by a famous academic. He found that students who believed the paper's author was a high-status intellectual rated it higher in quality and intelligibility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3049241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3049241", "title": "The Hook", "text": "The Hook\n\nThe Hook or The Hookman is an urban legend about a killer with a hook for a hand attacking a couple in a parked car. The story is thought to date from at least the mid-1950s, and gained significant attention when it was reprinted in the advice column \"Dear Abby\" in 1960. It has since become a morality archetype in popular culture, and has been referenced in various horror films. \n\nThe basic premise involves a young couple parking at a lovers' lane. The radio plays while they’re making out. Suddenly, a news bulletin reports that a serial killer has just escaped from a nearby institution. The killer has a hook for one of his hands. For varying reasons, they decide to leave quickly. In the end, the killer's hook is either found hanging from the door handle or embedded into the door itself. Different variations include a scraping sound on the car door. Some versions start the same way, but have the couple spotting the killer, warning others, and then narrowly escaping with the killer holding onto the car's roof.\n\nIn an alternate version, the couple drive through an unknown part of the country late at night and stop in the middle of the woods, because either the male has to relieve himself, or the car breaks down and the man leaves for help. While waiting for him to return, the female turns on the radio and hears the report of an escaped mental patient. She is then disturbed many times by a thumping on the roof of the car. She eventually exits and sees the escaped patient sitting on the roof, banging the male's severed head on it. Another variation has the female seeing the male's butchered body suspended upside down from a tree with his fingers scraping the roof. In other versions the man does return to the car only to see his date brutally murdered with a hook embedded in her. In other versions, the woman gets out of the car when her date doesn't come back. Only to see his mutilated body (either on the car's roof, nailed on a tree, or just a few short steps way). But as she starts to panic, she runs into the maniac and she too gets killed.\n\nThere is also another legend that is similar. In the legend, the young couple are heading back from a great date but their car breaks down (either from running out of fuel or a malfunction). The man then decides to head off on foot to find someone or somewhere to help with the problem while the woman stays behind in the car. She then falls asleep while waiting and wakes up to see a hideous person looking at her through the window. Luckily the car is locked so the person can't get inside. But to the woman's horror, the person raises both of his arms to reveal that they are holding her date's severed head in one hand and the car keys in the other. The fate of the woman is never revealed.\n\nThe origins of the Hook legend are not entirely known, though, according to folklorist and historian Jan Harold Brunvand, the story began to circulate some time in the 1950s in the United States. According to Brunvand in \"The Vanishing Hitchhiker: American Urban Legends and Their Meanings\", the story had become widespread amongst American teenagers by 1959, and continued to expand into the 1960s.\n\nThe first known publication of the story occurred on November 8, 1960, when a reader letter telling the story was reprinted in \"Dear Abby\", a popular advice column:\n\nDear Abby: If you are interested in teenagers, you will print this story. I don't know whether it's true or not, but it doesn't matter because it served its purpose for me: A fellow and his date pulled into their favorite \"lovers lane\" to listen to the radio and do a little necking. The music was interrupted by an announcer who said there was an escaped convict in the area who had served time for rape and robbery. He was described as having a hook instead of a right hand. The couple become frightened and drove away. When the boy took his girl home, he went around to open the car door for her. Then he saw—a hook on the door handle! I will never park to make out as long as I live. I hope this does the same for other kids. —Jeanette\n\nLiterary scholar Christopher Pittard traces the plot dynamics of the legend to Victorian literature, particularly the 1913 horror novel \"The Lodger\" by Marie Adelaide Belloc Lowndes. Though the two narratives have little in common, he notes that both are built upon a \"threefold relationship of crime, dirt, and chance... Such a reading also implies a reconsideration of the historical trajectory of the urban legend, usually read as a product of postmodernist consumer culture.\"\n\nFolklorists have interpreted the long history of this legend in many ways. Alan Dundes's Freudian interpretation explains the hook as a phallic symbol and its amputation as a symbolic castration.\n\nSwedish folklorist Bengt af Klintberg describes the story as an example of \"a conflict between representatives of normal people who follow the rules of society and those who are not normal, who deviate and threaten the normal group.\"\n\nAmerican folklorist Bill Ellis interpreted the maniac in \"The Hook\" as a moral custodian who interrupts the sexual experimentation of the young couple. He sees the Hookman's handicap as \"his own lack of sexuality\" and \"the threat of the Hookman is not the normal sex drive of teenagers, but the abnormal drive of some adults to keep them apart.\" \n\nThe Hook legend has most often been depicted and referenced in horror films. Its prevalence, according to film scholar Mark Kermode, is most reflected in the slasher film, functioning as a morality archetype on youth sexuality. \n\nIn \"Meatballs\" (1979), Bill Murray's character retells the Hook legend to campers around a campfire. \"He Knows You're Alone\" (1980) opens with a film within a film scene in which a young couple are attacked by a killer while in a parked car. The slasher film \"Final Exam\" opens with a scene in which a couple are attacked in a parked car, and later, a student is murdered in a university locker room with a hook. \"Campfire Tales\" (1997), an anthology horror film, opens with a segment retelling the Hook legend, set in the 1950s. \"I Know What You Did Last Summer\" (1997) features a killer stalking teenagers with a hook; at the beginning of the film, the central characters recount the Hook legend around a campfire. \"The Pest House\" (1998), the fourteenth episode of season 2 of the TV series \"Millennium\", opens with a murder similar to that of the urban legend. \"Lovers Lane\" (1999), is a slasher film featuring a killer who murders teenagers at a lovers' lane with a hook. Season one, episode seven of the TV show \"Supernatural\" features a hookman as the villain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30387768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30387768", "title": "Thomas Mahon (tailor)", "text": "Thomas Mahon (tailor)\n\nThomas Mahon is an English tailor, noted for outfitting the British Royal Family and other VIP clients. He is also noted for his former ground breaking blog, englishcut.com.\n\nMahon was born in Carlisle, Cumbria and grew up in the small village of Corby Hill, Cumbria. He was educated at the local village school and went on to the former grammar school, White House in Brampton, Cumbria. He entered the tailoring trade by taking a summer job at bespoke tailors S. Redmayne Ltd. There the company's owner, Michael Wigglesworth, great, great grandson of the company's founder encouraged Mahon into, what would be a lifelong career in the craft of bespoke Savile Row tailoring. As Wigglesworth pointed out, \"Mahon had a vocation and a natural love of the craft\". He stayed at Redmayne and completed his apprenticeship whilst studying Industrial pattern construction and grading at a local polytechnic. After seven years of training he left Redmayne for London and furthered his skills as a \"striker\" (apprentice cutter) to Dennis Halbery at Anderson & Sheppard of Savile Row.&\n\nIn 1995, Mahon started his own bespoke tailoring company called \"Steed Bespoke Tailors\" with Edwin Deboise, before going independent in 2001. In 2005, he began his weblog English Cut with aid of cartoonist and Internet entrepreneur Hugh McLeod, in order to promote his business and share his knowledge of the traditional tailor's craft.\n\nMahon's customers, reportedly include Prince Charles and Sir Jonathan Ive. Although Mahon will admit only to having Prince Charles as a client and is known for not disclosing his Savile Row clients.\n\nMahon credits his weblog with helping build his business to the point where he had to temporarily stop accepting new clients in 2007 He's quoted as saying \"this is about relationships. It's the old adage that quality, not quantity is key.\"\n\nMahon is married to his wife Claire who also studied tailoring, fashion and design at UCA, Epsom. They have three boys, Patrick, Francis and John. In his spare time he is a keen sailor and teaches sailing and navigation with the rank of Petty Officer in the Sea Cadet Corps, the UK's Naval Cadet Force.\n\nEnglish Cut traded successfully building a worldwide client base and reputation. After Mahon's position was confirmed as one of the worlds most respected tailors he sought to expand the business and its services. In late 2012, Mahon began working with Christian Irving. Irving, a long time friend and colleague recognised the potential of harnessing Mahon's knowledge and reputation to offer a high quality made to measure tailoring service. A service which would be much more available and affordable than traditional bespoke. Mahon then began searching for a suitable high quality manufacturer. Through his client contacts he found himself a manufacturer in Japan. Mutual respect and Mahon's reputation and knowledge allowed him to totally, re design and raise the standards of style and fit. Work on this new service was continually supervised by Mahon for the next four years. Culminating with a personal visit to Japan in May 2017, two months before being ousted as founder, head cutter and creative director of English Cut.\n\nThis situation arose when 2015 Mahon was approached to sell a 20% stake in English Cut Ltd to Todd Enright on behalf of White Winston LLC, Boston, MA. Although the purchase was never completed a loan note from White Winston was enforced as the main creditor on 31 July 2017. This involved the company being in an insolvent position and forced into administration by White Winston. Mahon was invited to stay under new terms but found the conditions totally unacceptable and left the same day. \n\nMahon subsequently started his own blog, cuttinganswers.com and also returned as head cutter and creative director of his original company, where he started in 1983, Redmayne Ltd.\n\nHis bespoke tailoring is still available on a limited basis whilst training his apprentice Eden Lewis since 2015. A full made to measure service will follow in the autumn of 2017\n\n"}
{"id": "8086613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8086613", "title": "Tourist Organisation of Belgrade", "text": "Tourist Organisation of Belgrade\n\nThe Tourist Organization of Belgrade (TOB) is a public service of the Belgrade City Assembly established with the objective to present, develop and promote tourist values of Belgrade, the Serbian capital city. \n\nIn 1995, TOB assumed the legal continuity of the Tourist Federation of Belgrade (Serbian: \"Turistički savez Beograda\"), which was founded in 1953. \n"}
{"id": "46876645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46876645", "title": "Venezuelan units of measurement", "text": "Venezuelan units of measurement\n\nA number of units of measurement were used in Venezuela to measure quantities like length, mass, etc. Metric system was optional in Venezuela since 1857, and has been compulsory since 1914.\n\nOlder system was Spain (Castilian) System. \n\nSeveral units were used. Following of Granada:\n\n1 vara = 0.8 m\n\n1 meile = 6280 vara.\nSome other units are:\n1 legua = 6280 vara\n1 pie = 1/3 vara\n1 cuarta = 1/4 vara\n1 pulgada = 1/36 vara.\n\nAccording to an older source, one vara was equal to 0.835 m (32.874 in).\n\nSeveral units were used. Following of Granada:\n1 libra = 1 kg\n1 bag = 62.5 kg.\n\nAccording to a source libra was equal to 0.500 kg. Some other units are:\n\n1 tonelada = 2000 libra\n\n1 carga = 250 libra\n\n1 Saco = 125 libra\n\n1 Quintal = 100 libra\n\n1 arroba = 25 libra\n\n1 onza = 1/16 libra.\n\nAccording to another older source, one quintal was equal to 46.012 kg (101.438 1 lb).\n\nOne arroba was equal to 16.137 l.\n"}
{"id": "1172207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172207", "title": "Voodoo Academy", "text": "Voodoo Academy\n\nVoodoo Academy is a Horror/Fantasy movie, released in 2000, directed by David DeCoteau.\n\nYoung Christopher has just enrolled at the prestigious Carmichael Bible College, managed by the somewhat unusual Mrs. Bouvier. After some unexplained disappearances, Christopher discovers that Mrs. Bouvier and the Reverend Carmichael have some very bad intentions for the young men of their school. It soon becomes clear that voodoo magic is being used and the boys are the tools with which the college faculty will try to resurrect Satan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5831848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5831848", "title": "Wristcutters: A Love Story", "text": "Wristcutters: A Love Story\n\nWristcutters: A Love Story is a 2006 American black comedy road movie written and directed by Goran Dukić and starring Patrick Fugit, Shea Whigham, and Shannyn Sossamon. Its premise is set in a strange afterlife way-station that has been reserved for people who have died by suicide.\n\nIt is based on Etgar Keret's short story \"Kneller's Happy Campers\". A graphic novel version was titled \"Pizzeria Kamikaze.\"\n\nThe film was originally intended to be shot on super-16 color infrared film, which was produced specially by Kodak. The color-shifts inherent in using this kind of film were thought to enhance the parallel world feel to the action. In the end, it proved to be too time-consuming and the film was shot using normal filmstock manipulated in post-processing.\n\nThe film was produced on an estimated budget of $1 million. Premiered at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival, it was distributed in limited release on October 19, 2007, before being expanded into wide release on November 2, 2007. It was released on DVD on March 25, 2008, courtesy of Lionsgate Home Entertainment. The film received positive reviews and has garnered a cult following.\n\nAfter Zia takes his own life, he finds himself in an afterlife limbo much the same as life, just slightly worse. Here the color is dim, there are no stars, and no one can smile. This strange realm is populated by people who have died by suicide, such as Eugene, a Russian musician who lives with his mother, father, and brother – all suicide victims. Together they waste most of their afterlives in bars, until Zia learns from a friend, Brian, that his ex-girlfriend, Desiree, has also taken her own life. He and Eugene take to the road to find her, in Eugene's rundown car. Early on, it is revealed that Eugene's car has two idiosyncrasies: a sort of black hole underneath the passenger seat where items that are dropped disappear forever and broken headlights that cannot be fixed by even the most adept of mechanics. On their trip, they pick up hitchhiker Mikal, who insists there has been a mistake, and is seeking the \"people in charge\" (a.k.a. the PIC) in order to be sent back.\n\nAfter a few adventures across the country, as the trio journey along a desolate highway, Mikal pushes a button, miraculously activating the broken headlights on Eugene's car. Shortly thereafter, they come upon a man lying in the middle of the dark highway, forcing them to veer off the road in order to avoid hitting him and wrecking the car in the process.\n\nThey discover the man, Kneller, an eccentric commune leader, had fallen asleep while looking for his dog. Kneller invites them back to his camp, where they quickly discover that minor \"miracles\" occur, as long as the campers remain apathetic about the result. The group stays with the camp longer than intended, and Zia begins to obsess over the miracles and his inability to perform them. When contrasting this to Mikal's obsession with the people in charge, she reveals that her death was an accidental overdose. Eugene meets a young woman, Nanuk, whom he romances. Just as Mikal and Zia discuss their plans to leave Kneller's camp, another camper, Yan, emerges from the woods with news that Kneller's dog has been abducted by a cult leader called \"Messiah King\". Kneller, Zia, Mikal, and Yan set off in search of King and Kneller's dog.\n\nThe group soon find themselves lost and decide to bed down for the night. Unable to sleep, Mikal and Zia discover a nearby ocean shore, where they kiss and spend the night together. In the morning, Kneller discovers them lying among a mass of (presumably used) condoms and needles. The group eventually reach King's camp, where they discover that King is readying himself for a \"real\" miracle – to separate his soul from his body. As Kneller confronts King, Zia discovers that his Desiree is a devout cult follower, having taken her own life for the purpose of following King into the afterlife.\n\nAs King is about to perform public, ritual suicide, Kneller reveals himself to be an undercover agent for the people in charge. King and Desiree are taken away, while Mikal leaves with them, promising Zia that she'll return. As Zia waits, Eugene and Nanuk arrive, explaining that Mikal has been returned to life and Kneller's camp has been shut down. They depart together on a train, giving Eugene's car to Zia. After finally performing a miracle - creating a star in the sky next to one that Mikal had created earlier - Zia enters the black hole under the car seat.\n\nIn a large warehouse filled with halls of boxes, Kneller is seen picking up Zia's file from a box, placing it into his inside breast pocket, and commenting on how fortunate it is to know people in high places. Zia wakes up in a hospital bed. He turns his head, noting his parents outside talking to doctors. When he looks at the person in the bed next to his, he sees Mikal. Both look at each other and smile.\n\n\nGogol Bordello's music forms the backbone of the soundtrack for the film; the character Eugene is partly based on the band's lead singer, Eugene Hütz. Tom Waits, who plays Kneller in the film, also appears on the soundtrack with the song \"Dead and Lovely\" (from his 2004 album \"Real Gone\") in the opening credits. Joy Division's \"Love Will Tear Us Apart\" and Christian Death's \"Deathwish\" can be heard in the background of the first bar scene of the film (both bands were fronted by singers who died by suicide), and an arrangement of \"Gloomy Sunday\" can be heard at a later point, songs about or associated with suicide.\n\nThe film received a positive review in \"The New York Times\", which named it a \"Critics' Pick\" and said in part that it \"has an offbeat, absurdist charm that turns a potentially creepy concept into an odd, touching adventure.\" As of March 2015, the film had a 67% \"fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n\n"}
