{"id": "45467007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45467007", "title": "Abu ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Saʿd ibn Mardanīš", "text": "Abu ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Saʿd ibn Mardanīš\n\nAbu ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Mardanīš (born 1124×25 [ 518], died 1172 [ 568]) was the king of Murcia from 1147 ( 542) until his death. He established his rule over the cities of Murcia, Valencia and Dénia as the power of the Almoravid emirate declined, and he opposed the spread of the Almohad caliphate. Christian sources refer to him as the \"Wolf King\" (Latin \"rex Lupus\", Spanish \"rey Lobo\" or \"rey Lope\").\n\nIbn Mardanīš's full name was Abu ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Saʿd ibn Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad ibn Mardanīš al-Ȳuḍāmī (or at-Tuȳībī), indicate he was the son of Saʿd, son of Muḥammad, son of Aḥmad, son of Mardanīš. He was a \"mūwallad\", a descendant of a native Iberian convert to Islam, and his last name is not of Arabic origin. The thirteenth-century Islamic scholar Ibn Khallikān derived it from an Ibero-Romance term for dung (via Latin \"merda\"), perhaps because of Ibn Mardanīš's friendly relations with the Christians. It is more likely a corruption of Merdanix (today Merdancho), the name of a tributary of the river Najerilla, which was on the border between Christian and Islamic Spain in the early tenth century. This hydronym in turn derives from the Latin for dung, indicating dirty waters. This is consistent with Ibn Mardanīš's family emigrating from the \"aṯ-Ṯaḡr al-Aʿlā\" (Upper March) around the Rioja, as told in Arabic sources.\n\nIn the first year of his rule (1147/8), Ibn Mardanīš faced the rebellion of his relative, Yūsuf ibn Hilāl, based in the castle of Montornés. Yūsuf conquered the castles of \"al-Ṣujayra\" and \"al-Ṣajra\", and defeated Ibn Mardanīš before the walls of Moratalla, which he occupied. With a reduced following he attacked the fortress of Peñas de San Pedro and was captured. Ibn Mardanīš threatened to gouge out his eyes unless he ordered the surrender of Moratalla. He refused and his right eye was removed. Ibn Mardanīš then ordered Yūsuf's wife to surrender the castle or else see her husband blinded. She refused and Yūsuf's other eye was removed. Ibn Mardanīš then sent his prisoner to Xàtiva, where he died shortly thereafter in 1148 or 1149.\n\nIn June 1149, after the republic of Genoa had established colonies at both Almería and Tortosa, Ibn Mardanīš signed a ten-year truce with the republic, agreed to pay 15,000 Almoravid dinars (\"murābiṭūn\") in tribute, exempted the Genoese from tariffs and permitted the establishment of Genoese \"funduqs\" at Valencia and Dénia. A payment of 5,000 \"murābiṭūn\" was due immediately: 3,000 in cash and 2,000 in equivalent silks. The remaining 10,000 was owed over two years. This treaty is preserved in the Genoese \"Liber iurium\". According to the contemporary historian Caffaro, a similar treaty was signed in 1161. In January 1150, Ibn Mardanīš signed a treaty with the republic of Pisa, promising \"funduqs\" and a general safe-conduct for Pisan merchants, but requiring no payment of tribute.\n\nDuring \"Ḏū l-Qaʿdah\" 560 (September–October 1165), Ibn Mardanīš led a large army from Murcia to defend Lorca from an Almohad force advancing from the castle of Vélez. His troops were flanked by the Almohad force at a place called \"al-Fundūn\" in the valley of the Guadalentín.\n\n"}
{"id": "5289926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5289926", "title": "Ahmed Hulusi", "text": "Ahmed Hulusi\n\nAhmed Hulusi (born 1945 in Istanbul, Turkey) is an Islamic author from Turkey, whose works focus on philosophical and religious ideas.\n\nHe was born on 21 January 1945 in Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, and was named Ahmed, meaning ‘highly praised’, by his mother and Hulusi, meaning ‘sincere’, by his father. He spent the first 18 years of his life not following any particular religion, believing only in ‘a Creator’. Since every time he inquired about religion, he was told “do not question, just do as you are told”, he lived a seemingly ‘irreligious’ life. Three days after his father’s death, on 10 September 1963, unable to refuse his mother’s wish, he attended Friday prayer, where he felt an immense inspiration and desire to understand the reality of religion. That same day he decided to always maintain a state of ritual purity by performing ablution and committed to performing the prescribed daily prayers (salat).\n\nHe commenced his religious education by studying the eleven volumes of Sahih al-Bukhari and the whole of the Al-Kutub al-Sittah, two collections of Sunni hadiths published by the Turkish Directorate for Religious Affairs, and a translation of the Quran by Elmalılı, one of Turkey’s most eminent Quranic scholars. He then spent two years undertaking in depth studies of the modern sciences. This was then followed by an interval of intensive spiritual diets and retreats, leading him in 1965 to write his first book \"Revelations\" (\"Tecelliyat\"). This book is particularly significant for him, as it is an amalgamation of his unique ideas and theological viewpoints at the age of 21. Also in 1965, he journeyed alone to Mecca to fulfill his pilgrimage (hajj).\n\nContinuing to integrate the information in the Quran with the contemporary sciences, Ahmed Hulusi bases his understanding of religion on the system and order denoted in the Quran by the One named Allah and has committed himself to “reading” reality as disclosed by Muhammad. Hulusi focuses on the underlying unity of everything and the oneness of existence, which he refers to as Allah. He stresses understanding the spirit of the Qur'an and the Sunnah rather than taking them out of context. He shares his findings through his writings, all of which are available for free on his website. Having studied preeminent collections of Islamic Law and evaluated the works of many renowned Sufi saints (\"wali\") and scholars, he synthesizes his findings with scientific truths and presents them as an integrated system of rational reality.\n\nIn order to refrain from self-promotion, he has not put his surname on any of the books he has written over the last 40 years. He does not claim to be a guru or a teacher to anybody; on the contrary, he chooses to have very little contact with people, despite the large demand for and interest in his work. He was forced to put his photo on his books after a few impostors claiming to be Ahmed Hulusi started gathering and exploiting large crowds of people in Turkey.\n\nHe has never been a member of any political, social or religious organization, foundation or establishment. He has spent his life as a journalist researching Islamic mysticism, or Sufism, and the modern sciences.\n\nDue to the 28 February 1997 ‘postmodern coup’ in Turkey, Ahmed Hulusi and his wife, Cemile, moved to London, where they lived for a year, before settling in the USA, where they reside today.\n\nHe considers his teachings a spiritual understanding of Islam in a modern context. Based on Muhammad's teachings and eminent Sufi authors like Abdul Karim Jili, Abdul-Qadir Gilani, Muhyiddin ibn-Arabi, Imami Ghazali, and İbrahim Hakkı Erzurumi, he denies the idea of a deity/god to worship, claiming there is no separate external god, there is only the One, referred to as Allah in the Qur'an. His principle has always been, “Do not be a blind follower of anyone. In the light of Muhammad’s teachings, choose and walk your own path in life independently.” He recommends that people re-evaluate the original teachings of Muhammad and the Quran in the light of science, without depending on any intermediary forces. Every individual has the right, indeed, is obliged, to directly interact with the teachings of the universal system through Muhammad and shape their lives accordingly.\n\nDue to the nature of the universal system revealed to Muhammad, jobs and positions of a religious nature are illegitimate. The only person one must follow is Muhammad. Because of this, Ahmed Hulusi does not encourage anyone to become his ‘follower’. He prefers to live a relatively reclusive life in his small town and advises people to question his teachings and to do their own research. He says, “Don’t believe me; find and verify the truth for yourself.”\n\nAs long as they remain faithful to the original, all his works can be printed and distributed for free. All his works can be accessed and downloaded at www.ahmedhulusi.org\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22509814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22509814", "title": "Al-Qifti", "text": "Al-Qifti\n\nJamal al-Din abu al-Hasan Ali ibn Yusuf ibn Ibrahim ibn Abd al-Wahid al-Shaybani ( \"Jamāl al-Dīn Abū l-Ḥasan ʿAlī ibn Yūsuf ibn Ibrāhīm al-Shaybānī l-Qifṭī\", ca. 1172–1248) was an Egyptian Arab scholar, writer, patron, and administrator under the Ayyubid rulers of Aleppo. He is remembered today mainly for his \"History of Learned Men\".\n\n‘Alī al-Qifṭī, known as Ibn al-Qifti, was born in 568/1172 at Qift, Upper Egypt, the son of Yūsuf al-Qifṭī (b.548/1153) who held the judicial title \"al-Qāḍī al-Ashraf\" and grandson of Ibrāhīm ibn ‘Abd al-Wāḥid, who had been \"al-Qāḍī al-Awḥad\" in the Ayyūbid court. Ibn al-Qifti succeeded his father and grandfather into court administration but displayed scholarly inclinations. When the family left Qift in 1177, following the rising of a Fāṭimid pretender, his father took up official posts in Upper Egypt and ‘Alī completed his early education in Cairo.\n\nIn 583/1187 his father was appointed deputy to al-Qāḍī al-Fāḍil, chancellor and adviser to Ṣalāh al-Dīn at Jerusalem, and patron and benefactor of Maimonides, Al-Qifṭī spent many years studying and collecting material for his later works. When Ṣalāh al-Dīn died in 598/1201 and his brother, Malik al-‘Ādil, usurped his nephew’s position to occupy Jerusalem, Ibn al-Qifṭī’s father fled to Ḥarran into the service of Ṣalāh al-Dīn’s son Ashraf. Ibn al-Qifṭī sought patronage in Aleppo as secretary to the former governor of Jerusalem and Nablus, Fāris al-Din Maimūn al Qaṣrī, the then vizier to the Ayyubid emir Ṣalāh al-Dīn’s third son, Malik aẓ-Ẓāhir Ghāzi. He was recognised as an effective administrator of the fiefs and when the vizier died in 610/1214 aẓ-Ẓāhir appointed him ‘’khāzin’’, or Dīwān of Finance, despite his own preference for study. On aẓ-Ẓāhir’s death in 613/1216 al-Qifti retired but was re-appointed in 633/1236 by aẓ-Ẓāhir’s successor. He remained in office until 628/1231. According to his protégé and biographer, Yaqūt, writing before 624/1227 al-Qifti already held the honorific title \"al-Qāḍī 'l-Akram al-Wazir\" (most noble judge chief minister). After a five year sabbatical al-Qifṭī again resumed the office and held it up to his death in 646/1248.\n\nThroughout his life al-Qifṭī advocated scholarship and sought to pursue a literary career despite heavy constraints of high office. When Yaqūt had fled Mongol invasion to Aleppo, he had received shelter from al-Qifti, who had assisted him in the compilation of his great geographical and biographical encyclopedia, known as \"Irshad\". Yaqut lists al-Qifṭī's pre-620 works (some were then incomplete). Al-Ṣafadī copied this list in his \"Wāfī fi ‘l-Wafayāt\" and Al-Kutubī's \"Fawāt al-Wafayat\" (1196) borrowed from it, but his copy is corrupted by many errors.\n\nAl-Qifṭī wrote mainly historical works and of 26 recorded titles just two survive:\n\n\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "3147166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3147166", "title": "Ashley Whippet", "text": "Ashley Whippet\n\nAshley Whippet (ca. 1971 – 1985), a Whippet owned by Alex Stein of Ohio, was the first notable disc dog and the winner of three Canine Frisbee Disc World Championships.\n\nAshley first gained notoriety on August 5, 1974 when Stein, then a 19-year-old college student, smuggled him into Dodger Stadium during a nationally televised Monday night baseball game between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Cincinnati Reds. Stein jumped the fence and went onto the baseball field with Ashley, where he threw discs (Frisbees) for the dog to catch. The crowd was in awe at Ashley's disc-catching ability, as he ran up to 35 miles per hour and leaped 9 feet in the air to snag the Frisbees. The stunt was so novel that the game was stopped and Joe Garagiola continued to announce the flying disc action on the field. Finally, after eight minutes, Stein was escorted off the field and arrested. The nationally televised exhibition of Ashley's skill did much to fuel interest in the disc dog sport.\n\nThe next year, Stein helped to organize the first Frisbee Dog World Championship for flying-disc catching dogs and their handlers, which continued as an annual event. Stein and Ashley won the first three championships in 1975, 1976 and 1977. In those early years the Dog World Championship took place alongside the \"human\" Frisbee championships at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California. Eventually, it turned into a contest series and, in the early 1980s, was named the Ashley Whippet Invitational (AWI) in honor of Ashley.\n\nAshley's skills as a disc dog were featured in the 1977 documentary entitled \"Floating Free\", which was nominated for an Academy Award in the category of Best Live Action Short Film. The eleven-minute short was shot at the 1977 World Frisbee Championships and showcases the various events at the competition. \n\nIn 1977 Ashley performed at Super Bowl XI as the pre-game entertainment. He also performed at the White House for a young Amy Carter. \n\nAshley's Ice Cream is a popular ice cream shop located on the Connecticut shoreline named after Ashley Whippet. From the beginning, when it opened near Yale University, Ashley's celebrated the history of the Frisbee, which first gained popularity as a college craze on Yale's campus, where the students threw pie pans from the Frisbie Pie Company. Ashley's currently has 5 locations open, all of which are located in New Haven County. Their largest ice cream dish is served on a frisbee. It is called the Downside Watson. The Downside Watson is made with seven scoops of ice cream, nine toppings, and two bananas. Over the decades, many people have tried to consume an entire Downside Watson in one sitting, with the inevitable result that many people have stories about gastrointestinal distress caused by attempting to eat a Downside Watson. The shop has been voted Connecticut's best ice cream 14 years in a row. Ashley Whippet's favorite ice cream flavor from Ashley's Ice Cream was chocolate banana.\n"}
{"id": "10494220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10494220", "title": "Astrobotany", "text": "Astrobotany\n\nAstrobotany is an applied sub-discipline of botany that is the study of plants in space environments. It is a branch of astrobiology and botany.\n\nIt has been a subject of study that plants may be grown in outer space typically in a weightless but pressurized controlled environment in specific space gardens. In the context of human spaceflight, they can be consumed as food and/or provide a refreshing atmosphere. Plants can metabolize carbon dioxide in the air to produce valuable oxygen, and can help control cabin humidity. Growing plants in space may provide a psychological benefit to human spaceflight crews.\n\nThe first challenge in growing plants in space is how to get plants to grow without gravity. This runs into difficulties regarding the effects of gravity on root development, providing appropriate types of lighting, and other challenges. In particular, the nutrient supply to root as well as the nutrient biogeochemical cycles, and the microbiological interactions in soil-based substrates are particularly complex, but have been shown to make possible space farming in hypo- and micro-gravity.\n\nNASA plans to grow plants in space to help feed astronauts, and to provide psychological benefits for long-term space flight.\n\nThe search for vegetation on other planets began with Gavriil Tikhov, who attempted to detect extraterrestrial vegetation via analyzing the wavelengths of a planet's reflected light, or planetshine. Photosynthetic pigments, like chlorophylls on Earth, reflect light spectra that spike in the range of 700-750 nm. This pronounced spike is referred to as \"vegetation's red edge.\" It was thought that observing this spike in a reading of planetshine would signal a surface covered in green vegetation. Searching for extraterrestrial vegetation has been outcompeted by the search for microbial life on other planets or mathematical models to predict the viability of life on exoplanets.\n\nThe study of plant response in space environments is another subject of astrobotany research. In space, plants encounter unique environmental stressors not found on Earth including microgravity, ionizing radiation, and oxidative stress. Experiments have shown that these stressors cause genetic alterations in plant metabolism pathways. Changes in genetic expression have shown that plants respond on a molecular level to a space environment. Astrobotanical research has been applied to the challenges of creating life support systems both in space and on other planets, primarily Mars.\n\nRussian scientist Konstantin Tsiolkovsky was one of the first people to discuss using photosynthetic life as a resource in space agricultural systems. Speculation about plant cultivation in space has been around since the early 20th century. The term \"astrobotany\" was first used in 1945 by Russian astronomer and astrobiology pioneer Gavriil Adrianovich Tikhov. Tikhov is considered to be the father of astrobotany. Research in the field has been conducted both with growing Earth plants in space environments and searching for botanical life on other planets.\n\nThe first organisms in space were \"specially developed strains of seeds\" launched to on 9 July 1946 on a U.S. launched V-2 rocket. These samples were not recovered. The first seeds launched into space and successfully recovered were maize seeds launched on 30 July 1946. Soon followed rye and cotton. These early suborbital biological experiments were handled by Harvard University and the Naval Research Laboratory and were concerned with radiation exposure on living tissue. In 1971, 500 tree seeds (Loblolly pine, Sycamore, Sweetgum, Redwood, and Douglas fir) were flown around the Moon on Apollo 14. These Moon trees were planted and grown with controls back on Earth where no changes were detected.\n\nIn 1982, the crew of the Soviet Salyut 7 space station conducted an experiment, prepared by Lithuanian scientists (Alfonsas Merkys and others), and grew some Arabidopsis using Fiton-3 experimental micro-greenhouse apparatus, thus becoming the first plants to flower and produce seeds in space. A Skylab experiment studied the effects of gravity and light on rice plants. The SVET-2 Space Greenhouse successfully achieved seed to seed plant growth in 1997 aboard space station \"Mir\". Bion 5 carried \"Daucus carota\" and Bion 7 carried maize (aka corn).\n\nPlant research continued on the International Space Station. Biomass Production System was used on the ISS Expedition 4. The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) system was later used aboard ISS. Plants tested in Veggie before going into space included lettuce, Swiss chard, radishes, Chinese cabbage and peas. Red Romaine lettuce was grown in space on Expedition 40 which were harvested when mature, frozen and tested back on Earth. Expedition 44 members became the first American astronauts to eat plants grown in space on 10 August 2015, when their crop of Red Romaine was harvested. Since 2003 Russian cosmonauts have been eating half of their crop while the other half goes towards further research. In 2012, a sunflower bloomed aboard the ISS under the care of NASA astronaut Donald Pettit. In January 2016, US astronauts announced that a zinnia had blossomed aboard the ISS.\n\nin 2018 the Veggie-3 experiment was tested with plant pillows and root mats. One of the goals is to grow food for crew consumption. Crops tested at this time include cabbage, lettuce, and mizuna.\n\nPlants that have been grown in space include:\n\n\nSome plants, like tobacco and morning glory, have not been directly grown in space but have been subjected to space environments and then germinated and grown on Earth.\n\nAlgae was the first candidate for human-plant life support systems. Initial research in the 1950s and 1960s used \"Chlorella, Anacystis, Synechocystis, Scenedesmus, Synechococcus,\" and \"Spirulina\" species to study how photosynthetic organisms could be used for O2 and CO2 cycling in closed systems. Later research through Russia’s BIOS program and USA’s CELSS program investigated the use of higher plants to fulfill the roles of atmospheric regulators, waste recyclers, and food for sustained missions. The crops most commonly studied include starch crops such as wheat, potato, and rice; protein-rich crops such as soy, peanut, and common bean; and a host of other nutrition-enhancing crops like lettuce, strawberry, and kale. Tests for optimal growth conditions in closed systems have required research both into environmental parameters necessary for particular crops (such as differing light periods for short-day versus long-day crops) and cultivars that are a best-fit for life support system growth.\n\nTests of human-plant life support systems in space are relatively few compared to similar testing performed on Earth and micro-gravity testing on plant growth in space. The first life support systems testing performed in space included gas exchange experiments with wheat, potato, and giant duckweed (\"Spyrodela polyrhiza\"). Smaller scale projects, sometimes referred to as \"salad machines\", have been used to provide fresh produce to astronauts as a dietary supplement. Future studies have been planned to investigate the effects of keeping plants on the mental well-being of humans in confined environments.\n\nMore recent research has been focused on extrapolating these life support systems to other planets, primarily Martian bases. Interlocking closed systems called \"modular biospheres\" have been prototyped to support four- to five-person crews on the Martian surface. These encampments are designed as inflatable greenhouses and bases. They are anticipated to use Martian soils for growth substrate and wastewater treatment, and crop cultivars developed specifically for extraplanetary life. There has also been discussion of using the Martian moon Phobos as a resources base, potentially mining frozen water and carbon dioxide from the surface and eventually using hollowed craters for autonomous growth chambers that can be harvested during mining missions.\n\nThe study of plant research has yielded information useful to other areas of botany and horticulture. Extensive research into hydroponics systems was fielded successfully by NASA in both the CELSS and ALS programs, as well as the effects of increased photoperiod and light intensity for various crop species. Research also led to optimization of yields beyond what had been previously achieved by indoor cropping systems. Intensive studying of gas exchange and plant volatile concentrations in closed systems led to increased understanding of plant response to extreme levels of gases such as carbon dioxide and ethylene. Usage of LEDs in closed life support systems research also prompted the increased use of LEDs in indoor growing operations.\n\nSome experiments to do with plants include:\n\nSeveral experiments have been focused on how plant growth and distribution compares in micro-gravity, space conditions versus Earth conditions. This enables scientists to explore whether certain plant growth patterns are innate or environmentally driven. For instance, Allan H. Brown tested seedling movements aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia in 1983. Sunflower seedling movements were recorded while in orbit. They observed that the seedlings still experienced rotational growth and circumnation despite lack of gravity, showing these behaviors are built-in.\n\nOther experiments have found that plants have the ability exhibit gravitropism, even in low-gravity conditions. For instance, the ESA's European Modular Cultivation System enables experimentation with plant growth; acting as a miniature greenhouse, scientists aboard the International Space Station can investigate how plants react in variable-gravity conditions.The Gravi-1 experiment (2008) utilized the EMCS to study lentil seedling growth and amyloplast movement on the calcium-dependent pathways. The results of this experiment found that the plants were able to sense the direction of gravity even at very low levels. A later experiment with the EMCS placed 768 lentil seedlings in a centrifuge to stimulate various gravitational changes; this experiment, Gravi-2 (2014), displayed that plants change calcium signalling towards root growth while being grown in a several gravity levels.\n\nMany experiments have a more generalized approach in observing overall plant growth patterns as opposed to one specific growth behavior. One such experiment from the Canadian Space Agency, for example, found that white spruce seedlings grew differently in the anti-gravity space environment compared with Earth-bound seedlings; the space seedlings exhibited enhanced growth from the shoots and needles, and also had randomized amyloplast distribution compared with the Earth-bound control group.\n\nAstrobotany has had several acknowledgements in science fiction literature and film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13250052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13250052", "title": "Baik Bong", "text": "Baik Bong\n\nBaik Bong () is a North Korean author known for writing the official biography of Kim Il-sung.\n\nThe first comprehensive biography of Kim Il-sung was published in Korean in North Korea in 1968. It was called \"Minjogŭi t'aeyang Kim Il-sŏng changgun\" (\"Sun of the People, General Kim Il-sung\"). Although it was most likely written by a collective, it appeared under the name of Baik Bong. Before that, hagiography of Kim Il-sung had been identified with Han Sorya, but after he was purged, hagiography conventionally no longer appeared under the name of any one author. Baik's biography was published by the party in two volumes. It covered Kim Il-sung's life up to the end of 1967.\n\nA new version was Baik's biography was published in August 1972 as \"Ilyu haebang ŭi kusŏng Kim Il-sŏng wŏnsu\" (\"Marshal Kim Il-sung, Liberator of Mankind\"), prompted by the fact that the nascent \"Juche\" ideology had been attributed to Kim Il-sung from his youth, which had to be written into the story.\n\nA three-volume biography followed. The biography recounts his successes in the fight for national independence. During the 1960s and 1970s, P'yŏngyang began a massive campaign to publish the works and feats of Kim Il-sung in several languages in order to promote its \"Juche\" ideology throughout the world (and in the third world in particular). The first volume is titled \"From Birth to Triumphant Return to Homeland,\" the second volume \"From Building Democratic Korea to Chollima Flight,\" and the third volume \"From Independent National Economy to 10-Point Political Programme.\" It has since become \"the standard DPRK biography\" of Kim Il-sung.\n\nBaik devoted much of his work in the official biography to recount Kim Il-sung's struggle against the Japanese occupiers. Factual accuracy of many such anti-Japanese tales has been questioned. Baik also omits any mention of Kim Il-sung's association with the Northeastern People's Revolutionary Army. It has also been suggested that \"Baik Bong\" is a pseudonym and that the writer lives in Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2747470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2747470", "title": "Biological thermodynamics", "text": "Biological thermodynamics\n\nBiological thermodynamics is the quantitative study of the energy transductions that occur in or between living organisms, structures, and cells and of the nature and function of the chemical processes underlying these transductions. Biological thermodynamics may address the question of whether the benefit associated with any particular phenotypic trait is worth the energy investment it requires.\n\nGerman-British medical doctor and biochemist Hans Krebs' 1957 book \"Energy Transformations in Living Matter\" (written with Hans Kornberg) was the first major publication on the thermodynamics of biochemical reactions. In addition, the appendix contained the first-ever published thermodynamic tables, written by Kenneth Burton, to contain equilibrium constants and Gibbs free energy of formations for chemical species, able to calculate biochemical reactions that had not yet occurred.\n\nNon-equilibrium thermodynamics has been applied for explaining how biological organisms can develop from disorder. Ilya Prigogine developed methods for the thermodynamic treatment of such systems. He called these systems dissipative systems, because they are formed and maintained by the dissipative processes that exchange energy between the system and its environment, and because they disappear if that exchange ceases. It may be said that they live in symbiosis with their environment. Energy transformations in biology are dependent primarily on photosynthesis. The total energy captured by photosynthesis in green plants from the solar radiation is about 2 x 10 joules of energy per year. Annual energy captured by photosynthesis in green plants is about 4% of the total sunlight energy that reaches Earth. The energy transformations in biological communities surrounding hydrothermal vents are exceptions; they oxidize sulfur, obtaining their energy via chemosynthesis rather than photosynthesis.\n\nThe field of biological thermodynamics is focused on principles of chemical thermodynamics in biology and biochemistry. Principles covered include the first law of thermodynamics, the second law of thermodynamics, Gibbs free energy, statistical thermodynamics, reaction kinetics, and on hypotheses of the origin of life. Presently, biological thermodynamics concerns itself with the study of internal biochemical dynamics as: ATP hydrolysis, protein stability, DNA binding, membrane diffusion, enzyme kinetics, and other such essential energy controlled pathways. In terms of thermodynamics, the amount of energy capable of doing work during a chemical reaction is measured quantitatively by the change in the Gibbs free energy. The physical biologist Alfred Lotka attempted to unify the change in the Gibbs free energy with evolutionary theory.\n\nThe sun is the primary source of energy for living organisms. Some living organisms like plants need sunlight directly while other organisms like humans can acquire energy from the sun indirectly. There is however evidence that some bacteria can thrive in harsh environments like Antarctica as evidence by the blue-green algae beneath thick layers of ice in the lakes. No matter what the type of living species, all living organisms must capture, transduce, store, and use energy to live.\n\nThe relationship between the energy of the incoming sunlight and its wavelength or frequency is given by\n\nwhere \"h\" is the Planck constant (6.63x10Js) and \"c\" is the speed of light (2.998x10 m/s). Plants trap this energy from the sunlight and undergo photosynthesis, effectively converting solar energy into chemical energy. To transfer the energy once again, animals will feed on plants and use the energy of digested plant materials to create biological macromolecules.\n\nThe biological evolution may be explained through a thermodynamic theory. The four laws of thermodynamics are used to frame the biological theory behind evolution. The first law of thermodynamics states that states that energy can not be created or destroyed. No life can create energy but must obtain it through its environment. The second law of thermodynamics states that energy can be transformed and that occurs everyday in lifeforms. As organisms take energy from their environment they can transform it into useful energy. This is the foundation of tropic dynamics. \n\nThe general example is that the open system can be defined as any ecosystem that moves toward maximizing the dispersal of energy. All things strive towards maximum entropy production, which in terms of evolution, occurs in changes in DNA to increase biodiversity. Thus, diversity can be linked to the second law of thermodynamics. Diversity can also be argued to be a diffusion process that diffuses toward a dynamic equilibrium to maximize entropy. Therefore, thermodynamics can explain the direction and rate of evolution along with the direction and rate of succession. \n\nThe First Law of Thermodynamics is a statement of the conservation of energy; though it can be changed from one form to another, energy can be neither created nor destroyed. From the first law, a principle called Hess's Law arises. Hess’s Law states that the heat absorbed or evolved in a given reaction must always be constant and independent of the manner in which the reaction takes place. Although some intermediate reactions may be endothermic and others may be exothermic, the total heat exchange is equal to the heat exchange had the process occurred directly. This principle is the basis for the calorimeter, a device used to determine the amount of heat in a chemical reaction. Since all incoming energy enters the body as food and is ultimately oxidized, the total heat production may be estimated by measuring the heat produced by the oxidation of food in a calorimeter. This heat is expressed in kilocalories, which are the common unit of food energy found on nutrition labels.\n\nThe Second Law of Thermodynamics is concerned primarily with whether or not a given process is possible. The Second Law states that no natural process can occur unless it is accompanied by an increase in the entropy of the universe. Stated differently, an isolated system will always tend to disorder. Living organisms are often mistakenly believed to defy the Second Law because they are able to increase their level of organization. To correct this misinterpretation, one must refer simply to the definition of systems and boundaries. A living organism is an open system, able to exchange both matter and energy with its environment. For example, a human being takes in food, breaks it down into its components, and then uses those to build up cells, tissues, ligaments, etc. This process increases order in the body, and thus decreases entropy. However, humans also 1) conduct heat to clothing and other objects they are in contact with, 2) generate convection due to differences in body temperature and the environment, 3) radiate heat into space, 4) consume energy-containing substances (i.e., food), and 5) eliminate waste (e.g., carbon dioxide, water, and other components of breath, urine, feces, sweat, etc.). When taking all these processes into account, the total entropy of the greater system (i.e., the human and her/his environment) increases. When the human ceases to live, none of these processes (1-5) take place, and any interruption in the processes (esp. 4 or 5) will quickly lead to morbidity and/or mortality.\n\nIn biological systems, in general energy and entropy change together. Therefore, it is necessary to be able to define a state function that accounts for these changes simultaneously. This state function is the Gibbs Free Energy, \"G\".\n\nwhere: \nThe change in Gibbs Free Energy can be used to determine whether a given chemical reaction can occur spontaneously. If ∆\"G\" is negative, the reaction can occur spontaneously. Likewise, if ∆\"G\" is positive, the reaction is nonspontaneous. Chemical reactions can be “coupled” together if they share intermediates. In this case, the overall Gibbs Free Energy change is simply the sum of the ∆\"G\" values for each reaction. Therefore, an unfavorable reaction (positive ∆\"G\") can be driven by a second, highly favorable reaction (negative ∆\"G\" where the magnitude of ∆\"G\" > magnitude of ∆\"G\"). For example, the reaction of glucose with fructose to form sucrose has a ∆\"G\" value of +5.5 kcal/mole. Therefore, this reaction will not occur spontaneously. The breakdown of ATP to form ADP and inorganic phosphate has a ∆\"G\" value of -7.3 kcal/mole. These two reactions can be coupled together, so that glucose binds with ATP to form glucose-1-phosphate and ADP. The glucose-1-phosphate is then able to bond with fructose yielding sucrose and inorganic phosphate. The ∆\"G\" value of the coupled reaction is -1.8 kcal/mole, indicating that the reaction will occur spontaneously. This principle of coupling reactions to alter the change in Gibbs Free Energy is the basic principle behind all enzymatic action in biological organisms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23015263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23015263", "title": "Carlos Fitzcarrald", "text": "Carlos Fitzcarrald\n\nCarlos Fermín Fitzcarrald (1862 – 9 July 1897) was a Peruvian rubber baron. He was born in San Luis, Ancash. \n\nFitzcarrald was the oldest son of an Irish-American sailor who later became a trader and married a Peruvian wife. He became established as a rubber baron in the late 19th century. Determined to find a way to transport rubber out of the Madre de Dios region, he exploited native workers. He forced them under pain of death to dismantle and transport a ship over a mountain during the turn-of-the-20th-century rubber boom in the Amazon Basin.\n\nStarting in 1894, he explored the Madre de Dios region of BAP Fitzcarrald in Lake Sandoval, Madre de Dios, Peru. He founded the City of Puerto Maldonado and explored the area that is now the Manu Biosphere Reserve. To achieve this, it was necessary to transport his steam ship piece by piece over the mountains to the Madre de Dios basin.\n\nFitzcarrald discovered a short passage overland between the Mishagua River, a tributary of the Urubamba, and the Manu, a tributary of the Madre de Dios River. The former leads into the Ucayali River. The Isthmus of Fitzcarrald was later named for him, as discovery of this route enabled transport of rubber from the Madre de Dios region. It was transferred to ships on the Mishagua, which could reach the Urubamba, the Ucayali River and thereby down the Amazon to markets and Atlantic ports for export. \n\nHis expeditions into the Madre de Dios region are considered to be the root of the modern-day divide between the local Yine and Mashco Piro peoples. The Yine are the descendants of the natives that Fitzcarrald forced to work for him, while the Mascho are the descendants of the natives that fled following Fitzcarrald's arrival.\n\nHe died at age 35 when his ship \"Contamana\" sank in Urubamba in an accident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36917019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36917019", "title": "Cleombrotus of Ambracia", "text": "Cleombrotus of Ambracia\n\nCleombrotus (later referred to as Cleombrotus of Ambracia; ) is a young man mentioned in Plato's \"Phaedo\" as one of two young men notably absent when Socrates drank the hemlock. This is his only mention in Plato, but a later tradition added that he was from Ambracia; Callimachus explains that Cleombrotus committed suicide in a way that caused a debate still held in the time of Michel de Montaigne—whether his suicide, leaping into the ocean to enter the life of the spirits after reading the \"Phaedo\", was foolish or not.\nCallimachus's epigram, as translated by H.W. Tytler reads,\n\n\"Cleombrotus high on a rock, <br>\nAbove Ambracia flood, <br>\nBade sol adieu, and as he spoke, <br> \nPlunged headlong into the flood.\n\n\"From no mischance the leap he took,<br>\nBut sought the realms beneath,<br>\nBecause he read in Plato's book, <br>\nThat souls live after death.\"\n"}
{"id": "3503745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3503745", "title": "Cleveland child abuse scandal", "text": "Cleveland child abuse scandal\n\nThe Cleveland child abuse scandal was a 1987 wave of suspected child sexual abuse cases in Cleveland, England.\n\nAt this time, the administrative county of Cleveland, established in 1974 from parts of Yorkshire and County Durham in the Teesside area, included four main towns: Stockton-on-Tees, Hartlepool, Middlesbrough and Redcar. It ceased to exist in 1996.\n\nIn the years prior to the scandal, levels of reported child abuse in the Cleveland area were consistent with those of other parts of the United Kingdom. However, in 1987, during the period of February to July, many children living in Cleveland were removed from their homes by social service agencies and diagnosed as sexually abused. The 121 diagnoses were made by two paediatricians at a Middlesbrough hospital, Marietta Higgs and Geoffrey Wyatt, using the later-discredited diagnostic of reflex anal dilation. When there were not enough foster homes in which to place the allegedly abused children, social services began to house the children in a ward at the local hospital. \n\nLater, the test being used to establish child abuse was contested by the area police surgeon, and cooperation between the social workers, police and hospital doctors involved in diagnosis began to disintegrate. In addition, there was public concern regarding the practices being used by the local social service agency, such as the removal of children from their homes in the middle of the night. In May 1987, parents marched from the hospital where their children were being held to the local newspaper. The resulting media coverage caused the social service agency's practices to receive public scrutiny and criticism. In response, the Butler-Sloss report was commissioned by the Secretary of State for Social Services in July 1987 and published in 1988. The report was led by Elizabeth Butler-Sloss and it concluded that most of the diagnoses were incorrect. As a result, 94 of the 121 children were returned to their homes.\n\nOn 14 October 1991, the Children Act 1989 was implemented in full as a result of the Cleveland child abuse scandal and other child related events that preceded it. A television documentary called \"The Death of Childhood\" was broadcast in 1997 and alleged that \"independent experts under the guidance of the Department of Health later found that at least 70 per cent of the diagnoses\" were correct. According to the documentary, two years after the scandal a number of children were again referred to social services and determined to be at risk for child abuse. In February 2007, the Chief Medical Officer, who was the regional medical officer at the time of the scandal, said that \"mistakes were made\" A few days later, two of the children who had been the focus of the scandal asked the Middlesbrough police for an investigation of their 1987 experience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4249665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4249665", "title": "Daemonite", "text": "Daemonite\n\nThe Daemonites are a fictional alien race in the Wildstorm Universe. They were created by Jim Lee and first appeared in \"WildC.A.T.s.\" #1 (August 1992).\n\nDaemonites are reptilian aliens from the planet Daemon, who are capable of possessing host bodies. Daemonites need to possess a host to survive on planets with a climate different from Daemon, like Earth (though a deal with the D'rahn eliminated this weakness from all Daemonites that resided on Earth at the time). When possessing a host, the Daemonite has access to all abilities that host has. A Daemonite can change his host into his true, Daemonite form, but can only maintain this form for a short period of time.\n\nSome Daemonites, particularly the more elite, are also avid shape-changers capable of taking on the physical form of whoever or whatever they see fit at will. Some of the stronger members of their race can also resume the semblance of inorganic substances e.i. metals, granules, liquids; in order to add to their own deadliness, even able to alternate while possessing a host. Albeit changing back rather quickly soon afterwards.\n\nDaemonites can survive for millennia and are possibly even immortal. They are capable of regenerating missing limbs and quickly recover from serious injuries able to heal from destroyed organs, critical injuries and heavy brain damage, though the healing capacity varies from Daemonite to Daemonite and few to most lack the capability to survive a destroyed head or brain. healing processes can be accelerated while within a host body as well.\n\nSome Daemonites even have a capacity for chronokinesis, having taught it to Voodoo of the WildC.A.Ts during her recovery process.\n\nHigher born Daemonite class' akin to Kherubim lords hold a plethora of new and exotic attributes open to them, This particular species genus are called Daemonite Royalty. This upper tier possess a number of traits that make them superior to their weaker kin such as complete bio-molecular physical control, hive mind collectives, multi-hosting and vast mental and physical energy manipulation. Four members of this group include Helspont, Defile, Hightower and S'Ryn each possessing hosts of unique abilities all their own.\n\nThe true form of the Daemonites differs depending on the artist, but generally includes dark green skin, long sharp claws, sharp teeth, and a hunched posture.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, which merges the Wildstorm universe, Daemonites take on a whole new look and feel while retaining many old aspects it shared in the Wildstorm imprint. For starters, The Daemonites have become a telepathic hive intelligence capable of not only reading and sharing thoughts between other Daemonites and their respective hosts. But are also avid mentalists capable of probing minds and having open mind to mind communications with other individuals, even being able to psionically track targets via their unique neural signal's.\n\nOther proclivities include an enhancement of their Metamorphosis capabilities to enable the phasing through solid matter with ease, akin to a martian.\n\nMillennia ago, the Daemonites discovered interstellar travel and started to conquer the universe. Their ability to possess other species gave them a distinct advantage over most species, allowing infiltration and survival in almost any environment. Their rise to power was unopposed until they encountered the Kherubim. The Kherubim were a noble race of nearly immortal warriors. Despite the Daemonites' ability to possess the Kherubim, the Kherubim's technology allowed them to detect possessed individuals. The war raged for millennia.\n\nA Daemonite vessel fought a Kherubim vessel near Earth, thousands of years ago. Both spaceships were damaged and crashlanded on Earth. The Daemonites decided to conquer this world and use its population as host bodies, while the Kherubim wanted to defend humanity. The Daemonite-Kherubim War inspired many tales of gods, demons, angels and monsters. Most of the Daemonites organised themselves as the Cabal and focused on the goal of Daemonite Reunification: a return to Daemon. They were opposed by multiple heroes, such as Axel Brass and the WildC.A.Ts.\n\nUnbeknownst to those stranded on Earth, the Kherubim won the war and imposed heavy reparations on Daemon. Daemonite society went bankrupt trying to pay and many Daemonites migrated to prosperous Khera, but were confined to ghettos.\n\nWhen the Daemonites on Earth found out, many of them ceased their quest for Reunification. Some settled down, others became mercenaries and others again, like Lord Helspont, now focused on increasing their own power and wealth. Helspont finds a 'sleeper ship' of Daemonites and manages to recruit them to his cause. Most of these Daemonites are slain by human police officers.\n\nLater, the Daemonite Lord Helspont found a Kheran World Shaper Engine on Earth and discovered that the Kherans were sending Shaper Engines across the universe to land on planets and turn them into ideal habitats for Kherubim. He also discovered that one of these engines had created new races across the universe, including the humans and Daemonites.\n\nSince DC Comics' The New 52 relaunch in 2011, the Daemonites have been featured in several series. Most notably, they play a central role in both the \"Voodoo\" and \"Grifter\" ongoing series, both featuring title characters who originated in the Wildstorm Universe. The Daemonites have also been featured in the relaunched \"Stormwatch\", \"Superman\", \"Demon Knights\" and \"Hawkman\" series. In \"Demon Knights\", they obliterate every incarnation of Camelot and attempt to slay Merlin to stop him creating them.\n\nWith the coming of the DC Rebirth publishing, Wildstorm characters have now undergone extensive revamp, once again with characters such as the WildC.A.T.S and Stormwatch being relegated to their own separate continuum. In the new continuity written and illustrated by Warren Ellis and Jon Davis-Hunt, The initial Daemonites appear on site at an old Internal Operations safe house where a firefight ensued between two separate factions who have powerful ties to the world at large. They would encounter another familiar face in Lucy Blaze who was dispatched by Stormwatch's ground division, who initially reacted with hostility to their presence. Said Daemonite commented that they were only observing, seeing that something new was going on and that Lucy should't interfere with it before fading away into the shadows.\n\nLittle is known about Daemonite culture. The Daemonites on Earth are ruled by three Lords or Royalty as coined by some of them. Most Daemonites on Earth are aggressive and completely devoted to the cause of Reunification. A process in which all existent Daemonites throughout the universe congregate at central focal point where a Lord resides to begin conquest of native worlds. \n\nOn Khera, the WildC.A.Ts encountered Daemonite civilians whose behaviour was very much like human behaviour. The Daemonites on Khera seemed to have a more tribal structure, but this could be a result of being confined to low-tech ghettos. After encountering peaceful Daemonites on Khera, the WildC.A.Ts have encountered several peaceful Daemonites on Earth as well.\n\nThe Daemonites on Khera showed WildC.A.Ts-member Voodoo, part Daemonite herself, rituals where Daemonites possessed other Daemonites. This ritual transferred memories, emotions and knowledge between Daemonites and forged a strong bond between Daemonites.\n\nThe strongest of Daemonites possess can grow into a host of special powers ranging to metamorphosis, structure merging, time manipulation, some psychic powers, etc. While the Daemonite Royalty come to withhold entirely unique powers and abilities all their own. Likewise, it is unknown if a Daemonite is either born into or becomes one\n\nWhile very little is known of the Daemonite social circle. There seem to be two main castes present within their species.\n\nDaemonites prefer to use their own natural abilities in battle, but their technology is very advanced. They have spaceships capable of interstellar flight. Nanotechnology allows them to create highly advanced weaponry in a short period of time. Mister Majestic discovered a Daemonite-built portal into the Bleed, allowing them to enter alternate dimensions.\n\nDaemonites on Earth often wear special \"stealth-suits\", hiding them from most forms of detection. Others wear \"flash-suits\", which are armoured and possess built-in weaponry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2026966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026966", "title": "De bonis non administratis", "text": "De bonis non administratis\n\nDe bonis non administratis, Latin for \"of goods not administered,\" is a legal term for assets remaining in an estate after the death or removal of the estate administrator. The second administrator is called the administrator \"de bonis non\" and distributes the remaining assets. In the Uniform Probate Code, these titles have been replaced by successor personal representative.\n\nThe most common cause of a grant of \"de bonis non\" by a court is where the administrator dies. However, it can also be granted in cases where the chain of representation is broken. Such would happen, for example, when the executor of a will has obtained probate, but then dies intestate. (Normally, if the executor dies testate, the representation passes to the executor of the first executor's estate upon probate of the latter's own will. This is governed by Section 7 of the Administration of Estates Act 1925 in the United Kingdom.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34066881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34066881", "title": "Death of Jeannie Saffin", "text": "Death of Jeannie Saffin\n\nJeanne Lucille Saffin (20 March 1921 – 23 September 1982) was a British woman whose death from fire in 1982 is cited by paranormal researchers and authors as an example of spontaneous human combustion, and is reported to be the most recent suspected case in the UK. Aspects of the reports made immediately after her injury and death apparently supported the conclusion that her death was due to spontaneous human combustion; John Heymer devoted a chapter of his 1996 book \"The Entrancing Flame\" to the case. However, later research has cast doubt on some of the evidence and refutes the claims that her injuries were caused by spontaneous human combustion.\n\nJeannie Saffin was born in Edmonton, London with birth defects that led to mental handicaps which reduced her abilities to those of a child. She was 61 years old at the time of her death. On the evening of 15 September 1982, she was at the family's home in Edmonton with her father, Jack Saffin, and her brother-in-law, Don Carroll. Jeannie was sitting with her father in the kitchen. Jack Saffin was looking away from Jeannie when his attention was drawn to his daughter as she was suddenly on fire. Jack Saffin and his son-in-law Don Carroll put out the fire using water from the kitchen, and then called for an ambulance. Jeannie was treated en route to the hospital by paramedics, admitted to North Middlesex Hospital, and then transferred to the burn unit at Mount Vernon Hospital, where she was treated until her death caused by \"broncho-pneumonia due to burns\" eight days after the original fire and injury. Relatives suggested at the inquest that the death could have been a case of spontaneous human combustion, but the coroner, Dr John Burton, said there was \"no such thing\" and gave an open verdict.\n\nSaffin's case has been held as an example of spontaneous human combustion by paranormal researchers and authors. Jack Saffin's son-in-law, Don Carroll, who was in the home at the time of the fire, has stated that Jeannie had flames coming from her mouth, and made roaring noises like a dragon. Both Carroll and Jack Saffin have repeatedly claimed that prior to Jeannie being lit aflame there was no source of ignition in the kitchen except the pilot light on the gas stove. Carroll also states that Jeannie's clothes were unburned and that there was no smoke damage in the kitchen. The interpretation of Heymer and Arnold's works have led to Saffi'’s case as being quoted as proof of spontaneous human combustion by researchers and authors anxious to make the case for spontaneous human combustion.\n\nAn alternate view debunks the evidence pointing towards Saffin being an example of spontaneous human combustion. Proponents of the combustion theory have stated that Saffin \"came to be burned inside unburned clothes,\" However, later research noted by Joe Nickell suggests that Saffin's clothes were burned. In a written statement given at the time of Saffin's death, 12 years before the interview conducted by Heymer, Carroll stated that Saffin's clothes were severely burned. Also, police reports indicated that upon their arrival, constables witnessed Jeannie's clothing burning and removed it after putting out the flames.\n\nThe source of the flames has also been scrutinized by skeptics. Carroll has stated that the flames came from Saffin's mouth; however, the medical evidence does not support this conclusion: Saffin's mouth was undamaged, according to hospital records. Medical records also support the conclusion that the majority of Saffin's burns were the result of contact with burning or melted nylon from her clothing. The burning and melting patterns of her nylon clothing could make it appear that the fire was coming from inside Saffin's body.\n\nOpponents of the spontaneous human combustion theory also have a potential explanation for the source of the flame that ignited Saffin's clothing, causing the fire. Carroll made several statements that the only source of flame in the kitchen was the pilot light for the stove. In one interview he specifically noted that Jack Saffin's pipe was unlit and filled with fresh tobacco. Nickell outlines a plausible explanation, that Jack Saffin knocked out used tobacco from his pipe in order to refill it, and that while doing so, caused lit embers of pipe tobacco to land on Jeannie's clothing. Nickell suggests this is even more likely, because at the time of the fire, the kitchen window and door were open, causing a cross breeze. Pipe embers, carried by the breeze and then landing on Saffin's flammable nylon clothing, would easily catch fire and cause the severe burns found on Saffin's body at autopsy.\n"}
{"id": "39043305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39043305", "title": "Dysfunctional Systems", "text": "Dysfunctional Systems\n\nDysfunctional Systems is a visual novel created by Canadian studio Dischan Media. The story follows Winter Harrison, a \"mediator\"-in-training, as she attempts to resolve chaotic situations in different worlds. The first of several planned episodes, \"Learning to Manage Chaos\", was released on April 4, 2013 In February 2014, Dischan launched a Kickstarter campaign to raise funds for another two episodes of the story. Although the campaign met and exceeded its funding goals, the project was cancelled on January 2, 2015.\n\nThe series was restarted with the release of a prequel episode, \"Dysfunctional Systems: Orientation\" on July 24, 2017.\n\n\"Dysfunctional Systems\" is a visual novel series, where the player reads text to progress the story. At certain points, the novel will present the player with a choice of different dialogue or actions for the series protagonist, Winter Harrison, which will affect events and their consequences. The novel includes a \"codex\" feature, where the reader can find background information on the current world, such as its geography and politics, as well as topics related to the problems the world is experiencing. The novel also implements a \"profile\" feature. The choices made during a play-through of an episode can be saved in a profile, such that their consequences can be carried over to the next episode.\n\nIn \"Dysfunctional Systems\", Earth bears a utopian society with a school called \"School Mediātōrum\", composed of individuals called \"mediators\". Mediators are humans who resolve chaotic situations in other worlds. Though these worlds exist in different planes, and range in themes from \"dystopian, to futuristic or fantastical\", it is believed that the chaos of any one world can adversely affect Earth as well.\n\nThe protagonist of the series, Winter Harrison, is a 14-year-old mediator-in-training. A moral individual, she still finds the concept of \"other worlds\" hard to grasp. On her second mission (the focus of \"Episode 1\") she is paired with Cyrus Addington, a tough and infamous senior mediator, to act as her guide and mentor.\n\nIn the first episode, Winter and Cyrus travel to Sule, a sporadically-progressing industrial planet. They arrive in Brighton, a poor and minor country on Sule. There, the two find that the President of Brighton is attempting to negotiate his society's freedom from its oppressor, the wealthy state of Gabrea. The key object of his threat is an untested nuclear bomb, waiting to be launched at Gabrea via intercontinental ballistic missile.\n\nCyrus devises a plan to contain the chaos: to assassinate the President and have him declared a martyr. Cyrus' plan horrifies Winter; at this point, the player can choose whether Winter will go along with Cyrus' plan, or to rebel against him and try to reason with the President instead. If Cyrus' plan is taken, the President is killed and his government decides to launch the weapon at Gabrea. If Winter's plan is taken, she and Cyrus manage to convince the President to change his mind and fire his weapon into a nearby sea as a warning shot instead.\n\nHowever, in both cases, the detonation of the weapon goes badly wrong, igniting the atmosphere and completely destroying Sule. Winter and Cyrus are teleported back to the school on Earth just in time, where they are immediately treated for radiation poisoning that they had obtained before Sule's destruction. Winter is carried back to her room, where she recounts to her room-mate Waverly of Sule's demise. The next day, Waverly fends off well-wishers from seeing Winter, then helps her to her debriefing, ending the episode.\n\nIn Dischan's earlier work, \"Juniper's Knot\", the player can unlock bonus art featuring the protagonists of the story with two other characters, Winter and Cyrus.\n\nOn January 5, 2013, Dischan leader Jeremy Miller announced the company's first series of visual novels, titled \"Dysfunctional Systems\". On June 5, 2013, Dischan posted Episode 1 of \"Dysfunctional Systems\" on Steam Greenlight. On September 26, 2013, Episode 1 was released on Steam.\n\nDespite reporting \"decent sales\" of Episode 1, Dischan admitted that the project was not a financial success. Dischan turned to the crowd-funding site Kickstarter to raise funds for the production of the second and third installments of the novel. The campaign was opened for funding in February 2014, with the goal of raising C$49,000. By the end of the campaign in March 2014, the campaign had successfully raised C$67,450. Because the original goal was exceeded, Dischan stated that it would add more characters and environments to the second and third episodes than they had originally intended, as well as producing a bonus visual novel depicting Winter's first week as a mediator-in-training.\n\nThe project was cancelled in a January 2, 2015 announcement by Dischan and began issuing partial refunds through Kickstarter to backers.\n\nThe soundtrack to Episode 1, written and performed by Kristian \"CombatPlayer\" Jensen, was released on 4 April 2013. It is distributed with Episode 1 and can also be played in the jukebox within the game.\n\n\"Dysfunctional Systems - Episode 1\" received positive reviews from critics, with the primary issue raised being its brief length.\n\nNadia Oxford of Gamezebo scored the game 4/5 stars, commending the art, music and story, but criticizing the slow pace and lack of player interaction overall.\n\nAndrew Barker of RPGFan scored the game 80/100, saying that while the art was good and the setting and characters showed promise, the game is \"held back\" by its short length and he recommended players to hold off on purchasing it until the entire game was released.\n\nKristina Pino of Japanator said that while she liked the artwork, the story \"[took] a while to really get moving\", and she did not feel a large amount of interest in seeing what happened next, also calling it too short.\n\n"}
{"id": "12059115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12059115", "title": "Eleazar Avaran", "text": "Eleazar Avaran\n\n\"For other people named Eleazer. see: Eleazar (name)\"\n\nEleazar Avaran, also known as Eleazar Maccabeus, Eleazar Hachorani/Chorani (Hebrew: אלעזר המכבי \"Eleazar HaMakabi\", אלעזר החורני \"Eleazar HaChorani\"; d. 162 BC) was the fourth son of Mattathias and the younger brother of Judas Maccabeus. He was killed at the Battle of Beth-zechariah () during the Maccabean revolt.\n\nLittle is known About Eleazar, except his heroic death as was told. According to the scroll of Antichus, his father saw in him a Zealot among zealots, like Pinhas. In it is told that Eleazar read from the Tanakh in front of the people just before the last battle began in .\n\nAccording to , during the Battle of Beit Zechariah, Eleazar identified a war elephant that he believed to carry the Seleucid King Antiochus V, due to the special armor the elephant wore. He decided to endanger his life by attacking the elephant and thrusting a spear into its belly. The dead elephant then collapsed upon Eleazar, killing him as well. \nDespite this heroic effort, the smaller Jewish army was defeated in the battle. Josephus wrote that Eleazar, though killing many enemy soldiers, did not gain any real effect besides the name he made for himself. In another variation of this story which appears in the Megillat Antiochus, Eleazar's body is discovered after sinking in the excrement of an elephant.\n\nAll of the members of the family of Mattathias were given nicknames in addition to their personal names as can be seen in (For example, Judas was given the name 'ha'Makabi', meaning 'the Hammer'.) Eleazar was given the name 'Avaran', which has been taken to mean 'the Piercer' (in reference to his death) or 'to be white' (referring to his light complexion).\n\nEleazar's death was a popular subject for art in the Middle Ages, where it was given a typological significance as prefiguring Christ's sacrifice of himself for mankind. The chance to portray an elephant was also welcomed by artists, although as most had never seen one, the results are often very strange. It is also portrayed in a painting of 19th century French artist Gustave Doré.\n\nThe Israeli settlement, Elazar, in Gush Etzion, near the site of the battle of Beth-zechariah, is named after him. Also there are streets named after him in Jerusalem and in Tel Aviv.\n\n"}
{"id": "14005931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005931", "title": "Emanuel Jose Sanchez", "text": "Emanuel Jose Sanchez\n\nEmanuel Jose Sanchez (September 21, 1982 – July 23, 2005) was a Puerto Rican jockey competing in American Thoroughbred horse racing.\n\nBorn in Carolina, Puerto Rico, Sanchez emigrated to the United States where he worked as an exercise rider at Bowie Training Center in Bowie, Maryland and had raced at other Thoroughbred racetracks. In the summer of 2005 he was working as an apprentice jockey at Colonial Downs racetrack in New Kent County, Virginia. \n\nLike many jockeys, Emanuel Jose Sanchez struggled to maintain his weight to meet the requirements for racing. According to Christian Olmo, a fellow Puerto Rican jockey and close friend who grew up with Sanchez, he had no visions of grandeur but had a passion for riding horses. Sanchez won one race during his short career in the United States. Riding the mare Mark Me Special he captured the 7th race at Colonial Downs on June 19, 2005. According to the Washington Post, \"Sanchez was so unsteady after crossing the finish line at Colonial Downs, he needed help guiding the horse into the winner's circle\". On a hot Friday, July 22, shortly after riding a horse named Bear On Tour in the fourth race at Colonial Downs, Sanchez was found collapsed on the floor of the shower in the jockey's room. Rushed to Richmond Community Hospital in Richmond, Virginia, he died on Saturday morning from the effects of dehydration. His death as a result of dieting was the first of two in 2005. On November 12, Louisville, Kentucky jockey Chris Herrell also died as a result of crash dieting. \n\nEmanuel Jose Sanchez's remains were returned to his native Puerto Rico for burial. According to friend Christian Olmo, he is survived by a 6-year-old daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "493322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493322", "title": "Fausta", "text": "Fausta\n\nFlavia Maxima Fausta (289–326) was a Roman Empress, daughter of the Roman Emperor Maximianus. To seal the alliance between them for control of the Tetrarchy, in 307 Maximianus married her to Constantine I, who set aside his wife Minervina in her favour. Constantine and Fausta had been betrothed since 293.\n\nAs the sister of Emperor Maxentius, Fausta had a part in her father's downfall. In 310 Maximian died as a consequence of an assassination plot against Constantine. Maximian decided to involve his daughter Fausta, but she revealed the plot to her husband, and the assassination was disrupted. Maximian died, by suicide or by assassination, in July of that same year.\n\nEmpress Fausta was held in high esteem by Constantine, and proof of his favour was that in 324 she was proclaimed Augusta; previously she held the title of Nobilissima Femina. However, in 326, Fausta was put to death by Constantine, following the execution of Crispus, his eldest son by Minervina. The two deaths have been inter-related in various ways; in one, Fausta is set jealously against Crispus, as in the anonymous \"Epitome de Caesaribus\", or conversely her adultery, perhaps with the stepson who was close to her in age, is suggested. According to the Latin \"Epitome de Caesaribus\" and the \"Ecclesiastical History\" of Philostorgius (as epitomized by Photius), Fausta was executed by being cast into boiling water, in connection with the death of Crispus, whose death was reportedly caused be her allegations of sexual impropriety. The mode of assassination not otherwise attested in the Roman world. David Woods offers the connection of overheated bathing with contemporaneous techniques of abortion, a suggestion that implies an unwanted, adulterous pregnancy according to Constantine's biographer Paul Stephenson. \n\nThe Emperor ordered the damnatio memoriae of his wife with the result that no contemporary source records details of her fate: \"Eusebius, ever the sycophant, mentions neither Crispus nor Fausta in his \"Life of Constantine\", and even wrote Crispus out of the final version of his \"Ecclesiastical History\" (\"HE\" X.9.4)\", Constantine's biographer Paul Stephenson observes.\n\nSignificantly, her sons, once in power, never revoked this order.\n\nHer sons became Roman Emperors: Constantine II, reigned 337 – 340, Constantius II reigned 337 – 361, and Constans reigned 337 – 350. She also bore three daughters Constantina, Helena and Fausta. Of these, Constantina married her cousins, firstly Hannibalianus and secondly Constantius Gallus, and Helena married Emperor Julian. Apparently a genealogical claim that her daughter Fausta became mother of Emperor Valentinian I is without foundation (Valentinian I and the children of Constantine I's second marriage were born in years close to each other, i.e., they were of the same generation).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "655716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655716", "title": "Frederick I, Count of Vaudémont", "text": "Frederick I, Count of Vaudémont\n\nFrederick of Lorraine (1371 – October 25, 1415 in the battle of Agincourt) was a Count of Vaudémont.\n\nHe was the son of Duke John I of Lorraine and younger brother of Charles II. In 1393, Frederick married Margaret the heiress of Vaudémont and Joinville, and became Count of these lands in her right. He founded the House of Vaudémont, a junior branch of the House of Lorraine.\n\nHis children were:\n\nDynastic problems in the senior line caused his great-grandson René of Vaudémont to become Duke of Lorraine as René II in 1473.\n\n"}
{"id": "2458018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2458018", "title": "Gnotobiosis", "text": "Gnotobiosis\n\nGnotobiosis (from Greek roots \"gnostos\" \"known\" and \"bios\" \"life\") is a condition in which all the forms of life present within an organism can be accounted for. Typically gnotobiotic organisms are germ-free or gnotophoric (having only one contaminant).\n\nA gnotobiotic animal is an animal in which only certain known strains of bacteria and other microorganisms are present. Technically, the term also includes germ-free animals, as the status of their microbial communities is also \"known\". However, the term \"gnotobiotic\" is often incorrectly contrasted with \"germ-free\".\n\nGnotobiotic animals (also \"gnotobiotes\" or \"gnotobionts\") are born in aseptic conditions, which may include removal from the mother by Caesarean section and immediate transfer of the newborn to an isolator where all incoming air, food and water is sterilized. Such animals are normally reared in a sterile or microbially-controlled laboratory environment, and they are only exposed to those microorganisms that the researchers wish to have present in the animal. These gnotobiotes are used to study the symbiotic relationships between an animal and one or more of the microorganisms that may inhabit its body. This technique is important for microbiologists because it allows them to study only a select few symbiotic interactions at a time (see Scientific control), whereas animals that develop under normal conditions may quickly acquire a microbiota that includes hundreds or thousands of unique organisms.\n\nAnimals reared in a gnotobiotic colony often have poorly developed immune systems, lower cardiac output, thin intestinal walls and high susceptibility to infectious pathogens.\n\nSuch animals may also be used in animal production, especially in the rearing of pigs. After the Caesarean birth, these animals are introduced to their natural microflora in a stepwise fashion. This avoids undesired infections and leads to faster growth.\n\n"}
{"id": "2618424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2618424", "title": "Guillermo Rigondeaux", "text": "Guillermo Rigondeaux\n\nGuillermo Rigondeaux Ortiz (; born September 30, 1980) is a Cuban professional boxer. He has held multiple world championships at super bantamweight, including the lineal title since 2013, and previously the unified WBA (Super), WBO, and \"Ring\" magazine titles between 2013 and 2017. As of December 2017, Rigondeaux is ranked as the world's best active super bantamweight by \"The Ring\" and the Transnational Boxing Rankings Board (TBRB). He is also ranked as the world's ninth best active boxer, pound for pound, by \"The Ring\".\n\nPossessing one of the greatest amateur records of all time, Rigondeaux won consecutive gold medals in the bantamweight division at the 2000 and 2004 Summer Olympics. He is also a seven-time Cuban national champion at bantamweight (2000–2006), finishing his amateur career with a record of nearly 475 fights with 12 losses; the last of these losses occurring in 2003. After Rigondeaux's defection in 2009, he turned professional and remained undefeated for almost nine years.\n\nRigondeaux has been lauded by boxing trainer Freddie Roach as being \"probably the greatest talent I've ever seen.\" He is known for his exceptionally fast hand speed, punching power, counterpunching abilities, and defensive elusiveness.\n\n2000\n\n2004\n\n\nOn July 22, 2007, Rigondeaux and teammate Erislandy Lara failed to appear for their scheduled bouts at the Pan American Games in Brazil. It was initially announced that Rigondeaux was to turn professional, joining fellow 2004 Cuban Olympians Odlanier Solis, Yuriorkis Gamboa and Yan Barthelemy, who defected earlier in 2007. As with the other Cuban defectors, Rigondeaux signed a promotional deal with Ahmet Oener and ARENA Box-Promotion. However, on August 2, Rigondeaux and Lara were taken into police custody in Brazil, stating that they wanted to return home to Cuba. However, Cuban leader Fidel Castro then stated that Rigondeaux and Lara could not box again for the Cuban team. In February 2009, Rigondeaux defected again via Mexico City to Miami, and signed with Arena Box-Promotion.\n\nOn February 23, 2009, Rigondeaux was announced to have defected along with 2004 Olympic Silver Medalist Yudel Johnson, Yordanis Despaigne and Yunier Dorticos. He would train in the same gym as Yuriorkis Gamboa, Erislandy Lara and Odlanier Solis and would continue his career as a professional once he completed all the residency requirements. He left behind his wife Farah Colina, a 7-year-old son and a 17-year-old stepson in Cuba. He was also reportedly staying in the home of countryman and featherweight contender Yuriorkis Gamboa.\n\nRigondeaux won his professional debut on May 22 with a third-round TKO over Juan Noriega in Miami. Although he did not maintain a busy punch volume, Rigondeaux still landed hard shots. Noriega barely countered Rigondeaux's punches and the referee found the opportunity to stop the fight after Rigondeaux connected with a solid right to the head. On July 17 he won his second pro fight against Robert Guillen by first round knock out. Rigondeaux wasn't active but he hit Guillen with a great hard counter punch to the body which left him rolling on the canvas in pain.\n\nOn September 18, Rigondeaux beat Giovanni Andrade by 3rd round TKO to win the NABA Super Bantamweight title, dropping Andrade once in each of rounds two and three.\n\nOn December 16, 2009 Rigondeaux won a Unanimous Decision over Lante Addy in 8 rounds, dropping Addy once in round one.\n\nOn February 5, 2010, Rigondeaux scored a 1st round Knockout against Adolfo Landeros, dropping Landeros with a hard left uppercut to the body.\n\nRigondeaux then signed a three-year contract with Bob Arum's Top Rank in July 2010. He is also co-promoted by Boris Arencibia's Caribe Promotions.\n\nThe Ricardo Cordoba fight was on the HBO televised undercard of the Manny Pacquiao vs. Antonio Margarito WBC Light Middleweight title fight at Cowboys Stadium, Dallas, in front of 41,734 people. This was the biggest fight in Rigondeaux's career to date. Rigondeaux knocked Cordoba down in the 4th with a body shot, but was judged to be knocked down in turn in the 6th, in what appeared to be a slip. Despite appearing to win clearly, the fight was judged a split decision, with Rigondeaux the victor and becoming a world champion in his 7th bout (though interim) winning the WBA Super Bantamweight title.\n\nThe fight against Willie Casey was live on RTÉ (Ireland) at the City West Convention Centre, Dublin, Ireland on the 19th of March 2011. This was Rigondeaux's first defense of his WBA Interim Title. A sweeping left uppercut in the opening round caught Casey flush and sent him back on his rear causing his glove to touch the mat at 1:45. He was up immediately and received a mandatory eight-count. A combination capped with a left hook sent Casey falling across the ring and down at 2:19. He was able to make it to his feet but was visibly wobbled. A follow-up barrage sent Casey stumbling forward. At that, the referee stepped in and waved an end to the bout.\n\nRigondeaux won the \"full\" WBA World Super Bantamweight title by knocking out champion and \"Ring\" No. 2 ranked Super Bantamweight Rico Ramos (20-0, 11 KOs) in the 6th round. On January 20, 2012 Rigondeaux controlled the opening round against a tentative Ramos. He quickly moved into range and fired the left hand both to the body and upstairs. A straight left hand caught Ramos against the ropes and sent him down at 2:24 of the opening round. He was up quickly and received a mandatory eight-count. Rigondeaux attacked but Ramos gathered himself and finished the round. Output waned in the 2nd and 3rd Rounds both fighters looked for countering opportunities with neither seeming overly willing to open up. An accidental clash of heads opened a small cut on the outside of Ramos's left eyebrow near the end of Round 4. Rigondeaux was warned in Round 6 for pulling down the back of Ramos's head. Immediately after the warning, Rigondeaux came forward with a barrage and landed a clean left hand to the body that sent Ramos to the mat grimacing in pain. He remained down on his back as the referee reached the count of ten.\n\nRigondeaux has been trained under Ismael Salas after working with Freddie Roach, Alejandro \"Pupi\" Torre and Ronnie Shields, and has worked out with Jorge Rubio at his Xtreme Gym in Hialeah, Florida for the Teon Kennedy fight. DJ Montanocordoba has served as his physical conditioner.\n\nDespite Rigondeaux and his camp's great efforts to make a fight with any of the other 122 pound champions, they have been dodged by the other champions such as Nonito Donaire, Toshiaki Nishioka, Jeffrey Mathebula and Abner Mares. Rigondeaux said, \"They are cowards\". That was why Rigondeaux said thanks to Teon Kennedy for being there at the pre-fight press conference and fought against him on the undercard of the Manny Pacquiao vs. Timothy Bradley at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. Rigondeaux knew the split decision victory against Ricardo Cordoba did not please the HBO people, and learned from it the importance of aggressiveness. From the standpoint of promotion, the second appearance on HBO was crucial to him. He did not want to make the same mistake as he did two years ago. Rigondeaux impressively stopped Kennedy in the 5th round after knocking him down five times all with his left cross, leading Kennedy to say \"He just hits you with punches that you can't see\". He has differentiated from the Cordoba fight. Now that he realized that he needed to not only win a fight but also entertain, his promoter Bob Arum stated that Rigondeaux could one day face Nonito Donaire, Jorge Arce, or Wilfredo Vázquez, Jr.\n\nHe fought against Roberto Marroquin on the undercard of the Sergio Martínez vs. Julio César Chávez, Jr. at the Thomas & Mack Center on September 15, 2012. It was a relatively easy night for Rigondeaux, who outworked and outlanded Marroquin and seemed to just cruise through the fight. Rigondeaux gave his young opponent the first knockdown of his career in the 5th round and scored another knockdown in the 12th round. The judges scored the bout: 118-108, 118-108 and 118-109, all three in favour of Rigondeaux who retained his WBA title by unanimous decision.\n\nRigondeaux fought WBO and \"The Ring\" champion Nonito Donaire at Radio City Music Hall on April 13, 2013 in a unification fight. Rigondeaux left his trainer Jorge Rubio in order to start training with his former amateur trainer Pedro Diaz for this fight. Donaire came into the fight as the No. 5 pound-for-pound fighter in the world.\n\nRigondeaux defeated Donaire by unanimous decision with the scores of 114–113, 115–112, and 116–111, though the fight was considered much wider than the judges scorecards indicated. Rigondeaux frustrated Donaire early and often with his quick lead right hook, and left hand. Rigondeaux would continue to land the cleaner punches and dip out of range from Donaire for the first nine rounds of the fight. In the 10th round, while Rigondeaux attempted to clinch with Donaire, he was pushed off and caught with a straight left hand from Donaire, sending him to the canvas. Rigondeaux appeared to hurt Donaire with a straight left early in the 12th round, when Donaire covered up a severely swollen right eye and began bleeding from his mouth. Rigondeaux ended the round and fight targeting Donaire with his left hand, backing Donaire up. Rigondeaux out landed and out punched Donaire throughout the fight, winning a clear unanimous decision to unify titles and win \"The Ring\" Super Bantamweight title from Donaire.\n\nRingTV.com scored it 117–110 in favor of Rigondeaux, and HBO's Harold Lederman had it 118–109 for him.\n\nRigondeaux was next scheduled to fight former bantamweight titlist Joseph Agbeko on December 7, 2013 at the Boardwalk Hall, Atlantic City, New Jersey, USA. Prior to the fight, there was rumours that a rematch could surface between Rigondeaux and Donaire. Rigondeaux was opened to the idea but stated if the fight was to take place again, Donaire would need to accept the fight at 123 pounds and weigh no more than 133 the next day. Rigondeaux retained the Lineal, WBO, Ring Magazine and WBA 'Super' super bantamweight titles via unanimous decision. He won every round on all three judges scorecards (120-108). The fight was criticized for its lack of action.\n\nTop Rank announced the next defense would be against veteran Sod Kokietgym (63-2-1, 28 KOs) on July 19, 2014 at the Cotai Arena in Macao. Rigondeaux won the bout, after the fight was stopped half way through the first round. Kokietgym hit the canvas due to a hard, accidental head-butt, he was given time to recover, however when he got up, the two touched gloves as respect before Rigondeaux threw an ungentlemanly 'sucker punch' right hook to end the fight while they touched gloves with the other glove. This resembled the ending of the welterweight world title bout between Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Victor Ortiz in Las Vegas. This was the first professional fight for Rigondeaux outside of the United States and Kokietgym entered the fight having not lost in over eight years. It was the last time Rigondeaux fought under the Top Rank banner. After the fight, Rigondeaux states that he wanted to unify the division, proposing fights to fellow division titleholders Leo Santa Cruz and Kiko Martinez.\n\nRigondeaux retained his titles against Japan's Hisashi Amagasa in Japan. Rigondeaux was down twice in the seventh round but stated one of them was a slip/push. Amagasa was down in the 9th. Referee Mike Ortega stopped the bout after Amagasa failed to get up off his stool after round 11, suffering swelling around his right eye and facial disfigurement from what appeared to be a broken left jaw or cheek.\n\nOn November 13, 2015 it was announced that Rigondeaux would return to the United States after 23 months, and his first fight in 11 months on the Cotto-Canelo PPV undercard on November 21, 2015 in at the Mandalay Bay Events Centre in Las Vegas against 33 year old Filipino boxer Drian Fancisco (28-3-1, 22 KOs). Rigondeaux won the fight via unanimous decision (97-93, 100-90 twice) in a very one-sided fight to claim the vacant WBC International Silver super bantamweight title.\n\nRigondeaux was scheduled to fight Liverpool's James 'Jazza' Dickens (22-1, 7 KOs) on March 12, 2016 at the Echo Arena, on the under-card of Terry Flanagan vs. Derry Matthews. This would be the UK debut for Rigondeaux, who was training in Russia. It was announced on the fight night that the fight was off and Rigondeaux had returned to the United States due to failing to obtain a UK visa. Dickens still fought on the undercard defeating Reynaldo Cajina.\n\nOn May 14, 2016 Rigondeaux was re-instated as the WBA 'Super' super bantamweight champion due to Carl Frampton being stripped of the belt for failing to negotiate his first defence. Rigondeaux would most likely defend the title against Jazza Dickens or WBA bantamweight champion Jamie McDonnell. WBA ordered Rigondeaux to face interim titleholder Moises Flores (24-0, 17 KOs) by August 1, in a mandatory defence.\n\nIt was confirmed that Rigondeaux would defend his Lineal and WBA 'Super' World title against Jazza Dickens on July 16 at the Ice Arena in Cardiff. The fight was originally scheduled for March, however was cancelled due to Rigondeaux having VISA issues. This was Rigondeaux's first fight in the UK. Rigondeaux retained his belts after breaking Dickens jaw in round 2 with a huge left hand. Dickens was forced to retire after the round.\n\nOn July 20, 2016 in their continued desire to reduce the number of champions, the WBA ordered Rigondeaux to make a mandatory defence of his title against their interim titleholder, 29-year-old Mexican boxer Moises Flores (25-0, 17 KO). On December 7, the WBA announced a purse bid would be held on December 19 at the WBA headquarters in Panama City with a minimum bid of $150,000 with Rigondeaux receiving the bigger split of 75% and 25% going to Flores. A deal was reached before the scheduled purse bids. Flores said he would be dedicating this fight to Alejandro Gonzalez, a boxer who was killed in Mexico in December. The fight would likely take place on the Roc Nation Sports card on February 25, 2017 live on HBO ppv, a co-feature to light-middleweight fight Cotto-Kirkland. Flores' IBO world title would also be at stake. The fight was officially announced on January 25, 2017. On February 2, Kirkland picked up a nose injury which initially called off his ppv fight with Cotto. Later that day, it was announced that the whole card had been cancelled. A new date of March or April was then discussed for the Rigondeaux vs. Flores fight.\n\nThe WBA ordered another purse bid to take place on April 3, 2017 at the Panama City headquarters, again with a minimum bid of $150,000. A deal was reached within a week on March 31 between both parties. The date being discussed was June 17, 2017 meaning it would be an undercard fight for Ward-Kovalev II on HBO PPV. Flores' promoter Tom Brown confirmed the terms were being agreed. It was reported that Rigondeaux would earn a purse of $120,000 whilst Flores would earn $25,000.\n\nRigondeaux retained his WBA and Lineal titles as well as claim the IBO super bantamweight title after controversially knocking Flores out at the end of round 1. Before the bell sounded for the end of the round, both fighters locked in a flurry, with Rigondeaux holding Flores' head, both exchanged combinations. Whilst Flores missed his shots, Rigondeaux landed a hook to the head after the bell. As referee Vic Drakulich managed to separate the two, Flores, after a split second, fell backwards. The referee then turned his attention to Flores and after viewing ringside replay, without sound, ruled it a knockout win for Rigondeaux. Rigondeaux said, through a translator, \"We both threw punches at the same time and mine landed first. It was only a matter of time [until the knockout happened].\"\n\nNevada State Athletic Commission executive director Bob Bennett was brought in to discuss the ending with HBO's Jim Lampley, and said if the punch was thrown after the bell, they would review the decision. He also went on to say that it could turn out as a disqualification loss for Rigondeaux. Paulie Malignaggi, who was working as a pundit for Sky Sports, thought Flores had over-reacted when he fell onto the canvas, maybe looking for a DQ win. The next day, Bob Bennett fully reviewed the tape and agreed the punch landed after the bell but was unintentional, meaning the result could change to a no decision with WBA possibly ordering a rematch. On June 20, Bob Bennett told ESPN that there was plans to change the outcome of the fight to a 'no decision'. Bennett could not unilaterally change the result, nor can the commission chairman, although it must be voted on by the four commissioners. On June 26, the result was officially changed to a no contest.\n\nOn July 6, 2017 the WBA ordered an immediate rematch to take place between Rigondeaux and Flores, within 150 days of the first fight, meaning it would likely take place around November 2017. Flores was given a 60-day medical suspension from the Nevada commission. The two sides had until August 17, or it would go to purse bids.\n\nOn August 6, Arum stated that Vasyl Lomachenko would fight for a third time in 2017, likely on December 9th or 23rd. When asked who the potential options where, Arum stated, <nowiki>\"Well, there'</nowiki>s a few guys. (Guillermo) Rigondeaux if he answers Dino (Duva's) call. There's (Orlando) Salido, who's sniffing around and the third is (Miguel) Berchelt.\" Arum also mentioned lightweight contender Ray Beltrán, but said he would like to capture a world title at lightweight before a potential fight with Lomachenko. On August 14, Arum spoke to LA Times and confirmed either Rigondeaux or Salido would be Lomachenko's next opponent. He stated if the bout with Rigondeaux was made, it would likely take place at the Madison Square Garden Theatre and a potential rematch with Salido would take place in Los Angeles. On August 21, Arum stated both camps were closing in on finalising a deal for December 9. On September 15, the bout between Lomachenko and Rigondeaux was confirmed. The fight was confirmed to take place at 130 pounds. On November 18, Carl Moretti of Top Rank revealed a re-hydration clause on the contract. Both fighters agreed to weigh in at 09:00 on the morning of the fight, where they would not be able to exceed 138 pounds. Any fighter over the limit would face a penalty of more than $10,000. On November 28, the WBA announced that Rigondeaux would lose his title at super bantamweight if he lost to Lomachenko. WBA president Gilberto Mendoza Jr. went on to say if Rigondeaux defeats Lomachenko, he would have five days to decide whether he is to return to the division or stay at super featherweight. He stated that special permission was granted because the bout was 'an important fight for boxing'. Upon receiving the news, Rigondeaux took to Twitter and stated he was disappointed. On fight night, Lomachenko weighed 137.4 pounds and Rigondeaux weighed 130 pounds.\n\nIn front of a sell out crowd of 5,102 at the Theater, Lomachenko retained his WBO title using a combination of size, speed and angles, eventually forcing Rigondeaux to quit. Rigondeaux never landed more than three punches per round. He said he could not continue because he broke his hand during the fight; it was later revealed that it was bruised, not broken. Rigondeaux became Lomachenko's fourth consecutive opponent to retire on his stool. The loss also marked the first time Rigondeaux had lost since 2003, when he was still an amateur. At the time of stoppage, Lomachenko was ahead on all three judges' scorecards, 60-53, 59-54 and 59-54. \n\nIn the post-fight interviews, Lomachenko was asked about Rigondeaux being his fourth consecutive opponent to retire on his stool, to which Lomachenko joked, \"Maybe I should change my second name, now my name is 'No Mas Chenko'.\" He also went on to say, \"This is not his weight, so it's not a big win for me. But he's a good fighter. He's got great skills. I adjusted to his style, low blows and all.\" Speaking to an interpreter, Rigondeaux said, \"I lost, no excuses. I injured the top of my left hand in the second round. He's a very technical fighter. He's explosive. I'm gonna come back because that's what I do. The weight was not a factor in this fight. It was the injury to my hand.\" According to CompuBox statistics, Lomachenko landed 55 of 339 punches thrown (16%) and Rigondeaux landed 15 of his 178 thrown (8%), landing no more than 3 punches per round. For the fight, Lomachenko was guaranteed a purse of $1.2 million whereas Rigondeaux earned a $400,000 purse. On December 12, Dino Duva of Roc Nation Sport, confirmed that Rigondeaux had bruised his hand and not fractured it, as initially stated. The card averaged 1.73 million viewers on ESPN, which did not include ESPN Deportes or the online streaming service.\n\nAs stated by the WBA, in the January 2018 rankings, Rigondeaux was removed as their 'Super' champion.\n\nRigondeaux returned to training on July 25, 2018. On August 2, Rigondeaux and Roc Nation Sports came to a mutual agreement to terminate their contract. With a year left on the contract, Dino Duva told ESPN, \"We weren't able to come up with anything significant for him, and he's in the later part of his career, so if he's a free agent, maybe he can go make a fight for himself. We're OK with that and we wish him the best.\" Roc Nation promoted Rigondeaux in four bouts.\n\nOn November 20, 2018 it was reported that Rigondeaux started training with Veteran trainer Ronnie Shields. Shield's a well known trainer, who also trained Cuban boxer Erislandy Lara at the time, welcomed Rigondeaux to his training base in Houston, Texas.\n\nAfter signing with powerful advisor Al Haymon, now fighting under the Premier Boxing Champions banner, it was announced on November 29, Rigondeaux would make his ring return on either December 22, 2018 or January 13, 2019. It was reported that he would return to super bantamweight, but could see a move up to featherweight.\n\nA documentary on Rigondeaux, \"Split Decision\", has been in the works by filmmaker Brin-Jonathan Butler. Butler also published a biography of Rigondeaux in 2014, entitled \"A Cuban Boxer's Journey: From Castro's Traitor to American Champion\", published by Picador USA.\n\n\n<br>Status changed\n"}
{"id": "8033188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8033188", "title": "Guilt (law)", "text": "Guilt (law)\n\nIn criminal law, guilt is the state of being responsible for the commission of an offense. Legal guilt is entirely externally defined by the state, or more generally a \"court of law\". Being \"guilty\" of a criminal offense means that one has committed a violation of criminal law, or performed all the elements of the offense set out by a criminal statute. The determination that one has committed that violation is made by an external body (a \"court of law\") and is, therefore, as definitive as the record-keeping of the body. So the most basic definition is fundamentally circular: a person is guilty of violating a law, if a court says so.\n\nPhilosophically, guilt in criminal law is a reflection of a functioning society and its ability to condemn individuals' actions. It rests fundamentally on a presumption of free will, in which individuals choose actions and are, therefore, subjected to external judgement of the rightness or wrongness of those actions.\n\n\"See also\" Cotton, Michael, A FOOLISH CONSISTENCY: KEEPING DETERMINISM OUT OF THE CRIMINAL LAW, 15 B.U. Pub. Int. L.J. 1 (\"A substantial body of scholarship has concerned itself with the importance of free will to the theory of the criminal law. Even given the importance of the subject, the quantity of attention is surprising because of the lack of fundamental disagreement among scholars, who overwhelmingly endorse the criminal law's assumption of free will.\")\n\n\"Guilt\" is the obligation of a person who has violated a moral standard to bear the sanctions imposed by that moral standard. In legal terms, guilt means having been found to have violated a criminal law, though law also raises 'the issue of defences, pleas, the mitigation of offences, and the defeasibility of claims'.\n\nLes Parrott draws a three-fold distinction between \"\"objective\" or \"legal\" guilt, which occurs when society's laws have been broken... \"social\" guilt...[over] an unwritten law of social expectation\", and finally the way \"\"personal\" guilt occurs when someone compromises one's own standards\".\n\nGuilt can sometimes be remedied by: punishment (a common action and advised or required in many legal and moral codes); forgiveness (as in transformative justice); making amends (see reparation or acts of reparation), or \"restitution ... an important step in finding freedom from real guilt'; or by sincere remorse (as with confession in Catholicism or restorative justice). Guilt can also be remedied through intellectualisation or cognition (the understanding that the source of the guilty feelings was illogical or irrelevant). Helping other people can also help relieve guilt feelings: \"thus guilty people are often helpful people ... helping, like receiving an external reward, seemed to get people feeling better\". There are also the so-called \"Don Juans of achievement ... who pay the installments due their superego not by suffering but by achievements... Since no achievement succeeds in really undoing the unconscious guilt, these persons are compelled to run from one achievement to another\".\n\nLaw does not usually accept the agent's self-punishment, but some ancient codes did: in Athens, the accused could propose their own remedy, which could, in fact, be a reward, while the accuser proposed another, and the jury chose something in-between. This forced the accused to effectively bet on his support in the community, as Socrates did when he proposed \"room and board in the town hall\" as his fate. He lost and drank hemlock, a poison, as advised by his accuser.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13547", "title": "Hate crime", "text": "Hate crime\n\nA hate crime (also known as a bias-motivated crime or bias crime) is a prejudice-motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of his or her membership (or perceived membership) in a certain social group or race. \n\nExamples of such groups can include and are almost exclusively limited to: sex, ethnicity, disability, language, nationality, physical appearance, religion, gender identity or sexual orientation. Non-criminal actions that are motivated by these reasons are often called \"bias incidents\".\n\n\"Hate crime\" generally refers to criminal acts which are seen to have been motivated by bias against one or more of the social groups listed above, or by bias against their derivatives. Incidents may involve physical assault, damage to property, bullying, harassment, verbal abuse or insults, mate crime or offensive graffiti or letters (hate mail).\n\nA hate crime law is a law intended to deter bias-motivated violence. Hate crime laws are distinct from laws against hate speech: hate crime laws enhance the penalties associated with conduct which is already criminal under other laws, while hate speech laws criminalize a category of speech. Hate speech laws exist in many countries. In the United States, hate crime laws have been upheld by both the Supreme Court and lower courts, especially in the case of 'fighting' words and other violent speech, but they are thought by some people to be in conflict with the First Amendment right to freedom of speech, but hate crimes are only regulated through threats of injury or death.\n\nThe term \"hate crime\" came into common usage in the United States during the 1980s, but the term is often used retrospectively in order to describe events which occurred prior to that era. From the Roman persecution of Christians to the Nazi slaughter of Jews, hate crimes were committed by both individuals and governments long before the term was commonly used.\n\nAs Europeans began to colonize the world from the 16th century onwards, indigenous peoples in the colonized areas, such as Native Americans increasingly became the targets of bias-motivated intimidation and violence. During the past two centuries, typical examples of hate crimes in the U.S. include lynchings of African Americans, largely in the South, and lynchings of Mexicans and Chinese in the West; cross burnings to intimidate black activists or to drive black families from predominantly white neighborhoods both during and after Reconstruction; assaults on white people traveling in predominantly black neighborhoods; assaults on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people; the painting of swastikas on Jewish synagogues; and xenophobic responses to a variety of minority ethnic groups.\n\nThe verb \"to lynch\" is attributed to the actions of Charles Lynch, an 18th-century Virginia Quaker. Lynch, other militia officers, and justices of the peace rounded up Tory sympathizers who were given a summary trial at an informal court; sentences handed down included whipping, property seizure, coerced pledges of allegiance, and conscription into the military. Originally, the term referred to extrajudicial organized but unauthorized punishment of criminals. It later evolved to describe execution outside \"ordinary justice.\" It is highly associated with white suppression of African Americans in the South, and periods of weak or nonexistent police authority, as in certain frontier areas of the Old West.\n\nThe murders of Channon Christian and Christopher Newsom and the Wichita Massacre were not classified as \"hate crimes\" by U.S. investigative officials or the media. In the early 21st century, conservative commentators David Horowitz, Michelle Malkin (Fox News channel and author) and Stuart Taylor Jr. (journalist) did describe these events as \"hate crimes against whites by blacks.\"\n\nHate crimes can have significant and wide-ranging psychological consequences, not only for their direct victims but for others as well. A 1999 U.S. study of lesbian and gay victims of violent hate crimes documented that they experienced higher levels of psychological distress, including symptoms of depression and anxiety, than lesbian and gay victims of comparable crimes which were not motivated by antigay bias. A manual issued by the Attorney-General of the Province of Ontario in Canada lists the following consequences:\n\n\nHate crime victims can also develop depression and psychological trauma.\n\nA review of European and American research indicates that terrorist bombings cause Islamophobia and hate crimes to flare up but, in calmer times, they subside again, although to a relatively high level. Terrorist's most persuasive message is that of fear and fear, a primary and strong emotion, increases risk estimates and has distortive effects on the perception of ordinary Muslims. Widespread Islamophobic prejudice seems to contribute to anti-Muslim hate crimes, but indirectly: terrorist attacks and intensified Islamophobic prejudice serve as a window of opportunity for extremist groups and networks.\n\nHate crime laws generally fall into one of several categories:\n\nSince 2002, with an amendment to the Convention on Cybercrime, the European Union mandates individual states to punish as a crime hate speech done through the internet.\n\nDiscriminatory acts constituting harassment or infringement of a person's dignity on the basis of origin, citizenship, race, religion, or gender (Penal Code Article 313). Courts have cited bias-based motivation in delivering sentences, but there is no explicit penalty enhancement provision in the Criminal Code. The government does not track hate crime statistics, although they are relatively rare.\n\nArmenia has a penalty-enhancement statute for crimes with ethnic, racial, or religious motives (Criminal Code Article 63).\n\nAustria has a penalty-enhancement statute for reasons like repeating a crime, being especially cruel, using others helpless state, playing a leading role in a crime, or committing a crime with racist, xenophobic or especially reprehensible motivation (Penal Code section 33(5)).\n\nAzerbaijan has a penalty-enhancement statute for crimes motivated by racial, national, or religious hatred (Criminal Code Article 61). Murder and infliction of serious bodily injury motivated by racial, religious, national, or ethnic intolerance are distinct crimes (Article 111).\n\nBelarus has a penalty-enhancement statute for crimes motivated by racial, national, and religious hatred and discord.\n\nBelgium's Act of 25 February 2003 (\"aimed at combating discrimination and modifying the Act of 15 February 1993 which establishes the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism\") establishes a penalty-enhancement for crimes involving discrimination on the basis of gender, supposed race, color, descent, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, civil status, birth, fortune, age, religious or philosophical beliefs, current or future state of health and handicap or physical features. The Act also \"provides for a civil remedy to address discrimination.\" The Act, along with the Act of 20 January 2003 (\"on strengthening legislation against racism\"), requires the Centre to collect and publish statistical data on racism and discriminatory crimes.\n\nThe Criminal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina (enacted 2003) \"contains provisions prohibiting discrimination by public officials on grounds, inter alia, of race, skin colour, national or ethnic background, religion and language and prohibiting the restriction by public officials of the language rights of the citizens in their relations with the authorities (Article 145/1 and 145/2).\"\n\nBulgarian criminal law prohibits certain crimes motivated by racism and xenophobia, but a 1999 report by the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance found that it does not appear that those provisions \"have ever resulted in convictions before the courts in Bulgaria.\"\n\nThe Croatian Penal Code explicitly defines hate crime in article 89 as \"any crime committed out of hatred for someone's race, skin color, sex, sexual orientation, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social background, asset, birth, education, social condition, age, health condition or other attribute\". On 1 January 2013, a new Penal Code was introduced with the recognition of a hate crime based on \"race, skin color, religion, national or ethnic background, sexual orientation or gender identity\".\n\nThe Czech legislation finds its constitutional basis in the principles of equality and non-discrimination contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Basic Freedoms. From there, we can trace two basic lines of protection against hate-motivated incidents: one passes through criminal law, the other through civil law.\nThe current Czech criminal legislation has implications both for decisions about guilt (affecting the decision whether to find a defendant guilty or not guilty) and decisions concerning sentencing (affecting the extent of the punishment imposed). It has three levels, to wit:\nCurrent criminal legislation does not provide for special penalties for acts that target another by reason of his sexual orientation, age or health status. Only the constituent elements of the criminal offense of Incitement to hatred towards a group of persons or to the curtailment of their rights and freedoms, and general aggravating circumstances include attacking a so-called different group of people. Such a group of people can then, of course, be also one defined by sexual orientation, age or health status. A certain disparity has thus been created between, on the one hand, those groups of people who are victimized by reason of their skin color, faith, nationality, ethnicity or political persuasion and enjoy increased protection, and, on the other hand, those groups that are victimized by reason of their sexual orientation, age or health status and are not granted increased protection. This gap in protection against attacks motivated by the victim's sexual orientation, age or health status cannot be successfully bridged by interpretation. Interpretation by analogy is inadmissible in criminal law, sanctionable motivations being exhaustively enumerated.\n\nAlthough Danish law does not include explicit hate crime provisions, \"section 80(1) of the Criminal Code instructs courts to take into account the gravity of the offence and the offender's motive when meting out penalty, and therefore to attach importance to the racist motive of crimes in determining sentence.\" In recent years judges have used this provision to increase sentences on the basis of racist motives.\n\nSince 1992, the Danish Civil Security Service (PET) has released statistics on crimes with apparent racist motivation.\n\nUnder section 151 of the Criminal Code of Estonia of 6 June 2001, which entered into force on 1 September 2002, with amendments and supplements and as amended by the Law of 8 December 2011, \"activities which publicly incite to hatred, violence or discrimination on the basis of nationality, race, colour, sex, language, origin, religion, sexual orientation, political opinion, or financial or social status, if this results in danger to the life, health or property of a person, are punishable by a fine of up to 300 fine units or by detention\".\n\nFinnish Criminal Code 515/2003 (enacted January 31, 2003) makes \"committing a crime against a person, because of his national, racial, ethnical or equivalent group\" an aggravating circumstance in sentencing. In addition, ethnic agitation () is criminalized and carries a fine or a prison sentence of not more than two years. The prosecution need not prove that an actual danger to an ethnic group is caused but only that malicious message is conveyed. A more aggravated hate crime, warmongering (), carries a prison sentence of one to ten years. However, in case of warmongering, the prosecution must prove an overt act that evidently increases the risk that Finland is involved in a war or becomes a target for a military operation. The act in question may consist of\n\nIn 2003, France enacted penalty-enhancement hate crime laws for crimes motivated by bias against the victim's actual or perceived ethnicity, nation, race, religion, or sexual orientation. The penalties for murder were raised from 30 years (for non-hate crimes) to life imprisonment (for hate crimes), and the penalties for violent attacks leading to permanent disability were raised from 10 years (for non-hate crimes) to 15 years (for hate crimes).\n\n\"There is no general provision in Georgian law for racist motivation to be considered an aggravating circumstance in prosecutions of ordinary offenses. Certain crimes involving racist motivation are, however, defined as specific offenses in the Georgian Criminal Code of 1999, including murder motivated by racial, religious, national or ethnic intolerance (article 109); infliction of serious\ninjuries motivated by racial, religious, national or ethnic intolerance (article 117); and torture motivated by racial, religious, national or ethnic intolerance (article 126). ECRI reported no knowledge of cases in which this law has been enforced. There is no systematic monitoring or data collection on discrimination in Georgia.\"\n\nThe German Criminal Code does not have hate crime legislation, but instead criminalizes hate speech under a number of different laws, including Volksverhetzung. In the German legal framework motivation is not taken into account while identifying the element of the offence. However, within the sentencing procedure the judge can define certain principles for determining punishment. In section 46 of the German Criminal Code it is stated that \"the motives and aims of the perpetrator; the state of mind reflected in the act and the willfulness involved in its commission.\" can be taken into consideration when determining the punishment; under this statute, hate and bias have been taken into consideration in sentencing in past cases.\n\nHate crimes are not specifically tracked by German police, but have been studied separately: a recently published EU \"Report on Racism\" finds that racially motivated attacks are frequent in Germany, identifying 18,142 incidences for 2006, of which 17,597 were motivated by right wing ideologies, both about a 14% year-by-year increase. Relative to the size of the population, this represents an eightfold higher rate of hate crimes than reported in the US during the same period. Awareness of hate crimes and right-wing extremism in Germany remains low.\n\nArticle Law 927/1979 \"Section 1,1 penalises incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence towards individuals or groups because of\ntheir racial, national or religious origin, through public written or oral expressions; Section 1,2 prohibits the\nestablishment of, and membership in, organisations which organise propaganda and activities aimed at racial\ndiscrimination; Section 2 punishes public expression of offensive ideas; Section 3 penalises the act of refusing,\nin the exercise of one’s occupation, to sell a commodity or to supply a service on racial grounds.\" Public prosecutors may press charges even if the victim does not file a complaint. However, as of 2003, no convictions had been attained under the law.\n\nViolent action, cruelty, and coercion by threat made on the basis of the victim's actual or perceived national, ethnic, religious status or membership in a particular social group are punishable under article 174/B of the Hungarian Criminal Code. This article was added to the Code in 1996.\n\nSection 233a of the Icelandic Penal Code states \"Anyone who in a ridiculing, slanderous, insulting, threatening or any other manner publicly abuses a person or a group of people on the basis of their nationality, skin colour, race, religion or sexual orientation, shall be fined or jailed for up to two years.\"\n\n\"The Prohibition of Incitement to Hatred Act 1989\" makes it an offense to incite hatred against any group of persons on account of their race, color, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, ethnic or national origins, or membership of the Traveller community, an indigenous minority group.\"\n\nIreland does not systematically collect hate crime data.\n\nItalian criminal law, at Section 3 of Law No. 205/1993, the so-called \"\" (Mancino law), contains a penalty-enhancement provision for all crimes motivated by racial, sex/gender, ethnic, national, or religious bias.\n\nIn Kazakhstan, there are constitutional provisions prohibiting propaganda promoting racial or ethnic superiority.\n\nIn Kyrgyzstan, \"the Constitution of the State party prohibits any kind of discrimination on grounds of origin, sex, race, nationality, language, faith, political or religious convictions or any other personal or social trait or circumstance, and that the prohibition against racial discrimination is also included in other legislation, such as the Civil, Penal and Labour Codes.\"\n\nArticle 299 of the Criminal Code defines incitement to national, racist, or religious hatred as a specific offense. This article has been used in political trials of suspected members of the banned organization Hizb-ut-Tahrir.\n\nArticle 29 of the penal code of the Russian Federation bans incitement to riot for the sake of stirring societal, racial, ethnic, and religious hatred as well as the promotion of the superiority of the same. Article 282 further includes protections against incitement of hatred (including gender) via various means of communication, instilling criminal penalties including fines and imprisonment.\n\nArticle 22(4) of the Spanish Penal Code includes a penalty-enhancement provision for crimes motivated by bias against the victim's ideology, beliefs, religion, ethnicity, race, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, illness or disability.\n\nArticle 29 of the Swedish Penal Code includes a penalty-enhancement provision for crimes motivated by bias against the victim's race, color, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, or \"other similar circumstance\" of the victim.\n\nI. \"\"Constitution of Ukraine\" :\n\nThe most important law of the Ukraine country : the \"Constitution of Ukraine\"\" guarantees protection against Hate crime :\n\n\"\"Constitution of Ukraine\"\" :\n\nArticle 10 : \"In Ukraine, free development, use and protection of Russian and \"other languages\" of national minorities of Ukraine are guaranteed\". \n\nArticle 11 : \"The state shall promote the development of ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of all indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine\".\n\nArticle 24 :\"There can be no privileges or restrictions on the grounds of race, color of the skin, political, religious or other beliefs, sex, ethnic or social origin, property status, place of residence, language or other grounds\".\nII. \"CRIMINAL CODEX OF UKRAINE\" :\n\nin Ukraine, all criminal punishments for crimes committed under the law are required to be registered in only one law, it is the only one: \"CRIMINAL CODEX OF UKRAINE\"\n\nThe crimes committed for Hate crime reinforce the punishment in many articles of the criminal law. There are also separate articles on punishment for Hate crime.\n\n\"CRIMINAL CODEX OF UKRAINE\" :\n\nArticle 161 : \"Violations of equality of citizens depending on their race, nationality, religious beliefs, disability and other grounds\n\n1. Intentional acts aimed at incitement to national, racial or religious hatred and violence, to humiliate national honor and dignity, or to repulse citizens' feelings due to their religious beliefs, as well as direct or indirect restriction of rights or the establishment of direct or indirect privileges citizens on the grounds of race, color, political, religious or other beliefs, sex, disability, ethnic or social origin, property status, place of residence, language or other grounds\"(Maximum criminal sentence of up to 8 years in prison)\n\nArticle 300 : \"Importation, manufacture or distribution of works promoting a cult of violence and cruelty, racial, national or religious intolerance and discrimination\" (Maximum criminal sentence of up to 5 years in prison)\n\nFor England, Wales, and Scotland, the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 makes hateful behaviour towards a victim based on the victim's membership (or presumed membership) in a racial group or a religious group an aggravation in sentencing for specified crimes. The Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 (c. 24) amended sections of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998. For Northern Ireland, Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987 (S.I. 1987/463 (N.I. 7)) serves the same purpose. A \"racial group\" is a group of persons defined by reference to race, colour, nationality (including citizenship) or ethnic or national origins. A \"religious group\" is a group of persons defined by reference to religious belief or lack of religious belief. The specified crimes are assault, criminal damage, offences under the Public Order Act 1986, and offences under the Protection from Harassment Act 1997.\n\nSections 145 and 146 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 require a court to consider whether a crime which is not specified by the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 is racially or religiously aggravated, and to consider whether the following circumstances were pertinent to the crime:\n\nThe Crime Survey for England and Wales (CSEW) reported in 2013 that there are an average of 278,000 hate crimes a year with 40% being reported according to a victims survey, although police records only identified around 43,000 hate crimes a year. It was widely reported that police recorded a 57% increase in hate crime complaints in the four days following the UK's European Union membership referendum, however a press release from the National Police Chief's Council stated that \"this should not be read as a national increase in hate crime of 57 per cent”.\n\nIn 2013, Greater Manchester Police began recording attacks on goths, punks and other alternative culture groups as hate crimes.\n\nOn December 4, 2013 Essex Police launched the ‘Stop the Hate’ initiative as part of a concerted effort to find new ways to tackle hate crime in Essex. The launch was marked by a conference in Chelmsford, hosted by Chief Constable Stephen Kavanagh, which brought together 220 delegates from a range of partner organisations involved in the field. The theme of the conference was ‘Report it to Sort it’ and the emphasis was on encouraging people to tell police if they have been a victim of hate crime, whether it be based on race, religion, sexual orientation, transgender identity or disability.\n\nCrown Prosecution Service guidance issued on 21 August 2017 stated that online hate crimes should be treated as seriously as offences in person.\n\nPerhaps the most high-profile hate crime in modern Britain occurred in Eltham, London, on 24 April 1993, when 18-year-old black student Stephen Lawrence was stabbed to death in an attack by a gang of white youths. Two white teenagers were later charged with the murder, and at least three other suspects were mentioned in the national media, but the charges against them were dropped within three months after the Crown Prosecution Service concluded that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute. However, a change in the law a decade later allowed a suspect to be charged with a crime twice if new evidence emerged after the original charges were dropped or a \"not guilty\" verdict was delivered in court. Gary Dobson, who had been charged with the murder in the initial 1993 investigation, was found guilty of Stephen Lawrence's murder in January 2012 and sentenced to life imprisonment, as was David Norris, who had not been charged in 1993. A third suspect, Luke Knight, had been charged in 1993 but was not charged when the case came to court nearly 20 years later.\n\nUnder Scottish Common law the courts can take any aggravating factor into account when sentencing someone found guilty of an offence. There is legislation dealing with the offences of incitement of racial hatred, racially aggravated harassment, prejudice relating to religious beliefs, disability, sexual orientation, and transgender identity. A Scottish Executive working group examined the issue of hate crime and ways of combating crime motivated by social prejudice, reporting in 2004. Its main recommendations were not implemented, but in their manifestos for the Scottish Parliament election, 2007 several political parties included commitments to legislate in this area, including the Scottish National Party who now form the Scottish Government. The Offences (Aggravation by Prejudice) (Scotland) Bill was introduced on 19 May 2008 by Patrick Harvie MSP, having been prepared with support from the Scottish Government, and was passed unanimously by the parliament on 3 June 2009.\n\nAlbania, Cyprus, San Marino, Slovenia and Turkey have no hate crime laws.\n\n\"In Canada the legal definition of hate crime can be found in sections 318 and 319 of the Criminal Code\".\nIn 1996 the federal government amended a section of the Criminal Code that pertains to sentencing. Specifically, section 718.2. The section states (with regard to the hate crime):\n\n\"A court that imposes a sentence shall also take into consideration the following principles:\n\n\"(a) a sentence should be increased or reduced to account for any relevant aggravating or mitigating circumstances relating to the offence or the offender, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,\"\n\n\"(i) evidence that the offence was motivated by bias, prejudice or hate based on race, national or ethnic origin, language, colour, religion, sex, age, mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, or any other similar factor, . . . shall be deemed to be aggravating circumstances.\"\"\nA vast majority (84 per cent) of hate crime perpetrators were \"male, with an average age of just under 30. Less than 10 of those accused had criminal records, and less than 5 per cent had previous hate crime involvement (ibid O’Grady 2010 page 163.).\"\nAs of 2004, Jewish people were the largest ethnic group targeted by hate crimes, followed by blacks, Muslims, South Asians, and homosexuals (Silver et al., 2004).\n\nDuring the Nazi regime, anti-Semitism was a cause of hate related violence in Canada. For example, on August 16, 1933 there was a baseball game in Toronto and one team was made up of mostly Jewish players. At the end of the game, a group of Nazi sympathizers unfolded a Swastika flag and shouted ‘Heil Hitler’. That event erupted into a brawl that had Jews and Italians against Anglo Canadians and the brawl went on for hours.\n\nThe first time someone was charged with hate speech over the internet occurred on 27 March 1996. \"A Winnipeg teenager was arrested by the police for sending an email to a local political activist that contained the message ‘Death to homosexuals’ it's prescribed in the Bible! Better watch out next Gay Pride Week.’ (Nairne, 1996).\"\n\nHate crime laws have a long history in the United States. The first hate crime laws were passed after the American Civil War, beginning with the Civil Rights Act of 1871, to combat the growing number of racially motivated crimes being committed by the Reconstruction era Ku Klux Klan. The modern era of hate-crime legislation began in 1968 with the passage of federal statute, 18 U.S. 245, part of the Civil Rights Act which made it illegal to \"by force or by threat of force, injure, intimidate, or interfere with anyone who is engaged in six specified protected activities, by reason of their race, color, religion, or national origin.\" However, \"The prosecution of such crimes must be certified by the U.S. attorney general.\".\n\nThe first state hate-crime statute, California's Section 190.2, was passed in 1978 and provided for penalty enhancement in cases where murder was motivated by prejudice against four \"protected status\" categories: race, religion, color, and national origin. Washington included ancestry in a statute passed in 1981. Alaska included creed and sex in 1982 and later disability, sexual orientation, and ethnicity. In the 1990s some state laws began to include age, marital status, membership in the armed forces, and membership in civil rights organizations.\n\nCriminal acts which could be considered hate crimes in various states included aggravated assault, assault and battery, vandalism, rape, threats and intimidation, arson, trespassing, stalking, and various \"lesser\" acts until in 1987 California state legislation included all crimes as possible hate crimes.\n\nDefined in the 1999 National Crime Victim Survey, \"A hate crime is a criminal offense. In the United States, federal prosecution is possible for hate crimes committed on the basis of a person's race, religion, or nation origin when engaging in a federally protected activity.\" In 2009, the Matthew Shepard Act added actual or perceived gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, and disability to the federal definition, and dropped the prerequisite that the victim be engaging in a federally protected activity.\n\nForty-five states and the District of Columbia have statutes criminalizing various types of hate crimes. Thirty-one states and the District of Columbia have statutes creating a civil cause of action in addition to the criminal penalty for similar acts. Twenty-seven states and the District of Columbia have statutes requiring the state to collect hate crime statistics.\n\nAccording to the FBI Hate Crime Statistics report for 2006, hate crimes increased nearly 8% nationwide, with a total of 7,722 incidents and 9,080 offenses reported by participating law enforcement agencies. Of the 5,449 crimes against persons, 46% were classified as intimidation and 32% as simple assaults. 81% of the 3,593 crimes against property were acts of vandalism or destruction.\n\nHowever, according to the FBI Hate Crime Statistics for 2007, the number of hate crimes decreased to 7,624 incidents reported by participating law enforcement agencies. These incidents included 9 murders and 2 rapes(out of the almost 17,000 murders and 90,000 forcible rapes committed in the U.S. in 2007).\n\nAttorney General Eric Holder said in June 2009 that recent killings show the need for a tougher U.S. hate crimes law to stop \"violence masquerading as political activism\".\n\nThe 2011 hate crime statistics show 46.9% were motivated by race and 20.8% by sexual orientation.\n\nIn 2015, the Hate Crimes Statistics report identified 5,818 single-bias incidents involving 6,837 offenses, 7,121 victims, and 5,475 known offenders\n\nProsecutions of hate crimes have been difficult in the United States. Recently though, state governments have attempted to re-investigate and re-try past hate crimes. One prominent example is Mississippi's decision in 1990 to retry Byron De La Beckwith for the murder of Medgar Evers, a prominent figure in the NAACP. This would be the first time in U.S. history that an unresolved civil rights case would be re-opened. Byron De La Beckwith, a member of the Ku Klux Klan, was tried for the murder on two previous occasions and it resulted with a hung jury. However, he was finally sentenced to life in prison in 1994. Presented with testimony of two FBI informants who had infiltrated the KKK, the missing transcript from the first trial, the relocation of missing witnesses, numerous witness admissions of Beckwith bragging about his role in the murder and Beckwith's own racist writings, a mixed race jury found Beckwith guilty of murder. Even though De La Beckwith was 73 years of age when he was sentenced to life in prison, the 1994 conviction has been interpreted as a way for Mississippi to shed its racist past.\n\nAccording to a November 2016 report issued by the FBI hate crime statistics are on the rise in the United States. The number of hate crimes increased from 5,850 in 2015, to 6,121 hate crime incidents in 2016, an increase of 4.6 percent.\n\nOne of the largest waves of hate crimes took place during the civil rights movement. During the 1950s and 1960s, both violence and threats of violence were common against African Americans, and hundreds of lives were lost due to such acts. Members of this social class faced violence from groups such as the Ku Klux Klan as well as violence from individuals who were committed to maintaining segregation. At the time, civil rights leaders such as Martin Luther King Jr. and their supporters fought hard for the right of African Americans to vote as well as for equality in their everyday lives. African Americans have been the target of hate crimes since the Civil War, and the humiliation of this social class was also desired by many Anti-black individuals. Other frequently reported bias motivations were bias against a religion, bias against a particular sexual orientation, and bias against a particular ethnicity/national origin. At times, these bias motivations overlapped, because violence can be both anti-gay and anti-black, for example.\n\nAnalysts have compared groups in terms of the per capita rate of hate crimes committed against them, to allow for differing populations.\nOverall, the total number of hate crimes committed since the first hate crime bill was passed in 1997 is 86,582. David Ray Hate Crimes Prevention Act\nAmong the groups currently mentioned in the Hate Crimes Statistics Act, the largest number of hate crimes are committed against African Americans. During the Civil Rights Movement, some of the most notorious hate crimes included the 1968 assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., the 1964 murders of Charles Moore and Henry Dee, the 1963 16th Street Baptist Church bombing, the 1955 murder of Emmett Till, as well as the burning of crosses, churches, Jewish synagogues and other places of worship of minority religions. Such acts began to take place more frequently after the racial integration of many schools and public facilities.\n\nHigh-profile murders targeting victims based on their sexual orientation have prompted the passage of hate crimes legislation, notably the cases of Sean W. Kennedy and Matthew Shepard. Kennedy's murder was mentioned by Senator Gordon Smith in a speech on the floor of the US Senate while he advocated such legislation. The Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act was signed into law in 2009. It included sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, the disabled, and military personnel and their family members. This is the first all-inclusive bill ever passed in the United States, taking 45 years to complete.\n\nGender-based crimes may also be considered hate crimes. This view would designate rape and domestic violence, as well as non-interpersonal violence against women such as the École Polytechnique massacre in Quebec, as hate crimes.\n\nIn May 2018, \"ProPublica\" reviewed police reports for 58 cases of purported anti-heterosexual hate crimes. \"ProPublica\" found that about half of the cases were anti-LGBT hate crimes that had been miscategorized, and that the rest were motivated by hate towards Jews, blacks or women or that there was no element of a hate crime at all. \"ProPublica\" found not a single case of a hate crime spurred by anti-heterosexual bias.\n\nIn Brazil, hate crime laws focus on racism, racial injury, and other special bias-motivated crimes such as, for example, murder by death squads and genocide on the grounds of nationality, ethnicity, race or religion. Murder by death squads and genocide are legally classified as \"hideous crimes\" (\"crimes hediondos\" in Portuguese).\n\nThe crimes of racism and racial injury, although similar, are enforced slightly differently. Article 140, 3rd paragraph, of the Penal Code establishes a harsher penalty, from a minimum of 1 year to a maximum of 3 years, for injuries motivated by \"elements referring to race, color, ethnicity, religion, origin, or the condition of being an aged or disabled person\". On the other side, Law 7716/1989 covers \"crimes resulting from discrimination or prejudice on the grounds of race, color, ethnicity, religion, or national origin\".\n\nIn addition, the Brazilian Constitution defines as a \"fundamental goal of the Republic\" (Article 3rd, clause IV) \"to promote the well-being of all, with no prejudice as to origin, race, sex, color, age, and any other forms of discrimination\".\n\nIn 2012, the Anti-discrimination law amended the Criminal Code adding a new aggravating circumstance of criminal responsibility, as follows: \"Committing or participating in a crime motivated by ideology, political opinion, religion or beliefs of the victim; nation, race, ethnic or social group; sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, affiliation, personal appearance or suffering from illness or disability.\"\n\n3.4.1. Israel\nIsrael is the only country in the middle east who has hate crime laws. Hate crime, as passed by the Isreli Knesset (Parliament), is defined as crime for reason of race, religion, gender and sexual orientation\n\nJustifications for harsher punishments for hate crimes focus on the notion that hate crimes cause greater individual and societal harm. It is said that, when the core of a person's identity is attacked, the degradation and dehumanization is especially severe, and additional emotional and physiological problems are likely to result. Society then, in turn, can suffer from the disempowerment of a group of people. Furthermore, it is asserted that the chances for retaliatory crimes are greater when a hate crime has been committed. The riots in Los Angeles, California that followed the beating of Rodney King, a Black motorist, by a group of White police officers are cited as support for this argument. The beating of white truck driver Reginald Denny by black rioters during the same riot is also an example that supports this argument.\n\nIn \"Wisconsin v. Mitchell\", the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously found that \"penalty-enhancement\" hate crime statutes do not conflict with free speech rights, because they do not punish an individual for exercising freedom of expression; rather, they allow courts to consider motive when sentencing a criminal for conduct which is not protected by the First Amendment. Whilst in the case of \"Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire\" the court defined \"fighting words\" as \"those which by their very utterance inflict injury or tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace.\"\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court unanimously found the St. Paul Bias-Motivated Crime Ordinance amounted to viewpoint-based discrimination is in conflict with rights of free speech, because it selectively criminalized bias-motivated speech or symbolic speech for disfavored topics while permitting such speech for other topics. Many critics further assert that it conflicts with an even more fundamental right: free thought. The claim is that hate-crime legislation effectively makes certain ideas or beliefs, including religious ones, illegal, in other words, thought crimes.\n\nIn their book \"Hate Crimes: Criminal Law and Identity Politics\", James B. Jacobs and Kimberly Potter criticize hate crime legislation for exacerbating conflicts between groups. They assert that by defining crimes as being committed by one group against another, rather than as being committed by individuals against their society, the labeling of crimes as \"hate crimes\" causes groups to feel persecuted by one another, and that this impression of persecution can incite a backlash and thus lead to an actual increase in crime. Jacobs and Potter also argued that hate crime legislation can end up only covering the victimization of some groups rather than all, which is a form of discrimination itself and that attempts to remedy this by making all identifiable groups covered by hate crime protection thus make hate crimes co-terminus with generic criminal law. The authors also suggest that arguments which attempt to portray hate crimes as worse than normal crimes because they spread fear in a community are unsatisfactory, as normal criminal acts can also spread fear yet only hate crimes are singled out. Indeed it has been argued that victims have varied reactions to hate crimes, so it is no necessarily true that hate crimes are regarded as more harmful than other crimes. Heidi Hurd argues that hate crime represents an effort by the state to encourage a certain moral character in its citizen and thus represents the view that the instillation of virtue and the elimination of vice are legitimate state goals, which she argues is a contradiction of the principles of liberalism. \n\nSome have argued hate crime laws bring the law into disrepute and further divide society, as groups apply to have their critics silenced. American forensic psychologist Karen Franklin said that the term \"hate crime\" is somewhat misleading since it assumes there is a hateful motivation which is not present in many occasions; in her view, laws to punish people who commit hate crimes may not be the best remedy for preventing them because the threat of future punishment does not usually deter such criminal acts. Some on the political left have been critical of hate crime laws for expanding the criminal justice system and dealing with violence against minority groups through punitive measures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51289992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51289992", "title": "ISO 10014", "text": "ISO 10014\n\nISO 10014:2006 Quality management – Guidelines for realizing financial and economic benefits with ISO 9001:2000 is an ISO standard intended to provide \"clear guidelines on achieving financial and economic benefits\" from the application of the ISO 9000 quality management principles.\n\nAccording to the ISO:\n\nA predecessor standard, \"PD ISO/TR 10014:1998 Guidelines for managing the economics of quality\" was withdrawn with the adoption of ISO 10014:2006.\n"}
{"id": "54008163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54008163", "title": "Industrial artificial intelligence", "text": "Industrial artificial intelligence\n\nIndustrial artificial intelligence, or industrial AI, usually refers to the application of artificial intelligence to industry. Unlike general artificial intelligence which is a frontier research discipline to build computerized systems that perform tasks requiring human intelligence, industrial AI is more concerned with the application of such technologies to address industrial pain-points for customer value creation, productivity improvement, and insight discovery. Although in a dystopian vision of AI applications, intelligent machines may take away jobs of humans and cause social and ethical issues, industry in general holds a more positive view of AI and sees this transformation of economy unstoppable and expects huge business opportunities in this process.\n\nThe concept of artificial intelligence has been proposed around 1940s, and the idea of improving productivity and gaining insights through smart analytics and modeling is not new. Artificial Intelligence and Knowledge-Based systems has been an active research branch of artificial intelligence for the entire product life cycle for product design, production planning, distribution, and field services. E-manufacturing systems and e-factories did not use the term “AI,” but they scale up modeling of engineering systems to enable complete integration of elements in the manufacturing eco-system for smart operation management. Cloud Foundry service platforms widely embed the artificial intelligent technologies. Cybermanufacturing systems also apply predictive analytics and cyber-physical modeling to address the gap between production and machine health for optimized productivity.\n\nThere are several reasons for the recent popularity of industrial AI: More affordable sensors and the automated process of data acquisition; More powerful computation capability of computers to perform more complex tasks at a faster speed with lower cost; Faster connectivity infrastructure and more accessible cloud services for data management and computing power outsourcing. However, the technology alone never creates any business value if the problems in industry are not well studied. The major categories where industrial AI may contribute to are product and service innovation, process improvement, and insight discovery.\n\nIndustrial AI can be embedded to existing products or services to make them more effective, reliable, safer, and last longer. One example is the automobile industry uses vision recognition to avoid accidents, stay in lane, and use speech recognition to facilitate safer driving. In manufacturing, one example is the prediction of blade life for self-aware band saw machines, so that users will be able to rely on evidence of degradation rather than experience, which is safer, will extend blade life, and build up blade usage profile to help blade selection.\n\nIndustrial AI can create new products and novel business models. Predix by General Electric is a Cloud Foundry that serves as an industrial operating system for narrow AI application development. InsightCM™ by National Instruments and Watchdog Agent® Toolbox on the LabVIEW platform also provide software analytical capabilities. The aforementioned band saw machine manufacturer also announced their service center system to help users improve equipment reliability and sawing efficiency as a novel business model.\n\nAutomation is one of the major aspects in process applications of industrial AI. With the help of AI, the scope and pace of automation have been fundamentally changed. AI technologies boost the performance and expand the capability of conventional AI applications. An example is the collaborative robots. Collaborative robotic arms are able to learn the motion and path demonstrated by human operators and perform the same task. AI also automates the process that used to require human participation. An example is the Hong Kong subway, where an AI program decides the distribution and job scheduling of engineers with more efficiency and reliability than human counterparts do.\n\nAnother aspect of process applications is the modeling large-scale systems. Cybermanufacturing systems are defined as a manufacturing service system that is networked and resilient to faults by evidence-based modeling and data-driven deep learning. Such a system deals with large and usually geographically distributed assets, which is hard to be modeled via conventional individual-asset physics-based model. With machine learning and optimization algorithms, a bottom-up framework considering machine health can leverage large samples of assets and automate the operation management, spare part inventory planning, and maintenance scheduling process.\n\nIndustrial AI can also be used for knowledge discovery by identifying insights in engineering systems. In aviation and aeronautics, AI has been playing a vital role in many critical areas, one of which is safety assurance and root cause. NASA is trying to proactively manage risks to aircraft safety by analyzing flight numeric data and text reports in parallel to not only detect anomalies but also relate it to the causal factors. This mined insight of why certain faults happen in the past will shed light on predictions of similar incidents in the future and prevent problems before they occur.\n\nPredictive and preventive maintenance through data-driven machine learning is also critical in cost reduction for industrial applications. Prognostics and health management (PHM) programs capture the opportunities at the shop floor by modeling equipment health degradation. The obtained information can be used for efficiency improvement and quality improvement. Please see intelligent maintenance system for more reference.\n\nThe challenges of industrial AI to unlock the value lies in the transformation of raw data to intelligent predictions for rapid decision-making. In general, there are four major challenges in realizing industrial AI.\n\nEngineering systems now generate a lot of data and modern industry is indeed a big data environment. However, industrial data usually is structured, but may be low-quality. The “3B” issues of industrial big data is:\nThe quality of the data may be poor, and unlike other consumer-faced applications, data from industrial systems usually have clear physical meanings, which makes it harder to compensate the quality with volume.\nData collected for training machine learning models usually is lacking a comprehensive set of working conditions and health states/fault modes, which may cause false positives and false negatives in online implementation of AI systems.\nIndustrial data patterns can be highly transient and interpreting them requires domain expertise, which can hardly be harnessed by merely mining numeric data.\n\nProduction process happens fast and the equipment and work piece can be expensive, the AI applications need to be applied in real-time to be able to detect anomalies immediately to avoid waste and other consequences. Cloud-based solutions can be powerful and fast, but they still would not fit certain computation efficiency requirements. Edge computing may be a better choice in such scenario.\n\nUnlike consumer-faced AI recommendations systems which have a high tolerance for false positives and negatives, even a very low rate of false positives or negatives rate may cost the total credibility of AI systems. Industrial AI applications are usually dealing with critical issues related to safety, reliability, and operations. Any failure in predictions could incur a negative economic and/or safety impact on the users and discourage them to rely on AI systems.\n\nBesides prediction accuracy and performance fidelity, the industrial AI systems must also go beyond prediction results and give root cause analysis for anomalies. This requires that during development, data scientists need to work with domain experts and include domain know-how into the modeling process, and have the model adaptively learn and accumulate such insights as knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "13363086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13363086", "title": "Inquest", "text": "Inquest\n\nAn inquest is a judicial inquiry in common law jurisdictions, particularly one held to determine the cause of a person's death. Conducted by a judge, jury, or government official, an inquest may or may not require an autopsy carried out by a coroner or medical examiner. Generally, inquests are conducted only when deaths are sudden or unexplained. An inquest may be called at the behest of a coroner, judge, prosecutor, or, in some jurisdictions, upon a formal request from the public. A coroner's jury may be convened to assist in this type of proceeding. \"Inquest\" can also mean such a jury and the result of such an investigation. In general usage, \"inquest\" is also used to mean any investigation or inquiry.\n\nAn inquest uses witnesses, but suspects are not permitted to defend themselves. The verdict can be, for example, natural death, accidental death, misadventure, suicide, or murder. If the verdict is murder or culpable accident, criminal prosecution may follow, and suspects are able to defend themselves there.\n\nSince juries are not used in most European civil law systems, these do not have any (jury) procedure similar to an inquest, but medical evidence and professional witnesses have been used in court in continental Europe for centuries.\n\nLarger inquests can be held into disasters, or in some jurisdictions (not England and Wales) into cases of corruption.\n\nThe inquest, as a means of settling a matter of fact, developed in Scandinavia and the Carolingian Empire before the end of the tenth century. It was the method of gathering the survey data for the Domesday Book in England after the Norman conquest. In his account of the culture of the Gauls (Commentarii de bello Gallico VI.19.3), Julius Caesar mentions a very early use of the procedure: \"if a matter comes into suspicion about a death, they hold an inquiry (a \"quaestio\") concerning the wives in the method used for slaves, and if guilt is established, they kill the wives, who have been tortured, with fire and all torments.\"\n\nIn England and Wales, all inquests were once conducted with a jury. They acted somewhat like a grand jury, determining whether a person should be committed to trial in connection to a death. Such a jury was made up of up to twenty-three men, and required the votes of twelve to render a decision. Similar to a grand jury, a coroner's jury merely accused, it did not convict.\n\nSince 1927, coroner's juries have rarely been used in England. Under the Coroners Act 1988, a jury is only required to be convened in cases where the death occurred in prison, police custody, or in circumstances which may affect public health or safety. The coroner can actually choose to convene a jury in any investigation, but in practice this is rare. The qualifications to sit on a coroner's jury are the same as those to sit on a jury in Crown Court, the High Court, and the county courts.\n\nAdditionally, a coroner's jury only determines cause of death, its ruling does not commit a person to trial. While grand juries, which did have the power to indict, were abolished in the United Kingdom by 1948 (after being effectively stopped in 1933), coroner's juries retained those powers until the Criminal Law Act 1977. This change came about after Lord Lucan was charged in 1975 by a coroner's jury in the death of Sandra Rivett, his children's nanny.\n\nThe charity INQUEST looks at inquest's concerning contentious deaths including those in places of detention, and has campaigned for reforms to the inquest and coroner's system in England and Wales.\n\nThere are no inquests or Coroners in Scotland, where sudden unnatural deaths are reported to, and investigated on behalf of, the Procurator Fiscal for an area. The Procurator Fiscal has a duty to investigate all sudden, suspicious, accidental, unexpected and unexplained deaths and any death occurring in circumstances that give rise to serious public concern. Where a death is reported, the Procurator Fiscal will investigate the circumstances of the death, attempt to find out the cause of the death and consider whether criminal proceedings or a Fatal Accident Inquiry is appropriate. In the majority of cases reported to the Procurator Fiscal, early enquiries rule out suspicious circumstances and establish that the death was due to natural causes.\n\nDeaths are usually brought to the attention of the Procurator Fiscal through reports from the police, the Registrar, GPs or hospital doctors. However, anyone who has concerns about the circumstances of a death can report it to the Procurator Fiscal. There are certain categories of deaths that must be enquired into, but the Procurator Fiscal may enquire into any death brought to his notice.\n\nIn the United States, inquests are generally conducted by coroners, who are generally officials of a county or city. These inquests are not themselves trials, but investigations. Depending on the state, they may be characterized as judicial, quasi-judicial, or non-judicial proceedings. Inquests, and the necessity for holding them, are matters of statutory law in the United States. Statutes may also regulate the requirement for summoning and swearing a coroner's jury. Inquests themselves generally are public proceedings, though the accused may not be entitled to attend. Coroners may compel witnesses to attend and give testimony at inquires, and may punish a witness for refusing to testify according to statute. Coroners are generally not bound by the jury's conclusion, and have broad discretion, which in many jurisdictions cannot be appealed. The effect of a coroner's verdict at common law was equivalent to a finding by a grand jury, whereas some statutes provide that a verdict makes the accused liable for arrest. Generally, the county or city is responsible for the fees of conducting an inquest, but some statutes have provided for the recovery of such costs. Whether the evidence presented at an inquest can be used in subsequent civil actions depends on the jurisdiction, though at common law, the inquest verdict was admissible to show cause of death. Coroners' reports and findings, on the other hand, are generally admissible.\n\nA coroner's jury deemed Wyatt Earp, Doc Holliday, and their posse guilty in the death of Frank Stilwell in March 1882.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41642017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41642017", "title": "Jamison family deaths", "text": "Jamison family deaths\n\nThe Jamison family of Eufaula, Oklahoma, United States, consisting of Bobby, his wife Sherilynn, and daughter Madyson, mysteriously disappeared on October 8, 2009, while their dog miraculously survived. The family was reportedly considering the purchase of a forty-acre plot of land near Red Oak, about thirty miles from Eufaula, at the time of their disappearance. Their suspected remains were found in November 2013, and were positively identified by the Oklahoma medical examiner on July 3, 2014. No cause of death was determined, and the circumstances surrounding their disappearance remain unanswered.\n\nThe initial investigation into the Jamison family's disappearance indicated that they had probably not vanished of their own accord. The Jamisons' pickup truck was discovered within a few days, abandoned in Latimer County, Oklahoma, a short distance south of the town of Kinta. The Jamisons' bodies were not found, but their malnourished dog was still in the truck. Also discovered were the Jamisons' IDs, wallets, mobile phones, a GPS system, and about $32,000 in cash. The Jamisons were known for carrying large amounts of cash with them.\n\nSeveral theories emerged about the family's disappearance, such as that they had faked their own deaths, were in witness protection, were murdered, or had committed group suicide. Shortly before the disappearance, Bobby Jamison was involved in a bitter lawsuit with his father, Bob Dean Jamison, claiming Bob Dean had threatened the family. Bobby stated his father had struck him with his vehicle on November 1, 2008 and was involved in gangs and meth. Police do not believe that Bobby's father was involved in the family's disappearance.\n\nAnother popular theory was that the Jamisons were involved in drug dealing. Investigators cited the large amount of cash found in the Jamisons' truck, and the apparent strange behavior exhibited by Bobby and Sherilynn shortly before they went missing. The Jamisons had reportedly told their pastor on separate occasions that they had seen spirits inside their home.\n\nThe skeletal remains of two adults and one child were discovered by two hunters in a remote spot on November 15–16, 2013, more than four years after the family went missing, and less than three miles away from where the family's pickup truck had been abandoned. The remains were widely presumed to be those of the missing family, though the Oklahoma medical examiner's office had to use anthropological and forensic pathological testing to identify them. Officials confirmed on July 3, 2014 that the remains belonged to the Jamisons. A cause of death was not determined due to the heavily decomposed state of the bodies.\n\nThe Jamison disappearance was profiled on the Investigation Discovery series \"Disappeared\" in late 2010, in an episode titled \"Paradise Lost\". In March 2018, the Jamison family was discussed on an episode of \"BuzzFeed Unsolved\", titled “The Disturbing Mystery of the Jamison Family”.\n\n"}
{"id": "3658404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658404", "title": "Kangling", "text": "Kangling\n\nKangling (), literally translated as \"leg\" (\"kang\") \"flute\" (\"ling\"), is the Tibetan name for a trumpet or horn made out of a human femur, used in Tibetan Buddhism for various chöd rituals as well as funerals performed by a chöpa. The femur of a criminal or a person who died a violent death is preferred. Alternatively, the femur of a respected teacher may be used. The kangling may also be made out of wood.\n\nThe kangling should only be used in chöd rituals performed outdoors with the chöd damaru and bell. In Tantric chöd practice, the practitioner, motivated by compassion, plays the kangling as a gesture of fearlessness, to summon hungry spirits and demons so that she or he may satisfy their hunger and thereby relieve their sufferings. It is also played as a way of \"cutting off of the ego.\"\n\nA minor figure from Katok Monastery, the First Chonyi Gyatso, Chopa Lugu (17th - mid-18th century), is remembered for his \"nightly bellowing of bone-trumpet [kangling] and shouting of phet\" on pilgrimage, much to the irritation of the business traveler who accompanied him. Chopa Lugu became renowned as \"The Chod Yogi Who Split a Cliff in China (rgya nag brag bcad gcod pa).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18739", "title": "Laika", "text": "Laika\n\nLaika (; c. 1954 – 3 November 1957) was a Soviet space dog who became one of the first animals in space, and the first animal to orbit the Earth. Laika, a stray dog from the streets of Moscow, was selected to be the occupant of the Soviet spacecraft Sputnik 2 that was launched into outer space on 3 November 1957.\n\nLittle was known about the impact of spaceflight on living creatures at the time of Laika's mission, and the technology to de-orbit had not yet been developed, so Laika's survival was never expected. Some scientists believed humans would be unable to survive the launch or the conditions of outer space, so engineers viewed flights by animals as a necessary precursor to human missions. The experiment aimed to prove that a living passenger could survive being launched into orbit and endure a micro-g environment, paving the way for human spaceflight and providing scientists with some of the first data on how living organisms react to spaceflight environments.\n\nLaika died within hours from overheating, possibly caused by a failure of the central R-7 sustainer to separate from the payload. The true cause and time of her death were not made public until 2002; instead, it was widely reported that she died when her oxygen ran out on day six or, as the Soviet government initially claimed, she was euthanised prior to oxygen depletion.\n\nOn 11 April 2008, Russian officials unveiled a monument to Laika. A small monument in her honour was built near the military research facility in Moscow that prepared Laika's flight to space. It portrayed a dog standing on top of a rocket. She also appears on the Monument to the Conquerors of Space in Moscow.\n\nAfter the success of Sputnik 1 in October 1957, Nikita Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, wanted a spacecraft launched on 7 November 1957, the 40th anniversary of the October Revolution. Construction had already started on a more sophisticated satellite, but it would not be ready until December; this satellite would later become Sputnik 3.\n\nMeeting the November deadline meant building a new craft. Khrushchev specifically wanted his engineers to deliver a \"space spectacular\", a mission that would repeat the triumph of Sputnik 1, stunning the world with Soviet prowess. Planners settled on an orbital flight with a dog. Soviet rocket engineers had long intended a canine orbit before attempting human spaceflight; since 1951, they had lofted 12 dogs into sub-orbital space on ballistic flights, working gradually toward an orbital mission set for some time in 1958. To satisfy Khrushchev's demands, they expedited the orbital canine flight for the November launch.\n\nAccording to Russian sources, the official decision to launch Sputnik 2 was made on 10 or 12 October, leaving less than four weeks to design and build the spacecraft. Sputnik 2, therefore, was something of a rush job, with most elements of the spacecraft being constructed from rough sketches. Aside from the primary mission of sending a living passenger into space, Sputnik 2 also contained instrumentation for measuring solar irradiance and cosmic rays.\n\nThe craft was equipped with a life-support system consisting of an oxygen generator and devices to avoid oxygen poisoning and to absorb carbon dioxide. A fan, designed to activate whenever the cabin temperature exceeded , was added to keep the dog cool. Enough food (in a gelatinous form) was provided for a seven-day flight, and the dog was fitted with a bag to collect waste. A harness was designed to be fitted to the dog, and there were chains to restrict her movements to standing, sitting, or lying down; there was no room to turn around in the cabin. An electrocardiogram monitored heart rate and further instrumentation tracked respiration rate, maximum arterial pressure, and the dog's movements.\n\nLaika was found as a stray wandering the streets of Moscow. Soviet scientists chose to use Moscow strays since they assumed that such animals had already learned to endure conditions of extreme cold and hunger. This specimen was an five-kilogram (11-pound) mongrel female, approximately three years old. Another account reported that she weighed about . Soviet personnel gave her several names and nicknames, among them Kudryavka (Russian for \"Little Curly\"), Zhuchka (\"Little Bug\"), and Limonchik (\"Little Lemon\"). Laika, the Russian name for several breeds of dogs similar to the husky, was the name popularised around the world. The American press dubbed her Muttnik (\"mutt\" + suffix \"-nik\") as a pun on Sputnik, or referred to her as \"Curly\". Her true pedigree is unknown, although it is generally accepted that she was part husky or other Nordic breed, and possibly part terrier. NASA refers to Laika as a \"part-Samoyed terrier.\" A Russian magazine described her temperament as phlegmatic, saying that she did not quarrel with other dogs. Vladimir Yazdovsky, who led the program of test dogs used on rockets, in a later publication wrote that “Laika was quiet and charming”.\n\nThe Soviet Union and United States had previously sent animals only on sub-orbital flights. Three dogs were trained for the Sputnik 2 flight: Albina, Mushka, and Laika. Soviet space-life scientists Vladimir Yazdovsky and Oleg Gazenko trained the dogs.\n\nTo adapt the dogs to the confines of the tiny cabin of Sputnik 2, they were kept in progressively smaller cages for periods of up to 20 days. The extensive close confinement caused them to stop urinating or defecating, made them restless, and caused their general condition to deteriorate. Laxatives did not improve their condition, and the researchers found that only long periods of training proved effective. The dogs were placed in centrifuges that simulated the acceleration of a rocket launch and were placed in machines that simulated the noises of the spacecraft. This caused their pulses to double and their blood pressure to increase by 30–65 torr. The dogs were trained to eat a special high-nutrition gel that would be their food in space.\n\nBefore the launch, one of the mission scientists took Laika home to play with his children. In a book chronicling the story of Soviet space medicine, Dr. Vladimir Yazdovsky wrote, \"Laika was quiet and charming...I wanted to do something nice for her: She had so little time left to live.\"\n\nVladimir Yazdovsky made the final selection of dogs and their designated roles. Laika was to be the \"flight dog\"—a sacrifice to science on a one-way mission to space. Albina, who had already flown twice on a high-altitude test rocket, was to act as Laika's backup. The third dog Mushka was a \"control dog\"—she was to stay on the ground and be used to test instrumentation and life support.\n\nBefore leaving for the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Yazdovsky and Gazenko conducted surgery on the dogs, routing the cables from the transmitters to the sensors that would measure breathing, pulse, and blood pressure.\n\nBecause the existing airstrip at Turatam near the cosmodrome was small, the dogs and crew had to be first flown aboard a Tu-104 plane to Tashkent. From there, a smaller and lighter Il-14 plane took them to Turatam. Training of dogs continued upon arrival; one after another they were placed in the capsules to get familiar with the feeding system.\n\nAccording to a NASA document, Laika was placed in the capsule of the satellite on 31 October 1957—three days before the start of the mission. At that time of year, the temperatures at the launch site were extremely cold, and a hose connected to a heater was used to keep her container warm. Two assistants were assigned to keep a constant watch on Laika before launch. Just prior to liftoff on 3 November 1957, from Baikonur Cosmodrome, Laika's fur was sponged in a weak alcohol solution and carefully groomed, while iodine was painted onto the areas where sensors would be placed to monitor her bodily functions.\n\nOne of the technicians preparing the capsule before final liftoff stated that \"after placing Laika in the container and before closing the hatch, we kissed her nose and wished her bon voyage, knowing that she would not survive the flight.\"\n\nThe exact time of the liftoff varies from source to source and is mentioned as 05:30:42 Moscow Time or 07:22 Moscow Time.\n\nAt peak acceleration Laika's respiration increased to between three and four times the pre-launch rate. The sensors showed her heart rate was 103 beats/min before launch and increased to 240 beats/min during the early acceleration. After reaching orbit, Sputnik 2's nose cone was jettisoned successfully; however the \"Block A\" core did not separate as planned, preventing the thermal control system from operating correctly. Some of the thermal insulation tore loose, raising the cabin temperature to . After three hours of weightlessness, Laika's pulse rate had settled back to 102 beats/min, three times longer than it had taken during earlier ground tests, an indication of the stress she was under. The early telemetry indicated that Laika was agitated but eating her food. After approximately five to seven hours into the flight, no further signs of life were received from the spacecraft.\n\nThe Soviet scientists had planned to euthanise Laika with a poisoned serving of food. For many years, the Soviet Union gave conflicting statements that she had died either from asphyxia, when the batteries failed, or that she had been euthanised. Many rumours circulated about the exact manner of her death. In 1999, several Russian sources reported that Laika had died when the cabin overheated on the fourth orbit. In October 2002, Dimitri Malashenkov, one of the scientists behind the Sputnik 2 mission, revealed that Laika had died by the fourth circuit of flight from overheating. According to a paper he presented to the World Space Congress in Houston, Texas, \"It turned out that it was practically impossible to create a reliable temperature control system in such limited time constraints.\"\n\nOver five months later, after 2,570 orbits, Sputnik 2—including Laika's remains—disintegrated during re-entry on 14 April 1958.\n\nDue to the overshadowing issue of the Soviet vs. U.S. Space Race, the ethical issues raised by this experiment went largely unaddressed for some time. As newspaper clippings from 1957 show, the press was initially focused on reporting the political perspective, while the health and retrieval—or lack thereof—of Laika only became an issue later.\n\nSputnik 2 was not designed to be retrievable, and Laika had always been intended to die. The mission sparked a debate across the globe on the mistreatment of animals and animal testing in general to advance science. In the United Kingdom, the National Canine Defence League called on all dog owners to observe a minute's silence, while the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) received protests even before Radio Moscow had finished announcing the launch. Animal rights groups at the time called on members of the public to protest at Soviet embassies. Others demonstrated outside the United Nations in New York; nevertheless, laboratory researchers in the U.S. offered some support for the Soviets, at least before the news of Laika's death.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, there was less controversy. Neither the media, books in the following years, nor the public openly questioned the decision to send a dog into space. In 1998, after the collapse of the Soviet regime, Oleg Gazenko, one of the scientists responsible for sending Laika into space, expressed regret for allowing her to die:\nIn other Warsaw Pact countries, open criticism of the Soviet space program was difficult because of political censorship, but there were notable cases of criticism in Polish scientific circles. A Polish scientific periodical, \"Kto, Kiedy, Dlaczego\" (\"Who, When, Why\"), published in 1958, discussed the mission of Sputnik 2. In the periodical's section dedicated to astronautics, Krzysztof Boruń described the Sputnik 2 mission as \"regrettable\" and criticised not bringing Laika back to Earth alive as \"undoubtedly a great loss for science\".\n\nLaika is memorialised in the form of a statue and plaque at Star City, Russia, the Russian Cosmonaut training facility. Created in 1997, Laika is positioned behind the cosmonauts with her ears erect. The Monument to the Conquerors of Space, constructed in 1964, also includes Laika. On 11 April 2008 at the military research facility where staff had been responsible for readying Laika for the flight, officials unveiled a monument of her poised on top of a space rocket. Stamps and envelopes picturing Laika were produced, as well as branded cigarettes and matches.\n\nFuture space missions carrying dogs would be designed to be recovered. Four other dogs died in Soviet space missions: Bars and Lisichka were killed when their R-7 rocket exploded shortly after launch on 28 July 1960; Pchyolka and Mushka died when Korabl-Sputnik 3 was purposely destroyed with an explosive charge to prevent foreign powers from inspecting the capsule after a wayward atmospheric reentry trajectory on 1 December 1960.\n\nAlthough never shown, Laika is prominently mentioned in the 1985 film \"My Life as a Dog\", in which the main character (a young Swedish boy in the late 1950s) identifies strongly with the dog. \"Laika\", a 2007 graphic novel by Nick Abadzis giving a fictionalized account of Laika's life, won the Eisner Award as \"Best Publication for Teens\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24084341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24084341", "title": "Malcolm Isbister", "text": "Malcolm Isbister\n\nMalcolm Scarth Isbister (August 31, 1850 – June 30, 1920) was a Scottish-born merchant and political figure in Saskatchewan, Canada. He served as mayor of Saskatoon in 1905.\n\nHe was born in the Orkney Islands, the son of John Isbister, and came to Galt, Canada West with his parents in 1857. Isbister was educated in Huron County and at the normal school in Toronto. He taught school in Ontario for a number of years. In 1874, Isbister married Margaret Sharpe.\n\nHe worked as a contractor for the Canadian Pacific Railway in 1883, then entered business as the junior partner with his brother Adam Isbister in Petrolia and Port Arthur where they purchased the stock and goodwill of merchant Noah Keen Street in November 1884. The firm assigned to its creditors after the death of Adam Isbister in March 1890. Isbister operated a hotel in Souris, Manitoba from 1892 to 1894 and then in Wawanesa from 1897 to 1903. He then moved to Saskatoon, where he opened a hardware business. Isbister served as town coroner, postmaster and as a member of the board of governors for the Saskatoon City Hospital. He was also president of the Board of Trade for several years.\n"}
{"id": "4421073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4421073", "title": "Milo McCarger", "text": "Milo McCarger\n\nMilo McCarger (c.1798 – January 14, 1860) was a farmer and political figure in Upper Canada.\n\nHe settled in South Gower Township and then Mountain Township. He served in the local militia and fought at the Battle of the Windmill. He served as coroner in the Johnstown District. He was elected to the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada for Grenville in an 1839 by-election after Hiram Norton resigned from his seat.\n\nHe died in Kemptville in 1860.\n\n"}
{"id": "38583369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38583369", "title": "Montague Levine", "text": "Montague Levine\n\nSir Montague Bernard Levine \n\nHe was born in Manchester, the son of immigrants from Eastern Europe. During World War II he worked as an industrial chemist specialising in rubber products. In 1945, following his discharge, he bought a company that made balloons and condoms. He sold the firm in 1948 to the British Oxygen Company, and then trained as a doctor.\n\nHe was later the coroner for Inner South London, covering several major hospitals, Brixton prison and Belmarsh high security jail. He presided over about 500 inquests a year.\n\nHe received his knighthood in Callaghan's resignation honours.\n\n"}
{"id": "25780035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25780035", "title": "Noël Doiron", "text": "Noël Doiron\n\nNoël Doiron (Port-Royal, 1684 – December 13, 1758) was a leader of the Acadians, renown for the decisions he made during the Deportation of the Acadians. Doiron was deported on a vessel named the \"Duke William\" (1758). The sinking of the \"Duke William\" was one of the worst marine disasters in Canadian history. The captain of the \"Duke William\", William Nichols, described Noel Doiron as the \"head prisoner\" on board the ship and as the \"father\" to all the Acadians on Ile St. Jean (present-day Prince Edward Island).\n\nSecond only to Evangeline, the most well known Acadian story of the Victorian era was that of Noel Doiron. For his \"noble resignation\" and self-sacrifice aboard the \"Duke William\", Doiron was celebrated in popular print throughout the 19th century in England and America. Doiron also is the namesake of the village Noel, Nova Scotia and the surrounding communities of Noel Shore, East Noel (also known as Densmore Mills), Noel Road and North Noel Road.\n\nNoel Doiron was born at Port Royal, Acadia but he lived most of his childhood at Pisiquid in the Parish of St. Famille (present day Falmouth, Nova Scotia).\n\nDuring Queen Anne's War, Noel Doiron was taken as a prisoner of war to Boston by Colonel Benjamin Church. In February 1704, New France orchestrated a raid on Deerfield, Massachusetts. During the raid, New England prisoners were taken back to Quebec. One of the prisoners taken was John Williams. Five months later Church was sent to Acadia to retaliate for the raid and to capture prisoners to ransom the release of those taken in Quebec. In June 1704, Church came from Boston with 17 vessels and 550 men. He torched Acadian hamlets in an expedition that raided Grand Pré, Pisiguit, and Beaubassin. When Church returned to New England, he boasted that only five dwellings remained in all Acadia. He also took 45 prisoners, two of which were Noel Doiron, age 20, and his future wife Marie Henry.\n\nWhile forcibly removed from their homes, Doiron, Marie and the other Acadian hostages were initially permitted to roam freely in the streets of Boston, much to the dismay of New Englanders. On November 14, 1704 the Massachusetts House of Representatives expressed the opinion that the Acadians in the town were \"under little or no restraint, which this House apprehend not safe.\" The House demanded the hostages be imprisoned at Castle Island, just off the shore of Boston, and Fort Hill. Apparently, the prisoners were not immediately arrested because on November 24, 1704, the Boston selectmen requested of the Governor of Massachusetts \"to restrain the French Prisoners from going about the town at their own pleasure, least their so doing may prove hazardous to this town.\"\n\nThe first group of Acadian prisoners were returned to Acadia in 1705. Noel and Marie Doiron were delayed in returning because the New Englanders refused to release the notorious privateer Pierre Maisonnat dit Baptiste until John Williams was released. After two years in exile, Noel Doiron and the other Acadian prisoners finally returned to Acadia along with Pierre Masonnait. They arrived at Port Royal on September 18, 1706. Within three days of their arrival, Noel and Marie had their first child, who was born while imprisoned in Boston, and baptized at Port Royal. A marriage ceremony quickly followed.\n\nBy 1714, Doiron and his family were established in Noel, Nova Scotia. The Doiron family grew to include five sons and three daughters—one son died in Vila Noel before 1746. The three daughters would marry and leave the village while the surviving sons married and remained with their parents. Doiron lived in the village for 40 years. During that time he and his family built dykes that still exist in the community as well as a chapel at Burntcoat Head, Nova Scotia (formerly known as Steeple Point). As with most Acadians in the Cobequid region, Noel was likely a cattle farmer involved in supporting trade with the French Fortress of Louisbourg.\n\nDuring King George's War, Doiron was involved in the aftermath of the Battle of Grand Pré. Upon wounded French soldiers returning to Chignecto, they stopped at the village of Noel. There they were met by Doiron's priest and taken care of until they continued their journey.\n\nEarly in Father Le Loutre's War, the British established Halifax and built fortifications in all the major Acadian Communities. Shortly after, Noel's priest was arrested by the British and marched to Halifax. In response to the war and the British taking firm control over Acadia, the inhabitants of the parish sent a request for assistance to Acadians residing in Beaubassin. The message stated that British soldiers,\n... came furtively during the night to take our pastor and our four deputies ... [A British officer] read the orders by which he was authorized to seize all the muskets in our houses, thereby reducing us to the condition of the Irish ... Thus we see ourselves on the brink of destruction, liable to be captured and transported to the English islands and to lose our religion. \"\nEarly in 1750, Noel Doiron and his family joined the Acadian Exodus and left mainland Nova Scotia for Pointe Prime, Ile St. Jean (present day Eldon, Prince Edward Island).\n\nNoel and Marie Doiron spent eight years at Pointe Prime, Ile St. Jean. Life there was difficult. The summer before the Noel Bay settlers arrived, a field mouse infestation had destroyed the crops on the island. The next summer a plague of locusts appeared and the following summer brought with it a blistering drought. The census of 1752 reported: \"the greater number amongst them had not even bread to eat ... [many] subsisted on the shell fish they gathered on the shores of the harbour when the tide was out.\" Food shortages were exacerbated when the French government ordered Acadians to cease fishing and focus exclusively on crop production—crops were required for troops at Louisbourg. Faced with severe food shortages, the officials of Ile St. Jean pleaded for assistance from Louisburg, Quebec and France.\n\nIn 1752, the former residents of the Noel Bay settlement were joined at Pointe Prime by their former priest, Jacques Girard. Two years earlier, in March 1750, when Governor Edward Cornwallis arrested Girard, he confined him to the Governor's home in Halifax. Girard was charged with providing aid to representatives of the French Crown. After giving an oath to Cornwallis that he would never return to the Cobequid, Girard was reassigned to the Piziquid (present day Windsor, Nova Scotia). He resumed his priestly duties until he was \"rescued\" by forces loyal to the French Crown and transported to Point Prime on Ile St. Jean. In a letter dated August 24, 1753, Girard wrote on the plight of the Pointe Prime Acadians:\nOur refugees ... this winter will not be in any condition to work, they lack tools, they cannot find shelter from the rigor of the cold by day or night. Most of the children are so naked that they cannot hide it. And when I come into the houses, they are all in the ashes near the fire, they hide and take flight without shoes, without stockings, without shirts and all are not reduced to such extremity but almost all of them are miserable.\nOn October 27, 1753, Girard wrote that the situation remained unchanged. Despite these deprivations, the inhabitants of Pointe Prime were able to construct a parish church and a parochial home at their own expense.\n\nDuring the French and Indian War, the British began the Expulsion of the Acadians from mainland Nova Scotia in 1755. Many Acadians fled to Ile Saint Jean, putting further stress on scarce resources. A year later, in 1756, the continued famine on Ile St. Jean prompted authorities to relocate families to Quebec. This year of severe famine also marked the death of a Pointe Prime resident: one of Doiron's daughters-in-law. \n\nIn 1758, after the Siege of Louisbourg (1758), the British began the Ile Saint-Jean Campaign to expel the Acadians, including Noel Doiron and his family, from Ile Saint Jean. The British authorities had given up on their earlier attempts to assimilate the Acadians into the American colonies and now wanted them returned directly to France. Approximately 4,600 Acadians lived on Ile St. Jean: a third were deported to France, a third eluded their British captors, and a third died en route to France.\n\nOn October 20, 1758, Noel Doiron and most of the other inhabitants from the Noel Bay embarked for passage from Ile St. Jean to France on the \"Duke William\". Captain William Nichols' account of the voyage across the Atlantic notes that the \"Duke William\" sprang a leak on the fifth day after leaving for France. The leak was sealed after nine days; however, on December 11 a more serious leak was discovered that threatened to compromise the completion of the voyage. The next day, those aboard the \"Duke William\" witnessed the sinking of the transport vessel \"Violet\" and the loss of 300 other Acadians who were on board.\n\nOn December 13, two vessels approached the \"Duke William\". Believing help had arrived, all assumed their ordeal had concluded. It was stated in one report, that upon seeing the approaching vessels, Noel Doiron gripped the Captain \"in his aged arms and cried for joy.\" The two vessels, however, refused to provide assistance and continued on their way. According to Nichols, Doiron again embraced the captain and requested that he, the captain, \"... and his people [the crew] ... endeavor to save their own lives in their boats, and leave them [the Acadians] to their fate, as it was impossible the boats could carry all.\" Two lifeboats were on board and these were lowered into the North Atlantic carrying only the captain, his crew, and the parish priest.\n\nCaptain Nichols later recorded that during the departure Doiron reprimanded a fellow Acadian for trying to board a lifeboat while abandoning his wife and children. Captain Nichols records Doiron's final encounter with his priest Girard: \"the priest went and gave his people his benediction: then, after saluting the old gentleman [Noel Doiron], he tucked up his canonical robes, and went in the boat.\" The captain reported that Doiron and the other Acadians \"in their last moments ... behaved with the greatest fortitude.\" The Captain recorded that he and Doiron took \"... leave of each other with tears in their eyes, and the captain requested that his people keep the boats near the ship, which he was determined not to quit himself until it was dark.\"\n\nDoiron's priest Girard wrote that he \"laid off the ship about half an hour, when their cries, and waving us to be gone, almost broke our hearts.\" The \"Duke William\" drifted, according to Girard, \"till it fell calm, and as [it] went down her decks blew up. The noise was like the explosion of a gun, or a loud clap of thunder.\" The \"Duke William\" sank about 20 leagues from the coast of France in the English Channel shortly after 4:00 p.m. on December 13, 1758. Noel Doiron died on board along with his wife, Marie, five of their children with their spouses and over thirty grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4838687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4838687", "title": "Orang Minyak", "text": "Orang Minyak\n\nIn Malay ghost beliefs, The Orang Minyak is a supernatural creature coated with shiny black grease who abducts young women by night. Orang Minyak literally means oily man in Malay.\n\nAccording to Malay legend, Orang Minyak is a creature that abducts young women by night. Supposedly, the creature is able to climb walls and grab victims while evading capture due to its slippery coating. According to some folklorists, the Orang Minyak has been alternately described as appearing naked, or wearing \"a black pair of swimming trunks\". A number of stories describe the Orang Minyak as a rapist that only targets virgins. The Orang Minyak has been traditionally blamed for rapes, beginning in the 1950s, and superstitious Malay female students would attempt to ward off the creature by donning sweaty clothing \"to give the appearance of someone who had just been with a man\".\n\nSome versions of the legend hold that the Orang Minyak is an evil human warlock rather than a supernatural creature. Science writer Benjamin Radford described the tales as \"rooted in myth and folklore\" and characterized the creature's supposed abilities as \"implausible\". According to Radford, \"if a person actually covered himself that way, greasy hands and feet would make it difficult to turn doorknobs or run around, not to mention crawl up the sides of buildings or grab a struggling captive\".\n\nIn one version of the legend, popularised in the 1958film \"Sumpah Orang Minyak\" (\"The Curse of the Oily Man\") directed by and starring P. Ramlee, the Orang Minyak was a man who was cursed in an attempt to win back his love with magic. According to the story, the devil offered to help the creature and give him powers of the black arts, but only if the Orang Minyak worshipped him and raped 21 virgins within a week. In another version, the creature is under control of an evil \"shaman\" or witch doctor.\n\nMalaysian newspapers occasionally report claimed sightings of the Orang Minyak. In 2012, the residents in Kampung (Village) Laksamana, in Gombak, Selangor, Malaysia, claimed to have seen and heard the creature in the vicinity of the Pangsapuri Laksamana and Jalan Laksamana. Several years earlier, local newspapers carried sensational reports of a knife-welding rapist covered in oil, ostensibly in imitation of the Orang Minyak.\n\nThe legend has appeared in a number of films, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48966904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48966904", "title": "Paleophycology", "text": "Paleophycology\n\nPaleophycology (also once known as paleoalgology) is the subdiscipline of paleobotany that deals with the study and identification of fossil algae and their evolutionary relationships and ecology.\n\nThe field is very important in the science of paleolimnology as the algae leave many indicators of fossil ecosystems. Primary and most familiar are both fossil shells from diatoms and biogeochemical traces of algal pigments in lake sediments. These fossils are clues to changes in nutrient availability and ecology of lakes.\n\nSome paleophycologists:\n\n"}
{"id": "24743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24743", "title": "Pessimism", "text": "Pessimism\n\nPessimism is a mental attitude in which an undesirable outcome is anticipated from a given situation. Pessimists tend to focus on the negatives of life in general. A common question asked to test for pessimism is \"Is the glass half empty or half full?\"; in this situation a pessimist is said to see the glass as half empty, while an optimist is said to see the glass as half full. Throughout history, the pessimistic disposition has had effects on all major areas of thinking.\n\nPhilosophical pessimism is the related idea that views the world in a strictly anti-optimistic fashion. This form of pessimism is not an emotional disposition as the term commonly connotes. Instead, it is a philosophy or worldview that directly challenges the notion of progress and what may be considered the faith-based claims of optimism. Philosophical pessimists are often existential nihilists believing that life has no intrinsic meaning or value. Their responses to this condition, however, are widely varied and often life-affirming.\n\nThe term pessimism derives from the Latin word \"pessimus\" meaning 'the worst'. It was first used by Jesuit critics of Voltaire's 1759 novel 'Candide, ou l'Optimisme'. Voltaire was satirizing the philosophy of Leibniz who maintained that this was the 'best (optimum) of all possible worlds'. In their attacks on Voltaire, the Jesuits of the \"Revue de Trévoux\" accused him of \"pessimisme\".\n\nPhilosophical pessimism is not a state of mind or a psychological disposition, but rather it is a worldview or ethic that seeks to face up to the distasteful realities of the world and eliminate irrational hopes and expectations (such as the Idea of Progress and religious faith) which may lead to undesirable outcomes. Ideas which prefigure philosophical pessimism can be seen in ancient texts such as the Dialogue of Pessimism and Ecclesiastes (which maintains that everything is \"hevel\", literally 'vapor' or 'breath', but could also mean 'senseless' and 'absurd'.)\n\nIn Western philosophy, philosophical pessimism is not a single coherent movement, but rather a loosely associated group of thinkers with similar ideas and a family resemblance to each other. In \"Pessimism: Philosophy, Ethic, Spirit\", Joshua Foa Dienstag outlines the main propositions shared by most philosophical pessimists as \"that time is a burden; that the course of history is in some sense ironic; that freedom and happiness are incompatible; and that human existence is absurd.\"\n\nPhilosophical pessimists see the self-consciousness of man as bound up with his consciousness of time and that this leads to greater suffering than mere physical pain. While many organisms live in the present, humans and certain species of animals can contemplate the past and future, and this is an important difference. Human beings have foreknowledge of their own eventual fate and this \"terror\" is present in every moment of our lives as a reminder of the impermanent nature of life and of our inability to control this change.\n\nThe philosophical pessimistic view of the effect of historical progress tends to be more negative than positive. The philosophical pessimist does not deny that certain areas like science can \"progress\" but they deny that this has resulted in an overall improvement of the human condition. In this sense it could be said that the pessimist views history as ironic; while seemingly getting better, it is mostly in fact not improving at all, or getting worse. This is most clearly seen in Rousseau's critique of enlightenment civil society and his preference for man in the primitive and natural state. For Rousseau, \"our souls have become corrupted to the extent that our sciences and our arts have advanced towards perfection\".\n\nThe pessimistic view of the human condition is that it is in a sense \"absurd\". Absurdity is seen as an ontological mismatch between our desire for meaning and fulfillment and our inability to find or sustain those things in the world, or as Camus puts it: \"a divorce between man and his life, the actor and his setting\". The idea that rational thought would lead to human flourishing can be traced to Socrates and is at the root of most forms of western optimistic philosophies. Pessimism turns the idea on its head, it faults the human freedom to reason as the feature that misaligned humanity from our world and sees it as the root of human unhappiness.\n\nThe responses to this predicament of the human condition by pessimists are varied. Some philosophers, such as Schopenhauer and Mainländer, recommend a form of resignation and self-denial (which they saw exemplified in Indian religions and Christian monasticism). Some followers tend to believe that \"expecting the worst leads to the best.\" Rene Descartes even believed that life was better if emotional reactions to \"negative\" events were removed. Karl Robert Eduard von Hartmann asserted that with cultural and technological progress, the world and it's inhabitants will reach a state in which they will voluntarily embrace nothingness. Others like Nietzsche, Leopardi, Julius Bahnsen and Camus respond with a more life-affirming view, what Nietzsche called a \"Dionysian pessimism\", an embrace of life as it is in all of its constant change and suffering, without appeal to progress or hedonistic calculus. Albert Camus indicated that the common responses to the absurdity of life are often: Suicide, a leap of faith (as per Kierkegaard's knight of faith), or recognition/rebellion. Camus rejected all but the last option as unacceptable and inauthentic responses.\n\nPhilosophical pessimism has often been tied to the arts and literature. Schopenhauer's philosophy was very popular with composers (Wagner, Brahms and Mahler). Several philosophical pessimists also wrote novels or poetry (Camus and Leopardi respectively). A distinctive literary form which has been associated with pessimism is aphoristic writing, and this can be seen in Leopardi, Nietzsche and Cioran. Writers which could be said to express pessimistic views in their works or to be influenced by pessimistic philosophers include Miguel de Cervantes, Lord Byron, Charles Baudelaire, Gottfried Benn, Sadegh Hedayat, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Joseph Conrad, Charles Bukowski, Thomas Mann, Louis-Ferdinand Céline, Mihai Eminescu, Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Cormac McCarthy, Samuel Beckett, Dino Buzzati, Jorge Luis Borges, H. P. Lovecraft, Michel Houellebecq, Thomas Ligotti, Thomas Bernhard and Camilo Pessanha.\n\nIn \"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\", Friedrich Nietzsche argued that the pre-Socratic philosophers such as Anaximander, Heraclitus (called \"the Weeping Philosopher\") and Parmenides represented a classical form of pessimism. Nietzsche saw Anaximander's philosophy as the \"enigmatic proclamation of a true pessimist\". Similarly, of Heraclitus' philosophy of flux and strife he wrote:\nHeraclitus denied the duality of totally diverse worlds—a position which Anaximander had been compelled to assume. He no longer distinguished a physical world from a metaphysical one, a realm of definite qualities from an undefinable \"indefinite.\" And after this first step, nothing could hold him back from a second, far bolder negation: he altogether denied being. For this one world which he retained [...] nowhere shows a tarrying, an indestructibility, a bulwark in the stream. Louder than Anaximander, Heraclitus proclaimed: \"I see nothing other than becoming. Be not deceived. It is the fault of your short-sightedness, not of the essence of things, if you believe you see land somewhere in the ocean of becoming and passing-away. You use names for things as though they rigidly, persistently endured; yet even the stream into which you step a second time is not the one you stepped into before.\" \"The Birth of Tragedy. 5, pp. 51–52\" \nAnother Greek expressed a form of pessimism in his philosophy: the ancient Cyrenaic philosopher Hegesias (290 BCE). Like later pessimists, Hegesias argued that lasting happiness is impossible to achieve and that all we can do is to try to avoid pain as much as possible.\nComplete happiness cannot possibly exist; for that the body is full of many sensations, and that the mind sympathizes with the body, and is troubled when that is troubled, and also that fortune prevents many things which we cherished in anticipation; so that for all these reasons, perfect happiness eludes our grasp.\nHegesias held that all external objects, events and actions are indifferent to the wise man, even death: \"for the foolish person it is expedient to live, but to the wise person it is a matter of indifference\". According to Cicero, Hegesias wrote a book called \"Death by Starvation\", which supposedly persuaded many people that death was more desirable than life. Because of this, Ptolemy II Philadelphus banned Hegesias from teaching in Alexandria.\n\nFrom the 3rd century BCE, Stoicism propounded as an exercise \"the premeditation of evils\"—concentration on worst possible outcomes.\n\nBaltasar Gracián (1601–1658) was Schopenhauer's favorite author and Gracián's novel \"El Criticón\" was his favorite book. Schopenhauer's pessimistic outlook was influenced by Gracián, and he translated Gracián's \"The Pocket Oracle and Art of Prudence\" into German. He praised Gracián for his aphoristic writing style (conceptismo) and often quoted him in his works. Gracian's novel \"El Criticón\" (The Critic) is an extended allegory of the human search for happiness which turns out to be fruitless on this Earth. \"The Critic\" paints a bleak and desolate picture of the human condition. His \"Pocket Oracle\" was a book of aphorisms on how to live in what he saw as a world filled with deception, duplicity and disillusionment.\n\nVoltaire was the first European to be labeled as a pessimist due to his critique of Alexander Pope's optimistic \"An Essay on Man\", and Leibniz' affirmation that \"we live in the best of all possible worlds.\" Voltaire's novel Candide is an extended criticism of theistic optimism and his Poem on the Lisbon Disaster is especially pessimistic about the state of mankind and the nature of God. Though himself a Deist, Voltaire argued against the existence of a compassionate personal God through his interpretation of the problem of evil.\n\nThe major themes of philosophical pessimism were first presented by Rousseau and he has been called \"the patriarch of pessimism\". For Rousseau, humans in their \"natural goodness\" have no sense of self-consciousness in time and thus are happier than humans corrupted by society. Rousseau saw the movement out of the state of nature as the origin of inequality and mankind's lack of freedom. The wholesome qualities of man in his natural state, a non-destructive love of self and compassion are gradually replaced by \"amour propre\", a self-love driven by pride and jealousy of his fellow man. Because of this, modern man lives \"always outside himself\", concerned with other men, the future and external objects. Rousseau also blames the human faculty of \"perfectibility\" and human language for tearing us away from our natural state by allowing us to imagine a future in which we are different than what we are now and therefore making us appear inadequate to ourselves (and thus 'perfectible').\n\nRousseau saw the evolution of modern society as the replacement of natural egalitarianism by alienation and class distinction enforced by institutions of power. Thus \"The Social Contract\" opens with the famous phrase \"Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains.\" Even the ruling classes are not free, in fact for Rousseau they are \"greater slaves\" because they require more esteem from others to rule and must therefore constantly live \"outside themselves\".\n\nThough a lesser known figure outside Italy, Giacomo Leopardi was highly influential in the 19th century, especially for Schopenhauer and Nietzsche. In Leopardi's darkly comic essays, aphorisms, fables and parables, life is often described as a sort of divine joke or mistake. According to Leopardi, because of our conscious sense of time and our endless search for truth, the human desire for happiness can never be truly satiated and joy cannot last. Leopardi claims that \"Therefore they greatly deceive themselves, [those] who declare and preach that the perfection of man consists in knowledge of the truth and that all his woes proceed from false opinions and ignorance, and that the human race will at last be happy, when all or most people come to know the truth, and solely on the grounds of that arrange and govern their lives.\" Furthermore, Leopardi believes that for man it is not possible to forget truth and that \"it is easier to rid oneself of any habit before that of philosophizing.\"\n\nLeopardi's response to this condition is to face up to these realities and try to live a vibrant and great life, to be risky and take up uncertain tasks. This uncertainty makes life valuable and exciting but does not free us from suffering, it is rather an abandonment of the futile pursuit of happiness. He uses the example of Christopher Columbus who went on a dangerous and uncertain voyage and because of this grew to appreciate life more fully. Leopardi also sees the capacity of humans to laugh at their condition as a laudable quality that is able to help us deal with our predicament. For Leopardi: \"He who has the courage to laugh is master of the world, much like him who is prepared to die.\"\n\nArthur Schopenhauer's pessimism comes from his elevating of Will above reason as the mainspring of human thought and behavior. The Will is the ultimate metaphysical animating noumenon and it is futile, illogical and directionless striving. Schopenhauer sees reason as weak and insignificant compared to Will; in one metaphor, Schopenhauer compares the human intellect to a lame man who can see, but who rides on the shoulder of the blind giant of Will. Schopenhauer saw human desires as impossible to satisfy. \nHe pointed to motivators such as hunger, thirst and sexuality as the fundamental features of the Will in action, which are always by nature unsatisfactory.\n\nAll satisfaction, or what is commonly called happiness, is really and essentially always negative only, and never positive. It is not a gratification which comes to us originally and of itself, but it must always be the satisfaction of a wish. For desire, that is to say, want [or will], is the precedent condition of every pleasure; but with the satisfaction, the desire and therefore the pleasure cease; and so the satisfaction or gratification can never be more than deliverance from a pain, from a want. — \"The world as will and representation, pg 319\" \n\nSchopenhauer notes that once satiated, the feeling of satisfaction rarely lasts and we spend most of our lives in a state of endless striving, in this sense, we are, deep down nothing but Will. Even the moments of satisfaction, when repeated often enough, only lead to boredom and thus human existence is constantly swinging \"like a pendulum to and fro between pain and boredom, and these two are in fact its ultimate constituents\". This ironic cycle eventually allows us to see the inherent vanity at the truth of existence (\"nichtigkeit\") and to realize that \"the purpose of our existence is not to be happy\".\n\nMoreover, the business of biological life is a war of all against all filled with constant physical pain and distress, not merely unsatisfied desires. There is also the constant dread of death on the horizon to consider, which makes human life worse than animals. Reason only compounds our suffering by allowing us to realize that biology's agenda is not something we would have chosen had we been given a choice, but it is ultimately helpless to prevent us from serving it.\n\nSchopenhauer saw in artistic contemplation a temporary escape from the act of willing. He believed that through \"losing yourself\" in art one could sublimate the Will. However, he believed that only a resignation from the pointless striving of the will to life through a form of asceticism (as those practiced by eastern monastics and by \"saintly persons\") could free oneself from the Will altogether.\n\nSchopenhauer never used the term \"pessimism\" to describe his philosophy but he also didn't object when others called it that. Other common terms used to describe his thought were voluntarism and irrationalism which he also never used.\n\nDuring the endtimes of Schopenhauer's life and subsequent years after his death, post-Schopenhauerian pessimism became a rather popular \"trend\" in 19th century Germany. Nevertheless, it was viewed with disdain by the other popular philosophies at the time, such as Hegelianism, materialism, Neo-Kantianism and the emerging positivism. In an age of upcoming revolutions and exciting new discoveries in science, the resigned and a-progressive nature of the typical pessimist was seen as detriment to social development. To respond to this growing criticism, a group of philosophers greatly influenced by Schopenhauer (indeed, some even being his personal acquaintances) developed their own brand of pessimism, each in their own unique way. Thinkers such as Julius Bahnsen, Karl Robert Eduard von Hartmann, Philipp Mainländer and others cultivated the ever-increasing threat of pessimism by converting Schopenhauer's transcendental idealism into what Frederick C. Beiser calls transcendental realism. The transcendental idealist thesis is that we know only the appearances of things (not things-in-themselves), the transcendental realist thesis is that \"the knowledge we have of how things appear to us in experience gives us knowledge of things-in-themselves.\"\n\nBy espousing transcendental realism, Schopenhauer's own dark observations about the nature of the world would become completely knowable and objective, and in this way they would attain certainty. The certainty of pessimism being, that non-existence is preferable to existence. That, along with the metaphysical reality of the will, were the premises which the \"Post-Schopenhauerian\" thinkers inherited from the Frankfurt sage's teachings. After this common starting point, each philosopher developed his own negative view of being in their respective philosophies. Some pessimists would \"assuage\" the critics by accepting the validity of their criticisms and embracing historicism, as was the case with Schopenhauer's literary executor Julius Frauenstadt and with Karl Robert Eduard von Hartmann (who gave transcendental realism a unique twist). Julius Bahnsen would reshape the understanding of pessimism overall, while Philipp Mainländer set out to reinterpret and elucidate the nature of the will, by presenting it as a self-mortifying will-to-death.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche could be said to be a philosophical pessimist even though unlike Schopenhauer (whom he read avidly) his response to the 'tragic' pessimistic view is neither resigned nor self-denying, but a life-affirming form of pessimism. For Nietzsche this was a \"pessimism of the future\", a \"Dionysian pessimism.\" Nietzsche identified his Dionysian pessimism with what he saw as the pessimism of the Greek pre-socratics and also saw it at the core of ancient Greek tragedy. He saw tragedy as laying bare the terrible nature of human existence, bound by constant flux. In contrast to this Nietzsche saw Socratic philosophy as an optimistic refuge of those who could not bear the tragic any longer. Since Socrates posited that wisdom could lead to happiness, Nietzsche saw this as \"morally speaking, a sort of cowardice...amorally, a ruse\". Nietzsche was also critical of Schopenhauer's pessimism because in judging the world negatively, it turned to moral judgements about the world and therefore led to weakness and nihilism. Nietzsche's response was a total embracing of the nature of the world, a \"great liberation\" through a \"pessimism of strength\" which \"does not sit in judgement of this condition\". Nietzsche believed that the task of the philosopher was to wield this pessimism like a hammer, to first attack the basis of old moralities and beliefs and then to \"make oneself a new pair of wings\", i.e. to re-evaluate all values and create new ones. A key feature of this Dionysian pessimism was 'saying yes' to the changing nature of the world, this entailed embracing destruction and suffering joyfully, forever (hence the ideas of amor fati and eternal recurrence). Pessimism for Nietzsche is an art of living that is \"good for one's health\" as a \"remedy and an aid in the service of growing and struggling life\".\n\nIn a 1945 article, Albert Camus wrote \"the idea that a pessimistic philosophy is necessarily one of discouragement is a puerile idea.\" Camus helped popularize the idea of \"the absurd\", a key term in his famous essay \"The Myth of Sisyphus\". Like previous philosophical pessimists, Camus sees human consciousness and reason as that which \"sets me in opposition to all creation\". For Camus, this clash between a reasoning mind which craves meaning and a 'silent' world is what produces the most important philosophical problem, the 'problem of suicide'. Camus believed that people often escape facing the absurd through \"eluding\" (\"l'esquive\"), a 'trickery' for \"those who live not for life itself but some great idea that will transcend it, refine it, give it a meaning, and betray it\". He considered suicide and religion as inauthentic forms of eluding or escaping the problem of existence. For Camus, the only choice was to rebelliously accept and live with the absurd, for \"there is no fate that cannot be surmounted by scorn.\" Camus' response to the absurd problem is illustrated by using the Greek mythic character of Sisyphus, who was condemned by the gods to push a boulder up a hill for eternity. Camus imagines Sisyphus while pushing the rock, realizing the futility of his task, but doing it anyway out of rebellion: \"One must imagine Sisyphus happy.\"\n\nThere are several theories of epistemology which could arguably be said to be pessimistic in the sense that they consider it difficult or even impossible to obtain knowledge about the world. These ideas are generally related to nihilism, philosophical skepticism and relativism.\n\nFriedrich Heinrich Jacobi (1743–1819), analyzed rationalism, and in particular Immanuel Kant's \"critical\" philosophy in order to carry out a reductio ad absurdum according to which all rationalism reduces to nihilism, and thus it should be avoided and replaced with a return to some type of faith and revelation.\n\nRichard Rorty, Michel Foucault, and Ludwig Wittgenstein questioned whether our particular concepts could relate to the world in any absolute way and whether we can justify our ways of describing the world as compared with other ways. In general, these philosophers argue that truth was not about getting it right or representing reality, but was part of subjective social relations of power, or language-games that served our purposes in a particular time. Therefore, these forms of anti-foundationalism, while not being pessimistic per se, rejects any definitions that claims to have discovered absolute 'truths' or foundational facts about the world as valid.\n\nPhilosophical pessimism stands opposed to the optimism or even utopianism of Hegelian philosophies. Emil Cioran claimed \"Hegel is chiefly responsible for modern optimism. How could he have failed to see that consciousness changes only its forms and modalities, but never progresses?\" Philosophical pessimism is differentiated from other political philosophies by having no ideal governmental structure or political project, rather pessimism generally tends to be an anti-systematic philosophy of individual action. This is because philosophical pessimists tend to be skeptical that any politics of social progress can actually improve the human condition. As Cioran states, \"every step forward is followed by a step back: this is the unfruitful oscillation of history\". Cioran also attacks political optimism because it creates an \"idolatry of tomorrow\" which can be used to authorize anything in its name. This does not mean however, that the pessimist cannot be politically involved, as Camus argued in The Rebel.\n\nThere is another strain of thought generally associated with a pessimistic worldview, this is the pessimism of cultural criticism and social decline which is seen in Oswald Spengler's 'The Decline of the West'. Spengler promoted a cyclic model of history similar to the theories of Giambattista Vico. Spengler believed modern western civilization was in the 'winter' age of decline (\"untergang\"). Spenglerian theory was immensely influential in interwar Europe, especially in Weimar Germany. Similarly, traditionalist Julius Evola thought that the world was in the Kali Yuga, a dark age of moral decline.\n\nIntellectuals like Oliver James correlate economic progress with economic inequality, the stimulation of artificial needs, and affluenza. Anti-consumerists identify rising trends of conspicuous consumption and self-interested, image-conscious behavior in culture. Post-modernists like Jean Baudrillard have even argued that culture (and therefore our lives) now has no basis in reality whatsoever.\n\nConservative thinkers, especially social conservatives, often perceive politics in a generally pessimistic way. William F. Buckley famously remarked that he was \"standing athwart history yelling 'stop!'\" and Whittaker Chambers was convinced that capitalism was bound to fall to communism, though he was himself violently anti-communist. Social conservatives often see the West as a decadent and nihilistic civilization which has abandoned its roots in Christianity and/or Greek philosophy, leaving it doomed to fall into moral and political decay. Robert Bork's \"Slouching Toward Gomorrah\" and Allan Bloom's \"The Closing of the American Mind\" are famous expressions of this point of view.\n\nMany economic conservatives and libertarians believe that the expansion of the state and the role of government in society is inevitable, and they are at best fighting a holding action against it. They hold that the natural tendency of people is to be ruled and that freedom is an exceptional state of affairs which is now being abandoned in favor of social and economic security provided by the welfare state. Political pessimism has sometimes found expression in dystopian novels such as George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". Political pessimism about one's country often correlates with a desire to emigrate.\n\nDuring the financial crisis of 2007–08 in the United States, the neologism \"pessimism porn\" was coined to describe the alleged eschatological and survivalist thrill some people derive from predicting, reading and fantasizing about the collapse of civil society through the destruction of the world's economic system.\n\nTechnological pessimism is the belief that advances in science and technology do not lead to an improvement in the human condition. Technological pessimism can be said to have originated during the industrial revolution with the Luddite movement. Luddites blamed the rise of industrial mills and advanced factory machinery for the loss of their jobs and set out to destroy them. The Romantic movement was also pessimistic towards the rise of technology and longed for simpler and more natural times. Poets like William Wordsworth and William Blake believed that industrialization was polluting the purity of nature.\n\nSome social critics and environmentalists believe that globalization, overpopulation and the economic practices of modern capitalist states over-stress the planet's ecological equilibrium. They warn that unless something is done to slow this, climate change will worsen eventually leading to some form of social and ecological collapse. James Lovelock believes that the ecology of the Earth has already been irretrievably damaged, and even an unrealistic shift in politics would not be enough to save it. According to Lovelock, the Earth’s climate regulation system is being overwhelmed by pollution and the Earth will soon jump from its current state into a dramatically hotter climate. Lovelock blames this state of affairs on what he calls “polyanthroponemia”, which is when: “humans overpopulate until they do more harm than good.” Lovelock states:\n\nThe presence of 7 billion people aiming for first-world comforts…is clearly incompatible with the homeostasis of climate but also with chemistry, biological diversity and the economy of the system.\n\nSome radical environmentalists, anti-globalization activists, and Neo-luddites can be said to hold to this type of pessimism about the effects of modern \"progress\". A more radical form of environmental pessimism is anarcho-primitivism which faults the agricultural revolution with giving rise to social stratification, coercion, and alienation. Some anarcho-primitivists promote deindustrialization, abandonment of modern technology and rewilding.\n\nAn infamous anarcho-primitivist is Theodore Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber who engaged in a nationwide mail bombing campaign. In his 1995 manifesto, \"Industrial Society and Its Future\" he called attention to the erosion of human freedom by the rise of the modern \"industrial-technological system\". The manifesto begins thus: The Industrial Revolution and its consequences have been a disaster for the human race. They have greatly increased the life-expectancy of those of us who live in “advanced” countries, but they have destabilized society, have made life unfulfilling, have subjected human beings to indignities, have led to widespread psychological suffering (in the Third World to physical suffering as well) and have inflicted severe damage on the natural world. The continued development of technology will worsen the situation. It will certainly subject human beings to greater indignities and inflict greater damage on the natural world, it will probably lead to greater social disruption and psychological suffering, and it may lead to increased physical suffering even in “advanced” countries.\n\nOne of the most radical pessimist organizations is the voluntary human extinction movement which argues for the extinction of the human race through antinatalism.\n\nPope Francis' controversial 2015 encyclical on ecological issues is ripe with pessimistic assessments of the role of technology in the modern world.\n\n'Entropy pessimism' represents a special case of technological and environmental pessimism, based on thermodynamic principles. According to the first law of thermodynamics, matter and energy is neither created nor destroyed in the economy. According to the second law of thermodynamics — also known as the entropy law — what happens in the economy is that all matter and energy is transformed from states available for human purposes (valuable natural resources) to states unavailable for human purposes (valueless waste and pollution). In effect, all of man's technologies and activities are only speeding up the general march against a future planetary 'heat death' of degraded energy, exhausted natural resources and a deteriorated environment — a state of maximum entropy locally on earth; 'locally' on earth, that is, when compared to the heat death of the universe, taken as a whole.\n\nThe term 'entropy pessimism' was coined to describe the work of Romanian American economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, a progenitor in economics and the paradigm founder of ecological economics. Georgescu-Roegen made extensive use of the entropy concept in his magnum opus on \"The Entropy Law and the Economic Process\". Since the 1990s, leading ecological economist and steady-state theorist Herman Daly — a student of Georgescu-Roegen — has been the economists profession's most influential proponent of entropy pessimism. \n\nAmong other matters, the entropy pessimism position is concerned with the existential impossibility of allocating earth's finite stock of mineral resources evenly among an unknown number of present and future generations. This number of generations is likely to remain unknown to us, as there is no way — or only little way — of knowing in advance if or when mankind will ultimately face extinction. In effect, \"any\" conceivable intertemporal allocation of the stock will inevitably end up with universal economic decline at some future point. \n\nEntropy pessimism is a widespread view in ecological economics and in the degrowth movement.\n\nBibas writes that some criminal defense attorneys prefer to err on the side of pessimism: \"Optimistic forecasts risk being proven disastrously wrong at trial, an embarrassing result that makes clients angry. On the other hand, if clients plead based on their lawyers' overly pessimistic advice, the cases do not go to trial and the clients are none the wiser.\"\n\nIn the ancient world, psychological pessimism was associated with melancholy, and was believed to be caused by an excess of black bile in the body. \nThe study of pessimism has parallels with the study of depression. Psychologists trace pessimistic attitudes to emotional pain or even biology. Aaron Beck argues that depression is due to unrealistic negative views about the world. Beck starts treatment by engaging in conversation with clients about their unhelpful thoughts. Pessimists, however, are often able to provide arguments that suggest that their understanding of reality is justified; as in Depressive realism or (pessimistic realism). Deflection is a common method used by those who are depressed. They let people assume they are revealing everything which proves to be an effective way of hiding. The pessimism item on the Beck Depression Inventory has been judged useful in predicting suicides. The Beck Hopelessness Scale has also been described as a measurement of pessimism.\n\nWender and Klein point out that pessimism can be useful in some circumstances: \"If one is subject to a series of defeats, it pays to adopt a conservative game plan of sitting back and waiting and letting others take the risks. Such waiting would be fostered by a pessimistic outlook. Similarly if one is raking in the chips of life, it pays to adopt an expansive risk taking approach, and thus maximize access to scarce resources.\"\n\nThrough history, some have concluded that a pessimistic attitude, although justified, must be avoided in order to endure. Optimistic attitudes are favored and of emotional consideration. Al-Ghazali and William James rejected their pessimism after suffering psychological, or even psychosomatic illness. Criticisms of this sort however assume that pessimism leads inevitably to a mood of darkness and utter depression. Many philosophers would disagree, claiming that the term \"pessimism\" is being abused. The link between pessimism and nihilism is present, but the former does not necessarily lead to the latter, as philosophers such as Albert Camus believed. Happiness is not inextricably linked to optimism, nor is pessimism inextricably linked to unhappiness. One could easily imagine an unhappy optimist, and a happy pessimist. Accusations of pessimism may be used to silence legitimate criticism. The economist Nouriel Roubini was largely dismissed as a pessimist, for his dire but accurate predictions of a coming global financial crisis, in 2006. \"Personality Plus\" opines that pessimistic temperaments (e.g. melancholy and phlegmatic) can be useful inasmuch as pessimists' focus on the negative helps them spot problems that people with more optimistic temperaments (e.g. choleric and sanguine) miss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20687727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20687727", "title": "Prurigo gestationis", "text": "Prurigo gestationis\n\nPrurigo gestationis (also called \"prurigo gestationis of Besnier\", \"early-onset prurigo of pregnancy,\" \"Linear IgM dermatosis of pregnancy,\" \"papular dermatitis of pregnancy,\" \"prurigo of pregnancy\", and \"Spangler's papular dermatitis of pregnancy\") is an eruption consisting of pruritic, excoriated papules of the proximal limbs and upper trunk, most often occurring between the 20th and 34th week of gestation.\n\nThe exact etiology is unknown, but it is considered likely to be a flareup of atopic dermatitis during pregnancy.\n\nIt is sometimes considered to be a term encompassing Besnier's prurigo gestationis and other conditions.\n\nIt is sometimes considered a diagnosis of exclusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "26209901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26209901", "title": "Saskatoon freezing deaths", "text": "Saskatoon freezing deaths\n\nThe Saskatoon freezing deaths were a series of deaths of Canadian Aboriginal people in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan in the 2000s. Their deaths were caused by members of the Saskatoon Police Service, officers of which arrested Aboriginal men (usually for drunkenness and/or disorderly behavior), drove them out of the city in the dead of winter, and abandoned them there. The practice was known as taking Aboriginal people for starlight tours.\n\nVictims who died from hypothermia include Rodney Naistus, Lawrence Wegner, and Neil Stonechild. Naistus and Wegner died in 2000 and their bodies were discovered on the outskirts of Saskatoon. Inquests in 2001 and 2002 into their deaths determined their deaths were due to hypothermia, with no evidence of police involvement. The inquest jury's recommendations all related to police policies and police/Aboriginal relations. Neil Stonechild's body was found in 1990 in a field outside Saskatoon. A 2003 inquest was not able to determine the circumstances that led to his death.\n\nIn January 2000, Darrell Night was dropped off on the outskirts of Saskatoon but was able to call a taxi from the nearby Queen Elizabeth Power Station and suffered no ill effects. The two officers involved, constables Dan Hatchen and Ken Munson of the Saskatoon Police Service, claimed that they had simply given Night a ride home and dropped him off at his own request, but were convicted of unlawful confinement in September 2001 and sentenced to eight months in prison. The incident was the subject of the National Film Board of Canada documentary \"Two Worlds Colliding\" by Tasha Hubbard.\n\nThe Saskatoon police initially insisted these were isolated incidents. But in 2003, police chief Russell Sabo admitted that there was a possibility that the force had been dumping First Nations people outside the city for years, after revealing that in 1976 an officer was disciplined for taking an Aboriginal woman to the outskirts of the city and abandoning her there.\n\nIn December 2010, a young aboriginal man named Evan Maud in Winnipeg accused the police of taking him to the edge of the city at 4:00 a.m., threatening him with a Taser, and taking his jacket. The police stated that the accusation was false and laid charges against Maud of criminal mischief, after evidence surfaced such as video of Maud boarding a bus 15 minutes after being stopped by police, corroboration by police GPS, and testimony by witnesses that Maud was not wearing a jacket that night.\n\nOn April 21, 2018, Ken Thomas alleges he was picked up by two Saskatoon Police officers and dropped off outside city limits at night in the cold. This accusation is being investigated. \n\nThese incidents have been addressed in two films. Darrell Night's experiences were documented in Tasha Hubbard's 2004 National Film Board of Canada documentary \"Two Worlds Colliding\", winner of the Canada Award. A fictional incident was also portrayed in the half-hour drama \"Out In The Cold\", directed by Colleen Murphy and starring Gordon Tootoosis, Matthew Strongeagle, and Erroll Kinistino.\n\nIn 2005, the Canadian punk rock band Propagandhi released the album \"Potemkin City Limits\" containing the song \"The Bringer of Greater Things\" which was \"Dedicated to Rodney Naistus, Neil Stonechild and Lawrence Wegner, murdered by members of the Saskatoon Police Department.\" (Album liner notes) A lyrical excerpt \"…The city cops, a sub-zero night. A midnight ride out of town. The passenger was found frozen to the snow. Our enduring legacy.\" \n\nCanadian musician Kris Demeanor's song \"One Shoe\" was written about the Saskatoon freezing deaths, particularly Stonechild's.\nNicky Mehta's song \"Starlight\" was also written about the freezing deaths.\n\nIn 2017, Mi'kmaq artist Cathy Elliott completed a five-week workshop with students from Sheridan College for her new musical \"Starlight Tour\". This work was commissioned by the Grand Theatre in London, Ontario in collaboration with Sheridan Colleges \"Canadian Music Theatre Project\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3129727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3129727", "title": "Saved by the Light", "text": "Saved by the Light\n\nSaved by the Light (Villard Books, 1994, Harper Torch 1995 ) is a book by Dannion Brinkley purportedly describing his purported near-death experience (NDE). It is co-authored by Paul Perry. Brinkley claims to have been struck by lightning and to have clinically died for approximately twenty-eight minutes. He eventually told a tale of a dark tunnel, a crystal city, and a \"cathedral of knowledge\" where thirteen \"angels\" shared with him over a hundred revelations about the future, some of which he claims have come true. \n\nSome of the book's major assertions have been challenged, including claims of how long Brinkley was supposedly dead, and details of his recovery.\n\nSome of the book's assertions were subsequently challenged, including claims of where and how Brinkley recovered and how long he was supposedly dead, and claims made about his military service record. Interviews with his physician and the reporter who interviewed him indicate that Brinkley never entered the hospital or morgue and that Brinkley originally did not claim to have died, but only that he \"was out for a few minutes\", and that his wife saved his life. This is in sharp contrast to the story of a morgue-revival after being dead for 28 minutes as was claimed in the book.\n\nWithin two weeks of publication, another 5000 copies were printed. The book was on \"The New York Times\" bestseller charts for over 25 weeks.\n\nThe book was adapted for a 1995 FOX TV film of the same name starring Eric Roberts. Since originally airing, it has been in regular circulation on the Lifetime television network.\n"}
{"id": "56997348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56997348", "title": "Shijie (Daoism)", "text": "Shijie (Daoism)\n\nShijie, which has numerous translations such as liberation from the corpse and release by means of a corpse, is an esoteric Daoist technique for an adept to transform into a \"xian\" (\"transcendent; immortal\"), typically using some bureaucratic ruse to evade the netherworld administrative system of life and death registration. The many varieties of \"shijie\" range from deceitful cases, such as a person feigning death by substituting the corpse of their recently deceased grandfather as their own, to supernatural cases, such as (\"jianjie\" 劍解, \"sword liberation\") using a \"waidan\" alchemical sword to temporarily create a corpse-simulacrum, which enables one to escape and assume a new identity.\n\nThe Chinese term \"shījiě\" compounds the words \"shī\" (尸 or 屍, \"corpse; body\") and \"jiě\" (解, \"separate; divide; cut apart\"), and has been described as a \"rather strange name\" (Seidel 1987: 230), \"notoriously slippery term\" (Benn 2003: 139), with \"the potential for confusion\" (Campany 2002: 53), and sometimes \"misrepresented or interpreted in a way too vague to be intelligible\" (Pas 1998: 57).\n\nShī (尸) has three sets of English translation equivalents in Paul W. Kroll's dictionary of Classical Chinese and Medieval Chinese:\n\"Shi\"'s first equivalent of the ceremonial personator who was a stand-in for a deceased relative (\"corpse\") during Chinese funeral rituals and ancestral rites is a semantic extension of the basic meaning \"corpse\" (Carr 2007). Campany describes the \"shi\" \"impersonator of deceased ancestors, one who sat in their place during the solemn presentation of food, drink, and announcements and the performance of dances\" (2002: 53).\n\nBesides the usual meaning of \"corpse, dead body\", \"shi\" 尸 can sometimes mean \"body, mortal body\"—particularly in \"shijie\" contexts. Joseph Needham translates \"shijie\" as \"release from the mortal part\" (1974: 297), which is more appropriate than \"release from the corpse\" because the first step in achieving \"shijie\" transcendence is to abandon one's corporeal body (Pregadio 2004: 117). Anna Seidel points out that \"shi\" in the term \"shijie\" denotes \"all the corruptible aging factors of the physical body,\" rather than the corpse itself (1987: 230). Fabrizio Pregadio cites a classic Daoist text that clearly uses the word \"shi\" to denote \"not specifically a corpse, but in general the 'mortal body', either living or dead\". A passage in the c. 200 CE \"Xiang'er\" commentary to the \"Daodejing\" (see below) contrasts \"shisi\" (尸死) and \"shisheng\" (尸生), which cannot be read literally to mean \"a corpse dies\" and \"a corpse lives\". \"When the mortal body dies (\"shisi\"), that is wearing out; when the mortal body lives (\"shisheng\"), that is accomplishment\"; this context refers to options for a living person, and not to a postmortem renewal; \"its subject, in other words, is not the 'corpse' but the 'mortal body'\" (2004: 116-117). However, Campany contends that what is escaped through \"shijie\" is not the adept's \"shi\" dead body but the administrative system of death registration (2002: 53).\n\nOwing to the ambiguities of reading the original Chinese character 尸 for \"shi\" \"corpse; mortal body; personator of the dead; etc.\", the basic meaning of \"corpse\" is clarified with the character \"shi\" 屍 that adds \"si\" (死, \"die; death\") to \"shi\" 尸. Compare the word \"sǐshī\" (死屍, lit. \"dead corpse\") meaning \"corpse; dead body\".\n\nJie (解) has seven sets of English translation equivalents in Kroll's dictionary:\nKroll gives \"shijie\" as a usage example under both \"shi\" 2. and \"jie\" 4., glossed as \"'deliverance by means of a [simulated] corpse,' in which the adept's supposed corpse is buried but is actually substituted with a personal object (sword, staff, etc.) that temporarily takes on the appearance of the corpse, thus allowing one to escape from the bureaucracy of death; a lower-level means of transcendence.\" \n\nScholars propose divergent semantic interpretations of the \"jie\" in \"shijie\": \"to molt,\" \"to quarter,\" \"to expel an affliction\" (Robinet 1979: 58); \"to divide, separate, disperse, to detach, deliver\", \"to loosen, dissolve, explain\", and \"emancipation, liberation\" in Chinese Buddhism (Pas 1998: 58); and \"release, deliverance, escape\" (Campany 2002: 53). The ancient \"shijie\" is related with the medical term \"shītǐ jiěpu\" (屍體解剖, \"autopsy; postmortem examination\") that combines \"shītǐ\" (屍體, \"corpse; remains\") with \"jiěpōu\" (解剖, \"dissect\").\n\nThe forms of \"shijie\" are quite diverse, in its broadest meaning, the term sometimes simply denotes disappearance, \"to depart on a journey through foreign lands.\" It more commonly designates a type of disappearance that leaves a trace behind, such as a body without its bones, or a coffin that contains only a symbolic staff, sword, or sandal. Sometimes \"shijie\" can even refer to an adept who comes back to life after apparent death (Robinet 1979: 58-59).\n\nThe French sinologist Isabelle Robinet compares the common forms of \"shijie\".\nAnother variation is \"zhangjie\" (杖解, \"staff-liberated)\", when the adept's bamboo staff served as a temporary stand-in for his real body, which was transformed and vanished away to the realm of the immortals (Strickmann 1979: 130).\n\n\"Shijie\" is similar to the word \"bianhua\" (\"transformation; metamorphosis\") and its synonymous components \"bian\" (變, \"change; alter\") and \"hua\" (化, \"change; transform\"). For instance, the 499 \"Zhen'gao\" refers to a superior method of \"shijie\" called \"huadun\" (化遁, \"to transform and escape\"), and mentions \"tuohua dunbian\" (託化遁變, \"to simulate transformation and hide by metamorphosis\"); and the 983 \"Taiping Yulan\" describes \"shijie dunbian\" (尸解遁變, \"delivered from the body and transformed by escaping\") (Robinet 1979: 57). All types of \"bianhua\" require a material support, and \"shijie\" generally involves \"going away by making use of a material object.\" However, there is an essential difference between them. \"Bianhua\" is a magical trick or the manipulation of a power that the mystic can use while alive; \"Shijie\" is only practiced at the end of life and is a form of deliverance linked with the purification and refinement of the body (Robinet 1993: 168).\nThe \"huà\" (化, \"change; transform; convert\") in \"bianhua\" occurs in several Daoist alternative terms for \"shijie\". \"Jiěhuà\" (解化, with the \"jie\" \"release; etc.\" in \"shijie\") means \"liberate the mortal body and attain the Dao\". \"Xiāohuà\" (銷化, with \"melt away; disintegrate\") means \"release the physical body and transform into a \"xian\"\" (see the \"Shiji\" below). \"Yǔhuà\" (羽化, with \"feather; wing\") refers to an insect \"growing wings; eclosion\", which Daoists semantically extended to \"die and become a \"xian\" flying up to heaven\"; wings are a common feature in depictions of \"xian\", either riding a mythological flying creature or flying with their own wings—compare \"yǔrén\" (羽人, with \"person\") \"\"xian\" transcendent/immortal; Daoist priest\". \n\nAs detailed in \"Early textual usages\" below, the term \"xingjie\" (形解, \"release of the form\"), with \"xíng\" (形, \"outward form, appearance, shape; figure, configuration; structure, contour, outline\", Kroll 2007: 509), was a near synonym of \"shijie\" (\"release from the corpse\") that was recorded several centuries earlier. \n\n\"Tuōsǐ\" (託死, \"feign death; simulate death\", later written 托死) frequently occurs in \"shijie\" contexts. Compare the Chinese Buddhist term \"tuōshēng\" (托生, \"be reincarnated\") that was also used in early Daoist texts.\n\nThe term \"shijie\" has been \"variously and often poorly translated\" (Robinet 1979: 58). Translational difficulty stems from \"shi\" \"corpse\", and the term is usually rendered \"liberation or deliverance from the corpse\". However, Kirkland points out that in most accounts of \"shijie\" the subject did not actually die, and although all the appearances of death were involved, no corpse was really left behind (2008: 897).\n\nEnglish translations include:\nWithin this sample, \"shi\" is usually translated as \"corpse\", and \"jie\" most commonly as \"liberation\" or \"release\".\n\nThe word \"shijie\" (\"release from/of the corpse\") is first recorded in the c. 80 CE \"Lunheng\" below, but its near synonym \"xingjie\" (形解, \"release from the form\") occurs in earlier texts dating from around the 3rd to 1st centuries BCE. They do not use \"xingjie\" to denote a specific Daoist practice or method, but as general ways of transcending one's limited individuality (Pregadio 2004: 116). While \"shijie\" and \"xingjie\" are both instances of transcending the mortal body, they are not exactly the same, \"release from the corpse\" requires undergoing death but \"release from the form\" does not (Pregadio 2004: 117).\n\nFirst, \"xingjie\" \"release from the form\" refers to a spiritual epiphany in the c. 3rd-2nd century BCE \"Zhuangzi\" story about Tian Zifang (田子方, Sir Square Field) praising his teacher Dongguo Xunzi (東郭順子, Sir Accord of Easturb) to the Marquess Wen of Wei (r. 446-397 BCE) (Pregadio 2004: 115).\nAfter Sir Square went out, Marquis Wen spent the rest of the day in a state of dumb uncertainty. Then he summoned before him the officials who were standing on duty and said to them, \"How far we are from the gentleman of complete integrity. At first I considered the words of the sages and the wise men, the practice of humaneness and righteousness to be the ultimate. But now that I have heard about Sir Square's teacher, my physical form is unstrung and I have no desire to move [吾形解而不欲動]; my mouth is clamped shut and I have no desire to speak. What I have emulated is only an earthen image, and the state of Wei has truly been an encumbrance to me.\" (tr. Mair 1994: 199) \n\nSecond, the term \"xingjie\" (形解, \"release of the form\") describes an advanced self-cultivation exercise in the \"Shiwen\" (十問, Ten Questions), a previously-unknown medical book within the c. 200-168 BCE Mawangdui Silk Texts that archeologists discovered in a Western Han tomb (Pas 1998: 58). The fourth of the \"Shiwen\"'s ten dialogues (MSVI.A.4) is between the mythical Yellow Emperor and Rong Cheng (容成), a legendary ancient master of Daoist sexual practices and \"Daoyin\" breath circulation techniques, who says, \nLongevity is born of growth and accumulation. As for the fullness of that life: above it scans heaven and below it spreads over earth. The person who is capable of it invariably becomes a spirit. Thus he is capable of achieving release of the form. The person who perceives the great way skims the clouds as he moves. … like water flowing he can range far; like the dragon ascending he can rise high. (tr. Harper 1998: 390). \nThis is the only \"Shiwen\" passage that reflects the likely influence of \"xian\" or \"syncretistic-Daoist\" ideas about transcendence/immortality in the Mawangdui and Zhangjiashan bamboo medical texts, which primarily discuss maintaining health and attaining longevity. Harper notes that \"xingjie\" \"release from the form\" is thought to be synonymous with \"shijie\" \"release from the corpse\", which for the Daoist believer, marked the moment of \"xian\" transformation when a new, immortal physique was perfected and the mortal body sloughed off, leaving behind a husk-like corpse (or an object such as a sword or staff) as evidence that the adept had achieved \"shijie\" (citing Maspero 1981: 445–48). However, it is evident that \"xingjie\" in this \"Shiwen\" context, with references to \"becoming a spirit\" above and rising \"like the dragon\", does not represent the concepts of \"shijie\" in religious Daoism (Harper 1998: 114, 124).\n\nThird, \"xingjie\" names a supernatural technique in Sima Qian's c. 94 BCE \"Shiji\" (Records of the Historian) passage denouncing the practices performed by some \"fangshi\" (\"masters of the methods\") from the state of Yan who arrived at the First Emperor of Qin's court. These masters \"practiced methods for immortality [僊道] and for the release from the form through dissolution and transformation [形解銷化], relying on services offered to gods and demons.\" (tr. Pregadio 2004: 115). The \"Shiji\" commentary cites Fu Qian 服虔 (c. 125-c. 195 CE), who glosses \"xingjie\" (形解) as \"shijie\" (尸解).\n\nThe abtruse meaning of this phrase \"xingjie xiaohua\" (形解銷化) is illustrated in other translations:\nBased upon this term \"xiao\" (銷, \"melt [esp. metal]; dissolve\"), some scholars (e.g., Robinet 1979: 66) believe \"xiaohua\" alludes to \"waidan\" External Alchemy practices, but Pregadio disagrees and says it refers to \"thaumaturgic methods for replicating and multiplying one's form (ubiquity), or for dissolving it and hiding it (invisibility)\" (2004: 115).\n\nThe iconoclastic philosopher Wang Chong's c. 80 CE \"Lunheng\" (Balanced Inquiries) has earliest known occurrences of the term \"shijie\" \"separation from the body\" (tr. Alfred Forke).\n\nThe \"Daoxu\" (道虛, Daoist Untruths) chapter uses \"shijie\" six times in a passage refuting the legend that Li Shaojun, a Daoist \"fangshi\" the court of Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141-87), was several hundred years old when he died.\n\nWang Chong explains the \"shijie\" process with the \"chán\" (蟬, \"cicada\") analogy of a nymph molting its exoskeleton, converting into an adult, and leaving behind its exuviae; the adept transforms the body and joins with the spirit into physical immortality, leaving behind some external object in the coffin to prove that the corpse disappeared (Pas 1998: 60). \n\nForke also translates \"separation from the body\" for \"lixing\" (離形, \"separate from the form\") in another \"Lunheng\" chapter, \"Siwei\" (死偽, False Reports About the Dead). \"The souls of the dead are dissolved, and cannot hear any more what men say. This inability to hear what others say is called death. If after their separation from the body they became ghosts, and kept near to men, their connection with the body would already have been severed, and, though people addressed them, it would be impossible for them to again enter the body. and close the eyes, or open the mouth.\" (1907: 207).\n\nThe c. 190-200 CE \"Xiang'er\" commentary to the \"Daodejing\", which is central to the Daoist Way of the Celestial Masters religious tradition, uses \"shi\" to mean not specifically a \"corpse\" but generally a \"mortal body\", either living or dead (Pregadio 2004: 116).\n\nThe \"Xiang'er\" commentary uses the uncommon terms \"shisi\" (尸死, \"a corpse dies\") and \"shisheng\" (尸生, \"a corpse lives\") to explain the last line in \"Daodejing\" Chapter 15, \"Through this lack of fullness, they are able to disintegrate and be renewed\" [能辭復成]\" (tr. Pregadio 2004: 117). Bokenkamp interprets \"shisheng\" literally, \"When the corpse perishes, that is disintegration; when it lives, that is \"renewal\" [尸死為弊尸生為成]. Only by holding to the Dao without allowing one's will to overflow is one able to transform disintegration into renewal.\" (1997: 100). Pregadio translates \"shi\" as \"mortal body\", \"When the mortal body dies, that is wearing out; when the mortal body lives, that is accomplishment. Only by guarding the Dao without being full and overflowing is one able to transform wearing out into accomplishment.\" (2004: 117); noting that the passage refers to options given to a living person for their \"mortal body\", and not to a postmortem renewal for their \"corpse\".\n\nThe commentary to two \"Daodejing\" chapters describe an early Daoist understanding of transcendence. The adept \"tuōsǐ\" (託死, \"feigns/simulates death\") and goes to the \"Tàiyīn\" (太陰, Palace of Great Darkness, in the extreme north of the heavens), where their bodily form is refined, in analogy with alchemically refining base metals, resulting in \"fusheng\" (復生, \"rebirth\" or \"second birth\") in a body that preserves itself indefinitely (Pregadio 2018: 387). On the other hand, the damned are consigned to \"dìguān\" (地官, Earth Office), equated with the \"Diyu\" (地獄, \"earth prisons; purgatories\") of later texts. While the Celestial Masters recognized that death was inevitable, they sought longevity not through extended life in this world, but through the avoidance of death, described in terms of \"feigned death\" and continued existence in the next life (Bokenkamp 1997: 47).\n\n\"Daodejing\" Chapter 33 ends with the baffling phrase \"Those who die without perishing are longevous [死而不亡者壽]\", which the \"Xiang'er\" commentary explains.\nWhen a Daoist's practices are complete, the spirits of the Dao call that person to return. Departing the world through feigned death [避去託死], the person passes through Grand Darkness to be born again and not perish. That is longevity. Commoners have no good merits, and when they die, they belong to the Earth Office. That is to perish. (tr. Bokenkamp 1997: 135) \nCompare Seidel 's translation, \"When he retires from the world, he \"simulates\" death and passes over to the realm of the Extreme Yin (\"Taiyin\")\" (1987: 230).\n\nFor the Chapter 16 passage \"Their bodies obliterated, they do not perish [沒身不殆]\", the commentary says:\nGrand Darkness is the palace where those who have accumulated the Dao refine their forms [煉形]. When there is no place for them to stay in the world, the worthy withdraw and, feigning death [避去託死], pass through Grand Darkness to have their images reborn on the other side. This is to be \"obliterated without perishing.\" The profane are unable to accumulate good deeds, so when they die it is truly death. They are taken away in service of the Earth Offices. (tr. Bokenkamp 1997: 102) \nPregadio specifically translates \"lianxing\" (煉形) as \"refine their [bodily] forms\", and says, \"Since the release from, or rather of, the mortal body is a necessary step to continue one’s cultivation, the refining process takes place after one who is ready for it has \"simulated death\". Leaving one’s mortal body and refining one’s form results, at first, in entering again into a state in which neither form nor matter exist, but only a \"xiang\" (象, image, appearance). After the adept’s bodily form has been refined, the process culminates in his \"rebirth\".\" (2018: 387).\n\nThe \"Xiang'er\" commentary refers to those who lose faith in the Dao as \"xíngshī\" (行尸, \"mobile corpses\"). While received texts of Chapter 7 have \"Is it not just because he does not strive for any personal end that all his personal ends are fulfilled?\" (tr. Watson, 非以其無私耶故能成其私), the commentary has \"shi\" (尸, \"corpse\") instead of \"si\" (私, \"self-interest; selfish concerns\"), thus, \"Because he is without a corpse, he is able to perfect his [mortal] corpse.\" \nThe bodies of those who do not know the Dao of long life are but mobile corpses. It is not the Dao that they practice, but merely the way of the corpses. The reason the people of the Dao are able to achieve the longevity of Transcendents is that they do not practice the way of the corpses. They differ from the vulgar and thus are able to perfect their corpses, allowing them to enter the ranks of the Transcendent nobility. (tr. Bokenkamp 1997: 85) \n\nBeginning with the c. 2nd century CE \"Liexian Zhuan\" (Biographies of Exemplary Immortals), numerous hagiographies of Daoist masters directly or indirectly mentioned them transcending death through \"shijie\". While many religious traditions maintain that a believer can ascend to heaven and leave behind a body, Daoist accounts of \"shijie\" are notable for denying that a real corpse was left behind (Kirkland 2008: 896).\n\nSeveral \"Liexian zhuan\" hagiographies mention discovering \"wushi\" (無屍, \"corpseless\") coffins, implying that the adept had used \"shijie\", but only one directly refers to \"shijie\" (屍解). Kou Xian (寇先) was a legendary fisherman in the Zhou dynasty state of Song who lived on the banks of the Sui River (睢水) for over a century. Duke Jing (景公) of Song (r. 516-451) asked Kou to teach the \"Dao\" of longevity, but he refused and the duke had him executed. Several decades later Kou Xian was seen playing a \"qin\" lute by the Song city gate, revealing that he evaded death by means of \"shijie\". In later texts, this was interpreted as \"bingjie\" (兵解, \"escape by execution\") (Campany 2009: 125).\n\nThe \"Taiqing\" (太清, Great Clarity) school of Daoism, which preceded the better-known Shangqing School (Highest Clarity), devised new \"shijie\" methods using documents to game the spirit-administration system that regulates and enforces human lifespans. In contrast to the Jewish and Christian beliefs that God records the name of every person in the \"Book of Life\" and \"Book of Death\", the Chinese believed that the otherworldly death ledger system operated like the imperial system of census family registration, with scribes keeping track of people by their names and registered places of residence.\n\nTwo exemplary \"Taiqing\" scriptures, both mentioned in the c. 320 \"Baopuzi\" below, describe novel \"shijie\" procedures: placing a brief listing one's own name and registration data onto one's grandfather's corpse during the funeral, and creating a Daoist \"fu\" (符, supernatural talisman) asserting the cause of death was illness (Campany 2002: 57). Both \"shijie\" procedures require that the adept and substitute corpse have similar surnames and home districts.\n\nFirst, the \"Taiqing yinye shenqi jing\" (太清金液神氣經, Grand Purity Scripture of the Divine Pneumas of Potable Gold') quotes the mythical Yellow Thearch's instructions for preparing a legalistic brief and incantation in order to falsify the life and death ledger system.\n\"The Sovereign of Humanity (人皇) is familiar with all the registers of the living and the dead (死生之錄). He knows the names of the hundred ghosts and he records the surnames and bynames of the myriad spirits. If you seek a method of extending your years and increasing your longevity, you should prepare a brief (疏) to the Sovereign of Humanity, fully listing your own surname and given name, the year, month, and day of your birth anniversary, and the province, commandery, district, hamlet, village, sector, and earth-god shrine under whose jurisdiction you [are registered as] residing. Then, at the funeral of your grandfather, place this brief in the tomb and incant (祝) as follows: 'Whatever is born must die; allotted life span should accord with the registers. My name was not recorded in the Great Dark Storehouse (大幽藏), yet now I am already set to rest in Haoli. Roaming in the infernal realms, I wail over this in eternal vexation.' Having completed [this incantation], return home. In addition, you must change your surname and byname; these must not be the same as before. Thereupon you will not die in a thousand autumns or a myriad years; for the ledgers have already been fixed, and your name has forever been expunged.\" (tr. Campany 2002: 53-54) \nSecond, the \"Lingbao wufu xu\" (靈寶五符序, Explanations on the Five Numinous Treasure Talismans) promises earthbound transcendence to those who follow a complex procedure involving a poisonous alchemical elixir, a mystical Daoist talisman, death meditation (cf. Buddhist \"Maraṇasati\"), and a \"shijie\" simulated corpse. The text gives instructions for compounding and ingesting a mercury-based elixir called \"shijie yao\" (尸解藥, \"shijie\" drug), and writing out in red characters (as for an imperial edict) the Numinous Treasure Talisman of the Grand Mystery for Living in Hiding (靈寶太玄陰生之符), which includes stylized Chinese calligraphy for \"bingsi\" (病死, died of illness), \"shi\" (尸, corpse), and \"gui\" (鬼, ghost). \nAfter you have ingested the Medicine for the Release from the Mortal Body for the prescribed number of days, write the talisman [of the Highest Mystery of Living Unseen] in red on white silk, and place it on your belly. On a \"wu\" or \"ji\" day [in the sexagenary cycle], lie down, your head pointing towards the west, and visualize yourself being dead [思念自作死人]. After quite some time, take off your clothes, leave them where you have lain, and head straight to enter the mountains. When you are far away, change your name. Never return to your hometown. Right after you have left, people will find that where you had lain there is a corpse. But suddenly, after a while, no one will know where your corpse is to be found. (tr. Pregadio 2018: 390) \nThis Taiqing account shows that \"shijie\" \"release from the mortal body\" requires \"memento mori\"-like meditation practices and ritual aspects. The adept literally \"stages\" his or her death, and the \"audience\" of family members or Daoist companions participate in the \"performance\". They state that the corpse disappeared and was replaced by another object, such as a sword or staff. This \"shijie\" object performs the same function as played by the \"tishen\" (替身, \"replacement bodies\") in early funerary rites. In a ritual sense, the object replaces the deceased, whether the adept's death is real or only \"simulated\" (Pregadio 2018: 390-391). The same scripture also describes how to make male and female versions of a talisman for \"masters of the Dao who wish to perform \"shijie\"\", which when written with a \"spirit-brush\" (神筆) on any wood or metal object will immediately transform it into a substitute cadaver that will subsequently \"die and depart\" (Campany 2002: 54).\n\nComparing the two documentary \"shijie\" procedures, Campany finds common elements. Both involve a ritual performance (an incantation protesting one's untimely death, meditating on oneself as a corpse). Each uses an administrative document to magically activate an object (one's grandfather's corpse, one's discarded clothing) that creates an illusory substitute corpse. Both mandate a complete name change.\n\nThe usual interpretation for a practitioner who performs \"shijie\" to change their name is as a simple trick to elude the spirits enforcing the \"registers of life and death\" for each person's lifespan; the adept changes their name in the belief that the spirit-bureaucrats would be unable to locate them and cause their death. On a deeper level, Pregadio notes the homophonous correspondence between \"gǎimíng\" (改名, changing name) and \"gǎimìng\" (改命, changing destiny), and says the change of name does not merely intend to cheat the spirits, but is symbolically equivalent to the meditational and ritual act of \"taking off one's clothes\", that is, discarding one’s old persona (Pregadio 2018: 391).\n\nThe Daoist scholar Ge Hong's c. 320 \"Baopuzi\" (Master who Embraces Simplicity) reflects contemporary understanding of \"shijie\" during the Jin dynasty (265–420). Two \"Inner Chapters\" mention \"shijie\", and Ge's appended \"Daoist Library\" records the \"Shijie jing\" (尸解經, Classic of \"Shijie\"), which is no longer extant (Ware 1966: 382).\n\nOne passage about the 2nd century BCE \"fangshi\" Li Shaojun (李少君, mentioned in the \"Lunheng\" above) lists \"shijie\" as the lowest category of \"xian\" transcendents after \"tian\" (heavenly) and di\" (earthly).\nThe manuals of the immortals say that masters of the highest category are able to raise themselves high up into the aery void; these are called 'celestial immortals' [\"tianxian\" 天仙]. Those of the second category resort to the famous mountains (and forests) and are called 'terrestrial immortals' [\"dixian\" 地仙]. As for those of the third category they simply slough off the body after death, and they are called 'corpse-free immortals' [\"shijiexian\" 尸解仙]. (2, tr. Needham and Lu 1974: 106, adapted from Ware 1966: 47, \"Corpse-freed Genii\") \nBased on Han dynasty sources, Ge Hong concludes that Li Shaojun must have been a \"shijiexian\" because long after his death from illness, Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141-87) had the coffin opened, and it was found to contain \"only a gown and hat\". Ge gives three other Eastern Han (25-220 CE) adepts who were \"shijie\" transcendents. Xie Yuanyi (謝元一) took Fei Changfang (費長房) away and left \"a bamboo effigy to be buried in his place\"; Li Yiqi (李意期) and two disciples \"died\" in Pixian, but when their families opened their coffins they found in each \"a bamboo staff with red writing on it\" (tr. Ware 1966: 47-48). \n\nIn another \"Baopuzi\" passage, Ge Hong denounced as a charlatan the healer Li Kuan (李寬), who treated illnesses with holy water and amulets and became extremely popular in south China. Ge's personal acquaintances who had witnessed Li's healing rituals, using \"very shallow\" recipes, unanimously said he was frail, senile, and no different from ordinary old people. After Li Kuan died from a virulent plague, his followers repeatedly claimed that he had metamorphosed into a \"xian\" transcendent through \"release as a corpse and that his was not a true death\". Ge concluded that Li's death proved he was \"not the right type of individual\" to become a \"shijiexian\" (tr. Ware 1966: 159-160).\n\nIn the \"Baopuzi\", Ge Hong considered processes like \"shijie\" to be perfectly natural. \nWhen gold and jade are inserted into the nine orifices, corpses do not decay. When salt and brine are absorbed into flesh and marrow, dried meats do not spoil. So when men ingest substances which are able to benefit their bodies and lengthen their days, why should it be strange that (some of these) should confer life perpetual? (tr. Needham and Lu 1974: 284, adapted from Ware 1966: 62) \nDuring Zhou dynasty funerals, amulets of jade, beads or cicadas, were placed in the mouth of the dead (Needham et al. 1976: 3).\n\nBesides the \"Baopuzi\", Ge Hong also compiled the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" (Biographies of Divine Transcendents) that provides more information about \"shijie\" than the earlier \"Liexian Zhuan\" above. Five hagiographies of \"xian\" directly mention \"shijie\" and many others allude to it with finding empty coffins, such as Ling Shouguang (靈壽光).\nLing Shouguang was a native of Fufeng. At the age of over seventy obtained a method for [making] \"efflorescence of vermilion\" pills. These he synthesized and ingested, with the result that his appearance was that of a person in his twenties. By the first year of the [Latter] Han \"jian'an\" period [196 CE] he was already two hundred twenty years old. Later, without having shown any signs of illness, he \"died\" at the home of Hu Gang (胡岡) in Jiangling. Over a hundred days after his funeral and burial, someone saw Ling in Xiaohuang. This person sent a letter to Hu Gang, who, upon receiving the letter, dug up the coffin and looked inside. It was empty except for an old shoe. (tr. Campany 2002: 232) \n\nWang Yuan's (王遠) hagiography has a rare description of how the \"shijie\" process feels. Wang explains to his pupil Cai Jing (蔡經):\n\"By birth, you are destined to transcend the world; you will be chosen as a replacement for an office. But your knowledge of the Way is scant; your pneumas are few and you have much flesh. You cannot ascend [directly] in this condition, but must avail yourself of shijie. It's like passing out through a dog's hole [too narrow to permit a person easy passage], that's all.\" Then Wang declared to Cai the essential teachings, and left him. Soon Cai felt his entire body grow hot as if on fire. He craved cold water to bathe himself in; his entire family brought water and poured it over him, and it was like making steam by pouring water over hot rocks. This went on for three days. Then, once his bones had completely dissolved, he stood up, went into his room, and covered himself with a blanket. Suddenly he had vanished. When his family looked inside the blanket, only his outer skin was left, intact from head to foot, like a cicada shell. (tr. Campany 2002: 260) \nCai Jing's \"shijie\" is not merely escape by means of a simulated corpse that leaves behind the adept's possession (shoe, staff, etc.) but a transformative refinement that dissolves their bones (believed to be the seat of lifespan allotment) and leaves behind only their skin. Thus, Campany suggests translating Cai Jing's case as \"'release from one's corpse', where the 'corpse' is all the dross of one's own former, impure body, refined away to leave one with a newly incorruptible body\" (2002: 266).\n\nThe hagiography of Yin Changsheng (陰長生), who supposedly lived over three hundred years, estimates the frequency of adepts achieving \"shijie\". \"In upper antiquity, there were many transcendents, so many that they cannot all be accounted for. But since the rise of the Han, only forty-five persons have attained transcendence—forty-six counting myself. Twenty of them did so via 'escape by means of a simulated corpse,' the rest all ascended to Heaven in broad daylight.\" (tr. Campany 2002: 275).\n\nCampany summarizes five common features of \"shijie\" stories in the \"Shenxian zhuan\" and other early hagiographies.\nHowever, not every \"shijie\" narrative in the \"Shenxian zhuan\" conforms to these patterns. When Zuo Ci and Guo Pu were condemned to execution, they escaped through \"bingjie\" (兵解, \"martial liberation\") and simultaneously eluded the agents of both the imperial and the spirit world bureaucracies (2002: 59).\n\n\"Shijie\" is frequently mentioned in the 499 \"Zhen'gao\" (Declarations of the Perfected), which is Tao Hongjing's collection of materials from the \"Shangqing revelations\" that were allegedly given to the mystic Yang Xi (330-c. 386) by a group of Daoist Perfected Ones from 364 to 370. \n\nSeveral revelations concern \"shijie\" methods and the destinies of Yang Xi and his aristocratic collaborators, Xu Mi (許謐, 303-376) and his son Xu Hui (許翽, 341-c. 370). Perfected Consort An (安妃) suggests \"jianjie\" (劍解, escape by means of a sword; here written \"jiejian\" 解劍) to her spirit-fiancé Yang Xi, \"My lord, if you can't abide the smoke from windblown flames and wish to embrace Perfected form in a secluded wood, then could you just seek the Way of escape by means of the sword and perform the technique of announcing [your own] end? If you finish yourself off, doing it openly or in secret and leaving your trace [corpse-simulacrum] concealed or in plain view are matters to be separately arranged at the last moment. It's all up to you, discerning lord!\" (tr. Smith 2013: 101). \n\nA \"Zhen'gao\" revelation from Mao Gu (茅固), one of the Three Lords Mao, discloses to Xu Mi that his missing elder brother Xu Mai (許邁, 300-348), had paired with a Perfected partner, retreated into the mountains, and escaped from the world by means of a \"simulated corpse\" (Smith 2013: 18). Another context says Xu Mai studied under his teacher Wang Shilong (王世龍), and \"received the Way of loosening constraints [\"jieshu zhi dao\" 解束之衜], practiced the method of walking backward, consumed jade fluid, and had audience at Brain-Essence [Palace]\". This \"Way of loosening constraints\" may refer to the \"shijie\" variety called \"jiedai\" (解帯, escape leaving one's waistband behind) (Smith 2013: 276). Others revelations tell Xu Hui that he will perform a \"nocturnal escape\", which apparently means staging death under cover of night, without using a simulacrum like a sword or staff, and tell Xu Mi that he is too preoccupied with worldly affairs to escape immediately (Smith 2013: 299).\n\n\"Zhen'gao\" passages provide a general outline of a complicated \"shijie\" process, which goes through several stages, usually over a span of many years. First, the practitioner must become \"suitably detached\" from worldly affairs. Second, one must be in the correct frame of mind that views life and death as opposite banks of the same river—\"both are equal and essential\". Third, after one escapes, the \"hun\" cloud-souls go to Grand Yin, the \"po\" earth-souls enter the earth, and the Four Numina and Five Male Ones preserve the body's seminal essence and five viscera. Fourth, once the cloud-souls arrive at Grand Yin (a place far in the north), they undergo further refinement, in a process like that which takes place in the alchemist's sealed crucible. Finally, all those who are fit for the process inevitably wake up as Perfected. \"Only then can the practitioner truly understand the wondrousness of the spirit immortals' \"dying but not perishing\" and the profundity of the principles governing life and death\". (Smith 2013: 300).\n\nZhao Cui (d. 622 BCE) was a legendary Daoist transcendent who assisted Duke Wen of Jin (r. 636-628), and the \"Zhen'gao\" records that five to six years after he died, \"a man travelling through the mountains one evening spotted this corpse inside a rock chamber. The flesh had rotted, but the bones remained. He also saw that the five viscera in the abdomen were still alive as before. The [bodily] fluids and blood were wrapped in bundles therein; a purple placenta was woven on the outside.\" (tr. Smith 2013: 302-303)\n\nMany \"Zhen'gao\" passages mention alchemical drugs as a means to achieving \"shijie\" \"release from the corpse\". Chinese alchemists were aware that the metallic compounds produced in their furnaces were highly poisonous, but they believed that the practitioner would suffer only an apparent death while in fact passing into the heavens without dying (Bokenkamp 1997: 291; Smith 2013: 284). One context lists historical figures who achieved \"shijie\" by consuming the powerful alchemical Elixir of Langgan Efflorescence, which was compounded from toxic heavy metals.\nThose who feigned construction of a tomb after swallowing Efflorescence of Langgan are Yan Menzi [衍門子], Gao Qiuzi [髙丘子], and Master Hongyai [洪涯先生]. The residents of the three counties (in which their graves are found) all call them vacant tumuli of the dead of highest antiquity. They are unaware, though, that on one occasion Gao Qiuzi entered Mount Liujing through liberation by means of a corpse. He afterwards consumed a powder of Liquefied Gold [金液], then ingested Efflorescence of Langgan at Zhongshan and feigned the appearance of still another death, whereupon he at last entered Xuanzhou [玄州, \"dark region\" netherworld]. (tr. Strickmann 1979: 131, cf. Needham and Lu 1974: 296) \nThese practitioners notably do not ascend into the Shangqing heavens but live among the terrestrial paradises. \n\nThe Shangqing School founder, Wei Huacun, who supposedly performed \"shijie\" herself (Bokenkamp 1997: 251), describes some others who performed it.\nFinding the Way and leaving the world is done either visibly or in secret. Using the body to leave a trace behind is the secret [approach to] the Way. Some have taken two swigs of rose-gem essence and knocked on their coffins, or consumed a speck of it once and had their corpses rot. Sire Deerskin swallowed jade blossoms and the maggots streamed out his door; Youngest Son Qiu gulped the gold fluid and the stench was smelled a hundred \"Ii\" away. The Yellow Thearch, who fired the nine cauldrons [elixir] on Mount Jing, still has a tomb at Qiao Peak; Sima Jizhu, who consumed mica powder to make a covert ascent, still [left his] head and feet in different places. Mo Di gulped rainbow elixir to throw himself into a river; Young Ning consumed stone brains and rushed into a fire. Wu Guang cut leeks to enter Qingling Pool; Bocheng Zigao absorbed pneumas, and his guts rotted three times. People like these are beyond count. Isn't the Way subtle? In finding it, the traces of one's inclinations and aversions are never constant.\" (tr. Smith 2013: 295-298) \nSima Jizhu (司馬季主) was a diviner for Han Emperor Wen (r. 180-157 BCE); \"head and feet in different places\" (\"tóuzúyìchù\" 頭足異凥) is a fixed expression for beheaded persons. The \"Zhen'gao\" translator Thomas E. Smith describes Wei Huacun as employing \"graveyard humor\", such as the name for mica powder, \"yunsan\" (云散, lit. \"disperse like clouds\") with \"san\" (散 also meaning \"scatter; vanish; (TCM) powdered medicine\"), which is a pun for \"vanishing powder\" (2013: 300).\n\nThe \"Shangqing\" classic \"Jianjing\" (劍巠, Sword Scripture) compares several \"shijie\" alchemical preparations and says the \"lingwan\" (靈丸, Numinous Bolus) elixir is the only one that permits the adept to return home without changing his or her name. The \"Zhen'gao\" Appendix to the \"Jianjing\" describes the range of different techniques.\nThose who manage to escape by means of the corpse through the use of other medicines and are not transformed by means of the Numinous Bolus may not, in any case, return to their hometowns, for the Three Offices would detain them. There are those who die and revive. There are those who get beheaded, only to emerge [again] from one side. There are those whose corpses disappear before encoffinment. There are those whose human forms remain but whose bones are not recovered, those whose clothes remain but whose forms disappear, and those whose hair falls out but whose forms are lost. Departing in broad daylight is called a superior escape by corpse, and departing at midnight is called an inferior escape by corpse. (Smith 2013: 304-305) \nThis passage distinguishes two grades of \"shijie\" by the time of day when the adept leaves the world, superior \"bairi\" (白日, daytime; broad daylight) and inferior \"yeban\" (夜半, midnight). The term \"bairi\" is usually translated as \"in broad daylight\" but more precisely means \"midday; noon\", in contrast to \"shijie\" proper at midnight. Hagiographies of Daoist immortals provide many examples of ascension to Heaven occurring exactly at midday, often expressed with the stock phrase \"bairi shengtian\" (白日昇天, \"ascending to Heaven in broad daylight\"). These two ways of deliverance are distinguished by opposite but corresponding \"yinyang\" features: ascent and descent, midday and midnight, light and darkness, sun and moon. On one hand, ascent to Heaven is the way of non-return to the world, a spiritual journey ascending from one empyrean to the next. On the other, descent to Great Darkness is the way of return, one obtains a \"second birth\" and eventually comes back to the world (Pregadio 2004: 122).\n\nThe reason for this inferior status of an adept who performs \"shijie\" is that despite their having attained an advanced spiritual state, it is insufficient for them to \"ascend to heaven in broad daylight\", and they need to undergo a transformational \"refining the bodily form\". As long as the adept continues dwelling in their physical body, they are able to focus upon creating their perfected body (Pregadio 2018: 391).\nLogically, a question about \"shijie\" occurs: \"If \"release from the corpse\" serves to leave one’s ordinary body and to generate a \"perfected body\", why would an adept ever return to their mortal body from which they wanted to be liberated?\" The famed legend of Li Tieguai (\"Iron-Crutch Li\"), one of the Eight Immortals in the Daoist pantheon, illustrates that the function of this \"recovered\" body is to provide a means to cultivate the \"perfected\" body. Once when Li Tieguai was in deep meditation, his spirit left his body and was roaming in the heavens, but his disciples mistakenly thought that he had died and cremated what they believed was his corpse. When his spirit returned, Li realized that since his original body was no longer available, he had to enter the only available corpse, that of a lame beggar who had recently starved to death. Thus, what is to be \"perfected\" through \"shijie\" is not the physical form, Iron-Crutch only needed a body in order to continue his Daoist practices. \"Even in this uncommon case of a forced \"release from the mortal body\", the focus of the practice is the perfected body.\" (Pregadio 2018: 392).\n\nThe \"Zhen'gao\"'s Examination of the Corpse section is widely quoted (Strickmann 1979: 182). It gives wide-ranging criteria for verifying \"shijie\" \"escape by an apparent corpse\", reflecting the wide variety of escape methods and contingent factors (e.g., choosing to escape openly or secretly) that would tend to leave different signs on the corpse.\nWhen a person dies, you must look at the body. If it is like that of a living person, it is in all instances a case of escape by corpse. If you see that the feet are not blue and the skin is not wrinkled, it is also a case of escape by corpse. If the light of the eyes is undimmed and no different from that of a living person, it is also a case of escape by corpse. If all the head hair has fallen out but the body and bones are missing, it is in all instances a case of escape by corpse. If an [apparent] escape by corpse occurs in broad daylight, then even though [the person] is an immortal it is not an instance of escape by corpse. (tr. Smith 2013: 300-301) \nMost of these criteria would allow a deceased master's disciples to announce that he or she had successfully achieved \"shijie\" \"escape by corpse\", except the one \"broad daylight\" criterion for not attaining \"shijie\" that actually indicates the highest form of transcendence, directly rising to heaven. Declaring successful \"shijie\" is easy, \"none of the criteria are negative indicators of a failed quest\". (Smith 2013: 301).\n\nEven though the word \"shijie\" (尸解) was in use during the 1st century CE, before Buddhism had any influence in China, the meaning was probably later influenced by \"jiětuō\" (解脫)—the Chinese Buddhist translation of \"moksha\" (liberation, emancipation, release) (Pas 1998: 58). Cross-borrowings between Buddhism and Daoism were so pervasive that many narratives about Buddhist monks include supposedly distinctive Daoist practices such as \"shijie\" (liberation from the corpse) and \"bigu\" (grain avoidance) (Campany 1996: 329, 2009: 59). For instance, the 648 \"Book of Jin\" records that the Buddhist monk Shan Daokai (單衜開), a contemporary of the Central Asian missionary Fotudeng (c. 232-348 CE), \"achieved a cicada-like metamorphosis by ingesting pills\" (Needham et al. 1976: 112).\n\nThe c. 700 Buddhist-influenced text \"Daojiaoyishu\" (衜敎義樞, Pivotal Meaning of Daoist Teachings) describes \"shijie\" as the second of three types of \"bianhua\" transformations. \nThe first is adepts who \"ascend to Heaven in broad daylight\" (\"bairi shengtian\" 白日昇天), merge with the divine, and roam together with the gods, which means that \"one's entire person ascends to Heaven\".\nThe second [type of transformation] is \"release from the corpse\" (\"shijie\"). Some replace their corpse with a sword or a bamboo staff; all of a sudden, they rise up and go, and abruptly they are no longer there. Some leave behind their skin. Some receive a funeral and are buried, but then if their coffin is opened there is only a staff or a shoe. Some roam to the five sacred peaks, while some can rise to Heaven. In the Southern Palace (Nangong) there is the Court of Flowing Fire (\"liuhuo zhi ting\"); in the Golden Gate (Jinmen) there is the Water of Smelting Refinement (\"yelian zhi shui\"). All those who inwardly ascend to Heaven while they are alive must first go to the Court of Fire (\"huoting\") in order to refine their form and spirit, while those who rise to heaven after their death must first go the Courtly Pond (\"tingchi\") in order to refine their celestial soul(s) (\"hun\") and body frame. All this accords with the results of their practice (\"gongye\"). \nThe third is \"transfer by extinction\" (\"miedu\" 烕度, the Chinese Buddhist name for \"Nirvana\"), \"The mortal form (\"shixing\") does not become ashes, as if the corpse is guarded by the Great One (Taiyi) itself. Sometimes, after years, the corpse reverts to be a human being.\" (tr. Pregadio 2004: 118). The \"shijie\" implements such as a sword or shoe perform a function similar to the \"tishen\" (替身, \"replacement bodies\") used in some Daoist rites to represent the adept's negative and \"unrefined\" aspects, worldly bonds which made it impossible for one to achieve a higher form of liberation in life (Pregadio 2004: 125-126).\n\nThe term \"shijie\" \"corpse deliverance\" has \"baffled scholars because the ideas and practices behind it have remained quite murky\", perhaps owing to intentional secrecy among Daoist initiates (Campany 2002: 52). Academics cannot even decide how to translate the term. \"Should we interpret it as deliverance of a person \"from\" the mortal coil of his corpse, as deliverance of a person's body from death and putrefaction, or as deliverance \"by means of\" a corpse? While arguments in favor of each of these interpretations have been offered, scholars essentially agree that \"corpse deliverance\" implies a freedom gained after either what really \"was\" or what \"appeared to be\" physical death.\" (Cedzich 2001: 2).\nThe oldest explanation of \"shijie\" is the cicada metamorphosis metaphor, which later became a standard Chinese literary trope, both of which first appeared in Wang Chong's 1st-century \"Lunheng\". There are multiple parallels between a \"shijie\" practitioner leaving behind their (sometimes apparent) corpse and transforming into a \"xian\" transcendent and a cicada nymph moulting its exoskeleton, emerging as an adult, and leaving behind an exuvia. \n\nThe \"Shenxian zhuan\" above uses the term \"chántuì\" (蟬蛻), which means both \"cicada slough\" (used in Traditional Chinese medicine) and \"free/extricate oneself\", to describe Cai Jing after his body had melted away for three days, \"only his outer skin was left, intact from head to foot, like a cicada shell\". Zhang Junfang's c. 1029 \"Yunji Qiqian\" (Seven Bamboo Tablets of the Cloudy Satchel) Daoist encyclopedia describes \"jianjie\" transcendence as \"chánhuà\" (蟬化, \"cicada transformation\"), \"When men use a precious sword for the deliverance of the body, this is the highest example of metamorphic transformations\" (tr. Needham and Wang 1956: 141).\n\nJoseph Needham and Lu Gwei-djen say that Daoist alchemists believed immortality elixirs could generate \"a new physical but immortal self, embodying the whole personality, which could leave the adept's corpse like a butterfly emerging from a chrysalis, and go off to dwell among the other immortals\". Two possible results of \"shijie\" \"liberation from the corpse\" were either an empty coffin if the physical body had fully etherealized, or the changeless perpetuation of an adept's light body, never showing any signs of post-mortem decomposition (1974: 284).\n\nNeedham and Lu also interpret that the remarkably well-preserved body of Xin Zhui or Lady Dai (d. 163 BCE), discovered in 1972 among Mawangdui tombs, showed that early Chinese mortuary specialists, whom they presume were Daoists, had sufficiently advanced chemical knowledge and skill to achieve an almost perpetual conservation, which suggests \"for the first time all that [\"shijie\"] may have implied\". Furthermore, they say this adds another dimension to the Daoist doctrine of physical immortality and suggests that traditional stories about incorruptible corpses were possibly based on fact (1974: 303-304). Lady Dai's body demonstrates that the Daoist conception of \"shijiexian\" \"corpse-free immortals, whose bodies would remain century after century like those of persons still living, was not entirely imaginary (Needham et al. 1976: 21).\n\nMichel Strickman convincingly proposed that the adept's \"corpse\" in \"shijie\" techniques was not always a temporary stand-in but in certain cases could be the cadaver of someone who achieved \"xian\" transcendence by means of ritual suicide through Chinese alchemical elixir poisoning. For a Daoist religious believer, suicide could sometimes be an acceptable way to escape during periods of social or political trouble. For example, Ge Xuan (164-244) resorted to \"shijie\" to flee from the oppression of Emperor Wu of Jin (1979: 132-133).\n\nIn response, Isabelle Robinet contended that \"shijie\" \"liberation from the body\" was not a ritual suicide—an \"interpretation that has grown up without any supporting evidence\"—but instead a procedure of salvation after death. When a practitioner dies before completing spiritual purification, a kind of \"partial death\" takes place, with an afterlife in an intermediate realm while it awaits a more complete purification and final deliverance (1997: 138).\n\nUrsula-Angelika Cedzich concurs with Strickman's ritual suicide hypothesis. In one of the best-documented cases, Tao Hongjing's disciple Zhou Ziliang (周子良, 497-516) received visions from Perfected Ones who guaranteed him transcendence into Shangqing heavens, and gave instructions how to compound a deadly potion of mushrooms and cinnabar, with which he committed suicide (2001: 33-34, 37-39).\n\nAnother interpretation of \"shijie\" centers around similarities with resurrection as the concept of coming back to life after death. \n\nDonald Harper studied documents found in Late Warring States tombs, including an official report that recounts a spectacular resurrection story. A man named Dan (丹, cinnabar), who was employed by a general in the Wei army, committed suicide in 300 BCE because he had murdered a man. After Dan's burial, however, the general filed an official bureaucratic complaint with the netherworld administration claiming that he had not yet been \"fated\" to die, and they subsequently released Dan from the grave and returned him to the world of the living in 297 BCE (1994: 13-14). However, it took several years after his resurrection before Dan could hear or eat food again, and \"his four limbs were useless\" (1994: 22-23). Harper suggests that the concept of \"shijie\" began around the 1st century CE from a synthesis of ancient beliefs about resurrecting the dead and the Daoist notion of \"xian\" transcendence/immortality, \"shijie was a special form of resurrection with elements that distinguished it from an already existing belief in resurrection in popular religion\" (1994: 25).\n\nJulian Pas says that when Daoism adopted the \"shijie\" procedure, properly translated here not as \"liberation from the body\" but as \"liberation through the body\", it changed the focus from relying on official documents to revive a dead person to relying on self-cultivation to metamorphize into a \"xian\" transcendent (1998: 59). In addition, \"shijie\" has some parallels with Christian resurrection of the dead in which the deceased body is reunited with the soul. Describing the resurrection of Jesus, the Bible says his tomb was found empty, except for some grave clothes—which is reminiscent of Daoist \"shijie\" cases when the master's coffin is found empty except for some article of clothing left behind (1998: 60).\n\nIn some cases, a Daoist adept carrying out \"shijie\" \"escape by means of a corpse\" was not attempting miraculous transcendence but was simply absconding from difficult demands, such as when Emperor Wu of Jin indefinitely detained Ge Xuan, he told his disciple, \"I do not have the leisure to prepare the great drug [of immortality]. Now I will perform \"shijie\".\" (tr. Campany 2002: 59).\n\nThe \"Book of the Later Han\" gives several examples. Xu Yang (許楊) was an expert in Chinese numerology, but when the usurper Wang Mang conscripted him into the new government, Xu changed his name and became a famed healer in a distant province, and returned home only after the Han army had executed Wang Mang in 23 CE. For similar reasons, Feng Liang (馮良) supposedly killed his horse, smashed his carriage, tore his clothes to pieces, and disappeared. Everyone believed that wild animals had killed him, and his family buried the remains found at the site—but Feng returned more than ten years later (Cedzich 2011: 40).\n\nNarratives involving this expedient type of \"shijie\" have common themes of name change and identity creation (Cedzich 2011: 27). This represents \"a momentous abstention from the family lineage system that formed the spine of Chinese society\" (Campany 2002: 55-56). The elaborate \"shijie\" process given above in the \"Lingbao wufu xu\" says, \"After the adept has reached a safe place, they begin a new life under a pseudonym, but can never return home (where they might be recognized).\" (tr. Campany 2002: 54). Finally, even the Shangqing patriarch Tao Hongjing himself, after years of unsuccessful alchemical experiments with immortality elixirs for Emperor Wu of Liang (r. 502-549), desperately attempted to flee his imperial patron in 508 by changing his name to Wang Zheng (王整) and pretending to be an ordinary soldier (Cedzich 2011: 40).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2504255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2504255", "title": "Social dominance orientation", "text": "Social dominance orientation\n\nSocial dominance orientation (SDO) is a personality trait which predicts social and political attitudes, and is a widely used social psychological scale. SDO is conceptualized as a measure of individual differences in levels of group-based discrimination; that is, it is a measure of an individual's preference for hierarchy within any social system and the domination over lower-status groups. It is a predisposition toward anti-egalitarianism within and between groups. The concept of SDO as a measurable individual difference is a product of social dominance theory.\n\nIndividuals who score high in SDO desire to maintain and, in many cases, increase the differences between social statuses of different groups, as well as individual group members. Typically, they are dominant, driven, tough, and seekers of power. People high in SDO also prefer hierarchical group orientations. Often, people who score high in SDO adhere strongly to belief in a \"dog-eat-dog\" world. It has also been found that men are generally higher than women in SDO measures. Studies have found that SDO has a strong positive relationship with authoritarian and racist beliefs.\n\nSDO was first proposed by Jim Sidanius and Felicia Pratto as part of their social dominance theory (SDT). SDO is the key measurable component of SDT that is specific to it.\n\nSDT begins with the empirical observation that surplus-producing social systems have a threefold group-based hierarchy structure: age-based, gender-based and \"arbitrary set-based\", which can include race, class, sexual orientation, caste, ethnicity, religious affiliation, etc. Age-based hierarchies invariably give more power to adults and middle-age people than children and younger adults, and gender-based hierarchies invariably grant more power to one gender over others, but arbitrary-set hierarchies—though quite resilient—are truly arbitrary.\n\nSDT is based on three primary assumptions:\n\nSDO is the individual attitudinal aspect of SDT. It is influenced by group status, socialization, and temperament. In turn, it influences support for HE and HA \"legitimating myths\", defined as \"values, attitudes, beliefs, causal attributions and ideologies\" that in turn justify social institutions and practices that either enhance or attenuate group hierarchy.\n\nWhile the correlation of gender with SDO scores has been empirically measured and confirmed, the impact of temperament and socialization is less clear. Duckitt has suggested a model of attitude development for SDO, suggesting that unaffectionate socialisation in childhood causes a tough-minded attitude. According to Duckitt's model, people high in tough-minded personality are predisposed to view the world as a competitive place in which resource competition is zero-sum. A desire to compete, which fits with social dominance orientation, influences in-group and outside-group attitudes. People high in SDO also believe that hierarchies are present in all aspects of society and are more likely to agree with statements such as \"It's probably a good thing that certain groups are at the top and other groups are at the bottom\". In turn, SDO predicts stereotyping, discrimination and prejudice.\n\nSDO has been measured by a series of scales that have been refined over time, all of which contain a balance of pro- and contra-trait statements or phrases. A 7-point Likert scale is used for each item; participants rate their agreement or disagreement with the statements from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree). Most of the research was conducted with the SDO-5 (a 14-point scale) and SDO-6. The SDO-7 scale is the most recent scale measuring social dominance orientation, which embeds two sub-dimensions: dominance (SDO-D) and anti-egalitarianism (SDO-E).\n\n\n\n\nKeying is reversed on questions 9 through 16, to control for acquiescence bias.\n\nRubin and Hewstone (2004) argue that social dominance research has changed its focus dramatically over the years, and these changes have been reflected in different versions of the social dominance orientation construct. Social dominance orientation was originally defined as \"the degree to which individuals desire social dominance and superiority for themselves and their primordial groups over other groups\" (p. 209). It then quickly changed to not only \"(a) a…desire for and value given to in-group dominance over out-groups\" but also \"(b) the desire for nonegalitarian, hierarchical relationships between groups within the social system\" (p. 1007). The most recent measure of social dominance orientation (see SDO-6 above) focuses on the \"general desire for unequal relations among social groups, regardless of whether this means ingroup domination or ingroup subordination\" (p. 312). Given these changes, Rubin and Hewstone believe that evidence for social dominance theory should be considered \"as supporting three separate SDO hypotheses, rather than one single theory\" (p. 22).\n\nRobert Altemeyer said that people with a high SDO want more power (agreeing with items such as \"\"Winning is more important than how you play the game\") and are more Machiavellian (manipulative and amoral, agreeing with items such as \"There really is no such thing as\" 'right and wrong' and \"It all boils down to what you can get away with\"\").\n\nThese observations are at odds with conceptualisations of SDO as a group-based phenomenon, suggesting that the SDO reflects interpersonal dominance, not only group-based dominance. This is supported by Sidanius and Pratto's own evidence that high-SDO individuals tend to gravitate toward hierarchy-enhancing jobs and institutions, such as law enforcement, that are themselves hierarchically structured vis-a-vis individuals within them.\n\nSDO correlates weakly with right-wing authoritarianism (RWA) (r ≈ .18). Both predict attitudes, such as sexist, racist, and heterosexist attitudes. The two contribute to different forms of prejudice; SDO correlates to higher prejudice against subordinate and disadvantaged groups, RWA correlates to higher prejudice against threatening groups, while both are associated with increases in prejudice for \"dissident\" groups. SDO and RWA contribute to prejudice in an additive rather than interactive way (the interaction of SDO and RWA accounted, in one study, for an average of less than .001% variance in addition to their linear combination), that is the association between SDO and prejudice is similar regardless of a person's level of RWA, and vice versa. Crawford et al. (2013) found that RWA and SDO differentially predicted interpretations of media reports about socially threatening (for example, gays and lesbians) and disadvantaged groups (for example, African Americans), respectively. Subjects with high SDO, but not RWA, scores reacted positively to articles and authors that opposed affirmative action, and negatively to pro-affirmative-action article content. Moreover, RWA, but not SDO, predicted subjects' evaluations of same-sex relationships, such that high-RWA individuals favored anti-same-sex relationships article content and low-RWA individuals favorably rated pro-same-sex relationships content.\n\nStudies on the relationship of SDO with the higher order Big Five personality traits have associated high SDO with lower openness to experience and lower agreeableness. Meta-analytic aggregation of these studies indicates that the association with low Agreeableness is more robust than the link to Openness to experience. Individuals low in Agreeableness are more inclined to report being motivated by self-interest and self-indulgence\".\" They also tend to be more self-centred and are more 'tough-minded' compared to those who are high on Agreeableness, leading them to perceive the world to be a highly-competitive place, where the way to success is through power and dominance – all of which predict SDO.\n\nLow Openness, by contrast, aligns more strongly with RWA; thinking in clear and straightforward moral codes that dictate how society as a system should function. Being low in Openness prompts the individual to value security, stability and control: fundamental elements of RWA.\n\nIn case of SDO all five facets of Agreeableness significantly correlate (negatively), even after controlling for RWA. 'Tough-mindedness' (opposite of tender-mindedness' facet) is the strongest predictor of SDO. After the effect of SDO is controlled for only one facet of agreeableness is predictive of RWA. Facets also distinguish SDO from RWA, with 'Dominators' (individuals high on SDO), but not 'authoritarians' (individuals who score high on RWA), having been found to be lower in dutifulness, morality, sympathy and co-operation. RWA is also associated with religiosity, conservativism, righteousness, and, to some extent, a conscientious moral code, which distinguishes RWA from SDO.\n\nSDO is inversely related to empathy. Facets of Agreeableness that are linked to altruism, sympathy and compassion are the\nstrongest predictors of SDO. SDO has been suggested to have a link with callous affect (which is to be found on the psychopathy sub-scale), the 'polar opposite' of empathy.\n\nThe relationship between SDO and \"(lack of)\" empathy has been found to be reciprocal – with equivocal findings. Some studies show that empathy significantly impacts SDO, whereas other research suggest the opposite effect is more robust; that SDO predicts empathy. The latter showcases how powerful of a predictor SDO may be, not only affecting individual's certain behaviours, but potentially influencing upstream the\nproneness to those behaviours. It also suggests, that those scoring high on SDO proactively avoid scenarios that could prompt\nthem to be more empathetic or tender-minded. This avoidance decreases concern for other's welfare.\n\nEmpathy indirectly affects generalized prejudice through its negative relationship with SDO. It also\nhas a direct effect on generalized prejudice, as lack of empathy makes one unable to put oneself in the other person's shoes, which predicts prejudice and antidemocratic views.\n\nFelicia Pratto and her colleagues have found evidence that a high social dominance orientation is strongly correlated with conservative political views, and opposition to programs and policies that aim to promote equality (such as affirmative action, laws advocating equal rights for homosexuals, women in combat, etc.).\n\nThere has been some debate within the psychology community on what the relation is between SDO and racism/sexism. One explanation suggests that opposition to programs that promote equality need not be based on racism or sexism but on a \"principled conservatism\", that is, a \"concern for equity, color-blindness, and genuine conservative values\".\n\nSome principled-conservatism theorists have suggested that racism and conservatism are independent, and only very weakly correlated among the highly educated, who truly understand the concepts of conservative values and attitudes. In an effort to examine the relationship between education, SDO, and racism, Sidanius and his colleagues asked approximately 4,600 Euro-Americans to complete a survey in which they were asked about their political and social attitudes, and their social dominance orientation was assessed. \"These findings contradict much of the case for the principled conservatism hypothesis, which maintains that political values that are largely devoid of racism, especially among highly educated people.\" Contrary to what these theorists would predict, correlations among SDO, political conservatism, and racism were strongest among the most educated, and weakest among the least educated. Sidanius and his colleagues hypothesized this was because the most educated conservatives tend to be more invested in the hierarchical structure of society and in maintaining the inequality of the status quo in society in order to safeguard their status.\n\nSDO is typically measured as an individual personality construct. However, cultural forms of SDO have been discovered on the macro level of society. Discrimination, prejudice and stereotyping can occur at various levels of institutions in society, such as transnational corporations, government agencies, schools and criminal justice systems. The basis of this theory of societal level SDO is rooted in evolutionary psychology, which states that humans have an evolved predisposition to express social dominance that is heightened under certain social conditions (such as group status) and is also mediated by factors such as individual personality and temperament. Democratic societies are lower in SDO measures The more that a society encourages citizens to cooperate with others and feel concern for the welfare of others, the lower the SDO in that culture. High levels of national income and empowerment of women are also associated with low national SDO, whereas more traditional societies with lower income, male domination and more closed institutional systems are associated with a higher SDO. Individuals who are socialized within these traditional societies are more likely to internalize gender hierarchies and are less likely to challenge them.\n\nThe biology of SDO is unknown.\n\nPlenty of evidence suggests that men tend to score higher on SDO than women, and this is true across different countries,\ncultures, age-groups, classes, religions and educational levels. Researchers argue for an\n'invariance' in the difference between men and women's SDO; suggesting that even if all other factors were to be controlled for, the difference between men and women's SDO would still remain – this however in some cases is disproved.\n\nFrom an evolutionary and biological perspective SDO facilitates men to be successful in their reproductive strategy through\nachieving social power and control over other males and becoming desired mating partners for the opposite sex.\n\nMales are observed to be more socially hierarchical, as indicated by speaking time, and yielding to interruptions.\n\nNoting that males tend to have higher SDO scores than females, Sidanius and Pratto speculate that SDO may be influenced by hormones that differ between the sexes, namely androgens, primarily testosterone. Male levels of testosterone are much higher than that of females.\n\nTaking a socio-cultural perspective, it is argued that the gap between women and men in SDO is dependent upon societal norms prescribing different expectations for gender roles of men and women. Men are expected to be dominant and assertive, whereas women are supposed to be submissive and tender.\n\nDifferences between male and female attributional cognitive complexity is suggested contribute to the gender gap in SDO. Women have been found to be more attributionally complex compared to men; they use more contextual information and evaluate social information more precisely. It is proposed that lower social status prompts higher cognitive complexity in order to compensate for the lack of control in that social situation by processing it more attentively and evaluating it more in depth. The difference in cognitive complexity between high and low status individuals could contribute to the differences between male and female SDO.\n\n"}
{"id": "2200869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200869", "title": "Struldbrugg", "text": "Struldbrugg\n\nIn Jonathan Swift's novel \"Gulliver's Travels\", the name struldbrugg (sometimes spelled struldbrug) is given to those humans in the nation of Luggnagg who are born seemingly normal, but are in fact immortal. However, although struldbruggs do not \"die\", they do nonetheless continue \"aging\". Swift's work depicts the evil of immortality without eternal youth.\n\nThey are easily recognized by a red dot above their left eyebrow. They are normal human beings until they reach the age of thirty, at which time they become dejected. Upon reaching the age of eighty they become legally dead, and suffer from many ailments including the loss of eyesight and the loss of hair.\n\nStruldbruggs were forbidden to own property:\n\nAs soon as they have completed the term of eighty years, they are looked on as dead in law; their heirs immediately succeed to their estates; only a small pittance is reserved for their support; and the poor ones are maintained at the public charge. After that period, they are held incapable of any employment of trust or profit; they cannot purchase lands, or take leases; neither are they allowed to be witnesses in any cause, either civil or criminal or economic, not even for the decision of meers (metes) and bounds.\nBecause:\n\nOtherwise, as avarice is the necessary consequence of old age, those immortals would in time become proprietors of the whole nation, and engross the civil power, which, for want of abilities to manage, must end in the ruin of the\npublic.\nChinese Taoism placed the Island of the Immortals eastward from China, while Swift places the struldbrugs near Japan.\n\nThe term \"struldbrug\" has been used in science fiction, most prolifically by Larry Niven and Robert Silverberg, to describe supercentenarians.\n\n"}
{"id": "38904677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38904677", "title": "Suicide of Aleksandr Dolmatov", "text": "Suicide of Aleksandr Dolmatov\n\nAleksandr Yuryevich Dolmatov (; 12 September 1976 – 17 January 2013 Rotterdam) was a Russian opposition activist. Dolmatov committed suicide in a Dutch detention centre.\n\nDolmatov was born on 12 September 1976. In 2004 he took a job at a government-owned defense firm Tactical Missiles Corporation.\n\nDolmatov was a member of the unregistered National Bolshevik Party and the opposition party The Other Russia.\n\nBeginning in 2010 Dolmatov took part in all actions of Strategy-31, a series of civic protests in Moscow. Dolmatov was repeatedly detained during Strategy-31 actions.\n\nDolmatov had participated in the so-called \"March of Millions\", an opposition demonstration on 6 May 2012 which resulted in clashes with police. Dolmatov was detained by police.\n\nDolmatov went to the Netherlands in June 2012, fearing arrest in Russia. He sought political asylum there, but in December the Immigration and Naturalisation Service turned down his application. Dolmatov was found dead in a Rotterdam deportation centre early on 17 January 2013.\n\nOn 18 April 2013, the State Secretary for the Security and Justice, Fred Teeven, survived a vote of no confidence on his handling of asylum seekers; the debate was called following a Dutch government agency investigation of the suicide of Dolmatov found that multiple parts of the Dutch immigration system failed him, including medical, legal and state organizations.\n\nOn 18 January 2013, opposition activists picketed the Dutch Embassy in Moscow and Saint Petersburg, Russia and Kiev, Ukraine in memory of Aleksandr Dolmatov. Some observers remained convinced that Dolmatov committed suicide under duress after being approached twice by secret police.\n\nDolmatov's lawyer Yevgeny Arkhipov criticised the Dutch decision to place him in a deportation centre.\n\nRussia's Foreign Ministry said it had demanded the Netherlands investigate Aleksandr Dolmatov's death.\n\nThe Dutch ambassador to Moscow said that Dolmatov's death was not triggered by the refusal to grant him asylum in the Netherlands. The Dutch Queen Beatrix called the suicide of Dolmatov a \"great tragedy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50381181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50381181", "title": "Thomas Boden", "text": "Thomas Boden\n\nThomas Boden (born June 1860) was a Welsh footballer. He was part of the Wales national football team, playing 1 match on 15 March 1880 against England.\n\nAt club level, he played for Wrexham from 1879–1880. He played as a right wing in the 1879 Welsh Cup Final, where his team lost against Newtown White Star with 1-0.\n\n"}
{"id": "58708630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58708630", "title": "Tommaso Masini", "text": "Tommaso Masini\n\nTommaso di Giovanni Masini ( – 1520), known as Zoroaster Da Peretola, was a friend and collaborator of Leonardo Da Vinci.\n\nAccording to Scipione Ammirato, he was born in Peretola, near Florence, and he was the child of a gardener, althoug he said he was the Illegitimate child of Bernardo Rucellai, Lorenzo il Magnifico brother-in-law.\n\nIn 1505 he returned to Florence and worked with Leonardo in \"The Battle of Anghiari\". He proved the ornithopter and flew 1.000 meters before landing abruptly.\n\nHe was buried at the Church of Sant'Agata dei Goti.\n"}
{"id": "6834594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6834594", "title": "Transmarginal inhibition", "text": "Transmarginal inhibition\n\nIn psychology, Transmarginal inhibition, or TMI, is an organism's response to overwhelming stimuli.\n\nIvan Pavlov enumerated details of TMI on his work of conditioning animals to pain. He found that organisms had different levels of tolerance. He commented \"that the most basic inherited difference among people was how soon they reached this shutdown point and that the quick-to-shut-down have a fundamentally different type of nervous system.\" \n\nPatients who have reached this shutdown point often become socially dysfunctional or develop one of several personality disorders. Often patients who dissociate during and after the experience, will more easily dissociate or shut down during stressful or painful experiences, and may experience post traumatic stress disorder for the remainder of their lives.\n\nThere are three stages passed through for state of TMI to be reached.\n\nAdditional research on these phases was done by William Sargant in his work on shell-shocked servicemen.\n\nAn organism can progress through these stages by increased stimulation, random negative stimulation, reversing positive and negative stimulation, or physically debilitating the organism. \n\nAs observed by Pavlov, tolerance of stimulation varies greatly between individuals. Highly sensitive persons may be overstimulated by the loud volumes in a movie theater or the background confusion of a large social gathering. Other individuals will find those same stimulations as ideal stimulation levels, or even understimulating.\n\nThe \"sudden conversion\" methods of mental conditioning rely heavily on TMI. Of the ten elements of control (environment control, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, tension or uncertainty, confession, superstimulation, crisis, euphoria, proselytization, and restimulation), six can be seen as stimulation toward TMI.\n"}
{"id": "37364851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37364851", "title": "Tumor-associated macrophage", "text": "Tumor-associated macrophage\n\nTumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are a class of immune cells present in high numbers in the microenvironment of solid tumors. They are heavily involved in cancer-related inflammation. Macrophages are known to originate from bone marrow-derived blood monocytes (monocyte-derived macrophages) or yolk sac progenitors (tissue-resident macrophages), but the exact origin of TAMs in human tumors remains to be elucidated. The composition of monocyte-derived macrophages and tissue-resident macrophages in the tumor microenvironment depends on the tumor type, stage, size, and location, thus it has been proposed that TAM identity and heterogeneity is the outcome of interactions between tumor-derived, tissue-specific, and developmental signals.\n\nAlthough there is some debate, most evidence suggests that TAMs have a tumor-promoting phenotype. TAMs affect most aspects of tumor cell biology and drive pathological phenomena including tumor cell proliferation, tumor angiogenesis, invasion and metastasis, immunosuppression, and drug resistance.\n\nTumor angiogenesis is the process by which a tumor forms new blood vessels in order to maintain a supply of nutrients and oxygen and to grow beyond a few millimeters in size. The formation of vasculature also facilitates the escape of malignant cells into blood circulation and the onset of metastasis. One of the primary tumor-promoting mechanisms of TAMs is the secretion of potent pro-angiogenic factors. The most highly expressed and well-characterized angiogenic factor produced by TAMs is vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A). TAMs accumulate in hypoxic regions of the tumor, which induces the expression of hypoxia-inducible factors (HIF-1) that regulate VEGF expression. In addition to producing VEGF-A, TAMs have been shown to modulate VEGF-A concentration through matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 activity and by producing WNT7B that induces endothelial cells to produce VEGF-A.\n\nIn addition to VEGF-A, TAMs secrete the pro-angiogenic factors tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), basic fibroblast growth factor, urokinase-type plasminogen activator, adrenomedullin, and semaphorin 4D. Moreover, cytokines produced by TAMs induce tumor cells to produce pro-angiogenic factors, thereby working cooperatively to turn on the angiogenic switch.\n\nA class of TAMs expressing Tie2 have been shown to induce tumor angiogenesis. Tie2 TAMs associate with blood vessels through angiopoietin-2 produced by endothelial cells and activate angiogenesis through paracrine signaling. When angiopoietin-2 is bound, these TAMs upregulate expression of more angiogenic factors, such as thymidine phosphorylase and cathepsin B. Angiopoietin-2 also causes Tie2 TAMs to express T-cell regulating factors interleukin (IL)-10 and chemokine (C-C motif) ligand (CCL) 17; these factors limit T-cell proliferation and upregulate expansion of regulatory T cells, allowing tumor cells to evade immune responses. Moreover, tumor-produced colony stimulating factor-1 (CSF1), which regulates macrophage lineage, increases expression of Tie2 on TAMs, suggesting that CSF1 and Tie2 TAMs may play a role in the angiogenic switch.\n\nTumor lymphangiogenesis is closely related to tumor angiogenesis, and there is substantial evidence that factors produced by TAMs, especially those of the VEGF family and their receptor tyrosine kinases, are responsible for this link.\n\nOne of the major functions of TAMs is suppressing the T-cell mediated anti-tumor immune response. Gene expression analysis of mouse models of breast cancer and fibrosarcoma shows that TAMs have immunosuppressive transcriptional profiles and express factors including IL-10 and transforming growth factor β (TGFβ). In humans, TAMs have been shown to directly suppress T cell function through surface presentation of programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) in hepatocellular carcinoma and B7-homologs in ovarian carcinoma, which activate programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), respectively, on T cells. Inhibitory signals to PD-1 and CTLA-4 are immune checkpoints, and binding of these inhibitory receptors by their ligands prevents T cell receptor signaling, inhibits T cells cytotoxic function, and promotes T cell apoptosis. HIF-1α also induces TAMs to suppress T cell function through arginase-1, but the mechanism by which this occurs is not yet fully understood.\n\nTAMs have historically been described as falling into two categories: M1 and M2. M1 refers to macrophages that undergo “classical” activation by interferon-γ (IFNγ) with either lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or TNF, whereas M2 refers to macrophages that undergo “alternative” activation by IL-4. M1 macrophages are seen to have a pro-inflammatory and cytotoxic (anti-tumoral) function; M2 macrophages are anti-inflammatory (pro-tumoral) and promote wound healing. However, use of the M1/M2 polarization paradigm has led to confusing terminology since M1/M2 are used to describe mature macrophages, but the activation process is complex and involves many related cells in the macrophage family. Moreover, with recent evidence that macrophage populations are tissue- and tumor-specific, it has been proposed that classifying macrophages, including TAMs, as being in one of two distinct stable subsets is insufficient. Rather, TAMs should be viewed as existing on a spectrum. More comprehensive classification systems that account for the dynamic nature of macrophages have been proposed, but have not been adopted by the immunological research community.\n\nIn many tumor types TAM infiltration level has been shown to be of significant prognostic value. TAMs have been linked to poor prognosis in breast cancer, ovarian cancer, types of glioma and lymphoma; better prognosis in colon and stomach cancers and both poor and better prognoses in lung and prostate cancers.\n\nClinically, in 128 patients with breast cancer it was found that patients with more M2 tumor-associated macrophages had higher-grade tumors, greater microvessel density, and worse overall survival. Patients with more M1 tumor-associated macrophages displayed the opposite effect.\n\nCSF1R inhibitors have been developed as a potential route to reduce the presence of TAMs in the tumor microenvironment. As of 2017, CSF1R inhibitors that are currently in early stage clinical trials include Pexidartinib, PLX7486, ARRY-382, JNJ-40346527, BLZ945, Emactuzumab, AMG820, IMC-CS4, MCS110, and Cabiralizumab. CSF1R inhibitors such as PLX3397 have also been shown to alter the distribution of TAMs throughout the tumor and promote enrichment of the classically activated M1-like phenotype.\n\nOther approaches to enhance tumor response to chemotherapies that have been tested in preclinical models include blocking macrophage recruitment to the tumor site, re-polarizing TAMs, and promoting TAM activation. Remaining challenges in targeting TAMs include determining whether to target depletion or repolarization in combination therapies, and for which tumor types and at what tumor stage TAM-targeted therapy is effective. Re-polarization of TAMs from a M2 to M1 phenotype by drug treatments has shown the ability to control tumor growth, including in combination with checkpoint inhibitor therapy.\n\n"}
{"id": "35235332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35235332", "title": "Wael Mikhael incident", "text": "Wael Mikhael incident\n\nThe Wael Mikhael incident occurred on October 9, 2011 when two Egyptian journalists, Wael Mikhael, also known as Wael Yunna and Mikhael, also spelled Mikhail, and Mina Daniel, were killed while covering a demonstration that turned into a violent clash between the Egyptian military and Coptic protesters. Mikhael was reporting as a cameraman for the Coptic Orthodox Christian TV station in Cairo and was shot in the head while filming what was supposed to be a peaceful demonstration. Mina was reporting as a political activist blogger and was shot in the shoulder and leg.\n\nEgypt's Coptic Christians, who make up more than ten percent of Egypt’s 85 million people say they are repeatedly attacked and have long complained of discrimination in both jobs and politics. In Egypt, Christians have felt vulnerable for many years, even before Hosni Mubarak was deposed in 2011. Of far more concern, however, was the sense that the army was involved in the bloodshed.\n\nOn 9 October 2011, thousands, mainly Coptic Christians, joined a march from the Shubra district of northern Cairo to the state TV building in Maspero Square where they intended to hold a peaceful sit-in. The sit-in was organized to protest the state’s TV position of fanning the flames of anti-Christian agitation. The demonstrators were assaulted first by attackers in plain clothes then military armored cars run over people. Thousands joined in the street violence, hurling stones and firing live ammunition into the crowd. What started as a peaceful protest march ended up with 25 dead, 21 of them Coptic Christians, some run over by armored vehicles driven by soldiers supposedly policing the event, others clashing with Muslim extremist.\n\nDanial’s sister said, \"Mina was a very kind, righteous person, and he dreamed of Egypt becoming like Europe, where the young people don't have to travel abroad to live their dreams,\". Doctors and Interior Ministry officials said bullet wounds accounted for most of the deaths, including that of Mina Daniel, who was shot in the shoulder and leg. More than 300 others were wounded in four hours of street fights, the Health Ministry said. \n\n\"Witnesses, victims and doctors said Monday that demonstrators were killed when military-led security forces drove armored vehicles over as many as six people and fired live ammunition into the crowds. Doctors at a Coptic hospital showed journalists 17 bodies, including one with a crushed skull and others with mangled limbs\".\n\nTwo media rights groups are calling on Egyptian authorities to investigate the deaths. The International Press Institute (IPI) is concerned about the reports of attacks on private television station while filming deadly clashes between protestors speaking out against perceived religious discrimination, and the military who were also supported by a group of protestors.\n"}
{"id": "3417365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3417365", "title": "Walking with Monsters", "text": "Walking with Monsters\n\nWalking with Monsters (distributed in North America as \"Before the Dinosaurs - Walking with Monsters\") is a three-part British documentary film series about life in the Paleozoic and early Mesozoic eras. It is a prequel to \"Walking with Dinosaurs\" and, as with previous \"Walking with...\" instalments, was written and directed by Tim Haines and narrated by Kenneth Branagh. It first aired on BBC Three and BBC One in November and December 2005. At the 58th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2006 it won the Emmy Award in the category Outstanding Animated Program (For Programming One Hour or More).\n\nDrawing on the knowledge of over 600 scientists, the series depicts Paleozoic history, from the Cambrian Period (530 million years ago) to the Early Triassic Period (248 million years ago),\nand extinct arthropods, fish, amphibians, synapsids, and reptiles.\n\nThe series first aired as a single 90-minute instalment on BBC Three, followed by a weekly episodic broadcast on BBC One. The first episode received 4.57 million viewers on BBC One; Viewing figures for the remaining broadcasts did not reach the Top 30 and/or Top 10 Programs. The series has also aired as a two-hour special on the Canadian and American Discovery Channel with an alternate narrator, although Branagh's narration can still sometimes be heard.\n\nUnlike previous series, each period begins with \"tech specs\" highlighting specific traits of that period (location of fossil finds from that period, oxygen content/global temperature, and hazards) and it also features evolution sequences between periods and looks inside creatures to show new evolutionary traits that humans apparently would later adopt. The major difference is that, similar to \"Sea Monsters\" before it, there are only three episodes, each containing two to three segments in time, instead of six full episodes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1227786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227786", "title": "William A. Mitchell", "text": "William A. Mitchell\n\nDr. William A. \"Bill\" Mitchell (October 21, 1911 – July 26, 2004) was an American food chemist who, while working for General Foods Corporation between 1941 and 1976, was the key inventor behind Pop Rocks, Tang, quick-set Jell-O, Cool Whip, and powdered egg whites. During his career he received over 70 patents.\n\nHe was born in Raymond, Minnesota. Mitchell graduated with a Master's degree in Chemistry from the University of Nebraska. Mitchell got a research job at an Agricultural Experiment Station in Lincoln, Nebraska. A lab accident there left him with second- and third-degree burns over most of his body. He joined General Foods in 1941. His first major success came with a tapioca substitute he helped develop during World War II, in response to the disruption of cassava supplies. Because of this, tapioca quickly became known as \"Mitchell mud\" within the US WW II infantry.\n\nAlthough Pop Rocks didn't hit the market until 1975, he received patent 3,012,893 for its manufacturing process in 1961. Mitchell was a resident of Lincoln Park, New Jersey for many years before moving out west after his retirement in 1976.\n\nHe was married to Ruth Cobbey Mitchell and they had seven children: Bill, Charlie, Mike, John, Jan, Steve and Cheryl. He moved to Stockton after her death in 1999. Mitchell died of heart failure on July 26, 2004, at the age of 92 in Stockton, California where he was living with his daughter.\n"}
{"id": "58843957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58843957", "title": "Zheng Xiaosong", "text": "Zheng Xiaosong\n\nZheng Xiaosong (; September 1959 – 20 October 2018) was a Chinese politician and diplomat. He was Director of the Macau Liaison Office, a ministerial-level position, until he fell to his death from his residence in October 2018. He formerly served as Deputy Director of the International Liaison Department of the Communist Party of China, Vice Governor of Fujian Province, and secretary-general of the Fujian Provincial Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC).\n\nZheng was a member of the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and a delegate to the 13th National People's Congress.\n\nZheng was born in September 1959 in Beijing, China. He graduated from the University of Oslo with a degree in Norwegian language, and received diplomatic training at the University of Oxford from 1996 to 1997.\n\nFor most of his career Zheng served in diplomatic and international finance positions, including first-grade secretary of the Western Europe Bureau of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Director of the International Department of the Chinese Ministry of Finance, Assistant Finance Minister, and Chinese Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank.\n\nZheng was promoted to major political posts after Party General Secretary Xi Jinping came to power in 2012. He was appointed Vice Governor of Fujian Province in July 2013, and later became a member of the standing committee and secretary-general of the Fujian Provincial Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC).\n\nIn 2016, Zheng was transferred back to Beijing to serve as Deputy Director of the International Liaison Department of the Communist Party of China. A month before the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC), he was promoted to Director of the Macau Liaison Office, a ministerial-level position in charge of relations between the central government and the Macau Special Administrative Region. He was elected as a member of the 19th Central Committee of the CPC.\n\nOn 20 October 2018, Zheng died in Macau after falling from a tall building where he lived. He was 59. The Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office in Beijing issued a statement saying that he had suffered from depression, with the implication that he had committed suicide. On Chinese social media many expressed concern and sadness about his depression, but others noted that at least 7 other Chinese officials have fallen from buildings this year, with one injured and at least 6 dead. Although there is no evidence that Zheng was suspected of corruption, in recent years hundreds of mid-level Chinese officials accused of corruption have died, reportedly by suicide, although observers have doubted such accounts. \nZheng died just days before the 23 October opening of the Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge, the world's longest sea crossing linking Macau and Hong Kong. Bruce Lui Ping-kuen, convener of Hong Kong's Independent Commentators Association, claimed that in order to avoid speculation that might disturb Party General Secretary Xi Jinping's visit for the opening of the bridge, Beijing had been too quick to conclude that Zheng had died while suffering from depression, a conclusion they announced even before the completion of the investigation by the Macao police.. Such reported suicides have been much more common during Xi's leadership than during that of his predecessor Hu Jintao. The Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, which announced that his death had been due to depression, has been investigated for corruption since 2016 by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and criticized by it for its \"six sins\", and other Hong Kong and Macao official organizations have also been suspected of corruption.\n"}
