{"id": "15485731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15485731", "title": "1968 Democratic National Convention protest activity", "text": "1968 Democratic National Convention protest activity\n\nProtest activity against the Vietnam War took place prior to and during the 1968 Democratic National Convention.\n\nIn 1967, counterculture and anti-Vietnam War protest groups had been promising to come to Chicago and disrupt the convention, and the city promised to maintain law and order. For eight days the protesters were met by the Chicago Police Department in the streets and parks of Chicago while the U.S. Democratic Party met at the convention in the International Amphitheater, with the protests climaxing in what a major report later said was a \"police riot\" on the night of August 28, 1968.\n\nThe Youth International Party was one of the major groups in the organization of the protests. Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin, and a few friends engaged in conversation at Hoffman's apartment on New Year's Eve, 1967. They discussed the events of the year, such as the Summer of Love and the Pentagon demonstration. The idea of having a free music festival in Chicago was suggested to defuse political tension. Over the next week, the Youth International Party (known as Yippie) took shape. Yippie politicized hippie ideology and used street theater and other tactics to critique the culture of the United States and induce change.\n\nIn preparation for the Chicago convention, the Yippies held the \"Yip-In\", and the \"Yip-Out\" at Grand Central Station in New York City. Both events were planned simply as \"be-ins\", with live music. The event was used to promote peace, love and harmony, and as a trial run for Chicago. The black banner of an anarchist group was hung on the wall, bearing the words, \"Up Against the Wall Mother Fucker\" in red. Police stood by watching the crowds. As the \"Yip-In\" progressed, relations between the police and Yippies became strained. Two people climbed a large clock and removed the hands; the police responded by clearing the station. They formed a skirmish line, ordered the people to disperse, and then started forcing their way through the crowd.\n\nThe \"Yip-Out\" was similar in purpose, but held in Central Park. To obtain the permits and aid from New York City officials necessary for the event, Yippies performed a sit-in at the mayor's office until the Mayor would negotiate on permits. In the end, an agreement was made on staging, electricity, police presence, bathrooms, and other necessities for running a music festival. Police milled in the crowd giving considerable leeway to the proceedings which led to a peaceable day.\n\nThe Yippies took a radical approach to the Democratic National Convention. They wrote articles, published fliers, made speeches and held rallies and demonstrations, to announce that they were coming to Chicago. Threats were made that nails would be thrown from overpasses to block roads; cars would be used to block intersections, main streets, police stations and National Guard armories; LSD would be dumped in the city's water supply and the convention would be stormed. However, none of these threats came to fruition. Nonetheless, city officials in Chicago prepared for all possible threats. A vilification campaign led by Chicago authorities worked in favor of the Yippies' plan.\nOne of the Yippies' main tactics was to use street theatre to create an experience that drew the attention of mainstream America. Yippie activities were used to put across the message that the average American didn't have control over the political process. They tried to show this by purposefully participating in non-traditional activities that would not conceivably affect the decision making process in the convention hall, unlike a \"straight\" protest with picket lines, marches, and rallies which could conceivably convince delegates of mass support for a program. On a Wednesday night, networks moved their coverage away from the Amphitheater where the delegates were voting on the nomination, to a \"pitched battle\" in front of the Conrad Hilton hotel.\n\nThe other main group behind the convention protests was the National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam (often referred to as \"MOBE\"). MOBE was an umbrella organization that included groups who were opposed to American participation in the Vietnam War. MOBE was run by a small executive board that set up a general framework for mass demonstrations, sent out invitations to the over 500 groups on its mailing lists, and coordinated activities between the groups. MOBE recognized and supported all tactics from marching to civil disobedience. MOBE's main aim was to get the largest turnouts at its functions. David Dellinger, MOBE chairman, believed that \"The tendency to intensify militancy without organizing wide political support [was] self-defeating. But so [was] the tendency to draw way from militancy into milder and more conventional forms of protest.\"\n\nFor Chicago, MOBE originally planned for two large-scale marches and an end of convention rally at Soldier Field. The goal was originally a massive show of force outside the International Amphitheatre. MOBE also planned to have workshops and movement centers distributed in 10 parks throughout the city, many in predominantly black areas, to allow demonstrators and participating groups to follow their particular focuses.\n\nIn the buildup to the Convention, Chicago mayor Richard J. Daley repeatedly announced \"Law and order will be maintained\".\n\nChicago's security forces prepared for the protests during the convention. Besides the standard gun and billy club, Chicago Police Department officers had mace and riot helmets. For the convention, the CPD borrowed a new portable communications system from the military, thus increasing communication between field officers and command posts. All summer long, police officers had received refresher training on crowd control and riot techniques. During the convention itself, Police Academy instructors were with the reserve forces, giving last minute reminders.\n\nTo satisfy manpower requirements, the City put the force on 12-hour shifts, instead of the normal 8-hour shifts. This gave police commanders approximately 50% more field officers to deal with disturbances. Two-thirds of the officers would continue with the normal police duties with the remaining third available for special assignment. In the Amphitheatre, the City concentrated 500 officers filling various roles. In Lincoln Park, the number of officers patrolling during the daytime was doubled, but the majority of the officers assigned to the Lincoln Park area were held in reserve, ready to respond to any disturbance. In suspected trouble areas, police patrols were heavy. Further away from the center patrols were less frequent. This allowed the police to shift easily and quickly to control a problem without leaving an area unguarded. While maintaining a public image of total enforcement of all city, state, and federal laws, the Narcotics division was quietly reassigned to regular fieldwork, curtailing anti-drug operations during the DNC.\nPolice officials and Mayor Daley had worked with the National Guard to create a plan to effectively use the Guard. It would be called up at the beginning of the convention, but held in reserve at strategically placed armories or collection points such as Soldier Field. With the Guard in place at their armories, the CPD could request and receive assistance quickly.\n\nBoth MOBE and Yippie needed permits from the city in order to hold their respective events. The City had several reasons for denying permits to MOBE and Yippie and thus stalled issuing permits. The City was worried about a black rebellion, independent of the white protesters, during the convention. To avoid trouble, the City used its influence with black community organizations such as The Woodlawn Organization, the Black Consortium, and Operation Breadbasket to try to keep their constituents calm and peaceful. Some of the militant black leaders were encouraged to leave town during the convention to avoid being implicated in any violence. The City also believed that having large numbers of white protesters marching through the black ghettos with a heavy police or National Guard escort would inflame the ghettos and set off rioting. Therefore, the City categorically denied any permit that included parks in or march routes through black areas.\n\nAnother argument the City used to deny permits was that the permits asked the City to set aside local and state ordinances. A city ordinance closed the city parks at 11 pm, although this was not strictly enforced. In a letter to Yippie, Deputy Mayor David Stahl gave eight rules for Yippie to follow, including submitting detailed plans and requirements, following all city, state, and federal ordinances, and toning down the rhetoric. The Yippies refused, so the City felt justified in denying Yippie their permits. In a last-ditch effort, MOBE filed a lawsuit in federal court seeking it to force Chicago to issue permits for a rally in Soldier Field or Grant Park. Judge Lynch, Daley's former law partner, heard the case, and summarily dismissed the request, citing that the city could deny permits on the basis of protecting \"public comfort, convenience, and welfare.\"\n\nThe start of the convention week's violence is sometimes traced to the shooting of Dean Johnson by Chicago police officers. Dean Johnson, age 17, and another boy were stopped on the sidewalk by the officers for a curfew violation early on the morning of Thursday, August 22. When Johnson drew and fired a pistol at police (the gun misfired), police officers returned fire, hitting Johnson three times. The Yippies and SDS hastily organized a memorial service for Johnson, but as one observer noted, due to poor planning \"it turned out that no one had made any plans to actually do anything. We just milled around and began to fill up the intersection. Two squad cars pulled up and the cops got out and told us to keep moving ... but they were pretty gentle about it\".\n\nOn Friday, August 23, the planned protests began. Jerry Rubin and other Yippies attempted to formally nominate the Yippie candidate for president, Pigasus, a pig. By the time Rubin arrived with Pigasus, several hundred spectators and reporters had gathered on the Civic Center plaza. Police officers were waiting, and as soon as the pig was released, Rubin, folk singer Phil Ochs, and five other Yippies were arrested.\n\nAt 6 a.m. on Saturday, August 24, continuous surveillance began in Lincoln Park. For the previous several nights, the police had cleared Lincoln Park at 11 pm and maintained a significant presence during the day. Women Strike for Peace attempted to hold a women-only picket at the Hilton Hotel, the main delegate hotel. Despite plans for buses from around the country to bring hundreds of picketers, only 60 or so women showed up. This apparently failed protest was the catalyst for much of the convention week violence as MOBE and the SDS contingent realized that their \"'liberal base' [had] finked out big\". It appeared that the expected hundreds of thousands of protesters would not be descending upon Chicago to disrupt the convention with their presence. It was generally agreed upon to not attempt to stay in Lincoln Park after the curfew, but to rather take the protest to the streets. At exactly 11 pm, poet Allen Ginsberg led protesters out of the park into the streets. SDS leaders organized several hundred protesters to march through the streets chanting things such as 'Peace Now' while the police simply guarded Lincoln Park. When the crowd stopped at Wells and North Avenue, blocking the intersection, a police contingent arrived and cleared the crowd. Eleven people were arrested and several police cars were stoned before the crowd dispersed into the normal Saturday nightlife.\n\nOn Sunday, MOBE had scheduled a 'Meet the Delegates' march and picket. At 2 p.m. there were between 200 and 300 picketers marching across the street from the Conrad Hilton, and another 500 marching south through the Loop chanting, \"Hey, Hey LBJ, how many kids did you kill today\". After the police arrival, those who were picketing moved into nearby Grant Park to avoid a mass arrest situation. Once the marchers had reached Grant Park, there was a brief rally where Davis and Hayden claimed the day a success, and then went to Lincoln Park where the Festival of Life music festival was beginning.\nAt 4 pm, the Festival started with MC5, the only band who showed up for the festival. The police did not allow a flatbed truck to be brought in as a stage, fearing Yippie would use it to incite the crowd. When the concession stand owner insisted that Yippie stop using his electrical outlets to run the amplification equipment, confusion ensued. While Rubin and other Yippies tried to make frantic deals to get the sound back on, Hoffman used the confusion to try to bring in the flatbed truck. A deal was struck allowing the truck to be parked nearby, but not in, the park. The crowd that had gathered around and on the truck did not realize an agreement had been reached and thought the truck was being sent away. The crowd surged around the truck, pinning in the police officers.\n\nHoffman declared that the police had stopped the music festival, and proceeded to conduct a workshop on dispersal tactics to avoid arrest by police. As the next police shift came on duty, they were informed of the tense situation in the park. Due to the number, frequency, diverseness, and exposure of the threats made by the protesters, the police were concerned about facing protesters armed with unknown weapons and unknown intentions.\n\nAt 9 pm, police formed a skirmish line around the park bathrooms. This drew a crowd of spectators who heckled the police. The crowd rapidly grew until the police charged into the crowd swinging their batons, scattering the crowd. The protesters exaggerated the violence and numbers of the police, and the police exaggerated the violence and numbers of the protesters. At 11 pm the police pushed the protesters out of the park. Most protesters left the park and congregated nearby, taunting the police.\n\nInitially when the police reached the edge of the park, they maintained their skirmish line, however when a squad was ordered to 'clear' Clark Street to keep traffic flowing the police lost control. A running battle began. Yippie Jerry Rubin told a friend \"This is fantastic and it's only Sunday night. They might declare martial law in this town.\" Order was not restored in Old Town until early Monday morning.\n\nIn Mayor Daley's convention report, a list of 152 officers \"wounded\" on Wednesday's melee was presented. Their wounds ranged from an officer's split fingernail to an officer's infra-orbital fracture of the left eye. Although the precise number of injured protesters is unknown, Dr. Quentin Young of the Medical Committee for Human Rights (MCHR) stated that approximately most of the 500 people treated in the streets suffered from minor injuries and the effects of tear gas. During the entirety of convention week, 101 civilians were treated for undisclosed injuries, by area hospitals, 45 of those on Wednesday night.\n\nOn the convention floor, several delegates made statements against Mayor Daley and the CPD, like Senator Abraham Ribicoff who denounced the use of \"Gestapo tactics on the streets of Chicago\" in his speech nominating George McGovern. \"Village Voice\" reporter Paul Cowan asked his editor not to print a story about the throwing of objects at the police, in hope to provoke reprisals to publish a story on the police riot which \"seemed to me a far greater evil than the fact that some kids had wanted to provoke it\".\n\nThe rest of the convention week violence followed the pattern set Sunday night. Protestors were joined on 28 August by the Poor People's Campaign, now led by the Southern Christian Leadership Conference's Ralph Abernathy. This group had a permit and was split off from other demonstrators before being allowed to proceed to the amphitheater. The hard line taken by the City was also seen on the convention floor itself. In 1968, Terry Southern described the convention hall as \"exactly like approaching a military installation; barbed-wire, checkpoints, the whole bit\". Inside the convention, journalists such as Mike Wallace and Dan Rather were roughed up by security; both these events were broadcast live on television.\n\nSubsequently, the \"Walker Report\" to the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence assigned blame for the mayhem in the streets to the police force, calling the violence a \"police riot\". It later became said that on that night, America voted for Richard M. Nixon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "290164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290164", "title": "1984 New York City Subway shooting", "text": "1984 New York City Subway shooting\n\nThe 1984 New York City Subway shooting took place on December 22, 1984, when four teenagers, Barry Allen, Troy Canty, Darrell Cabey and James Ramseur were shot by Bernhard Goetz on a New York City Subway train in Manhattan. All four were seriously wounded.\n\nGoetz, who had used an unlicensed firearm in the shooting, surrendered to police nine days later and was charged with attempted murder, assault, reckless endangerment, and several firearms offenses. A jury found him not guilty of all charges except for one count of carrying an unlicensed firearm, for which he served eight months of a one-year sentence. In 1996, Cabey, who had been left paraplegic and brain damaged as a result of his injuries, obtained a civil judgment of $43 million against Goetz.\n\nThe incident sparked a nationwide debate on race and crime in major cities, the legal limits of self-defense, and the extent to which the citizenry could rely on the police to secure their safety. Goetz, dubbed the \"Subway Vigilante\" by the New York press, came to symbolize New Yorkers' frustrations with the high crime rates of the 1980s. He was both praised and vilified in the media and public opinion. The incident has also been cited as a contributing factor to the groundswell movement against urban crime and disorder, and the successful National Rifle Association campaigns to loosen restrictions on the concealed carrying of firearms.\n\nBernhard Goetz stated that, while transporting electronic equipment in 1981, he was attacked in the Canal Street subway station by three youths in an attempted robbery. The attackers smashed Goetz into a plate-glass door and threw him to the ground, permanently injuring his chest and knee. Goetz assisted an off-duty officer in arresting one of them; the other two attackers escaped. Goetz was angered when the arrested attacker spent less than half the time in the police station spent by Goetz himself, and he was angered further when this attacker was charged only with criminal mischief for ripping Goetz's jacket. Goetz subsequently applied for a permit to carry a concealed handgun, on the basis of routinely carrying valuable equipment and large sums of cash, but his application was denied for insufficient need. He bought a 5-shot .38-caliber revolver during a trip to Florida.\n\nIn the early afternoon of Saturday, December 22, 1984, four African-American men from the Bronx—Barry Allen, Troy Canty, and Darrell Cabey, all 19; and James Ramseur, 18—boarded a downtown train (Broadway–Seventh Avenue express). The men, each of whom previously had been arrested and convicted at least once, were on their way to rob a video arcade in Manhattan. When the train arrived at the 14th Street station in Manhattan, fifteen to twenty other passengers remained with them in R22 subway car 7657, the seventh car of the ten-car train.\n\nAt the 14th Street station, Goetz entered the car through the rearmost door, crossed the aisle and took a seat on the long bench across from the door. Canty was across the aisle from him, lying on the long bench just to the right of the door. Allen was seated to Canty's left, on the short seat on the other side of the door. Ramseur and Cabey were seated across from the door and to Goetz's right, on the short seat by the conductor's cab. According to Goetz's statement to the police, approximately ten seconds later, Canty asked him, \"How are you doing?\" Goetz responded, \"Fine.\" According to Goetz, the four men gave signals to each other, and shortly thereafter Canty and Allen rose from their seats and moved over to the left of Goetz, blocking him off from the other passengers in the car. By Goetz's account, Canty then said, \"Give me five dollars.\" Canty and Ramseur testified at the criminal trial that they were panhandling, and had only requested the money, not demanded it. Cabey did not testify and Allen took the Fifth Amendment.\n\nSources differ in reporting the sequence of shots fired, and whether Cabey was shot once or twice. The following are four versions from significant or reliable sources describing the sequence of shots:\n\nPrior to the criminal trial, the media reported that Cabey had been shot on the fourth shot and then again on the fifth shot, with Goetz saying, \"You don't look too bad, here's another,\" or, \"You seem all right, here's another.\" This sequence of shots was discredited at the criminal trial when it was revealed that Cabey was shot once in the left side; however, some media still reported this sequence long after the criminal trial.\n\n\"Speed is everything,\" Goetz said in a videotaped statement made after he surrendered nine days later. He told police that while still seated, he planned a \"pattern of fire\" from left to right. He then stood, stepped clear of Canty, drew his revolver, turned back to Canty, and fired four shots, one at each man, then fired a fifth shot. At the civil trial years later he said, \"I was trying to get as many of them as I could.\" Other sources repeated Goetz's statements to New York City police as to the sequence of shots: Canty was shot first, then Allen, then Ramseur, then Cabey. In the related proceeding \"People v. Goetz\", the New York Court of Appeals summarized the incident:\n\nAccording to his statements to police, Goetz checked the first two men to make sure that they had been \"taken care of,\" then upon seeing that the fourth man, Cabey, was now sitting down and seemed unhurt, said, \"You seem to be all right, here's another,\" and fired at him again. Cabey was shot only once, a fact not made known to Goetz or his attorneys until shortly before the trial. One bullet missed, fragmenting on the steel cab wall behind Cabey. (The missed shot would also be the basis of a charge of reckless endangerment of other passengers.)\n\nAt the Bronx civil trial, Goetz testified the first shot was Canty, Allen second, the third shot missed, Cabey fourth, and Ramseur fifth. The following similar shooting sequence is from Goetz's website:\n\nGoetz does a shooting demonstration (five shots in 1.0 seconds) on the Biography Channel show \"Aftermath with William Shatner\".\n\nGoetz said one of the \"boys\" made gestures that may have implied he had a weapon. Goetz rose and partly unzipped his jacket where the revolver was concealed, and plotted his \"pattern of fire\" for shooting them. He asked Canty what he had said, and he repeated his statement. At this, Goetz unzipped his jacket the rest of the way, drew the gun, assumed a combat stance gripping the revolver with both hands, and shot Canty through the center of his body. He then turned to shoot Allen who had tried to flee, hitting him in the back, and then shot Ramseur, wounding him in the chest and arm. He then shot again, at Cabey, but may have missed. According to Goetz he then approached Cabey and shot him on the ground; however, another witness disputed that Goetz shot Cabey a second time.\n\nCabey ended up slumped in the short seat in the corner of the car next to the conductor's cab. Whether Cabey was struck by the fourth shot or by the fifth was critical to Goetz's claim of self-defense; this issue was fiercely contested at trial. Medical testimony said that such an injury would render the lower half of Cabey's body instantly useless. According to the prosecution, the fourth shot missed; then Goetz shot a seated Cabey at point-blank range with the fifth. The defense theory of how Cabey ended up in the seat was that he was standing when hit by the fourth shot, then collapsed into the seat due to the lurching and swaying of the train; with the fifth shot being the shot that missed.\n\nA summary of Goetz's statements to the police had become public two months after the incident, drawing intense media coverage. Probably most damaging to Goetz's public support and to his claim of acting in self-defense was his statement that he had said, \"You don't look so bad, here's another,\" before firing at Cabey a second time. Media concentration on the summary's more damning portions created a public mindset that a wounded Cabey was shot a second time, with the second shot taken in a premeditated and deliberate way—an impression that stood uncorrected until the criminal trial two years later. The notion that Cabey was shot twice would still occasionally appear in mainstream sources over a decade later, as it did in a 1996 \"New York Times\" editorial.\n\nAt trial, one witness testified that Goetz approached to within \"two to three feet\" of a seated Cabey, then demonstrated how Goetz stood directly in front of Cabey and fired downward, a description that matched Goetz's published statements. Eight other independent witnesses testified that all shots came in \"rapid succession\"; one of these said the firing lasted \"about a second\". None of the eight heard a pause before the final shot, and none saw Goetz standing in front of Cabey.\n\nWhether Goetz actually said aloud the words \"You don't look so bad, here's another\" or only thought them is still a matter of dispute. He has subsequently denied on several occasions making the statement. One source said, \"In all probability, the defendant uttered these words only to himself and probably not even mouthing the words, but just saying them in his own mind as he squeezed the trigger that fifth time.\"\n\nThe terrified passengers ran to the other end and out of the car, leaving behind the two women who had been closest to the shooting, fallen or knocked down by the exodus, and immobilized by fear. Goetz talked to them to make sure they were not injured, then was approached by the conductor of the train. Goetz stated, \"They tried to rob me.\" The conductor asked whether Goetz was a police officer, receiving the reply, \"No.\" Some time after a brief conversation in which he refused to hand over his revolver, Goetz jumped to the tracks and ran south through the tunnel to the Chambers Street station, where he exited the system. He went home to gather some belongings, then rented a car and drove north to Bennington, Vermont, where he burned his blue jacket and dismantled the revolver, scattering the pieces in the woods north of town. He drove around New England for several days, registering at motels under various names and paying in cash.\n\nOn December 26, an anonymous hotline caller told New York City police that Goetz matched the gunman's description, owned a gun, and had been mugged previously. On December 29, Goetz called his neighbor, Myra Friedman, who told him that police had come by his apartment looking for him, and had left notes asking to be contacted as soon as possible. He gave his side of the story to Friedman, and described his psychological state at the time:\n\nGoetz returned to New York City on December 30, turned in the car, picked up some clothing and business papers at his apartment, rented another car and drove back to New England. Shortly after noon the next day, he walked into the Concord, New Hampshire, police headquarters and told the officer on duty, \"I am the person they are seeking in New York.\"\n\nOnce the officer realized that Goetz was a genuine suspect, Goetz was given a Miranda warning and he waived his right to have an attorney present. After an interview that lasted over an hour, a Concord detective asked Goetz to consent to making an audiotaped statement. Goetz agreed, and a two-hour statement was recorded. That evening, New York City detectives and an assistant district attorney arrived in Concord, and Goetz submitted to a two-hour videotaped interview. Both interviews were eventually played back for the grand juries, the criminal trial, and a civil trial years later. When the audiotape was first played in open court, Goetz was described by \"The New York Times\" as \"confused and emotional, alternately horrified by and defensive about his actions, and obsessed with justifying them.\"\n\nIn his statements, Goetz described his past mugging, in which he was injured and the only assailant arrested went unpunished. He called New York City \"lawless\" and expressed contempt for its justice system, calling it a \"joke,\" a \"sham,\" and \"a disgrace\". Goetz said that when the four men he shot surrounded him on the train, he feared being \"beaten to a pulp\" as well as being robbed. He denied any premeditation for the shooting, something that had been speculated on by the press. Asked what his intentions were when he drew his revolver, Goetz replied, \"My intention was to murder them, to hurt them, to make them suffer as much as possible.\" Later in the tape, Goetz said, \"If I had more bullets, I would have shot 'em all again and again. My problem was I ran out of bullets.\" He added, \"I was gonna, I was gonna gouge one of the guys' [Canty's] eyes out with my keys afterwards\", but said he stopped when he saw the fear in his eyes. At the criminal trial, Goetz's defense attorneys, Barry Slotnick and Mark M. Baker, argued that this and other extreme statements by Goetz were the product of emotion and an overactive imagination.\n\nGoetz was brought back to Manhattan on January 3, 1985 and arraigned on four charges of attempted murder, with bail set at $50,000. He was held in protective custody at the Rikers Island prison hospital. Refusing offers of bail assistance from the public and from his family, he posted bail with his own funds and was released on bond January 8.\n\nBecause of the loudness of the shots inside the confined space of the subway car, there were initial witness reports that suggested the gun involved was a .357 Magnum revolver. Goetz alluded to these reports in a December 2004 interview on the \"Opie and Anthony\" radio show, saying that the first shot he fired that afternoon had been unusually loud in part because it was the first shot fired by the small-frame .38 caliber revolver after the factory tests, which \"cleaned the barrel.\"\n\nAfter the incident, rumors spread that Goetz had been threatened with sharpened screwdrivers. This rumor was published as fact by some newspapers including \"The New York Times\"; however, neither Goetz nor the men made any such claim. During his subsequent statement to the police, Goetz expressed a belief that none of the young men had been armed. Paramedics and police did find a total of three screwdrivers on two of the men; when Canty testified at Goetz's criminal trial, he said they were to be used to break into video arcade change boxes and not as weapons.\n\nBernhard Goetz was born on November 7, 1947, in Kew Gardens, Queens, New York City, the son of Gertrude (Karlsberg) and Bernhard Willard Goetz, Sr. His parents were German-born immigrants who had met in the United States; Goetz's father was Lutheran; his mother, who was Jewish, converted to her husband's faith.\n\nWhile growing up, Goetz lived with his parents and three older siblings upstate, where his father ran a dairy farm and a bookbinding business. At the age of 12, he was sent to Switzerland, where he and his sister attended boarding school. Goetz returned to the United States in 1965 for college, and earned a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering and nuclear engineering from New York University. By this time the family had relocated to Orlando, Florida; Goetz joined them and worked at his father's residential development business. He was briefly married, and after his divorce moved to New York City, where he started an electronics business out of his Greenwich Village apartment.\n\n\"The Subway Vigilante,\" as Goetz was labeled by New York City media, was front-page news for months, partly due to the repressed passions the incident unleashed in New York and other cities. Public opinion tended to fall into one of three camps: Those in the first camp tended to believe Goetz's version of the incident, that he was aggressively accosted and surrounded by the four men and feared he was about to be beaten and robbed. Those in the second camp tended to believe the version told by the four men, that they were merely panhandling to get some money to play video games. A third camp believed that Goetz had indeed been threatened, but viewed the shooting as an unjustified overreaction.\n\nSupporters viewed Goetz as a hero for standing up to his attackers and defending himself in an environment where the police were increasingly viewed as ineffective in combating crime. The Guardian Angels, a volunteer patrol group of mostly black and Hispanic teenagers, collected thousands of dollars from subway riders toward a legal defense fund for Goetz. The Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), a civil rights organization, supported Goetz. Its director, Roy Innis, a member of the National Rifle Association's governing board, offered to raise defense money, saying Goetz was \"the avenger for all of us,\" and calling for a volunteer force of armed civilians to patrol the streets.\n\nThe prior criminal convictions of three of the four men (and the published accounts of such) prevented them from gaining much sympathy from many people. A special hotline set up by police to seek information was swamped by calls supporting the shooter and calling him a hero.\n\nHarvard Professor of Government James Q. Wilson explained the broad sentiment by saying, \"It may simply indicate that there are no more liberals on the crime and law-and-order issue in New York City, because they've all been mugged.\"\n\nSome believed the version of the incident as told by the four men – that they were merely panhandling with neither intimidation nor threats of violence. This view was later discredited when Darrell Cabey, who had been paralyzed by Goetz's gunshot twelve years earlier, admitted in a newspaper interview with columnist Jimmy Breslin that his friends had indeed intended to rob Goetz, who looked like \"easy bait\".\n\nSome saw the incident as racial (with Goetz being white and the four young men black), and the jury verdict as a blow to race relations. Benjamin Hooks, director of the NAACP, said \"The jury verdict was inexcusable. [...] It was proven – according to his own statements – that Goetz did the shooting and went far beyond the realm of self-defense. There was no provocation for what he did.\" Representative Floyd Flake agreed, saying, \"I think that if a black had shot four whites, the cry for the death penalty would have been almost automatic.\" Co-counsel for Cabey C. Vernon Mason, a candidate for district attorney who was later disbarred, said Goetz's actions were racist, as did the Rev. Al Sharpton.\n\nOrganized demonstrators accused Goetz of genocide. Goetz's racial language about criminal activity on 14th Street, allegedly made at a community meeting 18 months before the shooting – \"The only way we're going to clean up this street is to get rid of the spics and niggers\" – was offered as evidence of racial motivation for the shooting. Black political and religious leaders twice called for Federal civil rights investigations.\n\nAn investigation by the office of U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani determined that the impetus for the shooting had been fear, not race. In an interview with Stone Phillips of \"Dateline NBC\", Goetz later admitted that his fear was enhanced due to the fact that the alleged muggers were black.\n\nManhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau asked a grand jury to indict Goetz on four counts of attempted murder, four of assault, four of reckless endangerment, and one of criminal possession of a weapon. Because they would have to be granted immunity from prosecution, neither Goetz nor the four men he shot were called to testify. The 23 jurors heard witnesses, considered the police report of the shooting, and studied transcripts and tapes of the sometimes conflicting statements Goetz made to police in New Hampshire. The jury refused to indict Goetz on the more serious charges, voting indictments only for unlawful gun possession – one count of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, for carrying in public the loaded unlicensed gun used in the subway shooting, and two counts of possession in the fourth degree, for keeping two other unlicensed handguns in his home. The case was assigned to Judge Stephen Crane.\n\nThe shootings initially drew wide support from a public fearful and frustrated with rising crime rates and the state of the criminal justice system. A month after the grand jury's decision, a report summarizing statements Goetz made to police became public, indicating he had fired one shot at each of the four men, then checked their condition, and seeing no blood on the fourth, said \"You don't look so bad, here's another\" and fired again. The media now wrote of a change in the public mood and demanded that Goetz be tried on the attempted murder and assault charges while suggesting approaches that would allow Morgenthau to convene a new grand jury. Public figures including New York Governor Mario Cuomo raised questions based on the police summary. Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania called for a special prosecutor.\n\nStating that he had a new witness, Morgenthau obtained Judge Crane's authorization to convene a second grand jury, which heard testimony by Canty and Ramseur and indicted Goetz on charges of attempted murder, assault, reckless endangerment and weapons possession. Judge Crane later granted a motion by Goetz to dismiss the new indictments, based on alleged errors in the prosecutor's instructions to the jury regarding Goetz's defense of justification for the use of deadly force. A second factor in the dismissal was the judge's opinion that Canty and Ramseur \"strongly appeared\" to have perjured themselves, based on later public statements that they had intended to rob Goetz, and on a newspaper interview where Cabey stated that the other members of the group planned to frighten and rob Goetz because he \"looked like easy bait\". The judge allowed the weapons possession and reckless endangerment charges to stand.\n\nThe New York Court of Appeals, in \"People v. Goetz\", reversed Judge Crane's dismissal, affirming the prosecutor's charge to the grand jury that a defendant's subjective belief that he is in imminent danger does not by itself justify the use of deadly force. The court agreed with the prosecutor that an objective belief, one that would be shared by a hypothetical reasonable person, is also required. The appeals court further held that Judge Crane's opinion that the testimony of Canty and Ramseur was perjurious was speculative and inappropriate. All charges were reinstated, and the case was sent to trial.\n\nThe case was defended by Barry Slotnick and Mark M. Baker. Slotnick argued that Goetz's actions fell within the New York State's self-defense statute. Under Section 35.15, \"A person may not use deadly physical force upon another person ... unless ... He reasonably believes that such other person is committing or attempting to commit [one of certain enumerated predicate offenses, including robbery].\"\n\nGoetz was tried before a Manhattan jury of 10 whites and 2 blacks, of whom 6 had been victims of street crime. He was acquitted of the attempted murder and first-degree assault charges and convicted of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree – carrying a loaded, unlicensed weapon in a public place. He was sentenced to six months in jail, one year's psychiatric treatment, five years' probation, 200 hours community service, and a $5,000 fine. An appellate court affirmed the conviction and changed the sentence to one year in jail without probation. The order of the appellate court was affirmed because the trial court had not erred in instructing the jury that, if it found the People had proved each of the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt, it \"must\" find the defendant guilty. This was not a directed verdict. Goetz served eight months.\n\nA month after the shootings, Cabey's lawyers William Kunstler and Ron Kuby filed a civil suit against Goetz. The case was tried in 1996, over eleven years later, in the Bronx, with race as the dominant theme. During jury selection, Kuby asked the mostly non-white prospective jurors whether they had ever been discriminated against. Goetz admitted to previous use of racial language and to smoking PCP-laced marijuana during the 1980s. Kuby portrayed Goetz as a racist aggressor; Goetz's defense was that when surrounded he reacted in fear of being again robbed and beaten. Newspaper columnist Jimmy Breslin testified that in a 1985 interview, Cabey denied his involvement in an attempted robbery, but said that Canty, Allen, and Ramseur intended to rob Goetz.\n\nThe jury found that Goetz had acted recklessly and had deliberately inflicted emotional distress on Cabey. Jurors stated that Goetz shooting Cabey twice was a key factor in their decision. The jury awarded Cabey $43 million – $18 million for pain and suffering and $25 million in punitive damages.\n\nGoetz subsequently filed for bankruptcy, saying that legal expenses had left him almost penniless. A judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court ruled that the $43 million jury award could not be discharged by the bankruptcy. Asked in 2004 whether he was making payments on the judgment, Goetz responded \"I don't think I've paid a penny on that\", and referred any questions on the subject to his attorney.\n\nThe New York State legal standard for the self-defense justification use of deadly force shifted after rulings in the case. New York State jurors are now told to consider a defendant's background and to consider whether a hypothetical reasonable person would feel imperiled if that reasonable person were the defendant.\n\nAfter reaching an all-time peak in 1990, crime in New York City dropped dramatically through the rest of the 1990s. , New York City had statistically become one of the safest large cities in the U.S., with its crime rate being ranked 194th of the 210 American cities with populations over 100,000. New York City crime rates were comparable to those of the early 1960s.\n\nGoetz and others have interpreted the significance of his actions in the subway incident as a contributing factor precipitating the groundswell movement against crime in subsequent years. While that claim is impossible to verify, Goetz achieved celebrity status as a popular cultural symbol of a public disgusted with urban crime and disorder.\n\nGoetz occasionally gives media interviews about the 1984 subway incident that brought him into the public eye. In 2001 he ran unsuccessfully for mayor of New York City. In 2004, Goetz was interviewed by Nancy Grace on \"Larry King Live\", where he stated his actions were good for New York City and forced the city to address crime. In 2010 he was interviewed and did a shooting demonstration on the inaugural episode of The Biography Channel's documentary show \"Aftermath with William Shatner\".\n\nIn 2011, twenty-seven years after the incident, James Ramseur committed suicide by overdosing aged 45.\n\nThe incident inspired the 1990 \"Law & Order\" episode \"Subterranean Homeboy Blues\".\n\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52383553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52383553", "title": "ASLERD", "text": "ASLERD\n\nASLERD, the Association for Smart Learning Ecosystem and Regional Development, is an interdisciplinary, democratic, professional association open to institutions and individuals. It was founded in 2015 by academics, researchers and scholars, mostly from European Institutions, with the intention of developing the work previously carried out by the Observatory on Smart City Learning (2012-2015).\nASLERD is registered as a not-for-profit organisation under Italian law.\n\nThe mission of the association is to support learning ecosystems to develop their people centered smartness towards becoming incubators of social innovation and engines of sustainable regional development.\n\nASLERD has adopted a more people centered vision of ecosystem \"smartness\" that integrates the Maslow's hierarchy of needs and the Flow (psychology) theory: \"Ecosystems are smart when individuals that take part in the local processes achieve a high level of skills and, at the same time, are also strongly motivated and engaged by continuous and adequate challenges, provided that their primary needs are reasonably satisfied.\"\n\nUnlike the most popular models used to benchmark the performance of smart cities, in the ASLERD vision the ecosystem \"smartness\" is not determined by infrastructural or process and product indicators but emerges, bottom-up, from the opinions of all categories of players involved in the learning processes, as it has been shown in the case studies concerning European Campuses and Rome's Schools.\nIn such vision the development of people centred ecosystem \"smartness\" is considered as a continual process that needs to be supported by participatory approaches, co-design practices and technologies.\n\nAt the first ASLERD conference, held in Timişoara, (Romania) a document, \"Better Learning for a Better World - Through People Centered Smart Learning Ecosystems\", also known as The Timişoara Declaration, was signed on 19 May 2016 by representatives of some of the most prominent European Associations involved in the development of the Technology Enhanced Learning and of the Distance Education, including EADTU, EATEL, EDEN and IAFES The Timişoara Declaration recognizes:\n\nThe association supports good quality research on Smart Learning Ecosystems and their relevance for social innovation and regional development by fostering networking and supporting projects at regional, national and international level (mainly European). The actions develop mainly in three ways:\n\nASLERD supports the development of Smart Learning Ecosystems by:\n\nThe European relevance of the ASLERD vision, and previously that of the Observatory on Smart City Learning, was first recognized in 2013 with the inclusion of \"People Centered Smart Cities through Smart City Learning\" among the \"Grand challenges of the XXI century in Technology Enhanced Learning\".\nRecently ASLERD organized a session on \"\"Smart Learning Ecosystems for social innovation and territorial development\" at \"ICT2015: Innovate, Connect, Transform\" (Lisbon, Portugal) promoted by the European Commission - DG Connect. ASLERD is also committed to producing further analysis and collaboration among European Associations as outlined in the Timisoara declaration.\nSLERD 2017 has been supported by European Platform for Adult Learning (EPALE) - Erasmus+.\n\nMembers of the association, and previously of the Observatory on Smart City Learning, have been promoting ASLERD vision by organizing workshops and panels all over the world:\n\nSince 2016 the association organizes its own annual conference: SLERD. The first edition of the series, SLERD 2016 was organized by the Politehnica University of Timișoara (Romania). SLERD 2017 took take place in Aveiro, Portugal, organized by the University of Aveiro and SLERD 2018 in Aalborg, Denmark organized by the University of Aalborg. SLERD 2019 will take place in Rome, Italy, May 22-24, co-organized by the University of Rome Tor Vergata, the ITD of the National Research Council (Italy) and the Quasar University of Rome.\n\nASLERD is supporting the publication of a high-quality peer-reviewed online open access multidisciplinary journal - IxD&A - indexed among others, by SCOPUS, ESCI (Emerging Sources Citation Index - Web of Science) and DOAJ. Members of the association, and previously of the Observatory on Smart City Learning, have promoted several special issues published by the IxD&A journal IxD&A Open Archive :\n\nFrom 2017 onwards, the proceedings of the annual SLERD conference will be published by Springer Science in the series \"Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies\".\n\nASLERD is strongly involved in supporting secondary schools in improving their smartness. Since its foundation, the association has been successfully implementing actions aimed at disseminating design and evaluation literacies, fostering participatory evaluation, co-design and the increase of the social capital and experimenting with new approaches and strategies for Alternate Schemes.\n\nASLERD activities are steered by an elected board of people, which have a strong background in the ASLERD related topics. The board remains in office four years and is elected by all members of the ASLERD.\n\nThe present elected board of ASLERD is composed by (in alphabetical order):\n\n• Gabriella Dodero (ASLERD Italia)\n• Carlo Giovannella (University of Rome Tor Vergata - Dept. of SPFS) - elected President (\"office will end in December 2019\")\n• Alke Martens (University of Rostock - Institute of Computer Science) (\"office will end in December 2019\")\n• Oscar Mealha (University of Aveiro - Dep. de Comunicação e Arte) (\"office will end in December 2021\") \n• Matthias Rehm (Aalborg University - Department of Architecture, Design and Media Technology) - elected Deputy President (\"office will end in December 2019\")\n\nPast members of the board that served from September 2015 till December 2017\n\n• Antonella Nuzzaci (University of L'Aquila - Dipartimento di Scienze Umane) \n• Fernando Ramos (University of Aveiro - Dep. de Comunicação e Arte)\n\n"}
{"id": "224094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224094", "title": "Adbusters", "text": "Adbusters\n\nThe Adbusters Media Foundation is a Canadian-based not-for-profit, pro-environment organization founded in 1989 by Kalle Lasn and Bill Schmalz in Vancouver, British Columbia. Adbusters describes itself as \"a global network of artists, activists, writers, pranksters, students, educators and entrepreneurs who want to advance the new social activist movement of the information age.\"\n\nCharacterized by some as anti-capitalist or opposed to capitalism, it publishes the reader-supported, advertising-free \"Adbusters\", an activist magazine with an international circulation of 120,000 by the late 2000s devoted to challenging consumerism. Past and present contributors to the magazine include Jonathan Barnbrook, Morris Berman, Brendan Connell, Simon Critchley, David Graeber, Michael Hardt, Chris Hedges, Bill McKibben, Jim Munroe, David Orrell, Douglas Rushkoff, Matt Taibbi, Slavoj Žižek, and others.\n\nAdbusters has launched numerous international campaigns, including Buy Nothing Day, TV Turnoff Week and Occupy Wall Street, and is known for their \"subvertisements\" that spoof popular advertisements. In English, Adbusters has bi-monthly American, Canadian, Australian, UK and International editions of each issue. Adbusters's sister organizations include \"Résistance à l'Aggression Publicitaire\" and \"Casseurs de Pub\" in France, \"Adbusters Norge\" in Norway, \"Adbusters Sverige\" in Sweden and \"Culture Jammers\" in Japan.\n\nAdbusters was founded in 1989 by Kalle Lasn and Bill Schmalz, a duo of award-winning documentary filmmakers living in Vancouver. Since the early 1980s, Lasn had been making films that explored the spiritual and cultural lessons the West could learn from the Japanese experience with capitalism.\n\nIn 1988, the \"British Columbia Council of Forest Industries,\" the \"voice\" of the logging industry, was facing tremendous public pressure from a growing environmentalist movement. The logging industry fought back with a television ad campaign called \"Forests Forever.\" It was an early example of greenwashing: shots of happy children, workers and animals with a kindly, trustworthy sounding narrator who assured the public that the logging industry was protecting the forest.\n\nLasn and Shmalz, outraged by the use of the public airwaves to deliver what they felt was deceptive anti-environmentalist propaganda, responded by producing the \"Talking Rainforest\" anti-ad in which an old-growth tree explains to a sapling that \"a tree farm is not a forest.\" But the duo proved to be unable to buy airtime on the same stations that had aired the forest-industry ad. According to a former Adbusters employee, \"The CBC's reaction to the proposed television commercial created the real flash point for the Media Foundation. It seemed that Lasn and Schmaltz's commercial was too controversial to air on the CBC. An environmental message that challenged the large forestry companies was considered 'advocacy advertising' and was disallowed, even though the 'informational' messages that glorified clearcutting were OK.\"\n\nThe foundation was born out of their belief that citizens do not have the same access to the information flows as corporations. One of the foundation's key campaigns continues to be the Media Carta, a \"movement to enshrine The Right to Communicate in the constitutions of all free nations, and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\"\n\nThe foundation notes that concern over the flow of information goes beyond the desire to protect democratic transparency, freedom of speech or the public's access to the airwaves. Although it supports these causes, the foundation instead situates the battle of the mind at the center of its political agenda. Fighting to counter pro-consumerist advertising is done not as a means to an end, but as the end in itself. This shift in emphasis is a crucial element of mental environmentalism.\n\nThe subtitle of \"Adbusters\" magazine is \"The Journal of the Mental Environment.\"\n\nIn a 1996 interview, Kalle Lasn explained the foundation's goal:\nWhat we're trying to do is pioneer a new form of social activism using all the power of the mass media to sell ideas, rather than products. We're motivated by a kind of 'greenthink' that comes from the environmental movement and isn't mired in the old ideology of the left and right. Instead, we take the environmental ethic into the mental ethic, trying to clean up the toxic areas of our minds.\n\nYou can't recycle and be a good environmental citizen, then watch four hours of television and get consumption messages pumped at you.\n\nAdbusters describes itself as anti-advertising: it blames advertising for playing a central role in creating and maintaining consumer culture. This argument is based on the belief that the advertising industry goes to great effort and expense to associate desire and identity with commodities. Adbusters believes that advertising has unjustly \"colonized\" public, discursive and psychic spaces, by appearing in movies, sports and even schools, so as to permeate modern culture. Adbusters's stated goals include combating the negative effects of advertising and empowering its readers to regain control of culture, encouraging them to ask \"Are we consumers and citizens?\"\n\nSince \"Adbusters\" concludes that advertising conditions people to look to external sources, to define their own personal identities, the magazine advocates a \"natural and authentic self apart from the consumer society\". The magazine aims to provoke anti-consumerist feelings. By juxtaposing text and images, the magazine attempts to create a means of raising awareness and getting its message out to people that is both aesthetically pleasing and entertaining.\n\nActivism also takes many other forms such as corporate boycotts and ‘art as protest', often incorporating humor. This includes billboard modifications, google bombing, flash mobs and fake parking tickets for SUVs. A popular example of cultural jamming is the distortion of Tiger Woods' smile into the form of the Nike swoosh, calling viewers to question how they view Woods' persona as a product. Adbusters calls it \"trickle up\" activism, and encourages its readers to do these activities by honoring culture jamming work in the magazine. In the September/October 2001 \"Graphic Anarchy\" issue, Adbusters were culture jammed themselves in a manner of speaking: they hailed the work of Swiss graphic designer Ernst Bettler as \"one of the greatest design interventions on record\", unaware that Bettler's story was an elaborate hoax.\n\n\"Media Carta\" is a charter challenging the corporate control of the public airwaves and means of communication. The goal is to \"make the public airwaves truly public, and not just a corporate domain.\" Over 30,000 people have signed the document voicing their desire to reclaim the public space.\nOn 13 September 2004, Adbusters filed a lawsuit against six major Canadian television broadcasters (including CanWest Global, Bell Globemedia, CHUM Ltd., and the CBC) for refusing to air Adbusters videos in the television commercial spots that Adbusters attempted to purchase. Most broadcasters refused the commercials, fearing the ads would upset other advertisers as well as violate business principles by \"contaminating the purity of media environments designed exclusively for communicating commercial messages\". The lawsuit claims that Adbusters' freedom of expression was unjustly limited by the refusals. Adbusters believes the public deserves a right to be presented with viewpoints that differ from the standard. Under Section 3 of the Broadcasting Act, television is a public space allowing ordinary citizens to possess the same rights as advertising agencies and corporations to purchase 30 seconds of airtime from major broadcasters. There has been talk that if Adbusters wins in Canadian court, they will file similar lawsuits against major U.S. broadcasters that also refused the advertisements. CNN is the only network that has allowed several of the foundation's commercials to run.\n\nOn 3 April 2009, the British Columbia Court of Appeal unanimously overturned a BC Supreme Court ruling that had dismissed the case in February 2008. The court granted Adbusters the ability to sue the Canadian Broadcasting Company and CanWest Global, the corporations that originally refused to air the anti-car ad \"Autosaurus\". The ruling represents a victory for Adbusters, but it is the first step of their intended goal, essentially opening the door for future legal action against the media conglomerates. Kalle Lasn declared the ruling a success and said, \"After twenty years of legal struggle, the courts have finally given us permission to take on the media corporations and hold them up to public scrutiny.\"\n\nIn April 2009, the foundation transformed TV Turnoff Week into Digital Detox Week, encouraging citizens to spend seven days \"unplugged\" without any of electronic devices such as video-game systems and computers.\n\nThe \"One Flag\" competition encouraged readers to create a flag that symbolized \"global citizenship\", without using language or commonly known symbols.\n\nCulture jamming is the primary means through which Adbusters challenges consumerism. The magazine was described by Joseph Heath and Andrew Potter in their book \"The Rebel Sell\" as \"the flagship publication of the culture jamming movement.\" Culture jamming is heavily influenced by the Situationist International and the tactic of \"détournement\". The goal is to interrupt the normal consumerist experience in order to reveal the underlying ideology of an advertisement, media message, or consumer artifact. Adbusters believe large corporations control mainstream media and the flow of information, and culture jamming aims to challenge this as a form of protest. The term \"jam\" contains more than one meaning, including improvising, by re-situating an image or idea already in existence, and interrupting, by attempting to stop the workings of a machine.\n\nAs already noted, the foundation's approach to culture jamming has its roots in the activities of the situationists and in particular their concept of \"détournement\". This involves the \"turning around\" of received messages so that they communicate meanings at variance with their original intention. Situationists argue that consumerism creates \"a limitless artificiality\", blurring the lines of reality and detracting from the essence of human experience. In the \"culture jamming\" context, \"détournement\" means taking symbols, logos and slogans that are considered to be the vehicles upon which the \"dominant discourse\" of \"late capitalism\" is communicated and changing them – frequently in significant but minor ways – to subvert the \"monologue of the ruling order\" [Debord].\n\nThe foundation's activism links grassroots efforts with environmental and social concerns, hoping followers will \"reconstruct [their] self through nonconsumption strategies.\" The foundation is particularly well known for its culture jamming campaigns, and the magazine often features photographs of politically motivated billboard or advertisement vandalism sent in by readers. The campaigns attempt to remove people from the \"isolated reality of consumer comforts\".\n\nIn 2004, the foundation began selling vegan, indy shoes. The name and logo are \"open-source\"; in other words, unencumbered by private trademarks. Attached to each pair was a \"Rethink the Cool\" leaflet, inviting wearers to join a movement, and two spots – one for drawing their own logos and another on the toe for \"kicking corporate ass.\"\n\nThere are three versions of the Blackspot Sneaker. The V1 is designed to resemble the Nike-owned Converse Chuck Taylor All-Stars (Nike bought Converse in 2003). There is also a V1 in \"fiery red.\"\n\nThe V2 is designed by Canadian shoe designer John Fluevog. It is made from organic hemp and recycled car tires.\n\nAfter an extensive search for anti-sweatshop manufacturers around the world, Adbusters found a small union shop in Portugal. The sale of more than twenty-five thousand pairs through an alternative distribution network is an example of Western consumer activism marketing.\n\nAdbusters describes its goals vis-à-vis Blackspot as follows:\n\nHeath and Potter's \"The Rebel Sell\", which is critical of Adbusters, claimed that the blackspot shoe's existence proves that \"no rational person could possibly believe that there is any tension between 'mainstream' and 'alternative' culture.\"\n\nIn the June 2008 cover story of \"BusinessWeek Small Business Magazine\", the Blackspot campaign was among three profiled in a piece focusing on \"antipreneurs.\" Two advertising executives were asked to review the campaign for the article's \"Ask the Experts\" sidebar. Brian Martin of \"Brand Connections\" and Dave Weaver of TM Advertising both gave the campaign favorable reviews.\n\nMartin noted that Blackspot was effectively telling consumers, \"We know we are marketing to you, and you are as good as we are at this, and your opinion matters,\" while Weaver stated that \"This is not a call to sales of the shoe so much as it is a call to participate in the community of Adbusters by buying the shoe.\"\n\nIn mid-2011, Adbusters Foundation proposed a peaceful occupation of Wall Street to protest corporate influence on democracy, a growing disparity in wealth, and the absence of legal repercussions behind the recent global financial crisis. They sought to combine the symbolic location of the 2011 protests in Tahrir Square with the consensus decision making of the 2011 Spanish protests. Adbusters' senior editor Micah White said they had suggested the protest via their email list and it \"was spontaneously taken up by all the people of the world.\" Adbusters' website said that from their \"one simple demand—a presidential commission to separate money from politics\" they would \"start setting the agenda for a new America.\" They promoted the protest with a poster featuring a dancer atop Wall Street's iconic Charging Bull. On 13 July 2011 it was the staff at the magazine that created the #OCCUPYWALLSTREET hashtag on Twitter.\n\nWhile the movement was started by Adbusters, the group does not control the movement, and it has since grown worldwide.\n\nThe foundation has been criticized for having a style and form that are too similar to the media and commercial product that adbusters attack, that its high gloss design makes the magazine too expensive, and that a style over substance approach is used to mask sub-par content.\n\nHeath and Potter posit that the more alternative or subversive the foundation feels, the more appealing the Blackspot sneaker will become to the mainstream market. They believe consumers seek exclusivity and social distinction and have argued that the mainstream market seeks the very same brand of individuality that the foundation promotes; thus they see the foundation as promoting capitalist values.\n\nThe Blackspot Shoes campaign has stirred heated debate, as Adbusters admits to using the same marketing technique which it denounces other companies for using by originally purchasing much advertising space for the shoe.\n\nAdbusters launched a legal challenge in 1995. A second in 2004 was against CBC, CTV, CanWest and CHUM, for refusing to air anti-consumerism commercials, therefore infringing on the staff's freedom of speech. In one case, a CHUM representative is quoted as saying the ads \"were so blatantly against television and that is our entire core business. You know we can't be selling our airtime and then telling people to turn their TVs off.\"\n\nIn March 2004, \"Adbusters\" was accused of antisemitism after running an article titled \"Why won't anyone say they are Jewish?\" The article compiled a list of neoconservative supporters within the Bush Administration and marked the names of those it perceived as Jewish with a black dot. It questioned why, given Israel's role, the political implications of this Jewish neoconservative influence on U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East were not a subject of debate.\n\nIn October 2010, Shopper's Drug Mart pulled \"Adbusters\" off of its shelves after a photo montage comparing the Gaza Strip to the Warsaw ghetto was featured in an article critiquing Israel's embargo of Gaza. The Canadian Jewish Congress rallied to have the magazine blacklisted from bookstores, accusing \"Adbusters\" of trivializing the Holocaust and of antisemitism. In response \"Adbusters\" argued that the charge of antisemitism was being used to silence what it considered legitimate criticism of Israeli policies.\n\nSome critics claim that culture jamming does little to incite real difference. Others declare the movement an easy way for upper- and middle-class citizens to feel empowered by engaging in activism that bears no personal cost, such as the campaign \"Buy Nothing Day\". These critics feel a need for \"resistance against the causes of capitalist exploitation, not its symptoms\".\n\nIn 1999, Adbusters won the award for National Magazine of the Year in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2760967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2760967", "title": "Anti-Bullying Week", "text": "Anti-Bullying Week\n\nAnti-Bullying Week is an annual UK event held in the third week in November which aims to raise awareness of bullying of children and young people, in schools and elsewhere, and to highlight ways of preventing and responding to it. Anti-Bullying Week is organised by the Anti-Bullying Alliance (ABA) in England, which is made up of about 140 member organizations. In Northern Ireland the event is coordinated by the Northern Ireland Anti-Bullying Forum (NIABF), made up of 25 member organisations from the voluntary and statutory sectors.\n\nAnti-Bullying Weeks in England have been:\n\nIn Northern Ireland the annual campaign is run during the same week, but under a different theme. Anti-Bullying Week campaigns in Northern Ireland are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52548179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52548179", "title": "Arab identity", "text": "Arab identity\n\nArab identity is the objective or subjective state of perceiving oneself as an Arab and as relating to being Arab. It relies on a common culture, a traditional lineage, the common land in history, shared experiences including underlying conflicts and confrontations. These commonalities are regional and tribal. Arab identity is defined independently of religious identity, and pre-dates the spread of Islam, with historically attested Arab Christian tribes and Arab Jewish tribes. Arabs are a diverse group in terms of religious affiliations and practices. Most Arabs are Muslim, with a minority adhering to other faiths, largely Christianity, but also Druze and Baha'i.\n\nArab identity can also be seen through a lens of local or regional identity. Throughout Arab history, there have been three major national trends in the Arab world. Pan-Arabism rejects states' existing sovereignty as artificial creations and calls for full Arab unity.\n\nThe Arabs are first mentioned in the mid-ninth century BCE as a people living in eastern and southern Syria, and the north of the Arabian Peninsula. \n\nThe Arabs appear to have been under the vassalage of the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–605 BCE), and then the succeeding Neo-Babylonian Empire (605–539 BCE), Persian Achaemenid Empire (539–332 BCE), Greek Macedonian/Seleucid Empire and Parthian Empire. Arab tribes, most notably the Ghassanids and Lakhmids begin to appear in the south Syrian deserts and southern Jordan from the mid 3rd century CE onwards, during the mid to later stages of the Roman Empire and Sasanian Empire.\n\nThe relation of ' and ' is complicated further by the notion of \"lost Arabs\" \"\" mentioned in the Qur'an as punished for their disbelief. All contemporary Arabs were considered as descended from two ancestors, Qahtan and Adnan. During the early Muslim conquests of the 7th and 8th centuries, the Arabs forged the Rashidun and then Umayyad Caliphate, and later the Abbasid Caliphate, whose borders touched southern France in the west, China in the east, Anatolia in the north, and the Sudan in the south. This was one of the largest land empires in history.\n\nArab nationalism is a nationalist ideology that asserts the Arabs are a nation and promotes the unity of Arab people. In its contemporary conception, it is the belief that the Arab people are a people united by language, culture, ethnicity, history, geography and interests, and that one Arab state will assemble the Arabs within its borders from the ocean to the Gulf. The Arabs believed that they were an old nation. It showed Arab pride in Arabic poetry. In the era of Islam, nationalism was manifested by the feeling of the Arabs as a distinct nation within Islam. In the modern era, this idea was embodied by ideologies such as Nasserism and Ba'athism, which were the most common in the Arab world, especially in the mid-twentieth century until the end of the seventies, characterized by the establishment of the United Arab Republic between Egypt and Syria and witnessed many other attempts of unity. Arab nationalism gained a new popular range as a result of the Arab Spring and the emergence of an Arab popular trend calling for an Arab unity led by the people, not the authoritarian regimes that installed the wave of nationalism without accomplishing anything in this direction.\n\nArab socialism is a political ideology based on the confusion between Arab nationalism and socialism. Arab socialism differs from the socialist ideas prevalent in the Arab world. For many, including Michel Aflaq, Arab socialism was a natural step towards the consolidation of Arab unity and freedoms, since the socialist system of ownership and development alone can overcome the remnants of colonialism in the Arab world.\n\nPan-Arabism is an ideology espousing the unification of the countries of North Africa and West Asia from the Atlantic Ocean to the Arabian Sea, referred to as the Arab world. The idea is based on the integration of some or all of the Arab countries into a single political and economic framework that removes the borders between the Arab states and establishes a strong economic, human and military state. Arab unity is an idea that the Arab nationalists believe as a solution to the backwardness, occupation and oppression that the Arab citizen lives in all the countries of this country extending from the ocean to the Gulf.\n\nThe Arab League, formally the League of Arab States is a regional organization of Arab countries in and around North Africa, the Horn of Africa and Arabia. It was formed in Cairo on 22 March 1945 with six members: Kingdom of Egypt, Kingdom of Iraq, Transjordan (renamed Jordan in 1949), Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and Syria. Its charter provides for coordination among member states in economic matters, including trade relations, communications, cultural relations, nationalities, travel documents and permits, social relations and health.\n\nA member of a Semitic people, inhabiting much of the Middle East and North Africa. The ties that bind Arabs are ethnic, linguistic, cultural, historical, identical, nationalist, geographical and political. They have their own customs, language, architecture, art, literature, music, dance, media, cuisine, dress, society, sports and mythology.\n\nAccording to Arab-Islamic-Jewish traditions, Ishmael was father of the Arabs, to be the ancestor of the Ishmaelites they are the descendants of Ishmael, the elder son of Abraham and the descendants of the 12 sons/princes of Ishmael.\n\nThe Arab world, formally the \"Arab homeland\", also known as the \"Arab nation\" or the \"Arab states\", currently consists of the 22 Arab countries: Algeria, Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, occupy an area stretching from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Arabian Sea in the east, and from the Mediterranean Sea in the north to the Horn of Africa and the Indian Ocean in the southeast. Arab world has a combined population of around 422 million inhabitants.\n\nArab identity can be described as consisting of many interconnected parts:\n\nArabs belong to the Semitic branch of the Caucasian race, mostly Mediterranean race. The Arabid race is a term for a morphological subtype of the Caucasoid race, as used in physical anthropology. Some recent genetic studies have found (by analysis of the DNA of Semitic-speaking peoples), Y-chromosomal links between modern Semitic-speaking peoples of the Middle East like Arabs, Hebrews, Mandaeans, Samaritans, and Assyrians.\n\nMedieval Arab genealogists divided Arabs into three groups:\n\nThe Arabs refuse to classify and called them as \"white\" they identify themselves as \"Arab\". When it comes to Arabs it seems this important point is often lost, as see more and more attempts to position them as “white.”\n\nEthnic identity is another factor in Arab identity, who identify, linguistically, identically, culturally, societally, ancestrally, historically, politically, nationally and genealogically as \"Arab\".\n\nIn the modern era, it is defined who is an Arab based on these criteria:\n\nNational identity is one's identity or sense of belonging to one state or to one nation. It is the sense of a nation as a cohesive whole, as represented by distinctive traditions, culture, language and politics. Arab nationalism is a nationalist ideology celebrating the glories of Arab civilization, the language and literature of the Arabs, calling for rejuvenation and political union in the Arab world. The premise of Arab nationalism is the need for an ethnic, political, cultural and historical unity among the Arab peoples of the Arab countries. The main objective of Arab nationalism was to achieve the independence of Western influence of all Arab countries. Arab political strategies with the nation in order to determine the struggle of the Arab nation with the state system (nation-state) and the struggle of the Arab nation for unity. The concepts of new nationalism and old nationalism are used in analysis to expose the conflict between nationalism, national ethnic nationalism, and new national political nationalism. These two aspects of national conflicts highlight the crisis known as the Arab Spring, which affects the Arab world today. Suppressing the political struggle to assert the identity of the new civil state is said to clash with the original ethnic identity.\n\nUntil about the fourth century, almost all Arabs practised polytheistic religions. Although significant Jewish and Christian minorities developed, polytheism remained the dominant belief system in pre-Islamic, most Arabs followed a pagan religion with a number of deities, including Hubal, Wadd, Allāt, Manat, and Uzza. A few individuals, the \"hanifs\", had apparently rejected polytheism in favor of monotheism unaffiliated with any particular religion. Different theories have been proposed regarding the role of Allah in Meccan religion. Today the majority of Arabs are Muslims, identities are often seen as inseparable. The \"Verse of brotherhood\" is the tenth verse of the Quranic chapter \"Al-Hujurat\", is about brotherhood of believers with each other. \nHowever, there were divergent currents in Arabism - one religious and secular one - throughout Arab history. After the collapse of the Ottoman Islamic caliphate in the 20th century, Arab nationalism emerged on the religious front. These two trends have continued to overcome each other to this day. Now, religious fundamentalism offers an alternative to secular nationalism. There are also different religious denominations within Islam and are often valuable to religion as a whole, leading to sectarian conflict and conflict. In fact, the social and psychological distances between Sunni and Shia Muslims may be greater than the perceived distance between different religions. Because of this, Islam can be seen both as a unification and as a force of division in Arab identity.\n\nArab cultural identity is characterized by complete uniformity. Arab cultural space are historically so tightly interwoven. Arab cultural identity has been assessed through four measures that measure the basic characteristics of Arab culture: religiosity, grouping, belief in gender hierarchy and attitudes toward sexual behavior. The results indicate the predominance of the professional strategies that Arab social workers have learned in their training in social work, while indicating the willingness of social workers to benefit from established strategies in their culture and society, either separately or in combination with the professional. There are different aspects of Arab identity, whether ethnic, religious, national, linguistic or cultural - of different fields and analytical angles.\n\nFor some Arabs, beyond language, race, religion, tribe or region. Arabic; hence, can be considered as a common factor among all Arabs. Since the Arabic language also exceeds the country's border, the Arabic language helps to create a sense of Arab nationalism. According to the Iraqi world exclusive Cece, \"it must be people who speak one language one heart and one soul, so should form one nation and thus one country.\" There are two sides to the coin, argumentative. While the Arabic language as one language can be a unifying factor, the language is often not unique at all. Accents vary from region to region, there are wide differences between written and spoken versions, many countries host bilingual citizens, many Arabs are illiterate. This leads us to examine other identifying aspects of Arabic identity. Arabic, a Semitic language from the Afroasiatic language family. Modern Standard Arabic serves as the standardized and literary variety of Arabic used in writing, as well as in most formal speech, although it is not used in daily speech by the overwhelming majority of Arabs. Most Arabs who are functional in Modern Standard Arabic acquire it through education and use it solely for writing and formal settings.\n\nArab political identity characterized by restraint, tolerance, compassion, hospitality, generosity, tolerance restraint, proper conduct, equality and unanimity. Arab countries to redefine politics are linked to the fact that the political culture behind the Arabs has been overrun for centuries by successive political. The vast majority of the citizens of the Arab countries view themselves and are seen by outsiders as \"Arabs\". Their sense of the Arab nation is based on their common denominators: language, culture, ethnicity, social and political experiences, economic interests and the collective memory of their place and role in history.\n\nThe relative importance of these factors is estimated differently by different groups and frequently disputed. Some combine aspects of each definition, as done by Palestinian Habib Hassan Touma: \n\nThe Arab League, a regional organization of countries intended to encompass the Arab world, defines an Arab as:\n"}
{"id": "28740978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28740978", "title": "Arbeiderbevegelsens historie i Norge", "text": "Arbeiderbevegelsens historie i Norge\n\nArbeiderbevegelsens historie i Norge () is a six-volume work about the labour movement history of Norway. It was released between 1985 and 1990 by Tiden Norsk Forlag.\n\nIt was not the first work about the history of the Norwegian labour movement. Einhart Lorenz released the two-volume work \"Arbeiderbevegelsens historie. En innføring. Norsk sosialisme i internasjonalt perspektiv\" in 1972 and 1974.\n\nThis time, a large work was planned because of the 100th anniversary of the Norwegian Labour Party in 1987. As such, it is a party history combined with the history of other important parties as well as the trade union movement. Several of the editors and writers engaged in the project were in fact members of the Labour Party, or labour movement \"sympathizers\". The editors of the project were Edvard Bull, Jr., Arne Kokkvoll and Jakob Sverdrup.\n\nThe first volume, \"Arbeiderklassen blir til. 1850–1900\" was written by Edvard Bull. The second volume, \"På klassekampens grunn. 1900–1920\" was written by Øyvind Bjørnson. The third volume, \"Gjennom kriser til makt. 1920–1935\" was written by Per Maurseth. The fourth volume, \"Klassen og nasjonen. 1935–1946\" was written by Tore Pryser. The fifthg volume, \"Storhetstid. 1945–1965\" was written by Trond Bergh. The sixth volume, \"Nye utfordringer. 1965–1990\" was written by Jostein Nyhamar. The volumes were published unevenly, with the first volume released in 1985, the third and fifth in 1987, the fourth in 1988, and the second and sixth in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "977472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977472", "title": "Black Dragon Society", "text": "Black Dragon Society\n\nThe , or Amur River Society, was a prominent paramilitary, ultranationalist right-wing group in Japan.\n\nThe \"Kokuryūkai\" was founded in 1901 by Uchida Ryohei as a successor to his mentor Mitsuru Tōyama's \"Gen'yōsha\". Its name is derived from the translation of the Amur River, which is called Heilongjiang or \"Black Dragon River\" in Chinese (黑龍江), read as \"Kokuryū-kō\" in Japanese. Its public goal was to support efforts to keep the Russian Empire north of the Amur River and out of east Asia.\n\nThe \"Kokuryūkai\" initially made strenuous efforts to distance itself from the criminal elements of its predecessor, the \"Gen'yōsha\". As a result, its membership included Cabinet Ministers and high-ranking military officers as well as professional secret agents. However, as time passed, it found the use of criminal activities to be a convenient means to an end for many of its operations.\n\nThe Society published a journal, and operated an espionage training school, from which it dispatched agents to gather intelligence on Russian activities in Russia, Manchuria, Korea and China. It also pressured Japanese politicians to adopt a strong foreign policy. The \"Kokuryūkai\" also supported Pan-Asianism, and lent financial support to revolutionaries such as Sun Yat-sen, and Emilio Aguinaldo.\n\nDuring the Russo-Japanese War, annexation of Korea and Siberian Intervention, the Imperial Japanese Army made use of the \"Kokuryūkai\" network for espionage, sabotage and assassination. They organized Manchurian guerrillas against the Russians from the Chinese warlords and bandit chieftains in the region, the most important being Marshal Chang Tso-lin. The Black Dragons waged a very successful psychological warfare campaign in conjunction with the Japanese military, spreading disinformation and propaganda throughout the region. They also acted as interpreters for the Japanese army.\n\nThe \"Kokuryūkai\" assisted the Japanese spy, Colonel Motojiro Akashi. Akashi, who was not directly a member of the Black Dragons, ran successful operations in China, Manchuria, Siberia and established contacts throughout the Muslim world. These contacts in Central Asia were maintained through World War II. The Black Dragons also formed close contact and even alliances with Buddhist sects throughout Asia.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, the \"Kokuryūkai\" evolved into more of a mainstream political organization, and publicly attacked liberal and leftist thought. Although it never had more than several dozen members at any one time during this period, the close ties of its membership to leading members of the government, military and powerful business leaders gave it a power and influence far greater than most other ultranationalist groups.\n\nInitially directed only against Russia, in the 1930s, the \"Kokuryūkai\" expanded its activities around the world, and stationed agents in such diverse places as Ethiopia, Turkey, Morocco, throughout southeast Asia and South America, as well as Europe and the United States.\n\nThe \"Kokuryūkai\" was officially disbanded by order of the American Occupation authorities in 1946. According to Brian Daizen Victoria's book, \"Zen War Stories\", the Black Dragon Society was reconstituted in 1961 as the Black Dragon Club (\"Kokuryū-Kurabu\".) The Club never had more than 150 members to succeed in the goals of the former Black Dragon Society.\n\nThe organization was an influence on seditious black nationalists, aiming to foment racial unrest. African-Americans liked the symbolism of the black dragon fighting against the American eagle and British lion.\n\nAs part of that effort, they sent their agent, Satokata Takahashi, to promote Pan-Asianism and claim Japan would treat them as equals. He would become a patron of the Elijah Muhammed and Nation of Islam, as well as the Pacific Movement of the Eastern World.\n\nMittie Maude Lena Gordon's Peace Movement of Ethiopia claimed to be affiliated with the \"Kokuryūkai\".\n\nOn March 27, 1942, FBI agents arrested members of the Black Dragon Society in the San Joaquin Valley, California.\n\nIn the Manzanar Internment Camp a small group of pro-Imperial Japanese flew Black Dragon flags and intimidated other Japanese inmates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7919699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7919699", "title": "Combat Organization of the Polish Socialist Party", "text": "Combat Organization of the Polish Socialist Party\n\nThe Combat Organization of the Polish Socialist Party (, abbreviated \"OBPPS\"), also translated as Fighting Organization of the Polish Socialist Party; also known as \"bojówki\" (paramilitary units); \"Organizacja Spiskowo-Bojowa PPS\" (\"PPS\" Underground-Combat Organization); \"Koła Bojowe Samoobrony Robotniczej\" (Workers' Self-Defense Combat Circles) and \"Koła Techniczno-Bojowe\" (Combat-Technical Circles), was an illegal Polish guerrilla organization founded in 1904 by Józef Piłsudski.\n\nIts operations reached their zenith about 1904–1908, when it numbered over 2,000 members, including over 700 paramilitary personnel, and carried out over 2,500 operations. The organization had over 5,000 members at the height of its power. Afterwards it declined and was dissolved in 1911. Its goal was to create an armed resistance movement against the Imperial Russian authorities in partitioned Poland. Its most notable operations included the Bloody Wednesday of 15 August 1906; the failed assassination attempt against the Governor-General of Warsaw, Georgi Skalon, 18 August 1906; and Bezdany raid, a major train robbery, 26 September 1908.\n\nThe first action of the Organizacja Bojowa took place soon after the PPS started to organize an increasing number of demonstrations (mostly in Warsaw). On October 28, 1904, Russian Cossack cavalry trampled the participants in one of the demonstrations; in revenge, on November 13 the 'Bojówki' opened fire on the Russian police and military during a new demonstration. First concentrating on fighting the spies and informants, in March 1905 'Bojówki' started using bombs to assassinate selected members of Russian police, both regular and secret (Okhrana) responsible for repression of Poles in the partitioned Poland. 'Bojówki' also assaulted Russian transports of money leaving the Polish territories. Among the most famous of these was the raid at Bezdany near Vilna in 1908, led by Piłsudski himself. The loot from that single raid (200,812 rubles–or approximately $100,000) was a virtual fortune in contemporary Eastern Europe and equaled the amount 'Bojówki' had looted in the two previous years.\n\nIn 1906 alone, the 800-strong \"Bojówki\", operating in five-man units in Congress Poland, killed 336 Russian officials; the number of casualties declined in the coming years; while the number of its members increased (to around 2,000 in 1908) but started declining significantly after 1908; in 1910 it numbered only 77 members.\n\nOrganizacja Bojowa as a military arm of the PPS was viewed unfavourably by the other Polish political force, the right-wing \"endecja\". During the \"June Days\", as the Łódź uprising in 1905 came to be known in Poland, armed clashes broke out between gunmen loyal to Piłsudski's PPS and those loyal to Roman Dmowski's National Democratic Party (\"Endeks\"). It was also not unanimously supported by all members of the PPS; in November 1906, a faction of the party split off in protest of Piłsudski's leadership. The Piłsudski's faction was known as \"Old Faction\" or the \"Revolution Faction\" (Starzy, Frakcja Rewolucyjna), while their opponents were known as the \"Young Faction\", \"Moderate Faction\" or the \"Left Wing\" (Młodzi, \"Frakcja Umiarkowana\", Lewica). The Youngs sympathized with the Social Democracy of the Kingdom of Poland and Lithuania and believed that the priority should be cooperation with Russian revolutionaries in toppling the tsardom and creating a socialist utopia first, and negotiation for independence would be easier later. Piłsudski with his supporters from the revolutionary faction of the PPS, continued to plan a revolution against tsarist Russia. However, since then Organizacja Bojowa (temporarily known as Organizacja Bojowa PPS – Frakcja Rewolucyjna) – and Piłsudski – acted increasingly independent from the PPS, whose revolutionary faction would try to organize a more controlled organization called 'Milicja Robotnicza'. Nonetheless the Young faction would soon disappear and Piłsudski's faction would again take the leading role within the PPS.\n\nPiłsudski anticipated a coming European war and the need to organize the officers of a future Polish army that could help win Poland's independence from the three empires that had partitioned her out of political existence in the late 18th century. One of the main goals of Organizacja Bojowa, other than providing funds for continuing activity and demonstrating the strength of Poland's underground, was to prepare a future cadre for the Polish Army. In 1906, Piłsudski, with the connivance and support of the Austrian authorities, founded a military school in Kraków for the training of \"Bojówki\".\n\nIn 1908, Piłsudski transformed the \"Combat Teams\" to \"Związek Walki Czynnej\" (Association for Active Struggle), headed by three of his associates, Władysław Sikorski, Marian Kukiel, and Kazimierz Sosnkowski. ZWC was not the last paramilitary organization created by Piłsudski, who would go on to create the Związek Strzelecki (Riflemen's Association) and the Polish Military Organization before his final goal, Polish independence, was achieved in 1918.\n\nIts operations reached their zenith about 1904–1908, when it numbered over 2,000 members, including over 700 paramilitary personnel, and carried out over 2,500 operations. According to Leon Wasilewski, the organization had over 5,000 members at the height of its power. Afterwards it declined and was dissolved in 1911. Its goal was to create an armed resistance movement against the Imperial Russian authorities in partitioned Poland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1434220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1434220", "title": "Command hierarchy", "text": "Command hierarchy\n\nA command hierarchy is a group of people who carry out orders based on others authority within the group. It can be viewed as part of a power structure, in which it is usually seen as the most vulnerable and also the most powerful part. \n\nIn a military context, the chain of command is the line of authority and responsibility along which orders are passed within a military unit and between different units. Orders are transmitted down the chain of command, from a higher-ranked soldier, such as a commissioned officer, to lower-ranked personnel who either execute the order personally or transmit it down the chain as appropriate, until it is received by those expected to execute it. \"Command is exercised by virtue of office and the special assignment of members of the Armed Forces holding military rank who are eligible to exercise command.\" \n\nIn general, military personnel give orders only to those directly below them in the chain of command and receive orders only from those directly above them. A service member who has difficulty executing a duty or order and appeals for relief directly to an officer above his immediate commander in the chain of command is likely to be disciplined for not observing the chain of command. Similarly, an officer is usually expected to give orders only to his or her direct subordinate, even if it is just to pass an order down to another service member lower in the chain of command than said subordinate.\n\nThe concept of chain of command also implies that higher rank alone does not entitle a higher-ranking service member to give commands to anyone of lower rank. For example, an officer of unit \"A\" does not directly command lower-ranking members of unit \"B\", and is generally expected to approach an officer of unit \"B\" if he requires action by members of that unit. The chain of command means that individual members take orders from only one superior and only give orders to a defined group of people immediately below them.\n\nIf an officer of unit \"A\" does give orders directly to a lower-ranked member of unit \"B\", it would be considered highly unusual (a faux pas, or extraordinary circumstances, such as a lack of time or inability to confer with the officer in command of unit \"B\") as officer \"A\" would be seen as subverting the authority of the officer of unit \"B\". Depending on the situation or the standard procedure of the military organization, the lower-ranked member being ordered may choose to carry out the order anyway, or advise that it has to be cleared with his or her own chain of command first, which in this example would be with officer \"B\". Refusal to carry out an order is almost always considered insubordination, the only exception usually allowed is if the order itself is illegal (i.e., the person carrying out the order would be committing an illegal act). (See Superior Orders.)\n\nIn addition, within combat units, line officers are in the chain of command, but officers in specialist fields (such as medical, dental, legal, supply, and chaplain) are not, except within their own specialty. For example, a medical officer in an infantry battalion would be responsible for the combat medics in that unit but would not be eligible to command the battalion or any of its subordinate units.\n\nThe term is also used in a civilian management context describing comparable hierarchical structures of authority.\n\nIn sociology command hierarchy is seen as the most visible element of a \"power network\", . In this model, social capital is viewed as being mobilized in response to orders that move through the hierarchy leading to the phrase \"command and control\".\n\nRegardless of the degree of control or results achieved, and regardless of how the hierarchy is justified and rationalized, certain aspects of a command hierarchy tend to be similar:\n\nHowever, people of such compatible views often have similar systemic biases because they are from the same culture. Such problems as groupthink or willingness to accept one standard of evidence internal to the group, but require drastically higher evidence from outside, are common.\n\nIn part to address these problems, much modern management science has focused on reducing reliance on command hierarchy especially for information flow, since the cost of communications is now low, and the cost of management mistakes is higher—especially under globalization—than at any point in the past. It is also easier to replace managers, so they have a personal interest in more distributed responsibility and perhaps more consensus decision making.\n\nUbiquitous command and control posits for military organizations, a generalisation from hierarchies to networks which allows for the use of hierarchies when they are appropriate, and non-hierarchical networks when they are inappropriate. This includes the notion of \"mission agreement\", to support \"edge in\" as well as \"top-down\" flow of intent.\n\n"}
{"id": "22397121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22397121", "title": "Denaturation (food)", "text": "Denaturation (food)\n\nThe word denature is used in two food-related contexts.\n\nWhen preparing proteins for consumption, there are three ways of denaturing the proteins: heating, acids, and mechanical force (e.g. whisking eggs). All three methods have the same result: hydrogen bonds in the proteins are broken allowing the proteins to \"unwind\". When the proteins are unwound, they have been altered from their natural state and are considered denatured. Once denatured, the proteins are free to interact with other chemicals in the food like the Maillard reaction or recombine with itself to coagulate.\n\nTo render food unpleasant or dangerous to consume, it is denatured by adding a substance known as a denaturant. Aversive agents—primarily bitterants and pungent agents—are used to produce an unpleasant flavor. For example, the bitterant denatonium might be added to food used in a laboratory, where such food is not intended for human consumption. A poisonous substance may be added as an even more powerful deterrent. For example, methanol is blended with ethanol to produce denatured alcohol. The addition of methanol, which is poisonous, renders denatured alcohol unfit for consumption, as ingesting denatured alcohol may result in serious injury or death. Thus denatured alcohol is not subject to the taxes usually levied on the production and sale of alcoholic beverages. Aniline was used to denature colza oil in the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "7514120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7514120", "title": "EUDRANET", "text": "EUDRANET\n\nEUDRANET, the European Telecommunication Network in Pharmaceuticals (European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Network), is an IT platform to facilitate the exchange of information between regulatory partners and industry during submission and evaluation of applications. The aim of EUDRANET is to provide appropriate secure services for inter-Administration data interchange and for exchanges between Administrations and industry. EUDRANET is based on the TESTA backbone infrastructure provided by the IDA Programme.\n\nThe processes which EUDRANET supports include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2618295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2618295", "title": "Flâneur", "text": "Flâneur\n\nFlâneur (), from the French noun \"flâneur\", means \"stroller\", \"lounger\", \"saunterer\", or \"loafer\". \"Flânerie\" is the act of strolling, with all of its accompanying associations. A near-synonym is boulevardier.\n\nThe flâneur was, first of all, a literary type from 19th-century France, essential to any picture of the streets of Paris. The word carried a set of rich associations: the man of leisure, the idler, the urban explorer, the connoisseur of the street. It was Walter Benjamin, drawing on the poetry of Charles Baudelaire, who made this figure the object of scholarly interest in the 20th century, as an emblematic archetype of urban, modern experience. Following Benjamin, the flâneur has become an important symbol for scholars, artists and writers. Recent scholarship has also proposed the flâneuse, a female equivalent to the flâneur.\n\nFlâneur in English is via French from the Old Norse verb flana \"to wander with no purpose\".\n\nThe terms of \"flânerie\" date to the 16th or 17th century, denoting strolling, idling, often with the connotation of wasting time. But it was in the 19th century that a rich set of meanings and definitions surrounding the \"flâneur\" took shape.\n\nThe \"flâneur\" was defined in a long article in Larousse's \"Grand dictionnaire universel du XIXe siècle\" (in the 8th volume, from 1872). It described the \"flâneur\" in ambivalent terms, equal parts curiosity and laziness and presented a taxonomy of \"flânerie\"—\"flâneurs\" of the boulevards, of parks, of the arcades, of cafés, mindless \"flâneurs\" and intelligent \"flâneurs\".\n\nBy then, the term had already developed a rich set of associations. Sainte-Beuve wrote that to \"flâne\" \"is the very opposite of doing nothing\". Honoré de Balzac described \"flânerie\" as \"the gastronomy of the eye\". Anaïs Bazin wrote that \"the only, the true sovereign of Paris is the \"flâneur\"\". Victor Fournel, in \"Ce qu'on voit dans les rues de Paris\" (\"What One Sees in the Streets of Paris\", 1867), devoted a chapter to \"the art of \"flânerie\"\". For Fournel, there was nothing lazy in \"flânerie\". It was, rather, a way of understanding the rich variety of the city landscape. It was a moving photograph (\"un daguerréotype mobile et passioné\") of urban experience.\n\nIn the 1860s, in the midst of the rebuilding of Paris under Napoleon III and the Baron Haussmann, Charles Baudelaire presented a memorable portrait of the \"flâneur\" as the artist-poet of the modern metropolis:\n\nDrawing on Fournel, and on his analysis of the poetry of Baudelaire, Walter Benjamin described the \"flâneur\" as the essential figure of the modern urban spectator, an amateur detective and investigator of the city. More than this, his \"flâneur\" was a sign of the alienation of the city and of capitalism. For Benjamin, the \"flâneur\" met his demise with the triumph of consumer capitalism.\n\nIn these texts, the \"flâneur\" was often juxtaposed to the figure of the \"badaud\", the gawker or gaper. Fournel wrote: \"The \"flâneur\" must not be confused with the \"badaud\"; a nuance should be observed there…. The simple \"flâneur\" is always in full possession of his individuality, whereas the individuality of the \"badaud\" disappears. It is absorbed by the outside world…which intoxicates him to the point where he forgets himself. Under the influence of the spectacle which presents itself to him, the \"badaud\" becomes an impersonal creature; he is no longer a human being, he is part of the public, of the crowd.\"\n\nIn the decades since Benjamin, the \"flâneur\" has been the subject of a remarkable number of appropriations and interpretations. The figure of the \"flâneur\" has been used—among other things—to explain modern, urban experience, to explain urban spectatorship, to explain the class tensions and gender divisions of the nineteenth-century city, to describe modern alienation, to explain the sources of mass culture, to explain the postmodern spectatorial gaze. And it has served as a source of inspiration to writers and artists.\n\nThe female counterpart of the \"flâneur\", the \"passante\" (French for 'walker', 'passer-by'), appears in particular in the work of Marcel Proust. He portrayed several of his female characters as elusive, passing figures, who tended to ignore his obsessive (and at times possessive) view of them. Increasing freedoms and social innovations such as industrialisation later allowed the \"passante\" to become an active participant in the 19th century metropolis, as women's social roles expanded away from the domestic and the private and into the public and urban spheres.\n\nWhile Baudelaire characterized the \"flâneur\" as a \"gentleman stroller of city streets,\" he saw the \"flâneur\" as having a key role in understanding, participating in, and portraying the city. A \"flâneur\" thus played a double role in city life and in theory, that is, while remaining a detached observer. This stance, simultaneously part of and apart from, combines sociological, anthropological, literary, and historical notions of the relationship between the individual and the greater populace.\n\nIn the period after the 1848 Revolution in France, during which the Empire was reestablished with clearly bourgeois pretensions of \"order\" and \"morals\", Baudelaire began asserting that traditional art was inadequate for the new dynamic complications of modern life. Social and economic changes brought by industrialization demanded that the artist immerse himself in the metropolis and become, in Baudelaire's phrase, \"a botanist of the sidewalk\". David Harvey asserts that \"Baudelaire would be torn the rest of his life between the stances of \"flâneur\" and dandy, a disengaged and cynical voyeur on the one hand, and man of the people who enters into the life of his subjects with passion on the other\".\n\nThe observer–participant dialectic is evidenced in part by the dandy culture. Highly self-aware, and to a certain degree flamboyant and theatrical, dandies of the mid-nineteenth century created scenes through self-consciously outrageous acts like walking turtles on leashes down the streets of Paris. Such acts exemplify a \"flâneur\"'s active participation in and fascination with street life while displaying a critical attitude towards the uniformity, speed, and anonymity of modern life in the city.\n\nThe concept of the \"flâneur\" is important in academic discussions of the phenomenon of modernity. While Baudelaire's aesthetic and critical visions helped open up the modern city as a space for investigation, theorists such as Georg Simmel began to codify the urban experience in more sociological and psychological terms. In his essay \"The Metropolis and Mental Life\", Simmel theorized that the complexities of the modern city create new social bonds and new attitudes towards others. The modern city was transforming humans, giving them a new relationship to time and space, inculcating in them a \"blasé attitude,\" and altering fundamental notions of freedom and being:\n\nWriting in 1962, Cornelia Otis Skinner suggested that there was no English equivalent of the term: \"there is no Anglo-Saxon counterpart of that essentially Gallic individual, the deliberately aimless pedestrian, unencumbered by any obligation or sense of urgency, who, being French and therefore frugal, wastes nothing, including his time which he spends with the leisurely discrimination of a gourmet, savoring the multiple flavors of his city.\"\n\nThe concept of the \"flâneur\" has also become meaningful in architecture and urban planning, describing people who are indirectly and unintentionally affected by a particular design they experience only in passing.\n\nIn 1917, the Swiss writer Robert Walser published a short story called \"Der Spaziergang\" (\"The Walk\"), a veritable outcome of the flâneur literature.\n\nWalter Benjamin adopted the concept of the urban observer both as an analytical tool and as a lifestyle. From his Marxist standpoint, Benjamin describes the \"flâneur\" as a product of modern life and the Industrial Revolution without precedent, a parallel to the advent of the tourist. His \"flâneur\" is an uninvolved but highly perceptive bourgeois dilettante. Benjamin became his own prime example, making social and aesthetic observations during long walks through Paris. Even the title of his unfinished \"Arcades Project\" comes from his affection for covered shopping streets.\n\nIn the context of modern-day architecture and urban planning, designing for \"flâneurs\" is one way to approach issues of the psychological aspects of the built environment.\n\nThe \"flâneur's\" tendency toward detached but aesthetically attuned observation has brought the term into the literature of photography, particularly street photography. The street photographer is seen as one modern extension of the urban observer described by nineteenth century journalist Victor Fournel before the advent of the hand-held camera:\n\nThe most notable application of \"flâneur\" to street photography probably comes from Susan Sontag in her 1977 collection of essays, \"On Photography\". She describes how, since the development of hand-held cameras in the early 20th century, the camera has become the tool of the \"flâneur\":\n\nThe flâneur concept is not limited to someone committing the physical act of a peripatetic stroll in the Baudelairian sense, but can also include a \"complete philosophical way of living and thinking\", and a process of navigating erudition as described by Nassim Nicholas Taleb's essay on \"why I walk\". Taleb further set this term with a positive connotation referring to anyone pursuing open, flexible plans, in opposition to the negative \"touristification\", which he defines as the pursuit of an overly orderly plan. Louis Menand, in seeking to describe the poet T.S. Eliot's relationship to English literary society and his role in the formation of modernism, describes Eliot as a flâneur. Moreover, in one of Eliot's well-known poems \"The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock\", the protagonist takes the reader for a journey through his city in the manner of a flâneur.\n\nIn \"De Profundis\", Oscar Wilde writes from prison about his life regrets, stating \"I let myself be lured into long spells of senseless and sensual ease. I amused myself with being a flaneur, a dandy, a man of fashion. I surrounded myself with the smaller natures and the meaner minds.\"\n\nThe Irish music journalist and writer Pat Carty occasionally uses the title \"Le Flâneur\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25631567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25631567", "title": "Government Executive", "text": "Government Executive\n\nGovernment Executive is an American media publication based in Washington, D.C. that covers daily government business. Their reporting is tailored to civilian posts, federal bureaucrats, and military officials who partake in the day-to-day of public policy in the United States. \n\n\"Government Executive\" is led by Tom Shoop, the organization's vice president and editor-in-chief, and Katherine McIntire Peters, the deputy editor. Constance Sayers is its president and publisher, and Tim Hartman is chief executive officer of the Government Executive Media Group, a subsidiary of Atlantic Media. \n\nGovernment Executive Media Group also includes \"Nextgov\", which covers technology and the future of government; \"Defense One,\" covering emerging national security issues; and \"Route Fifty,\" reporting on state and local government. The site also maintains a burgeoning events division, which produces at least 85 events per year. Last year, it produced “Fedstival,” a convention of leaders throughout the U.S. federal government to discuss the future of bureaucracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29384369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29384369", "title": "Harem conspiracy", "text": "Harem conspiracy\n\nThe Harem Conspiracy was a plot to murder the Egyptian pharaoh Ramesses III. The principal figure behind the plot was one of the pharaoh's secondary wives, Tiye, who hoped to put her son Pentawere on the throne instead of the heir Ramesses IV. The plan was organized by the court official Pebekkamen. The plot was apparently successful in causing the death of the pharaoh, but failed in its main objective of establishing Pentawere on the throne. In the aftermath, the leading conspirators were convicted and executed.\n\nRamesses III was born during the Twentieth Dynasty to his father Pharaoh Setnakhte and mother Queen Tiy-merenese. His father Setnakhte came to the throne by rescuing Egypt from the hands of foreign powers. After Ramesses II or Ramesses The Great outlived twelve of his sons, Egypt was put in the hands of others. Setnakhte led Egypt into the Twentieth Dynasty. It is said that Ramesses III \"entered life destined for the kingship and remained at the pinnacle of society and power throughout\". Ramesses III ruled Egypt for 32 years before his life was cut short. He had recently relocated to Thebes to celebrate the Heb-Sed, the rejuvenation festival that occurs after a king rules for thirty years and it continues to take place every three years thereafter. It was in Thebes where this great conspiracy was performed.\n\nIn early April 1155 BC, Ramesses III was enjoying an evening in the royal harem when an attempt on his life was made. One of the king's wives, Queen Tiye, wished for her son, Pentawere, to take the throne over Ramesses IV; to effect this she had to remove Ramesses III as well as Ramesses IV. Tiye enlisted a group of officials throughout the administration as well as servants to help deliver messages beyond the harem. Tiye was also able to convince many of these officials to help act out the two-fold conspiracy. One of the pantry chiefs, Pebekkamen, was given the responsibility of becoming Tiye's ally as well as moving much of the information around. Pebekkamen received help from a butler named Mastesuria, the cattle overseer Panhayboni, and two administrators named Panouk and Pentua. Since the harem had very restricted access Panhayboni sought out the overseer of the King's treasury, Pairy, to gain access to the harem.\n\nThe conspirators believed that their plot would be aided by the use of black magic to deceive the guards at the harem and to allow certain messages to be delivered. Magical spells were also used to make Ramesses III more vulnerable, making him an easy target for assassination. The plotters enlisted the court magician Prekamenef and Ramesses III's personal physician Iyroy to conjure the magic. Spells and incantations were performed while the attempt to take the life of Ramesses III was happening.\n\nThere has been some dispute about how Ramesses was killed. It was once thought that poison was the most likely weapon, as the king seems to have survived the initial attack, only to die some days later. Recent study of his mummy, however, strongly suggests that Ramesses III's throat was cut, as revealed by a CAT scan.\n\nAfter the attack on his father, the heir Ramesses IV quickly took control. The conspirators were unable to muster the support needed to oust the heir. Ramesses picked twelve magistrates to investigate and judge the case. The Judicial Papyrus of Turin, the main source of information for this event, is the court document, which states the outcome of the case for each conspirator. The document includes the punishment of seven magistrates who were blackmailed by military associates into betraying the king. They were also caught and charged.\n\nThe Judicial Papyrus of Turin is the main source of evidence that the harem conspiracy occurred. Written over 3,000 years ago, it is one of the few surviving papyri relating to the event. The Papyrus is a combination of several papyri, the Papyrus Rollin, Papyrus Varzy, Papyrus Lee, Papyrus Rifaud and Papyrus Rifaud II. The text was originally separated by a thief who carefully cut the document, making sure to not do much damage to the text itself. The Judicial Papyrus was completely translated in 1937 by A. de Buck. There are multiple translations of the Judicial Papyrus of Turin, but most authors still refer to de Buck's translation. The document contains the entire list of those who participated in the conspiracy, as well as their verdict and punishment they received.\n\nThe Judicial Papyrus of Turin captures the situation in Egypt at the time, as well as many cultural tendencies. The Judicial Papyrus of Turin by Ramesses III says: \"As for the statements which the people made, I don't know anything about them. Proceed. And they will go and they will examine them and they will allow the one whom they would put to death to die by their own hands\" (2:6–2:7). The passage describes how it is not the magistrates' or the king's responsibility that the conspirators had to be killed, it was the conspirators' fault. Further in the text it describes how some of the great criminals will have their punishments executed upon them but it also discusses how some conspirators, including Pentawere, take their own life. Overall the Judicial Papyrus of Turin contains a list of 27 men and 6 women who were charged with high treason, 5 men charged with corruption. Historians do not know what happened to Queen Tiye. Her son may have committed suicide, but nothing is known about the outcome of her trial or even if she had one.\n"}
{"id": "39786051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39786051", "title": "International Union of Socialist Youth", "text": "International Union of Socialist Youth\n\nThe International Union of Socialist Youth (IUSY) is an international organization, founded in 1907, whose activities include publications, support of member organizations and the organization of meetings. It was formed as the youth wing of the Second International under the name Socialist Youth International. IUSY now has 145 member organisations - including 122 full members and 23 observer members - from 106 countries. IUSY gained status as an international youth NGO with UN ECOSOC consultative status in 1993.\n\nOn 24–27 August 1907, a meeting of 20 youth representatives from 13 countries met in the German city of Stuttgart and founded the Socialist Youth International as the youth organization of the Second International. Its international office was located in Vienna and it has remained there to this day except for a few brief extraordinary periods.\n\nThe socialist youth organizations, just like their mother parties, were confronted by the growing influence of nationalism and militarism in Europe. When the First World War broke out in 1914, even though the vast majority of the socialist parties openly supported their country's war efforts, the Socialist Youth International remained steadfast in their principled opposition to war and militarism. The organization had to move its offices to Zurich and from there it published its journal, \"Youth International\", calling for peace, which had to be distributed illegally given the circumstances. The struggle for peace subsequently became a hallmark of the socialist youth organization.\n\nThe formation of the Communist International in Moscow in 1919 officially split the worker's and youth movement into two sides. The representatives of the socialist and social-democratic current reconvened the International Socialist Youth Movement in 1921.\n\nIn 1925, in the wake of the fascist takeover of Italy, the youth organization from the country was forced to stop participating in the work of the ISYM. This marked the beginning of the organization's fight against fascism. In 1933, the Berlin office was evacuated to Prague.\n\nAfter the Second World War, on 30 September 1946, at the congress in Paris the organization formally became known as the International Union of Socialist Youth. It began to accept a growing number of youth organizations from outside of Europe and by the beginning of the 1950s IUSY included 73 member organizations from 50 countries. Since that time, the organization has more than doubled.\n\nFollowing the Paris congress and up through the 1960s, IUSY focused on supporting decolonisation efforts and struggles for independence, especially in Africa and Asia. In the 1970s, the organization was active in drawing attention to the human rights violations by military governments in South America and building up international solidarity campaigns, especially against Pinochet in Chile and Somoza in Nicaragua.\n\nIUSY was cautiously supportive of the democratization process in Eastern Europe because the organization wanted these changes to benefit the general population, not just a tiny elite. Although the nuclear arms race ended with the fall of the Berlin Wall, the transition from authoritarian regimes has brought about new conflicts in these regions. Human trafficking and refugees, resulting from civil conflicts, became the new focus of efforts on the part of IUSY. IUSY formed the Balkan Roundtable and Black Sea Area Committees to facilitate dialogue and cooperation among the different countries.\n\nLooking towards the future, there remains much work to be done. IUSY is committed to working with the member youth organizations to develop effective tools for the treatment and prevention of the HIV-AIDS pandemic. The advancement of individual human rights and liberties in many places is a special concern. The recent events have highlighted the basic economic inequality that exists throughout the world and drawn attention to the struggle for social justice and equality.\n\nIUSY's main field of activity is in the promotion of democracy, human rights, and youth policy. IUSY works by engaging international institutions, such as the Council of Europe, United Nations, Socialist International, European Youth Forum, and others, and directly targeting policy makers and media representatives at an international level to advocate for equal opportunities and the right to social and political participation for youth all over the world. Furthermore, IUSY trains activists at the grassroots level in the international political debate and policy development by organizing conferences and supporting political campaigns and initiatives on a regional and global level.\n\nIUSY works to strengthen its member organizations by providing a broad network of support and facilitating educational workshops and training seminars, aimed at increasing their capacity to fight for political change in their respective countries.\n\nThe IUSY Congress is the highest decision-making body within the organization. It elects the President, the Secretary General, the Presidium and the Control Commission. The IUSY Congress and IUSY Council take place every second year on an alternating basis. The IUSY coordinates its activities on two levels – regional and global. \n\nThe global Presidium is composed of the President, the Secretary General and 19 Vice-Presidents, who meet regularly to discuss and develop policy.\n\nThe IUSY has five regional committees – American, African, Asian-Pacific, European, and Mediterranean – that meet annually. Also, IUSY has two permanent working groups – Feminism and LGBT – that deal with issues involving those specific themes.\n\nThe IUSY Secretariat, led by the Secretary General, organizes all activities and is responsible for finances, communication, and the daily work of the organization. IUSY's working languages are English, French, and Spanish.\n\nThe IUSY World Festival brings together activists and is organized approximately every two or three years.\n\nIUSY is led by its Presidium, elected every two years at the Congress, with representatives from all over the world. The current members (2018–2020) are listed below:\n\nPresident:\n\nSecretary general:\n\nVice-presidents:\n\n\n\nIUSY has held international \"camps\" and \"festivals\" since 1952, at various locations around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46457711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46457711", "title": "James (Sákéj) Youngblood Henderson", "text": "James (Sákéj) Youngblood Henderson\n\nJames (Sakej) Youngblood Henderson is an international human rights lawyer, advocate, and educator. He was born in Oklahoma to the Bear Clan of the Chickasaw Nation and also has heritage from the Cheyenne Nation. Currently, he works in Canada as the Research Director of the Native Law Center and as a professor of Aboriginal law at the University of Saskatchewan College of Law. He is a member of a family of scholars and intellectuals, including Mi'kmaq educator Marie Battiste and Jaime Battiste.\n\nHenderson experienced poverty while growing up in Oklahoma, which prompted him to make ending poverty for all Indigenous peoples a life goal. As an undergraduate student, he served as the vice-president of the American National Indian Youth Council, which prompted him to look at the Civil Rights Movement as a model for a potential Indigenous rights movement. He attended Harvard Law School, where in 1974 he became one of the first Native Americans to be awarded the Juris Doctorate of Law.\n\nIn his first year out of Harvard Law School, Henderson completed his first major case, in which he reestablished for his father's clan several legal rights. Since then, Henderson has worked to protect Indigenous heritage and culture through legal means, working with the Canadian government, the Mi'kmaq Nation, the United Nations, and other First Nation governments. Additionally, he has taught law at Stanford University, Berkeley, Harvard University, and other North American law schools throughout his career. Henderson was brought to Canada in 1978 when his wife, Marie Battiste, was asked by the Grand Captain of the Mi'kmaq people to set up a bilingual education program in Nova Scotia. He then began working with the Mi'kmaw Nation on drafting their land titles and representing them in their legal proceedings. Between 1978 and 1983, Henderson worked with the Mi'kmaq Nation and the Assembly of First Nations as a constitutional advisor, and continued working with these groups through the constitutional process in Canada through 1993. His expertise in Indigenous legal issues lead Henderson to serve on the advisory board of the Canadian Minister of Foreign Affairs, as a member of the Sectoral Commission on Culture, Communication, and Information of the Canadian Commission for UNESCO between 2000 and 2010, and as a member of the Experts Advisory Group on International Cultural Diversity. Additionally, Henderson worked to protect Indigenous Nations's rights during the Kelowna Accord, and through the Four Directions Council, a United Nations Non-Governmental Organization. Throughout his career, he has helped draft and author many legal documents and other works which protect Indigenous heritage, culture, and legal rights, including the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Furthermore, he has authored several books, articles, and other writings on Indigenous law.\n\nHenderson has received several awards and honors for his proficiency in international law and his dedication to pursuing justice for Indigenous peoples, including an Indigenous People's Council award in 2005, a National Aboriginal Achievement Award, now the Indspire Award, for Law and Justice in 2006, and an Honorary Doctorate of Law from Carleton University in 2007. In addition, he was named a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56468994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56468994", "title": "Jewish Voice for Labour", "text": "Jewish Voice for Labour\n\nJewish Voice for Labour (JVL) is an organisation for Jewish members of the Labour Party. It was formed in 2017 as an alternative to the Jewish Labour Movement with the stated aims being to \"tackle allegations of antisemitism in the Labour Party\", \"to uphold the right of supporters of justice for Palestinians to engage in solidarity activities\" and \"opposing attempts to widen the definition of antisemitism beyond its meaning of hostility towards, or discrimination against, Jews as Jews.\"\n\nJVL was inaugurated in July 2017, and was officially launched on 24 September, during the second day of the Labour Party Conference in Brighton, with over 300 people in attendance according to JVL. The launch featured historian and Oxford University professor of international relations Professor Avi Shlaim, former Court of Appeal judge Sir Stephen Sedley and the Jewish Socialist Group's David Rosenberg.\n\nJewish Voice for Labour describes itself as a \"network for Jewish members of the Labour Party\" which \"stand for rights and justice for Jewish people everywhere and against wrongs and injustice to Palestinians and other oppressed people anywhere\". The organisation's founding statement advocated \"making the Labour Party an open, democratic and inclusive party, encouraging all ethnic groups and cultures to join and participate freely\", to support a commitment \"to strengthen the party in its opposition to all forms of racism, including antisemitism\", and \"does not make promoting the centrality of Israel to Jewish life a condition of membership\". The organisation's motto is \"Always with the oppressed; never with the oppressor\" which paraphrases a quote by Marek Edelman, the last surviving commander of the Warsaw Uprising.\n\nThe organisation only admits full membership to Labour Party members who identify as Jewish. All other members are associate members, without voting rights as the constitution specifies that the organisation is led by Jewish people so only Jews can vote on its policies. By contrast, Manson indicated that the Jewish Labour Movement accepts full membership to both non-Jewish and non-Labour Party members. JVL's media officer Naomi Wimborne-Idrissi has said the organisation's \"longer term aim\" could be to affiliate to Labour. Although, the organisation has been endorsed by leaders of Labour-affiliated trade unions, namely Len McCluskey, General Secretary of Unite the Union; and Tosh McDonald, president of ASLEF, and has affiliated to the Campaign for Labour Party Democracy and to the Centre-Left Grassroots Alliance.\nIn July 2017, Jenny Manson, an activist in Jews for Justice for Palestinians and a former Labour councillor, was elected chair. Manson has stated that the organisation's two purposes are to \"tackle allegations of antisemitism in the Labour Party\" and \"to uphold the right of supporters of justice for Palestinians to engage in solidarity activities.\"\n\nAlthough JVL has been described as \"anti-Zionist\", Manson has said the organisation is \"not anti-Zionist\" but stated that it was \"an alternative voice for Jewish members of Labour\" who do not support the Jewish Labour Movement's \"profoundly Zionist orientation\", JVL's information officer, Jonathan Rosenhead shares the latter opinion. Committee member, Ian Saville clarified that \"There is no ideological test to join\" and it is \"a group for Jews in the Labour Party that would welcome all Jews, whatever their attitude to Israel.\" Secretary, Glyn Secker wrote that JVL has \"established a very different, authentic, radical, and socialist Jewish narrative to that promulgated by the Jewish Labour Movement and Labour Friends of Israel.\" Wimborne-Idrissi wrote that one of JVL's roles \"is to clarify the distinction between Jew, Israeli and Zionist so that people are less likely to fall into antisemitic generalisation when talking about Israel's role in Palestine\", to offer \"an alternative to the JLM's pro-Israel agenda\" and \"...we do not believe it has the right to speak as the Jewish Labour Movement on behalf of all Jews in the Labour party.\" Co-Chairs Jenny Manson and Leah Levane \"contend that the JLM cannot represent all Jewish members of the Labour Party when it is committed 'to promote the centrality of Israel in Jewish life' as well as the wider Jerusalem Programme of the World Zionist Organization.\"\n\nLen McCluskey called the formation of JVL a \"positive move forward\". David Rosenberg, author and founding member of the Jewish Socialists' Group, described JVL as \"a broader, more inclusive, more open-minded group — not fixated on defending Israel...\" The organisation has been described as controversial and the Jewish Labour Movement has called its views an \"extreme fringe\". Stephen Sedley stated that \"...pro-Israeli groups such as the Jewish Labour Movement [are] seeking to drive out pro-Palestinian groups like the Jewish Voice for Labour by stigmatising them...\"\n\nJVL was reported by \"The Times of Israel\" in December 2017 to be closely linked to Free Speech on Israel (FSOI) which was founded in 2016, is non-Zionist and opposes the notion that anti-Zionism is anti-Semitism. However, Wimborne-Idrissi rejected this claim saying they are \"two separate organizations with different aims and objectives.\"\n\nAt the 2017 Labour Conference, JVL supported Hastings and Rye Constituency Labour Party's proposal to change the Labour Party Rule Book to add a clause which makes it clear that antisemitism will not be tolerated, whilst clarifying that \"hatred of Jews shall not be evidenced by non-abusive words or actions regarding Israel or zionism that are part of legitimate political discourse.\" The organisation opposed the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's Working Definition of Antisemitism being formally adopted by the Labour Party at the 2017 Conference, which it sees as \"attempts to widen the definition of antisemitism beyond its meaning of hostility towards, or discrimination against, Jews as Jews\". JVL sees the rule change, which was supported by Jeremy Corbyn, as an \"anti-democratic restriction on political debate\".\n\nThe organisation has defended former Mayor of London Ken Livingstone who was suspended from party membership for bringing the party into disrepute, supported Jackie Walker, deemed accusations of antisemitism against Moshé Machover as \"ill founded\", and opposed and condemned the expulsion of Marc Wadsworth as being \"punished in advance of investigation and hearing of the case.\"\n\nThe organisation has challenged \"unjustified allegations of antisemitism\" which are \"used to undermine Jeremy Corbyn's leadership\". In March 2018, JVL organised a smaller counter-demonstration, attended by around 30 people, according to \"The Independent\", at a protest against antisemitism in the Labour Party, held in Parliament Square, London. In a statement, JVL said it was \"appalled\" by the Board of Deputies of British Jews' letter and that \"They do not represent us or the great majority of Jews in the party who share Jeremy Corbyn's vision for social justice and fairness. Jeremy's consistent commitment to anti-racism is all the more needed now.\" Manson defended Corbyn on BBC's \"Daily Politics\", saying he had taken \"enormously strong action\" to deal with the issue in his party. Corbyn has said JVL are \"committed to fighting anti-Semitism and making sure there is a Jewish voice in the party. We already have the Jewish Labour Movement. JVL was established last year and I think it is good that we have organisations within the party that are giving that voice to people.\" In April, Manson on BBC Radio 4's \"Today programme\" referring to a survey conducted by Campaign Against Antisemitism said: \"Evidence including very recent evidence commissioned by a Jewish body suggests the very worst antisemitism is still on the right, on the far right and always has been\".\n\nIn the same month, JVL issued a statement saying they \"strongly condemn the Israeli army's violent response to the Land Day demonstration in Gaza, killing 15 Palestinian civilians and wounding hundreds more\" and called \"for an unconditional end to Israel's inhuman siege of Gaza and its brutal occupation of the West Bank which has destroyed the lives of generations of Palestinians.\"\n\nIn May, JVL with members of Free Speech on Israel produced a definition of antisemitism as: \"Antisemitism is a form of racism: hatred, hostility, discrimination or prejudice against Jews because they are Jews. It may be manifested in violence; denial of rights; direct, indirect or institutional discrimination; prejudice-based behaviour; or verbal or written statements. Such manifestations draw on stereotypes – characteristics which all Jews are presumed to share.\"\n\nIn July, JVL said in a statement about Labour's code of conduct that defines antisemitism which was adopted by the National Executive Committee (NEC) for the purposes of disciplinary cases brought before the National Constitutional Committee that it \"offers a constructive framework for moving forward in this difficult area\" and it encouraged \"free speech on issues to do with Israel and its treatment of the Palestinians, and with Zionism\" but \"much will depend on how this code of conduct is applied in practice, particularly in disciplinary cases. We are cautiously optimistic.\" In the same month, the organisation was a signatory of 41 Jewish organisations in 15 countries, including six based in the UK criticising the IHRA definition. In August, the organisation called for support of Labour's code of conduct and for the NEC to resist adopting the IHRA examples of antisemitism as it fell short of providing \"a clear and unambiguous statement based on attitudes to Jews as Jews, not attitudes to a country, Israel\".\n\nIn August, JVL complained to the BBC director-general Baron Tony Hall and news and current affairs director Francesca Unsworth by criticising and demonstrating against the BBC's \"lack of impartiality and inaccuracies\" and \"biased\" coverage of Labour MP Margaret Hodge's allegations of antisemitism against Jeremy Corbyn.\n\nIn September, JVL jointly with Free Speech on Israel published a declaration on antisemitic misconduct. JVL contributed to the consultation on Labour's code of conduct rejecting suggestions that comparisons between Israel and \"features of pre-war Nazi Germany\" or apartheid-era South Africa were \"inherently antisemitic\", arguing that \"Drawing such parallels can undoubtedly cause offence; but potent historical events and experiences are always key reference points in political debate. Such comparisons are only anti-Semitic if they show prejudice, hostility or hatred against Jews as Jews.\" Their guidelines on antisemitism include questions of Israel and Zionism such as \"Jews, Israelis and Zionists are separate categories that are too frequently conflated by both supporters and critics of Israel. This conflation can be anti-Semitic. Holding all Jews responsible for the actions of the Israeli government is anti-Semitic. Many Jews are not Zionist.\" The organisation also questioned whether \"discussion and education, rather than a formal disciplinary approach\" could be more appropriate in some cases of antisemitism.\n\nIn September, at the Labour Party Conference, JVL hosted two fringe events: \"Israel/Palestine: Antisemitism\" and \"Fighting The Far Right\". JVL also organised and hosted the premier of the documentary film \"The Political Lynching of Jackie Walker\" where 200 people were evacuated after a bomb threat. In a statement the organisation said the film \"is an incisive and chilling exposé of attempts to silence critics of Israel, in particular those who support the socialist project of Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. It connects the global struggle against racism and the far right with the Palestinian cause.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3511055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3511055", "title": "Kurt Wise", "text": "Kurt Wise\n\nKurt Patrick Wise (born 1959) is an American young earth creationist who serves as the Director of Creation Research Center at Truett McConnell University. He has a PhD in paleontology from Harvard University. He writes in support of creationism and works for the Creation Museum.\n\nIn 1989, Wise earned a Ph.D. in paleontology from Harvard University. In addition, he has an M.A. in geology from Harvard University and a B.A. Geology from the University of Chicago. In 1998, Robert Schadewald described Wise as influential on \"modern creationism as it is practiced at its higher levels.\"\n\nStarting in fall 2009 he has been the director of Truett McConnell University's newly created Creation Research Center in Cleveland, Georgia. Between August 2006 and May 2009 he taught at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary as director of the school's Center for Theology and Science, a job in which he was preceded by intelligent design advocate William Dembski. He had previously taught at Bryan College in Dayton, Tennessee where he served as Director of the Center for Origins Research and as an Associate Professor of Science for seventeen years.\n\nHe served as consultant to the Answers in Genesis Creation Museum which opened in 2007. Timothy H. Heaton, another scientist who studied under Stephen Jay Gould, knows Wise as \"a less propaganda-oriented creationist\" than Ken Ham, the leader of Answers in Genesis, and said that Wise's influence on the displays was apparent.\n\nWise has said he believes, according to a literal reading of the Bible, \"that the earth is young, and the universe is young, I would suggest that it's less than ten thousand years in age.\" He believes that science can be used to support and demonstrate these claims. Despite believing that science supports his position, Wise has written that:\n\nAs a young child interested in science, Wise tentatively adopted an old Earth creationist point of view after doing a science fair project on the geologic column, but was not completely satisfied with that decision:\n\nLater, as a sophomore in high school, he took a newly purchased Bible and a pair of scissors and cut out every verse which could not be interpreted literally if scientific determinations on the age of the earth and evolution were true. He pursued this task with a flashlight under the covers of his bed for several months; at the end, he had removed so much material that \"with the cover of the Bible taken off, I attempted to physically lift the Bible from the bed between two fingers. Yet, try as I might, and even with the benefit of intact margins throughout the pages of Scripture, I found it impossible to pick up the Bible without it being rent in two.\" Wise decided to reject evolution instead of Biblical literalism, deciding:\n\nBiologist and popular atheist author Richard Dawkins called Wise a truly honest creationist because he is willing to accept creationism even if he admitted \"all the evidence in the universe\" was against it. Dawkins, referring to Wise's testimony, criticized what he perceived as intellectual dishonesty:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51336723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51336723", "title": "Lagos State Youth Parliament", "text": "Lagos State Youth Parliament\n\nThe Lagos State Youth Parliament is the state leadership and legislative training ground for young people of Lagos State. It is one of the State Youth Parliaments established by the Constitution of the Nigerian Youth Parliament which endows it with the responsibility of preparing Nigerian youth in Lagos for participation in decision-making, inculcating in them leadership qualities for governance and public administration as well as equipping Lagos youths adequately for future challenges in their immediate environment and the world at large.\n\nThe Lagos State Youth Parliament enjoys the goodwill of its sittings being situated right inside Lagos State House of Assembly (LAHA) beside Government secretariat at Alausa in Ikeja, Central Business District. The Youth Parliament is a non-partisan establishment with standing organizational structure and Principal officers. There have been two youth parliaments in the past with the first getting inaugurated in year 2012 and the present one inaugurated on 16 August 2016, with Rt. Honourable Seriki Muritala Ishola elected as Speaker.\n\nThe Youth Parliament is made up of forty (40) Junior Legislators elected to represent their constituencies for a period of two (2) years. These constituencies cut across the twenty (20) Local Governments and thirty-seven (37) Local Council Development Areas.\n\nThe posts of other Principal Officers of the Lagos State Youth Parliament are vacant at the moment as elections are yet to be held for them.\n\nThe Lagos State Youth Parliament being under the tutelage of the Lagos State House of Assembly agrees its vision of being \"the leading light and pathfinder for Nigerian legislatures\", and the mission is \"to make laws that will ensure good governance, representing the will of Lagosians and in the process ensuring judicious use of the resources of the state in order for Lagosians to receive maximum benefit\"\n\nQualification for Membership of Lagos State Youth Parliament\n\nAn aspirant who wishes to become a member of Lagos State Youth Parliament must be :\n\n1. A citizen of Nigeria;\n\n2. Between the ages of eighteen to thirty years;\n\n3. Has been educated up to at least Senior Secondary School certificate level or its equivalent;\n\n4. Have passion for youth issues and leadership;\n\n5. Without conviction of any criminal offence and must not belong to any secret cult.\n"}
{"id": "42655458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42655458", "title": "Liberty GB", "text": "Liberty GB\n\nLiberty Great Britain or Liberty GB was a far-right British nationalist political party that described itself as counter-jihad. It was registered with the Electoral Commission by Paul Weston and George Whale on 5 March 2013. Its three candidates in the 2014 European Parliament election in the South East England constituency received 2,414 votes (0.11%). Paul Weston dissolved the party in November 2017, choosing instead to back Anne Marie Waters' new party, For Britain.\n\nWeston is a former member of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), and was that party's candidate in Cities of London and Westminster at the 2010 general election. He left UKIP over what he described as its failure to address issues related to Islam in Britain, and took over the British Freedom Party (BFP) from Peter Mullins. That party formed an alliance with the far-right English Defence League. Weston left the BFP in 2013. He has predicted that within 20 years there will be a war in Britain between the white working class and immigrants. He is married to a Romanian, and claims to have been a deep sea diver, a pilot in Africa and a property developer in the Czech Republic.\n\nLiberty GB was anti-immigration, anti-fundamentalist Islam and traditionalist. The group's Facebook page described it as \"patriotic counter-jihad party for Christian civilisation, Western rights and freedoms, British culture, animal welfare and capitalism\".\n\nLiberty GB stood three candidates in the 2014 European Parliament election in the South East England constituency: Weston, Enza Ferreri (Liberty GB's media officer) and Jack Buckby (Liberty GB's outreach officer). Buckby founded the \"National Culturists\" while at university in Liverpool in 2012. It received 2,414 votes (0.11%), placing it 14th of the 15 parties contesting the election.\n\nOn 26 April 2014, Weston was arrested while addressing passers-by outside Winchester Guildhall. A member of the public complained to police and he was detained after failing to move on under a dispersal order. He was further arrested on suspicion of religious or racial harassment. Weston's speech quoted from Winston Churchill's 1899 book \"The River War\", about Churchill's experiences as a British army officer in Sudan; the passage quoted was critical of Islam. Weston is a former UK Independence Party (UKIP) candidate who left that party over what he described as its failure to address issues related to Islam in Britain, and then joined the British Freedom Party.\n\nTim Burton, a radio presenter who was a member of Liberty GB, was acquitted of charges of racially aggravated harassment on 4 May 2014 at Birmingham magistrates' court. He had tweeted comments about Fiyaz Mughal OBE, a Muslim campaigner of Tell MAMA UK.\n\nFollowing the killing of the incumbent Labour MP Jo Cox, Liberty GB contested the Batley and Spen by-election (the Conservative Party, Liberal Democrats and UKIP declined to contest it). The party's candidate was Jack Buckby, who was a member of the youth division of the British National Party (BNP) under Nick Griffin before leaving the party. He says he left because he believed that the BNP was too racist. Buckby polled just over 1% of the vote; he lost his deposit, as did all the candidates except the winner, the Labour candidate Tracy Brabin.\n\nThe party contested three constituencies, obtaining a total of 418 votes.\n"}
{"id": "3551959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3551959", "title": "List of animal advocacy parties", "text": "List of animal advocacy parties\n\nIn recent years, several political parties were founded that have as their main goal the improvement of animal welfare and the recognition of animal rights:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39646365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39646365", "title": "List of government mass surveillance projects", "text": "List of government mass surveillance projects\n\nThis is a list of government surveillance projects and related databases throughout the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45207340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45207340", "title": "Louise Leonard McLaren", "text": "Louise Leonard McLaren\n\nLouise Leonard McLaren (August 10, 1865 – December 16, 1968) born in Wellsboro, Pennsylvania, was founder of the Southern Summer School for Women Workers.\n\nShe attended Miss Beret's School for Ladies in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania and went on to earn her A.B. at Vassar College in 1907; She then taught history until 1914 when she became the YWCA industrial secretary in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania. In this capacity she traveled through the south in order to organize women workers in industry. After earning an A.M. in economics at Columbia University in 1927 she decided to organize the Southern Summer School for Women Workers. Leonard recruited a faculty from women's colleges. It was modeled on the Bryn Mawr Summer School for Women Workers in Industry originated by Hilda Worthington Smith. She viewed workers' education as a means for social change. Writing in \"Vassar Quarterly\" about her work she commented, \"these awakening workers of the South have a chance to get worker's education, as they demand social and economic enfranchisement.\"\n\nThe first Southern Summer School met at rented facilities in 1927 at Sweet Briar College in Virginia. It never had permanent quarters, and moved each year. The 25 students each year were carefully chosen and all white, but the philosophy that Louise espoused made no difference between faculty and student, emphasizing \"there is no line drawn between faculty and student as there is in academic life.\" The students were chosen to represent all the typical industries of the south and Leonard was intent on teaching the \"social attitudes appropriate to the machine age\". In 1930 Louise Leonard married Myron Mclaren, a professor at St.Johns college in Maryland. When he lost his job during the depression she supported them both. The couple was childless and she devoted herself to the work, under her charge more than 300 working class women came to summer residence, being trained as leaders in their fields. In 1938 men were included in the residence program and by 1940 half of the students were men. She had the support of the labor unions and had a commitment to the tenets of workers' education.\n\nIn 1944 Louise McLaren moved to New York City where she served as organizer for the Congress of Industrial Organizations Political Action committee. She held various positions eventually retiring from a teaching and research position with the American Labor Education Service. She was part of a network of reform-minded women that met in the 1920s and later became academic social scientists (including Marie Algor, Hilda (Jane) Smith, Mary C. Barker, Ernestine Friedmann, Alice Shoemaker, Amy Bruce, and Eleanor G. Coit). Some were former YWCA industrial and executive secretaries whom went on to establish summer schools, taught workers' education programs, did research and field work, and also held seminars and conferences for workers' education. Throughout the years of cooperative work in the field they managed to stay in touch and this resulted in lasting friendships. \n\nShe died in East Stroudsburg, Pa. in 1968 of heart disease at age 83. She had a vision of industrial society and with an unfailing sense of optimism and with hard work and dedication inspired several generations of southern working women.\n\n"}
{"id": "36248287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36248287", "title": "Manitoba Advanced Education and Literacy", "text": "Manitoba Advanced Education and Literacy\n\nManitoba Advanced Education and Literacy was a department of the Government of Manitoba. \n\nIn the 2011-2012 Annual Report, the department's stated goal is \nThe listed acts provide the structure under which the department operated : \n\nDiane McGifford served as the first minister of the new portfolio from September 21, 2006 to March 28, 2011. Erin Selby was the Minister of Advanced Education and Literacy, from March 28, 2011 - October 18, 2013 .\nJames Allum held the position from October 18, 2013 to November 3, 2014.\n\nThe Ministry name was changed to Education and Advanced Learning on November 3, 2014 when\nPeter Bjornson was appointed. He served until April 29, 2015 when James Allum returned to the office. His term was completed in May 3, 2016.\n\nThe Manitoba cabinet was re-organized after the provincial general election of 2016. The department's responsibilities formed part of the new Education and Training portfolio under the direction of Ian Wishart. \n\n"}
{"id": "44368785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44368785", "title": "Military imposter", "text": "Military imposter\n\nA military imposter is a person who makes false claims about his or her military service in civilian life. This includes claims by people that have never been in the military as well as lies or embellishments by genuine veterans. Some individuals who do this also wear privately obtained uniforms or medals which were never officially issued to them.\n\nIn British military slang, such imposters are called \"Walts\", based on James Thurber's fictional character, Walter Mitty, who daydreamed of being a war hero. In the United States since the early 2000s, the term \"stolen valor\" has become popular slang for this kind of behavior, so named for the 1998 book of that name. Other terms include \"fake warriors\", \"military phonies\", \"medal cheats\",and \"military posers\".\n\nLying about military service or wearing a uniform or medals that were not earned is criminalized in some circumstances, especially if done with the goal of obtaining money or any other kind of tangible benefit, though laws vary by country.\n\nMilitary impostors engage in a broad range of deceptive behaviors, all intended to achieve recognition from others. An impostor may make verbal statements, written claims, or create deceptive impressions through actions, such as wearing a uniform, rank insignia, unit symbols, medals, or patches. \n\nGenerally impostors fall into two broad categories: civilians who have never been in any branch of the military, and real veterans who make false claims exaggerating their experiences or accomplishments. Impostors in the latter category may claim any of the following: \n\n\nWhile many individuals outright fabricate some or all of their military service history, others employ equivocation tactics or similarly misleading language that avoids making a technically false statement, but still gives a deceptive impression. A common example is stating one was in a branch of the military during a specific war. In many contexts, such a statement \"implies\" that the speaker was deployed to a combat zone, even if in reality never left their home country. A similar misleading statement is boasting about being a member of a branch or unit that is well known for its combat prowess and heroic achievements, when the speaker was purely in a logistical role without any combat experience. Imposters also frequently claim to be part of \"classified\" operations as an excuse for why they cannot provide details or, when confronted, why there is no record of their actions or service.\n\nReasons for posing as a member of the military or exaggerating one's service record vary, but the intent is almost always about gaining the respect and admiration of others. Philosophy professor Verna V. Gehring describes such people as \"virtue imposters,\" in that they don't necessarily adopt the identity of another person, but instead adopt a false history for themselves to impersonate virtues and characteristics. Many are only motivated by social recognition, attempting to exploit the reverence and respect for veterans in their country. These individuals often become absorbed in a fantasy of being a veteran that they attempt to live out in real life, sometimes even inserting themselves into public events or ceremonies, or volunteering for interviews with journalists about their alleged experiences. Others are motivated by more direct gains, such as impressing employers, casting directors, audiences, investors, voters in political campaigns or romantic interests.\n\nOccasionally imposters use their claims in an attempt to intimidate others, such as claiming to be a trained sniper or ex-special forces, or use their fabricated experiences as a pretense of authority for their opinions on political matters. False claims of military service are also used by panhandlers to increase their take, sometimes coupled with real or fake injuries that are implied to be combat-related.\n\nMilitary imposters are frequently caught and exposed due to mistakes and inconsistencies in their story or behavior. For example, they may be too young or too old to have been in the war they say they were or too young for the rank they claim to be, might inadvertently claim to have been in two different places at once, or might state factually incorrect information about the war they allegedly were part of. Among imposters that wear uniforms, they often make mistakes about the placement of patches, insignia and medals, and may have some from the wrong branch or from old campaigns they could not possibly have been in. Real veterans often can spot mistakes more readily, especially if they were part of the same branch the imposter claims to have been in.\n\nSome countries have ways of verifying military service and certain claims within it. In the United States, any real veteran that has been separated from the military for any reason has a DD Form 214 they can present, which indicates their branch, rank, unit, MOS, awards, and other information. Alternatively, requests can also be made to the National Personnel Records Center using the Freedom of Information Act to verify service. Other claims can be verified against public lists, such as recipients of the Medal of Honor or the prisoner of war list from the Vietnam War. Several websites are specifically devoted to verifying the claims of alleged military imposters, and if discovered to have lied, proceed to shame the perpetrator publicly.\n\nAccusations do occasionally backfire, with real veterans accused of being imposters. Doug Sterner, a Vietnam War veteran who catalogs military awards, and \"Stolen Valor\" author B.G. Burkett, note that some modern veterans have become hypersensitive to imposters, leading to vigilantism or even turning detection into a \"hunting game.\" A common error is placing too much emphasis on neatness of a uniform or certain quirks about how it's worn, which is not necessarily compelling when a veteran is older and has been out of the service for several decades. Another is making too many inferences based on older regulations, such as gender restrictions that were in place in the past. Even FOIA requests to the National Personnel Records Center, considered the most thorough type of verification for US veterans, are not perfect and sometimes fail to find a record even if the veteran is genuine. Sterner states, \"There’s some people that feel good about confronting people, and making themselves look big by trying to take them down. But when they do that, they’re going to make mistakes.\"\n\nLaws vary between countries regarding false statements about military service and/or wearing of uniforms or medals.\n\nIn the United States, the Stolen Valor Act of 2013 makes it a federal offense to falsely claim to have received any of several major military awards with the intention of obtaining money, property, or other tangible benefits. There are additional laws criminalizing the altering or forging of discharge documents, and attempting to obtain veteran's benefits from the government.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it was an offense under the Army Act 1955 to wear real or replica military decorations with intent to deceive. However, this law was superseded by the Armed Forces Act 2006, which lacks this prohibition. \n\nIt is still a crime in the UK for a civilian to wear a uniform of the armed forces without authorization under the Uniforms Act 1894, and false claims of military service used to obtain money or other enrichment are prosecuted under the general crime of fraud. In November 2016, the Defence Select Committee recommended making the wearing of unearned medals a criminal offence punishable by up to six months imprisonment.\n\nUnder the Australia's Defence Act, 1903, as amended, it is a federal crime to falsely claim to be a returned soldier, sailor or airman. It is also a crime to wear any service decoration one has not earned.\n\nIn Canada, section 419 of the Criminal Code makes it a crime to wear a uniform from the Canadian Forces without authority as well as any awards or marks not earned. It additionally makes it a crime to possess any fraudulent discharge papers, commissions, warrants or military ID, including those that are forged, altered or belong to someone else.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6988322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6988322", "title": "Million Voices Against Corruption, President Chen Must Go", "text": "Million Voices Against Corruption, President Chen Must Go\n\nMillion Voices against Corruption, President Chen Must Go (百萬人民反貪腐倒扁運動) was a Taiwanese mass campaign led by former Democratic Progressive Party Chairperson Shih Ming-teh to pressure the Taiwanese President Chen Shui-bian to resign in 2006.\n\nTaiwan's political scene is divided into two major groups. On one side are the pan-Blues, consisting of the Chinese Nationalist Party (Kuomintang, or KMT) and two spin-off parties, the People First Party (PFP), and the New Party. Facing them are the pan-Greens, led by the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), and its ally the Taiwan Solidarity Union (TSU). Since the accession of Chen Shui-bian of the DPP to the Presidency in 2000, the Blue-controlled legislature had struggled to oust him, making changes to the impeachment process early in his administration, and attempting to recall him several times.\n\nThe latest round of recalls by the Blue side began in the summer of 2006, following a series of accusations of corruption against Chen and members of the first family. Allegations include insider trading by Chen's son-in-law, buying and selling of shares, and improper use of government funds. The recall motion was defeated due to a lack of votes.\n\nChen has denied any wrongdoing and not been found guilty by the Taiwanese judicial system. But his approval ratings fell, though the polls that show this is either from pro-Blue news media (which put him at about ~20%) or of completely unsupportable methodology, such as the notorious TSU poll that had him at just 5.8%. Hence, the actual extent of the decline is unknown. There have been calls from within his own party calling for his resignation, since there was some fear among the Greens that the scandals will affect the legislative election and the Presidential election in 2008.\n\nThe \"Million Voices Against Corruption\" campaign began in August 2006 when former DPP chairman and long-time democracy and independence activist Shih Ming-te announced that he would launch a protest campaign to force the President to resign. Shih had stepped down as chairman of the DPP in 1995, and began a long political drift from the Green side over to the Blue. According to his own version, he left the DPP in 1999, though party members said they kicked him out in 2000, blaming his grandstanding and repeated public attacks on his colleagues. In 2001 he became convener of a local pro-Blue thinktank called the Mountain Alliance, along with two other DPP turncoats, Sisy Chen and Hsu Hsin-liang. He ran unsuccessfully for mayor of Kaohsiung, garnering 1% of the vote, and also lost legislative elections in Taipei, both times running against DPP candidates. Shih's political career appeared to be in eclipse. Several years passed.\n\nIn August 2006 Shih came back to prominence. During questioning at the Presidential Office on the afternoon of 7 August 2006, the president detailed to the prosecutor how he spent the fund and presented relevant receipts and bank remittance statements. On the same day, Shih Ming-te, a former ally of Chen, wrote a letter to Chen urging him to resign from office and to admit wrongdoing so as to \"set a good example for the Taiwanese people\". The proposal was rejected. On August 8 Shih announced his intention to open a bank account and collect NT$100 from supporters, which would be used to fund a protest in Taipei aimed at ousting the President.\n\nOn 10 August 2006, Shih Ming-te began to plan the \"Million Voices against Corruption, President Chen Must Go\" campaign. Shih offered to lead the Taiwanese people in street demonstrations if he were able to raise at least 100,000,000 New Taiwan Dollars (NTD) in fundraising for his campaign.\n\nIn the meantime the Pan-Green supporters criticized the actions of Shih Ming-Te. Initially they recovered letters from his past begging the government for mercy when he was a political prisoner, but such tactics were widely seen as unseemly. More effective was the fact that Shih, supposedly battling against corruption, had personal connections to former Tuntex Group chairman Chen Yu-hao, one of the island's most famous embezzlers, a connection that Shih boasts of. Chen Yu-hao is widely known to be strongly opposed to President Chen. The Greens also raised questions about Shih's own finances, and made allegations that Shih was a tool of the People's Republic of China. Security agencies found no connections, however.\n\nShih Ming-te called for various prominent Taiwanese (Republic of China) politicians to join in demonstrating for the resignation of Chen Shui-bian. However, although the demonstration was attended by all the major Blue politicians, no prominent Green politicians appeared.\n\nOn 9 September 2006, the demonstration began as a gathering in front of the presidential office. Demonstrators were organized into the shape of a compass (as viewed from the sky) to symbolize the protesters' demands for integrity within government. Free meals were offered to the demonstrators by the organizers, and various events were held, including performances by children reciting Daxue, an ancient Chinese text by Confucius and his followers. Organizers estimated the number of participants to be around 300,000 at the start of the campaign (the police estimated the number to be closer to 90,000). Demonstrators were dressed in red as a sign of anger, gestured thumbs-down as a sign of disapproval, and chanted \"Ah-Bian, step down! Ah-Bian, step down!\" () as they marched through downtown Taipei.\n\nVarious pro-Blue national celebrities and pan-Blue politicians (current and former) took part in the event. Demonstrators consist of Taiwanese (ROC) citizens and foreign nationals of all age groups, including students from various international schools located in Taipei and a number of Japanese-immigrated ROC expatriates. However, as numerous sources pointed out, the bulk of Shih's followers were not disappointed moderates from across the political spectrum, as campaign planners claimed, but longtime Blues. Shih himself would later concede this in an interview published in the New York Times on Sept. 28, 2006.\n\nOn the night of 15 September 2006, demonstrators organized an effort to \"surround the city\" () with people holding glowsticks (especially red ones), in order to \"block\" Chen from leaving the city, as well as to relocate the demonstrations from its original location near the presidential office to Taipei Main Station. The event proved successful despite the inclement weather. Demonstrators in red shirts held glowsticks as they marched from GongYuan Rd. to the station, filling the entire road.\n\nMRT officials announced that additional trains would run until 1 A.M. The next day, the Taipei Rapid Transit Corporation announced a new record of 1.51 million passengers passing in and out of the stations during the night of the protest. Currently, it seems the Main Station has become the most popular public resting place for the protesters past midnight because of its proximity to the protest center as well as conveniences the station provides, including shelter, food, and hygiene facilities. Critics of the demonstrations have pointed out that the protests have increased MRT ridership congestions, as the daily commuters now must cope with the additional riders. In addition, the protests have also caused havoc on Taipei's already congested traffic, and the cost of the protests has become burdensome for the city's residents.\n\nAfter the 15 September 2006 demonstrations, Shih led a team of people through every major city in Taiwan () using tour buses to join local demonstrations. Organizers claim that anti-Chen protests occurred every day in October. The protests were mainly peaceful. Nonetheless, minor incidents of violence erupted when the protesters entered the Pan-Green leaning regions of southern Taiwan.\n\nOn 10 October 2006, ROC (Taiwan)'s National Day, the protesters returned to Ketagalan Avenue for another \"Besiege the Presidential Office\" demonstration () without first seeking demonstration permits from the police. Chen was heckled by opposition legislators of the Pan-Blue Coalition during a state ceremony attended by foreign dignitaries. There were also isolated, minor incidents of violence, including fist fights between Pan-Blue and Pan-Green legislators. In response, President Chen threatened to cancel the National Day celebration for 2007 because \"everyone has different opinions and doesn't care\". Chen also stated his commitment to clean politics and his intolerance of governmental corruption. After the ceremony, the government criticized the demonstrators, characterizing the demonstrations as disrespectful and illegal. Notably, while attending the ceremony, the AIT (American Institute in Taiwan) top official (and de facto United States ambassador) asked the protesters \"to maintain politeness\".\nDemonstrators claim that the guards protecting and surrounding the office wore red underwear underneath their uniforms, signifying solidarity with the protesters, though they could not display the color on their guard uniforms.\n\nShih, a former political prisoner, has vowed to demonstrate indefinitely outside the presidential office, even until March 2008, when Taiwan (Republic of China) is due to hold the next presidential election, or until Chen, also a former political prisoner, resigns. However, in December 2006 Shih went back on this pledge, instead retiring to an apartment near the train station and promising to remain there until Chen's term was over.\n\nOn 14 October 2006, the Taipei Police repealed Shih's petition for further protest on Ketagalan Avenue because the protests on 10 October 2006 had violated the city law. Afterward, Shih agreed to shrink the size of their demonstration before planning another massive campaign.\n\nThe anti-Chen campaign achieved its intended effect of ousting the DPP from power, and returning the former Kuomintang to power. The efforts of the Pan-Blue red shirts have been widely praised by Chinese government media and various media outlets controlled by the Chinese Communist Party.\n\nOn 3 November 2006, Chen's wife Wu Shu-chen (吳淑珍) and three other high-ranking officials of the Presidential Office were indicted of forgery and embezzlement of NTD 14.8 million (US$450,000) of government funds using faked documents. Due to the protection from the Constitution against prosecution of the sitting president, Chen could not be prosecuted until he left office, and he was not indicted, but was alleged to be an accomplice on his wife's indictment.\n\nThe prosecutor of the case has indicated that once Chen leaves office, his office will start the procedures to press charges against Chen. His wife Wu becomes the first sitting First Lady of the Republic of China to face criminal charges since the foundation of the Republic in 1911.\n\nThe indictment filed by prosecutors states that the indicted persons obtained government funds earmarked for secret foreign affairs, yet of six supposed secret diplomatic missions, there was sufficient evidence presented for only two. Of the remaining four, it was concluded that one did not exist, and in the case of the other three, the invoices presented were not found to be related to the secret missions.\n\nThe Pan-Blue coalition, after receiving the news, demanded to call for another recall motion unless Chen resigned immediately. Another small party that backed Chen previously, Taiwan Solidarity Union, founded by former KMT Chairman and ROC President Lee Teng-hui, said Friday they would likely to support the upcoming recall measure. However, the TSU said it would only support the new recall motion if \"concrete evidence concerning corruption is presented.\" If the recall passed, it would be up to the voters to decide Chen's fate in an island-wide referendum.\n\nLeaders of the Democratic Progressive Party met together on Friday to discuss the unfavorable charges. The meeting ended when party leaders demanded Chen to explain the accusation within three days. There has long been rumbles inside the DPP that Chen has become their liability and that they should recall him before the presidential election. If Chen resigned, he would be the first Taiwanese president to step down and the outspoken vice president Annette Lu would likely take power.\n\nAfter the prosecutor announced the indictment news, the campaign leader Shih proclaimed in a rally in Friday that the indictment was the historical high point in Taiwan and the month long campaign was a success. Then, Shih led the protesters back to Ketagalan Boulevard for more sit-in demonstrations.\n\nIn a press conference 5 November 2006, Chen rebutted the charges against his wife and members of his Presidential office. He said that Taiwan government offices advised him to prepare the receipts in such a fashion, and that after 6 years of doing so, it is strange that they would never mention an irregularity if it wasn't the right way to do it. He promised that all of the money actually went to diplomatic missions and did not go into any private pockets. Furthermore, he mentioned that when he took office, he thought his salary was so excessive that he cut his own salary in half, and that reduction is more than the amount he is accused of embezzling, so there is no need for him to take those money. In addition, he said that if the charges against his wife were proven in a court of law just as they were charged, then he would at that time step down as President of the Republic of China.\n\nThe First Lady claimed to have fainted during a press conference, and is currently staying in the NTU Hospital. However, many dispute that Wu truly lost consciousness, as she grabbed a bodyguard after she collapsed.\n\nOn 9 September 2007, thousand of protesters gathered at Ketagalan Boulevard to mark the one-year anniversary of the campaign. More than 1000 police officers were deployed, but no clashes were reported in the candle-lit vigil. Campaign leader Shih Ming-teh also appeared at the vigil to address the crowd. He reassured that their persistence would pay off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24884489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24884489", "title": "Ministry of War of Saxony", "text": "Ministry of War of Saxony\n\nThe Ministry of War of Saxony was a government ministry of the Kingdom of Saxony that existed from 1831 to 1919. It subsequently briefly existed as the Ministry of Defence in the Free State of Saxony from 1918 until 1919, when the new Weimar Constitution of Germany provided for the replacement of all state ministries of defence by the Federal Ministry of Defence.\n\n"}
{"id": "8039195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8039195", "title": "Monklandsgate", "text": "Monklandsgate\n\nMonklandsgate was the name of a political scandal in the former Scottish local government district of Monklands (now part of North Lanarkshire) which dominated the Monklands East by-election in 1994.\n\nMonklandsgate consisted of allegations of sectarianism spending discrepancies between Protestant Airdrie and Catholic Coatbridge, fuelled by the fact that all 17 of the ruling Labour group were Roman Catholics.\n\nAccusations included: £21m spent on capital projects in Coatbridge while only £2m was spent in Airdrie; councillors handing out green job application forms while the job centre handed out white ones; and also accusations of nepotism as dozens of council workers were related to Labour councillors. The accusations were of increased interest to the media as the Monklands West MP was Tom Clarke, former Monklands District Provost and one time Shadow Secretary of State for Scotland, while the Monklands East MP was the Labour leader, John Smith. The allegations of sectarianism were found to be untrue, however allegations of nepotism proved to be true.\n\nDespite the allegations Helen Liddell narrowly retained the seat for Labour, against a strong swing to Kay Ullrich of the Scottish National Party.\n"}
{"id": "38469529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38469529", "title": "National Women's Party of Turkey", "text": "National Women's Party of Turkey\n\nNational Women's Party of Turkey (, TUKP for short) was a former Turkish political party.\n\nIt was founded on 17 November 1972 by Mübeccel Göktuna Törüner in İstanbul. In the 1970s women's participation in Turkish politics was very low. For example, in the 1969 elections only 5 women MPs were elected to the 450-seat lower house of the parliament. Thus the goal of the party was to increase women's participation in politics.\n\nHowever the party faced with legal barriers. In order to enter the elections, the party had to form branch offices in at least 15 provinces which the party failed to achieve. Before they were able to fulfill the legal requirements to enter the election however, the activities of all Turkish parties were suspended as a result of the 1980 Turkish coup d'état. On 16 September 1981 the party (like all other parties) was closed by the military rule. Unlike main parties, the National Women's party was not revived after Turkey returned to civilian democracy in 1983. In June 2014, however, women's rights activists (led by Benal Yazgan) submitted a petition to the Interior Ministry for a new Woman Party (\"Kadın Partisi\") to be formally registered as a political party.\n\n"}
{"id": "3634381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634381", "title": "Nobutaka Shiōden", "text": "Nobutaka Shiōden\n\nA native of Saitama Prefecture, Shiōden was a graduate of the 11th class of the Imperial Japanese Army Academy in November 1899, and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Imperial Guard of Japan. He served in various postings with the Imperial Guard, including some time with the Japanese garrison force in China, and also served in a number of administrative and staff positions within the Imperial Japanese Army General Staff. He graduated from the Army Staff College in 1909.\n\nDuring World War I, from 1914-1918 Shiōden was sent to France as a military attaché and official Japanese military observer. While in Paris, he was exposed to the common theory that an international Jewish conspiracy was behind the war, thereafter he began to research into issues related to Freemasonry, and the so-called “Jewish-problem”, as a result of which he became a fervent anti-Semite and leading voice of anti-Semitic propaganda in Japan.\n\nIn 1920, Shiōden was assigned to the Harbin special operations office within the Kwantung Army. Harbin was home to a large population of Russians, including many Jews. A strong supporter of military aviation from his first-hand experiences in World War I, Shiōden returned to Japan in 1922 to assume command of the Army Aviation School. He later served on the Military Aviation Bureau within the General Staff.\n\nIn 1924, Shiōden was promoted to major general.\n\nIn 1936, Shiōden translated \"The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion\" into Japanese. In 1928, he served on the staff of the IJA 16th Division and IJA 3rd Division. He was promoted to lieutenant general in 1929, and entered the reserves the same year. He subsequently served in the largely honorary post as Chairman of the Imperial Aviation Association, which promoted the development of Japanese military aviation and ran donation campaigns for the funding of new aircraft. From 1942-1945, he served as a member of the House of Peers in the Diet of Japan.\n\nAfter the surrender of Japan, Shiōden was arrested by the American occupation authorities, but was not prosecuted for any war crimes and was released in 1947.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5648888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5648888", "title": "Oregon Citizens Alliance", "text": "Oregon Citizens Alliance\n\nThe Oregon Citizens Alliance (OCA) was a conservative Christian political activist organization, founded by Lon Mabon in the U.S. state of Oregon. It was founded in 1986 as a vehicle to challenge then–U.S. Senator Bob Packwood in the Republican primaries,\nand was involved in Oregon politics from the late 1980s into the 1990s.\n\nIn 1988 the group sponsored Measure 8, an initiative that repealed Governor Neil Goldschmidt's executive order banning discrimination based on sexual orientation in the executive branch of state government. The measure not only repealed the executive order, but also put a statute on the books that prohibited any job protection for gay people in state government. The measure was approved by the voters, 52.7 percent to 47.3 percent. It was the OCA's only statewide victory.\n\nAfterwards, the OCA turned its attention to abortion. It placed Measure 10 on the 1990 general election ballot, which would have required parental notification for a minor's abortion. The measure was defeated, 52.2 percent to 47.8 percent.\n\nIn 1992 the OCA returned to the issue of homosexuality, when it proposed Measure 9. This initiative would have amended the Oregon Constitution to prevent what the OCA called \"special rights\" for homosexuals and bisexuals, by adding a provision that the state \"recognizes homosexuality, pedophilia, sadism and masochism as abnormal, wrong, unnatural, and perverse.\" The ballot measure was defeated, 56 percent to 44 percent. That same year, the Oregon Court of Appeals declared Measure 8 unconstitutional.\nAs a result, the OCA's only statewide victory was nullified.\n\nThe OCA promoted similar measures at the local level, both before and after the 1992 election, but those measures were ultimately invalidated by the Oregon Legislative Assembly. It also promoted similar statewide measures with language softer than that of Measure 9. These included Measures 13 and 19 in 1994, and Measure 9 (sometimes referred to as \"Son of 9\") in 2000.\n\nThe organized opposition to 1992's Measure 9 formed the basis of much of the current LGBT rights movement in Oregon, including the organization Basic Rights Oregon.\nAfter failing to pass Measure 9 in 1992, the OCA turned its attention to passing anti-discrimination bans at the county and municipal level. Couching the debate in terms of forbidding LGBT people from receiving so-called \"special rights,\" the OCA sought not only to block ordinances in these communities but to bar them from spending money to \"promote homosexuality.\"\nThe OCA was successful in passing over two dozen initiatives. However, in 1993 the Oregon Legislative Assembly passed a law prohibiting local governments from considering LGBT rights measures so the ordinances had no legal force.\nThe Oregon Court of Appeals upheld the state law in 1995, and the Oregon Supreme Court denied review. DeParrie v. State, 133 Ore. App. 613, 893 P.2d 541, review denied, 321 Ore. 560, 901 P.2d 858 (1995).\nTwo weeks after the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Romer v. Evans\", the OCA suspended its efforts for a third statewide ballot initiative.\n\nIn 1993, the OCA intervened in Washington state politics by introducing two ballot measures that would have threatened the employability of persons who were LGBT, or were perceived to be. An \"ad hoc\" grassroots movement called Hands Off Washington was organized in opposition to the measures. The Hands Off Washington campaign repelled both efforts.\n\nIn the 1996 U.S. Senate special election to succeed Senator Packwood, the OCA endorsed Gordon Smith over Ron Wyden in the race. Critics faulted Smith for failing to take a strong stand against the OCA, and he was defeated by Wyden. When Smith made a second run for the Senate a few months later after incumbent Mark Hatfield had retired, Mabon ran against Smith. \"The Oregonian\" cited Mabon's candidacy as a key component of Smith's attempt in the second race to establish himself as a centrist, contributing to his victory over Democrat Tom Bruggere.\n\n"}
{"id": "46507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46507", "title": "Party leaders of the United States Senate", "text": "Party leaders of the United States Senate\n\nThe Senate Majority and Minority Leaders are two United States Senators and members of the party leadership of the United States Senate. These leaders serve as the chief Senate spokespeople for the political parties respectively holding the majority and the minority in the United States Senate, and manage and schedule the legislative and executive business of the Senate. They are elected to their positions in the Senate by their respective party caucuses, the Senate Democratic Caucus and the Senate Republican Conference.\n\nBy rule, the Presiding Officer gives the Majority Leader priority in obtaining recognition to speak on the floor of the Senate. The Majority Leader customarily serves as the chief representative of their party in the Senate, and sometimes even in all of Congress if the House of Representatives and thus the office of Speaker of the House is controlled by the opposition party.\n\nThe Assistant Majority and Minority Leaders of the United States Senate (commonly called Senate Majority and Minority Whips) are the second-ranking members of each party's leadership. The main function of the Majority and Minority Whips is to gather votes on major issues. Because they are the second ranking members of the Senate, if there is no floor leader present, the whip may become acting floor leader. Before 1969, the official titles were Majority Whip and Minority Whip.\n\nThe Senate is currently composed of 51 Republicans, 47 Democrats, and 2 independents, both of whom caucus with the Democrats.\n\nThe current leaders are long-time Senators Mitch McConnell (R) from Kentucky and Chuck Schumer (D) from New York. The current Assistant Leaders/Whips are long-time Senators John Cornyn (R) from Texas and Dick Durbin (D) from Illinois.\n\nDemocrats began the practice of electing floor leaders in 1920 while they were in the minority. John W. Kern was a Democratic Senator from Indiana. While the title was not official, he is considered to be the first Senate party leader from 1913 through 1917 (and in turn, the first Senate Democratic Leader), while serving concurrently as Chairman of the Senate Democratic Caucus. In 1925 the majority (at the time) Republicans also adopted this language when Charles Curtis became the first (official) Majority Leader, although his immediate predecessor Henry Cabot Lodge is considered the first (unofficial) Senate Majority Leader.\n\nThe Constitution designates the Vice President of the United States as President of the United States Senate. The Constitution also calls for a President pro tempore to serve as the leader of the body when the President of the Senate (the Vice President) is absent. In practice, neither the Vice President nor the President \"pro tempore\"—customarily the most senior (longest-serving) Senator in the majority party—actually presides over the Senate on a daily basis; that task is given to junior Senators of the majority party. Since the Vice President may be of a different party than the majority and is not a member subject to discipline, the rules of procedure of the Senate give the presiding officer very little power and none beyond the presiding role. For these reasons, it is the Majority Leader who, in practice, manages the Senate. This is in contrast to the House of Representatives where the elected Speaker of the House has a great deal of discretionary power and generally presides over votes on bills.\n\nThe Democratic Party first selected a leader in 1920. The Republican Party first formally designated a leader in 1925.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1230468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230468", "title": "Paul Hawken", "text": "Paul Hawken\n\nPaul Gerard Hawken (born February 8, 1946) is an American environmentalist, entrepreneur, author, and activist.\n\nHawken was born in San Mateo, California, and grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area, where his father worked at UC Berkeley in Library Sciences. He attended UC Berkeley and San Francisco State University. Hawken's work includes founding ecological businesses, writing about impacts of commerce on living systems, and consulting with corporations and governments on economic development, industrial ecology, and environmental policy.\n\nHawken is the Co-founder and Executive Director of Project Drawdown, a non-profit that describes how global warming can be reversed.\n\nHawken was active in the Civil Rights Movement. He currently lives in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nHawken has authored articles, op-eds, and peer-reviewed papers, and has written seven books, including: \"The Next Economy\" (Ballantine 1983), \"Growing a Business\" (Simon and Schuster 1987), \"The Ecology of Commerce\" (HarperCollins 1993), and \"Blessed Unrest\" (Viking 2007).\n\n\"The Ecology of Commerce\" was voted the #1 college text on business and the environment by professors in 67 business schools. The businessman and environmentalist Ray Anderson of Interface, Inc. credited \"The Ecology of Commerce\" with his environmental awakening. He described reading it as a “spear in the chest experience,” after which Anderson started crisscrossing the country with a near-evangelical fervor, telling fellow executives about the need to reduce waste and carbon emissions.\n\n\"\" (Little Brown, September 1999), co-authored with Amory Lovins, popularized the now standard idea of natural capital and direct accounting for ecosystem services. It has been read and referred to by several heads of state including President Bill Clinton who called it one of the five most important books in the world today, stating \"Natural Capitalism basically proves beyond any argument that there are presently available technologies, and those just on the horizon, which will permit us to get richer by cleaning, not by spoiling, the environment.\" \"Natural Capitalism\" has been translated into 14 other languages. Together with \"The Ecology of Commerce\" these books have been described as being \"among the first to point the way towards a sustainable global economy\".\n\n\"Blessed Unrest, How the Largest Movement in the World Came into Being and Why No One Saw It Coming\", published in May 2007, argues that a vast “movement with no name” is forming involving environmental, social justice, and indigenous rights organizations. He conceives of this \"movement\" as developing not by ideology but rather through the identification of what is and is not humane, and has compared it to humanity's collective immune system.\n\n\"Growing a Business\" became the basis of a 17-part PBS series, which Hawken hosted and produced. The program, which explored the challenges and pitfalls of starting and operating socially responsible companies, appeared on television in 115 countries and reached more than 100 million people.\n\n\nHawken's books have been published in more than 50 countries in 30 languages.\n\nHawken founded several companies, starting when he took over a small retail store in Boston in 1967 called Erewhon (after Samuel Butler's 1872 utopian novel) and turned it into the Erewhon Trading Company, a natural-foods wholesaler, and one of the first in the US that relied solely on sustainable agricultural methods. When he left the company in the 1970s, it had over 30,000 acres of organically grown food under contract. He co-founded the Smith & Hawken garden supply company in 1979, a retail and catalog business. In 2009, Hawken founded OneSun, an energy company focused on ultra low-cost solar based on green chemistry and biomimicry.\n\nFrom 1994 up until 1998 Hawken founded and headed up The Natural Step USA. From 1996 to 1998, Hawken was Co-chairman of The Natural Step International. The Natural Step was founded in 1989 by Swedish scientist and medical doctor, Karl-Henrik Robèrt in order to create shared frameworks for understanding sustainable development. Its purpose is to teach and support environmental systems thinking in corporations, cities, governments, unions, and academic institutions through a dialogue process rooted in basic science.\n\nIn 1998, Hawken created the Natural Capital Institute (NCI) located in Sausalito, California. Its main focus was wiser.org, an open-source database of activists and civil society organizations focused on environmental and social justice.\n\nHawken is currently the Executive Director of Project Drawdown which is working towards the drawdown of greenhouse gases to reduce climate change.\n\nIn 1965, Hawken worked with Martin Luther King, Jr.'s staff in Selma, Alabama prior to the historic March on Montgomery. As press coordinator, he registered members of the press, issued credentials, gave dozens of updates and interviews on national radio, and acted as marshal for the final march. That same year, he worked in New Orleans as a staff photographer for the Congress of Racial Equality, focusing on voter registration drives in Bogalusa, Louisiana and the panhandle of Florida, and photographing the Klan in Meridian Mississippi after three civil rights workers were tortured and killed. In Meridian, he was assaulted and seized by Ku Klux Klan members, but escaped due to FBI surveillance and intervention.\n\nPaul Hawken has been awarded six honorary doctorates, and has received the Green Cross Millennium Award for Individual Environmental Leadership presented by Mikhail Gorbachev in 2003\n\nAs a speaker, Hawken has given several hundred talks, including keynote addresses to major associations, companies, government agencies. His University commencement addresses have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "37717290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37717290", "title": "Personal Independence Payment", "text": "Personal Independence Payment\n\nPersonal Independence Payment (abbreviated to PIP and usually pronounced as one word) is a welfare benefit in the United Kingdom that is intended to help with the extra costs of living with a long-term health condition or a disability. \n\nIt is non-means-tested, non-contributory and tax-free; it is not linked to a person's ability to work and it is available equally to people in or out of work. It is not intended to be a substitute for a person's earnings, unlike Employment and Support Allowance (ESA) or ESA's predecessor, Incapacity Benefit.\n\nEligibility for PIP is based upon the practical effects of a condition on a person's life, rather than the condition itself. It is not currently available to children; it can be claimed by adults under the State Pension age, and people already on the benefit will continue to receive it after they retire. PIP and the benefit it replaces are predominantly received by older people, because increasing age is the main risk factor for developing disabling diseases.\n\nPIP was introduced by the Welfare Reform Act 2012 and began to replace Disability Living Allowance (DLA) for new claims from 8 April 2013, by means of an initial pilot in selected areas of north-west and north-east England. A full roll-out across Great Britain was planned for October 2013. However, this roll-out was delayed – primarily because the main contractor, Atos, wanted to ensure that the process was as reliable as possible; also, the assessments took much longer than expected, and assessors were hard to recruit - and as a result ministers announced that the roll-out would happen more gradually than originally planned.\n\nAlthough PIP was expected to cut costs by 20% over the longer term, costs were forecast to rise by £1billion to £15.4billion in 2015-16, partly due to a rise in mental health issues and learning disabilities.\n\nNew rules were introduced in 2017 and many charities say disabled people will be left without support. The Disability Benefits Consortium (DBC) (comprising charities including Parkinson's UK, the MS Society and Mind) claimed about 160,000 people receiving PIP would be affected by proposed changes. Phil Reynolds of the consortium said, \"Across the DBC we have had our helpline and advice services inundated by calls about PIP since it was introduced. Instead of supporting disabled people, the benefits system seems increasingly rigged against them. The whole system needs urgent improvement, in order to accurately assess the support they need. Disabled people cannot afford to wait.\" Charities that represent mental health and learning disability groups claim the changes do not recognise that the costs connected with those conditions are as severe as for other impairments.\n\nClaims will usually but not always be started over the phone. Most people claiming PIP are required to undergo assessments to prove their eligibility for the benefit. Payments are varied according to the severity of disability as decided by the tests and relate to ability to carry out daily living activities and level mobility. Claimants are also required to undergo periodic re-assessments to ensure ongoing eligibility for the benefit; depending on the type of disability, a person may be given a short award of up to two years or longer PIP award which would last for up to five or ten years.\n\nPIP is not available to children under sixteen and PIP claimants must apply before they turn sixty five years old as new PIP claims cannot be made after that age. DLA continues for children, and for existing recipients aged sixty four or over on 8 April 2013; other people currently receiving DLA will be asked to claim PIP instead at some point.\n\nResponsibility for the tests has been outsourced by the DWP to two private companies, Independent Assessment Services (formerly known as Atos Healthcare) in the north of England, London, southern England and Scotland, and Capita Business Services Ltd in central England, Wales and Northern Ireland.\n\nThe PIP Assessment Guide (Updated on 1 May 2016) states: 'It would not be practical for the assessment to take account of the impact of a health condition or impairment on all everyday activities, nor to seek to include all possible areas where extra costs may be generated.'\n\nTo qualify for PIP you must be between 16 and 64 and living in Great Britain and also:\n\nIn April 2013 Iain Duncan Smith, the sponsor of the Welfare Reform Act, expressed his support for the changes to disability benefits brought about by the new law. He was critical of the older system of disability benefits which awarded an allowance to claimants with no further systematic checks to assess if the claimant's condition had improved or worsened. Iain Duncan Smith stated that, by requiring claimants to undergo periodic assessments, the system could be targeted at those most in need whilst preventing payments being made to people who had recovered from a temporary disability.\n\nThe UK disability rights organisation Scope has been critical of PIP and, while it expressed support in principle for assessing claimants more carefully, took the view that the assessment criteria were flawed, would cause undue hardship to disabled people and were too strongly focused on cutting welfare budgets.\n\nPrior to the introduction of PIP, work capability assessments carried out by the private contractor Atos were subjected to critical scrutiny in Parliament following a number of controversial decisions in which disabled individuals were denied benefits and required to look for work, work they could not do due to their disability.\n\nIn June 2014 the Public Accounts Committee expressed the view that the implementation of the PIP scheme had been \"nothing short of a fiasco\", a charge rejected by the Government.\n\nPIP may affect entitlement to disability \"blue badge\" parking permits and the Motability scheme.\n\nThe Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain produced a report about its members experiences of the test in September 2015. 1,780 participated. 42% of those who had a face-to-face assessment said the hidden symptoms of the condition had not been taken into account. More than a third said face-to-face assessments had caused their condition to relapse or deteriorate.\n\nThere are two components of PIP: daily living and mobility needs. Each component can be paid at standard or enhanced rates.\n\nThe PIP daily living component is paid at one of two rates: standard or enhanced. Individuals may be entitled to the daily living component if they need help with things like preparing or eating food, dressing and undressing, or making decisions about money.\n\nTo qualify for the daily living part of PIP, you must need help more than half of the time with things like:\n\n\nThe PIP mobility component is also paid at one of two rates: standard or enhanced. Individuals may be entitled to the mobility component if they need help going out or moving around.\nThe Enhanced rate of the mobility component of PIP can be exchanged for a vehicle or scooter on the Motability Scheme.\n\nOver 50,000 claimants lost their cars because they can walk 20 metres even if they cannot walk 50 metres. Many claimants had the full benefit reinstated on appeal but they lost their cars while they were waiting to appeal and possibly lost their job as well.\n\nPIP is usually awarded for a fixed period, after which the claimant will have to re-apply if necessary. The exception is for the minority of claimants for whom PIP is awarded ongoing as their situation is not expected to improve or get worse.\n\n\nAll awards, including ongoing awards, are subject to review at any time. Campaigners have expressed concern for patients with progressive, incurable conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, motor neurone disease are made to attend reassessments though it is unlikely they will get better and they will probably only get worse. Carol Monaghan said she would challenge four cases of patients with multiple sclerosis being called for reassessment despite their illness worsening. “MS is a progressive condition. They’re never going to be any better than they are at the moment, so they should never be asked to go for a reassessment. Some of these people are still able to walk to a certain extent, so they get themselves in, just about, and then they’re being told, ‘You look fine,’” she said. Phil Reynolds of Parkinson's UK said about a quarter of British people with Parkinson’s lost some or all their benefit after reassessments, but got payments reinstated after appeal. “It’s absolutely crucial that the DWP looks again at the broken PIP assessment to ensure people with long-term conditions get the support they so desperately need, rather than rigging the system against them,” he said. Almost half multiple sclerosis patients claiming PIP must be reassessed inside two years, the MS Society claims. “We’re concerned about the number of people with MS being inappropriately reassessed, especially when we know assessments can cause stress and anxiety, and in some cases exacerbate MS symptoms. With more than 100,000 people living with MS in the UK, the PIP system needs to accurately reflect the realities of living with a fluctuating and progressive condition. Having a disability like MS is hard enough. People should be able to rely on support without fear of having it taken away,” said Laura Wetherly of the MS Society.\n\nRecipients of DLA will continue to receive it until the Department for Work and Pensions invites them to apply for PIP.\n\nFurther information on DLA: Disability Living Allowance.\n\nA toolkit of information for support organisations is available. It contains copies for forms and leaflets, factsheets and guides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7324126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7324126", "title": "Pietro Valpreda", "text": "Pietro Valpreda\n\nPietro Valpreda (22 June 1933 – 6 July 2002) was an Italian anarchist, poet, dancer and novelist. \n\nHe was sentenced to prison on charges of being responsible of the December 1969 Piazza Fontana bombing; in 1987 was acquitted by the Supreme Court of Cassation for lack of evidence.\n\nValpreda came from a poor working-class family in Milan, and, after the end of his formal education, attended dance school. He made his living as a minor dancer on stage. He moved to Rome in 1969 where he frequented the \"Bakunin Circle\", before founding with several friends the \"\".\n\nFollowing the December 12, 1969 Piazza Fontana bombing, carried out in the middle of the \"autunno caldo\" of 1969 (Hot Autumn), he was arrested by the police. A taximan testified having seen him on the Piazza a short time before the bombing, which left 17 dead and 88 injured. His testimony was not considered reliable, even if made in good faith. Another anarchist, Giuseppe Pinelli, was also arrested for the bombing, and died a few days later while he was illegally detained by the police. \nPietro Valpreda's name was splashed across the media as \"the monster of Piazza Fontana\" and the television reporter Bruno Vespa claimed that \"the guilty man has been found\". For three years, he languished in jail, awaiting trial. All over Italy, there were huge pro-Valpreda demonstrations and the trial was moved to the deep south, to avoid \"political interference\". Valpreda published his prison diaries, entitled \"It Is Him\" – the words used by the alleged witness, taxi driver Cornelio Rolandi.\n\nThe criminal trial started at Rome on February 23, 1972: the Italian Judiciary took 15 years to conclude that Valpreda was acquitted for lack of evidence and 29 years to find someone else guilty of the bombing. It was later found out that neofascists were Ordine Nuovo's members.\n\nAs it emerged later, most probably Valpreda was mistaken for , an extremist, close to the neofascist scene, and who was a lookalike of the anarchist.\n\nAfter his release, Valpreda continued to work as a dancer and opened a bar in Milano. He wrote four books with .\n\n"}
{"id": "13993502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13993502", "title": "Prince v. Massachusetts", "text": "Prince v. Massachusetts\n\nPrince v. Massachusetts, 321 U.S. 158 (1944), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that the government has broad authority to regulate the actions and treatment of children. Parental authority is not absolute and can be permissibly restricted if doing so is in the interests of a child's welfare. While children share many of the rights of adults, they face different potential harms from similar activities.\n\nA Jehovah's Witness woman named Sarah Prince was convicted for violating child labor laws. She was the guardian of a nine-year-old girl, Betty M. Simmons, whom she had brought into a downtown area to preach on the streets. The preaching involved distributing literature in exchange for voluntary contributions. The child labor laws that she was charged with violating stipulated that no boys under 12 and no girls under 18 were permitted to sell literature or other goods on public thoroughfares.\n\nThere were three complaints filed against Prince:\n\n\nBoth Prince and her husband were ordained ministers and commonly took their children out to distribute religious literature. Prince argued that the state's child labor laws violated her Fourteenth Amendment rights to exercise her religion and her equal protection rights, in particular because the children themselves were ministers of their religion as well.\n\nIn a 5–4 decision, with Justice Rutledge writing the majority opinion, the Supreme Court upheld the Massachusetts laws restricting the abilities of children to sell religious literature. The decision asserted that the government has broad authority to regulate the actions and treatment of children. Parental authority is not absolute and can be permissibly restricted if doing so is in the interests of a child's welfare. While children share many of the rights of adults, they face different potential harms from similar activities.\n\nOne issue that the Court considered was whether a parent's presence makes it permissible for the child to engage in actions that would otherwise be prohibited. Noting that the dangers would still exist, the Court decided that the state was free to legislate against this activity, even if adults were allowed to engage in them. The opinion noted:\n\nThe family itself is not beyond regulation in the public interest, as against a claim of religious liberty. And neither the rights of religion nor the rights of parenthood are beyond limitation…. The right to practice religion freely does not include the right to expose the community or the child to communicable disease or the latter to ill-health or death...\nParents may be free to become martyrs themselves. But it does not follow they are free, in identical circumstances, to make martyrs of their children before they have reached the age of full and legal discretion when they can make that choice for themselves. Massachusetts has determined that an absolute prohibition, though one limited to streets and public places and to the incidental uses proscribed, is necessary to accomplish its legitimate objectives. Its power to attain them is broad enough to reach these peripheral instances in which the parent's supervision may reduce but cannot eliminate entirely the ill effects of the prohibited conduct. We think that with reference to the public proclaiming of religion, upon the streets and in other similar public places, the power of the state to control the conduct of children reaches beyond the scope of its authority over adults, as is true in the case of other freedoms, and the rightful boundary of its power has not been crossed in this case.\nJustice Frank Murphy dissented: \"Religious freedom is too sacred a right to be restricted or prohibited in any degree without convincing proof that a legitimate interest of the state is in grave danger.\"\n\nJustice Robert H. Jackson, joined by Justices Owen Roberts and Felix Frankfurter, also dissented. They agreed with the judgment of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2055335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2055335", "title": "Proletkult", "text": "Proletkult\n\nProletkult (), a portmanteau of the Russian words \"proletarskaya kultura\" (proletarian culture), was an experimental Soviet artistic institution that arose in conjunction with the Russian Revolution of 1917. This organization, a federation of local cultural societies and avant-garde artists, was most prominent in the visual, literary, and dramatic fields. Proletkult aspired to radically modify existing artistic forms by creating a new, revolutionary working-class aesthetic, which drew its inspiration from the construction of modern industrial society in backward, agrarian Russia.\n\nAlthough funded by the People's Commissariat for Education of Soviet Russia, the Proletkult organization sought autonomy from state control, a demand which brought it into conflict with the Communist Party hierarchy and the Soviet state bureaucracy. Some top party leaders, such as V.I. Lenin, sought to concentrate state funding on the basic education of the working class rather than on whimsical artistic endeavors. He and others also saw in Proletkult a hotbed of bourgeois intellectuals and potential political oppositionists.\n\nAt its peak in 1920, Proletkult had 84,000 members actively enrolled in about 300 local studios, clubs, and factory groups, with an additional 500,000 members participating in its activities on a more casual basis.\n\nThe earliest roots of the Proletarian Culture movement, better known as Proletkult, are found in the aftermath of the failed 1905-1907 Revolution against Nicholas II of Russia. The censorship apparatus of the Tsarist regime had stumbled briefly during the upheaval, broadening horizons, but the revolution had ultimately failed, resulting in dissatisfaction and second-guessing, even within Bolshevik Party ranks.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Tsar's reassertion of authority a radical political tendency known as the \"Left Bolsheviks\" emerged, stating their case in opposition to party leader Lenin. This group, which included such luminaries as philosophers Alexander Bogdanov and Anatoly Lunacharsky and writer Maxim Gorky, argued that the intelligentsia-dominated Bolsheviks must begin following more inclusive tactics and working to develop more working class political activists to assume leadership roles in the next round of anti-Tsarist revolution.\n\nAmong the Left Bolsheviks, Anatoly Lunacharsky in particular had been intrigued with the possibility of making use of art as a means to inspire revolutionary political action. In addition, together with the celebrated Gorky, Lunacharsky hoped to found a \"human religion\" around the idea of socialism, motivating individuals to serve a greater good outside of their own narrow self-interests.\n\nWorking along similar lines simultaneously was Lunacharsky's brother-in-law Bogdanov, who even in 1904 had published a weighty philosophical tome called \"Empiriomonism\" which attempted to integrate the ideas of non-Marxist thinkers Ernst Mach and Richard Avenarius into the socialist edifice. (Lunacharsky had studied under Avenarius in Zurich and was responsible for introducing Bogdanov to his ideas.) Bogdanov believed that the socialist society of the future would require forging a fundamentally new perspective of the role of science, ethics, and art with respect to the individual and the state.\n\nTogether all these ideas of Bogdanov, Lunacharsky, Gorky, and their co-thinkers came to be known in the language of the day as \"god-building\" \"(bogostroitel'stvo).\"\n\nThese ideas did not exist in a vacuum; there was a political component as well. During the period between the failure of the 1905 revolution and the outbreak of World War I, Alexander Bogdanov stood as the chief rival to Lenin for leadership of the Bolshevik party.\n\nTo the intellectually rigid Lenin, Bogdanov was not only a political rival, but also a positive threat to the ideology of Marxism. Lenin saw Bogdanov and the \"god-building\" movement with which he was associated as purveyors of a reborn philosophical idealism that stood in diametrical opposition to the fundamental materialist foundation of Marxism. So disturbed was Lenin that he spent much of 1908 combing more than 200 books to pen a thick polemical volume in reply — \"Materialism and Empirio-Criticism: Critical Comments on a Reactionary Philosophy.\"\n\nLenin ultimately emerged triumphant in the struggle for hegemony of the Bolshevik faction. Relations between them in Western European exile remained tense. During the first decade of the 20th Century Bogdanov wrote two works of utopian science fiction about socialist societies on Mars, both of which were rejected by Lenin as attempts to smuggle \"Machist idealism\" into the radical movement. The second of these, a book called \"Engineer Menni\" (1913), was pronounced by Lenin to be \"so vague that neither a worker nor a stupid editor at \"Pravda\" [a rival publication] could understand it.\" In 1913 Bogdanov, a student of the Taylor system of factory work-flow rationalization, published a massive work on the topic, \"General Organizational Science,\" which Lenin liked no better.\n\nThe pair went their separate ways, with Bogdanov dropping out of radical politics at the end of 1913, returning home with his wife to Moscow. He would later be reinvigorated by the course of events to become a leading figure in the Moscow Proletkult organization — a fact which emphasizes the tension between that organization and state authorities.\n\nThe February Revolution of 1917 which overthrew the Tsarist regime came comparatively easily. So, too, did the October Revolution which followed, events which overthrew the Russian Provisional Government of Alexander Kerensky and brought Lenin and the Bolsheviks to the seat of power. The Russian Civil War was another matter altogether — a long and brutal struggle which strained every sinew.\n\nThe radical intelligentsia of Russia was mobilized by these events. Anatoly Lunacharsky, who had briefly broken with Lenin and the Bolshevik Party to become a newspaper correspondent in France and Italy, returned to Russia in May 1917 and rejoined the party in August. Following the October Revolution, Lunacharsky was appointed Commissar of Education of the new regime.\n\nLunacharsky's factional ally, Alexander Bogdanov, remained sharply critical of Lenin and his political tactics and never rejoined the Communist Party, however. Instead he served at the front as a doctor during World War I, returning home to Moscow in 1917 and becoming involved there as a founder of the Proletarian Culture organization, Proletkult.\n\nThe aim of unifying the cultural and educational activities of the Russian labour movements first occurred at the Agitation Collegium of the Executive Committee of the Petrograd Soviet which met on 19 July 1917 with 120 participants. It was attended by many different currents, and when the Menshevik Dementiev suggested that the meeting just be confined to public lectures and that the Bolsheviks should be excluded, but this was soundly rejected. Consequently, the Central Council of Factory Committees was instructed to work with the Petrograd Soviet to organise a second conference of \"proletarian cultural-educational organizations\" to bring them together in a centralized organization. A first conference of these groups was held in Petrograd from October 16 to 19, 1917 . The conclave was called by Lunacharsky in his role as head of the Cultural-Educational Commission of the Petrograd Bolshevik organization and was attended by 208 delegates representing Petrograd trade unions, factory committees, army and youth groups, city and regional dumas, as well as the Petrograd Committee of the Bolshevik and Socialist-Revolutionary parties.\n\nThis October 1917 conference elected a Central Committee of Proletarian Cultural-Educational Organizations of Petrograd which included among its members Lunacharsky, Lenin's wife Nadezhda Krupskaya, talented young journalist Larisa Reisner, and a long-time Vpered associate of Bogdanov and Lunacharsky named Fedor Kalinin, among others. Also playing a key role was Pavel Lebedev-Polianskii, another former member of Bogdanov and Lunacharsky's émigré political group. Many of these would be catapulted into leading roles in the People's Commissariat of Education following the Bolshevik seizure of power which followed less than two weeks later.\n\nThe October Revolution led to a marked increase in the number of new cultural organizations and informal groups. Clubs and cultural societies sprung up affiliated with newly empowered factories, unions, cooperatives, and workers' and soldiers' councils, in addition to similar groups attached to more formal institutions such as the Red Army, the Communist Party, and its youth section. The new government of Soviet Russia was quick to understand that these rapidly proliferating clubs and societies offered a potentially powerful vehicle for the spread of the radical political, economic, and social theories it favored.\n\nThe chief cultural authority of the Soviet state was its People's Commissariat of Education (Narkompros), a bureaucratic apparatus which quickly came to include no fewer than 17 different departments. Headed by Anatoly Lunacharsky, this organization sought to expand adult literacy and to establish a broad and balanced general school curricula, in opposition to pressure from the trade unions and the Supreme Council of National Economy, which sought to give preference to vocational education. The as-yet loosely organized Proletkult movement emerged as another potential competitor to the primacy of Narkompros.\n\nThis confusing welter of competing institutions and organizations was by no means unique to the cultural field, as historian Lynn Mally has noted:\n\"All early Soviet institutions struggled against what was called 'parallelism,' the duplication of services by competing bureaucratic systems. The revolution raised difficult questions about governmental organization that were only slowly answered during the first years of the regime. Political activists disputed the authority of the central state, the role of the Communist Party within it, and the influence national agencies should wield over local groups. Altercations over scarce resources and institutional authority were intertwined with theoretical debates over the ideal structure of the new policy.\"\n\nMoreover, in the early revolutionary period control over local institutions by the central government of the Soviet state was weak, with factory workers often ignoring their trade unions and teachers the curriculum instructions of central authorities. In this political environment any centrally-devised scheme for a division of authority between Narkompros and the federated artistic societies of Proletkult remained largely a theoretical exercise. In the early days of the Bolshevik regime the local apparatus of Proletkult retained the most powerful hand.\n\nWith its adherent Anatoly Lunacharsky at the helm of Narkompros, the Proletkult movement had an important patron with considerable influence over state policy and the purse. This did not mean an easy relationship between these institutions, however. Early in 1918 leaders of Petrograd Proletkult refused to cooperate with an effort by Narkompros to form a citywide theatre organization, declaring their refusal to work with non-proletarian theatre groups.\n\nMoscow Proletkult, in which Alexander Bogdanov played a leading role, attempted to extend its independent sphere of control even further than the Petrograd organization, addressing questions of food distribution, hygiene, vocational education, and issuing a call for establishment of a proletarian university at its founding convention in February 1918. Some hardliners in the Proletkult organization even insisted that Proletkult be recognized as the \"ideological leader of all public education and enlightenment.\"\n\nUltimately, however, the vision of Proletkult as the rival and guiding light of Narkompros fell by the wayside, subdued by the Proletkult's financial reliance on the Commissariat for operational funding. Proletkult received a budget of 9.2 million gold rubles for the first half of 1918 — nearly one-third of the entire budget for Narkompros's Adult Educational Division. Requisitioned buildings were put to the organization's use, with the Petrograd organization receiving a large and posh facility located on one of the city's main thoroughfares, Nevsky Prospect — the name of which was actually changed to \"Proletkult Street\" \"(Ulitsa Proletkul'ta)\" in the organization's honor.\n\nWhile the Proletkult movement began as independent groups in Petrograd (October 1917) and Moscow (February 1918), it was not long before the group's patrons in the Soviet state intervened to help forge a national organization. The Soviet government itself moved from Petrograd to Moscow in March 1918 and the center of Proletkult's own organizational gravity shifted simultaneously.\n\nLines became blurred between the Proletkult organization and the Division for Proletarian Culture of the People's Commissariat of Education, headed by Proletkult activist Fyodor Kalinin. While the organization retained its staunch supporters in the Narkompros apparatus seeking to coordinate activities, it also contained no small number of activists like Alexander Bogdanov who tried to promote the organization as an independent cultural institution with a homogeneous working class constituency.\n\nIn September 1918 the first national conference of Proletkult was convened in Moscow, including 330 delegates and 234 guests from local organizations from around Soviet Russia. While no delegate list has survived, the stenogram of the conference indicates that the bulk of attendees hailed from trade unions, factory organizations, cooperatives, and workers' clubs. Delegates were split between those favoring an autonomous and leading role for the organization in general education in Soviet society and those who favored a more narrow focus for the group as a subordinate part of the Narkompros bureaucracy.\n\nWhile those favoring autonomy were in the majority at the first national conference, the ongoing problem of organizational finance remained a real one, as historian Lynn Mally has observed:\n\"Although the Proletkult was autonomous, it still expected Narkompros to foot the bills. The government would supply the central Proletkult with a subsidy, to be distributed among provincial affiliates. But because financial dependence on the state clearly contradicted the organization's claims to independence, the central leaders held out the hope that their affiliates would soon discover their own means of support.\"\n\nProletkult and its desire for autonomy also had another powerful patron in the person of Nikolai Bukharin, editor of \"Pravda.\" Bukharin provided favorable coverage for Proletkult during the organization's formative period, welcoming the idea that the group represented a \"laboratory of pure proletarian ideology\" with a legitimate claim to independence from Soviet governmental control.\n\nProletkult made use of different organizational forms. In large industrial cities, the organization set up an elaborate bureaucratic apparatus resembling that of Narkompros. Moscow Proletkult, for example, had departments for literary publishing, theatre, music, art, and clubs. In addition to this central bureaucracy, Proletkult established factory cells attached to the highly concentrated mills and manufacturing facilities. Finally, Proletkult established \"studios\" — independent facilities in which workers learned and developed the techniques of the various arts.\n\nNarkompros, for its part, sought to influence Proletkult to concentrate its efforts upon the expansion of the network of studios. In April 1919 People's Commissar of Education Lunacharsky declared that Proletkult \"should concentrate all its attention on studio work, on the discovery and encouragement of original talent among the workers, on the creation of circles of writers, artists, and all kinds of young scholars from the working class...\"\n\nProletkult and its studios and clubs gained a certain measure of popularity among a broad segment of the urban Russian population, particularly factory workers. By the end of 1918 the organization counted 147 local affiliates, although the actual number of functioning units was probably somewhat fewer.\n\nAt the peak of the organization's strength in 1920, Proletkult claimed a total of 84,000 members in 300 local groups, with an additional 500,000 more casual followers.\n\nA total of 15 different Proletkult periodicals were produced over the course of the organization's short existence, including most importantly \"Proletarskaia kultura\" (Proletarian Culture — 1918 to 1921) and \"Gorn\" (Furnace — 1918 to 1923).\n\nHistorically the relationship between the Russian liberal intelligentsia and the working class was that of teacher and student. This situation presumed a \"higher\" level of culture on the part of the aristocratic teachers — an accepted premise of the Bolsheviks themselves during the pre-revolutionary period.\n\nUnder Marxist theory, however, culture was conceived as a part of the superstructure associated with the dominant class in society — in the Russian instance, that of the bourgeoisie. Under a workers' state, some Marxist theoreticians believed, the new proletarian ruling class would develop its own distinct class culture to supplant the former culture of the old ruling order. Proletkult was seen as a primary vehicle for the development of this new \"proletarian culture.\"\n\nThe nature and function of Proletkult was described by Platon Kerzhentsev, one of the movement's top leaders in 1919:\n\"The task of the 'Proletkults' is the development of an independent proletarian spiritual culture, including all areas of the human spirit — science, art, and everyday life. The new socialist epoch must produce a new culture, the foundations of which are already being laid. This culture will be the fruit of the creative efforts of the working class and will be entirely independent. Work on behalf of proletarian culture should stand on a par with the political and economic struggle of the working class.\n\n\"But in creating its own culture, the working class by no means should reject the rich cultural heritage of the past, the material and spiritual achievements, made by classes which are alien and hostile to the proletariat. The proletarian must look it over critically, choose what is of value, elucidate it with his own point of view, use it with a view to producing his own culture. * * *\n\n\"This work on a new culture ought to proceed along a completely independent path. 'Proletkults' should be class-restricted, workers' organizations, completely autonomous in their activities.\"\n\nProletkult's theorists generally espoused a hardline economic determinism, arguing that only purely working class organizations were capable of advancing the cause of the dictatorship of the proletariat. An early editorial from the official Proletkult journal \"Proletarskaia Kultura\" (Proletarian Culture) demanded that \"the proletariat start right now, immediately, to create its own \"socialist forms of thought, feeling, and daily life,\" independent of alliances or combinations of political forces.\"\n\nIn the view of Alexander Bogdanov and other Proletkult theoreticians, the arts were not the province of a specially gifted elite, but rather were the physical output of individuals with a set of learned skills. All that was required, it was assumed, was for one to study basic artistic technique in a very few lessons, after which anyone was capable of becoming a proletarian artist. The movement by Proletkult to establish a network of studios in which workers could enroll was seen as an essential part of training this new cohort of proletarian artists.\n\nDespite the organization's rhetoric about its proletarian exclusivity, however, the movement was guided by intellectuals throughout its entire brief history, with its efforts to promote workers from the bench to leadership positions largely unsuccessful.\n\nProletkult expended great energy in attempting to launch a wave of worker-poets, with only limited artistic success. The insistence upon developing new poets of questionable talent led to a split of the Proletkult in 1919, when a large group of young writers, most of whom were poets, broke from the organization due to what they believed to be a stifling of individual creative talent.\n\nThese defectors from Proletkult initially formed a small, elite organization called Kuznitza (The Forge) before again launching a new mass organization known as the All-Russian Association of Proletarian Writers (VAPP) a year later.\n\nThe Proletkult organizations of Petrograd and Moscow controlled their own dramatic theatrical network, including under its umbrella a number of smaller city clubs maintaining their own theatrical studios. Petrograd Proletkult opened a large central studio early in 1918 which staged a number of new and experimental works with a view to inspiring similar performances in other amateur theaters around the city. Moscow Proletkult opened its own central theater several months later.\n\nProletkult constituted the leading center of a radical minority within the theatrical community of the day which aspired to promote so-called \"proletarian theater.\" Development of this new form was defined in one early conference resolution as \"the task of workers themselves, along with those peasants who are willing to accept their ideology.\" Conventional modes of performance were discouraged, in favor of unconventional stagings designed to promote \"mass action\" — including public processions, festivals, and social dramas.\n\nArtists in the Proletkult movement, while not by any means a homogeneous bloc, were influenced to a great extent by the iconoclasm, technological orientation, and revolutionary enthusiasm bound up in the thematic movements of the day, futurism and constructivism. Despite lip service paid to classical forms of poetry, drama, writing, sculpture, and painting, strong encouragement was given to the use of new techniques and forms in so-called \"proletarian art,\" including the use of photography, cinematography, and collage.\n\nThis commitment to experimentalism drew the fire of those party leaders who preferred more classical modes of artistic expression. Petrograd Communist Party leader Grigory Zinoviev took the lead at a conference of \"proletarian writers\" held in that city in the fall of 1919, declaring that while previously \"we allowed the most nonsensical futurism to get a reputation almost as the official school of Communist art\" and let \"doubtful elements attach themselves to our Proletkults.\" it was henceforth \"time to put an end to this,\" Zinoviev demanded.\n\nAlso among those critical of the Proletkult movement and its vision to create a wholly new proletarian culture was top Soviet party leader Vladimir Lenin. At a public speech in May 1919 Lenin declared any notions of so-called \"proletarian culture\" to be \"fantasies\" which he opposed with \"ruthless hostility.\"\n\nMore specifically, Lenin had profound misgivings about the entire institution of Proletkult, viewing it as (in historian Sheila Fitzpatrick's words) \"an organization where futurists, idealists, and other undesirable bourgeois artists and intellectuals addled the minds of workers who needed basic education and culture...\" Lenin also may have had political misgivings about the organization as a potential base of power for his long-time rival Alexander Bogdanov or for ultra-radical \"Left Communists\" and the syndicalist dissidents who comprised the Workers' Opposition.\n\nBy the fall of 1920 it became increasingly clear that the Soviet regime would emerge from the Russian Civil War victorious. With fall of the Whites, a common enemy which united disparate factions around the Soviet banner, much unity was loosened. Dissident groups such as the so-called Workers' Opposition and the Democratic Centralists emerged in the Communist Party, widespread dissatisfaction among the peasantry over forced grain requisitioning resulted in isolated uprisings. All of these factors prompted a wave of debate about the institutions that had sprung up in Soviet society during wartime, including Proletkult.\n\nThroughout its short history, Proletkult had sought both autonomy from state control and hegemony in the cultural field. This had created a substantial number of critics and rivals. These included leaders of the Soviet trade union movement, who saw the management of workers' cultural opportunities as part of their own purview; local Communist Party committees, which sought centralization under their own direction rather than a hode-podge of autonomous civic institutions; and the People's Commissariat of Education (Narkompros), which believed its own mission included the cultural training of the working class. Of these, Narkompros proved the most outspoken and unyielding in its criticism.\n\nEver since 1918 Nadezhda Krupskaya — the wife of Vladimir Lenin — had sought to reign in Proletkult and integrate it under the agency in which she herself played a leading role, the Adult Education Division of Narkompros. A May 1919 conference of adult education workers had, spurred on by Krupskaya, determined that Proletkult was an adult education agency owing to its studio system, and therefore rightfully part of Narkompros.\n\nBureaucratic wrangling between top leaders of Proletkult and the Adult Education Division of Narkompros had produced a working agreement in the summer of 1919 bringing Proletkult formally under the auspices of the latter, albeit with its own separate budget. This proved, however, to be a stop-gap and institutional conflict remained.\n\nProletkult leaders subsequently made an effort to expand their movement on an international basis at the 2nd World Congress of the Communist International in August 1920, founding Kultintern, an international organization headed by Anatoly Lunacharsky. The group's grandiose vision and practical efforts to expand the Proletkult movement globally was particularly concerning to Lenin, himself a man of staid and traditional cultural tastes who had already come to see Proletkult as utopian and wasteful.\n\nSpurred to action by Lenin, in the fall of 1920 the governing Central Committee of the Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks) began to take an active interest in the relationship of Proletkult with other Soviet institutions for the first time. Lenin sought and obtained information from M.N. Pokrovsky, second in command at Narkompros, and top Proletkult leaders about the organization's budget and semi-independent status and pushed through a decision to absorb Proletkult into Narkompros to end the situation of parallelism once and for all.\n\nThe already scheduled National Congress of Proletkult, held in Moscow from October 5 to 12, 1920, was to be the occasion for the announcement. While Lunacharsky, head of Narkompros but a patron of Proletkult and its interests, dragged his feet on the merger, the congress eventually — following long debate and a stern appeal to party discipline — formally approved the Central Committee's decision to directly integrate Proletkult into Narkompros.\n\nThe integration was not a smooth one, however, and Proletkult activists fought to the last ditch to retain organizational autonomy even within Narkompros. The Central Committee reacted with a scathing decree denouncing Proletkult that was published in \"Pravda\" on December 1, 1920.\n\nDespite its formal termination as an organization, the Proletkult movement continued to influence and inform early Soviet culture. Historian Peter Kenez has noted the heavy influence of the Proletkult ethic in the work of pioneer Soviet filmmaker Sergei Eisenstein, director of the classic films \"Strike\" (1925), \"The Battleship Potemkin\" (1926), and \"\" (1927):\n\"The intellectual content of [Eisenstein's] early films was profoundly influenced by his earlier association with Proletkult, a complex politicocultural movement that reached the height of its influence during the revolutionary period... [Its leaders] argued that the new, socialist culture would be profoundly different from what it replaced. In their view there could be no accommodation with the old world; the proletariat on the basis of its experience would create a new culture that would reflect the spirit of the collective. It followed that the new art had to emphasize not the accomplishments of individuals but those of the workers and peasants. Eisenstein was attracted to this movement because it justified the necessity of a complete break with the art of the 'bourgeois' world. All of his early films expressed, though in his own idiom, the ideology of Proletkult.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32582806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32582806", "title": "Reichserbhofgesetz", "text": "Reichserbhofgesetz\n\nThe Reichserbhofgesetz(hereditary) (Eng: land heritage law or the State Hereditary Farm Law of 1933) was a Nazi law to implement principles of blood and soil, stating that its aim was to: \"preserve the farming community as the blood-source of the German people\" (\"Das Bauerntum als Blutquelle des deutschen Volkes erhalten\"). A Greater Aryan certificate was required to receive its benefits, similar to the requirements for becoming a member of the Nazi Party (NSDAP).\n\nSelected lands were declared hereditary, as an \"Erbhof\", to pass from father to son, and could not be mortgaged or alienated, and only these farmers were entitled to call themselves \"Bauern\" or \"farmer peasant\", a term the Nazis attempted to refurbish from a neutral or even pejorative to a positive term. Regional custom was only allowed to decide whether the eldest or the youngest son was to be the heir. In areas where no particular custom prevailed, the youngest son was to be the heir. Still, the eldest son inherited the farm in most cases during the Third Reich Priority was given to the patriline, so that if there were no sons, the brothers and brothers' sons of the deceased peasant had precedence over the peasant's own daughters. As peasants appeared in Nazi ideology as a source of economics and racial stability, the law was implemented to protect them from the forces of modernization.\n\nOnly about 35% of all farming units were covered by it. In theory, any farm of 7.5 to 125 hectares (19–309 acres) could be declared \"Erbhof\", as the size needed to maintain a family and act as a productive unit; larger farms would have to be subdivided.\n\nRichard Walther Darré, in accordance with his strong \"blood and soil\" beliefs, did much to promote it as the Reich Minister of Food and Agriculture and \"Reichsbauernführer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20522910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20522910", "title": "Romanian Socialist Party (1992–2015)", "text": "Romanian Socialist Party (1992–2015)\n\nThe Romanian Socialist Party () was a minor Romanian political party with a socialist ideology. It was briefly represented in the Romanian Parliament after two deputies, elected on the Greater Romania Party list, joined the organisation in 2002. The two MPs would leave the party the following year in order to create the United Socialist Party. In the 2008 elections, it won 0.01% of the vote in the Chamber of Deputies and 0.02% in the Senate. In 2015 the party name was taken over by the Socialist Alliance Party after the Bucharest Tribunal wrote the party out of the official register of political parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "33775997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33775997", "title": "Rule of thirds (military)", "text": "Rule of thirds (military)\n\nThe rule of thirds is a rule of thumb used when planning for the deployment and usage of a military organisation, according to which one third of the total military forces involved should be available for operations, one third should be preparing for operations and the final third, having been on operations, should be recuperating. Ideally, units and individuals regularly will rotate through each of the three phases.\n\nDifferent nations and militaries will vary the rule of thirds according to their own financial and manpower situations. \n\nAt times of financial constraint, rather than increasing the total number of forces, one temptation of politicians is to attempt to increase available manpower by folding together the preparation and recuperation phases, creating a \"rule of halves\". A rule of halves was actually the basis of British Army planning during the British Empire, with each regiment consisting of a pair of battalions which would take turns recruiting, training and recuperating in the UK, and then being deployed overseas. However, because of the nature of transportation in the past, each of the phases at that time were longer (being a year or more) than is currently the case. Departing from a three-phase rotation for short periods is not impossible, but prolonged deployment is detrimental both to the psychological health of service personnel, and to the operational life of equipment, leading to an unwanted turnover in personnel, and to premature failure of equipment. For those military operations that are able to afford it, going to a four- or five-phase rotation schedule actually increases a nation's ability to conduct sustained military operations, even though it may appear that the majority of its servicemen are not doing anything.\n\nAs a critical cornerstone of their defence policies, the British and French submarine-launched ballistic missile forces uses a \"rule of fourths\", where one submarine is on patrol, one is preparing to go on patrol, one returns from patrol, and the fourth is in maintenance. This force structure ensures that they will always have at least one ballistic missile boat on patrol at any one time.\n\nThe United States, in order to keep the maximum number of its submarines available at any one time, assigns two crews, called gold and blue, to each of its submarines, with the submarines themselves having a turnaround time that is as short as possible. However, the United States is one of the few nations that can afford both the manpower costs of doing this, while still being able to ensure that enough boats are in service to have the ability regularly to stagger boats out for deep maintenance without appreciably affecting the total number available.\n"}
{"id": "1192711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192711", "title": "Self-censorship", "text": "Self-censorship\n\nSelf-censorship is the act of censoring or classifying one's own discourse. This is done out of fear of, or deference to, the sensibilities or preferences (actual or perceived) of others and without overt pressure from any specific party or institution of authority. Self-censorship is often practiced by film producers, film directors, publishers, news anchors, journalists, musicians, and other kinds of authors including individuals who use social media.\n\nIn authoritarian countries, creators of artworks may remove material that their government might find controversial for fear of sanction by their governments. In pluralistic capitalist countries, repressive judicial lawmaking can also cause widespread \"rivercrabbing\" of Western media.\n\nSelf-censorship can also occur in order to conform to the expectations of the market. For example, the editor of a periodical may consciously or unconsciously avoid topics that will anger advertisers, customers, or the owners in order to protect her or his livelihood either directly (i.e., fear of losing his job) or indirectly (e.g., a belief that a book will be more profitable if it does not contain offensive material). This phenomenon is referred to as soft censorship.\n\nArticle 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights guarantees freedom of speech from all forms of censorship. Article 19 explicitly states that “everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.”\n\nPeople often communicate to affirm one’s identity and sense of belonging.  People may express their opinions or withhold their opinions due to the fear of exclusion or unpopularity.  Shared social norms and beliefs create a sense of belonging, but they can also create a suppression of expression in order to comply or belong.  People may adjust their beliefs or opinions to go along with the majority attitude.  There are different factors that contribute to self-censorship such as gender, age, education, political interests and media exposure.  For some, the reason for their change in beliefs and opinions are rooted in fear of isolation and exclusion.  The risk of negative reactions is greater than expressing one’s true beliefs. \n\nJournalists often censor themselves due to threats against them or their interests from another party, editorial instructions from their supervisor[s], perceived conflicts of interest with a media organization's economic sponsors, advertisers or shareholders, etc.). Self-censorship occurs when journalists deliberately manipulate their expression out of fear of, or deference to, the sensibilities or preferences (actual or perceived) of others and without overt pressure from any specific party or institution of authority. Self-censorship of journalists is most pervasive in societies where governments have official media censorship policies and where journalists will be jailed, fined, or simply lose their job if they do not follow the censorship rules.\nOrganizations such as (Media Matters for America, Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, \"Democracy Now!\", and the American Civil Liberties Union) have raised concerns about news broadcasting stations, particularly Fox News, censoring their own content to be less controversial when reporting on certain types of issues such as the War on Terror.\n\nIn their book \"Manufacturing Consent\" (1988), Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman argue that corporate ownership of news media very strongly encourages systematic self-censorship owing to market forces. In this argument, even with supposedly liberal media, bias and (often unconscious) self-censorship is evident in the selection and omission of news stories, and the framing of acceptable discussion, in line with the interests of the corporations owning those media.\n\nThe journalists have actively sought censorship advice from military authorities in order to prevent the inadvertent revelation of military secrets. In 2009, \"The New York Times\" succeeded in suppressing news of a reporter's abduction by militants in Afghanistan for seven months until his escape from captivity in order to 'reduce danger to the reporter and other hostages'.\n\nJournalists have sometimes self-censored publications of news stories out of concern for the safety of people involved. Jean Pelletier, the Washington D.C. correspondent for the Montreal \"La Presse\" newspaper, uncovered a covert attempt by the Canadian government to smuggle US diplomats out of Iran during the Iranian Hostage Crisis before the \"Canadian Caper\" had reached its conclusion. In order to preserve the safety of those involved, he refused to allow the paper to publish the story until the hostages had left Iran, despite the considerable news value to the paper and writer.\n\nSelf-censorship became a quite frequent practice in Russia after 2000's government take-overs and consolidation of media, further deepened after 2014-2015 laws on 'undesirable organisations'.\n\nAs for Europe, threats to media freedom have shown a significant increase in recent years. Journalists and whistleblowers have experienced physical and psychological intimidation and threats. Self-censorship is one of the major consequences of such circumstances.\n\nA study published in 2017 by the Council of Europe found that in the period 2014-2016 that 40% of journalists involved in the survey experienced some kind of unwarranted interference, in particular psychological violence, including slandering and smear campaigning, cyberbulling. Other forms of unwarranted interference include intimidation by interest groups, threats with force, intimidation by political groups, targeted surveillance, intimidation by the police, etc. In terms of geography, cases of physical assault were more common in the South Caucasus, followed by Turkey, but were present in othe region as well.\n\nJames Gomez writes about this phenomenon in his book \"Self-Censorship: Singapore's Shame\". He argues that citizens and foreigners in Singapore practice self-censorship that results in the censorship of others when it comes to political matters.\n\nReligious affiliation is a topic that many occupational fields and areas that may be a source of self-censorship.  One particular area is psychology.  From the origins of psychology, the field has frequently viewed religion with distrust. Psychologists and therapists often refrain from claiming to be part of any religion believing in the possibility that any expressions of any devout faith may be viewed as markers for mental illness or distress.  A 2013 survey from the American Psychological Association (APA) found that “relative to the general population, psychologists were more than twice likely to claim no religion, three times more likely to describe religion as unimportant in their lives, and five times more likely to deny belief in God.”\n\nIn a religious movement it is more common among fundamentalist believers like Wahhabism, Islamism, Calvinism, and Hasidic Judaism.\n\nSelf-censorship in scientific publications that have been criticized as politically motivated include scientists under the Third Reich withholding findings that disagreed with the commonly held beliefs in differences between races, or the refusal of these scientists under Hitler to support General Relativity (which got the reputation as \"Jewish science\"). More recently, certain scientists have withheld their findings related to climate changes caused by pollution and to endangered species.\n\nProfessor Heinz Klatt argues that hate laws, speech codes, cowardice, and political correctness have resulted in an intellectually repressive atmosphere in modern-day academic circles, with widespread self-censorship on topics like homosexuality, (learning) disabilities, Islam, and genetic differences between human races and sexes.\n\nIn the early days of atomic physics, it was realized that discoveries regarding nuclear fission and the chain reaction might be used for both beneficial and harmful purposes - on the one hand, such discoveries could have important applications for medicine and energy production, however on the other hand, they might also lead to the production of unprecedented weapons of mass destruction. Leo Szilard argues that if dangerous discoveries were kept secret, the development and use of such weapons might be avoided. Similar to nuclear fission findings in the field of medicine and biotechnology could facilitate production of biological weapons of mass destruction. In 2003 members of the Journal Editors and Authors Group, 32 leading journal editors, perceived the threat from biological warfare as sufficiently high to warrant a system of self-censorship on the public dissemination of certain aspects of their community's research. The statement agreed on declared:\nWe recognize that the prospect of bioterrorism has raised legitimate concerns about the potential abuse of published information… We are committed to dealing responsibly and effectively with safety and security issues that may be raised by papers submitted for publication, and to increasing our capacity to identify such issues as they arise…[O]n occasions an editor may conclude that the potential harm of publication outweighs the potential societal benefits… the paper should be modified, or not be published…\n\nTaste and decency are other areas in which questions are often raised regarding self-censorship. Art or journalism involving images or footage of murder, terrorism, war and may cause complaints as to the purpose to which they are put. Curators and editors will frequently censor these images to avoid charges of prurience, shock tactics or invasion of privacy. When the director of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, for example, was interviewed regarding his decision to whitewash an antiwar mural showing dollar-draped military coffins, he speculated that the mural would have offended the community in which it was placed. He then added that \"there were zero complaints, because I took care of it right away,\" a comment that practically defines the present topic.\n\nIn management and engineering, groupthink exists regarding matters of taste as they affect what products are acceptable for use by the public, but is not usually recognized as such.\n\n\"The Guardian\"'s withdrawal of its extended interview of Noam Chomsky in 2005 which was seen as a smear by his admirers such as the group while the apology he received and the article's removal were viewed as \"spineless\" acts by historian Marko Attila Hoare, one of Chomsky's critics. Another such incident would be the deletion of a December 21, 2006 Op-Ed piece in the \"New York Sun\" which had been written by British journalist Daniel Johnson.\n\nSelf-censorship can be considered as a method of preventive medicine and health maintenance: it stands in connection with the development of the information society, information overload and information pollution, the evolving information ecology and is associated with informational hygiene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1371319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371319", "title": "Sovietization", "text": "Sovietization\n\nSovietization () is the adoption of a political system based on the model of soviets (workers' councils) or the adoption of a way of life and mentality modelled after the Soviet Union.\n\nA notable wave of Sovietization (in the second meaning) occurred in Mongolia and later during and after World War II in Central Europe (Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland etc.). In a broad sense, this included (voluntary and involuntary) adoption of Soviet-like institutions, laws, customs, traditions and the Soviet way of life, both on a national level and in smaller communities. This was usually promoted and sped up by propaganda aimed at creating a common way of life in all states within the Soviet sphere of influence. In many cases, Sovietization was also accompanied by forced resettlement of large categories of \"class enemies\" (kulaks, or \"osadniks\", for instance) to the Gulag labor camps and exile settlements.\n\nIn a narrow sense, the term \"Sovietization\" is often applied to mental and social changes within the population of the Soviet Union and its satellites which led to creation of the \"new Soviet man\" (according to its supporters) or \"Homo Sovieticus\" (according to its critics).\n\n\n</div>\n"}
{"id": "20236650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20236650", "title": "Stored Communications Act", "text": "Stored Communications Act\n\nThe Stored Communications Act (SCA, codified at 18 U.S.C. Chapter 121 §§ 2701–2712) is a law that addresses voluntary and compelled disclosure of \"stored wire and electronic communications and transactional records\" held by third-party internet service providers (ISPs). It was enacted as Title II of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 (ECPA).\n\nThe Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects the people's right \"to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures\". However, when applied to information stored online, the Fourth Amendment's protections are potentially far weaker. In part, this is because the Fourth Amendment defines the \"right to be secure\" in spatial terms that do not directly apply to the \"reasonable expectation of privacy\" in an online context. The Fourth Amendment protects \"the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures.\" The Fourth Amendment has been stressed as a right that protects people and not places, which leaves the interpretation of the amendment's language broad in scope. In addition, society has not reached clear consensus over expectations of privacy in terms of more modern (and developing, future) forms of recorded and/or transmitted information.\n\nFurthermore, users generally entrust the security of online information to a third party, an ISP. In many cases, Fourth Amendment doctrine has held that, in so doing, users relinquish any expectation of privacy. The Third-Party Doctrine holds \"that knowingly revealing information to a third party relinquishes Fourth Amendment protection in that information.\" While a search warrant and probable cause are required to search one's home, under the third party doctrine only a subpoena and prior notice (a much lower hurdle than probable cause) are needed to subject an ISP to disclose the contents of an email or of files stored on a server.\n\nAs per request by the House Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and the Administration of Justice, as well as the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs asking the Office of Technology Assessment (OTA) to create a report about protections surrounding electronic communications, it was found that individuals were at risk. This risk identified current protections for electronic mail as being \"weak, ambiguous, or nonexistent.\" The report concluded that \"[t]he existing statutory framework and judicial interpretations thereof do not adequately cover new and emerging electronic surveillance technologies.\" Congress acknowledged the fact that traditional Fourth Amendment protections were lacking. As a result, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act was enacted in 1986 as an update on the Federal Wiretap Act of 1968, which addressed protections on telephone (land) line privacies. The provisions are distributed into 3 titles, with Title II being the Stored Communications Act.\n\nThe SCA creates Fourth Amendment-like privacy protection for email and other digital communications stored on the internet. It limits the ability of the government to compel an ISP to turn over content information and noncontent information (such as logs and \"envelope\" information from email). In addition, it limits the ability of commercial ISPs to reveal content information to nongovernment entities.\n\nSection 2701 (18 U.S.C. § 2701) of the SCA provides criminal penalties for anyone who \"intentionally accesses without authorization a facility through which an electronic communication service is provided or … intentionally exceeds an authorization to access that facility; and thereby obtains, alters, or prevents authorized access to a wire or electronic communication while it is in electronic storage in such system shall be punished ... .\"\n\nSection 2702 (18 U.S.C. § 2702) of the SCA targets two types of online service, \"electronic communication services\" and \"remote computing services.\" The statute defines an electronic communication service as \"any service which provides to users thereof the ability to send or receive wire or electronic communications.\" A remote computing service is defined as \"the provision to the public of computer storage or processing services by means of an electronic communications system.\" Also describes conditions under which a public ISP can voluntarily disclose customer communications or records. In general, ISPs are forbidden to \"divulge to any person or entity the contents of any communication which is carried or maintained on that service.\" However, ISPs are allowed to share \"non-content\" information, such as log data and the name and email address of the recipient, with anyone other than a governmental entity. In addition, ISPs that do not offer services to the public, such as businesses and universities, can freely disclose content and non-content information. An ISP can disclose the contents of a subscriber's communications authorized by that subscriber.\n\nSection 2703 (18 U.S.C. § 2703) of the SCA describes the conditions under which the government is able to compel an ISP to disclose \"customer or subscriber\" content and non-content information for each of these types of service:\n\nThis section also addresses the requirements for a court order for disclosure. It also addresses that no cause of action shall lie in any court against the provider under this chapter.\n\nSection 2704 (18 U.S.C. § 2704) of the SCA describes backup preservation such that an entity operating under 2703(b)(2) may ask for a backup copy of the electronic communications in order to preserve the communications. This backup may be included in the subpoena or court order requirement requested from the ISP.\n\nSection 2705(b) () also provides for gag orders, which direct the recipient of a 2703(d) order to refrain from disclosing the existence of the order or investigation. The court will be able to delay the notification for ninety days if it determines that there is a reason that the court order could have adverse results.\n\nSection 2706 (18 U.S.C. § 2706) of SCA addresses cost reimbursement such that a government entity obtaining communications and records under 2702,2703, or 2704 of the title should pay the party providing the information for incurred costs. The amount should be mutually agreed upon. This requirement is exempt when section (a) does not apply to the records held by the communications carrier.\n\nSection 2707 (18 U.S.C. § 2707) of SCA describes cause of civil action under this title, reliefs in a civil action, damages assessed in a civil action, administrative discipline, defence, limitation, and improper disclosure.\n\nSection 2708 (18 U.S.C. § 2708) of SCA states that the remedies and sanctions are the only judicial remedies and sanctions for violations of the chapter that are not constitutional violations.\n\nSection 2709 ()Is in regards to counterintelligence access to telephone toll and transactional records. Subsection (a) says that a wire or electronic communication service should comply with any request for information, records, electronic communications made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation Director with required certification (b).\n\nSection 2710 (18 U.S.C. § 2710) of SCA describes wrongful disclosure of videotape or sale records and resulting civil action in district court in the event of a violation under this section.\n\nSection 2711 (18 U.S.C. § 2711) of SCA provides definitions for the chapter. The terms defined are those in section 2510 of the title, \"remote computing service,\" \"court of competent jurisdiction,\" and \"government entity.\"\n\nSection 2712 (18 U.S.C. § 2712) of SCA discusses civil actions against the United States. Any party who has claims violation of the chapter or chapter 119 of the title may take action against U.S. District Court to recover money damages.\n\nWith respect to the government's ability to compel disclosure, the most significant distinction made by the SCA is between communications held in electronic communications services, which require a search warrant and probable cause, and those in remote computing services, which require only a subpoena or court order, with prior notice. This lower level of protection is essentially the same as would be provided by the Fourth Amendment—or potentially less, since notice can be delayed indefinitely in 90-day increments. Orin Kerr argues that, \"the SCA was passed to bolster the weak Fourth Amendment privacy protections that applied to the Internet. Incorporating those weak Fourth Amendment principles into statutory law makes little sense.\" In \"Warshak v U.S.\" (2007) this point of view found fleeting support from a panel of the Sixth Circuit, which ruled that a reasonable expectation of privacy extends to emails that would otherwise fall under the SCA's lower level of protection: \"Where the third party is not expected to access the e-mails in the normal course of business, however, the party maintains a reasonable expectation of privacy, and subpoenaing the entity with mere custody over the documents is insufficient to trump the Fourth Amendment warrant requirement.\" Subsequently, the Sixth Circuit \"en banc\" vacated the panel's ruling and remanded for dismissal of the constitutional claim, reasoning that, because the Court had \"no idea whether the government will conduct an \"ex parte\" search of Warshak's e-mail account in the future and plenty of reason to doubt that it will,\" the matter was not ripe for adjudication. Zwillinger and Sommer observed that this decision erected a barrier to \"prospective\" challenges by individuals with reason to believe they will be targets of surveillance. While Warshak's civil case ended without a resolution to this issue, his criminal case provided another opportunity. In \"United States v. Warshak\" (2010) the Sixth Circuit found that email users have a Fourth Amendment-protected reasonable expectation of privacy in the contents of their email accounts and that \"to the extent that the SCA purports to permit the government to obtain such emails warrantlessly, the SCA is unconstitutional.\"\n\nIn \"In re Application of the United States for Historical Cell Site Data\", 724 F.3d 600 (5th Cir. 2013), the Fifth Circuit held that court orders under the Stored Communications Act compelling cell phone providers to disclose historical cell site information are not per se unconstitutional. However, in \"Carpenter v. United States\" the Supreme Court ruled that the government violates the Fourth Amendment by accessing such information without a search warrant or exception to the warrant requirement such as exigent circumstances.\n\nMany ISPs have server farms and data centers where their users' electronic data is stored, with locations chosen globally to bolster server performance. As a result, data could potentially be outside of U.S. Jurisdictional reach. The application of SCA to extraterritorial jurisdiction became a point of contention, as the statute is debatably applicable to conducting searches outside of the United States, even over parties not physically in the United States. In support of this, the Bank of Nova Scotia Doctrine, or BNS, allows for \"a grand jury subpoena ... used to compel a company subject to U.S. jurisdiction to produce evidence stored outside of the United States if the evidence is within the company's possession,custody, or control.\" With these applications come arguments for the use of an appropriate Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT). It is ultimately the interpretation of the courts on which dictates how the warrant is carried out.\n\nIn light of an earlier ruling upholding extraterritorial application of the SCA in In Re Warrant of a Certain E-mail Account Controlled and Maintained by Microsoft Corporation, a new bill called the LEADS Act, was introduced. The bill \"preclude the use of U.S. warrants to obtain communications content stored outside the [United States] unless the content is in the account of an American.\" This means that disclosure of private communications on servers abroad through a judicial warrant can only occur if the user of such emails is a U.S. Citizen.\n\nOn December 4, 2013, government authorities obtained a SCA warrant from Magistrate Judge Francis in the Southern District of New York's case \"In re Warrant to Search a Certain E-Mail Account Controlled & Maintained by Microsoft Corp.\" Microsoft identified that the requested account was served on a server in Ireland. Microsoft filed a motion to quash the warrant based on the extraterritorial application of the warrant. This motion was denied by the court and the SCA warrant was explained as a \"hybrid order\", which is \"executed like a subpoena in that it is served on the ISP in possession of the information and does not involve government agents entering the premises of the ISP to search its servers and seize the email account in question.\" The court also confirmed that a call to utilize MLAT would not be necessary in the case. The case resulted in Microsoft voluntarily being held in contempt for non-compliance with the SCA warrant. This was meant to appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit as soon as they could. Microsoft claimed that they would not comply unless an appellate review was conducted, at minimum.\n\nOn July 14, 2016 a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit decided in favor of Microsoft that the SCA warrant cannot be seen as \"hybrid order\" and the SCA's warrant provisions do not apply extraterritorially. A 4-4 split decision on an en banc rehearing by the full Second Circuit left the panel's decision for the case. The U.S. Department of Justice appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States, which has heard the case. A decision was expected by June 2018, but the CLOUD Act may render the question moot. The case is considered to highlight issues related to the antiquated nature of the SCA compared to modern Internet technologies.\n\nAt the time of the SCA's creation, social media platforms were not present in the context in that the legislation addressed. The SCA's limits are that of electronic communications that are not supposed to be available to the public. Despite this, court's decisions like \"Crispin v. Christian Audigier, Inc\" evidence that SCA granted protections can be allocated to certain social media communication channels. ECS and RCS identification is necessary in a decision regarding the SCA's social media application. The courts in the Crispin c. Christian Audigier, Inc. stated \"messages that have not yet been opened ... operate as ECS providers and the messages are in electronic storage because they fall within the definition of \"temporary, intermediate storage\" under § 2510(17)(A) ... messages that have been opened and retained ... [on social networking websites] operate as RCS providers providing storage services under § 2702(a)(2).\n\nWall postings and comments are not considered protectable as forms of temporary, intermediate storage. Wall posts and comments are stored for backup protection purposes, which means they are covered under SCA subsections (B). Wall posts and comments have been court-classified as electronic bulletin board service, or BBS. BBS, terminology used in the 1986 history of the SCA, defines BBS as communication networks by computer users to transfer information among computers that may be noncommercial systems being operated by users with shared interests. BBS available to the public is not covered by the SCA due to public access granted by the facilitator. However, if a user is restrictive of access to these communications on the account, then those communications are subject to SCA coverage.\n\nIt is unknown the level of specific BBSs privacy is sufficient for SCA protection. A numerical upper limit to the number of users, or \"friends\" a profile is connected to would be \"arbitrary line drawing\" leading to \"anomalous result(s).\"\n\nIn 2017, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court found that the SCA did not prevent the personal representatives of a deceased person from accessing his emails.\n\nIn May 2010, a federal district court applied the SCA, for the first time, to data on social networking sites. The case intended to determine if the defendants could subpoena the plaintiff's electronic communications from the social media platforms Facebook, Media Temple, and MySpace. Buckley Crispin, the plaintiff, filed action against Christian Audigier, Christian Audigier, Inc., and their sublicensees. Crispin claimed that the defendants used his art in violation in which the defendants served subpoenas on the three aforementioned social media platforms. Crispin argued that these subpoenas sought electronic communications that ISPs do not have the authority to disclose under the SCA. When the judge claimed that social media platforms are not subject to the SCA, Crispin filed a motion to reconsider in the Central District of California.\n\nFollowing this, determination of ECS or RCS had to be made for Facebook, Media Temple, and Myspace. The courts in this case held Facebook and MySpace to be RCS providers in regard to comments and wall posts as open messages. Though these communications are not temporary or intermediate storage under subjection (A), the courts found that comments and wall posts are stored for purposes of backup protection. This means that they are covered by subsection (B) of the title.\n\nThe Act was invoked in the 2010 \"Robbins v. Lower Merion School District\" case, where plaintiffs charged two suburban Philadelphia high schools with secretly spying on students by surreptitiously and remotely activating webcams embedded in school-issued laptops the students were using at home, violating their right to privacy. The schools admitted to secretly snapping over 66,000 webshots and screenshots, including webcam shots of students in their bedrooms.\n\nThe language and provisions set during the 1986 year of the SCA do not comprehensively apply to modern day technology and the advancements. The SCA has led to ambiguity in compliance for ISPs as the legislation is outdated. This causes technology companies to take risks and alter their businesses to appease both domestic and international users who wish to access servers.\n\nCourts have become unsure of the way that SCA can apply to modern service providers, being given flexibility of interpretation. The result could be little protection actually offered. Flexibility dictates that a court decision may come down to a rhetoric, like if a server is a storage site or a communications center (which could happen in the case of Gmail.) This makes it so that broad principles and interpretations are meant to keep pace with technology.\n\nA societal criticism of the SCA is that the courts should be looking at the intents of parties, rather than access to communications. This brings into question the role of service providers as neutral repositories for content. In the modern space, service providers are unclear on if applying SCA would be a violation of user privacy rights. As a result, non compliance to subpoena could have a legal and economic impact on service providers.\n\nThe SCA is driven by case law and court interpretation. This can be criticized as an unstable grounds for an established standard. The SCA becomes less applicable as interpretations are stretched to meet new technology. Individual case law interpretations have the potential to leave undesirable political, social, and economic impacts both in the U.S. and globally.\n\nAbsence of Congressional legislative SCA reform since its 1986 enactment has been its biggest criticism due to historical and projected technological growth.\n"}
{"id": "3762257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3762257", "title": "Student Health Action Coalition", "text": "Student Health Action Coalition\n\nThe Student Health Action Coalition (SHAC) at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is the oldest student-run free clinic in the United States. It is run entirely by student volunteers from the Schools of Social Work, Public Health, Physical Therapy, Pharmacy, Nursing, Medicine, and Dentistry. The students, under the supervision of UNC doctors and professors, combine their skills to hold weekly dental and health clinics, provide rapid HIV testing services, and create sustainable community health promotion programs.\n\nIn 2004, the Coalition saw 740 patients, more than 600 of which came from the immediate surroundings of Chapel Hill, Carrboro, and Durham. Of the total seen, 83% reported that they were not insured, and that the clinic was their only source of primary care. Since its establishment in 1968, SHAC has attempted to redress differences in health indices between minorities and North Carolina’s Caucasian population; in 2004, almost 60% of the patients seen were Hispanic, and the majority of patients seen had at most a high-school-level of education.\n\nIn addition to providing basic medical services, the Coalition performs the essential function of educating patients about healthy behaviors. The organization relies heavily on the training and resources available to its public health students for one-on-one patient counseling regarding diet, exercise, smoking cessation and sexual health. Annual educational and disease screening projects include well child clinics, \"Fiesta del Pueblo,\" and work at several other health fairs, including \"FestiFall\", \"Apple Chill\", and Effland’s \"Octoberfest.\" Ongoing outreach projects include diabetic foot clinics in Hurdle Mills and nutrition education and cooking sessions at Carrboro’s \"Club Nova.\"\n\nSHAC also provides free, no-needle, rapid HIV testing services by trained counselors. HIV/AIDS education and personalized risk reduction is provided for all clients through pre- and post-test counseling. HIV testing is available for clinic patients and walk-in clients. In 2007, it tested over 400 people. The Coalition also provides services for those that test positive. It has firm links to both UNC Infectious Disease Clinic and social services for HIV positive people.\n\nThe Coalition receives and implements grants from North Carolina's branch of \"Reach Out and Read\", which the organization uses to educate patients about child literacy and to provide pediatric patients with free reading materials. In 2004, SHAC performed clinic referrals for over a third of the patients seen, a fact which indicates the organization’s interest in connecting the patients it serves with other established medical organizations. It is also dedicated to integrating its patients into the existing primary healthcare system, and has been enrolling patients in the State Children's Health Insurance Program for several years.\n"}
{"id": "2564087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2564087", "title": "Sublimis Deus", "text": "Sublimis Deus\n\nSublimis Deus (English: \"The sublime God\"; erroneously cited as Sublimus Dei) is a papal encyclical promulgated by Pope Paul III on June 2, 1537, which forbids the enslavement of the indigenous peoples of the Americas (called Indians of the West and the South) and all other people. It goes on to state that the Indians are fully rational human beings who have rights to freedom and private property, even if they are heathen. It strengthens the recent decree issued by Charles V of Spain in 1530 in which the King prohibited the enslavement of Indians. Another related document is the ecclesiastical letter Pastorale Officium, issued May 29, 1537, and usually seen as a companion document to \"Sublimis Deus\".\n\nThere is still some controversy about how this bull is related to the documents known as \"Veritas Ipsa\", \"Unigenitus Deu\"s, and \"Pastorale Officium\" (May 29, 1537). Alberto de la Hera (see footnote 1) believes that \"Veritas ipsa\" and \"Unigenitus Deus\" are simply other versions of \"Sublimis Deus\", and not separate bulls. Joel Panzer (\"The Popes and Slavery\" [New York: Alba House, 1996] p. 17) sees \"Veritas Ipsa\" as an earlier draft of \"Sublimis Deus\". While some scholars see\" Sublimis Deus\" as a primary example of Papal advocacy of Indian rights, others see it as part of an inconsistent and politically convenient stance by Paul III, who later rescinded \"Sublimis Deus\" or the \"Pastorale\" in 1538.\n\nIn \"Sublimis Deus\", Paul III unequivocally declares the indigenous peoples of the Americas to be rational beings with souls, denouncing any idea to the contrary as directly inspired by the \"enemy of the human race\" (Satan). He goes on to condemn their reduction to slavery in the strongest terms, declaring it null and void for any people known as well as any that could be discovered in the future, entitles their right to liberty and property, and concludes with a call for their evangelization.\n\nThe bull had a strong impact on the Valladolid debate, and its principles eventually became the official position of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain, although it was often ignored by the colonists and conquistadores themselves. The executing brief for the bull (\"Pastorale Officium\") was annulled by Paul in 1537 at the request of the Spanish who had rescinded the decree previously issued by Charles. The bull is cited at times as evidence of a strong condemnation by the church of slavery in general, but some scholars point out that Paul sanctioned slavery elsewhere after the issuing of Sublimis Deus.\n\nIn late spring of 1452 Byzantine Emperor Constantine XI wrote to Pope Nicholas for help against the impending siege of Constantinople by Ottoman Sultan Mehmed the Conqueror. Nicholas issued the bull \"Dum Diversas\" (18 June 1452) authorizing King Alfonso V of Portugal to \"attack, conquer, and subjugate Saracens, pagans and other enemies of Christ wherever they may be found.\" Issued less than a year before the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, the bull may have been intended to begin another crusade against the Ottoman Empire. Furthermore, the bull \"Romanus Pontifex\" (1455) gave the right of taking for reason of punishment for crime saracens (who, as Muslims in general were slavers themselves, often capturing Christians) and pagans as perpetual slaves.\n\nWith the realization that the Americas represented regions of the Earth of which the Europeans were not aware earlier, there arose intense speculation over the question whether the natives of these lands were true humans or not. Together with that went a debate over the (mis)treatment of these natives by the Conquistadores and colonists.\n\nA substantial party believed that these newfound peoples were not truly human. This party speculated that since Christendom was not permitted by God to become aware of their existence and thus bring the Gospel to them until so late, it was only because they were not human or possessed no souls, so they could not attain salvation. The New Testament says that the gospel has been preached to all nations; since the gospel had not been preached to the Native Americans, perhaps they did not count. In addition, Christians understood humanity to be divided into three distinct races (Europeans, Asians, and Africans), one for each of the sons of Noah. Native Americans did not fit among these divisions.\n\nThe main impetus for \"Sublimis Deus\" was a council held by prominent Missionaries in Mexico in 1537, including Archbishop Juan de Zumárraga, Bartolomé de Las Casas and Bishop of Puebla Julian Garcés. They discussed the methods of converting the natives, especially the Franciscan practice of mass baptism. Basing a recommendation to the pope on Las Casas' treatise on how to convert the Indians, \"De Unico Vocationis Modo\", they sent a letter to Rome with Dominican friar named Bernardino de Minaya (born ca. 1489). In 1537, Minaya arrived in Rome and pleaded his case on behalf of the Indians.\n\nIn response, Paul issued \"Sublimis Deus\" on June 2, 1537. \"Pastorale officium\", a papal brief apparently used in conjunction with the \"Sublimis Deus\" by Minaya, declared automatic excommunication for anyone who failed to abide by the new ruling. Stogre (1992) notes that \"Sublimis Deus\" is not present in Denzinger, the authoritative compendium of official teachings of the Catholic Church, and that the executing brief for it (\"Pastorale officium\") was annulled the following year. Davis (1988) asserts it was annulled due to a dispute with the Spanish crown. The Council of The West Indies and the Crown concluded that the documents broke their patronato rights and the Pope withdrew them, though they continued to circulate and be quoted by La Casas and others who supported Indian rights.\n\nAccording to Falkowski (2002) \"Sublimis Deus\" had the effect of revoking the bull of Pope Alexander VI \"Inter Caetera\" but still leaving the colonizers the duty of converting the native people. Prein (2008) observes the difficulty in reconciling these decrees with \"Inter Caetera\".\n\nFather Gustavo Gutierrez describes \"Sublimis Deus\" as the most important papal document relating to the condition of native Indians and that it was addressed to all Christians. Maxwell (1975) notes that the bull did not change the traditional teaching that the enslavement of Indians was permissible if they were considered \"enemies of Christendom\" as this would be considered by the Church as a \"just war\". Stogre (1992) further argues that the Indian nations had every right to self-defense. Rodney Stark (2003) describes the bull as \"magnificent\" and believes the reason that, in his opinion, it has belatedly come to light is due to the neglect of Protestant historians. Falola asserts that the bull related to the native populations of the New World and did not condemn the transatlantic slave trade stimulated by the Spanish monarchy and the Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nThe wording of \"Sublimis Deus\" was a general pronouncement, framed in terms that applied not only to Indians but to all unknown peoples. The principal passage reads:\n\nThe enemy of the human race, who opposes all good deeds in order to bring men to destruction, beholding and envying this, invented a means never before heard of, by which he might hinder the preaching of God's word of Salvation to the people: he inspired his satellites who, to please him, have not hesitated to publish abroad that the Indians of the West and the South, and other people of whom We have recent knowledge should be treated as dumb brutes created for our service, pretending that they are incapable of receiving the Catholic Faith.\n\nWe, who, though unworthy, exercise on earth the power of our Lord and seek with all our might to bring those sheep of His flock who are outside into the fold committed to our charge, consider, however, that the Indians are truly men and that they are not only capable of understanding the Catholic Faith but, according to our information, they desire exceedingly to receive it. Desiring to provide ample remedy for these evils, We define and declare by these Our letters, or by any translation thereof signed by any notary public and sealed with the seal of any ecclesiastical dignitary, to which the same credit shall be given as to the originals, that, notwithstanding whatever may have been or may be said to the contrary, the said Indians and all other people who may later be discovered by Christians, are by no means to be deprived of their liberty or the possession of their property, even though they be outside the faith of Jesus Christ; and that they may and should, freely and legitimately, enjoy their liberty and the possession of their property; nor should they be in any way enslaved; should the contrary happen, it shall be null and have no effect.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2906711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2906711", "title": "Tokubetsu Keisatsutai", "text": "Tokubetsu Keisatsutai\n\nThe was the Imperial Japanese Navy's military police, equivalent to the Imperial Japanese Army's \"Kempeitai\". It was also the smallest military police service.\n\nThe original \"Tokkeitai\" was known as the General Affairs Section and concerned itself with police and personnel work within the Navy: personnel, discipline and records. It took a more active role, partly to keep the \"Kempeitai\" and the Army from meddling in Navy affairs. Smaller and more low-key than its rival, it was no less brutal.\n\nIt was especially active in the areas of the South Pacific and the Naval Control Area and was as pervasive as the \"Kempeitai\". It had the same commissar roles in relation to exterior enemies or suspicious persons, and it watched inside units for possible defectors or traitors under the security doctrine of \"Kikosaku\".\n\nAttached to navy units, they served as Colonial police in some occupied Pacific areas. Later accusations of war crimes were made against them in that role for such acts as coercion of women from Indonesia, Indochina and China into sexual slavery.\nIn addition to its police responsibilities, it was the operative branch of the Secret Service Branch of the Imperial Japanese Navy (, which was responsible for recovering and analyzing information and for the execution of undercover operations. Its members also provided local security near naval bases. In the final weeks of the Pacific War, it was among the security units prepared for combat against the proposed Allied invasion of Japan.\n"}
{"id": "59128065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59128065", "title": "Union Saint-Jean-Baptiste d’Amerique", "text": "Union Saint-Jean-Baptiste d’Amerique\n\nThe Union Saint-Jean-Baptiste d'Amérique (USJB), also referred to by its member organizations as the Société de Saint-Jean-Baptiste d'Amérique ( \"Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society of America\"), was a Franco-American benefit society first organized in 1899 when the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society of Holyoke invited several other so-named independent organizations to form a national committee. Its first meeting was held on February 26, 1899; in the following year its first national congress was held on March 27, 1900, and the national organization was officially incorporated on May 7, 1900 in Woonsocket, Rhode Island. While L'Union was primarily formed for the purpose of creating sick, disability, and death funds for American French-speaking Catholics, the organization would also provide scholarships, civic education, and held cultural events including celebrations on Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day, parades, culinary and musical events, including French opera performances. Following a period of decline, the organization's mutual functions were merged with Catholic Financial Life in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "52697697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52697697", "title": "Voiceless Victims", "text": "Voiceless Victims\n\nVoiceless Victims is a fake non-profit organization based in Lille, France. It claims to raise awareness for migrant workers who are victims of human rights abuses in Qatar. However, in December 2016, several news outlets like \"Le Monde\" and \"Forbes\" showed that it had been spying on Amnesty International. It also tried to spy on Building and Wood Workers' International and Anti-Slavery International. An international investigation by Amnesty International showed that it had sent e-mails with spyware and malware to their staff; that its founder had a fake LinkedIn profile, with false claims of graduating from the University of Oxford; and that its Facebook posts included fake news stories (for example, a fake article never published by Al Jazeera). Moreover, when they visited the address of its headquarters, Amnesty International found no office, and neighbours said they had never heard of the organisation. Meanwhile, \"Le Monde\" did its own investigation and found out that no such organisation was ever registered in France.\n"}
{"id": "475233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475233", "title": "White separatism", "text": "White separatism\n\nWhite separatism is a separatist political and social movement that seeks the separation of white people from people of other races and ethnicities, the establishment of a white ethnostate by removing non-whites from existing communities or by forming new communities elsewhere. \n\nA study of the white separatist movement in the United States reported that adherents usually reject marriage \"outside the white race\". The authors also noted \"a distinction between the supremacist desire to dominate (as in apartheid, slavery, or segregation) and complete separation by race\".\n\nContemporary scholars disagree over whether white separatism is distinct from white supremacist beliefs: the Anti-Defamation League argues that white supremacists use the phrase because they believe it has fewer negative connotations than the term \"white supremacist\". Other scholars have argued that, while many white separatists are also white supremacists, contemporary white separatists reject the view that returning to a system of segregation is possible or desirable in the United States. \n\n\nNotes\n"}
