{"id": "44860089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44860089", "title": "Abd al-Baqi Yazdi", "text": "Abd al-Baqi Yazdi\n\nAbd al-Baqi Yazdi (), was an Iranian nobleman, who was the third person to serve as the \"vakil\" (vicegerent) of the Safavid Empire.\n\nA native of Yazd, Abd al-Baqi was the son of Na'im-al-Din Nematollah Sani, who was descended from Shah Nematollah, the founder of the Nematollahi order. In the early 16th-century, Abd al-Baqi succeeded his father as the leader of the Nematollah order. Later in 1511, Abd al-Baqi took part in a celebration at the camp of the Safavid ruler Ismail I (r. 1501–1524). \n\nOne year later, Abd al-Baqi served under the vakil Najm-e Sani, who was after a few months killed in Khorasan by Uzbeks. Abd al-Baqi was then appointed as the new vakil by Ismail I. Abd al-Baqi participated in the Battle of Chaldiran in 1514, where the Safavids, however, were defeated and Abd al-Baqi himself was killed. Another Iranian, Mirza Shah Hossein, was then appointed as the new \"vakil\" after having found Ismail's favorite wife, who was lost after the battle.\n\nAbd al-Baqi had a son named Mir Abd al-Baqi Yazdi (d. 1564), who was appointed as the governor of Yazd when Ismail's son Tahmasp I ascended the Safavid throne in 1524. He also later in 1535/6 married one of Tahmasp's sisters, who bore him an unnamed daughter, who later married Tahmasp's son Ismail II.\n\n"}
{"id": "24721691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24721691", "title": "Amadeus III of Geneva", "text": "Amadeus III of Geneva\n\nAmadeus III (29 March 1311 – 18 January 1367) was the Count of Geneva from 1320 until his death. He ruled the Genevois, but not the city of Geneva proper, and it was during his time that the term \"Genevois\" came to be used as it is today. He was the eldest son and successor of William III and Agnes, daughter of Amadeus V of Savoy. He played a major rôle in the politics of the House of Savoy, serving consecutively as regent and president of the council, and also sitting on the feudal tribunal—one of three tribunals of the \"Audiences générales\"—of the Duchy of Aosta.\n\nAfter the city and castle of Annecy were devastated in a fire in 1320, Amadeus moved his court to La Roche, which had been the seat of the counts of Geneva between 1124 and 1219. In 1325 Amadeus joined the coalition formed by Guigues VIII of Viennois against Edward of Savoy. On 7 August he fought in the victory of the Battle of Varey over the Savoyards. In 1326 the envoys of Charles IV of France negotiated a truce so that both counts, of Geneva and of Savoy, could join the king's expedition against Flanders in 1327–28. In January 1329 the new Count Aymon of Savoy came to terms with Amadeus, and the two established a commission to investigate the disputed territory between the Duingt and the Faverges. Ultimately Amadeus became a vassal of Aymon for at least a part of his territories. In 1338 another commission was established to deal with further boundary issues. The relationship between the peaceable and unambitious counts of Geneva and Savoy were, after 1337, always friendly.\n\nIn 1336 Amadeus donated the village of Vésenaz to the monastery of Bellerive.\n\nOn 11 January 1334 Amadeus stood godfather to his first cousin Amadeus VI of Savoy in the Sainte-Chapelle, then under construction, at Chambéry. He and Louis II of Vaud were designated by Aymon as regents for the young Amadeus, which roles they assumed on Aymon's death on 22 June 1343. On 26 June, after Aymon's funeral, the young Amadeus was crowned as Count of Savoy and Amadeus of Geneva was the first to swear the oath of fealty. The count of Geneva and the lord of Vaud moved into the and signed a written agreement, still preserved, whereby neither could act without the consent of the other, and all acts were to be committed to writing for purposes of review. In the details of this agreement considerable mutual suspicion can be detected. The lord of Vaud was the senior statesman of the House of Savoy, while Amadeus III was the head of its chief rival.\n\nThe first concern of the regents of Savoy after 1343 was securing the succession against the claims of Joan, daughter of Edward of Savoy, who died on 29 June 1344, but not before ceding her claims to Philip, Duke of Orléans. Amadeus and Louis sent an embassy to Pope Clement VI, seeking his support against Joan and Philip. In 1345 Philip signed a treaty relinquishing his claims in return for an annual stipend of 5,000 \"livres tournois\". The treaty was finalised at Paris and ratified at Chambéry on 25 February 1346.\n\nIn 1347–48 Amadeus spent a long stay at the Avignonese \"curia\" of Clement VI, who was then concerned with settling disputes in the Piedmont and Lombardy. On 4 January 1348 the count of Savoy came of age and the regency ended, although it continued in practice, as Amadeus VI was only fourteen years old. Later that year the lord of Vaud died and Amadeus III was left as sole regent, overseeing the \"council of Savoy\" or \"count's council\", as the former regency council was then known. The Savoyard historians Jehan Servion and Jean Cabaret d'Oronville record that the council elected one of its members, Guillaume de la Baume, to co-rule with the count of Geneva, who was still not trusted by the Savoyards. Guillaume's election may have been due to French influence.\n\nIn 1348, Alamand de Saint-Jeoire, the Bishop of Geneva, placed two of his castles under the protection of the Dauphin Charles, future king of France, in an effort to stem the influence of the counts both of Geneva and of Savoy. Amadeus III's officials took reprisals against the diocese, bringing down the condemnation of Clement VI, who nonetheless maintained his good relations with the counts. Amadeus was not deterred. He seized the two castles and removed the Dauphin's banners, replacing them with his own. On 8 October 1349 an alliance was sealed at Cirié between Amadeus III of Geneva, Amadeus VI of Savoy, Galeazzo II of Milan, and James of Piedmont. This alliance was sealed by the marriage of the count of Savoy's sister Bianca to Galeazzo on 28 September 1350, which was followed by the creation of the Order of the Black Swan, of which Amadeus of Geneva was named one of the three \"grans seignours\" (along with the count of Savoy and Galeazzo).\n\nBy 9 July 1351, Amadeus had fallen out with the rest of the council of Savoy and its anti-French policy. On that day, presiding over a meeting of the council at Saint-Genix, he ordered that his opposition to hearing some ambassadors from Edward III of England be recorded. Amadeus and the Savoyard chancellor, Georges de Solerio, were largely responsible for the subsequent treaty signed with France on 27 October at Avignon.\n\nIn 1351 the peasantry of the Valais rebelled against the lordship of the Bishop of Sion, then Guichard Tavel, of Genevan family and Savoyard allegiance. On 7 January 1352 the rebels were excommunicated by Clement VI. In March an army, led by Amadeus of Savoy, Amadeus of Geneva, John II of Montferrat, and Peter IV of Gruyère was gathering at Saint-Maurice to crush the rebels. The inhabitants of the Valais were so intimidated, however, that they surrendered without a fight.\n\nIn May 1352 Amadeus VI of Savoy nullified the treaty of Avignon negotiated by Amadeus III, maligning (probably without basis) the count of Geneva's integrity. In July Amadeus formally withdrew from the council of Savoy and challenged the lords of La Baume, whom he considered his archenemies at the Savoyard court, to war. In 1355, after the conclusion of a war between the count of Savoy and the Dauphin Charles, Amadeus III refused to do homage to his cousin for those fiefs he held of the Dauphin. Amadeus also interfered with the count of Savoy's attempts to militarily occupy the barony of Faucigny that year, although he did not actively intervene. Despite his attempts he was unable to induce John II of France to intervene in the Faucignerans' favour. On 20 July in the Franciscan monastery at Geneva, Amadeus III did homage to his former ward the count of Savoy. The issues in dispute had by this time been brought before the Emperor Charles IV, the overlord of the entire region. On 21 August he ordered the count of Savoy not to interfere in the Faucigny or the County of Geneva and put both under his direct protection pending an investigation.\n\nIn May 1358 the Emperor exempted Amadeus III of the jurisdiction of Savoy and granted him the right to appeal to the Emperor all decisions by any other court, whether French or Savoyard. Amadeus, but not his successors, was granted the right to coin money (at the Palais de l'Isle), legitimise bastards, and create notaries. The bishop of Geneva immediately opposed the count's right of coinage to the pope. Amadeus of Savoy ordered Amadeus III to renew his oath of homage, but the latter instead asked for the arbitration of Jean de Bertrand, the Archbishop of Tarentaise. On 2 August the archbishop ruled that Amadeus had the right to mint coins, but not to refuse to renew the oath of homage nor to appeal outside of the courts of the count of Savoy. The count of Geneva refused to accept the result, accusing the archbishop of an \"unjust and iniquitous\" verdict and vowing to appeal to the Emperor personally (\"viva voce\"). The two counts came to terms by 21 December. Amadeus III agreed to render homage at Geneva for his fiefs Duingt, Annecy, La Roche, Clermont, Thônes, Gruffy, Arlod, Châtel, La Bâtie, and Gaillard, and for the \"sub-fiefs\" of his own vassals Thomas de Menthon, Guillaume de Compey, and Aymon de Pontverre. In return Amadeus VI declared the archiepiscopal decision void.\n\nIn January 1364 Amadeus III was named the second knight of the newly founded Order of the Collar. While the formation of the Order was connected with the launch of , Amadeus III did not accompany the crusaders. He sent his eldest son, Aymon III, in his place, and he himself died only months after the crusaders departed, which suggests that he was in poor health at the time.\n\nIn 1334 Amadeus married Mathilde or Mahaut d'Auvergne, also called \"de Boulogne\", with whom he had numerous offspring, four of whom were counts of Geneva in succession:\n"}
{"id": "37125735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37125735", "title": "Andrzej Abramowicz", "text": "Andrzej Abramowicz\n\nAndrzej Abramowicz (died 1763) was a Polish-Lithuanian nobleman. He was Castellan Lithuanian Brest (1757-1763) and Knight of the Order of the White Eagle (1761).\n"}
{"id": "33416896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416896", "title": "Anti-individualism", "text": "Anti-individualism\n\nAnti-individualism (also known as content externalism) is an approach to various areas of thought (both analytic and continental) including philosophy, the philosophy of psychology, French historical studies, literature, phenomenology and linguistics.\n\nThe proponents arguing for anti-individualism in these areas have in common the view that what seems to be internal to the individual is to some degree dependent on the social environment, thus self-knowledge, intentions, reasoning and moral value may variously be seen as being determined by factors outside the person. The position has been supported by Sanford Goldberg and by other thinkers such as Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Hilary Putnam and Tyler Burge.\n\nAcademic discussion negotiating anti-individualism as a reasonable stance started with Tyler Burge's 1988 \"Individuation and Self-Knowledge\" being particularly influential. In it, Burge set out to argue for a limited agreement with the Cartesian model of self-cognition as being Authoritative, but also pointed out that knowledge of self-cognition was not always absolute, allowing for the individuation of thought to originate from both the external content of our environment as well as from the internal landscape of our self-knowledge as it is still being discovered: \"One can know what one's mental events are and yet not know relevant general facts about the conditions for individuating those events. It is simply not true that the cogito gives us knowledge of the individuation conditions of our thoughts which enables us to \"shut off\" their individuation conditions from the physical environment\".\n\nMichael McKinsey builds on this in 1991 discussing Burge's view in his paper \"Anti-Individualism and Privileged Access\" arguing that there is no warrant to an epistemic narrow state of mind (i.e. privileged access) and that there is only a wide state of mind as influenced by the conditions of individuation of thought. Anthony Brueckner then questions McKinsey's take on Burge and McKinsey replies in his \"Accepting the Consequences of Anti-individualism\".\n\nMany of the essays found in Hilary Putnam's \"The Twin Earth Chronicles\" are considered early formative works for the anti-individualist model from the analytic perspective.\n\n"}
{"id": "8707439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8707439", "title": "Asiatic Lion Reintroduction Project", "text": "Asiatic Lion Reintroduction Project\n\nThe Asiatic Lion Reintroduction Project is an initiative of the Indian Government to provide safeguards to the Asiatic lion (\"Panthera leo leo\") from extinction in the wild by means of reintroduction. The last wild population of the Asiatic lion is found in the region of Gir Forest National Park, in the state of Gujarat. The single population faces the threats of epidemics, natural disasters and other anthropogenic factors. The project aims to establish a second independent population of Asiatic lions at the Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. However, the proposed translocation has been bitterly contested by the state government.\n\nThe distribution of Asiatic lion, once found widely in West and South Asia, dwindled to a single population in the Gir Forest National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary in India. The population at Gir declined to 18 animals in 1893 but increased due to protection and conservation efforts to 284 in 1994. The Gir Wildlife Sanctuary is now highly overpopulated with lions, the 2015 census showed the strength to be 523 lions. There are numerous deaths in the population annually because of ever increasing competition between the human and animal overcrowding. Asiatic lion prides require large territories but there is limited space at Gir wildlife sanctuary, which is boxed in on all sides by heavy human habitation. Gir lions have started moving outwards from the sanctuary and establishing homes outside the protected areas. The lions are now spread over in the vicinity of 1050 villages in three contiguous districts - Amreli, Bhavnagar and Junagadh.\n\nThe Maharaja of Gwalior, on being encouraged by Lord Curzon in 1904, imported cubs of African lions and attempted to introduce them in the wild in the forests near Sheopur. The introduced lions took to raiding livestock and some even turned to man-eating, subsequent to which they were all eventually tracked down and shot.\n\nThe concept of reintroduction for purposes of conservation was accepted in 1956 by the Indian Wildlife Board during a meeting of their executive committee at Sasan Gir and the offer by the state government of Uttar Pradesh to host a second population in the Chakia forests was accepted. In 1956 one lion and two lionesses were captured from Gir, placed in the Sakkarbuagh Zoo in Junagadh for nine months and translocated in 1957 to the Chandra Prabha Sanctuary, newly established for the reintroduction, near Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. An enclosure was created with a high barbed wire fence within the sanctuary in which the lions were temporarily housed before being released in the sanctuary. Initially the lions prospered increasing in number to four in 1958, five in 1960, seven in 1962 and eleven in 1965 after which the population died out inexplicably.\n\nJohnsingh (2006) attributes the failure of the translocation to three causes – inadequate area, lack of systematic monitoring using scientific techniques and unrestricted movement of grazing animals throughout the sanctuary possibly leading to conflict with the herders. Small size of area, the long period of captivity in Junagadh zoo, absence of education of the local villagers and lack of conflict resolution mechanism are also listed as contributory factors in Chellam and Johnsingh (1999).\n\nThe Wildlife Institute of India (WII) began studying the Asiatic lion in its habitat in from 1986 onwards and collected fundamental data about the lion, its feeding, use of habitat and ranging habits. Key findings of the study were that the lions largely preyed upon the wild herbivores such as sambar (\"Rusa unicolor\") and chital (\"Axis axis\") and that the size of home range was for females and for the males. In 1990, the WII proposed the creation of a second wild population of Asiatic lions to safeguard the species against potential calamities in Gujarat's Gir National Park.\n\nIn 1993, a workshop was held on the Population and Habitat Viability Assessment (PHVA) of Asiatic lion and the report was presented to the state forest departments in Vadodara, Gujarat. State forest departments were asked to suggest suitable sites for reintroduction and provide the basic ecological data.\n\nDuring the workshop, a number of teams were formed to focus on varied aspects of the conservation biology of the Asiatic lion such as monitoring, habitat (further subdivided into Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan sub-groups), population modelling, prey-base requirements, lion-human interactions, translocation, captive zoo animals, public education, veterinary, reproductive and genetic aspects etc.\n\nThe sites were assessed and ranked for suitability as follows:\n\nThe PHVA report strongly favoured the scientific management of reintroduction of Asiatic lions to another site:\nThe PHVA deliberations were followed by visits to the three most promising site, viz Kuno, Darrah-Jawaharsagar and Sitamata WLS by a survey team of WII headed by Dr Ravi Chellam. The team evaluated sites over various parameters and compared the same with respect to Gir Forest for determining the suitability of sites. They presented their findings in 1995 to the Government of India and the state forest departments. WII researchers confirmed that the Palpur-Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary was the most promising location to re-establish a free ranging population of the Asiatic lions and in 2007 certified it ready to receive its first batch of translocated lions.\n\nThe framework of the Lion Introduction Project emerged from the transformation of a Monitoring Committee, set up by the Government of India, which met on 10 March 2004 for effective implementation of the reintroduction at Kuno.\n\nAt the meeting the WII Site Survey was examined and it was understood that Kuno Palpur Sanctuary was the most suitable site for reintroduction. The Committee formulated a three phase framework for the conservation project to last for two decades as follows : \n\nAt that point in time, the project was in Phase II and 18 of the 24 villages had been rehabilitated from Kuno. The refusal of Gujarat state to provide lions was mentioned during this meeting by the Chief Wildlife Warden of Gujarat. A number of steps were approved with consensus which included the engaging of the Gujarat State Government as to the necessity of the project, preparation of a trans-location road map, fresh assessment of prey base of Kuno by WII and continued funding support for welfare measures and habitat improvement for the existing fauna at Kuno.\n\nThe Madhya Pradesh state forest department notified of the Kuno Palpur area as a Wildlife Sanctuary in 1981. In April 2002, a separate Wildlife Division was established for Kuno, effectively increasing the protected area for wildlife to .\n\nTwenty four villages of the Sahariya tribe, comprising 1545 families, were moved out from the core area and rehabilitated by the state government with assistance from the Central Government. Due to a paucity of suitable revenue lands in the vicinity of Kuno, the state government proposed relocating the villages on degraded protected forests, a move approved by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) of the Government of India, which granted its approval under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 for diversion of . By 2002-2003, all 24 villages and the identified families were relocated outside Kuno and the former village area converted into grasslands.\n\nThe Madhya Pradesh state government informed the Supreme Court that each family was given of cultivable land, in addition to for housing along with building constructional material costing Rs 1,00,000/- per house. The net outflow to the Central Government was Rs.15 crores.\n\nMajor gaps remain in the implementation of the rehabilitation measures, with villagers alleging that they have got little of the rehabilitation package they were promised. The negative economic impact of the displacement to villagers from Kuno sanctuary has raised a controversy over the merits of species preservation via dislocation of human populations living inside Protected Areas. NGOs, such as the Samrakshan Trust, have been working for better rehabilitation of villagers who agreed to move out of the Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary.\n\nIn 2004, the state government refused to part with the first pride of 19 animals planned for relocation. The state considers the lions as \"heritage of the state\" and the issue of handing over lions has become a political issue. Mangubhai Patel, then State Forest Minister, went on record to state that: \n\nAs early as 2009, the continued opposition of the Gujarat state government led to the Madhya Pradesh Forest Department's exploration of the possibility of procuring zoo-bred Asiatic lions and shifting them and their descendants to Palpur-Kuno.\n\nThe Gujarat state government has, over time, made various arguments against translocating lions to Madhya Pradesh (MP), such as that the Kuno sanctuary was not suitable lion habitat and that it had inadequate prey base, that MP had been unable to provide adequate protection to tigers in its Panna National Park and the lions if reintroduced there would be in danger, that the proposed introduction of Southern African cheetahs to Kuno rendered it unsuitable for lion reintroduction.\n\nThe Gujarat State Wildlife Department proposed new homes for lions in the Barda Wildlife Sanctuary and Bhavnagar Amreli Forest instead. Gir's lions have spread beyond the protective area and the measures of the state to engage this phenomenon are being portrayed as providing adequate dispersal to the lion population to prevent disease. Gujarat also played an emotional card by declaring before the Supreme Court that the lion was inextricably bound to the culture of Gujarat and that it was a \"family member\", hence could not be provided for translocation to Kuno.\n\nThis stand of Gujarat suffered a setback when on 15 April 2013, the Supreme Court of India acknowledged translocation to Kuno as being in the best interest of the species and rejected the Gujarat Government's objections, instead ordering the translocation to be carried out within six months. A \"bandh\" was called in the villages adjoining the Sasan Gir region on 18 April 2013 protesting the Supreme Court decision.\n\nIn light of the State Government of Gujarat's refusal to permit the reintroduction of Asiatic lions, a writ petition was filed in 1995 by the Centre for Environment Law and WWF-I in the Indian Supreme Court to get the Gujarat State Government to release a few prides of Asiatic lions for the Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary. The Indian Supreme Court fast-tracked the case and delivered a judgement on 16 April 2013 permitting the reintroduction of lions to Kuno, over-ruling the objections of the Gujarat Government.\n\nThe Gujarat Government filed on 1 July 2013 for a review in the Supreme Court of its 16 April ruling. In its petition, the Gujarat state government claimed that:\nThe state has put forward the argument that translocation would break social bonds between members of groups or prides, which are vital for lion survival. The reported presence of tiger cubs in Palpur-Kuno was emphasised, saying that it could result in conflict between these top predators. The state proposed, instead, a second home for lions within Gujarat itself, claiming it would have numerous advantages including being in tune with international guidelines. \nThe continued reluctance of the state to part with lions for translocation has come under criticism from prominent environmentalists.\n\nPost the verdict, fears have been voiced by Gujarati environmentalists over the gun culture of Madhya Pradesh and number of firearms in Sheopur, the region where the Kuno Palpur sanctuary is located and it is suggested that translocation to such an area would be in violation of IUCN norms on the subject. With the release of IUCN guidelines on translocation, opponents of the project have cited from the provisions and also claimed that the history of translocations especially in India is dismal and hence translocation is not favoured. The natural spread of over-populated lions from an original range of over to an area extending over , is considered to mitigate against the risk of epidemic disease.\n\nThe Gujarat's government's curative petition against relocation of the wild Asiatic lions from the Gir Forest to Madhya Pradesh was dismissed by the Supreme Court on 14 August 2014.\n\nIn the face of continued opposition, the Madhya Pradesh government is considering an alternate plan to release zoo-bred lions from Hyderabad and Sakkarbaug, a move which has been criticised in the light of the deaths of two newly translocated zoo-bred lions in the safari park at Etawah, Uttar Pradesh.\n\nAfter the dismissal of the Gujarat State petition, two NGOs from Gujarat have filed separate petitions against the translocation order, one on the grounds that certain relevant facts have not been brought to the notice of the apex court, the other stating that the importance of Kuno-Palpur as a corridor for migrating tigers between Ranthambore National Park in Rajasthan and Madhav National Park in Madhya Prdesh had been downplayed.\n\nAs of December 2017, Madhya Pradesh still has not received lions from Gujarat. For this reason, it may have given up on trying to acquire them.\n\nAs of October 2018, the lions were still in Gujarat, and 23 of them were found dead. 4 of them had died of the infection which killed several East African lions in the Serengeti ecoregion, the canine distemper virus.\n\nThe plan is to reintroduce a pride or two of wild, free-ranging Asiatic lions from Gir Forest in the neighboring Indian state of Gujarat to start with.\n\nIn compliance with the Supreme Court order of 15 April 2013, the Ministry of Environment and Forests has constituted a panel for deciding the best course of action in translocation of animals to Gir. The panel comprises 12 members including member secretary National Tiger Conservation Authority, the Chief Wildlife Wardens of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, member Wildlife Institute of India, and scientists Drs Ravi Chellam, Y.V. Jhala, NK Ranjeet Singh and PR Sinha. The panel will advice both the states on technical aspect of transloction, decide the composition of animals to be translocated, select the prides and animals, supervise the translocation, monitor it and periodically report to the Ministry. During the first deliberations on 29 July 2013, the panel acceded the need to follow the recent IUCN translocation guidelines but brushed aside Gujarat's objections against the process. A two-member team comprising Dr Ravi Chellam and Dr Y.V. Jhala has been set up to decide the translocation protocol and report within six weeks.\n\nGujarat objected to meeting of the 12-member panel on 29 July 2013 before its petition had been reviewed and also to the presence of tiger experts on the panel, claiming that lion experts from Gujarat had been ignored, however that petition was rejected by the Supreme Court.\n\nIn a further development, in April 2015, the Union government has admitted that Madhya Pradesh will have to enlarge the wildlife sanctuary's size, from to in order to implement the translocation of the Asiatic lions to Kuno-Palpur from Gujarat's Sasan Gir, a suggestion made in the original project report. This is the first time that the Government of India has accepted that the sanctuary needs to be enlarged. However, the expansion would require the relocation of several big villages, a move the Madhya Pradesh government is not keen to undertake. The Madhya Pradesh Forest Department is of the view that the present sanctuary area and its buffer total over 700 km and are therefore adequate, but have made no mention of notifying the buffer zone area also as a sanctuary.\n\nIn a reversal of position, the Ministry of Environment and Forests decided in a meeting in June 2015 against translocation at present on the grounds that it would be detrimental to the breeding and survival of the lions as they lived in social prides. The turn-around of stance has been attributed by environmentalists supporting the translocation to Narendra Modi who had as Chief Minister of Gujarat stated that the lion was the pride of Gujarat and had publicly declared his opposition to the transfer of lions outside the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4351377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4351377", "title": "Biosatellite", "text": "Biosatellite\n\nA biosatellite is an artificial satellite designed to carry plants or animals in outer space. They are used to research the effects of space (cosmic radiation, weightlessness, etc.) on biological matter while in orbit around a celestial body. The first satellite carrying an animal (a dog, \"Laika\") was Soviet Sputnik 2 on November 3, 1957. On August 20, 1960 Soviet Sputnik 5 launched and recovered dogs from orbit Earth orbit. \n\nNASA launched three satellites between 1966 and 1969 for the Biosatellite program.\n\nThe most famous biosatellites include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4619540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4619540", "title": "Caenogenesis", "text": "Caenogenesis\n\nCaenogenesis (also variously spelled cainogenesis, cenogenesis, kainogenesis, kenogenesis) is the introduction during embryonic development of characters or structure not present in the earlier evolutionary history of the strain or species, as opposed to palingenesis. Notable examples include the addition of the placenta in mammals.\n\nCaenogenesis constitutes a violation to Ernst Haeckel's biogenetic law and was explained by Haeckel as adaptation to the peculiar conditions of the organism's individual development. Other authorities, such as Wilhelm His, Sr., on the contrary saw embryonic differences as precursors to adult differences.\n\n\nGould, S.J. 1977. Ontogeny and Phylogeny. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.\n"}
{"id": "58042119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58042119", "title": "Carina Curto", "text": "Carina Curto\n\nCarina Curto (born 15 April 1978) is an American mathematician, an Associate Professor at Pennsylvania State University, and a Sloan Research Fellow. She is known for her work on mathematical neuroscience, including the applications of mathematics in both theoretical and computational neuroscience. Her recent work is funded by the BRAIN Initiative. She is an Associate Editor at SIAGA, a SIAM journal on Applied Algebra and Geometry.\n\nCurto was born to Argentine parents and grew up in Iowa City. She attended Iowa City West High School. During her school years, she attended courses at University of Iowa, including advanced mathematics classes, physics, computer science, French literature, and more. In 1996, she began studying for an A.B. in Physics at Harvard University. During her time at Harvard, she was awarded prizes including the Detur Book Prize, one of Harvard's oldest awards, and the American Physical Society minority scholarship. After graduating from Harvard in 2000 and being awarded the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship, Curto started a Ph.D in mathematics at Duke University. Curto's Ph.D focused on mathematical string theory and algebraic geometry. Her thesis was titled 'Matrix Model Superpotentials and Calabi-Yau Spaces: an ADE Classification'.\n\nOnce Curto gained her Ph.D, she moved to Rutgers University in New Jersey, working as a Postdoctoral Associate in a neuroscience lab at the Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience. After three years at Rutgers, she returned to working in mathematics, focusing on neuroscience from a more mathematical perspective, and moved to the Courant Institute of Mathematics at New York University, then to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, followed by the Pennsylvania State University. Curto is as an Associate Professor of mathematics, the co-head of their mathematical neuroscience lab, and a member of the Center for Neural Engineering.\n\nHer research focuses on the interplay between the connectivity and dynamics of the brain and involves studying neural recordings and analysing the patterns of the activities. This network analysis aims to understand the connections between the neurons and their patterns. Traditionally, neuroscientists rely on tools from physics. But Curto's approach uses tools from pure mathematics, particularly algebraic geometry, which is applied to the activity data of the neurons. Curto's research is significant in the field of connectomics. For instance, one study showed how neural activities can drastically change by slightly changing the structure of the networks, which has implications for the study of brain disorders such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia.\n\nAlong with Katherine Morrison from the University of Northern Colorado, and with funding from the government's BRAIN Initiative grant and the NSF, Curto is working on Combinatorial Threshold-Linear Networks, CTLNs. These models enable the observations of emergent patterns, such as neuronal sequences and complex rhythms, and can also be used to predict features of the dynamics, something that has been seemingly difficult to predict.\n\nAligned with her research, Curto, alongside Morrison, also created a project called Network Songs, which originally started out as a gimmick. This is a collection of songs, that show the rhythmic activity of the networks. The basis of the songs were created by assigning a note on the piano to each neuron. Curto explains that sometimes certain patterns are better distinguished by the ear, than by the eye, hence the purpose of this particular representation of the network data.\n\nCurto has been the recipient of numerous grants and awards, including becoming a Woodrow Wilson National Fellow and an Alfred Sloan Research Fellow. Additionally, in 2012, Curto was named a UNL Academic Star.\n\nIn March 2018, the American Mathematical Society, AMS, included Curto in a list of 27 female mathematicians in honour of Women's History Month, publishing a profile of her in the AMS Notices journal.\n\nThroughout her years as a mathematician, Curto has taken part in many events and boards to promote women in mathematics. This includes being involved with the Women In Math club at UNL and being part of the Nebraska Conference for Undergraduate Women in Mathematics, NCUWM, organizing committee.\n\nCurto is also an amateur tennis player. In 1995, when at high school, she became the Double State Champion. Furthermore, in 1996-1997 she was the Varsity Letter Winner for Women's tennis at Harvard.\n\nCurto lives in State College with her husband and two children.\n"}
{"id": "27830060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27830060", "title": "Christian Afrikaner", "text": "Christian Afrikaner\n\nChristian Afrikaner (born before 1820, died 15 June 1863) was the oldest son of Jonker Afrikaner and Beetje Boois. He became the fifth Captain of the mixed-race Orlam Afrikaners in South-West Africa, after the death of his father in 1861.\n\nChristian was born at Bethanie, in what is now Namibia, at some time before 1820. He became leader of the Orlams while still in his twenties, at a time when his people were in constant conflict with the Herero over land and cattle but did not have the support of the European traders in Otjimbingwe, particularly Karl Johan Andersson and Frederick Green. They considered that the war was bad for trade, and helped organising and leading the Herero army. Consequently, the Herero were better equipped and gradually took over military dominance. \n\nChristian Afrikaner died in an attack on Maharero's settlement at Otjimbingwe on 15 June 1863. This incident marked the beginning of the erosion of power of the Orlam Afrikaners.\n"}
{"id": "2366739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2366739", "title": "Christopher Bainbridge", "text": "Christopher Bainbridge\n\nChristopher Bainbridge (c. 1462/1464 – 1514) was an English Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Archbishop of York from 1508 until his death.\n\nThe cardinal came from a Westmorland family with roots in Bainbridge, North Yorkshire and was a maternal nephew of Thomas Langton, Bishop of Winchester, which may account for his charmed early life. He was granted an indult in 1479 which allowed him to hold church benefices while still unordained and under the age of 16, and another in 1482 that allowed him to hold more than one benefice concurrently. He was said to have been fifty years old at his death and must therefore have been born about 1464.\n\nHe was described as a magister, or scientist, by 1486; at Bologna he was admitted DCL in 1492; he was in Rome between 1492–1494. Appointed Provost of Queen's College, Oxford in 1496, and Master of the Rolls in 1504, he was incorporated at Lincoln's Inn on 20 January 1505. By 1497, he had become chaplain to Henry VII; in 1503 dean of York; in 1505 he was Dean of St. George's Chapel, Windsor. He was appointed Bishop of Durham on 27 August 1507.\n\nBainbridge was translated to York on 22 September 1508, a sign of the favour he enjoyed at court. On 24 September 1509, King Henry VIII (whose coronation he had attended) appointed Bainbridge to be his ambassador to Pope Julius II.\n\nJust at this time Julius had taken alarm at the invasion of Italy by Louis XII of France, and the support of England was therefore of great importance.\n\nJulius left Rome to relieve Bologna, and was nearly taken prisoner in the war. A group of pro-French cardinals summoned a council in opposition to him at Pisa, which Julius opposed by calling another council at Rome, the Fifth Lateran Council, in the course of which he created (in March 1511) several new Cardinals, of which Bainbridge was one, with the title of \"Cardinal of St. Praxed's\" or Santa Prassede.\n\nBainbridge was immediately sent with an army to lay siege to Ferrara, but the creation of the Holy League relieved the papacy of some pressure by involving Spain against the French forces. Pope Julius II was succeeded on his death by Pope Leo X, who was initially willing to grant the title of \"Christianissimus Rex\" (Most Christian King) to Henry, after Francis had automatically forfeited the title by waging war on the Pope. However, Henry's making peace with France in 1514 probably ended these hopes.\n\nBainbridge died on 14 July 1514, having been poisoned by one of his own chaplains, Rinaldo de Modena. Rinaldo was imprisoned and confessed to the crime. He also implicated Silvester de Giglis, then Bishop of Worcester, as the instigator of the plot. De Giglis was the resident English ambassador at Rome, and regarded Bainbridge as a threat to his position: he also had sufficient power and influence to make Rinaldo retract his confession and have him killed in prison.\n\nRichard Pace and John Clerk, the cardinal's executors, were eager to prosecute De Giglis, but he maintained that the priest was a madman whom he had dismissed from his own service some years before in England, and his defence was accepted as sufficient.\n\nBainbridge was buried in the chapel of St Thomas of Canterbury at the English hospice in Rome, which later became the Venerable English College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9140", "title": "Dalek", "text": "Dalek\n\nThe Daleks ( ) are a fictional extraterrestrial race of mutants principally portrayed in the British science fiction television programme \"Doctor Who\". The Daleks were conceived by science-fiction writer Terry Nation and first appeared in the 1963 \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Daleks\", in the shells designed by Raymond Cusick.\n\nDrawing inspirations from the real-life example of the Nazis, Nation portrayed the Daleks as violent, merciless and pitiless cyborg aliens, who demand total conformity to their will, bent on the conquest of the universe and the extermination of what they see as inferior races. \n\nIn the programme's narrative, the Daleks were engineered by the scientist Davros during the final years of a thousand-year war between his people, the Kaleds, and their enemies the Thals. With some Kaleds already badly mutated and damaged by nuclear war, Davros genetically modified the Kaleds and integrated them with a tank-like, robotic shell, removing their every emotion apart from hate. His creations soon came to view themselves as the supreme race in the universe, intent on purging the universe of all non-Dalek life. Collectively they are the greatest enemies of \"Doctor Who\"s protagonist, the Time Lord known as \"the Doctor\". Later in the programme's run, the Daleks acquired time travel technology and engaged the Time Lords in a brutal Time War affecting most of the universe, with battles taking place across all of history. \n\nThey are the show's most popular villains and their returns to the series over the decades have gained media attention and their frequent order to \"Exterminate!\" has become common usage.\n\nThe Daleks were created by writer Terry Nation and designed by BBC designer Raymond Cusick. They were introduced in December 1963 in the second \"Doctor Who\" serial, colloquially known as \"The Daleks\". They became an immediate and huge hit with viewers, featuring in many subsequent serials and two 1960s motion pictures. They have become as synonymous with \"Doctor Who\" as the Doctor himself, and their behaviour and catchphrases are now part of British popular culture. \"Hiding behind the sofa whenever the Daleks appear\" has been cited as an element of British cultural identity; and a 2008 survey indicated that nine out of ten British children were able to identify a Dalek correctly. In 1999 a Dalek photographed by Lord Snowdon appeared on a postage stamp celebrating British popular culture. In 2010, readers of science fiction magazine \"SFX\" voted the Dalek as the all-time greatest monster, beating competition including Japanese movie monster Godzilla and J. R. R. Tolkien's Gollum, of \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nAs early as one year after first appearing on \"Doctor Who\", the Daleks had become popular enough to be recognized even by non-viewers. In December 1964 editorial cartoonist Leslie Gilbert Illingworth published a cartoon in the \"Daily Mail\" captioned \"THE DEGAULLEK\", caricaturing French President Charles de Gaulle arriving at a NATO meeting as a Dalek with de Gaulle's prominent nose.\n\nThe word \"Dalek\" has entered major dictionaries, including the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", which defines \"Dalek\" as \"a type of robot appearing in 'Dr. Who', a B.B.C. Television science-fiction programme; hence used allusively.\" English-speakers sometimes use the term metaphorically to describe people, usually authority figures, who act like robots unable to break from their programming. For example, John Birt, the Director-General of the BBC from 1992 to 2000, was called a \"croak-voiced Dalek\" by playwright Dennis Potter in the MacTaggart Lecture at the 1993 Edinburgh Television Festival.\n\nExternally, Daleks resemble human-sized pepper pots with a single mechanical eyestalk mounted on a rotating dome, a gun mount containing an energy weapon (\"gunstick\" or \"death ray\") resembling an egg whisk, and a telescopic manipulator arm usually tipped by an appendage resembling a sink plunger. Daleks have been known to use their plungers to interface with technology, crush a man's skull by suction, measure the intelligence of a subject, and extract information from a man's mind. Dalek casings are made of a bonded polycarbide material called \"dalekanium\" by a member of the human resistance in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" and by the Cult of Skaro in \"Daleks in Manhattan\".\n\nThe lower half of a Dalek's shell is covered with hemispherical protrusions, or \"Dalek bumps\", which are shown in the episode \"Dalek\" to be spheres embedded in the casing. Both the BBC-licensed \"Dalek Book\" (1964) and \"The Doctor Who Technical Manual\" (1983) describe these items as being part of a sensory array, whilst in the 2005 series episode \"Dalek\", they are integral to a Dalek's self-destruct mechanism. Their armour has a forcefield that evaporates most bullets and resists most types of energy weapons. The forcefield seems to be concentrated around the Dalek's midsection (where the mutant is located), as normally ineffective firepower can be concentrated on the eyestalk to blind a Dalek. Daleks have a very limited visual field, with no peripheral sight at all, and are relatively easy to hide from in fairly exposed places. Their own energy weapons are capable of destroying them. Their weapons fire a beam that has electrical tendencies, is capable of propagating through water, and may be a form of plasma or electrolaser. The eyepiece is a Dalek's most vulnerable spot; impairing its vision often leads to a blind, panicked firing of its weapon while exclaiming \"My vision is impaired; I cannot see!\" Russell T Davies subverted the catchphrase in his 2008 episode \"The Stolen Earth\", in which a Dalek vaporises a paintball that has blocked its vision while proclaiming \"My vision is \"not\" impaired!\"\n\nThe creature inside the mechanical casing is soft and repulsive in appearance and vicious in temperament. The first-ever glimpse of a Dalek mutant, in \"The Daleks\", was a claw peeking out from under a Thal cloak after it had been removed from its casing. The mutants' actual appearance has varied, but often adheres to the Doctor's description of the species in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" as \"little green blobs in bonded polycarbide armour\". In \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" a Dalek creature, separated from its casing, attacks and severely injures a human soldier; in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", there are two Dalek factions (Imperial and Renegade) and the creatures inside have a different appearance in each case, one resembling the amorphous creature from \"Resurrection\", the other the crab-like creature from the original Dalek serial. As the creature inside is rarely seen on screen, a common misconception exists that Daleks are wholly mechanical robots. In the new series Daleks are retconned to be mollusc-like in appearance, with small tentacles, one or two eyes, and an exposed brain.\n\nDaleks' voices are electronic; when out of its casing the mutant is only able to squeak. Once the mutant is removed, the casing itself can be entered and operated by humanoids; for example, in \"The Daleks\", Ian Chesterton (William Russell) enters a Dalek shell to masquerade as a guard as part of an escape plan.\nFor many years it was assumed that, due to their design and gliding motion, Daleks were unable to climb stairs, and that this was a simple way of escaping them. A cartoon from \"Punch\" pictured a group of Daleks at the foot of a flight of stairs with the caption, \"Well, this certainly buggers our plan to conquer the Universe\". In a scene from the serial \"Destiny of the Daleks\", the Doctor and companions escape from Dalek pursuers by climbing into a ceiling duct. The Fourth Doctor calls down, \"If you're supposed to be the superior race of the universe, why don't you try climbing after us?\" The Daleks generally make up for their lack of mobility with overwhelming firepower; a joke among \"Doctor Who\" fans says \"Real Daleks don't climb stairs; they level the building.\" Dalek mobility has improved over the history of the series: in their first appearance, \"The Daleks\", they were capable of movement only on the conductive metal floors of their city; in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" a Dalek emerges from the waters of the River Thames, indicating that they not only had become freely mobile, but are amphibious; \"Planet of the Daleks\" showed that they could ascend a vertical shaft by means of an external anti-gravity mat placed on the floor; \"Revelation of the Daleks\" showed Davros in his life-support chair and one of his Daleks hovering and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" depicted them as capable of hovering up a flight of stairs. Despite this, journalists covering the series frequently refer to the Daleks' supposed inability to climb stairs; characters escaping up a flight of stairs in the 2005 episode \"Dalek\" made the same joke, and were shocked when the Dalek began to hover up the stairs after uttering the phrase \"ELEVATE\", in a similar manner to their normal phrase \"EXTERMINATE\". The new series depicts the Daleks as fully capable of flight, even space flight.\n\nThe non-humanoid shape of the Dalek did much to enhance the creatures' sense of menace. A lack of familiar reference points differentiated them from the traditional \"bug-eyed monster\" of science fiction, which \"Doctor Who\" creator Sydney Newman had wanted the show to avoid. The unsettling Dalek form, coupled with their alien voices, made many believe that the props were wholly mechanical and operated by remote control.\n\nThe Daleks were actually controlled from inside by short operators, who had to manipulate their eyestalks, domes, and arms, as well as flashing the lights on their heads in sync with the actors supplying their voices. The Dalek cases were built in two pieces; an operator would step into the lower section, and then the top would be secured. The operators looked out between the cylindrical louvres just beneath the dome, which were lined with mesh to conceal their faces.\n\nIn addition to being hot and cramped, the Dalek casings also muffled external sounds, making it difficult for operators to hear the director's commands or studio dialogue. John Scott Martin, a Dalek operator from the original series, said that Dalek operation was a challenge: \"You had to have about six hands: one to do the eyestalk, one to do the lights, one for the gun, another for the smoke canister underneath, yet another for the sink plunger. If you were related to an octopus then it helped.\"\n\nFor \"Doctor Who\"'s 21st-century revival the Dalek casings retain the same overall shape and dimensional proportions of previous Daleks, although many details have been re-designed to give the Dalek a heavier and more solid look. Changes include a larger, more pointed base; a glowing eyepiece; an all-over metallic-brass finish (specified by Davies); thicker, nailed strips on the \"neck\" section; a housing for the eyestalk pivot; and significantly larger dome lights. The new prop made its on-screen debut in the 2005 episode \"Dalek\". These Dalek casings use a short operator inside the housing while the 'head' and eyestalk are operated via remote control. A third person, Nicholas Briggs, supplies the voice in their various appearances. In the 2010 season, a new, larger model appeared in several colours representing different parts of the Dalek command hierarchy.\n\nTerry Nation's original plan was for the Daleks to glide across the floor. Early versions of the Daleks rolled on nylon castors, propelled by the operator's feet. Although castors were adequate for the Daleks' debut serial, which was shot entirely at the BBC's Lime Grove Studios, for \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" Terry Nation wanted the Daleks to be filmed on the streets of London. To enable the Daleks to travel smoothly on location, designer Spencer Chapman built the new Dalek shells around miniature tricycles with sturdier wheels, which were hidden by enlarged fenders fitted below the original base. The uneven flagstones of Central London caused the Daleks to rattle as they moved and it was not possible to remove this noise from the final soundtrack. A small parabolic dish was added to the rear of the prop's casing to explain why these Daleks, unlike the ones in their first serial, were not dependent on static electricity drawn up from the floors of the Dalek city for their motive power.\n\nLater versions of the prop had more efficient wheels and were once again simply propelled by the seated operators' feet, but they remained so heavy that when going up ramps they often had to be pushed by stagehands out of camera shot. The difficulty of operating all the prop's parts at once contributed to the occasionally jerky Dalek movements. This problem has largely been eradicated with the advent of the \"new series\" version, as its remotely controlled dome and eyestalk allow the operator to concentrate on the smooth movement of the Dalek and its arms.\n\nThe staccato delivery, harsh tone, and rising inflection of the Dalek voice were initially developed by voice actors Peter Hawkins and David Graham, who would vary the pitch and speed of the lines according to the emotion needed. Their voices were further processed electronically by Brian Hodgson at the BBC Radiophonic Workshop. Although the exact sound-processing devices used have varied, the original 1963 effect used equalisation to boost the mid-range of the actor's voice, then subjected it to ring modulation with a 30 Hz sine wave. The distinctive harsh grating vocal timbre this produced has remained the pattern for all Dalek voices since (with the exception of those in the 1985 serial \"Revelation of the Daleks\", for which director Graeme Harper deliberately used less distortion).\n\nBesides Hawkins and Graham, other voice actors for the Daleks have included Roy Skelton, who first voiced the Daleks in the 1967 story \"The Evil of the Daleks\" and provided voices for five additional Dalek serials including \"Planet of the Daleks\", and for the one-off anniversary special \"The Five Doctors\". Michael Wisher, the actor who originated the role of Dalek creator Davros in \"Genesis of the Daleks\", provided Dalek voices for that same story, as well as for \"Frontier in Space\", \"Planet of the Daleks\", and \"Death to the Daleks\". Other Dalek voice actors include Royce Mills (three stories), Brian Miller (two stories), and Oliver Gilbert and Peter Messaline (one story). John Leeson, who performed the voice of K9 in several \"Doctor Who\" stories, and Davros actors Terry Molloy and David Gooderson also contributed supporting voices for various Dalek serials.\n\nSince 2005, the Dalek voice in the television series has been provided by Nicholas Briggs, speaking into a microphone connected to a voice modulator. Briggs had previously provided Dalek and other alien voices for Big Finish Productions audio plays, and continues to do so. In a 2006 BBC Radio interview, Briggs said that when the BBC asked him to do the voice for the new television series, they instructed him to bring his own analogue ring modulator that he had used in the audio plays. The BBC's sound department had changed to a digital platform and could not adequately create the distinctive Dalek sound with their modern equipment. Briggs went as far as to bring the voice modulator to the actors' readings of the scripts.\n\nManufacturing the props was expensive. In scenes where many Daleks had to appear, some of them would be represented by wooden replicas (\"Destiny of the Daleks\") or life-size photographic enlargements in the early black-and-white episodes (\"The Daleks\", \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\", and \"The Power of the Daleks\"). In stories involving armies of Daleks, the BBC effects team even turned to using commercially available toy Daleks, manufactured by Louis Marx & Co and Herts Plastic Moulders Ltd. Examples of this can be observed in the serials \"The Power of the Daleks\", \"The Evil of the Daleks\", and \"Planet of the Daleks\". Judicious editing techniques also gave the impression that there were more Daleks than were actually available, such as using a split screen in \"The Parting of the Ways\".\n\nFour fully functioning props were commissioned for the first serial \"The Daleks\" in 1963, and were constructed from BBC plans by Shawcraft Engineering. These became known in fan circles as \"Mk I Daleks\". Shawcraft were also commissioned to construct approximately 20 Daleks for the two Dalek movies in 1965 and 1966 (see below). Some of these movie props filtered back to the BBC and were seen in the televised serials, notably \"The Chase\", which was aired before the first movie's debut. The remaining props not bought by the BBC were either donated to charity or given away as prizes in competitions.\n\nThe BBC's own Dalek props were reused many times, with components of the original Shawcraft \"Mk I Daleks\" surviving right through to their final classic series appearance in 1988. But years of storage and repainting took their toll. By the time of the Sixth Doctor's \"Revelation of the Daleks\" new props were being manufactured out of fibreglass. These models were lighter and more affordable to construct than their predecessors. These newer models were slightly bulkier in appearance around the mid-shoulder section, and also had a redesigned skirt section which was more vertical at the back. Other minor changes were made to the design due to these new construction methods, including altering the fender and incorporating the arm boxes, collars, and slats into a single fibreglass moulding. These props were repainted in grey for the Seventh Doctor serial \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" and designated as \"Renegade Daleks\"; another redesign, painted in cream and gold, became the \"Imperial Dalek\" faction.\n\nNew Dalek props were built for the 21st century version of \"Doctor Who\". The first, which appeared alone in the 2005 episode \"Dalek\", was built by modelmaker Mike Tucker. Additional Dalek props based on Tucker's master were subsequently built out of fibreglass by Cardiff-based Specialist Models.\n\nWishing to create an alien creature that did not look like a \"man in a suit\", Terry Nation stated in his script for the first Dalek serial that they should have no legs. He was also inspired by a performance by the Georgian National Ballet, in which dancers in long skirts appeared to glide across the stage. For many of the shows, the Daleks were operated by retired ballet dancers wearing black socks while sitting inside the Dalek. Raymond Cusick was given the task of designing the Daleks when Ridley Scott, then a designer for the BBC, proved unavailable after having been initially assigned to their debut serial. An account in Jeremy Bentham's \"Doctor Who—The Early Years\" (1986) says that after Nation wrote the script, Cusick was given only an hour to come up with the design for the Daleks, and was inspired in his initial sketches by a pepper shaker on a table. Cusick himself, however, states that he based it on a man seated in a chair, and only used the pepper shaker to demonstrate how it might move. \n\nIn 1964 Nation told a \"Daily Mirror\" reporter that the Dalek name came from a dictionary or encyclopaedia volume, the spine of which read \"Dal – Lek\" (or, according to another version, \"Dal – Eks\"). He later admitted that this book and the origin of the Dalek name was completely fictitious, and that anyone bothering to check out his story would have found him out. The name had in reality simply rolled off his typewriter. Later, Nation was pleasantly surprised to discover that in Serbo-Croatian the word \"dalek\" means \"far\", or \"distant\".\n\nNation grew up during World War II, and remembered the fear caused by German bombings. He consciously based the Daleks on the Nazis, conceiving the species as faceless, authoritarian figures dedicated to conquest and complete conformity. The allusion is most obvious in the Dalek stories penned by Nation, in particular \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" (1964) and \"Genesis of the Daleks\" (1975).\n\nPrior to writing the first Dalek serial, Nation was a scriptwriter for comedian Tony Hancock. The two men had a falling out, and Nation either resigned or was fired. Hancock worked on several series proposals, one of which was called \"From Plip to Plop\", a comedic history of the world which would have ended with a nuclear apocalypse, the survivors being reduced to living in dustbin-like robot casings and eating radiation to stay alive. According to biographer Cliff Goodwin, when Hancock saw the Daleks, he allegedly shouted at the screen, \"That bloody Nation—he's stolen my robots!\"\n\nThe naming of early \"Doctor Who\" stories is complex and sometimes controversial. The first Dalek serial is called, variously, \"The Survivors\" (the pre-production title), \"The Mutants\" (its official title at the time of production and broadcast, later taken by another unrelated story), \"Beyond the Sun\" (used on some production documentation), \"The Dead Planet\" (the on-screen title of the serial's first episode), or simply \"The Daleks\".\n\nThe instant appeal of the Daleks caught the BBC off-guard, and transformed \"Doctor Who\" into a national phenomenon. Children were alternately frightened and fascinated by the alien look of the monsters, and the \"Doctor Who\" production office was inundated by letters and calls asking about the creatures. Newspaper articles focused attention on the series and the Daleks, further enhancing their popularity.\n\nNation jointly owned the intellectual property rights to the Daleks with the BBC, and the money-making concept proved nearly impossible to sell to anyone else; he was dependent on the BBC wanting to produce stories featuring the creatures. Several attempts to market the Daleks outside of the series were unsuccessful. Since Nation's death in 1997, his share of the rights is now administered by his former agent, Tim Hancock.\n\nEarly plans for what eventually became the 1996 \"Doctor Who\" television movie included radically redesigned Daleks whose cases unfolded like spiders' legs. The concept for these \"Spider Daleks\" was abandoned, but picked up again in several \"Doctor Who\" spin-offs.\n\nWhen the new series was announced, many fans hoped the Daleks would return once more to the programme. The Nation estate however demanded levels of creative control over the Daleks' appearances and scripts that were unacceptable to the BBC. Eventually the Daleks were cleared to appear in the first series.\n\nDalek in-universe history has seen many retroactive changes, which have caused continuity problems. When the Daleks first appeared, they were presented as the descendants of the Dals, mutated after a brief nuclear war between the Dal and Thal races 500 years ago. This race of Daleks is destroyed when their power supply is wrecked. However, when they reappear in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\", they have conquered Earth in the 22nd century. Later stories saw them develop time travel and a space empire. In 1975, Terry Nation revised the Daleks' origins in \"Genesis of the Daleks\", where the Dals were now called Kaleds (of which \"Daleks\" is an anagram), and the Dalek design was attributed to one man, the crippled Kaled chief scientist and evil genius, Davros. Instead of a short nuclear exchange, the Kaled-Thal war was portrayed as a thousand-year-long war of attrition, fought with nuclear, biological and chemical weapons which caused widespread mutations among the Kaled race. Davros experimented on living Kaled cells to find the ultimate mutated form of the Kaled species and placed the subjects in tank-like \"travel machines\" whose design was based on his own life-support chair.\n\n\"Genesis of the Daleks\" marked a new era for the depiction of the species, with most of their previous history either forgotten or barely referred to again. Future stories in the original \"Doctor Who\" series, which followed a rough story arc, would also focus more on Davros, much to the dissatisfaction of some fans who felt that the Daleks should take centre stage rather than merely becoming minions of their creator. Davros made his last televised appearance for 20 years in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", which depicted a civil war between two factions of Daleks. One faction, the \"Imperial Daleks\", were loyal to Davros, who had become their Emperor, whilst the other, the \"Renegade Daleks\", followed a black Supreme Dalek. By the end of the story, both factions have been wiped out and the Doctor has tricked them into destroying Skaro, though Davros escapes.\n\nA single Dalek appeared in \"Dalek\", written by Robert Shearman, which was broadcast on BBC One on 30 April 2005. This Dalek appeared to be the sole Dalek survivor of the Time War which had destroyed both the Daleks and the Time Lords. A Dalek Emperor returned at the end of the 2005 series, having rebuilt the Dalek race with genetic material harvested from human subjects. It saw itself as a god, and the new Daleks were shown worshipping it. These Daleks and their fleet were destroyed in \"The Parting of the Ways\". The 2006 season finale \"Army of Ghosts\"/\"Doomsday\" featured a squad of four Dalek survivors from the old Empire, known as the Cult of Skaro, led by a black Dalek known as \"Sec\", that had survived the Time War by escaping into the Void between dimensions. They emerged, along with the Genesis Ark, a Time Lord prison vessel containing millions of Daleks, at Canary Wharf due to the actions of the Torchwood Institute and Cybermen from a parallel world. This resulted in a Cyberman-Dalek clash in London, which was resolved when the Tenth Doctor caused both groups to be sucked back into the Void. The Cult survived by utilising an \"emergency temporal shift\" to escape.\n\nThese four Daleks - Sec, Jast, Thay and Caan - returned in the two-part story \"Daleks in Manhattan\"/\"Evolution of the Daleks\", in which whilst stranded in 1930s New York, they set up a base in the partially built Empire State Building and attempt to rebuild the Dalek race. To this end, Dalek Sec merges with a human being to become a Human/Dalek hybrid. The Cult then set about creating \"Human Daleks\" by \"formatting\" the brains of a few thousand captured humans, with the intention of producing hybrids which remain fully human in appearance but with Dalek minds. Dalek Sec, however, starts to become so human that he changes the DNA to make the hybrids more human. This angers the rest of the Cult, resulting in mutiny and the death of Sec, Thay and Jast as well as the wiping out of all the hybrids. This leaves Dalek Caan as the last Dalek in existence. When the Doctor makes Caan realise that he is the last of his kind, Caan uses emergency temporal shift and escapes once more.\n\nThe Daleks returned in the 2008 season's two-part finale, \"The Stolen Earth\"/\"Journey's End\", accompanied once again by their creator Davros. The story reveals that Caan's temporal shift sent him into the Time War whence he rescued Davros, in the process gaining the ability to see the future at the cost of his own sanity. Davros has created a new race using his own body's cells. The episode depicts a Dalek invasion of Earth, which with other planets is taken to the Medusa Cascade, led by a red Supreme Dalek, who has kept Caan and Davros imprisoned in \"The Vault\", a section of the Dalek flagship, the \"Crucible\". Davros and the Daleks plan to destroy reality itself with a \"reality bomb\" for which they need the stolen planets. The plan fails due to the interference of Donna Noble, a companion of the Doctor, and Caan himself, who has been manipulating events to destroy the Daleks after realising the severity of the atrocities they have committed. The Daleks returned in the 2010 episode \"Victory of the Daleks\", the third episode of the series; Daleks who escaped the destruction of Davros' empire fell back in time and, by chance, managed to retrieve the \"Progenitor\". This is a tiny apparatus which contains 'original' Dalek DNA. The activation of the Progenitor results in the creation of a \"new paradigm\" of Daleks. The New Paradigm Daleks deem their creators inferior and exterminate them; their creators make no resistance to this, deeming themselves inferior as well. They are organised into different roles (drone, scientist, strategists, supreme and eternal), which are identifiable with colour-coded armour instead of the identification plates under the eyestalk used by their predecessors. They escape the Doctor at the end of the episode via time travel with the intent to rebuild their Empire.\n\nThe Daleks only appeared briefly in subsequent finales \"The Pandorica Opens\"/\"The Big Bang\" (2010) and The Wedding of River Song (2011) as Steven Moffat decided to \"give them a rest\" and stated \"There's a problem with the Daleks. They are the most famous of the Doctor's adversaries and the most frequent, which means they are the most reliably defeatable enemies in the universe.\" They next appear in \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012), where the Daleks are shown to have greatly increased numbers and have a Parliament; in addition to the traditional \"modern\" Daleks, several designs from both the original and new series appear. All record of the Doctor is removed from their collective consciousness at the end of the episode. The Daleks then appear in the 50th Anniversary special \"The Day of the Doctor\", where they are seen being defeated in the Time War. In \"The Time of the Doctor\", the Daleks are one of the races that travel to Trenzalore and besiege it for centuries to stop the Doctor from releasing the Time Lords. Due to converting Tasha Lem into a Dalek puppet, they regain knowledge of the Doctor. In the end, they are the only enemy left, the others having retreated or been destroyed and nearly kill the near-death Doctor before the Time Lords intervene and grant him a new regeneration cycle. The Doctor then uses his regeneration energy to obliterate the Daleks on the planet.\n\nThe Twelfth Doctor's first encounter with the Daleks is in his second full episode, \"Into the Dalek\" (2014), where he encounters a damaged Dalek, which he names 'Rusty', aboard a human resistance ship. Left with the Doctor's love of the universe and his hatred of the Daleks, he spares its life; it assumes a mission to destroy other Daleks. In \"The Magician's Apprentice\"/\"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015), the Doctor is summoned to Skaro where he learns Davros is alive, but dying, and has rebuilt the Dalek Empire. He escapes Davros' clutches by enlivening the decrepit Daleks of Skaro's sewers, who tear the empire apart, leaving behind the Master (Michelle Gomez), who accompanied him to Skaro. In \"The Pilot\" (2017), the Doctor briefly visits a battle in the Dalek-Movellan war while trying to escape a time travelling enemy.\n\nDaleks have little, if any, individual personality, ostensibly no emotions other than hatred and anger, and a strict command structure in which they are conditioned to obey superiors' orders without question. Dalek speech is characterised by repeated phrases, and by orders given to themselves and to others. Unlike the stereotypical emotionless robots often found in science fiction, Daleks are often angry; author Kim Newman has described the Daleks as behaving \"like toddlers in perpetual hissy fits\", gloating when in power and flying into a rage when thwarted. They tend to be excitable and will repeat the same word or phrase over and over again in heightened emotional states, most famously \"Exterminate! Exterminate!\"\n\nDaleks are extremely aggressive, and seem driven by an instinct to attack. This instinct is so strong that Daleks have been depicted fighting the urge to kill or even attacking when unarmed. The Fifth Doctor characterises this impulse by saying, \"However you respond [to Daleks] is seen as an act of provocation.\" The fundamental feature of Dalek culture and psychology is an unquestioned belief in the superiority of the Dalek race, and their default directive is to destroy all non-Dalek life-forms. Other species are either to be exterminated immediately or enslaved and then exterminated once they are no longer useful.\n\nThe Dalek obsession with their own superiority is illustrated by the schism between the Renegade and Imperial Daleks seen in \"Revelation of the Daleks\" and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\": the two factions each consider the other to be a perversion despite the relatively minor differences between them. This intolerance of any \"contamination\" within themselves is also shown in \"Dalek\", \"The Evil of the Daleks\" and in the Big Finish Productions audio play \"The Mutant Phase\". This superiority complex is the basis of the Daleks' ruthlessness and lack of compassion. This is shown in extreme in \"Victory of the Daleks\", where the new, pure Daleks destroy their creators, impure Daleks, with the latters' consent. It is nearly impossible to negotiate or reason with a Dalek, a single-mindedness that makes them dangerous and not to be underestimated. The Eleventh Doctor (Matt Smith) is later puzzled in the \"Asylum of the Daleks\" as to why the Daleks don't just kill the sequestered ones that have \"gone wrong\". Although the Asylum is subsequently obliterated, the Prime Minister of the Daleks explains that \"it is offensive to us to destroy such divine hatred\", and the Doctor is sickened at the revelation that hatred is actually considered beautiful by the Daleks.\n\nDalek society is depicted as one of extreme scientific and technological advancement; the Third Doctor states that \"it was their inventive genius that made them one of the greatest powers in the universe.\" However, their reliance on logic and machinery is also a strategic weakness which they recognise, and thus use more emotion-driven species as agents to compensate for these shortcomings.\n\nAlthough the Daleks are not known for their regard for due process, they have taken at least two enemies back to Skaro for a \"trial\", rather than killing them immediately. The first was their creator, Davros, in \"Revelation of the Daleks\", and the second was the renegade Time Lord known as the Master in the 1996 television movie. The reasons for the Master's trial, and why the Doctor would be asked to retrieve the Master's remains, have never been explained on screen. The \"Doctor Who Annual 2006\" implies that the trial may have been due to a treaty signed between the Time Lords and the Daleks. The framing device for the \"\" audio plays is a Dalek trial to determine if Davros should be the Daleks' leader once more.\n\nSpin-off novels contain several tongue-in-cheek mentions of Dalek poetry, and an anecdote about an opera based upon it, which was lost to posterity when the entire cast was exterminated on the opening night. Two stanzas are given in the novel \"The Also People\" by Ben Aaronovitch. In an alternative timeline portrayed in the Big Finish Productions audio adventure \"The Time of the Daleks\", the Daleks show a fondness for the works of Shakespeare. A similar idea was satirised by comedian Frankie Boyle in the BBC comedy quiz programme \"Mock the Week\"; he gave the fictional Dalek poem \"Daffodils; EXTERMINATE DAFFODILS!\" as an \"unlikely line to hear in \"Doctor Who\"\".\n\nBecause the Doctor has defeated the Daleks so often, he has become their collective arch-enemy and they have standing orders to capture or exterminate him on sight. In later fiction, the Daleks know the Doctor as \"Ka Faraq Gatri\" (\"Bringer of Darkness\" or \"Destroyer of Worlds\"), and \"The Oncoming Storm\". Both the Ninth Doctor (Christopher Eccleston) and Rose Tyler (Billie Piper) suggest that the Doctor is one of the few beings the Daleks fear. In \"Doomsday\", Rose notes that while the Daleks see the extermination of five million Cybermen as \"pest control\", \"one Doctor\" visibly un-nerves them (to the point they physically recoil). To his indignant surprise, in \"Asylum of the Daleks\", the Eleventh Doctor (Matt Smith) learns that the Daleks have designated him as \"The Predator\".\n\nAs the Doctor escapes the Asylum (with companions Amy and Rory), a Dalek-converted-human (Oswin Oswald) prisoner provides critical assistance, which culminates in completely deleting the Doctor from the Dalek hive-consciousness (the PathWeb), thus wiping the slate entirely blank. However, this was reversed in \"The Time of the Doctor\", when the Daleks regained knowledge of the Doctor through the memory of an old acquaintance of the Doctor, Tasha Lem.\n\nA \"rel\" is a Dalek and Kaled unit of measurement. It was usually a measurement of time, with a duration of slightly more than one second, as mentioned in \"Doomsday\", \"Evolution of the Daleks\" and \"Journey's End\", counting down to the ignition of the reality bomb. (One earth minute most likely equals about 50 \"rels\".) However, in some comic books it was also used as a unit of velocity. Finally, in some cases it was used as a unit of hydroelectric energy (not to be confused with a vep, the unit used to measure artificial sunlight).\n\nThe \"rel\" was first used in the non-canonical feature film \"\", soon after appearing in early Doctor Who comic books.\n\nTwo \"Doctor Who\" movies starring Peter Cushing featured the Daleks as the main villains: \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\", and \"Daleks - Invasion Earth 2150 AD\", based on the television serials \"The Daleks\" and \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\", respectively. The movies were not direct remakes; for example, the Doctor in the Cushing films was a human inventor called \"Dr. Who\" who built a time-travelling device named \"Tardis\", instead of a mysterious alien who stole a device called \"the TARDIS\".\n\nFour books focusing on the Daleks were published in the 1960s. \"The Dalek Book\" (1964, written by Terry Nation and David Whitaker), \"The Dalek World\" (1965, written by Nation and Whitaker) and \"The Dalek Outer Space Book\" (1966, by Nation and Brad Ashton) were all hardcover books formatted like annuals, containing text stories and comics about the Daleks, along with fictional information (sometimes based on the television serials, other times made up for the books). Nation also published \"The Dalek Pocketbook and Space-Travellers Guide\", which collected articles and features treating the Daleks as if they were real. Four more annuals were published in the 1970s by World Distributors under the title \"Terry Nation's Dalek Annual\" (with cover dates 1976–1979, but published 1975–1978). Two original novels by John Peel, \"War of the Daleks\" (1997) and \"Legacy of the Daleks\" (1998), were released as part of the Eighth Doctor Adventures series of \"Doctor Who\" novels. A novella, \"The Dalek Factor\" by Simon Clark, was published in 2004, and two books featuring the Daleks and the Tenth Doctor (\"I am a Dalek\" by Gareth Roberts, 2006, and \"Prisoner of the Daleks\" by Trevor Baxendale, 2009) have been released as part of the New Series Adventures.\n\nNation authorised the publication of the comic strip \"The Daleks\" in the comic \"TV Century 21\" in 1965. The weekly one-page strip, written by Whitaker but credited to Nation, featured the Daleks as protagonists and \"heroes\", and continued for two years, from their creation of the mechanised Daleks by the humanoid Dalek scientist, Yarvelling, to their eventual discovery in the ruins of a crashed space-liner of the co-ordinates for Earth, which they proposed to invade. Although much of the material in these strips directly contradicted what was shown on television, some concepts like the Daleks using humanoid duplicates and the design of the Dalek Emperor did show up later on in the programme.\n\nAt the same time, a \"Doctor Who\" strip was also being published in \"TV Comic\". Initially, the strip did not have the rights to use the Daleks, so the First Doctor battled the \"Trods\" instead, cone-shaped robotic creatures that ran on static electricity. By the time the Second Doctor appeared in the strip in 1967 the rights issues had been resolved, and the Daleks began making appearances starting in \"The Trodos Ambush\" (TVC #788-#791), where they massacred the Trods. The Daleks also made appearances in the Third Doctor-era \"Dr. Who\" comic strip that featured in the combined \"Countdown/TV Action\" comic during the early 1970s.\n\nOther licensed appearances have included a number of stage plays (see Stage plays below) and television adverts for Wall's \"Sky Ray\" ice lollies (1966), Weetabix breakfast cereal (1977), Kit Kat chocolate bars (2001), and the ANZ Bank (2005). In 2003, Daleks also appeared in UK billboard ads for Energizer batteries, alongside the slogan \"Are You Power Mad?\"\n\n\n\n\nDaleks have made cameo appearances in television programmes and films unrelated to \"Doctor Who\" from the 1960s to the present day.\n\n\n\n\nDaleks have been referred to or associated in many musical compositions.\n\nDalek is also mentioned and pictured in the Doc Brown vs Doctor Who. Epic Rap Battles of History Season 2, being summoned by Brown to exterminate the Tenth Doctor.\n\nSamples of Dalek voices uttering the phrases \"the prisoners have escaped\" and \"exterminate them\" appear in the song \"Shakespeare's Tacklebox\" by the Australian band Spiderbait on their 1993 debut LP \"ShaShaVaGlava\".\n\nAt the 1966 Conservative Party conference in Blackpool, delegate Hugh Dykes publicly compared the Labour government's Defence Secretary Denis Healey to the creatures. \"Mr. Healey is the Dalek of defence, pointing a metal finger at the armed forces and saying 'I will eliminate you'.\"\n\nIn a British Government Parliamentary Debate in the House of Commons on 12 February 1968, the then Minister of Technology Tony Benn mentioned the Daleks during a reply to a question from the Labour MP Hugh Jenkins concerning the Concorde aircraft project. In the context of the dangers of solar flares, he said, \"Because we are exploring the frontiers of technology, some people think Concorde will be avoiding solar flares like Dr. Who avoiding Daleks. It is not like this at all.\"\n\nAustralian Labor Party luminary Robert Ray described his right wing Labor Unity faction successor, Victorian Senator Stephen Conroy, and his Socialist Left faction counterpart, Kim Carr, as \"factional Daleks\" during a 2006 Australian Fabian Society lunch in Sydney.\n\nDaleks have been used in political cartoons to caricature: Douglas Hurd, as the 'Douglek', in Private Eye's Dan Dire – Pilot of the Future; Tony Benn, John Birt, Tony Blair (also portrayed as Davros), Alastair Campbell, Alec Douglas-Home, Charles de Gaulle, Peter Mandelson, Mark Thompson.\n\nDaleks have appeared on magazine covers promoting \"Doctor Who\" since the \"Dalekmania\" fad of the 1960s. \"Radio Times\" has featured the Daleks on its cover several times, beginning with the 21–27 November 1964 issue which promoted \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\". Other magazines also used Daleks to attract readers' attention, including \"Girl Illustrated\".\n\nIn April 2005, \"Radio Times\" created a special cover to commemorate both the return of the Daleks to the screen in \"Dalek\" and the forthcoming general election. This cover recreated a scene from \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" in which the Daleks were seen crossing Westminster Bridge, with the Houses of Parliament in the background. The cover text read \"VOTE DALEK!\" In a 2008 contest sponsored by the Periodical Publishers Association, this cover was voted the best British magazine cover of all time. In 2013 it was voted \"Cover of the century\" by the Professional Publishers Association. The 2010 UK general election campaign also prompted a collector's set of three near-identical covers of the \"Radio Times\" on 17 April with exactly the same headline but with the newly redesigned Daleks in their primary colours representing the three main political parties, Red being Labour, Blue as Conservative and Yellow as Liberal Democrats.\n\nDaleks have been the subject of many parodies, including Spike Milligan's \"Pakistani Dalek\" sketch in his comedy series \"Q\", and Victor Lewis-Smith's \"Gay Daleks\". Occasionally the BBC has used the Daleks to parody other subjects: in 2002, BBC Worldwide published the \"Dalek Survival Guide\", a parody of \"The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbooks\". Comedian Eddie Izzard has an extended stand-up routine about Daleks, which was included in his 1993 stand-up show \"Live at the Ambassadors\". The Daleks made two brief appearances in a pantomime version of \"Aladdin\" at the Birmingham Hippodrome which starred \"Torchwood\" star John Barrowman in the lead role. A joke-telling robot, possessing a Dalek-like boom, and loosely modelled after the Dalek, also appeared in the \"South Park\" episode \"Funnybot\", even spouting out \"exterminate\". A Dalek can also be seen in the background at timepoints 1:13 and 1:17 in the Sam & Max animated series episode The Trouble With Gary. In the \"Community\" parody of \"Doctor Who\" called \"Inspector Spacetime\", they are referred to as Blorgons.\n\nThe BBC approached Walter Tuckwell, a New Zealand-born entrepreneur who was handling product merchandising for other BBC shows, and asked him to do the same for the Daleks and \"Doctor Who\". Tuckwell created a glossy sales brochure that sparked off a Dalek craze, dubbed \"Dalekmania\" by the press, which peaked in 1965.\n\nThe first Dalek toys were released in 1965 as part of the \"Dalekmania\" craze. These included battery-operated, friction drive and \"Rolykins\" Daleks from Louis Marx & Co., as well as models from Cherilea, Herts Plastic Moulders Ltd and Cowan, de Groot Ltd, and \"Bendy\" Daleks made by Newfeld Ltd. At the height of the Daleks' popularity, in addition to toy replicas, there were Dalek board games and activity sets, slide projectors for children and even Dalek playsuits made from PVC. Collectible cards, stickers, toy guns, music singles, punching bags and many other items were also produced in this period. Dalek toys released in the 1970s included a new version of Louis Marx's battery-operated Dalek (1974), a \"talking Dalek\" from Palitoy (1975) and a Dalek board game (1975) and Dalek action figure (1977), both from Denys Fisher. From 1988 to 2002, Dapol released a line of Dalek toys in conjunction with its \"Doctor Who\" action figure series.\n\nIn 1984, Sevans Models released a self-assembly model kit for a one-fifth scale Dalek, which \"Doctor Who\" historian David Howe has described as \"the most accurate model of a Dalek ever to be released\".. Comet Miniatures released two Dalek self-assembly model kits in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1992, Bally released a Doctor Who pinball machine which prominently featured the Daleks both as a primary playfield feature and as a motorised toy in the topper.\n\nBluebird Toys produced a Dalek-themed \"Doctor Who\" playset in 1998.\n\nBeginning in 2000, Product Enterprise (who later operated under the names \"Iconic Replicas\" and \"Sixteen 12 Collectibles\") produced various Dalek toys. These included Dalek \"Rolykins\" (based on the Louis Marx toy from 1965); push-along \"talking\" Daleks; Dalek \"Rollamatics\" with a pull back and release mechanism; and a remote control Dalek.\n\nIn 2005 Character Options was granted the \"Master Toy License\" for the revived \"Doctor Who\" series, including the Daleks. Their product lines have included static/push-along and radio controlled Daleks, radio controlled versions and radio controlled / 1:3 scale variants. The 12-inch remote control Dalek won the 2005 award for Best Electronic Toy of the Year from the Toy Retailers Association. Some versions of the 18-inch model included semi-autonomous and voice command-features. In 2008, the company acquired a license to produce Daleks of the various \"classic series\" variants. For the fifth revived series, both Ironside (Post-Time war Daleks in camouflage khaki), Drone (new, red) and, later, Strategist Daleks (new, blue) were released as both RC Infrared Battle Daleks and action figures.\n\nA pair of Lego based Daleks were included in the Lego Ideas \"Doctor Who\" set, and another appeared in the \"Lego Dimensions\" Cyberman Fun-Pack.\n\nLicensed \"Doctor Who\" games featuring Daleks include 1984's \"The Key to Time\", a text adventure game for the Sinclair ZX Spectrum. Daleks also appeared in minor roles or as thinly disguised versions in other, minor games throughout the 80s, but did not feature as central adversaries in a licensed game until 1992, when Admiral Software published \"Dalek Attack\". The game allowed the player to play various Doctors or companions, running them through several environments to defeat the Daleks. In 1997 the BBC released a PC game entitled \"Destiny of the Doctors\" which also featured the Daleks, among other adversaries.\n\nUnauthorized games featuring Daleks continued to appear through the 1990s and 2000s, including Dalek-based modifications of \"Dark Forces\", \"Quake\", and \"Half-Life\", and even more recently, a mod of \"\"; many of these can be found online, including an Adobe Flash game, \"Dalek:Dissolution Earth\". In 1998 \"QWho\", a modification for \"Quake\", featured the Daleks as adversaries. This also formed the basis of \"TimeQuake\", a total conversion written in 2000 which included other \"Doctor Who\" monsters such as Sontarans. Another unauthorised game is \"DalekTron\", a based on \"\" written to coincide with the 2005 series.\n\nOne authorised online game is \"The Last Dalek\", a Flash game created by New Media Collective for the BBC. It is based on the 2005 episode \"Dalek\" and can be played at the official BBC \"Doctor Who\" website. The \"Doctor Who\" website also features another game, \"Daleks vs Cybermen\" (also known as \"Cyber Troop Control Interface\"), based on the 2006 episode \"Doomsday\"; in this game, the player controls troops of Cybermen which must fight Daleks as well as Torchwood Institute members.\n\nOn 5 June 2010, the BBC released the first of four official computer games on its website, \"Doctor Who: The Adventure Games\", which are intended as part of the official TV series adventures. In the first of these, 'The City of the Daleks', the Doctor in his 11th incarnation and Amy Pond must stop the Daleks re-writing time and reviving Skaro, their homeland.\n\nThey also appear in the Nintendo DS and Wii games \"\" and \"\".\n\nSeveral Daleks appear in the iOS game \"\" as rare enemies the player faces, appearing only in the first and final levels.\n\nThe robot model \"883\" in the game \"Paradroid\" for the \"Commodore 64\" looks like a Dalek. The game was later ported to other platforms, and several free software clones have been developed since, among them \"Freedroid Classic\". Based on this game is a \"Diablo\" style role-playing game called \"Freedroid RPG\" where several Dalek-like robots appear. The base version is called \"Dalex\", its powerful, but slow weapon, the \"Exterminator\", is also available to the player.\n\nThe Daleks also appear in \"Lego Dimensions\" where they ally themselves with Lord Vortech and possess the size-altering scale keystone. When Batman, Gandalf, and Wyldstyle encounter them, they assume that they are allies of the Doctor and attack the trio. The main characters continue to fight the Daleks until they call the Doctor to save them. A Dalek saucer also appears in the level based on Metropolis, in which the top of it serves as the stage for the boss battle against Sauron and includes Daleks among the various enemies summoned to attack the player. A Dalek is also among the elements summoned by the player to deal with the obstacles in the \"Portal 2\" story level.\n\nDalek fans have been building life-size reproduction Daleks for many years. The BBC and Terry Nation estate officially disapprove of self-built Daleks, but usually intervene only if attempts are made to trade unlicensed Daleks and Dalek components commercially, or if it is considered that actual or intended use may damage the BBC's reputation or the Doctor Who/Dalek brand. The Crewe, Cheshire-based company \"This Planet Earth\" is the only business which has been licensed by the BBC and the Terry Nation Estate to produce full-size TV Dalek replicas, and by Canal+ Image UK Ltd. to produce full size Movie Dalek replicas commercially.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19996365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19996365", "title": "Death of Brandon Crisp", "text": "Death of Brandon Crisp\n\nBrandon Emmett Crisp (January 18, 1993 – c. October 13, 2008) was a teenage Canadian boy who disappeared on October 13, 2008, when he ran away from his home in Barrie, Ontario, Canada after his parents took away his Xbox 360 due to failing grades and excessive play of \"\". He was last seen alive on a nearby trail.\n\nHis body was found at the base of a tree in an overgrown area on November 5, a few kilometres away, by a party of hunters. An autopsy determined that he likely died of injuries due to a fall from a tree.\n\nOn October 13, 2008, Brandon was involved in an argument with his parents over what his parents described as obsessive playing of the video game \"\" on his Xbox 360, after they took the system away. Brandon filled a yellow and grey backpack with clothes and left home riding his bicycle. His parents allowed him to leave and expected \"he would be home later that day with his tail between his legs\".\n\nAccording to police, two witnesses claimed to have last seen him on a trail near Shanty Bay, Ontario. The first reported that he had seen him having mechanical trouble with his bicycle on the trail. The second witness reported seeing Brandon later walking along the trail further east, but due to communications mix-ups this information was not passed along to searchers until the end of October. Brandon's missing person file was flagged nationally by the Canadian Police Information Centre.\n\nBrandon's parents reported him to Barrie Police Service as missing on the morning of October 14. Police began their search October 18, using heat-sensitive cameras and officers with the K-9 unit. On October 20, police located his mountain bike, which had originally been abandoned near where he was last witnessed.\n\nConcerned members of the public organised their own search parties, at times consisting of more than 1,600 individuals, some from areas as far away as London, Ontario.\n\nOn October 27, Microsoft announced that they would be adding C$25,000 of matching funds to the reward already offered by a local newspaper and the Crisps' Internet service provider, bringing the total reward to $50,000. As the ground searches were progressing, there was also speculation that Brandon had been lured by a fellow Xbox Live player, despite there being no evidence for this; Microsoft offered assistance to the police effort by helping to identify players on Brandon's online friends list.\n\nPolice ended the ground search for Brandon on October 30, 2008, but made clear that the investigation was on-going and continuing around-the-clock. One week later, on November 5, hunters discovered Brandon's body in an overgrown area near what had been the police search area. An autopsy confirmed the identity of the teen via dental records and determined the cause of death to be \"injuries to the chest area that are consistent with a fall from a tree\". Barrie Police noted that no foul play was suspected, and that the investigation was ongoing to determine an exact timeline. Although a police spokesman stated \"We're doing the best to come up with the answers everybody wants\", no further details or updates have been released to the public.\n\nWithin a week of Brandon Crisp's disappearance the case received significant media coverage throughout Ontario. Toronto-based outlets such as \"The Toronto Star\", Citytv, CP24, and others covered the story, and national outlets such as the \"National Post\", CTV and CBC soon picked it up as well. A Facebook page started by Brandon's classmates at St. Joseph's Catholic High School in Barrie, titled \"Where is Brandon Crisp\", grew to almost 22,000 members by the time his body was found.\n\nThe news of the discovery of Brandon Crisp's body also made national news throughout Canada, with coverage on all major national TV networks and both Ontario and national newspapers. The Toronto Sun published it as the front-page headline and picture on November 6, 2008. Thousands of people also flooded the Facebook group and other internet forums with expressions of grief and sympathy for the family.\n\nThe story generated Internet coverage from bloggers and others trying to help find Brandon, such as the creation of the now-defunct website findbrandoncrisp.com, discussions of the video game related issues, and discussions of how the tragedy emotionally affected the community, police involved, and even strangers.\n\nThe report of Brandon's death also generated an amount of anonymous internet trolling, with many messages and photos posted to the Facebook group that most group members and friends found to be upsetting and disturbing, resulting in the group being shut down; an example of what Mattathias Schwartz of \"The New York Times\" has called \"Malwebolence\".\n\nBrandon Crisp was laid to rest in Barrie on November 14, 2008, in a service attended by more than 1,700 fellow students, friends, family, and community members. National media covered the service, featured as the lead-item on most Ontario newscasts. The Crisp family has created the \"Brandon Crisp Endowment Fund\", working with Canadian Tire's JumpStart charity program for assisting families in financial need to participate in minor sports and recreational activities. By October 2009 over $140,000 has been raised.\n\nBrandon's story continues to be referenced in discussions about video game addiction and influence, with debate about whether Brandon's obsession with the \"Call of Duty\" actually was a contributing factor to his death, or whether this case was just a tragedy that began with an ordinary teen-parent argument.\n\nOn March 6, 2009, the CBC's national news program \"The Fifth Estate\" aired an hour-long report on video game addiction and the Brandon Crisp story, titled \"Top Gun\", subtitled \"When a video gaming obsession turns to addiction and tragedy\". The program had sent a team to Barrie to interview Brandon's parents and friends before Brandon's body had been found, and those segments were combined with interviews of gaming industry representatives and others. While the program did acknowledge that video gaming was not directly responsible for Brandon's death, many journalists and bloggers felt that the program was not balanced and fair, singling out the video game industry and focusing less on the need for parents to educate themselves about video games. Columnist Steve Tilley of the \"Toronto Sun\" newspaper called the report \"Lazy, cheap and disappointingly one-sided\", though he does admit that the report succeeds \"in exploring why Brandon Crisp might have become so addicted to \"Call Of Duty 4\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2653130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2653130", "title": "Death of Keith Blakelock", "text": "Death of Keith Blakelock\n\nKeith Henry Blakelock was a London Metropolitan Police constable who was murdered on 6 October 1985 during rioting at the Broadwater Farm housing estate in Tottenham, north London. The trouble broke out after a local black woman died of heart failure during a police search of her home, and took place against a backdrop of unrest in several English cities and a breakdown of relations between the police and black communities.\n\nPC Blakelock had been assigned on the night of his death to Serial 502, a unit of 11 constables and one sergeant dispatched to protect firefighters. When the rioters forced the officers back, Blakelock stumbled and fell. Surrounded by a mob of around 50 people, he received over 40 injuries inflicted by machetes or similar, and was found with a six-inch-long knife in his neck, buried up to the hilt. He was the third officer to be killed in a riot in the London area since 1833, when PC Robert Culley was stabbed to death in Clerkenwell.\n\nDetectives came under enormous pressure to find those responsible, amid tabloid coverage that was sometimes openly racist. Faced with a lack of forensic evidence—because for several hours it had not been possible to secure the crime scene—the police arrested 359 people, interviewed most of them without lawyers, and laid charges based on untaped confessions. Three adults and three youths were charged with the murder; the adults, Winston Silcott, Engin Raghip and Mark Braithwaite (the \"Tottenham Three\"), were convicted in 1987. A widely supported campaign arose to overturn the convictions, which were quashed in 1991 when forensic tests cast doubt on the authenticity of detectives' notes from an interview in which Silcott appeared to incriminate himself. Two detectives were charged in 1992 with perverting the course of justice and were acquitted in 1994.\n\nPolice re-opened the murder inquiry in 1992 and again in 2003. Ten men were arrested in 2010 on suspicion of murder, and in 2013 one of them, Nicholas Jacobs, became the seventh person to be charged with Blakelock's murder, based largely on evidence gathered during the 1992 inquiry. He was found not guilty in April 2014.\n\nBlakelock and the other constables of Serial 502 were awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal for bravery in 1988. Their sergeant, David Pengelly, who—armed only with a shield and truncheon—placed himself in front of the crowd in an effort to save Blakelock and another officer, received the George Medal, awarded for acts of great bravery.\n\nKeith Henry Blakelock (28 June 1945 – 6 October 1985) was born in Sunderland. He joined the Metropolitan Police on 14 November 1980, and was assigned to a response team in Hornsey before becoming a home beat officer in Muswell Hill, north London. At the time of his death, he was married to Elizabeth Blakelock (later Johnson), with three sons, Mark, Kevin and Lee. Lee Blakelock, eight years old when his father died, became a police officer himself, joining Durham Constabulary in 2000. PC Blakelock is buried in East Finchley Cemetery.\n\nBroadwater Farm in Tottenham, in the Borough of Haringey, north London (N17), emerged from the British government's policy from the 1930s onwards of slum clearance, in which poorly maintained terraced houses were bulldozed to make way for high-rise social housing. Built between 1967 and 1973, the Farm consists of 1,063 flats (apartments) in 12 blocks raised on stilts, linked by first-floor outdoor connecting walkways; no homes or shops were built at ground level for fear of flooding from the nearby River Moselle. At the time of Blakelock's death, the estate housed 3,400 people, 49 percent white, 43 percent African-Caribbean.\nBritish journalist David Rose writes that by 1976 the Farm was already seen as a sink estate, and that by 1980 a Department of the Environment report had suggested demolition, although a regeneration project after the 1985 riots led to improvements. Sir Kenneth Newman, Metropolitan Police Commissioner from 1982 to 1987, regarded the estate as one of London's \"symbolic locations\", or potential no-go areas, along with Railton Road in Brixton; All Saints Road in Notting Hill; the Notting Hill Carnival; and the Stonebridge Estate in Harlesden. The 1986 Gifford Inquiry into the rioting criticized the police for having adopted this attitude.\n\nThe Royal Institute of British Architects blamed the unrest on Haringey Council's policy of \"using the estate as a gathering ground for its problem tenants\", combined with low rents that left no funds for adequate maintenance. The elevated linked walkways meant that the estate could be crossed without descending to street level. Combined with the ground-level parking spaces beloved of drug dealers, these had turned the estate into what commentators called a \"rabbit warren\" for criminals, to the point where residents were afraid to leave their homes. From May 1985 police entering the estate regularly faced lumps of concrete, bricks, bottles and beer barrels being thrown at them from the first-floor walkways. Dutch architectural historian Wouter Vanstiphout described the estate as it was at the time of the riots:\n\nThe riots in which Blakelock died took place within a wave of social unrest across England. Since the 1980 St. Pauls riot in Bristol, and particularly since the 1981 Brixton riot in south London, a series of incidents had sparked violent confrontations between black youths and largely white police officers. These riots largely took place in deprived areas with high rates of unemployment, with a significant of these riots taking places in areas with large ethnic minority communities.\n\nOn 9 September 1985, a month before Blakelock's murder, the arrest of a black man for a traffic offence triggered the 1985 Handsworth riots in Birmingham; two people were killed. On 28 September, a black woman, Dorothy \"Cherry\" Groce, was accidentally shot by police while they searched her home in Brixton looking for her son, Michael Groce, who was wanted on suspicion of robbery and firearms offences. Believing she had died in the shooting — in fact, she had survived but was left paralysed from the waist down — a group of protesters gathered outside Brixton police station, sparking the 1985 Brixton riot that saw police lose control of the area for 48 hours. A photojournalist, 29-year-old David Hodge, was killed when a breeze block was dropped on his head while he photographed the looting.\n\nRumours spread throughout London at the end of September 1985 that more rioting was imminent, including in Bermondsey and the Wood Green shopping centre near Broadwater Farm. On 1 October there were disturbances in Toxteth, Liverpool. The police searched all vehicles entering Broadwater Farm that day and the following day found a petrol bomb on the estate.\n\nOn Saturday, 5 October 1985, a week after the Brixton riot, police arrested Floyd Jarrett, a 24-year-old black man from Tottenham, on suspicion of being in a stolen car. It was a suspicion that turned out to be groundless, but a decision was made several hours later to search the home of his mother, Cynthia Jarrett, for stolen goods. In the course of the search she collapsed and died of heart failure. Rose writes that the pathologist, Walter Somerville, told the inquest that Mrs. Jarrett had a heart condition that meant she probably only had months to live.\n\nThe police, without a search warrant, had let themselves into the house using Floyd Jarrett's keys, without knocking or announcing themselves, while his mother and her family were watching television. The family said that an officer had pushed Mrs. Jarrett, causing her to fall. The officer denied this; the police said she had simply collapsed. When it became clear she had stopped breathing, the same officer tried to revive her using mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, to no avail. The pathologist testified at the inquest that the fall may have been a precipitating factor; the jury returned a verdict of accidental death, following the coroner's direction that such a verdict would mean Mrs. Jarrett had been pushed, but perhaps accidentally.\n\nAccording to Rose, Cynthia Jarrett's death was \"not just a spark but ... a flamethrower aimed at a powder keg\". Protesters began to gather outside Tottenham police station, a few hundred yards from Broadwater Farm, around 1:30 am on Sunday morning, 6 October. Four of the station's windows were smashed, but the Jarrett family asked the crowd to disperse. Later that day, two police officers were attacked with bricks and paving stones at the Farm, and a police inspector was attacked in his car.\n\nThe next few hours saw some of the most violent rioting the country had experienced. By early evening a crowd of 500 mostly young black men had gathered on the estate, setting fire to cars, throwing petrol bombs and bricks, and dropping concrete blocks and paving stones from the estate's outdoor walkways, knocking several police officers unconscious, despite their NATO helmets. The local council's community relations officer said there was a \"shifting convoy of ambulances: as soon as one was loaded up with injured officers, another would move up to take its place\".\n\nFour senior officers were in control of police deployment in the area that night: Chief Superintendent Colin Couch, who was the Tottenham Division Chief, Chief Superintendent David French, Superintendent William Sinclair and Chief Inspector John Hambleton. Apart from Blakelock's death, 250 police officers were injured, and two policemen and three journalists— one from the Press Association and two from the BBC—suffered gunshot wounds. At least 30 shots were fired from three firearms, the first time shots had been fired by rioters in Britain. At 9:45 pm the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Kenneth Newman, authorized the deployment of specialist police armed with plastic bullets and CS gas to be used \"as a last resort should all else fail\"; it would have been the first use of plastic bullets during a riot in Britain. The unit arrived at 10:20 pm, but the senior officers at the scene refused to use them, to the apparent dismay of junior officers. The rioting continued until the early hours of the morning.\n\nBlakelock was assigned on the night to Serial 502, a Metropolitan police unit consisting of a sergeant and 11 constables from Hornsey and Wood Green police stations. A \"shield serial\" was a unit equipped with shields, NATO helmets and a personnel carrier; expecting trouble, the Metropolitan Police had increased the deployment of these patrols across the capital. Serial 502 consisted of three Scots, three Londoners (including an officer originally from Jamaica), and officers from Cumbria, Gloucestershire, Merseyside, Sunderland, and Yorkshire.\n\nThey arrived at the estate's Gloucester Road entrance in their Sherpa van at around 7:45 pm, armed with truncheons and shields: three long riot shields and six round ones. At 9:30 pm Sgt David Pengelly led the unit onto the estate to protect firemen who had earlier attended a supermarket fire in the Tangmere block but had been forced out. Tangmere had been built as a ziggurat (with successively receding levels) with a shopping precinct on a mezzanine, as well as flats with balconies. According to PC Richard Coombes, several men shouted from one of the balconies that the supermarket was on fire. He feared that it was a trap.\n\nThe firemen made their way back up an enclosed staircase inside Tangmere with Serial 502 behind them. Dozens of rioters suddenly appeared at the top of the stairs. Pengelly explained that they were helping the firefighters put out a fire, then they would leave. Suddenly the rioters began blowing whistles, throwing bottles and hacking at the police shields with machetes. Pengelly ordered the officers and firefighters to retreat. They were forced to run backwards down the unlit narrow staircase, fearful of tripping over the fire hoses, which had been flat before but were now full of water. PC Coombes, armed with just a short truncheon, recalled that the noise—\"Kill the pigs!\"—was deafening, and he could barely see through the scratched Perspex visor on his helmet.\n\nThere were rioters at the bottom of the stairs too, wearing masks or crash helmets, and carrying knives, machetes, baseball bats, bricks, petrol bombs and paving stones. The bombs started exploding, the paving stones were thrown at the officers' helmets, and the riot shields were the only defence against the machetes. As the firefighters and police ran out of the stairwell toward a car park and a patch of grass, one of the firemen, Divisional Fire Officer Trevor Stratford, saw that Blakelock had tripped: \"He just stumbled and went down and they were upon him. It was just mob hysteria. ... There were about 50 people on him.\"\n\nThe rioters removed Blakelock's protective helmet, which was never found. The pathologist, David Bowen, found 54 holes in Blakelock's overalls, and 40 stabbing or slashing injuries, eight of them to his head, caused by a weapon such as a machete, axe or sword. A six-inch-long knife was buried in his neck up to the hilt. His body was covered in marks from having been kicked or stamped on. His hands and arms were badly cut, and he had lost several fingers trying to defend himself. There were 14 stab wounds on his back, one on the back of his right thigh, and six on his face. Stabbing injuries to his armpits had penetrated his lungs. His head had been turned to one side, and his jawbone smashed by a blow that left a six-inch gash across the right side of his head. Bowen said the force of this blow had been \"almost as if to sever his head\", which gave rise to the view that an attempt had been made to decapitate him.\n\nA second group surrounded PC Coombes, who sustained a five-inch-long cut to his face, had his neck slit open, and was left with broken upper and lower jaws. he was still suffering the effects of the attack, which the police regard as attempted murder, including constant pain, poor hearing and eyesight, epileptic fits, nightmares, and a memory so poor that he was left unable to read a book or drive. A third constable, Michael Shepherd, was hit by an iron spike; Shepherd collapsed next to Coombes and placed his shield over him to protect Coombes from the crowd, who were kicking and hitting them both. Several officers and firefighters turned and ran back toward the crowd to try to save Blakelock and Coombes. Trevor Stratford told a reporter in 2010: \"I remember running in with another fire officer to get Dick Coombes. I literally slid into the group, like a rugby player charging into a ruck. We dragged him out, but he was in a hell of a state\":\n\nBlakelock was taken by ambulance to the North Middlesex Hospital but died on the way. Coomes was taken to hospital by fire engine. Stratford was left with a spinal injury and 19-year-old PC Maxwell Roberts had been stabbed. Pengelly said in 2010 that, when the other officers got back to the safety of their van, \"We just sat there, numb with shock, and life was never the same again for any of us.\"\n\nRose writes that there was a racist media frenzy after the killing, placing intense external pressure on detectives to solve the case. \"The Sun\" newspaper reportedly compared the Labour leader of Haringey Council and Labour's prospective candidate for Tottenham, Bernie Grant—who had immigrated from Guyana in 1963—to an ape, writing that he had spoken to reporters while, in Rose's words, \"peeling a banana and juggling an orange\". Grant caused uproar with his comments after the killing. He told reporters that \"the police got a bloody good hiding\", and: \"Maybe it was a policeman who stabbed another policeman.\" Censured by Neil Kinnock, then Labour leader, Grant later described the violence as \"inexcusable\".\n\nThe Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Kenneth Newman, told reporters that groups of Trotskyists and anarchists had orchestrated the violence, a theme picked up by the \"Daily Telegraph\" and others. Falling for a story from media hoaxer Rocky Ryan, the \"Daily Express\" reported on 8 October 1985 that a \"Moscow-trained hit squad gave orders as mob hacked PC Blakelock to death\", alleging that \"crazed left-wing extremists\" trained in Moscow and Libya had coordinated the riots.\n\nThere was also internal pressure on detectives from the rank and file, who saw their superior officers as sharing the blame for Blakelock's death. The Police Federation's journal, \"Police\", argued that senior officers had pursued a policy at Broadwater Farm of avoiding confrontation at all costs, and that \"community policing\" had led to compromises with criminals, rather than maintaining a focus on upholding the law. As a result, the journal wrote, officers had failed to appreciate the seriousness of the situation that had developed on the estate.\n\nDetective Chief Superintendent Graham Melvin of the Serious Crime Squad was placed in charge of the investigation a few hours after the killing, at 2:00 am on 7 October. With 150 officers assigned full-time, the inquiry became the largest in the history of the Metropolitan Police. Born in Halifax in 1941, Melvin had joined the Metropolitan Police in 1960, then the Criminal Investigation Department. He had studied at Bramshill Police College, served with the Flying Squad, and was known for having solved several notorious cases, including that of Kenneth Erskine, the Stockwell Strangler. He became a detective chief superintendent in March 1985, when he joined the elite International and Organised Crime Squad (SO1).\n\nMelvin's first problem was that there was no forensic evidence. Senior officers had not allowed the estate to be sealed off immediately after the attack, which meant that the crime scene had not been secured. Witnesses and those directly involved had been allowed to leave without giving their names, and objects that might have held fingerprints had not been collected. Police had not been allowed into the estate in great numbers until 4 am on 7 October, by which time much of the evidence had disappeared. Whatever remained was removed during Haringey Council's clean-up operation.\n\nMelvin therefore resorted to arresting suspects—including juveniles, some of them regarded as vulnerable—and holding them for days without access to lawyers. Of the 359 people arrested in connection with the inquiry in 1985 and 1986, just 94 were interviewed in the presence of a lawyer. Many of the confessions that resulted, whether directly about the murder, or about having taken part in the rioting, were made before the lawyer was given access to the interviewee.\n\nWhen people did confess to even a minor role in the rioting, such as throwing a few stones, they were charged with affray. One resident told the 1986 Gifford Inquiry into the rioting: \"You would go to bed and you would just lie there and you would think, are they going to come and kick my door, what's going to happen to my children? ... It was that horrible fear that you lived with day by day, knowing they could come and kick down your door and hold you for hours.\" The inquiry heard that 9,165 police officers were either deployed on the estate or held in reserve between 10 and 14 October 1985. Thus, argues Rose, the police created, or at least intensified, a climate of fear in which witnesses were afraid to step forward.\n\nMelvin defended his decision to hold people without access to legal advice by arguing that lawyers, unwittingly or otherwise, might pass information they had gleaned during interviews to other suspects. He said under cross-examination during the 1987 murder trial that, in his view, \"the integrity of some firms of solicitors left a lot to be desired\"; he believed solicitors were being retained by people who had an interest in learning what other suspects had said. The Crown prosecutor, Roy Amlot QC, told the court, during the first trial, that the police had one effective weapon, namely that suspects did not know who else had spoken to police and what they had said, and that \"the use of that weapon by the police was legitimate and effective\".\n\nMark Pennant, aged 15, was arrested on 9 October 1985 and charged with murder two days later, the first to be charged. Born in England to West-Indian parents, Pennant had been raised in the West Indies until he was nine, after which he returned to the UK; he was diagnosed with learning difficulties and was attending a special school. Arrested and handcuffed at school, he was taken to Wood Green Police Station and interviewed six times over the course of two days, with a teacher in attendance. His mother was not told that he had been taken into custody, and the police reportedly told him that she had refused to help him. He told the police that he had cut Blakelock and kicked him twice, and he named Winston Silcott as the ringleader, and several others, including another juvenile, Mark Lambie. When charged with the murder, he asked the teacher who accompanied him: \"Does that mean I have to go and live with you?\"\n\nJason Hill, a 13-year-old white boy who lived on Broadwater Farm, was seen looting from a store in the Tangmere block during the riot, near where Blakelock was killed. He was arrested on 13 October and taken to Leyton Police Station, where he was held for three days without access to a lawyer. He reported being kept in a very hot cell, which he said made sleeping and even breathing difficult. His clothes and shoes were removed for forensic tests and he was interviewed wearing only underpants and a blanket, the latter of which by the third day of detention was stained with his own vomit. Hyacinth Moody of the Haringey Community Relations Council sat in as an \"appropriate adult\"; she was criticized by the judge for having failed to intervene.\n\nOver the course of several interviews, Hill told police that he had witnessed the attack and named Silcott and others, including Mark Lambie. He described almost a ritualistic killing and said that Silcott—whom he called \"Sticks\"—had forced him to make his \"mark\" on Blakelock with a sword. According to David Rose, Hill described inflicting injuries to Blakelock's chest and leg that did not match the autopsy report. After he had cut Blakelock, Hill said, Silcott told him he was cool and asked what he had seen. Hill said he had replied, \"Nothing\", and that Silcott had said, \"Well, you can go.\" Hill said the aim of the attack had been to decapitate Blakelock and put his head on a stick. In 1991 he told Rose that, throughout the interview, the police had said, \"Go on, admit it, you had a stab,\" and \"It was Sticks, wasn't it?\" He said they had threatened to keep him in the station for two weeks and said he would never see his family again. \"They could have told me it was Prince Charles and I would have said it was him.\"\n\nMark Lambie, aged 14, was the third juvenile to be charged with murder. He was named by Mark Pennant and Jason Hill, and was interviewed with his father and a solicitor present. Lambie admitted to having taken part in the rioting, but denied involvement in the murder. One witness said during the trial that he had seen Lambie force his way through the crowd to reach Blakelock, although the testimony was discredited; the witness was caught in several lies and admitted he had offered evidence only to avoid a prison sentence. (Seventeen years later, in May 2002, Lambie was jailed for 12 years for kidnap and blackmail after detaining and torturing two men; newspapers described him at that time as a Yardie gang leader.)\n\nAccording to David Rose, a former detective inspector called the Blakelock investigation a \"pre-scientific inquiry, it was all about how to get Winston Silcott convicted, not discovering who killed Keith Blakelock.\" By the time of the murder, local police saw Silcott as the \"biggest mafioso in Tottenham ... running the mugging gangs, paying them with drugs\", according to another former senior officer in Tottenham.\n\nSilcott was 26 years old when he was arrested, the oldest of the six charged with murder. He was born in Tottenham in 1959; his parents, both Seventh-day Adventists, had arrived in England from Montserrat two years earlier. He told Rose that he had experienced racism throughout his entire upbringing, particularly from the police. After leaving school at 15, he took a series of low-paying jobs and in 1976 began breaking into houses. The following year he was convicted of nine counts of burglary and sent to borstal for a few months, and in 1979 he was sentenced to six months for wounding. In September 1980 he stood trial for the murder of 19-year-old Lennie McIntosh, a postal worker, who was stabbed and killed at a party in Muswell Hill in 1979. The first trial resulted in a hung jury; a second trial saw him acquitted.\n\nIn 1983 Silcott was given a government grant to open a greengrocer's on the deck of the Tangere block of Broadwater Farm. More convictions followed: in October that year he was fined for possessing a flick knife and in March 1984 for obstructing police. In 1985 he made the news when he told Diana, Princess of Wales, who was on an official visit to Broadwater Farm, that she should not have come without bringing jobs, which \"The Sun\" interpreted as a threat.\n\nIn December 1984 Silcott was arrested for the murder of a 22-year-old boxer, Anthony Smith, at a party in Hackney. Smith had been slashed more than once on his face, there were two wounds to his abdomen, a lung had been lacerated and his aorta cut. Silcott was charged with the murder in May 1985 and was out on bail when Blakelock was killed in October that year. At first he told police he had not known Smith and had not been at the party, although at trial he acknowledged having been there. He said Smith had started punching him, and that he had pushed Smith back but had not been carrying a knife. Silcott was convicted of Smith's murder in February 1986, while awaiting trial for the Blakelock murder, and was sentenced to life imprisonment; he was released in 2003 after serving 17 years. After the conviction he told his lawyer he had indeed known Smith, that there had been bad blood between them, and that he had stabbed the man in self-defence, because one of Smith's friends had had a knife.\n\nKnown as \"Sticks\" locally, Silcott was living in the Martlesham block of Broadwater Farm at the time of the riots, and was running his greengrocer's shop in the Tangmere block, the block near the spot where Blakelock was killed. He told David Rose in 2004 that he had been in the Tangmere block on the night of the death, and had stopped someone from throwing a scaffolding pole through the window of his shop. A friend of his, Pam, had then invited him to her apartment to keep him out of trouble. He told Rose: \"And look, I'm on bail for a murder. I know I'm stupid, but I'm not that stupid. There's helicopters, police photographers everywhere. All I could think about was that I didn't want to lose my bail.\" He said he had first learned of Blakelock's death when he heard cheering in the apartment he was staying in, in response to a news report about it.\n\nSilcott was arrested for Blakelock's murder on 12 October 1985, six days after the riot; he was interviewed five times over 24 hours; Det Ch Supt Melvin asked the questions and Det Insp Maxwell Dingle took the notes. During the first four interviews, Silcott stayed mostly silent and refused to sign the detectives' notes, but during the fifth interview on 13 October, when Melvin said he knew Silcott had struck Blakelock with a machete or sword, his demeanour changed, according to the notes.\n\nThe notes show him asking: \"Who told you that?\" When the detectives said they had witnesses, he reportedly said: \"They are only kids. No one is going to believe them.\" The notes say he walked around the interview room with tears in his eyes, saying: \"You cunts, you cunts\", and \"Jesus, Jesus\", then: \"You ain't got enough evidence. Those kids will never go to court. You wait and see. No one else will talk to you. You can't keep me away from them.\" The notes show him saying of the murder weapons: \"You're too slow, man, they gone.\" He was at that point charged with murder, to which he reportedly responded: \"They won't give evidence against me.\" It was this interview that led to Silcott's conviction for murder being overturned. According to a scientist who conducted forensic tests on the original interview notes, the detectives' notes from the portion of the interview in which Silcott appeared to incriminate himself had been inserted after the other interview notes were written.\n\nNineteen-year-old Engin Raghip, of Turkish–Cypriot descent, was arrested on 24 October 1985 after a friend mentioned his name to police, the only time anyone had linked him to the murder. During his trial, the court heard from an expert that Raghip was \"in the middle of the mildly mentally handicapped range\", although this testimony was withheld from the jury. His mental impairment became a key issue during his successful appeal in 1991 in \"R v Raghip and others\", when the court accepted that it had rendered his confession unsafe.\n\nRaghip's parents had moved from Cyprus to England in 1956. Raghip left school at age 15, illiterate, and by the time of the murder had three convictions, one for burglary and two for stealing cars. He had a common-law wife, Sharon Daly, with whom he had a two-year-old boy, and he worked occasionally as a mechanic. He had little connection with Broadwater Farm, although he lived in nearby Wood Green and had gone to the Farm with two friends to watch the riot, he said. One of those friends, John Broomfield, gave an interview to the \"Daily Mirror\" on 23 October 1985, boasting about his involvement. When Broomfield was arrested, he implicated Raghip. Broomfield was later convicted of an unrelated murder.\n\nAt the time of Raghip's arrest, he had been drinking and smoking cannabis for several days, and his common-law wife had just left him, taking their son with her. He was held for two days without representation, first speaking to a solicitor on the third day, who said he had found Raghip distressed and disoriented. He was interviewed by Det Sgt van Thal and Det Insp John Kennedy ten times over a period of four days. He made several incriminating statements, first that he had thrown stones, then during the second interview that he had seen the attack on Blakelock. During the third, he said he had spoken to Silcott about the murder, and that Silcott owned a hammer with a hook on one side. After the fifth interview he was charged with affray, and during the sixth he described the attack on Blakelock: \"It was like you see in a film, a helpless man with dogs on him. It was just like that, it was really quick.\" He did not sign this interview, Rose writes, and after it he vomited.\n\nDuring a seventh interview the next day, Raghip described noises he said Blakelock had made during the attack. During the eighth interview, he said he had armed himself that night with a broom handle, and had tried to get close to what was happening to Blakelock, but there were too many people around him: \"I had a weapon when I was running toward the policeman, a broom handle.\" He said he might have kicked or hit him had he been able to get close enough. Rose writes that Raghip also offered the order in which Blakelock's attackers had launched the assault. He was held for another two days, released on bail, then charged with murder six weeks later, in December 1985, under the doctrine of common purpose.\n\nAged 18 when Blakelock was killed, Mark Braithwaite was a rapper and disc jockey living with his parents in Islington, London, N1. He had a girlfriend who lived on Broadwater Farm, with whom he had a child. On 16 January 1986, three months after the murder, his name was mentioned for the first time to detectives by a man they had arrested, Bernard Kinghorn. Kinghorn told them he had seen Braithwaite, whom he said he knew only by sight, stab Blakelock with a kitchen knife. Kinghorn later withdrew the allegation, telling the BBC three years later that it had been false.\n\nBraithwaite was taken to Enfield Police Station and interviewed by Det Sgt Dermot McDermott and Det Con Colin Biggar. He was held for three days and was at first denied access to a lawyer, on the instruction of Det Ch Supt Melvin. He was interviewed eight times over the first two days, and with a lawyer present four times on the third. During the first 30 hours of his detention he had nothing to eat, and said in court—as did several other suspects—that the heat in the cells was oppressive, making it difficult to breathe.\n\nHe at first denied being anywhere near the Farm, then during interview four said he had been there and had thrown stones, and during interview five said he had been at the Tangmere block, but had played no role in the murder. During interview six, he said he had hit Blakelock with an iron bar in the chest and leg. Rose writes that there were no such injuries on Blakelock's body. In a seventh interview, he said he had hit a police officer, but that it was not Blakelock. On the basis of this confession evidence, he was charged with murder.\n\nForty-nine men and youths were convicted of offences arising from the riots, out of 359 arrested and 159 charged, not counting the six murder defendants. The trial of the six—Silcott, Raghip and Braithwaite, the adults; and Pennant, Hill and Lambie, the youths—began in court number two of the Old Bailey on 19 January 1987. All the men were charged with murder, riot, and affray; Lambie was also charged with throwing petrol bombs.\n\nThe jury consisted of eight white men, two black women and two white women. They were not told that it was Silcott's fourth murder trial, that he had been out on bail for the murder of Anthony Smith when Blakelock was killed, or that he had subsequently been convicted of that murder. Silcott's barrister, Barbara Mills, a future Director of Public Prosecutions, decided that he should not take the stand to avoid exposing him to questions about his previous convictions. The effort to avoid introducing the conviction for the murder of Anthony Smith worked against Silcott too. It meant that the jury could not be told that he had signed on for his bail at Tottenham police station at around 7 pm on the evening of Blakelock's death. This was when witnesses had placed Silcott at a Broadwater Youth Association meeting, making inflammatory speeches against the police.\n\nRoy Amlot QC told the court that Blakelock had been stabbed 40 times by at least two knives and a machete. There were eight injuries to his head, and one of the weapons had penetrated his jawbone. In the view of the prosecution, the killers had intended to decapitate him and place his head on a pole. The press coverage of the trial included the publication on day two, by \"The Sun\", of a notorious close-up of a half-smiling Silcott, one that \"created a monster to stalk the nightmares of Middle England\", as journalist Kurt Barling put it. Silcott said he had been asleep in a police cell when it was taken; he said he was woken up, held in a corridor with his arms pinned against a wall and photographed, and that the expression on his face was one of fear. Its publication constituted \"the most gross contempt\", according to the trial judge, Sir Derek Hodgson, speaking to David Rose in 1992. No action was taken against the newspaper.\n\nThe judge dismissed the charges against the youths because they had been detained without access to parents or a lawyer; in the absence of the jury, the judge was highly critical of the police on that point. Four armoured police vehicles waited in Tottenham as the jury deliberated for three days. They returned on 19 March 1987 with a unanimous guilty verdict against Silcott, Raghip and Braithwaite; the men were sentenced to life imprisonment, with a recommendation that Silcott serve at least 30 years. One black female juror fainted when the verdicts were read out. Rose writes that the tabloids knew no restraint, writing about the beasts of Broadwater Farm, hooded animals and packs of savages, with the old jail-cell image of Silcott published above captions such as \"smile of evil\".\n\nA campaign to free the \"Tottenham Three\" gathered pace, organized by the Broadwater Farm Defence Campaign. They published an 18-page report in 1987 by Margaret Burnham and Lennox Hinds, two American law professors who had attended part of the trial, and who wrote that Silcott's conviction \"represents a serious miscarriage of justice\". Rose writes that the \"New Statesman\" and \"Time Out\" wrote sympathetic pieces, and MPs and trade unionists were lobbied. In May 1989 the London School of Economics students' union elected Silcott as the college's honorary president, to the dismay of its director and governors. Silcott resigned shortly afterwards, saying he did not want the students to become scapegoats.\n\nEngin Raghip's solicitor was by now Gareth Peirce—who had represented the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six—and his barrister Michael Mansfield. Peirce applied for leave to appeal. She began to explore Raghip's mental state, arguing that his confession could not be relied upon, and arranged for him to be examined by Dr. Gísli Guðjónsson of the Institute of Psychiatry, a specialist in suggestibility. Guðjónsson concluded that Raghip was unusually suggestible, with a mental age of between 10 and 11. Silcott was again represented by Barbara Mills and Braithwaite by Steven Kamlish. Mills noted the lack of photographic or scientific evidence, and argued that Silcott would have been unlikely to stop firefighters from extinguishing a fire on the deck of the Tangmere block, given that he was renting a shop there.\n\nLord Lane, then Lord Chief Justice of England, dismissed the applications on 13 December 1988, arguing of Raghip that the jury had had ample opportunity to form its own opinion of him. Amnesty International criticized the decision, pointing to the problems with confessions made in the absence of a lawyer, and was criticized in turn by Home Secretary Douglas Hurd, who said Amnesty had abandoned its impartiality.\n\nThere was disquiet that the application to appeal had failed. During a BBC \"Newsnight\" discussion, Lord Scarman, a former Law Lord, said the convictions ought to be overturned. Gareth Peirce obtained another psychologist's report about Raghip and, supported by Raghip's MP Michael Portillo, asked the Home Secretary to review the case. She also submitted an application to the European Court of Human Rights, arguing that the way Raghip had been interviewed breached the European Convention on Human Rights. In December 1990 Home Secretary Kenneth Baker referred Raghip's case back to the Court of Appeal.\n\nIn parallel with the efforts of Pierce, Silcott's lawyers had requested access in November 1990 to his original interview notes, so that the seven pages from his crucial fifth interview—the notes he said were fabricated—could be submitted for an electrostatic detection analysis (ESDA). The test can identify a small electrostatic charge left on a page when the page above it is written on; in this way, the test's developers say, the chronological integrity of interview notes can be determined.\n\nIn Silcott's case, according to the scientist who conducted the ESDA test, Robert Radley, the notes from the section of the fifth interview in which Silcott appeared to incriminate himself had been inserted after the other notes were written. The seventh and final page of the fifth interview, where the participants would normally sign, was missing. The ESDA test suggested that, on the third to sixth pages of the interview, no impressions had been left from previous pages, although these earlier impressions appeared throughout the rest of the notes. According to Will Bennett in \"The Independent\", the test \"also revealed an imprint of a different page five from the one submitted in evidence which was clearly the same interview with Silcott but in which he made no implicit admissions\". In addition to this, David Baxendale, a Home Office forensic scientist who was asked to investigate by Essex police, said that the paper on which the disputed notes were written came from a different batch of paper from the rest of the interview.\n\nThe disputed section of the interview had been written down by Det Insp Maxwell Dingle. It said that, when the police told Silcott that they had witness statements saying he had attacked Blakelock, Silcott replied: \"They are only kids. No one is going to believe them\"; he reportedly said later: \"Those kids will never go to court, you wait and see.\" As a result of the ESDA test evidence, the Home Secretary added Silcott and Braithwaite to Raghip's appeal.\n\nThe Court of Appeal heard Silcott's appeal on 25 November 1991 and took just 90 minutes to overturn the conviction, delivering its 74-page decision on 5 December. Raghip and Braithwaite's appeal was heard a few days later and was also swiftly overturned. \"R v Raghip and others\" is regarded as a landmark ruling because it recognized that \"interrogative suggestibility\" might make a confession unreliable.\n\nThe court heard that Silcott's interview notes were contaminated, and that Raghip's suggestibility and Braithwaite's having been denied a lawyer rendered their confessions unreliable. The Crown prosecutor, Roy Amlot, conceded that the apparent contamination rendered all three convictions unsafe: \"[W]e would not have gone on against Braithwaite, against Raghip, against any other defendants, having learned of the apparent dishonesty of the officer in charge of the case. I say that because the Crown has to depend on the honesty and integrity of officers in a case ... The impact is obviously severe.\" Rose writes that the statement was \"one of the more sensational speeches in English legal history.\"\n\nBraithwaite and Raghip were released immediately. Silcott remained in jail for the 1984 murder of Anthony Smith. He received £17,000 compensation in 1991 for his conviction in the Blakelock case, and in 1995 was offered up to £200,000 in legal aid to sue the police for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. The Metropolitan Police settled out of court in 1999, awarding him £50,000 for false imprisonment and malicious prosecution. He was released on licence in October 2003 having served 17 years for Smith's murder.\n\nA second criminal inquiry was opened in 1992 under Commander Perry Nove, who appealed for help from the local black community. In January 1993 the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) drew a distinction between the \"kickers and the stabbers\"—those who had kicked or punched Blakelock and those who had used weapons—and decided that the former could be called as witnesses in exchange for immunity from prosecution. By the end of 1993, Rose writes, Nove had identified nine suspects against whom at least two eyewitnesses would testify, supported by evidence such as photographs. The suspect list included Nicholas Jacobs, who in 2014 would be tried for Blakelock's murder, based on statements gathered during the Nove investigation, and acquitted. It transpired during Jacobs' trial that two of the witnesses who testified against him had been paid expenses to the tune of thousands of pounds during Nove's inquiry.\n\nIn parallel with the second investigation, a case was being prepared against Det Ch Supt Melvin and Det Insp Dingle. In July 1992 Melvin was charged with perjury and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, and Dingle with conspiracy. In 1994 their lawyers applied for access to information from Nove's inquiry, on the grounds that it might help their clients; anything that implicated Silcott would support the detectives' contention that their interview notes were genuine and that Silcott had, in effect, confessed. The lawyers argued that the detectives should not be prosecuted until all related criminal proceedings had concluded. Nove fought the application because he had promised his witnesses confidentiality, but he agreed to give the lawyers access to relevant passages from seven witness statements that implicated Silcott. The witnesses themselves refused to testify, so the passages were read out to the jury during the detectives' trial. According to Rose, only one of the statements seriously implicated Silcott, alleging that he had acted \"like a general, sending out his little troops\", and that he had joined in the attack himself. The day before the detectives' trial began in 1994, the Crown Prosecution Service announced that the nine suspects would not be prosecuted because it was not in the public interest.\n\nThe trial of Det Ch Supt Melvin and Det Insp Dingle opened in June 1994 at the Old Bailey before Mr. Justice Jowitt. Only three people had been present during the disputed interview with Silcott—Melvin, Dingle and Silcott himself—and none of them gave evidence.\n\nDavid Calvert-Smith, for the prosecution, alleged that the detectives' reportedly contemporaneous notes of the fifth interview with Silcott had been altered after the fact to include the self-incriminating remarks. Silcott had refused to answer questions during the first four interviews. During the fifth, when told there were witness statements that he had struck Blakelock with a machete or similar, the notes show him saying: \"Those kids will never go to court. You wait and see. No one else will talk to you. You can't keep me away from them.\" Silcott denied ever having said those words.\n\nRichard Ferguson QC, for the defence, argued that the ESDA test, which suggested that the disputed words had been added to the notes later, was not reliable. The defence also produced 14 witness statements from the two Blakelock inquiries, seven of them excerpts from Nove's 1992–1994 inquiry and seven from the original investigation in 1985; the latter were read out to the jury as statements H to N. One of the 1985 statements said that Silcott had been carrying a knife with a two-foot-long blade on the night of the murder, and that he had attacked Blakelock.\n\nSeveral of the statements H–N originated from the juveniles who had been arrested shortly after the murder. They included Jason Hill, the 13-year-old who had been held for three days in his underpants and a blanket, without access to his parents or a lawyer. (Hill received £30,000 in damages from the police over his treatment.) Hill had not been told that his statement was going to be read out in court during the detectives' trial; he first learned that it had been used when he heard it on television. Another statement was from Mark Pennant, also a juvenile who had been arrested during the first inquiry. Overall it appeared that Silcott was being retried.\n\nThe detectives were acquitted on 26 July 1994 by a unanimous verdict. Both had been suspended during the case. Dingle retired immediately. Melvin was greeted as a hero when he returned to work, but he retired three months later.\n\nIn March 1999 the Metropolitan Police included Blakelock's killing in a review of 300 unsolved murders in London going back to 1984, when details were first recorded on computer. In December 2003, weeks after Silcott was released from jail after serving 17 years for the murder of Anthony Smith, police announced that the Blakelock investigation had been re-opened, and would be led by Det Supt John Sweeney.\n\nDetectives began re-examining 10,000 witness statements, and submitting items for forensic tests not available in 1985. In September 2004 the back garden of a terraced council house in Willan Road, near the Broadwater Farm estate, was excavated after a tip-off. A female friend of Cynthia Jarrett, the woman whose death sparked the Broadwater Farm riot, lived alone at the house between 1984 and 1989, and according to the \"Evening Standard\" was one of the first on the scene when police raided Jarrett's house. Archaeologists dug up the garden, while surveyors used infra-red beams to create a three-dimensional map of the area. A machete was found and sent for forensic tests. Police also searched the garden for Blakelock's truncheon and helmet. In October 2004 his overalls were retrieved from Scotland Yard's Crime Museum for DNA tests. Nothing was found that could be used as evidence.\n\nSix years later, between February and October 2010, 10 men between the ages of 42 and 52 were arrested on suspicion of Blakelock's murder. The first to be arrested, in February, was Nicholas Jacobs, who had been questioned in 1985 in connection with Blakelock's death and had been convicted of affray. Jacobs was one of nine suspects that the Crown Prosecution Service had decided not to charge with Blakelock's murder at the conclusion of Commander Perry Nove's 1992–1994 inquiry. Nothing appeared to come of the arrests. In October 2010, to mark the 25th anniversary, the BBC's \"Crimewatch\" staged a reconstruction and appealed for information.\n\nIn July 2013 the Crown Prosecution Service announced that, although suspicions remained about six of those arrested, no action would be taken against five of them because of insufficient evidence. The remaining suspect, Nicholas \"Nicky\" Conrad Jacobs, 16 years old at the time of the riot, was charged with Blakelock's murder that month and was remanded in custody. He pleaded not guilty in November 2013.\n\nJacobs was living with his mother in Manor Road, Tottenham, at the time of the riot. He had spent time in a residential school in Reading in 1983–1984 as a result of a care order, and in 1985 he joined a Tottenham gang, the Park Lane Crew. He was named shortly after the riot by two of those arrested, and was arrested himself five days later\n\"in connection with the murder of PC Blakelock\", according to police records. The police had a photograph of him from the night carrying a petrol bomb, a basket of rocks, and a crate. He told them he had first arrived at the estate after midnight, two hours after Blakelock was killed; he said he had been at home during the attack. He was charged with affray, and in November 1986 Judge Neil Denison sentenced him to eight years, ruling that Jacobs had \"played a leading part\" in the riots and had thrown a petrol bomb. The longest sentence handed out for affray during the riot, according to Rose, it was reduced on appeal to six years.\n\nThe trial of Nicholas Jacobs opened before Mr Justice Nicol at the Old Bailey on 3 March 2014. Jacobs did not take the stand. He was found not guilty on 9 April 2014 by a 10–2 verdict, reached after the jury was out for one day.\n\nThe court heard that, in 1988 while Jacobs was serving his sentence for affray, a guard had found rap lyrics in his cell, in Jacobs' handwriting:\n\nCourtenay Griffiths QC, defending, responded that Bob Marley had not been prosecuted for \"I Shot the Sheriff\". The court was also told that, when Jacobs was arrested for attempted burglary in May 2000, by then aged 30, he reportedly told an officer: \"F*** off, I was one of them who killed PC Blakelock,\" which the defence called a \"flippant street remark\".\n\nThe main prosecution witnesses were three pseudonymous men who testified from behind a curtain with their voices distorted. Two of them, \"John Brown\" and \"Rhodes Levin\", had offered testimony to Nove during his 1992–1994 investigation; the third, \"Q\", was Brown's cousin. Richard Whittam QC, for the prosecution, told the court that all three had admitted kicking or hitting Blakelock and would normally face murder charges themselves, but the CPS had decided during Commander Perry Nove's inquiry to offer the \"kickers\" immunity in exchange for testimony against the \"stabbers\".\n\n\"John Brown\", aged 20 at the time of the attack, had served a sentence for affray for his role in the rioting. He was a member of the Park Lane Crew, a Tottenham gang that he said Jacobs had also joined. Approached by police again during Nove's second inquiry, Brown said in a statement in August 1993 that Jacobs was a \"nutter\" who was \"out to get blood\" that night. He said Jacobs had \"broadcast it everywhere that he was going to try and do a copper\", and that the Park Lane Crew had stored weapons and petrol bombs in preparation for such an attack. Brown admitted to having kicked Blakelock up to ten times, and said that he had seen Jacobs attack Blakelock with a machete or similar. The police gave Brown £5,000 in 1993 and an additional £590 in January 2011 toward his rent; they also paid for credits for his mobile phone so that they could reach him, and paid to have his car put through an MOT test (an annual roadworthiness test). The court heard that Brown had also been also \"made aware\" by police that \"The Sun\" had offered a £100,000 reward. He told the police in 1993 that he had difficulty identifying black people: \"I can't tell the difference between them. To me a black man is a black man.\"\n\nThe second witness, \"Rhodes Levin\", had also served a sentence for affray for his role in the riots, and had a history of using cocaine, crack cocaine and heroin. He admitted to having kicked Blakelock several times. He said that Jacobs had been carrying a lock-knife with a brown handle and six-inch (15 cm) blade that night (Blakelock was found with a six-inch blade with a wooden handle embedded in his neck up to the hilt). Afterwards, Levin said, Jacobs told him he had \"got a couple of jukes [stabs] in\". Levin testified that Blakelock's helmet had been passed around as a trophy; he said he could not recall the names of those who had handled it. Levin was interviewed by police in November 1985, when he said Winston Silcott had led the attack with a machete; he told the court in 2014 that that had been a mistake. The court heard that, during Nove's 1992–1994 investigation, police had offered Levin immunity from prosecution, given him £5,000, and paid for a flight from Spain when he missed his flight home from a holiday. They approached him again in January 2008 for his testimony and helped him with expenses and a deposit for accommodation.\n\n\"Q\", the third witness, first told police in 2009 that he had seen the attack, after they posted a note through his letterbox asking for witnesses. The court heard that Q had a long history of using drugs and alcohol. He said he had known Nicholas Jacobs all his life and had seen him attack Blakelock with a \"mini sword\" or similar, making \"repeated stabbing motions\" toward Blakelock. The defence lawyer told the court that Q was a fantasist. Q was unable to describe accurately where the attack had taken place.\n\nBlakelock was buried in East Finchley Cemetery. For his funeral service at St. James's Church, Muswell Hill—conducted by the Rt Rev Brian Masters, Bishop of Edmonton; the Rev Michael Bunker; and Archdeacon Robert Coogan—the church's seating capacity had to be extended from 600 to 800, and a further 300 police officers in a nearby British Legion hall joined in by closed-circuit television. A public-address system was installed to allow 500 people standing outside the church to hear the service. A memorial for Blakelock, commissioned by the Police Memorial Trust, stands by the roundabout at Muswell Hill, north London, where he was a homebeat officer. A plaque on the estate's Broadwater Farm Garden, opened in July 1988, is \"dedicated to those who died and suffered on 5th and 6th October 1985\"; the deaths on 5 and 6 October were Cynthia Jarrett and Keith Blakelock.\n\nPC Dick Coombes, badly injured during the attack, went back to work part-time in July 1986 but was forced to retire in 1991, partly because of the epilepsy that developed as a result of brain damage. His eyesight deteriorated and he was left barely able to stand. In January 1988 every member of Serial 502 was awarded a High Commendation by Sir Peter Imbert, then Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police. In August that year, all the constables, including Blakelock, were awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal for \"outstanding bravery and devotion to duty\"; Blakelock's wife attended the ceremony on his behalf. Sgt David Pengelly, who single-handedly fought to hold the crowd away from Blakelock and Richard Coombes after they fell, received the George Medal, awarded for acts of great bravery, for having acted \"with total disregard for his own safety\". Trevor Stratford of the London Fire Brigade was also awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal; he and another firefighter, Graham Holloway, received commendations from the fire brigade for outstanding bravery. Two other firefighters, James Ryan and David Kwai, received the Chief Fire Officer's letter of congratulations.\n\nA lack of clarity about who was in charge of the police operation on the night of Blakelock's death led to a failure to deploy reinforcements and equipment in a timely manner. To ensure that such a situation was never repeated, a new \"gold–silver–bronze command structure\" (strategic–tactical–operational) was created in 1985 that replaced ranks with roles. It is used by all British emergency services at every type of major incident.\nComparisons were made to the 1985 Broadwater Farm Riot when rioting broke out again in Tottenham in August 2011. After police shot and killed a man, Mark Duggan, believing that he was armed, around 120 people marched from Broadwater Farm to the local police station, echoing the protests that preceded the rioting on 6 October 1985. Violence and looting spread throughout England for several days, leading to five deaths, extensive property damage and over 3,000 arrests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339861", "title": "Emperor Ping of Han", "text": "Emperor Ping of Han\n\nEmperor Ping (9 BC – 3 February 6 CE) was an emperor of the Chinese Han Dynasty from 1 BC to AD 5. After Emperor Ai died childless, the throne was passed to his cousin Emperor Ping—then a child of eight years old. Wang Mang was appointed regent by the Grand Empress Dowager Wang. Dissatisfied with his father's dictatorial regency, in AD 3, Wang's son Wang Yu (王宇) conspired with Emperor Ping's maternal uncles of the Wei clan against Wang, but after they were discovered, Wang had not only Wang Yu and the Weis (except Consort Wei) put to death, but also used this opportunity to accuse many actual or potential political enemies as being part of the conspiracy and to execute or exile them. From here onwards, the Han Dynasty existed only in name. Furthermore, Wang Mang also designated his daughter as the empress consort to Emperor Ping to codify his legitimacy to power. Emperor Ping was allegedly poisoned by Wang Mang after reigning less than six years, because Wang was concerned that he would avenge his uncles, and his successor, the infant Emperor Ruzi, would be chosen by none other than Wang Mang himself.\n\nThen-Liu Jizi was born in 9 BC. His father Liu Xing (劉興) was the youngest son of Emperor Yuan and the younger brother of Emperor Cheng. His mother was one of Prince Xing's consorts, Consort Wei (衛姬). Prince Jizi had three sisters (whose names are not recorded in history) but no brother. He was born with a heart ailment, which, when affliciting him, causes him to have circulation problems, manifesting itself outwardly as having his lips and appendages turn blue. He was raised by his paternal grandmother Consort Feng Yuan, a concubine of Emperor Yuan, who then had the title princess dowager in Prince Xing's principality.\n\nAround the time of Prince Jizi's birth, Prince Xing was considered a potential imperial heir, because Emperor Cheng had no heirs, but eventually Emperor Cheng chose his nephew (Prince Jizi's cousin) Liu Xin (劉欣), because Emperor Cheng considered Prince Xin to be more capable than Prince Xing, and also wanted to adopt Prince Xin and make him his own son. When Emperor Cheng died in 7 BC, Prince Xin took the throne as Emperor Ai.\n\nAlso in 7 BC, when Prince Jizi was just 2, Prince Xing died, and Prince Jizi inherited his principality as the Prince of Zhongshan (roughly modern Baoding, Hebei). He continued to be periodically afflicted with his heart disorder. As a result, his grandmother Princess Dowager Feng hired many physicians and often prayed to the gods. In 6 BC, Emperor Ai, hearing about his cousin's illness, sent imperial physicians along with his attendant Zhang You (張由) to go to Zhongshan to treat Prince Jizi. This, however, would have dire consequences of Princess Dowager Feng.\n\nThe imperial attendant Zhang was himself afflicted with a psychiatric condition (probably bipolar disorder), and when he got to Zhongshan, he suddenly, in a rage, left there and returned to the capital Chang'an. Once he did and was ordered to explain his conduct, he made up a false reason—that he had discovered that Princess Dowager Feng was using witchcraft to curse Emperor Ai and his grandmother, Empress Dowager Fu. Empress Dowager Fu and Princess Dowager Feng were romantic rivals when they were both consorts to Emperor Yuan, and Empress Dowager Fu decided to use this opportunity to strike at Princess Dowager Feng. She sent a eunuch, Shi Li (史立), to serve as investigator, and Shi tortured a good number of Princess Dowager Feng's relations (including her sister Feng Xi (馮習) and her sister-in-law Junzhi (君之)), some to death, but still could not build a solid case against Princess Dowager Feng. Shi Li decided to show Princess Dowager Feng who was actually behind the investigation, by referring to an incident in which then-Consort Feng defended Emperor Yuan against a bear which had broken loose. Princess Dowager Feng, realizing that Empress Dowager Fu was behind the investigation, went back to her palace and committed suicide. In total, 17 members of the Feng clan died as a result of the investigations. Prince Jizi, then still a toddler, was spared. (Princess Dowager Feng's reputation would be restored, and her accusers severely punished, in 1 BC, after the deaths of Emperor Ai and Empress Dowager Fu.)\n\nIn 1 BC, Emperor Ai died without an heir. His stepgrandmother, Grand Empress Dowager Wang, quickly seized power back from Emperor Ai's male favorite (and probable lover) Dong Xian, and recalled her nephew Wang Mang as regent. Wang Mang quickly carried out a wave of retaliation against Dong Xian and Emperor Ai's Fu and Ding (relatives of his mother Consort Ding) relations, purging them from government, and at the same time purging many actual or potential political enemies, while at the same time pretending to Grand Empress Dowager Wang to be faithful to Han. Prince Jizi, as the only surviving male descendant of Emperor Yuan (both Emperors Cheng and Ai having died without issue), was considered the logical successor, and he was welcomed to Chang'an to succeed his cousin.\n\nAlmost immediately after Emperor Ping took the throne, Wang Mang began to carry out a regime to return governmental structure to ancient days of the Zhou Dynasty and the even more ancient Xia Dynasty and Shang Dynasty. He also aggressively pursued a program to build up a personality cult about himself, wanting to have himself recognized as a holy regent on the scale of the Duke of Zhou. In 1 CE, for example, after having his political allies convincing Grand Empress Dowager Wang of his great faithfulness and great achievements, he was created the Duke of Anhan (安漢公, literally \"Duke who made Han secure\"), even though there had not been a single duke created in Han history up to that point. Further, to appease both the disaffected nobility and the people, Wang Mang instituted a program to restore marquess titles to descendants of past imperial princes and marquesses, started a pension system for retired officials, and reduced taxes. He also bribed vassal states into making offerings of rare animals, viewed as signs of heavenly blessing, to Han. With all people praising Wang Mang, he managed to persuade Grand Empress Dowager Wang, then already 69 years old, to have him make the important state decisions, rather than have her do so, and Wang Mang immediately became the most powerful figure in the empire.\n\nTo prevent Emperor Ping's Wei relations from becoming powerful potential rivals at court, Wang Mang limited the titles of Emperor Ping's uncles to acting marquesses (關內侯) and his mother Consort Wei to \"Princess Xiao of Zhongshan\" (\"Prince Xiao\" being Prince Xing's posthumous name), and only created Emperor Ping's three sisters ladies (君). He also ordered that the Weis, including Consort Wei, and Emperor Ping's sisters not to be allowed to go to Chang'an to see him, but were to remain in Zhongshan.\n\nIn 2 CE, to reduce the burden of the people in naming taboo, Emperor Ping's name was changed to Kan (衎), since Ji and Zi were commonly used characters.\n\nAlso in 2 CE, Wang Mang decided to have his daughter married to Emperor Ping to further affirm his position. Initially, he started a selection process of eligible noble young ladies (after declaring, in accordance with ancient customs, that Emperor Ping will have one wife and 11 concubines). However, then, in an act of false modesty intended to create the opposite result, he petitioned Grand Empress Dowager Wang that his daughter not be considered—and then started a petition drive by the people to have his daughter be selected as empress. The petitioners stormed the outside of the palace, and Grand Empress Dowager Wang, overwhelmed by the display of affection for Wang Mang, ordered that Wang Mang's daughter be made empress.\n\nWang Mang's son Wang Yu (王宇) disagreed with his father's dictatorial regime and program to build up his personality cult, afraid that in the future the Wangs would receive a backlash when Emperor Ping was grown. He therefore formed friendships with Emperor Ping's Wei uncles, and told Consort Wei to offer assurances to Wang Mang that she would not act as Emperor Ai's mother and grandmother did, trying to become an empress dowager. Wang Mang still refused to let her visit the capital.\n\nIn 3 CE, Wang Yu formed a conspiracy with his teacher Wu Zhang (吳章), his brother-in-law Lü Kuan (呂寬), and the Weis, to try to see what they can do to break Wang Mang's dictatorial hold. They decided that they would create what appear to be supernatural incidents to make Wang Mang concerned, and then have Wu try to persuade Wang Mang to transfer power to the Weis. Wang Yu told Lü to toss a bottle of blood onto Wang Mang's mansion door to create that effect—but Lü was discovered by Wang Mang's guards. Wang Mang then arrested Wang Yu, who then committed suicide, and his wife (Lü Kuan's sister) Lü Yan (呂焉) was executed. Wang Mang then executed the entire Wei clan, except for Consort Wei. Wu was cut in half and then drawn and quartered. (It is not known what happened to Lü, but it would appear that there would be no way for him to escape death.)\n\nWang Mang then took this opportunity to further wipe out potential enemies—by torturing Wang Yu and Lü's coconspirators and then arrest anyone that they mentioned, and then have them either executed or forced them to commit suicide. The victims of this purge included Emperor Yuan's sister Princess Jingwu (敬武長公主), Wang Mang's own uncle Wang Li (王立), and his own cousin Wang Ren (王仁). He told Grand Empress Dowager Wang, however, falsely, that they had died of illnesses. Many other officials who were not willing to follow Wang Mang were also victimized in this purge. After this, Wang Mang's hold on power became absolute.\n\nIn 4 CE, Emperor Ping officially married Wang Mang's daughter and created her empress.\n\nIn 5 CE, Wang Mang revived an ancient ceremony intended for those who have made great contributions to the state, and had himself given the nine bestowments. (The \"nine bestowments\" would, after Wang Mang, thereafter become a customary step for usurpers to receive before they usurp the throne.)\n\nCirca 5 AD, Emperor Ping, having grown older, appeared to have grown out of his earlier heart condition, and it became fairly plain that he resented Wang Mang for slaughtering his uncles and not allowing his mother to visit him in Chang'an. Wang Mang therefore resolved to murder the emperor. In winter 5 AD, Wang Mang submitted pepper wine (considered in those days to be capable of chasing away evil spirits) to the 13-year-old emperor, but had the wine spiked with poison. As the emperor was suffering the effects of the poison, Wang Mang wrote a secret petition to the gods, in which he offered to substitute his life for Emperor Ping's, and then have the petition locked away. (Historians generally believed that Wang Mang had two motives in doing this—one was, in case Emperor Ping recovered from the poisoning, to use this to try to absolve himself of involvement in the poisoning, and the second was to leave for posterity evidence of his faithfulness.) After a few days of suffering, Emperor Ping died. The throne would lie vacant for the next few years, as although Emperor Ping's cousin-once-removed, the infant Emperor Ruzi, would be selected as emperor, he would never actually take the throne. Wang Mang would serve as acting emperor and usurp the Han throne officially in 8 AD.\n\nEmperor Ping's burial mound is found in Zhouling district of Xianyang. The grave sits in a field with only a rudimentary sign and low fence to distinguish it. The latter has not proven effective in discouraging climbers, as there are worn paths leading up and down the hill.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5253609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5253609", "title": "Enantiostasis", "text": "Enantiostasis\n\nEnantiostasis is the ability of an open system, especially a living organism, to maintain and conserve its metabolic and physiological functions in response to variations in an unstable environment. Estuarine organisms typically undergo enantiostasis in order to survive with constantly changing salt concentrations. The Australian NSW Board of Studies defines the term in its Biology syllabus as \"the maintenance of metabolic and physiological functions in response to variations in the environment\".\n\nEnantiostasis is not a form of classical homeostasis, meaning \"standing at a similar level,\" which focuses on maintenance of internal body conditions such as pH, oxygen levels, and ion concentrations. Rather than maintaining homeostatic (stable ideal) conditions, enantiostasis involves maintaining only functionality in spite of external fluctuations. However, it can be considered a type of homeostasis in a broader context because functions are kept relatively consistent. Organic compounds such as Taurine have been shown to still properly function within environments that have been disrupted from an ideal state.\n\nThe term \"enantiostasis\" was proposed by Mangum and Towle. It is derived from the Greek ('; opposite, opposing, over against) and ('; to stand, posture).\n\n\nExamples of organisms which undergo enantiostasis in an estuarine environment include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104104", "title": "Escape Clause", "text": "Escape Clause\n\n\"Escape Clause\" is episode six of the American television anthology series \"The Twilight Zone\". It originally aired on November 6, 1959 on CBS.\n\nMean-spirited, abusive hypochondriac Walter Bedeker sells his soul to the devil (appearing as a rotund rogue who calls himself \"Mr. Cadwallader\" here) in exchange for immortality, adding enough conditions to keep him out of Cadwallader's clutches forever. Cadwallader readily agrees to his demands, only stipulating an escape clause which allows Bedeker to choose the time of his death if he tires of being immortal.\n\nBedeker uses his newfound invulnerability to collect insurance money and cheap thrills by hurling himself into life-threatening accidents. Soon growing bored with this, he comes to the realization that his constant fear of fatal illness was the one thing which gave him any interest in life. He tells his wife that he is going to attempt to regain the thrill by jumping off the roof of their apartment building. \n\nWhile trying to stop him, his wife accidentally falls off the edge herself. Bedeker tells the authorities he murdered his wife, hoping to experience the electric chair. \n\nHowever, due to his lawyer's defense strategy, he is instead sentenced to life in prison without parole. Cadwallader visits Bedeker in his holding cell to remind him of the escape clause. Realizing he will face eternity in prison if he does not use it, Bedeker nods and suffers a fatal heart attack. The guard discovers his lifeless body and sighs, \"Poor devil...\"\n\n\n\"Escape Clause\" was one of the three episodes-in-production mentioned by Rod Serling in his 1959 promotional film pitching the series to potential sponsors, the others being \"The Lonely\" and \"Mr. Denton on Doomsday\" (referred to as \"Death, Destry, and Mr. Dingle\").\n\n\"Here was a little gem. Good work, Rod Serling. This little piece about a hypochondriac who gets tangled up with an obese, clerical devil ranked with the best that has ever been accomplished in half-hour filmed television.\" —\"Excerpt from the Daily Variety review.\"\n\nDisney's Twilight Zone Tower of Terror has a reference to this episode located in the basement of the attraction. The elevators have a certificate of inspection plaque, signed by \"Cadwallader\", bearing the inspection number \"10259\". These numbers represent October 2, 1959, the date \"The Twilight Zone\" first aired.\n\n"}
{"id": "57159859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57159859", "title": "Fracton (subdimensional particle)", "text": "Fracton (subdimensional particle)\n\nA fracton is an emergent quasiparticle excitation that is immobile when in isolation.\n\nThe immobility of fractons in symmetric tensor gauge theory can be understood as a generalization of electric charge conservation resulting from a modified Gauss's law.\nFor example, in the U(1) scalar charge model, the fracton charge density (formula_1) is related to a symmetric electric field tensor (formula_2, a theoretical generalization of the usual electric vector field) via formula_3, where the repeated spatial indices formula_4 are implicitly summed over.\nBoth the fracton charge (formula_5) and dipole moment (formula_6) can be shown to be conserved:\nWhen integrating by parts, we have assumed that there is no electric field at spatial infinity.\nSince the total fracton charge and dipole moment is zero under this assumption, this implies that the charge and dipole moment is conserved.\nBecause moving an isolated charge changes the total dipole moment, this implies that isolated charges are immobile in this theory.\nHowever, two oppositely charged fractons, which forms a fracton dipole, can move freely since this does not change the dipole moment.\n\nFractons were originally studied as an analytically tractable realization of quantum glassiness where the immobility of isolated fractons results in a slow relaxation rate\nThis immobility has also been shown to be capable of producing a partially self-correcting quantum memory, which could be useful for making an analog of a hard drive for a quantum computer\nFractons have also been shown to appear in quantum linearized gravity models\nHowever, aside from the duality to crystal defects, and although it has been shown to be possible in principal\nother experimental realizations of fractons have not yet been realized.\n\nIt has been conjectured that many type-I models are examples of foliated fracton phases; however, it remains unclear whether non-Abelian fracton models can be understood within the foliated framework.\n"}
{"id": "30956656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30956656", "title": "George Jerram", "text": "George Jerram\n\nGeorge Henry William Jerram (15 August 1904 – 20 May 1948) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Geelong and North Melbourne in the Victorian Football League (VFL).\n\nJerrem, a utility, was used as a half forward flanker, back pocket and in the ruck during his career. An interstate player in just his second season, Jerram represented the VFL in the 1927 Melbourne Carnival. He also finished equal sixth in the Brownlow Medal that year, after a good season with Geelong. In 1930 he switched to North Melbourne and didn't miss a game in his first two seasons. He made his last appearance with North Melbourne in 1935 and the following year went to Williamstown, who he captain-coached in 1938.\n\nIn 144 VFL games, Jerram was never reported by the umpires and off the field worked as a policeman. After leaving the police force, Jerram became a boiler attendant.\n\nHe died in 1948, from a fractured skull as well as other injuries sustained when he fell on a South Melbourne footpath. Accounts of how he fell varied, with the inquest having an open finding, unable to determine whether it was accidental or as a result of an alleged brawl.\n"}
{"id": "55139035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55139035", "title": "Giuseppe Bonini", "text": "Giuseppe Bonini\n\nGiuseppe Bonini (19 August 1897 - date of death unknown) was an Italian middle-distance runner who competed at the 1920 Summer Olympics and 1924 Summer Olympics,\n"}
{"id": "11233475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11233475", "title": "Intertheoretic reduction", "text": "Intertheoretic reduction\n\nIn philosophy of science, intertheoretic reduction occurs when a reducing theory makes predictions that perfectly or almost perfectly match the predictions of a reduced theory, while the reducing theory explains or predicts a wider range of phenomena under more general conditions. Special relativity, for example, can be reduced to Newtonian mechanics for velocities far less than \"c\".\n\nAccording to Alexander Rosenberg philosophers mostly these days believe that reduction between sciences is possible \"in principle\" but concepts we currently have do not allow reductions even in many cases in which natural sciences are involved, for instance from biology to chemistry.\n\nOften, the extent to which one theory can be said to be reduced to another theory is complicated by the existence of emergent phenomena. Furthermore, there is the issue of by what criteria one judges one theory as more fundamental than another. Often, this notion is ambiguous. For instance, a quintessential example of intertheoretic reduction is often considered to be the reduction of phenomenological thermodynamics to statistical mechanics. However, it has been argued that there are some phenomena (e.g. phase transitions and critical phenomena) that cannot be reductively explicated in terms of the \"more fundamental\" theory of statistical mechanics.\n\nEspecially psychology is seen often as a \"scientific dead-end\" due to its intentional concepts (though psychology does not necessarily have to use intentional concepts). Logical analysis has suggested that intentional concepts are not reducible to non-intentional concepts used by neurophysiology in which is the discipline \"underlying\" the psychology.\n"}
{"id": "45392417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45392417", "title": "James Bryant (Australian cricketer)", "text": "James Bryant (Australian cricketer)\n\nJames Mark \"Jerry\" Bryant (1826 – 10 December 1881) was an Australian cricketer. He played first-class cricket matches for Surrey and Victoria. He was born in England in 1826, being christened on 24 October of that year at Caterham, Surrey.\n\nBryant was an instrumental figure at the outset of Australian rules football, providing footballs, equipment and amenities for many of the earliest recorded matches in the parklands of Melbourne. His hotel, the Parade Hotel, near the Melbourne Cricket Ground, is where the first laws of the game were codified by members of the Melbourne Football Club in May 1859.\n\n"}
{"id": "54878152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54878152", "title": "Joshua Ribera", "text": "Joshua Ribera\n\nJoshua Ribera (10 August 1995 – 21 September 2013), performing as Depzman, was an English grime artist and rapper, considered by some \"a leading artist on the UK grime scene\". He died aged only 18 after being stabbed at a Birmingham nightclub.\n\nRibera was born in Solihull on 10 August 1995, to Alison Cope. He became serious about music after being sentenced to a young offender institution, gaining a name for himself in the grime genre. In 2012 he took part in the \"Lord of the Mics\" battle-rap competition in London. His only album, \"2 Real\", was released in July 2013, and reached number 1 on the iTunes hip hop chart.\n\nOn the 20 September 2013 Ribera attended a memorial tribute at a Selly Oak nightclub held for a friend, Shamz who had died exactly 1 year earlier after being stabbed in the leg. Ribera himself was stabbed at the event. He died in Solihull hospital on the 21st September 2013 after being stabbed in the heart.In March 2014 his killer, Armani Mitchell, was sentenced to life imprisonment, to serve a minimum of 18 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40468594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40468594", "title": "Juliana (dog)", "text": "Juliana (dog)\n\nJuliana (died 1946) was a medal-winning Great Dane. She was awarded two Blue Cross medals, the first for extinguishing an incendiary bomb and the second for alerting her masters to a fire that had started in their shop. In September 2013 the second of these medals, along with a portrait of Juliana, sold at auction for £1,100. The discovery and sale of these items uncovered the story of Juliana's heroic acts.\n\nIn April 1941, two years into World War II, incendiary bombs were being dropped across Britain during The Blitz. One such device is believed to have fallen through the roof of the house in which Juliana and her owner lived. The dog is reported to have stood over the bomb and urinated on it, extinguishing the fire and preventing it from spreading. She was awarded her first Blue Cross medal for her actions.\n\nJuliana was celebrated as a hero for a second time when, in November 1944, she again helped to save the lives of her owners. After a fire had taken hold in their shoe shop, she alerted her master's family to the impending danger. For this she was awarded a second medal.\n\nThe second medal, along with a portrait of Juliana, was discovered during a house clearance in Bristol. The items were sold together at a Gloucestershire auction in September 2013, with the auctioneer describing Juliana as \"a Great Dane with a great bladder\". Initially expected to achieve £60, the sale reached £1,100 with the winning bid coming from an anonymous buyer.\n\nJuliana died from poisoning in 1946 after a substance was posted through her owner's letterbox.\n"}
{"id": "1350609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1350609", "title": "Late Devonian extinction", "text": "Late Devonian extinction\n\nThe Late Devonian extinction was one of five major extinction events in the history of life on Earth. A major extinction, the Kellwasser event, occurred at the boundary that marks the beginning of the last phase of the Devonian period, the Famennian faunal stage (the Frasnian–Famennian boundary), about 376–360 million years ago. Overall, 19% of all families and 50% of all genera became extinct. A second, distinct mass extinction, the Hangenberg event, closed the Devonian period.\n\nAlthough it is clear that there was a massive loss of biodiversity in the Late Devonian, the timespan of this event is uncertain, with estimates ranging from 500,000 to 25 million years, extending from the mid-Givetian to the end-Famennian. Nor is it clear whether there were two sharp mass extinctions or a series of smaller extinctions, though the latest research suggests multiple causes and a series of distinct extinction pulses during an interval of some three million years. Some consider the extinction to be as many as seven distinct events, spread over about 25 million years, with notable extinctions at the ends of the Givetian, Frasnian, and Famennian stages.\n\nBy the Late Devonian, the land had been colonized by plants and insects. In the oceans were massive reefs built by corals and stromatoporoids. Euramerica and Gondwana were beginning to converge into what would become Pangaea. The extinction seems to have only affected marine life. Hard-hit groups include brachiopods, trilobites, and reef-building organisms; the reef-building organisms almost completely disappeared. The causes of these extinctions are unclear. Leading hypotheses include changes in sea level and ocean anoxia, possibly triggered by global cooling or oceanic volcanism. The impact of a comet or another extraterrestrial body has also been suggested, such as the Siljan Ring event in Sweden. Some statistical analysis suggests that the decrease in diversity was caused more by a decrease in speciation than by an increase in extinctions. This might have been caused by invasions of cosmopolitan species, rather than by any single event. Surprisingly, jawed vertebrates seem to have been unaffected by the loss of reefs or other aspects of the Kellwasser event, while agnathans were in decline long before the end of the Frasnian.\n\nDuring the Late Devonian, the continents were arranged differently from today, with a supercontinent, Gondwana, covering much of the Southern Hemisphere. The continent of Siberia occupied the Northern Hemisphere, while an equatorial continent, Laurussia (formed by the collision of Baltica and Laurentia), was drifting towards Gondwana, closing the Iapetus ocean. The Caledonian mountains were also growing across what is now the Scottish Highlands and Scandinavia, while the Appalachians rose over America.\n\nThe biota was also very different. Plants, which had been on land in forms similar to mosses, liverworts, and lichens since the Ordovician, had just developed roots, seeds, and water transport systems that allowed them to survive away from places that were constantly wet—and consequently built huge forests on the highlands. Several different clades had developed a shrubby or tree-like habit by the Late Givetian, including the cladoxylalean ferns, lepidosigillarioid lycopsids, and aneurophyte and archaeopterid progymnosperms. Fish were also undergoing a huge radiation, and the first tetrapods, such as \"Tiktaalik\", were beginning to evolve leg-like structures.\n\nExtinction rates appear to have been higher than the background rate, for an extended interval covering the last 20–25 million years of the Devonian. During this time, about eight to ten distinct events can be seen, of which two stand out as particularly severe. The Kellwasser event was preceded by a longer period of prolonged biodiversity loss. The fossil record of the first 15 million years of the Carboniferous period which followed is largely void of terrestrial animal fossils, likely related to losses during the end-Devonian Hangenberg event. This period is known as Romer's gap.\n\nThe Kellwasser event, named for its \"locus typicus\", the Kellwassertal in Lower Saxony, Germany, is the term given to the extinction pulse that occurred near the Frasnian–Famennian boundary. Most references to the \"Late Devonian extinction\" are in fact referring to the Kellwasser, which was the first event to be detected based on marine invertebrate record. There may in fact have been two closely spaced events here, as shown by the presence of two distinct anoxic shale layers.\n\nThe Hangenberg event is found on or just below the Devonian–Carboniferous boundary and marks the last spike in the period of extinction. It is marked by an anoxic black shale layer and an overlying sandstone deposit. Unlike the Kellwasser event, the Hangenberg event affected both marine and terrestrial habitats.\n\nThe extinction events were accompanied by widespread oceanic anoxia; that is, a lack of oxygen, prohibiting decay and allowing the preservation of organic matter. This, combined with the ability of porous reef rocks to hold oil, has led to Devonian rocks being an important source of oil, especially in the USA. \n\nThe Kellwasser event and most other Later Devonian pulses primarily affected the marine community, and had a greater effect on shallow warm-water organisms than on cool-water organisms. The most important group to be affected by the Kellwasser event were the reef-builders of the great Devonian reef-systems, including the stromatoporoids, and the rugose and tabulate corals. Reefs of the later Devonian were dominated by sponges and calcifying bacteria, producing structures such as oncolites and stromatolites. The collapse of the reef system was so stark that bigger reef-building by new families of carbonate-secreting organisms, the modern scleractinian or \"stony\" corals, did not recover until the Mesozoic era.\n\nFurther taxa to be starkly affected include the brachiopods, trilobites, ammonites, conodonts, and acritarchs. Both graptolites and cystoids disappeared during this event. The surviving taxa show morphological trends through the event. Trilobites evolved smaller eyes in the run-up to the Kellwasser event, with eye size increasing again afterwards. This suggests vision was less important around the event, perhaps due to increasing water depth or turbidity. The brims of trilobites (i.e. the rims of their heads) also expanded across this period. The brims are thought to have served a respiratory purpose, and the increasing anoxia of waters led to an increase in their brim area in response. The shape of conodonts' feeding apparatus varied with the oxygen isotope ratio, and thus with the sea water temperature; this may relate to them occupying different trophic levels as nutrient input changed. As with most extinction events, specialist taxa occupying small niches were harder hit than generalists.\n\nThe Hangenberg event affected both marine and freshwater communities. This mass extinction affected ammonites and trilobites, as well as jawed vertebrates, including tetrapod ancestors. The Hangenberg is linked to the extinction of 44% of high-level vertebrate clades, including all placoderms and most sarcopterygians, and the complete turnover of the vertebrate biota. 97 per cent of vertebrate species disappeared, with only smaller forms surviving. After the event only sharks less than a meter and most fishes and tetrapods less than 10 centimeters remained, and it would take 40 million years before they started to increase in size again. This led to the establishment of the modern vertebrate fauna in the Carboniferous, consisting mostly of actinopterygians, chondrichthyans, and tetrapods. Romer's gap, a 15 million-year hiatus in the early Carboniferous tetrapod record, has been linked to this event. Also, the poor Famennian record for marine invertebrates suggests that some of the losses attributed to the Kellwasser event likely actually occurred during the Hangenberg extinction.\n\nThe late Devonian crash in biodiversity was more drastic than the familiar extinction event that closed the Cretaceous. A recent survey (McGhee 1996) estimates that 22% of all the 'families' of marine animals (largely invertebrates) were eliminated. The family is a great unit, and to lose so many signifies a deep loss of ecosystem diversity. On a smaller scale, 57% of genera and at least 75% of species did not survive into the Carboniferous. These latter estimates need to be treated with a degree of caution, as the estimates of species loss depend on surveys of Devonian marine taxa that are perhaps not well enough known to assess their true rate of losses, so it is difficult to estimate the effects of differential preservation and sampling biases during the Devonian.\n\nSince the Kellwasser-related extinctions occurred over such a long time, it is difficult to assign a single cause, and indeed to separate cause from effect. The sedimentary record shows that the late Devonian was a time of environmental change, which directly affected organisms and caused extinction. What caused these changes is somewhat more open to debate.\n\nFrom the end of the Middle Devonian, into the Late Devonian, several environmental changes can be detected from the sedimentary record. Evidence exists of widespread anoxia in oceanic bottom waters; the rate of carbon burial shot up, and benthic organisms were devastated, especially in the tropics, and especially reef communities. Good evidence has been found for high-frequency sea-level changes around the Frasnian–Famennian Kellwasser event, with one sea level rise associated with the onset of anoxic deposits. The Hangenberg event has been associated with sea-level rise followed swiftly by glaciation-related sea-level fall.\n\nPossible triggers are as follows:\n\nBolide impacts can be dramatic triggers of mass extinctions. An asteroid impact was proposed as the prime cause of this faunal turnover, but no secure evidence of a specific extraterrestrial impact has been identified in this case. Impact craters, such as the Kellwasser-aged Alamo and the Hangenberg-aged Woodleigh, cannot generally be dated with sufficient precision to link them to the event; others dated precisely are not contemporaneous with the extinction. Although some minor features of meteoric impact have been observed in places (iridium anomalies and microspherules), these were probably caused by other factors.\n\nDuring the Devonian, land plants underwent a hugely significant phase of evolution. Their maximum height went from 30 cm at the start of the Devonian, to 30 m at the end of the period. This increase in height was made possible by the evolution of advanced vascular systems, which permitted the growth of complex branching and rooting systems. In conjunction with this, the development of seeds permitted reproduction and dispersal in areas which were not waterlogged, allowing plants to colonise previously inhospitable inland and upland areas. The two factors combined to greatly magnify the role of plants on the global scale. In particular, \"Archaeopteris\" forests expanded rapidly during the closing stages of the Devonian.\n\nThese tall trees required deep rooting systems to acquire water and nutrients, and provide anchorage. These systems broke up the upper layers of bedrock and stabilised a deep layer of soil, which would have been of the order of metres thick. In contrast, early Devonian plants bore only rhizoids and rhizomes that could penetrate no more than a few centimetres. The mobilisation of a large portion of soil had a huge effect: soil promotes weathering, the chemical breakdown of rocks, releasing ions which are nutrients for plants and algae. The relatively sudden input of nutrients into river water may have caused eutrophication and subsequent anoxia. For example, during an algal bloom, organic material formed at the surface can sink at such a rate that decomposing organisms use up all available oxygen by decaying them, creating anoxic conditions and suffocating bottom-dwelling fish. The fossil reefs of the Frasnian were dominated by stromatolites and (to a lesser degree) corals—organisms which only thrive in low-nutrient conditions. Therefore, the postulated influx of high levels of nutrients may have caused an extinction, just as phosphate run-off from Australian farmers is causing immeasurable damage to the Great Barrier Reef today. Anoxic conditions correlate better with biotic crises than phases of cooling, suggesting anoxia may have played the dominant role in extinction.\n\nThe \"greening\" of the continents occurred during the Devonian. The covering of the planet's continents with massive photosynthesizing land plants in the first forests may have reduced CO levels in the atmosphere. Since is a greenhouse gas, reduced levels might have helped produce a chillier climate. Evidence such as glacial deposits in northern Brazil (near the Devonian South Pole) suggests widespread glaciation at the end of the Devonian, as a broad continental mass covered the polar region. A cause of the extinctions may have been an episode of global cooling, following the mild climate of the Devonian period. The Hangenberg event has also been linked to glaciation in the tropics equivalent to that of the Pleistocene ice age.\n\nThe weathering of silicate rocks also draws down CO from the atmosphere. This acted together with the burial of organic matter to decrease atmospheric CO concentrations from about 15 to three times present levels. Carbon in the form of plant matter would be produced on prodigious scales, and given the right conditions, could be stored and buried, eventually producing vast coal measures (e.g. in China) which locked the carbon out of the atmosphere and into the lithosphere. This reduction in atmospheric would have caused global cooling and resulted in at least one period of late Devonian glaciation (and subsequent sea level fall), probably fluctuating in intensity alongside the 40ka Milankovic cycle. The continued drawdown of organic carbon eventually pulled the Earth out of its Greenhouse Earth state into the Icehouse that continued throughout the Carboniferous and Permian.\n\nMagmatism was suggested as a cause of the Late Devonian extinction in 2002.\nThe end of the Devonian Period was a time of extremely widespread trap magmatism and rifting in the Russian and Siberian platforms, which were situated above the hot mantle plumes and suggested as a cause of the Frasnian / Famennian and end-Devonian extinctions. The Viluy and Pripyat-Dniepr-Donets large igneous provinces were suggested to correlate with the Frasnian / Famennian extinction and the Kola and Timan-Pechora magmatism was suggested to correspond to the end Devonian-Carboniferous extinction.\n\nMost recently, scientists have confirmed a correlation between Viluy traps (in the Vilyuysk region) on the Siberian Craton and the Kellwasser extinction by Ar/Ar dating.\n\nThe Viluy Large igneous province covers most of the present day north-eastern margin of the Siberian Platform. The triple-junction rift system was formed during the Devonian Period; the Viluy rift is the western remaining branch of the system and two other branches form the modern margin of the Siberian Platform. Volcanic rocks are covered with post Late Devonian–Early Carboniferous sediments.\nVolcanic rocks, dyke belts, and sills that cover more than 320 × 10 km, and a gigantic amount of magmatic material (more than 1000 × 10 km) formed in the Viluy branch.\n\nAges show that the two volcanic phase hypotheses are well supported and the weighted mean ages of each volcanic phase are 376.7 ± 3.4 and 364.4 ± 3.4 Ma or 373.4 ± 2.1 and 363.2 ± 2.0 Ma, which the first volcanic phase is in agreement with the age of 372.2 ± 3.2 Ma proposed for the Kellwasser event. However, the second volcanic phase is slightly older than Hangenberg event which place at 358.9 ± 1.2 Ma. Viluy magmatism may have injected enough and into the atmosphere to have generated a destabilised greenhouse and ecosystem, causing rapid global cooling, sea-level falls and marine anoxia occur during Kellwasser black shale deposition.\n\nOther mechanisms put forward to explain the extinctions include tectonic-driven climate change, sea-level change, and oceanic overturning. These have all been discounted because they are unable to explain the duration, selectivity, and periodicity of the extinctions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27902881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27902881", "title": "MV Fairwind", "text": "MV Fairwind\n\nMV \"Fairwind\" (MSL 251) was an Australian Motor Stores Lighter wrecked off the New South Wales coast in 1950. MSL 251 and her sister ship, MSL 252 (later ), were built by Tulloch's Pty Ltd for the Australian Army. Completed in September 1946, the vessel was loaned to the Department of External Affairs and used for fishery surveys by the Papua and New Guinea Administration. The Department renamed the vessel MV \"Fairwind\".\n\nIn 1950, while on passage from Port Moresby to Sydney, \"Fairwind\" disappeared off the mid-north coast of New South Wales during a cyclone. She was last sighted near Smoky Cape. The ship's last communication was a radio report on 23 June, where she indicated that she was seeking shelter behind North Solitary Island short of fuel, but that she would attempt to reach Coffs Harbour. Despite an extensive land and air search, the crew of 17, including 12 Papuans, were not found. It is official that all of the \"Fairwind\"'s crew lost their lives in the sinking.\n\nThe fate of MV \"Fairwind\" was not positively established until August 2009, when her wreck was found in deep water off South West Rocks by a team of amateur divers. The wreck sits upright at a depth of . The wreck itself is mostly intact, with the forward and aft king posts projecting from the seabed.\n"}
{"id": "9411684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9411684", "title": "Maria Cristina of Savoy", "text": "Maria Cristina of Savoy\n\nBlessed Maria Cristina of Savoy (Maria Cristina Carlotta Giuseppa Gaetana Efisia; 14 November 1812 – 21 January 1836) was the first Queen consort of Ferdinand II of the Two Sicilies. She died as a result of childbirth.\n\nMaria Cristina was the youngest daughter of King Victor Emmanuel I of Sardinia and Archduchess Maria Teresa of Austria-Este.\n\nHer maternal grandparents were Archduke Ferdinand of Austria-Este and Maria Beatrice Ricciarda d'Este. Ferdinand was the fourteenth child and third son born to Francis I, Holy Roman Emperor, and Maria Theresa of Austria. Maria Beatrice was the eldest daughter of Ercole III d'Este and Maria Teresa Cybo-Malaspina, Duchess of Massa and Princess of Carrara.\n\nOn 21 November 1832, Maria Cristina married Ferdinand II of the Two Sicilies. The bride was twenty years old and the groom twenty-two.\n\nMaria Cristina was described as beautiful but also timid and shy: modest and reserved, she was never comfortable at the royal court. Her relationship to Ferdinand was not happy, and he had little patience for her nervous modesty.\n\nShe died at the age of 23, after having given birth 5 days before to her only child, Francis II of the Two Sicilies.\n\nOn 10 July 1872 she was declared to be a Servant of God, on 6 May 1937 a Venerable Servant of God, and on 3 May 2013 Pope Francis authorised a decree recognising a miracle due to her intercession, a further stage on her process to beatification. Her beatification took place on 25 January 2014 at the Basilica of Santa Chiara (Naples), where she is buried, making her Blessed Maria Cristina of Savoy.\n\n\"Posthumously:\"\n"}
{"id": "46847271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46847271", "title": "Me Before You", "text": "Me Before You\n\nMe Before You is a romance novel written by Jojo Moyes. The book was first published on 5 January 2012 in the United Kingdom. A sequel titled \"After You\" was released 29 September 2015 through Pamela Dorman Books.\nA second sequel, \"Still Me\", was published in January 2018.\n\nTwenty-six-year-old Louisa Clark lives with her working-class family. Unambitious and with few qualifications, she feels constantly outshone by her younger sister, Treena, an outgoing single mother. Louisa, who helps support her family, loses her job at a local café when the café closes. She goes to the Job Centre and, after several failed attempts, is offered a unique employment opportunity: help care for Will Traynor, a successful, wealthy, and once-active young man who developed quadriplegia in a pedestrian-motorcycle accident two years earlier. Will's mother, Camilla, hires Louisa despite her lack of experience, believing Louisa can brighten his spirit. Louisa meets Nathan, who cares for Will's medical needs, and Will's father, Steven, a friendly upper-class businessman whose marriage to Camilla is strained.\n\nLouisa and Will's relationship starts out rocky due to his bitterness and resentment over being disabled. Things worsen after Will's ex-girlfriend, Alicia, and best friend Rupert reveal that they are getting married. Under Louisa's care, Will gradually becomes more communicative and open-minded as they share experiences together. Louisa notices Will's scarred wrists and later overhears his mother and sister discussing how he attempted suicide shortly after Camilla refused his request to end his life through Dignitas, a Swiss-based assisted suicide organisation. Horrified by his attempt, Camilla promised to honour her son's wish, but only if he agreed to live six more months. Camilla intends to prove that, in time, he will believe his life's worth living.\n\nLouisa conceals knowing about Will and Camilla's agreement. However, she tells Treena, and together they devise ways that will help convince Will to abandon his death wish. Over the next few weeks, Will loosens up and lets Louisa shave his beard and cut his shaggy hair. Louisa begins taking Will on outings and the two grow closer.\n\nThrough their frequent talks, Louisa learns that Will has travelled extensively; his favourite place is a café in Paris. Noticing how limited her life is and that she has few ambitions, Will tries to motivate Louisa to change.\n\nLouisa continues seeing her longtime boyfriend of 6 years, Patrick, though they eventually break up due to her relationship with Will. Meanwhile, Louisa's father loses his job, causing more financial difficulties. Mr. Traynor offers Mr. Clark a position. Louisa realises that Will is trying to help her secure her freedom from her family. The two attend Alicia and Rupert's wedding where they dance and flirt. Will tells Louisa that she is the only reason he wakes in the morning.\n\nLouisa convinces Will to go on a holiday with her, but before they can leave, Will contracts near-fatal pneumonia. Louisa cancels the plans for a whirlwind trip. Instead, she takes Will to the island of Mauritius. The night before returning home, Louisa tells Will that she loves him. Will says he wants to confide something, but she admits that she already knows about his plans with Dignitas. Will says their time together has been special, but he cannot bear to live in a wheelchair. He will be following through with his plans. Angry and hurt, Louisa storms off and does not speak to him for the remainder of the trip. When they return home, Will's parents are pleasantly surprised by his good physical condition. Louisa, however, resigns as his caretaker, and they understand that Will intends to end his life.\n\nOn the night of Will's flight to Switzerland, Louisa visits him one last time. They agree that the past six months have been the best in their lives. He dies shortly after in the clinic, and it is revealed that he left Louisa a considerable inheritance, meant to continue her education and to fully experience life. The novel ends with Louisa at a café in Paris, reading Will's last words to her in a letter, that tell her to 'live well'.\n\n\nThe book was placed on the Richard and Judy Book Club.\n\nDisability advocates have criticised the book and film for suggesting that life may not be worth living for some with severe disabilities.\n\nIn 2014 MGM announced it would make a film adaptation of \"Me Before You\", to be directed by Thea Sharrock and released via Warner Bros. The film was initially set to release in August 2015 but was pushed back to 3 June 2016.\n\nEmilia Clarke and Sam Claflin portray the main characters, and filming began in the spring of 2015. The film has grossed over $200 million worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "2507552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2507552", "title": "Microchimerism", "text": "Microchimerism\n\nMicrochimerism is the presence of a small number of cells that originate from another individual and are therefore genetically distinct from the cells of the host individual. This phenomenon may be related to certain types of autoimmune diseases; however, the mechanisms responsible for this relationship are unclear.\n\nIn humans (and perhaps in all placentals), the most common form is fetomaternal microchimerism (also known as \"fetal cell microchimerism\" or \"fetal chimerism\") whereby cells from a fetus pass through the placenta and establish cell lineages within the mother. Fetal cells have been documented to persist and multiply in the mother for several decades. The exact phenotype of these cells is unknown, although several different cell types have been identified, such as various immune lineages, mesenchymal stem cells, and placental-derived cells. A 2012 study at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, has detected cells with the Y chromosome in multiple areas of the brains of deceased women.\n\nFetomaternal microchimerism occurs during pregnancy and shortly after giving birth for most women. However, not all women who have had children contain fetal cells. Studies suggest that fetomaternal microchimerism could be influenced by killer-cell immunoglobin-like (KIR) ligands. Lymphocytes also influence the development of persisting fetomaternal microchimerism since natural killer cells compose about 70% of lymphocytes in the first trimester of pregnancy. KIR patterns on maternal natural killer cells of the mother and KIR ligands on the fetal cells could have an effect on fetomaternal microchimerism. In one study, mothers with KIR2DS1 exhibited higher levels of fetomaternal microchimerism compared to mothers who were negative for this activating KIR.\n\nThe potential health consequences of these cells are unknown. One hypothesis is that these fetal cells might trigger a graft-versus-host reaction leading to autoimmune disease. This offers a potential explanation for why many autoimmune diseases are more prevalent in middle-aged women. Another hypothesis is that fetal cells home to injured or diseased maternal tissue where they act as stem cells and participate in repair. It is also possible that the fetal cells are merely innocent bystanders and have no effect on maternal health.\n\nAfter giving birth, about 50–75% of women carry fetal immune cell lines. Maternal immune cells are also found in the offspring yielding in maternal→fetal microchimerism, though this phenomenon is about half as frequent as the former.\n\nMicrochimerism had also been shown to exist after blood transfusions to a severely immunocompromised population of patients who suffered trauma.\n\nOther possible sources of microchimerism include gestation, an individual's older sibling, twin sibling, or vanished twin, with the cells being received in utero. Fetal-maternal microchimerism is especially prevalent after abortion or miscarriage. It is hypothesized that unprotected intercourse with ejaculation may be another source of microchimerism.\n\nMicrochimerism occurs in most pairs of twins in cattle. In cattle (and other bovines), the placentae of fraternal twins usually fuse and the twins share blood circulation, resulting in exchange of cell lines. If the twins are a male-female pair, the male hormones from the bull calf have the effect of partially masculinising the heifer (female), creating a \"martin heifer\" or \"freemartin\". Freemartins appear female, but are infertile and so cannot be used for breeding or dairy production. Microchimerism provides a method of diagnosing the condition, because male genetic material can be detected in a blood sample.\n\nMicrochimerism has been implicated in autoimmune diseases. Independent studies repeatedly suggested that microchimeric cells of fetal origin may be involved in the pathogenesis of systemic sclerosis. Moreover, microchimeric cells of maternal origin may be involved in the pathogenesis of a group of autoimmune diseases found in children, i.e. juvenile idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (one example would be juvenile dermatomyositis). Microchimerism has now been further implicated in other autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus. Contrarily, an alternative hypothesis on the role of microchimeric cells in lesions is that they may be facilitating tissue repair of the damaged organ.\n\nMoreover, fetal immune cells have also been frequently found in breast cancer stroma as compared to samples taken from healthy women. It is not clear, however, whether fetal cell lines promote the development of tumors or, contrarily, protect women from developing breast carcinoma.\n\nThe presence of fetal cells in mothers can be associated with benefits when it comes to certain autoimmune diseases. In particular, male fetal cells are related to helping mothers with systemic lupus erythematosus. When kidney biopsies were taken from patients with lupus nephritis, DNA was extracted and run with PCR. The male fetal DNA was quantified and the presence of specific Y chromosome sequences were found. Women with lupus nephritis containing male fetal cells in their kidney biopsies exhibited better renal system functioning. Levels of serum creatinine, which is related to kidney failure, were low in mothers with high levels of male fetal cells. In contrast, women without male fetal cells who had lupus nephritis showed a more serious form of glomerulonephritis and higher levels of serum creatinine.\n\nThe specific role that fetal cells play in microchimerism related to certain autoimmune diseases is not fully understood. However, one hypothesis states that these cells supply antigens, causing inflammation and triggering the release of different foreign antigens. This would trigger autoimmune disease instead of serving as a therapeutic. A different hypothesis states that fetal microchimeric cells are involved in repairing tissues. When tissues get inflamed, fetal microchimeric cells go to the damaged site and aid in repair and regeneration of the tissue.\n\nFetal maternal microchimerism may be related to autoimmune thyroid diseases. There have been reports of fetal cells in the lining of the blood and thyroid glands of patients with autoimmune thyroid disease. These cells could become activated after delivery of the baby after immune suppression in the mother is lost, suggesting a role of fetal cells in the pathogenesis of such diseases. Two types of thyroid disease, Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis (HT) and Graves’ Disease (GD) show similarities to graft vs host disease which occurs after hematopoietic stem cell transplants. Fetal cells colonize maternal tissues like the thyroid gland and are able to survive many years postpartum. These fetal microchimeric cells in the thyroid show up in the blood of women affected by thyroid diseases.\n\nFetomaternal microchimerism has been shown in experimental investigations of whether fetal cells can cross the blood brain barrier in mice. The properties of these cells allow them to cross the blood brain barrier and target injured brain tissue. This mechanism is possible because umbilical cord blood cells express some proteins similar to neurons. When these umbilical cord blood cells are injected in rats with brain injury or stroke, they enter the brain and express certain nerve cell markers. Due to this process, fetal cells could enter the brain during pregnancy and become differentiated into neural cells. Fetal microchimerism can occur in the maternal mouse brain, responding to certain cues in the maternal body.\n\nFetal microchimerism could have an implication on maternal health. Isolating cells in cultures can alter the properties of the stem cells, but in pregnancy the effects of fetal stem cells can be investigated without in vitro cultures. Once characterized and isolated, fetal cells that are able to cross the blood brain barrier could impact certain procedures. For example, isolating stem cells can be accomplished through taking them from sources like the umbilical cord. These fetal stem cells can be used in intravenous infusion to repair the brain tissue. Hormonal changes in pregnancy alter neurogenesis, which could create favorable environments for fetal cells to respond to injury.\n\nThe true function on fetal cells in mothers is not fully known, however, there have been reports of positive and negative health effects. The sharing of genes between the fetus and mother may lead to benefits. Due to not all genes being shared, health complications may arise as a result of resource allocation. During pregnancy, fetal cells are able to manipulate the maternal system to draw resources from the placenta, while the maternal system tries to limit it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47456362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47456362", "title": "Midwife", "text": "Midwife\n\nA midwife is a health professional specializing in pregnancy, childbirth, postpartum, women's sexual and reproductive health (including annual gynecological exams, family planning, menopausal care and others), and newborn care. Their education and training in midwifery equips them to recognise the variations of normal progress of labor, and understand how to deal with deviations from normal. They may intervene in high risk situations such as breech births, twin births and births where the baby is in a posterior position, using non-invasive techniques. When a pregnant woman requires care beyond the midwife's scope of practice, they refer women to obstetricians or perinatologists, who are medical specialists in complications related to pregnancy and birth, including surgical and instrumental deliveries. In many parts of the world, these professions work in tandem to provide care to childbearing women. In others, only the midwife is available to provide care, and in yet other countries many women elect to utilize obstetricians primarily over midwives.\n\nMany developing countries are investing money and training for midwives as these services are needed all over the world. Some primary care services are currently lacking due to the shortage of money being funded for these resources.\n\nAccording to the definition of the International Confederation of Midwives, which has also been adopted by the World Health Organization and the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics:\n\nThe word derives from Old English \"mid\", \"with\" and \"wif\", \"woman\", and thus originally meant \"with-woman\", that is, the person who is \"with\" the \"mother\" (woman) at childbirth. The word is used to refer to both male and female midwives.\n\nThe midwife is recognised as a responsible and accountable professional who works in partnership with women to give the necessary support, care and advice during pregnancy, labour and the postpartum period, to conduct births on the midwife’s own responsibility and to provide care for the newborn and the infant. This care includes preventative measures, the promotion of normal birth, the detection of complications in mother and child, the accessing of medical\ncare or other appropriate assistance and the carrying out of emergency measures.\n\nThe midwife has an important task in health counselling and education, not only for the woman, but also within the family and the community. This work should involve antenatal education and preparation for parenthood and may extend to women’s health, sexual or reproductive health and child care.\n\nA midwife may practise in any setting including the home, community, hospitals, clinics or health units.\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThe undergraduate midwifery programs are three-year full-time university programs leading to a bachelor's degree in midwifery (Bachelor of Midwifery) with additional one-year full-time programs leading to an honours bachelor's degree in midwifery (Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours)). The postgraduate midwifery programs (for registered midwives) lead to master's degrees in midwifery (Master in Midwifery, Master in Midwifery (Research), MSc Midwifery). There are also postgraduate midwifery programs (for registered nurses who wish to become midwives) leading to a bachelor's degree or equivalent qualification in midwifery (Bachelor of Midwifery, Graduate Diploma in Midwifery).\n\nMidwives in Australia must be registered with the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency in order to practice midwifery and use the title 'midwife' or 'registered midwife'.\n\nPractice\n\nMidwives work in a number of settings including hospitals, birthing centres, community centres and women’s homes. They may be employed by health services or organisations, or self-employed as privately practising midwives. All midwives are expected to work within a defined scope of practice and conform to ongoing regulatory requirements that ensure they are safe and autonomous practitioners.\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nMidwifery was reintroduced as a regulated profession in most of Canada's ten provinces in the 1990s. Prior to this legalization, some midwives had practiced in a legal \"grey area\" in some provinces. In 1981, a midwife in BC was charged with practicing without a medical license.\n\nAfter several decades of intensive political lobbying by midwives and consumers, fully integrated, regulated and publicly funded midwifery is now part of the health system in the provinces of British Columbia (regulated since 1995), Alberta (regulated since 2000, fully funded since 2009) Saskatchewan (regulated since 1999), Manitoba (regulated since 1997), Ontario (regulated since 1991), Quebec (regulated since 1999), and Nova Scotia (regulated since 2006), and in the Northwest Territories (regulated since 2003) and Nunavut(regulated since 2008). In 2010, Midwifery legislation was proclaimed in New Brunswick and Newfoundland and Labrador. Only Prince Edward Island and Yukon have no legislation in place for the practice of midwifery.\n\nThe undergraduate midwifery programs are four-year full-time university programs leading to bachelor's degrees in midwifery (B.H.Sc. in Midwifery, Bachelor of Midwifery). \n\nIn British Columbia, the program is offered at the University of British Columbia. Mount Royal University in Calgary, Alberta offers a Bachelor of Midwifery program. In Ontario, the Midwifery Education Program (MEP) is offered by a consortium of McMaster University, Ryerson University and Laurentian University. In Manitoba the program is offered by University College of the North. In Quebec, the program is offered at the Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières. In northern Quebec and Nunavut, Inuit women are being educated to be midwives in their own communities. \n\nThere are also \"bridging programs\" for internationally educated midwives at Ryerson University in Ontario and at the University of British Columbia. A federally funded pilot project called the Multi-jurisdictional Midwifery Bridging Program has been offered in Western Canada in the past, but funding was discontinued when they expanded their midwifery program. A new program was reinstated through the University of British Columbia in 2016 called the Internationally Educated Midwives Bridging Program IEMBP.\n\nMidwives in Canada must be registered, after a process of assessment by the provincial regulatory bodies, in order to practice midwifery and use the title 'midwife', 'registered midwife' or, the French-language equivalent, 'sage femme'.\n\nFrom the original 'alternative' style of midwifery in the 1960s and 1970s, midwifery practice is offered in a variety of ways within regulated provinces: midwives offer continuity of care within small group practices, choice of birthplace, and a focus on the woman as the primary decision-maker in her maternity care. When women or their newborns experience complications, midwives will work in consultation with an appropriate specialist. Registered midwives have access to appropriate diagnostics like blood tests and ultrasounds and can prescribe some medications. Founding principles of the Canadian model of midwifery include informed choice, choice of birthplace, continuity of care from a small group of midwives and respect for the woman as the primary decision maker. Midwives typically have hospital privileges and support women's right to choose where she will have her baby.\n\nThe legal recognition of midwifery has brought midwives into the mainstream of health care with universal funding for services, hospital privileges, rights to prescribe medications commonly needed during pregnancy, birth and postpartum, and rights to order blood work and ultrasounds for their own clients and full consultation access to physicians. To protect the tenets of midwifery and support midwives to provide woman-centered care, the regulatory bodies and professional associations have legislation and standards in place to provide protection, particularly for choice of birth place, informed choice and continuity of care. All regulated midwives have malpractice insurance. Any unregulated person who provides care with 'restricted acts' in regulated provinces or territories is practicing midwifery without a license and is subject to investigation and prosecution.\n\nPrior to legislative changes, very few Canadian women had access to midwifery care, in part because it was not funded by the health care system. Legalizing midwifery has made midwifery services available to a wide and diverse population of women and in many communities the number of available midwives does not meet the growing demand for services. Midwifery services are free to women living in provinces and territories with regulated midwifery.\n\nThe national professional associations in Canada is the Canadian Association of Midwives (CAM).\n\nOn 16 March 1995, the BC government announced the approval of regulations governing midwifery and establishing the College of Midwives of BC. In 1996, the Health Professional Council released a draft of Bylaws for the College of Midwives of BC which received Cabinet approval on 13 April 1997. In 1998, midwives were officially registered with the College of Midwives of BC.\n\nIn BC, midwives are primary care providers for women in all stages of pregnancy, from prenatal to six weeks postpartum. Midwives also care for newborns. To see the approximate proportion of women whose primary birth attendant was a midwife in British Columbia see, \"What Mothers Say: The Canadian Maternity Experiences Survey. Public Health Agency of Canada. Ottawa, 2009, p. 115.\n\nMidwives in BC can deliver natural births in hospitals or homes. If a complication arises in a pregnancy, labour, birth or postpartum, a midwife will consult with a specialist such as an obstetrician or paediatrician.\nCore competencies and restricted activities are included in the BC Health Professions Act Midwives Regulation.\nAs of April 2009, the scope of practice for midwives allows them to prescribe certain prescription drugs, use acupuncture for pain relief, assist a surgeon in a caesarean section delivery and to perform a vacuum extraction delivery. These specialized practices require additional education and certification.\n\nAs of November 2015, the College of Midwives of British Columbia reported 247 General, 2 Temporary, 46 Non-practicing Registrant midwives. There were 2 midwives per 100,000 people in BC in 2006.\n\nA midwife must be registered with the College of Midwives of BC in order to practice. To continue licensure midwives must maintain regular recertification in neonatal resuscitation and management of maternal emergencies, maintain the minimum volume of clinical care (40 women), participate in peer case reviews and continuing education activities.\n\nThe University of British Columbia (UBC) has a four-year Bachelor of Midwifery program. The UBC midwifery program is poised to double in size thanks to an increase in government funding. Graduation of students will increase to 20 per year.\n\nIn terms of proffesional associations, BC has both the College of Midwives of BC and the Midwives Association of BC\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThe undergraduate midwifery programs are five-year full-time university programs (four years in midwifery schools after a first year of medical studies common with Medicine, Odontology and Pharmacy) leading to an accredited master's degree in midwifery (Diplôme d'Etat de Sage-Femme).\n\nMidwives in France must be registered with the Ordre des sages-femmes in order to practice midwifery and use the title 'sage-femme'.\n\nPractice\n\nMidwives (\"sage-femmes\" \"wise women\" or \"maïeuticien\"/\"maïeuticienne\") are independent practitioners, specialists in birth and women's medicine.\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThe undergraduate midwifery programs are four-year full-time university programs, with an internship in the final year, leading to an honours bachelor's degree in midwifery (BSc (Hons) Midwifery). The postgraduate midwifery programs (for registered midwives) lead to master's degrees in midwifery (MSc Midwifery, MSc Midwifery Practice). There are also postgraduate midwifery programs (for registered general nurses who wish to become midwives) leading to a qualification in midwifery (Higher Diploma in Midwifery).\n\nMidwives must be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Board of Ireland (NMBI) in order to practice midwifery and use the title 'midwife' or 'registered midwife'. \n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nMidwifery was first regulated in 1868. Today midwives in Japan are regulated under the Act on Public Health Nurse, Midwife and Nurse (No. 203) established in 1948. Japanese midwives must pass a national certification exam. On 1 March 2003 the Japanese name of midwife officially converted to unisex name. Still, only women can take the national exam to be midwives.\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nWhen a 16-year civil war ended in 1992, Mozambique's health care system was devastated and one in ten women were dying in childbirth. There were only 18 obstetricians for a population of 19 million. In 2004, Mozambique introduced a new health care initiative to train midwives in emergency obstetric care in an attempt to guarantee access to quality medical care during pregnancy and childbirth. The newly introduced midwives system now perform major surgeries including Cesareans and hysterectomies. \n\nAs the figures now stand, Mozambique is one of the few countries on track to achieve the MDG of reducing the maternal death rate by 75% by 2015.\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThe undergraduate midwifery programs are four-year full-time university programs leading to a bachelor's degree in midwifery (HBO-bachelor Verloskunde). There are four colleges for midwifery in the Netherlands: in Amsterdam, Groningen, Rotterdam and Maastricht. Midwives are called \"vroedvrouw\" (knowledge woman), \"vroedmeester\" (knowledge master, male), or \"verloskundige\" (deliverance experts) in Dutch.\n\nPractice\n\nMidwives are independent specialists in physiologic birth. In the Netherlands, home birth is still a common practice, although rates have been declining during the past decades. Between 2005-2008, 29% of babies were delivered at home. This figure fell to 23% delivered at home between 2007-2010 according to Midwifery in the Netherlands, a 2012 pamphlet by The Royal Dutch Organization for Midwives. In 2014 it has dropped further to 13.4%.perined.nl/jaarboek2104.pdf.\n\nMidwives are generally organized as private practices, some of those are hospital-based. In-hospital outpatient childbirth is available in most hospitals. In this case, a woman's own midwife delivers the baby at the delivery room of a hospital, without intervention of an obstetrician. In all settings, midwives will transfer care to an obstetrician in case of a complicated childbirth or need for emergency intervention.\n\nApart from childbirth and immediate postpartum care, midwives are the first line of care in pregnancy control and education of mothers-to-be. Typical information that is given to mothers includes information about food, alcohol, life style, travel, hobbies, sex, etc. Some midwifery practices give additional care in the form of preconceptional care and help with fertility problems.\n\nAll care by midwives is legal and it is totally reimbursed by all insurance companies. This includes prenatal care, childbirth (by midwives or obstetricians, at home or in the hospital), as well as postpartum/postnatal care for mother and baby at home.\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nMidwifery is a regulated profession with no connection to Nursing. Midwifery is a profession with a distinct body of knowledge and its own scope of practice, code of ethics and standards of practice. The midwifery profession has knowledge, skills and abilities to provide a primary complete maternity service to childbearing women on its own responsibility.\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThe undergraduate midwifery programmes are three-year full-time (three trimesters per year) tertiary programmes leading to a bachelor's degree in midwifery (Bachelor of Midwifery or Bachelor of Health Science (Midwifery)). \nThese programmes are offered by Otago Polytechnic in Dunedin, Ara Institute of Canterbury (formally CPIT) in Christchurch, Waikato Institute of Technology in Hamilton and Auckland University of Technology (AUT) in Auckland. Several schools have satellite programmes such as Otago with a programme in Southland, Wanaka, Wellington, Palmerston North, Wanganui, and Wairarapa - and AUT with student cohorts in various sites in the upper North Island. The postgraduate midwifery programmes (for registered midwives) lead to postgraduate degrees or equivalent qualifications in midwifery (Postgraduate Certificate in Midwifery, Postgraduate Diploma in Midwifery, Master of Midwifery, PhD Professional Doctorate).\n\nThe Midwifery First Year of Practice Programme (MFYP) is a compulsory national programme for all New Zealand registered midwifery graduates, irrespective of work setting. The New Zealand College of Midwives (the NZCOM) is contracted by the funder, Health Workforce New Zealand (HWNZ), to provide the programme nationally in accordance with the programme specification.\n\nMidwives in New Zealand must be registered with the Midwifery Council of New Zealand in order to practice midwifery and use the title 'midwife'.\n\nPractice\n\nWomen may choose a midwife, a General Practitioner or an Obstetrician to provide their maternity care. About 78 percent choose a midwife (8 percent GP, 8 percent Obstetrician, 6 percent unknown). Midwives provide maternity care from early pregnancy to 6 weeks postpartum. The midwifery scope of practise covers normal pregnancy and birth. The midwife will either consult or transfer care where there is a departure from a normal pregnancy. Antenatal care is normally provided in clinics, and postnatal care is initially provided in the woman’s home. Birth can be in the home, a primary birthing unit, or a hospital. Midwifery care is fully funded by the Government. (GP care may be fully funded. Private obstetric care will incur a fee in addition to the government funding.)\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nIncrease in midwifery education has led to advances in impoverished countries. In Somalia, 1 in 14 women die while giving birth. Senior reproductive and maternal health adviser at UNFPA, Achu Lordfred claims, “the severe shortage of skilled health personnel with obstetric and midwifery skills means the most have their babies delivered by traditional birth attendants. But, when complications arise, these women either die or develop debilitating conditions, such as obstetric fistula, or lose their babies.” UNFPA is striving to change these odds by opening seven midwifery schools and training 125 midwives so far.\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nTraining includes aspects of midwifery, general nursing, community nursing and psychiatry, and can be achieved as either a four-year degree or a four-year diploma.\n\nThe midwifery profession is regulated under the Nursing Act, Act No 3 of 2005. The South African Nursing Council (SANC) is the regulatory body of midwifery in South Africa. \n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThere are different levels of education for midwives: \n\nMidwives must be licensed by the Tanzania Nursing and Midwifery Council (TNMC) in order to practice as a 'registered midwife' or 'enrolled midwife'. TNMC ensure the quality midwifery education output, develop and reviews various guidelines and standards on midwifery professionals and monitor their implementation, monitor and evaluate midwifery education programs and approve such programs to meet the Council and international requirements. Also it establish standards of proficiencies for midwifery education.\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThe undergraduate midwifery programs are three-year full-time university programs leading to honours bachelor's degrees in midwifery: BSc (Hons) Midwifery, Bachelor of Midwifery (Hons). The postgraduate midwifery programs (for registered midwives) lead to master's degrees in midwifery (MSc Midwifery, MSc Advanced Practice Midwifery). There are also undergraduate and postgraduate midwifery programs (for graduates with a relevant degree who wish to become midwives) leading to degrees or equivalent qualifications in midwifery (BSc (Hons) Midwifery, Bachelor of Midwifery (Hons), Graduate Diploma in Midwifery, Postgraduate Diploma in Midwifery, MSc Midwifery).\nMidwifery training consists of classroom-based learning provided by select universities in conjunction with hospital- and community-based training placements at NHS Trusts.\n\nMidwifery students do not pay tuition fees and are eligible for additional financial support while training. Funding varies depending on which country within the UK the student is located in: students are eligible for NHS bursaries in addition to a grant of 1,000 pounds a year, and neither has to be repaid. Shortened-course students, who are already registered adult nurses, have different funding arrangements, are employed by the local NHS Trust via the Strategic Health Authority (SHA), and are paid salaries. This varies between universities and SHAs, with some students being paid their pre-training salaries, while others are employed as a Band 5 and still others are paid a proportion of a Band 5 salary.\n\nMidwives must be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Council in order to practice midwifery and use the title 'midwife' or 'registered midwife', and must also have a Supervisor of Midwives through their local supervising authority.\n\nPractice\n\nMidwives are practitioners in their own right in the United Kingdom. They take responsibility for the antenatal, intrapartum and postnatal care of women up until 28 days after the birth, or as required thereafter. Midwives are the lead health care professional attending the majority of births, whether at home, in a midwife-led unit or in a hospital (although most births in the UK occur in hospitals).\n\nIn December 2014 the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence updated its guidance regarding where women should give birth. The new guidance states that midwife-led units are safer than hospitals for women having straightforward (low risk) pregnancies. Its updated guidance also confirms that home birth is as safe as birth in a midwife-led unit or a traditional labour ward for the babies of low-risk pregnant women who have already had at least one child previously.\n\nMany midwives also work in the community. The role of community midwives includes making initial appointments with pregnant women, managing clinics, undertaking postnatal care in the home and attending home births. A community midwife typically has a pager, is responsible for a particular area and can be contacted by ambulance control when needed. Sometimes they are paged to help out in a hospital when there are insufficient midwives available.\n\nMost midwives work within the National Health Service, providing both hospital and community care, but a significant proportion work independently, providing total care for their clients within a community setting. However, recent government proposals to require insurance for all health professionals is threatening independent midwifery in England.\n\nMidwives are at all times responsible for the women they are caring for. They must know when to refer complications to medical staff, act as the women's advocate, and ensure that mothers retain choice and control over childbirth.\n\nMost practising midwives in the United Kingdom are female: men account for less than 0.5 per cent of midwives on the register of the NMC.\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nEducation, training and regulation\n\nThere are accredited midwifery programs which lead to different professional midwifery credentials:\n\n\nAccording to each US state, a midwife must be licensed and/or authorized to practice midwifery.\n\nPractice\n\nMidwives work with women and their families in many settings. They generally support and encourage natural childbirth in all practice settings. Laws regarding who can practice midwifery and in what circumstances vary from state to state. Many states have birthing centers where a midwife may work individually or as a group, which provides additional clinical opportunities for student midwives.\n\nCPMs provide on-going care throughout pregnancy and continuous, hands-on care during labor, birth and the immediate postpartum period. They practice as autonomous health professionals working in a network of relationships with other maternity care professionals who can provide consultation and collaboration when needed. Although qualified to practice in any setting, they have particular expertise in providing care in homes and free-standing birth centers, and own or work in over half of the birth centers in the U.S. today.\n\nCNMs and CMs work in a variety of settings including private practices, hospitals, birth centers, health clinics, and home birth services. They supervise not only pregnancy, delivery and postpartum period care for women and their newborns, but also provide gynecological care for all women and have autonomy and prescriptive authority in most states. They manage women's healthcare from puberty through post-menopause. With appropriate training, they can also first assist in cesarean (operative) deliveries and perform limited ultrasound examinations. It is possible for CNMs/CMs practice independently of physicians, establishing themselves as health care providers in the community of their choice.\n\nProfessional associations/colleges\n\nMen rarely practice midwifery for cultural and historical reasons. In ancient Greece, midwives were required by law to have given birth themselves, which prevented men from joining their ranks. In 17th century Europe, some barber surgeons, all of whom were male, specialized in births, especially births requiring the use of surgical instruments. This eventually developed into a professional split, with women serving as midwives and men becoming obstetricians. Men who work as midwives are called \"midwives\" (or \"male midwives\", if it is necessary to identify them further) or \"accoucheurs\"; the term \"midhusband\" (based on a misunderstanding of the etymology of \"midwife\") is occasionally encountered, mostly as a joke. In previous centuries, they were called \"man-midwives\" in English.\n\nWilliam Smellie is credited with innovations on the shape of forceps. This invention corresponds with the development towards obstetrics. He advised male midwives to wear dresses in order to reduce controversy over having a man present at birth.\n\nAs of the 21st century, most developed countries allow men to train as midwives. However, it remains very rare. In the United Kingdom, even after the passing of the Sex Discrimination Act 1975, the Royal College of Midwives barred men from the profession until 1983. As of March 2016, there were between 113 and 137 registered male midwives, representing 0.6% of all practising midwives in the UK.\n\nIn the US, there remain a small, stable or minimally declining number of male midwives with full scope training (CNMs/CMs), comprising approximately 1% of the membership of the American College of Nurse-Midwives.\n\nIn some Southeast Asian cultures, some or even most of the traditional midwives are men.\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "24386230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24386230", "title": "Morrnah Simeona", "text": "Morrnah Simeona\n\nMorrnah Nalamaku Simeona (May 19, 1913 – February 11, 1992) was recognized as a \"kahuna lapaau\" (healer) in Hawaii and taught her updated version of hooponopono throughout the United States, Asia, and Europe.\n\nMorrnah was born May 19, 1913, in Honolulu, Hawaii, to Kimokeo and Lilia Simeona, both native Hawaiians. Her mother, Lilia, was one of the last recognized \"kahuna laau kahea\" or priest who heals with words. Morrnah was a practitioner of lomilomi massage and for 10 years owned and operated health spas at the Kahala Hilton and Royal Hawaiian hotels. Among her massage clients at the Hilton spa were Lyndon B. Johnson, Jackie Kennedy, and Arnold Palmer. In 1983, she was recognized as a \"kahuna lapaau\" (healer) and honored as a \"Living Treasure of Hawai'i\" by the Honpa Hongwanji Mission of Hawai'i.\n\nIn 1976 she began to modify the traditional Hawaiian forgiveness and reconciliation process of hooponopono to the realities of the modern day. Her version of hooponopono was influenced by her Christian (Protestant and Catholic) education and her philosophical studies about India, China, and Edgar Cayce. The combination of Hawaiian traditions, praying to the Divine Creator, and connecting problems with Reincarnation and Karma resulted in a unique new problem solving process, that was self-help rather than the traditional Hawaiian group process. She had no qualms about adapting traditional concepts to contemporary applications, though she was criticized by some Hawaiian purists. \"Her system uses hooponopono techniques to create a working partnership among the three parts of the mind or self, which she calls by Hawaiian names, as well as by the terms subconscious, conscious, and superconscious.\" \n\nShe presented trainings and lectures on hooponopono to the United Nations, in nearly a dozen states in the U.S., and in more than 14 countries, among them Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, France, Russia, and Japan. She presented to schools of higher learning, such as the University of Hawaii and Johns Hopkins University, to medical facilities, religious institutions and business organizations. In 1982 she organized the \"First World Symposium of Identity of Man\". A reporter noted: \"There was something very calming and soothing about Simeona's presence and her voice, a sense of serenity about her, as she talks about teaching people how to relieve stress and attain peace of mind.\"\n\nTo spread her hooponopono process, she founded Pacifica Seminars in the 1970s and in 1980 The Foundation of ‘I’, Inc. (Freedom of the Cosmos). In 1990, she started Pacifica Seminars in Germany. Simeona wrote three textbooks \"Self-Identity through Hooponopono, Basic 1\" (128 pg), \"Basic 2\" (to use after two years of practicing) and \"Basic 3\" (to use after five years). The recommended waiting times for Basic 2 and 3 was for developing deep respect for the \"Divine presence.\" In 1990, the English original of \"Basic 1\", 8th edition, was officially translated and printed in German and French.\n\nIn late fall 1990, her last journey for lectures and seminars took her through Europe to Jerusalem. On January 16, 1991, she came back to Germany, where she lived quietly at a friend's house in Kirchheim, near Munich, until her death on February 11, 1992.\n\nOn March 25, 1992, U. S. Senator Daniel Akaka (D - Hawaii), eulogized Simeona in the Congressional Record. He noted she had learned that the original plaster cast of the cast-iron Statue of Freedom, which stands on the top of the dome of the United States Capitol, was being kept in storage. She raised $25,000 to refurbish and restore it, and as a result it was moved and placed on display in the Russell Senate Office Building (now in the Capitol Visitor Center) where, Akaka said, it would serve as a remembrance of Simeona.\n\n"}
{"id": "3201624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3201624", "title": "Murder of Sharon Beshenivsky", "text": "Murder of Sharon Beshenivsky\n\nPC Sharon Beshenivsky (14 January 1967 – 18 November 2005) was a West Yorkshire Police constable shot dead by a criminal gang during a robbery in Bradford on 18 November 2005, becoming the seventh female police officer in Great Britain to be killed on duty. Another police officer, PC Teresa Millburn, was also shot in the incident, being seriously injured but surviving. Millburn had joined the force less than two years earlier; Beshenivsky had served only nine months in the force at the time of her death.\n\nClosed-circuit television cameras tracked a car rushing from the scene and used an automatic number plate recognition system to trace its owners. This led to six suspects being arrested; three were later convicted of murder, robbery and firearms offences; two of manslaughter, robbery and firearms offences; and one of robbery. A seventh suspect remains at large.\n\nBeshenivsky had been serving as a police officer for nine months. She had previously been a police community support officer (collar #268) with West Yorkshire Police. Having been a constable for just nine months, she was classed as a probationer under the supervision of an experienced colleague.\n\nOn the afternoon of 18 November 2005, Beshenivsky and Millburn responded to reports that an attack alarm had been activated at a travel agent on Morley Street in Bradford. Upon arrival the officers encountered three men who had robbed the agent of £5,405; two were armed with a gun, another with a knife. One of the gunmen fired at them immediately at point-blank range, fatally wounding Beshenivsky in the chest and also hitting Millburn in the chest, before all three men made a getaway in a convoy of cars.\n\nBeshenivsky was the seventh female officer to die in the line of duty in England and Wales, the second female officer to be fatally shot (the first was Yvonne Fletcher in London in 1984), and the first female officer to die in an 'ordinary' gun crime (Fletcher was shot during a protest at the Libyan embassy in London).\n\nShe had three children and two stepchildren, and died on her youngest daughter's fourth birthday. Beshenivsky's funeral took place on 6 January 2006 at Bradford Cathedral.\n\nOn 25 November 2005, police named Somali brothers Mustaf Jama, aged 25, and Yusaf Jama, aged 19, as well as 24-year-old Muzzaker Imtiaz Shah as prime suspects. Yusaf Jama was arrested in Birmingham the following day and was subsequently charged with murder and robbery. On 12 December 2005, Shah was arrested in Newport, South Wales; he was later also charged with Beshenivsky's murder. Mustaf Jama had fled to Somalia but was extradited two years later. The use of recently installed automatic number plate recognition technology in Bradford city centre played a vital role in identifying the suspects prior to their arrest.\n\nOn 18 December 2006, Yusuf Jama was found guilty of all charges against him, including the murder of Sharon Beshenivsky. He was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 35 years. This was expected to keep Yusuf Jama imprisoned until at least 2040 and the age of 60.\nMuzzaker Shah was also sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 35 years, which was also expected to keep him in prison until at least 2040 and the age of 60.\n\nFaisal Razzaq, a 25-year-old from London, was cleared of murder but found guilty of manslaughter. He was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 11 years before being considered for parole. This was expected to keep him imprisoned until at least 2017 and the age of 36. He had driven the lead car of the gang's convoy from Leeds to Bradford and acted as a lookout during the robbery.\n\nOn 2 March 2007, Hassan Razzaq, the 26-year-old brother of Faisal, was also convicted of manslaughter and was sentenced to 20 years in prison. He had also acted as a lookout. Raza Ul-Haq Aslam was a third lookout and was sentenced to eight years in prison for a single robbery offence.\n\nAll of the suspects except Aslam were also found guilty of robbery and a series of firearms offences.\n\nOn 1 November 2007, Mustaf Jama was extradited from Somalia after an undercover Home Office operation and taken into police custody at Bridewell police station in Leeds. He was charged the next day with the murder of Beshenivsky, appeared before Leeds magistrates, and was remanded into custody. On 22 July 2009 at Newcastle Crown Court, Mustaf Jama was found guilty of murder and was also told that he would serve at least 35 years in prison, which is expected to keep him in prison until 2044 and the age of 64. It later transpired that he had been released from prison (having been convicted of burglary and robbery offences) just six months before Beshenivsky's murder and that he had been considered for deportation to his native Somalia but Home Office officials ruled it was \"too dangerous\".\n\nYusuf Jama and Muzzaker Shah appealed for their sentences to be reduced. The High Court heard their appeals but agreed with the trial judge's recommended minimum term for both men and rejected the appeals. In November 2010, Mustaf Jama made an application for permission to appeal his sentence. The Court of Appeal rejected his application in March 2011.\n\nHewan Gordon was jailed for eighteen months in 2007 for helping Shah evade capture. In 2010 he won an appeal against a government bid to deport him back to Somalia. His appeal was understood to have been made on human rights grounds and drew heavy criticism from police, politicians and Beshenivsky's family.\n\nThe alleged mastermind of the robbery, Piran Ditta Khan, remains unapprehended. It has been reported that the 50-year-old fled to Pakistan. A reward of £20,000 has been offered for information leading to his arrest.\n\nIn 2014 police renewed their appeal for information that might lead to Khan's arrest. Detective Superintendent Simon Atkinson said: \"This investigation is not yet complete and will not be until everyone involved in any way in the murder of PC Beshenivsky is brought to justice. We have not, and will not leave any stone unturned in our search for justice. The £20,000 reward on offer remains and I would like to take this opportunity to appeal again to the people of Pakistan or to anyone who knows where this man is to get in contact.\"\n\nIn June 2007, Muzzaker Imtiaz Shah received an additional nine years to his sentence for firearms offences committed during a car chase in 2004.\n\nIn December 2007, Yusuf Jama was also convicted of conspiracy to rape and handed an additional twelve years to his sentence. The case related to the gang rape of a woman at a house party in Birmingham some days after Beshenivsky's murder.\n\nIn March 2008, both Shah and Yusuf Jama received a further four years imprisonment for wounding with intent after they stabbed another inmate at Frankland prison in Brasside, County Durham.\n\nFaisal Razzaq was handed an additional seven-and-a-half-year sentence in June 2007 for possessing prohibited firearms in 2004.\n\nOn 18 August 2006, the rugby league club Bradford Bulls made a presentation on the pitch at their home stadium during the half-time interval of a match with Castleford Tigers, in Beshenivsky's honour. Her widower Paul, along with the Chief Constable of West Yorkshire Police Colin Cramphorn, were guests as Bradford Bulls chairman Peter Hood unveiled a memorial bench in her honour, which was to be placed in the club's reception area. On 8 May 2009, a memorial to Beshenivsky was unveiled at the location of her death. At the unveiling, then-Prime Minister Gordon Brown paid tribute to the officer's \"dedication, professionalism and courage\". Michael Winner, chairman of the Police Memorial Trust, also praised Beshenivsky and police officers across the country, saying: \"Take them away and there's total anarchy and we are devoured by the forces of evil.\"\n\nIn November 2008, the far right British National Party was condemned for using the murder as an example of racially motivated crime in a piece of literature which was circulated to potential voters. Opponents of the party's policies were keen to point out that there was no obvious racial motive to the murder, and that the killers would obviously have killed anyone of any ethnic background who might have attempted to foil them.\n\n"}
{"id": "8704167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8704167", "title": "Outline of life extension", "text": "Outline of life extension\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to life extension:\n\nLife extension – study of slowing down or reversing the processes of aging to extend both the maximum and average lifespan. Also known as anti-aging medicine, experimental gerontology, and biomedical gerontology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTheories of aging\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1614268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1614268", "title": "Quality management", "text": "Quality management\n\nQuality management ensures that an organization, product or service is consistent. It has four main components: quality planning, quality assurance, quality control and quality improvement. Quality management is focused not only on product and service quality, but also on the means to achieve it. Quality management, therefore, uses quality assurance and control of processes as well as products to achieve more consistent quality.\n\nQuality management is a recent phenomenon but important for an organization. Civilizations that supported the arts and crafts allowed clients to choose goods meeting higher quality standards rather than normal goods. In societies where arts and crafts are the responsibility of master craftsmen or artists, these masters would lead their studios and train and supervise others. The importance of craftsmen diminished as mass production and repetitive work practices were instituted. The aim was to produce large numbers of the same goods. The first proponent in the US for this approach was Eli Whitney who proposed (interchangeable) parts manufacture for muskets, hence producing the identical components and creating a musket assembly line. The next step forward was promoted by several people including Frederick Winslow Taylor, a mechanical engineer who sought to improve industrial efficiency. He is sometimes called \"the father of scientific management.\" He was one of the intellectual leaders of the Efficiency Movement and part of his approach laid a further foundation for quality management, including aspects like standardization and adopting improved practices. Henry Ford was also important in bringing process and quality management practices into operation in his assembly lines. In Germany, Karl Benz, often called the inventor of the motor car, was pursuing similar assembly and production practices, although real mass production was properly initiated in Volkswagen after World War II. From this period onwards, North American companies focused predominantly upon production against lower cost with increased efficiency.\n\nWalter A. Shewhart made a major step in the evolution towards quality management by creating a method for quality control for production, using statistical methods, first proposed in 1924. This became the foundation for his ongoing work on statistical quality control. W. Edwards Deming later applied statistical process control methods in the United States during World War II, thereby successfully improving quality in the manufacture of munitions and other strategically important products.\n\nQuality leadership from a national perspective has changed over the past decades. After the second world war, Japan decided to make quality improvement a national imperative as part of rebuilding their economy, and sought the help of Shewhart, Deming and Juran, amongst others. W. Edwards Deming championed Shewhart's ideas in Japan from 1950 onwards. He is probably best known for his management philosophy establishing quality, productivity, and competitive position. He has formulated 14 points of attention for managers, which are a high level abstraction of many of his deep insights. They should be interpreted by learning and understanding the deeper insights. These 14 points include key concepts such as:\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, Japanese goods were synonymous with cheapness and low quality, but over time their quality initiatives began to be successful, with Japan achieving high levels of quality in products from the 1970s onward. For example, Japanese cars regularly top the J.D. Power customer satisfaction ratings. In the 1980s Deming was asked by Ford Motor Company to start a quality initiative after they realized that they were falling behind Japanese manufacturers. A number of highly successful quality initiatives have been invented by the Japanese (see for example on this pages: Genichi Taguchi, QFD, Toyota Production System). Many of the methods not only provide techniques but also have associated quality culture (i.e. people factors). These methods are now adopted by the same western countries that decades earlier derided Japanese methods.\n\nCustomers recognize that quality is an important attribute in products and services. Suppliers recognize that quality can be an important differentiator between their own offerings and those of competitors (quality differentiation is also called the quality gap). In the past two decades this quality gap has been greatly reduced between competitive products and services. This is partly due to the contracting (also called outsourcing) of manufacture to countries like China and India, as well internationalization of trade and competition. These countries, among many others, have raised their own standards of quality in order to meet international standards and customer demands. The ISO 9000 series of standards are probably the best known International standards for quality management.\n\nCustomer satisfaction is the backbone of Quality Management. Setting up a million dollar company without taking care of needs of customer will ultimately decrease its revenue. \n\nThere is a huge number of books available on quality management. Some themes have become more significant including quality culture, the importance of knowledge management, and the role of leadership in promoting and achieving high quality. Disciplines like systems thinking are bringing more holistic approaches to quality so that people, process and products are considered together rather than independent factors in quality management.\n\nThe influence of quality thinking has spread to non-traditional applications outside of walls of manufacturing, extending into service sectors and into areas such as sales, marketing and customer service.\n\nThe International Standard for Quality management (ISO 9001:2015) adopts a number of management principles, that can be used by top management to guide their organizations towards improved performance.\n\nThe primary focus of quality management is to meet customer requirements and to strive to exceed customer expectations.\n\nRationale\n\nSustained success is achieved when an organization attracts and retains the confidence of customers and other interested parties on whom it depends. Every aspect of customer interaction provides an opportunity to create more value for the customer. Understanding current and future needs of customers and other interested parties contributes to sustained success of an organization \n\nLeaders at all levels establish unity of purpose and direction and create conditions in which people are engaged in achieving the organization’s quality objectives.\n\nRationale\n\nCreation of unity of purpose and direction and engagement of people enable an organization to align its strategies, policies, processes and resources to achieve its objectives \n\nCompetent, empowered and engaged people at all levels throughout the organization are essential to enhance its capability to create and deliver value.\n\nRationale\n\nTo manage an organization effectively and efficiently, it is important to involve all people at all levels and to respect them as individuals. Recognition, empowerment and enhancement of competence facilitate the engagement of people in achieving the organization’s\nquality objectives.\n\nConsistent and predictable results are achieved more effectively and efficiently when activities are understood and managed as interrelated\nprocesses that function as a coherent system.\n\nRationale\n\nThe quality management system consists of interrelated processes. Understanding how results are produced by this system enables an organization to optimize the system and its performance.\n\nSuccessful organizations have an ongoing focus on improvement.\n\nRationale\n\nImprovement is essential for an organization to maintain current levels of performance, to react to changes in its internal and external conditions and to create new opportunities.\n\nDecisions based on the analysis and evaluation of data and information are more likely to produce desired results.\n\nRationale\n\nDecision making can be a complex process, and it always involves some uncertainty. It often involves multiple types and sources of inputs, as well as their interpretation, which can be subjective. It is important to understand cause-and-effect relationships and potential unintended consequences. Facts, evidence and data analysis lead to greater objectivity and confidence in decision making.\n\nFor sustained success, an organization manages its relationships with interested parties, such as suppliers, retailers.\n\nRationale\n\nInterested parties influence the performance of an organizations and industry. Sustained success is more likely to be achieved when the organization manages relationships with all of its interested parties to optimize their impact on its performance. Relationship management with its supplier and partner networks is of particular importance.\n\nThe social scientist Bettina Warzecha (2017) describes the central concepts of Quality Management (QM), such as e.g. process orientation, controllability, and zero defects as modern myths. She demonstrates that zero-error processes and the associated illusion of controllability involve the epistemological problem of self-referentiality. The emphasis on the processes in QM also ignores the artificiality and thus arbitrariness of the difference between structure and process. Above all, the complexity of management cannot be reduced to standardized (mathematical) procedures. According to her, the risks and negative side effects of QM are usually greater than the benefits (see also \"brand eins\", 2010).\n\nThere are many methods for quality improvement. These cover product improvement, process improvement and people based improvement. In the following list are methods of quality management and techniques that incorporate and drive quality improvement:\n\nProponents of each approach have sought to improve them as well as apply them for small, medium and large gains. Simple one is Process Approach, which forms the basis of Quality Management System standard, duly driven from the 'Eight principles of Quality management', process approach being one of them. Thareja writes about the mechanism and benefits: \"The process (proficiency) may be limited in words, but not in its applicability. While it fulfills the criteria of all-round gains: in terms of the competencies augmented by the participants; the organisation seeks newer directions to the business success, the individual brand image of both the people and the organisation, in turn, goes up. The competencies which were hitherto rated as being smaller, are better recognized and now acclaimed to be more potent and fruitful\". The more complex Quality improvement tools are tailored for enterprise types not originally targeted. For example, Six Sigma was designed for manufacturing but has spread to service enterprises. Each of these approaches and methods has met with success but also with failures.\n\nSome of the common differentiators between success and failure include commitment, knowledge and expertise to guide improvement, scope of change/improvement desired (Big Bang type changes tend to fail more often compared to smaller changes) and adaption to enterprise cultures. For example, quality circles do not work well in every enterprise (and are even discouraged by some managers), and relatively few TQM-participating enterprises have won the national quality awards.\n\nThere have been well publicized failures of BPR, as well as Six Sigma. Enterprises therefore need to consider carefully which quality improvement methods to adopt, and certainly should not adopt all those listed here.\n\nIt is important not to underestimate the people factors, such as culture, in selecting a quality improvement approach. Any improvement (change) takes time to implement, gain acceptance and stabilize as accepted practice. Improvement must allow pauses between implementing new changes so that the change is stabilized and assessed as a real improvement, before the next improvement is made (hence continual improvement, not continuous improvement).\n\nImprovements that change the culture take longer as they have to overcome greater resistance to change. It is easier and often more effective to work within the existing cultural boundaries and make small improvements (that is Kaizen) than to make major transformational changes. Use of Kaizen in Japan was a major reason for the creation of Japanese industrial and economic strength.\n\nOn the other hand, transformational change works best when an enterprise faces a crisis and needs to make major changes in order to survive. In Japan, the land of Kaizen, Carlos Ghosn led a transformational change at Nissan Motor Company which was in a financial and operational crisis. Well organized quality improvement programs take all these factors into account when selecting the quality improvement methods.\n\nThe International Organization for Standardization (ISO) created the Quality Management System (QMS) standards in 1987. They were the ISO 9000:1987 series of standards comprising ISO 9001:1987, ISO 9002:1987 and ISO 9003:1987; which were applicable in different types of industries, based on the type of activity or process: designing, production or service delivery.\n\nThe standards are reviewed every few years by the International Organization for Standardization. The version in 1994 was called the ISO 9000:1994 series; consisting of the ISO 9001:1994, 9002:1994 and 9003:1994 versions.\n\nThe last major revision was in the year 2000 and the series was called series. The ISO 9002 and 9003 standards were integrated into one single certifiable standard: ISO 9001:2000. After December 2003, organizations holding ISO 9002 or 9003 standards had to complete a transition to the new standard.\n\nISO released a minor revision, ISO 9001:2008 on 14 October 2008. It contains no new requirements. Many of the changes were to improve consistency in grammar, facilitating translation of the standard into other languages for use by over 950,000 certified organization in the 175 countries (as at Dec 2007) that use the standard.\n\nThe ISO 9004:2009 document gives guidelines for performance improvement over and above the basic standard (ISO 9001:2000). This standard provides a measurement framework for improved quality management, similar to and based upon the measurement framework for process assessment.\n\nThe Quality Management System standards created by ISO are meant to certify the processes and the system of an organization, not the product or service itself. ISO 9000 standards do not certify the quality of the product or service.\n\nIn 2005 the International Organization for Standardization released a standard, ISO 22000, meant for the food industry. This standard covers the values and principles of ISO 9000 and the HACCP standards. It gives one single integrated standard for the food industry and is expected to become more popular in the coming years in such industry.\n\nISO has also released standards for other industries. For example, Technical Standard TS 16949 defines requirements in addition to those in ISO 9001:2008 specifically for the automotive industry.\n\nISO has a number of standards that support quality management. One group describes processes (including ISO/IEC 12207 and ISO/IEC 15288) and another describes process assessment and improvement ISO 15504.\n\nThe Software Engineering Institute has its own process assessment and improvement methods, called CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) and IDEAL respectively.\n\nCapability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) is a process improvement training and appraisal program and service administered and marketed by Carnegie Mellon University and required by many DOD and U.S. Government contracts, especially in software development. Carnegie Mellon University claims CMMI can be used to guide process improvement across a project, division, or an entire organization. Under the CMMI methodology, processes are rated according to their maturity levels, which are defined as: Initial, Managed, Defined, Quantitatively Managed, Optimizing. Currently supported is CMMI Version 1.3. CMMI is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office by Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nThree constellations of CMMI are:\n\nCMMI Version 1.3 was released on November 1, 2010. This release is noteworthy because it updates all three CMMI models (CMMI for Development, CMMI for Services, and CMMI for Acquisition) to make them consistent and to improve their high maturity practices. The CMMI Product Team has reviewed more than 1,150 change requests for the models and 850 for the appraisal method.\n\nAs part of its mission to transition mature technology to the software community, the SEI has transferred CMMI-related products and activities to the CMMI Institute, a 100%-controlled subsidiary of Carnegie Innovations, Carnegie Mellon University’s technology commercialization enterprise.\n\n\nand organizational excellence which has been presented since 1991 by the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM).\nwww.efqm.org Similar awards are presented by the EFQM's National Partner organisations across Europe. For example, in the UK the British Quality Foundation (BQF) run the UK Excellence Awards. These awards are based on the EFQM Excellence Model, an organizational framework. www.bqf.org.uk\n\nSince 1995, the American Society for Quality has offered a Certified Manager of Quality/ Organizational Excellence (CMQ/OE). This was known until 2005 as the Certified Quality Manager (CQM).ASQ\n\nQuality Management Software is a category of technologies used by organizations to manage the delivery of high quality products. Solutions range in functionality, however, with the use of automation capabilities they typically have components for managing internal and external risk, compliance, and the quality of processes and products. Pre-configured and industry-specific solutions are available and generally require integration with existing IT architecture applications such as ERP, SCM, CRM, and PLM.\n\nQuality Management Software Functionalities\n\nEnterprise Quality Management Software\n\nThe intersection of technology and quality management software prompted the emergence of a new software category: Enterprise Quality Management Software (EQMS). EQMS is a platform for cross-functional communication and collaboration that centralizes, standardizes, and streamlines quality management data from across the value chain. The software breaks down functional silos created by traditionally implemented standalone and targeted solutions. Supporting the proliferation and accessibility of information across supply chain activities, design, production, distribution, and service, it provides a holistic viewpoint for managing the quality of products and processes.\n\n\n\n\nCraig M. Becker, Mary A. Glascoff, (2014) \"Process measures: a leadership tool for management\", The TQM Journal, Vol. 26 Issue: 1, pp.50-62, https://doi.org/10.1108/TQM-02-2013-0018\n\n"}
{"id": "31701163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31701163", "title": "Rebecca Aguilar", "text": "Rebecca Aguilar\n\nRebecca Aguilar (born 1958), a television commentator, news consultant, social media trainer and freelance reporter in the Dallas area.\n\nRebecca Aguilar is currently a freelance reporter, television commentator, news consultant, social media columnist and motivational speaker. Aguilar has worked for several television stations around the country, including KTXD-TV (Dallas) where she was a TV commentator. She has worked as a television reporter at WDHO-TV in Toledo Ohio, KRIS-TV in Corpus Christi, TX, KENS-TV, San Antonio, TX, \"USA Today on TV\" in Washington, DC, KPNX-TV in Phoenix, AZ, KNBC-TV in Los Angeles, CA, and KDFW-TV, Dallas, TX.\n\nHer first reporting post in 1981 was at ABC in Toledo. She has won 50 awards and nominations for her journalism work, including several Emmys. Her last Emmy nomination happened in 2014 when she was nominated for her work on the TV show, The Texas Daily. In 2005, Texas AP named her reporter of the year. The National Association of Hispanic Journalists named her Broadcast Journalist of the Year in 2007, and she has been a member of their board since 2010 as the general at-large officer.\n\nAguilar was suspended by KDFW-TV, a Fox affiliate, on 16 October 2007 following an interview the previous day with a 70-year-old salvage merchant.\" Aguilar told Uncle Barky, a media critic in Dallas that the news managers gave her the assignment and approved the interview to air on KDFW, but made her the scapegoat when numerous viewers complained to the station.\n\nShe received threats for the report. Although news management assigned her to the elderly man's interview, they would later claim it was \"overly aggressive\". Following her firing in March 2008, Aguilar filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. She unsuccessfully sued Fox for wrongful dismissal, losing the jury trial in December 2010.\n\nAguilar continues to freelance in journalism but now has one of the largest Latina virtual groups on Facebook and LinkedIn. Facebook.\n\nAguilar has also been recognized with two national social media awards from Latinos in Social Media also known as LATISM. It has awarded Aguilar in 2011 and 2013 as \"Social Network Leader\" of the year. Today Wise Latinas Linked has a following of more than 8,000 women.\n\nAguilar was born in Napoleon, Ohio. Her parents were undocumented workers who came to this country from Mexico. Her parents eventually obtained green cards. Her father was a union organizer at United Auto Workers. Her mother became a migrants rights advocate. Together her parents worked on civil rights issues. Aguilar grew up picking vegetables in the fields of Ohio and Michigan.\n\nAguilar graduated from Napoleon High School and got her Communications degree from Bowling Green State University, minoring in journalism.\n\nIn 2015, the Napoleon High School Alumni board honored Aguilar with the Hall of Fame award for her achievements in journalism.\n"}
{"id": "28589199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28589199", "title": "Red Bull Stratos", "text": "Red Bull Stratos\n\nRed Bull Stratos was a space diving project involving Austrian skydiver Felix Baumgartner. On 14 October 2012, Baumgartner flew approximately into the stratosphere over New Mexico, United States, in a helium balloon before free falling in a pressure suit and then parachuting to Earth. The total jump, from leaving the capsule to landing on the ground, lasted approximately ten minutes. While the free fall was initially expected to last between five and six minutes, Baumgartner deployed his parachute after 4 minutes and 19 seconds.\n\nReaching —Baumgartner broke the sound barrier on his descent, thus becoming the first human to do so without any form of engine power. Measurements show Baumgartner also broke two other world records. With a final altitude of , Baumgartner broke the unofficial record for the highest manned balloon flight of previously set by Nicholas Piantanida. He also broke the record for the highest altitude jump, set in 1960 by retired USAF Colonel Joseph Kittinger, who was Baumgartner's mentor and capsule communicator at mission control. These claims were verified by the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI).\n\nBaumgartner's jump was 65 years, to the day, after Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier for the first time in a piloted aircraft.\n\nIn January 2010, it was reported that Baumgartner was working with a team of scientists and sponsor Red Bull to attempt the highest sky-dive on record. By wearing the Equivital LifeMonitor, researchers were able to monitor Felix Baumgartner’s physiological response within an extreme environment. Baumgartner was going to make the jump from a capsule suspended from a balloon filled with helium, intending to become the first parachutist to break the sound barrier.\nThis would be possible because while the normal terminal velocity of a skydiver freeflying is about 320 km/h (200 mph or 90 m/s), the high altitude with less dense atmosphere would decrease drag. On 12 October 2010, Red Bull announced it was placing the project on hold after Daniel Hogan filed a lawsuit in California Superior Court in Los Angeles, California, USA in April, claiming he originated the idea of the parachute dive from the edge of space in 2004 and that Red Bull stole the idea from him. The lawsuit was resolved out of court in June 2011 and on 5 February 2012, it was reported that the project would be resumed.\n\nOn 15 March 2012, Baumgartner completed the first of two test jumps, from . During the jump, he spent approximately three minutes and 43 seconds in free fall, claiming to have reached speeds of more than , before opening his parachute. In total, the jump lasted approximately eight minutes and eight seconds and Baumgartner became only the third person to parachute safely from a height of over .\n\nOn 25 July 2012, Baumgartner completed the second of two planned test jumps, from . It took Baumgartner about 90 minutes to reach the target altitude and his free fall was estimated to have lasted three minutes and 48 seconds before his parachutes were deployed. Baumgartner landed safely near Roswell, New Mexico, USA. His top speed was an estimated according to Brian Utley, an official observer on site. The jump represented a personal best for Baumgartner. Joseph Kittinger, who parachuted from 31,300 m (102,800 feet) in 1960, became involved with the mission to advise Baumgartner and to help gather scientific data on next-generation full pressure suits.\n\nThe project's original scheduled launch on the morning of 9 October 2012 was delayed five hours because of weather problems. Technicians at the launch site also found that one of the capsule's communication radios was faulty. At 11:42 MDT, the launch was aborted due to a gust of wind at the launch site. The launch was rescheduled for the morning of 11 October, though the project's meteorologist announced that the date would again be postponed.\n\nThe capsule was launched from Roswell International Air Center at 09:30 MDT (15:30 UTC) on 14 October 2012, which was also the 65th anniversary of Chuck Yeager's Bell X-1 flight. The weather at launch was clear, with south-easterly winds blowing at . The ground temperature was . Baumgartner's ascent took approximately 2 hours, after which the capsule levelled at approximately . A valve in the balloon was used to vent gas to control the ascent.\n\nShortly after passing the Armstrong limit, Baumgartner expressed concerns that his visor heater was not functioning properly. Mission Control continued with the mission, and 40 minutes later announced that the jump would continue regardless of the reported problem. An abort procedure—which would have seen helium vented from the balloon to allow the capsule to descend—was considered.\n\nAfter approximately 2½ hours of ascent, Baumgartner and mission control began the egress procedures. This involved depressurisation of the capsule, detachment of his umbilical air supplies, and adjusting the capsule interior ready for decamp. As the final checks were being undertaken, Kittinger said to Baumgartner, \"OK, we're getting serious now, Felix\".\n\nFifteen minutes after the egress checks began, the pressure between the capsule and the outside stabilized and the door opened. One of the last items was for Baumgartner to enable his suit cameras. With this, Kittinger radioed Baumgartner for the last time:\n\nStanding on the step of the capsule, Baumgartner made a short address:\n\nBaumgartner saluted and dove forward off the ledge at 12:08 MDT (18:08 UTC); Mission Control acknowledged this by saying \"jumper away\". After 42 seconds of descent Baumgartner reached his maximum velocity—an unverified . An uncontrolled spin started within the first minute of the jump which could have been fatal, but it ended at 01:23 when Baumgartner regained stability, though in a later press conference he likened the fall in the suit to \"swimming without feeling the water\" as he could not feel the air to give him a sense of direction. Baumgartner had an abort switch that would have allowed deployment of a drogue parachute, which would have arrested the spin but also would have prevented him from breaking any speed records.\n\nAfter 03:40 of free fall Baumgartner radioed to Mission Control that his visor was fogging up, echoing his earlier concerns about its heating. After 04:16 minutes of free fall he deployed his parachute, which opened and arrested freefall at 4:20 minutes. At the deployment altitude Baumgartner could have continued to fall safely for another 20 seconds, but it was difficult for him to verify his exact altitude. At 12:17 MDT (18:17 UTC), approximately 9 minutes after jumping from the capsule, Baumgartner landed on his feet in eastern New Mexico. Baumgartner dropped to his knees and punched the air before being met by ground crews. A helicopter was dispatched to return Baumgartner to the Roswell base.\n\nAccording to YouTube the jump was viewed live by over 9.5 million users, setting a record for the \"live stream with the most concurrent views ever on YouTube\".\n\nThe capsule returned to the ground via its own parachute, and landed approximately east of Baumgartner's landing site. While the capsule could theoretically be reused, the balloon was only made for a single use.\n\nOn 22 February 2013, FAI announced that Baumgartner had broken three of the four planned records.\n\nThe jump records Baumgartner attained:\n\nThe timeline for the mission was split into eight stages. Stages 1 and 2 covered the balloon's ascent, stages 3–7 covered the descent and landing, and stage 8 covered the return of the balloon and capsule:\n\n\nThere were many unknowns about what would happen with Baumgartner when he jumped, the biggest of which was what breaking the sound barrier would do to his body. Gathered information on the feasibility of high-altitude bailouts will be useful to the budding commercial space-flight industry. Dr. Jonathan Clark, medical director of the project, said: \n\nThe project provided data for the development of high-performance, high-altitude parachute systems. It has been stated these will inform the development of new ideas for emergency evacuation from vehicles, such as spacecraft, passing through the stratosphere.\n\nWhile the jump altitude was generally described as the \"edge of space\" in the media, critics questioned that label, pointing that the more scientifically accepted definition for the \"edge of space\" is the Kármán line at , or nearly three times the height of the project's jump altitude. The 100 km altitude is also used as a defining line by the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale, which administers aeronautics records worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37468198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37468198", "title": "SS John Burke", "text": "SS John Burke\n\nSS \"John Burke\" (MC hull number 609) was an American Liberty Ship built during World War II, one of the 2,710 type 'EC2-S-C1' ships that carried all kinds and types of dry cargo during the war. The ship was named for John Burke (February 25, 1859 – May 14, 1937), the 10th Governor of North Dakota. \"Burke\" was built at Kaiser Shipbuilding Company's Oregon Shipbuilding yard in Portland, Oregon. \"Burke's\" keel was laid November 20, 1942 and the hull was launched on December 13. After fitting-out, \"Burke\" was delivered to the US Maritime Commission on December 23, just 33 days after construction began. The War Shipping Administration then placed \"Burke\" under management of the Northland Transportation Company.\n\nOn December 28, 1944, while transporting ammunition to Mindoro, Philippines, \"Burke\" was hit by a Japanese kamikaze aircraft, and disintegrated in a tremendous explosion with the loss of all hands. \"John Burke\" was one of three Liberty Ships and one of forty-seven ships sunk by kamikaze attack during World War II.\n\n\"John Burke\" was powered by two oil-fired boilers and a single vertical type, triple-expansion reciprocating steam engine. The machinery space (dark blue in the picture) was located at the middle of the ship. The single propeller was driven through a long propeller shaft that ran through a tunnel (lower green area in the picture) under the aft cargo holds. The propeller rotated at 76 rpm, giving a speed of about . There were two decks running the full length of the ship, with seven watertight bulkheads dividing the machinery space and five cargo holds (light blue in the picture), three ahead of the machinery space and two aft. Crew accommodations were provided in a large three-deck structure located in the middle of the ship (medium blue in the picture) directly above the machinery space, and in a small structure (medium blue in the picture) located at the stern. The bridge, radio room and Captain's quarters were located on the top deck (yellow in the picture) of the three-deck structure. The fuel for the boiler was carried in several tanks (red in the picture) located throughout the ship. Ship's storage (light green in the picture) was located at the bow and above the machinery space. Gun crew quarters and the ship's hospital were located in the stern structure. When the ship was armed, the gun 'tubs' (white in the picture) were located at the bow, stern and above the bridge. These could be any mixture of caliber gun|]], , caliber gun|]], , and/or caliber guns.\n\nThe ship's steering was by a contrabalanced rudder (black, at left in the picture), with its associated steering gear located in a compartment (green in the picture) above the rudder and below the aft structure. Steam-powered generators provided electric power for radios, navigation equipment, refrigeration compressors, pumps, lighting, and degaussing. An evaporator produced fresh water for the boilers and for the crew.\nLarge hatches above the cargo holds allowed steam winches and booms rigged to three centerline masts to quickly load or unload cargo.\n\nLiberty ships were an expedient solution to a pressing problem, and it was never intended that they last more than five years. It is remarkable that two (SS \"John W. Brown\" and SS \"Jeremiah O'Brien\") have not only survived seventy plus years of service, but that they are in 'like-new' condition, and are open to the public as museums. The British needed a way to replace the ships lost to German U-boats, but did not have the resources to build them. In 1939, they asked the United States to help solve the problem, bringing a ship design that they wanted built. The design was modified to fit American production methods, and five new shipyards were built to give the shipbuilding industry capacity. These ships were called Ocean ships with each ship's name starting with Ocean.\n\nThe United States needed more ships as war approached. The 'Ocean' design was revised and simplified to allow mass production. This new design was the basis for the Liberty ship. On December 7, 1941 Japan attacked the military bases at Hawaii, Guam, and a few days later, the Philippines. Liberty ships carried weapons, ammunition, food, tools, hardware, vehicles, and other things for the war effort. They could also be equipped to carry a large number of troops by rigging bunks in the holds similar to those used by the armed guard. Liberty ships began taking troops and materials wherever they were needed, crossing both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Like other Liberty Ships, \"John Burke\" transported war materials between the United States and the rear areas of the Pacific War, often calling at Pearl Harbor, Australia, Guadalcanal, Hollandia and Manaus.\n\nOn what would be her final trip, \"Burke\" departed Seattle, Washington for Guam, where she spent several days loading munitions for the invasion force on the island of Mindoro. \"Burke\" then departed with the 100-ship \"Uncle Plus 13\" convoy, bound for Leyte in the Philippines. The convoy arrived at Leyte the night of December 27.\n\nJapanese forces were alerted to the convoy's arrival shortly before daybreak on December 28. A flight of six Japanese kamikaze fighter/bombers was sent up from Cebu Island shortly after dawn. If the convoy was destroyed, the U.S. forces on Mindoro would be cut off from their supply line.\n\nThat morning \"Burke\" and the other ships in the Mindoro-bound TG 77.11 (under the command of Captain George F. Mentz) were at general quarters shortly after receiving the dawn weather report that reported that air cover would not launch until the poor weather cleared. The crews began their wait for the inevitable arrival of Japanese aircraft.\n\nAt about 0815 hrs, the first kamikaze appeared on the American ship's radar, and orders were immediately given for the convoy to begin evasive maneuvering. Through holes in the clouds, the Japanese pilots sighted the large American force as it steamed through calm seas south of Cebu and Bohol Islands. Finding the convoy without air cover, a group of six Japanese planes began their attack. One of the pilots, flying an Aichi D3A \"Val\", chose \"John Burke\" as his target. Diving through heavy anti-aircraft fire, the Japanese pilot had no intention of pulling out of his steep dive. At 1020, despite the damage to his aircraft, he crashed between \"Burke\"'s #2 and #3 cargo holds.\n\nA brief flash of fire was visible to most of the ships in the convoy, and for several seconds, only smoke could be seen billowing from her hold. A few seconds later, a huge pillar of fire shot out of \"Burke's\" cargo hold, followed by an immense cloud of white smoke. Within seconds all eyes were drawn to \"Burke\" where an enormous fireball erupted as her entire cargo of munitions detonated, instantly destroying the ship and killing her crew of 40 merchant marine sailors and 28 or 29 armed guards. For several seconds, \"Burke\" was not visible under an enormous mushroom cloud of smoke, fire and explosions. Several ships nearby were damaged by the force of the blast and flying fragments. The shock wave rocked the entire convoy, and several ships reported that they had been torpedoed. A US Army \"FS\" type ship just aft of \"Burke\" was severely damaged by the blast, sinking before it could be identified. As the cloud of smoke cleared, nearby ships closed on \"Burke\"'s former position to search for survivors. It was soon clear that \"Burke\", and all men aboard her, were gone.\n\nThe Combat Air Patrol arrived at 1213 after the weather cleared, providing air cover for the next three hours.\n\nThe Japanese attack that morning was just the beginning of a two-day series of attacks on the convoy, costing several more ships and hundreds of lives. In spite of the near-constant attacks, the force reached its destination at 0648 December 30 with much-needed materiel for the Mindoro invasion.\n\nToday, SS \"John Burke's\" fragments lie below the surface, in the vicinity of 9°1'11\"N 123°26'50\"E, the location the ship was last seen, in the strait between Negros, Siquijor Islands and Dapitan, Zamboanga del Norte, Mindanao, Philippines.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "875741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875741", "title": "Sam Edwards", "text": "Sam Edwards\n\nSam Edwards (May 26, 1915 – July 28, 2004) was an American actor. His most famous role on television was as banker Bill Anderson on \"Little House on the Prairie\".\n\nBorn into a show business family, his first role was as a baby in his mother's arms. He appeared on radio in the 1930s in the \"Adventures of Sonny and Buddy\" one of the first radio serials ever syndicated, and later in \"The Edwards Family\", a series based on the life of Sam, brother Jack, sister Florida, and his parents, Edna Parks and Jack Edwards Sr. Sam was also an early cast member of one of the first radio soap operas, \"One Man's Family\".\n\nDuring World War II, Sam was inducted into the Army and ended up serving as part of the morale-building entertainment corps, spending much of the time in the African, European and India/Burma theater, travelling for a time with Dwight D. Eisenhower and George S. Patton's regiments.\n\nEdwards spent much of his retirement travelling the world with his wife of 35 years, Beverly, and attending many Old Time Radio conventions where he participated in recreations of original shows from the 1940s and 1950s, as well as newer scripts. He spent his last 24 years based in Durango, Colorado where he died.\n\nOn July 28, 2004, Edwards died of a heart attack in Durango, Colorado. He was survived by his wife, Beverly Motley Edwards, stepchildren William, Deborah and Linda Edwards, and several grandchildren.\n\nEdwards worked on a variety of radio programs. He co-starred in the comedy \"The First Hundred Years\" on ABC in 1949 and landed a starring role playing Dexter Franklin opposite Janet Waldo in the long-running \"Meet Corliss Archer\" series. He also had recurring or cast member roles in radio on \"Crime Classics\", \"Dr. Paul\", \"Father Knows Best\", \"Guiding Light\", \"Fort Laramie\", \"Gunsmoke\", \"Dragnet\", \"Suspense\", \"Escape\", \"This Is Your FBI\", \"The Six Shooter\", and \"Yours Truly, Johnny Dollar\".\n\nEdwards' first major screen role was as Chuck Ramsey in the movie serial version of \"Captain Midnight\" (1942). From 1949 to 1981, he made several film appearances, with significant roles in \"Twelve O'Clock High\" (1949), \"Operation Pacific\" (1951), \"Gangbusters\" (1954), and supporting roles in \"The Beatniks\" (1960) and \"Suppose They Gave A War and Nobody Came\" (1969). He was also seen in \"The Absent-Minded Professor\" (1961), \"Hello, Dolly!\" (1969) and \"The Postman Always Rings Twice\" (1981).\n\nEdwards appeared on many television series starting in the mid-1950s. Most notable of these include many episodes of \"Dragnet\" and \"Gunsmoke\" throughout their long runs. He also appeared on over 60 different series, including \"The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\", \"The Andy Griffith Show\", \"Petticoat Junction\", \"Green Acres\", \"Mannix\", \"\", \"The Streets of San Francisco\", \"Adam-12\", \"The Red Skelton Show\", \"Happy Days\", \"The Dukes of Hazzard\", and even \"Days of Our Lives\".\n\nAs a voice actor and radio veteran, Edwards was also often heard behind animated characters both on film and records. In 1942, he voiced the adult Thumper in the animated classic \"Bambi\". Later work for Disney was largely on LP Records, including the voices of the Cowardly Lion and Tin Woodman on their Oz series, and as the bouncy Tigger, Rabbit and Owl on the Winnie the Pooh records. He voiced the title character of Rod Rocket in an early 1960s educational series, and did some episodes of the cult classic \"Jonny Quest\". His last work for Disney was as Ollie Owl opposite singer Burl Ives as Sam the Eagle on their long-running America Sings attraction at Disneyland. There were numerous TV and radio commercials as well, both in front of and behind the camera.\n\n"}
{"id": "54982736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54982736", "title": "Sarah Bond Hanley", "text": "Sarah Bond Hanley\n\nSarah Bond Hanley (January 1865 – April 15, 1959) was an American politician most notable for being one of the first two Democratic women to serve in the Illinois General Assembly.\n\nShe was born in Leon, Iowa in 1865. She attended Monmouth College in Monmouth, Illinois. In 1889, she married attorney John Hanley with whom she would have one daughter, Helen. Hanley was a member of the first Democratic Women's Club in the country, organized in 1888. During the 1892 election, Hanley, as an officer of the club, made the first monetary campaign contribution from a women's club to a political campaign. She served on the woman's auxiliary of the Democratic Party of Illinois. She campaigned for both Woodrow Wilson and James M. Cox. In 1921, she became the first woman to participate in a judicial convention. She was a member of the Illinois delegation to the 1924 Democratic National Convention. In 1926, she and Mary C. McAdams of Quincy, Illinois became the first two Democratic women elected to the Illinois General Assembly. She served two terms, leaving the House in 1931. In addition to her involvement in the Democratic Party, she was also active as a high-ranking member of the Daughters of the American Revolution. She died April 15, 1959 in Chicago, Illinois at age 94.\n"}
{"id": "3072643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3072643", "title": "Sayona", "text": "Sayona\n\nLa Sayona is a legend from Venezuela, represented by the vengeful spirit of a woman that shows up only to men that have love affairs out of their marriages. The name \"Sayona\" refers to the cloth the ghost wears which is a long white dress similar to a medieval undergarment. \n\nThe legend claims that when this woman appears she asks for a cigarette or for a ride, and after a while when the victim tries to see her face, he notices that she has instead a skull with horrible teeth.\n\nThe legend says that \"La Sayona\" was a young woman named Casilda. She lived in a small town in the plains of Venezuela and was the most beautiful girl there. She was married to a great man, caring and loving. Casilda and her husband had a baby boy. One day, Casilda was swimming naked in a nearby river, when a man from the village saw her. After that, the man would always follow her and watch her bathe in the river. One day Casilda saw him and told him to leave her alone; he ignored her, and instead told her that he was there to warn her: \"Your husband is having an affair with none other than your mother,\" he said. Casilda ran home and found her husband asleep with the baby in his arms. Blind with anger, she burned the house with them inside. Villagers could hear their screams while Casilda ran to her mother's house. She found her on the patio and attacked her with a machete, striking her in the stomach. As the mother bled to death, she cursed Casilda by saying that from then on she would have to avenge all women by killing their unfaithful husbands. And from that day forward Casilda became \"La Sayona\".\n\nIn other versions of the tale, it appears to lone men working in the jungle when they are thinking of women they left behind in their hometown or simply when they talk to their work mates about wanting to be with a woman. Later on, a woman would appear to them in the likeness of an unknown, beautiful and desirable woman, or a loved one, and try to lure them into the forests so it could then reveal their animal-like features and devour them or just mangle them, leaving their wretched bodies for their companions to find.\n\nIn another version told in the peacock mountains, the woman would appear to men in the jungle who were lonely and willing to be unfaithful with their companion. Stories often claim that several men would take act in unveiling their selves to this ghost woman, and she would let all the men have sex with her. She would then devour their body parts, though it is most often noted that she would tear each mans genitals off with her hand or mangle them beyond use ever again, in order to punish them. Although many men in the jungle are said to have encountered La Sayona, most of them still have their genitals. It is said that she also has many strange diseases, and that she sometimes gives them to men, making their penises swollen with blisters and boils. Their wives find these boils and can assume that their husbands have had an encounter with La Sayona, effectively informing her that her husband has been unfaithful.\n\nIt is important to note that there are many versions of the La Sayona story, with greatly different characters, names, and plot points. La Sayona is often related to La Llorona.\n\n"}
{"id": "26645324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26645324", "title": "Shannon Vyff", "text": "Shannon Vyff\n\nShannon Vyff (born June 10, 1975) is an American transhumanist, cryonicist, and author. She is a director of both the Immortality Institute and the Society for Venturism.\n\nVyff's approaches in promoting transhumanism and cryonics were given exposure when her essay \"Confessions of a Proselytizing Immortalist\" was published in 2006 as part of the book \"The Scientific Conquest of Death\". Vyff has also been interviewed by the media on subjects pertaining both to her approaches in promoting cryonics to the public at large (especially to children), and her own motivations for becoming a cryonicist.\n\nVyff published a science fiction adventure novel for children, \"21st Century Kids\", in 2007.\n\nShe also is known for practicing caloric restriction for life extension purposes, and has been featured on multiple news stories regarding the prospect of life extension.\n\n\nVyff is a mother to four children, each of whom are signed up to cryonics. \n"}
{"id": "22154200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22154200", "title": "The New Meditation Handbook", "text": "The New Meditation Handbook\n\nThe New Meditation Handbook: Meditations to Make Our Life Happy and Meaningful (Tharpa Publications (2003) ) is a guide to Buddhist philosophy and meditation techniques. It is a compilation of twenty-one concise meditations on Lamrim, or the stages of the path to enlightenment, by Geshe Kelsang Gyatso, a Buddhist teacher and author in the West.\n\n\"The New Meditation Handbook\" contains twenty-one meditations on Lamrim that are designed to be followed in a cycle, thus covering all of Buddha's teachings every 21 days. The meditations are described as \"actual methods to control our mind. Because everyone has different wishes and capacities, many different levels of meditation practice are given.\"\n\nGeshe Kelsang Gyatso, a Tibetan monk, entered the monastery at the age of eight and has spent the past 30 years establishing Buddhist centers throughout the world. He provides 21 contemplative meditations to systematically guide a seeker to enlightenment according to Buddhist philosophy.\n\nThe 21 meditations are intended to give a concise overview of essential Buddhist teachings and philosophy with the purpose of increasing peace of mind, positivity, and spiritual wisdom. \"Foreword Magazine\" says: \"Geshe Kelsang Gyatso's words provide a stimulatingly peaceful perspective.\", Kirkus Reviews called it \"Clear, inspirational writing\" and Booklist says \"\"The New Meditation Handbook\" is a simple, sincere guide to Buddhist philosophy and meditation techniques. According to \"Spirituality and Health Magazine\": \"This manual provides a succinct and inspiring overview of the many ways in which Buddhism can be applied to the situations and activities of daily life.\" \n\nThe book focuses on Buddha's teaching that all human beings have potential for spiritual growth by overcoming negative minds and increasing positive ones in daily life. Donna Seaman of Booklist suggests: \"Geshe Kelsang has a unique gift for simultaneously addressing everyday difficulties--particularly in his useful and inspiring elucidation of how to control anger and practice patience--and bringing into focus the spiritual dimension in which they reverberate.\"\n\nThe author is the founder of the New Kadampa Tradition, which has 1100 Buddhist centers and groups worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "8925798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8925798", "title": "Upright jerker", "text": "Upright jerker\n\nThe upright jerker was an execution method and device intermittently used in the United States during the 19th and early 20th century. Intended to replace hangings, the upright jerker did not see widespread use.\n\nAs in a hanging, a cord would be wrapped around the neck of the condemned. However, rather than dropping down through a trapdoor, the condemned would be violently jerked into the air by means of a system of weights and pulleys. The objective of this execution method was to provide a swift death by breaking the condemned's neck. The warden of the Connecticut State Prison at Wethersfield obtained , issued on June 18, 1895, for one such \"automatic gallows\". \n\nExecutions of this type took place in several U.S. states, notably Connecticut, where among others the \"Count of Gramercy Park\", murderer and gang member Gerald Chapman was put to death by the method. The upright jerker was never very efficient at breaking the condemned's neck and was withdrawn from use by the 1930s.\n"}
{"id": "607554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607554", "title": "Vehicular homicide", "text": "Vehicular homicide\n\nVehicular homicide is a crime that involves the death of a person other than the driver as a result of either criminally negligent or murderous operation of a motor vehicle.\n\nIn cases of criminal negligence, the defendant is commonly charged with unintentional vehicular manslaughter.\n\nVehicular homicide is similar to the offense, in some countries, of \"dangerous driving causing death.\"\n\nThe victim may be either a person not in the car with the offending motorist (such as a pedestrian, cyclist, or another motorist), or a passenger in the vehicle with the offender.\n\nThe Criminal Code does not have a specific offence for vehicular homicide, but has a series of provisions covering driving offences causing death, among them:\n\nThe maximum penalty for dangerous driving causing death, absent any of the remaining 5 elements mentioned above, is 14 years' imprisonment. The maximum penalty is otherwise life imprisonment. Anyone sentenced to life imprisonment for a Criminal Code driving offence is eligible to apply for parole after serving 7 years, but there is no guarantee of parole.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there is no offense of \"vehicular homicide\". Where a vehicle has been used as a weapon as part of a deliberate assault; and the intention was to kill or cause serious injury; and that assault resulted in the death of the victim then the driver may be charged with murder contrary to the Common Law.\n\nWhere death is the result of driving that falls short of a deliberate assault, the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA 88) governs the disposal of the case. The offenses created by this act relating to road deaths are as follows ...\n\n\nThe RTA 88 introduced the simple concept of dangerousness by removing the offence of \"reckless driving\" as the concept of recklessness in UK law requires a mens rea. This had been difficult to prove in court. C. M. V. Clarkson, an advocate of a vehicular homicide offense, opines that while people's perceptions are that death resulting from a motor vehicle is in a different \"family\" to other killings, \"in terms of fault there can be little distinction between those who kill through the dangerous operation of their cars and those who kill with machines, trains, etc.\"\n\nIn addition to the above there also exists the option of charging offenders with causing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving. \n\nOriginally framed in the era of horse-drawn vehicles this legislation is now applied where offences involving motorised vehicles take place outside the provisions of the Road Traffic Act (on private land, when driving off-road or in pedestrianised areas) and in the small number of serious cases involving non-motorised collisions such as the few that involve cyclists and result in severe injury or loss of life, typically of pedestrians.\n\nThe definition and penalties of vehicular manslaughter in the United States vary by state.\n\nAll states except Alaska, Montana, and Arizona have vehicular homicide statutes. The laws have the effect of making a vehicle a potentially deadly weapon, to allow for easier conviction and more severe penalties; in states without such statutes, defendants can still be charged with manslaughter or murder in some situations.\n\nIn the Model Penal Code, there is no distinction between vehicular homicide and vehicular homicides that involve negligence; instead, both are included in the overall category of negligent homicide.\n\nIn the state of California, depending on the degree of recklessness and whether alcohol was involved, a person could be charged with progressively more serious offenses: vehicular manslaughter, vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, or second-degree murder. In any of these cases, the prosecution must prove that the driver committed some wrongful act (which could be a felony, a misdemeanor, an infraction, or a lawful act that might cause death) and that the wrongful act caused the collision and the death of the victim. Murder charges are usually reserved for the most egregious cases, such as a convicted DUI offender who drives recklessly while intoxicated and thereby causes a fatal collision.\n\nIn the state of Georgia, vehicular homicide is more properly known as homicide by vehicle. It is defined, by statute, as the unlawful killing of another person using a vehicle. To be guilty of the offense, the perpetrator does not have to have an intent to kill, malice aforethought, or premeditation.\n\nThere are two degrees of vehicular homicide:\n\nIn the state of Louisiana, vehicular homicide is defined as the killing of a human being while operating a motor vehicle, or other means of conveyance, under the influence of alcohol and/or controlled substances. The minimum punishment is a fine of at least $2,000 (not more than $15,000) and 5–30 years in prison.\n\nThe law is LSA RS 14:32.1.\n\nIn the state of Minnesota, vehicular homicide is one of the six levels of criminal vehicular operation, and is defined as causing the death of a person, that does not constitute murder or manslaughter, as a result of operating a motor vehicle in a grossly negligent manner, or in a negligent manner while in violation of the driving while intoxicated law, or where the driver flees the scene in violation of the felony fleeing law. Vehicular homicide in Minnesota requires, at a minimum, a \"mens rea\" of gross negligence.\n\nIn the state of Texas, an individual charged with vehicular manslaughter even if intoxicated with alcohol can receive the following penalties and punishments under Chapter 12 of the Texas Penal Code. Manslaughter in Texas is generally a felony of the second degree. This offense can result in a prison sentence from two to 20 years and/or fines up to $10,000.\n\nVehicular homicide in Washington state, is governed by \"RCW 46.61.520 Vehicular homicide—Penalty.\"\n\nA study by professors at Dartmouth College and Harvard University found that those convicted of vehicular homicide are given, on average, shorter sentences than those found guilty of other types of homicide. The study found that the gender of the offender does not statistically affect the length of the sentence, but the race does. The identity of the victim is a more important predictor of sentencing length, with longer sentences given to offenders in cases where the victim was female and/or had no violent criminal record.\n\nSome states, such as Minnesota, have statutes allowing for a charge of a vehicular homicide if an unborn child is killed or injured by a motorist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1430921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430921", "title": "Viral shift", "text": "Viral shift\n\nA viral shift is the sudden emergence of a seemingly novel strain of a virus. It is a prerequisite viral condition for pandemics. An existing virus undergoes a change and becomes a pathogen, such as the constantly mutating \"A\" strain of influenza in which the change is known as an antigenic shift. Existing vaccines or natural antibodies cannot produce an immune response to the new strain.\n\nViral shift is caused by viral subunit reassortment, as opposed to simple random mutation.\n"}
{"id": "49901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49901", "title": "Virtue", "text": "Virtue\n\nVirtue (, \"arete\") is moral excellence. A virtue is a trait or quality that is deemed to be morally good and thus is valued as a foundation of principle and good moral being. Personal virtues are characteristics valued as promoting collective and individual greatness. In other words, it is a behavior that shows high moral standards. Doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong. The opposite of virtue is vice. \n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are temperance, prudence, courage, and justice. Christianity derives the three theological virtues of faith, hope and love (charity) from 1 Corinthians. Together these make up the seven virtues. Buddhism's four brahmavihara (\"Divine States\") can be regarded as virtues in the European sense. The Japanese Bushidō code is characterized by up to ten virtues, including rectitude, courage, and benevolence.\n\nThe ancient Romans used the Latin word \"virtus\" (derived from \"vir\", their word for \"man\") to refer to all of the \"excellent qualities of men, including physical strength, valorous conduct, and moral rectitude.\" The French words \"vertu\" and \"virtu\" came from this Latin root. In the 13th century, the word \"virtue\" was \"borrowed into English\".\n\nDuring Egyptian civilization, Maat or Ma'at (thought to have been pronounced *[muʔ.ʕat]), also spelled māt or mayet, was the ancient Egyptian concept of truth, balance, order, law, morality, and justice. Maat was also personified as a goddess regulating the stars, seasons, and the actions of both mortals and the deities. The deities set the order of the universe from chaos at the moment of creation. Her (ideological) counterpart was Isfet, who symbolized chaos, lies, and injustice.\n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are:\n\nThis enumeration is traced to Greek philosophy and was listed by Plato in addition to piety: (hosiotēs), with the exception that wisdom replaced prudence as virtue. Some scholars consider either of the above four virtue combinations as mutually reducible and therefore not cardinal.\n\nIt is unclear whether multiple virtues were of later construct, and whether Plato subscribed to a unified view of virtues. In \"Protagoras\" and \"Meno\", for example, he states that the separate virtues cannot exist independently and offers as evidence the contradictions of acting with wisdom, yet in an unjust way; or acting with bravery (fortitude), yet without wisdom.\n\nIn his work \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle defined a virtue as a point between a deficiency and an excess of a trait. The point of greatest virtue lies not in the exact middle, but at a golden mean sometimes closer to one extreme than the other. However, the virtuous action is not simply the \"mean\" (mathematically speaking) between two opposite extremes. As Aristotle says in the Nicomachean Ethics: \"at the right times, about the right things, towards the right people, for the right end, and in the right way, is the intermediate and best condition, and this is proper to virtue.\" This is not simply splitting the difference between two extremes. For example, generosity is a virtue between the two extremes of miserliness and being profligate. Further examples include: courage between cowardice and foolhardiness, and confidence between self-deprecation and vanity. In Aristotle's sense, virtue is excellence at being human.\n\nSeneca, the Roman Stoic, said that perfect prudence is indistinguishable from perfect virtue. Thus, in considering all consequences, a prudent person would act in the same way as a virtuous person. The same rationale was expressed by Plato in Meno, when he wrote that people only act in ways that they perceive will bring them maximum good. It is the lack of wisdom that results in the making of a bad choice instead of a prudent one. In this way, wisdom is the central part of virtue. Plato realized that because virtue was synonymous with wisdom it could be taught, a possibility he had earlier discounted. He then added \"correct belief\" as an alternative to knowledge, proposing that knowledge is merely correct belief that has been thought through and \"tethered\".\n\nThe term \"virtue\" itself is derived from the Latin \"virtus\" (the personification of which was the deity Virtus), and had connotations of \"manliness\", \"honour\", worthiness of deferential respect, and civic duty as both citizen and soldier. This virtue was but one of many virtues which Romans of good character were expected to exemplify and pass on through the generations, as part of the Mos Maiorum; ancestral traditions which defined \"Roman-ness\". Romans distinguished between the spheres of private and public life, and thus, virtues were also divided between those considered to be in the realm of private family life (as lived and taught by the paterfamilias), and those expected of an upstanding Roman citizen.\n\nMost Roman concepts of virtue were also personified as a numinous deity. The primary Roman virtues, both public and private, were:\n\nIn 410 CE, Aurelius Prudentius Clemens listed seven \"heavenly virtues\" in his book Psychomachia (Battle of Souls) which is an allegorical story of conflict between vices and virtues. The virtues depicted were:\n\nIn the 8th Century, upon the occasion of his coronation as Holy Roman Emperor Charlemagne published a list of knightly virtues:\n\nLove God\nLove your neighbour\nGive alms to the poor\nEntertain strangers\nVisit the sick\nBe merciful to prisoners\nDo ill to no man, nor consent unto such\nForgive as ye hope to be forgiven\nRedeem the captive\nHelp the oppressed\nDefend the cause of the widow and orphan\nRender righteous judgement\nDo not consent to any wrong\nPersevere not in wrath\nShun excess in eating and drinking\nBe humble and kind\nServe your liege lord faithfully\nDo not steal\nDo not perjure yourself, nor let others do so\nEnvy, hatred and violence separate men from the Kingdom of God\nDefend the Church and promote her cause.\n\nLoving God and obeying his laws, in particular the Ten Commandments, are central to Jewish conceptions of virtue. Wisdom is personified in the first eight chapters of the Book of Proverbs and is not only the source of virtue but is depicted as the first and best creation of God (Proverbs 8:12-31). Wisdom is also celebrated in the Book of Wisdom.\n\nA classic articulation of the Golden Rule came from the first century Rabbi Hillel the Elder. Renowned in the Jewish tradition as a sage and a scholar, he is associated with the development of the Mishnah and the Talmud and, as such, one of the most important figures in Jewish history. Asked for a summary of the Jewish religion in the most concise terms, Hillel replied (reputedly while standing on one leg): \"That which is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow. That is the whole Torah. The rest is commentary; go and learn.\"\n\nIn Christianity, the three theological virtues are faith, hope and love, a list which comes from 1 Corinthians 13:13 ( \"pistis\" (faith), \"elpis\" (hope), \"agape\" (love), ). The same chapter describes love as the greatest of the three, and further defines love as \"patient, kind, not envious, boastful, arrogant, or rude.\" (The Christian virtue of love is sometimes called charity and at other times a Greek word agape is used to contrast the love of God and the love of humankind from other types of love such as friendship or physical affection.)\n\nChristian scholars frequently add the four Greek cardinal virtues (prudence, justice, temperance, and courage) to the theological virtues to give the seven virtues; for example, these seven are the ones described in the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", sections 1803–1829.\n\nThe Bible mentions additional virtues, such as in the \"Fruit of the Holy Spirit,\" found in Galatians 5:22-23: \"By contrast, the fruit of the Spirit it is benevolent-love: joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, benevolence, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. There is absolutely no law against such a thing.\"\n\nThe medieval and renaissance periods saw a number of models of sin listing the seven deadly sins and the virtues opposed to each.\n\nIn Islam, the Qur'an is believed to be the literal word of God, and the definitive description of virtue. Muhammad is considered an ideal example of virtue in human form. The hadiths, his reported sayings, are central to the Islamic understanding of virtue.\n\nVirtue is defined in hadith. It is reported by An-Nawwas bin Sam'an:\nWabisah bin Ma’bad reported:\nFor Muslims fulfilling the human rights are valued as an important building block of Islam, According to Muslim beliefs Allah will forgive individual sins but the bad treatment of humans and injustice with others will only be pardoned by the humans and not by Allah.\nIn Jainism, attainment of enlightenment is possible only if the seeker possesses certain virtues. All Jains are supposed to take up the five vows of ahimsa (non violence), satya (truthfulness), asteya (non stealing), aparigraha (non attachment and brahmacharya (celibacy) before becoming a monk. These vows are laid down by the Tirthankaras. Other virtues which are supposed to be followed by both monks as well as laypersons include forgiveness, humility, self-restraint and straightforwardness. These vows assists the seeker to escape from the karmic bondages thereby escaping the cycle of birth and death to attain liberation.\n\nVirtue is a much debated and an evolving concept in ancient scriptures of Hinduism. The essence, need and value of virtue is explained in Hindu philosophy as something that cannot be imposed, but something that is realized and voluntarily lived up to by each individual. For example, Apastamba explained it thus: \"virtue and vice do not go about saying - here we are!; neither the Gods, Gandharvas, nor ancestors can convince us - this is right, this is wrong; virtue is an elusive concept, it demands careful and sustained reflection by every man and woman before it can become part of one's life.\n\nVirtues lead to \"punya\" (Sanskrit: पुण्य, holy living) in Hindu literature; while vices lead to \"pap\" (Sanskrit: पाप, sin). Sometimes, the word \"punya\" is used interchangeably with virtue.\n\nThe virtues that constitute a dharmic life - that is a moral, ethical, virtuous life - evolve in vedas and upanishads. Over time, new virtues were conceptualized and added by ancient Hindu scholars, some replaced, others merged. For example, Manusamhita initially listed ten virtues necessary for a human being to live a \"dharmic\" life: \"Dhriti\" (courage), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Indriyani-graha\" (control of senses), \"dhi\" (reflective prudence), \"vidya\" (wisdom), \"satyam\" (truthfulness), \"akrodha\" (freedom from anger). In later verses, this list was reduced to five virtues by the same scholar, by merging and creating a more broader concept. The shorter list of virtues became: \"Ahimsa\" (Non-violence), \"Dama\" (self restraint), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Satyam\" (truthfulness).\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita - considered one of the epitomes of historic Hindu discussion of virtues and an allegorical debate on what is right and what is wrong - argues some virtues are not necessarily always absolute, but sometimes relational; for example, it explains a virtue such as Ahimsa must be re-examined when one is faced with war or violence from the aggressiveness, immaturity or ignorance of others.\n\nBuddhist practice as outlined in the Noble Eightfold Path can be regarded as a progressive list of virtues.\n\nBuddhism's four \"brahmavihara\" (\"Divine States\") can be more properly regarded as virtues in the European sense. They are:\n\nThere are also the Paramitas (\"perfections\"), which are the culmination of having acquired certain virtues. In Theravada Buddhism's canonical Buddhavamsa there are Ten Perfections (\"dasa pāramiyo\"). In Mahayana Buddhism, the Lotus Sutra (\"Saddharmapundarika\"), there are Six Perfections; while in the Ten Stages (\"Dasabhumika\") Sutra, four more \"Paramitas\" are listed.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, virtues are direct spiritual qualities that the human soul possesses, inherited from the world of God. The development and manifestation of these virtues is the theme of the \"Hidden Words\" of Bahá'u'lláh and are discussed in great detail as the underpinnings of a divinely-inspired society by `Abdu'l-Bahá in such texts as \"The Secret of Divine Civilization\".\n\n\"Virtue\", translated from Chinese \"de\" (), is also an important concept in Chinese philosophy, particularly Daoism. \"De\" () originally meant normative \"virtue\" in the sense of \"personal character; inner strength; integrity\", but semantically changed to moral \"virtue; kindness; morality\". Note the semantic parallel for English \"\", with an archaic meaning of \"inner potency; divine power\" (as in \"by virtue of\") and a modern one of \"moral excellence; goodness\".\n\nIn early periods of Confucianism, moral manifestations of \"virtue\" include \"ren\" (\"humanity\"), \"xiao\" (\"filial piety\"), and \"li\" (\"proper behavior, performance of rituals\"). The notion of ren - according to Simon Leys - means \"humanity\" and \"goodness\". Ren originally had the archaic meaning in the Confucian Book of Poems of \"virility\", but progressively took on shades of ethical meaning. Some scholars consider the virtues identified in early Confucianism as non-theistic philosophy.\n\nThe Daoist concept of \"De\", compared to Confucianism, is more subtle, pertaining to the \"virtue\" or ability that an individual realizes by following the Dao (\"the Way\"). One important normative value in much of Chinese thinking is that one's social status should result from the amount of virtue that one demonstrates, rather than from one's birth. In the \"Analects\", Confucius explains \"de\" as follows: \"He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it.\" In later periods, particularly from the Tang dynasty period, Confucianism as practiced, absorbed and melded its own concepts of virtues with those from Daoism and Buddhism.\n\nIn Hagakure, Yamamoto Tsunetomo encapsulates his views on 'virtue' in the four vows he makes daily:\n\nYamamoto goes on to say:\nIf one dedicates these four vows to the gods and Buddhas every morning, he will have the strength of two men and never slip backward. One must edge forward like the inchworm, bit by bit. The gods and Buddhas, too, first started with a vow.\n\nThe Bushidō code is typified by seven virtues:\n\nOthers that are sometimes added to these:\n\nWhile religious scriptures generally consider \"dharma\" or \"aṟam\" (the Tamil term for virtue) as a divine virtue, Valluvar describes it as a way of life rather than any spiritual observance, a way of harmonious living that leads to universal happiness. For this reason, Valluvar keeps \"aṟam\" as the cornerstone throughout the writing of the Kural literature. Valluvar considered justice as a facet or product of \"aram.\" While ancient Greek philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, and their descendants opined that justice cannot be defined and that it was a divine mystery, Valluvar positively suggested that a divine origin is not required to define the concept of justice. In the words of V. R. Nedunchezhiyan, justice according to Valluvar \"dwells in the minds of those who have knowledge of the standard of right and wrong; so too deceit dwells in the minds which breed fraud.\"\n\nFor the Rationalist philosopher René Descartes, virtue consists in the correct reasoning that should guide our actions. Men should seek the sovereign good that Descartes, following Zeno, identifies with virtue, as this produces a solid blessedness or pleasure. For Epicurus the sovereign good was pleasure, and Descartes says that in fact this is not in contradiction with Zeno's teaching, because virtue produces a spiritual pleasure, that is better than bodily pleasure. Regarding Aristotle's opinion that happiness depends on the goods of fortune, Descartes does not deny that these goods contribute to happiness, but remarks that they are in great proportion outside one's own control, whereas one's mind is under one's complete control.\n\nImmanuel Kant, in his \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\", expresses true virtue as different from what commonly is known about this moral trait. In Kant's view, to be goodhearted, benevolent and sympathetic is not regarded as true virtue. The only aspect that makes a human truly virtuous is to behave in accordance with moral principles. Kant presents an example for more clarification; suppose that you come across a needy person in the street; if your sympathy leads you to help that person, your response does not illustrate your virtue. In this example, since you do not afford helping all needy ones, you have behaved unjustly, and it is out of the domain of principles and true virtue. Kant applies the approach of four temperaments to distinguish truly virtuous people. According to Kant, among all people with diverse temperaments, a person with melancholy frame of mind is the most virtuous whose thoughts, words and deeds are one of principles.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche's view of virtue is based on the idea of an order of rank among people. For Nietzsche, the virtues of the strong are seen as vices by the weak and slavish, thus Nietzsche's virtue ethics is based on his distinction between master morality and slave morality. Nietzsche promotes the virtues of those he calls \"higher men\", people like Goethe and Beethoven. The virtues he praises in them are their creative powers (“the men of great creativity” - “the really great men according to my understanding” (WP 957)).\nAccording to Nietzsche these higher types are solitary, pursue a \"unifying project\", revere themselves and are healthy and life-affirming. Because mixing with the herd makes one base, the higher type “strives instinctively for a citadel and a secrecy where he is saved from the crowd, the many, the great majority…” (BGE 26). The 'Higher type' also \"instinctively seeks heavy responsibilities\" (WP 944) in the form of an \"organizing idea\" for their life, which drives them to artistic and creative work and gives them psychological health and strength. The fact that the higher types are \"healthy\" for Nietzsche does not refer to physical health as much as a psychological resilience and fortitude. Finally, a Higher type affirms life because he is willing to accept the eternal return of his life and affirm this forever and unconditionally.\n\nIn the last section of \"Beyond Good and Evil\", Nietzsche outlines his thoughts on the noble virtues and places solitude as one of the highest virtues:\n\nAnd to keep control over your four virtues: courage, insight, sympathy, solitude. Because solitude is a virtue for us, since it is a sublime inclination and impulse to cleanliness which shows that contact between people (“society”) inevitably makes things unclean. Somewhere, sometime, every\ncommunity makes people – “base.” (BGE §284)\n\nNietzsche also sees truthfulness as a virtue:\n\nGenuine honesty, assuming that this is our virtue and we cannot get rid of it, we free spirits – well then, we will want to work on it with all the love and malice at our disposal and not get tired of ‘perfecting’ ourselves in our virtue, the only one we have left: may its glory come to rest like a gilded, blue evening glow of mockery over this aging culture and its dull and dismal seriousness! (Beyond Good and Evil, §227)\n\nThese are the virtues that Benjamin Franklin used to develop what he called 'moral perfection'. He had a checklist in a notebook to measure each day how he lived up to his virtues.\n\nThey became known through Benjamin Franklin's autobiography.\n\n\nMarc Jackson in his book \"Emotion and Psyche\" puts forward a new development of the virtues. He identifies the virtues as what he calls the good emotions \"The first group consisting of love, kindness, joy, faith, awe and pity is good\" These virtues differ from older accounts of the virtues because they are not character traits expressed by action, but emotions that are to be felt and developed by feeling not acting.\nAyn Rand held that her morality, the , contained a single axiom: existence exists, and a single choice: to live. All values and virtues proceed from these. To live, man must hold three fundamental values that one develops and achieves in life: Reason, Purpose, and Self-Esteem. A value is \"that which one acts to gain and/or keep ... and the virtue[s] [are] the act[ions] by which one gains and/or keeps it.\" The primary virtue in Objectivist ethics is rationality, which as Rand meant it is \"the recognition and acceptance of reason as one's only source of knowledge, one's only judge of values and one's only guide to action.\" These values are achieved by passionate and consistent action and the virtues are the policies for achieving those fundamental values. Ayn Rand describes seven virtues: rationality, productiveness, pride, independence, integrity, honesty and justice. The first three represent the three primary virtues that correspond to the three fundamental values, whereas the final four are derived from the virtue of rationality. She claims that virtue is not an end in itself, that virtue is not its own reward nor sacrificial fodder for the reward of evil, that life is the reward of virtue and happiness is the goal and the reward of life. Man has a single basic choice: to think or not, and that is the gauge of his virtue. Moral perfection is an unbreached rationality, not the degree of your intelligence but the full and relentless use of your mind, not the extent of your knowledge but the acceptance of reason as an absolute.\n\nChristopher Peterson and Martin Seligman, two leading researchers in positive psychology, recognizing the deficiency inherent in psychology's tendency to focus on dysfunction rather than on what makes a healthy and stable personality, set out to develop a list of \"Character Strengths and Virtues\". After three years of study, 24 traits (classified into six broad areas of virtue) were identified, having \"a surprising amount of similarity across cultures and strongly indicat[ing] a historical and cross-cultural convergence.\" These six categories of virtue are courage, justice, humanity, temperance, transcendence, and wisdom. Some psychologists suggest that these virtues are adequately grouped into fewer categories; for example, the same 24 traits have been grouped into simply: Cognitive Strengths, Temperance Strengths, and Social Strengths.\n\nThe opposite of a virtue is a vice. Vice is a habitual, repeated practice of wrongdoing. One way of organizing the vices is as the corruption of the virtues.\n\nAs Aristotle noted, however, the virtues can have several opposites. Virtues can be considered the mean between two extremes, as the Latin maxim dictates \"in medio stat virtus\" - in the centre lies virtue. For instance, both cowardice and rashness are opposites of courage; contrary to prudence are both over-caution and insufficient caution; the opposites of pride (a virtue) are undue humility and excessive vanity. A more \"modern\" virtue, tolerance, can be considered the mean between the two extremes of narrow-mindedness on the one hand and over-acceptance on the other. Vices can therefore be identified as the opposites of virtues - but with the caveat that each virtue could have many different opposites, all distinct from each other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1239491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1239491", "title": "Water torture", "text": "Water torture\n\nWater torture encompasses a variety of techniques using water to inflict physical or psychological harm on a victim as a form of torture or execution.\n\nIn this form of water torture, water is forced down the throat and into the stomach. It was used as a legal torture and execution method by the courts in France in the 17th and 18th century. At the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century it was used against Filipinos by American Forces during the Philippine–American War and was employed against British Commonwealth, American and Chinese prisoners during World War II by the Japanese. The Human Rights Watch organization reports that in the 2000s, security forces in Uganda sometimes forced a detainee to lie face up under an open water spigot.\n\nWater intoxication can result from drinking too much water. This has caused some fatalities over the years in fraternities in North America during initiation week. For example, a person was hazed to death by Chi Tau of Chico State (California) in 2005 via the forcing of pushups and the drinking of water from a bottle.\n\nWaterboarding refers to a technique involving water poured over the face or head of the subject, in order to evoke the instinctive fear of drowning. Often a wet cloth is placed in the subject's mouth, giving them the impression that they are drowning.\n\nWhat is called the \"Chinese water torture\" was a torture described by Hippolytus de Marsiliis in the 16th century that was supposed to drive its victim insane with the stress of water dripping on a part of the forehead for a very long time. It may also be characterised by the inconsistent pattern of water drips. There are no expert opinions on the true cause of torture in this method.\n\nThis form of torture was used in the early modern period as a trial by ordeal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2713891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2713891", "title": "Whose Life Is It Anyway? (play)", "text": "Whose Life Is It Anyway? (play)\n\nWhose Life Is It Anyway? is a play by Brian Clark adapted from his 1972 television play of the same title, which starred Ian McShane. The stage version premiered in 1978 at the Mermaid Theatre in London, and subsequently opened on Broadway in 1979. The play involves a sculptor who is paralysed.\n\nSet in a hospital room, the action revolves around Ken Harrison (Claire Harrison in some later productions), a sculptor by profession, who was paralysed from the neck down (quadriplegia) in a car accident and is determined to be allowed to die. Clark presents arguments both in favour of and opposing euthanasia and to what extent government should be allowed to interfere in the life of a private citizen. In portraying Ken as an intelligent man with a useless body, he leaves the audience with conflicting feelings about his desire to end his life.\n\nThe play was televised on 12 March 1972 by Granada TV. It was directed by Richard Everitt, with the cast that featured Ian McShane (Ken), Suzanne Neve (Dr. Scott), and Philip Latham (Dr. Emerson).\n\n\"Whose Life Is It Anyway?\" opened at the Mermaid Theatre, London, on 6 March 1978, before playing at the Savoy Theatre from June 1978 to October 1979. This production originally starred Tom Conti and Jane Asher. Conti transferred to New York to star in the Broadway production, which was produced by Emanuel Azenberg and directed by Michael Lindsay-Hogg. It opened at the Trafalgar Theatre on 17 April 1979 and ran for 223 performances and 9 previews. Conti, who was making his Broadway debut, was joined by Jean Marsh and Philip Bosco. Conti was nominated for a Drama Desk Award and won the 1979 Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play. Both the play itself and Lindsay-Hogg were nominated as well.\n\nThe play, again directed by Lindsay-Hogg, was revived on Broadway at the Royale Theatre, where it opened on 24 February 1980 after nine previews. A gender reversal found Mary Tyler Moore in the lead role, renamed Claire, and James Naughton as her now-male doctor. Josef Sommer completed the principal cast. The play ran for 96 performances. Moore was nominated for a Drama Desk Award as Outstanding Actress in a Play and won a special 1980 Tony Award for her performance.\n\nThe play was revived in London at the Harold Pinter Theatre from January to April 2005, directed by Peter Hall and starring Kim Cattrall as Claire. Husband and wife Laurence Luckinbill and Lucie Arnaz starred in the national tour of the play. The two rotated playing the patient (Ken/Claire) and doctor.\n\n\"Whose Life Is It Anyway?\" was adapted from Clark's own television film of the same title directed by Richard Everitt starring Ian McShane.\n\nA film adapted by Reginald Rose and directed by John Badham was released in 1981, starring Richard Dreyfuss, John Cassavetes, and Christine Lahti.\n\nAuthor David Benedictus adapted the play into a novel, which was also released in 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "415346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415346", "title": "William Wynn Westcott", "text": "William Wynn Westcott\n\nWilliam Wynn Westcott (17 December 1848 – 30 July 1925) was a coroner, ceremonial magician, theosophist and Freemason born in Leamington, Warwickshire, England. He was a Supreme Magus (chief) of the S.R.I.A and went on to co-found the Golden Dawn.\n\nHe was a doctor of medicine.\n\nIn 1871 he became active in Freemasonry where he became Master of his home Lodge three years later and also the \"Quatuor Coronati\" research lodge (Master 1893–94).\n\nIn 1879 he moved to Hendon. In 1880 he began studying the Kabbalah and joined Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia. In 1882 he met Samuel Liddell Mathers.\n\nWestcott became chief of the SRIA with the death of William Robert Woodman.\n\nWescott co-founded the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn with Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers and William Robert Woodman in 1887, using the motto V.H. Frater Sapere Aude.\n\nAround this time, he was also active in the Theosophical Society, where he founded in 1891 The Adelphi Lodge in London WC.\n\nIn 1896, he abandoned public involvement with the Golden Dawn due to pressure regarding his job as a Crown Coroner, with which it was seen as an unseemly association. He continued to head the S.R.I.A. and later was involved with the Golden Dawn breakaway Stella Matutina.\n\nHe retired as a coroner after 1910, emigrated to South Africa in 1918, and died in Durban in 1925.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25174608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25174608", "title": "Yaakov Teitel", "text": "Yaakov Teitel\n\nYaakov Teitel (, born November 1972) is an American-born Israeli religious nationalist, convicted for killing two people in 2009. Teitel, who had immigrated to Israel in 2000, settling in a West Bank settlement, confessed to planning and committing various acts of terrorism and hate crimes against Palestinians, homosexuals, left-wingers, missionary Christians, and police officers across Israel. Teitel was sentenced to life imprisonment, which he is currently serving.\n\nYaakov Teitel was born in 1972 in Florida, United States, and moved to Norfolk, Virginia, when he was a teenager. His father, Mark, was a retired dentist who had served in the U.S. Navy during the Vietnam War, and his mother, Dianne, was a medical secretary - both of whom became Haredi Jews later in life. Commonly known as Jack, Teitel attended university and received a bachelor's degree in psychology, and in the mid-1990s, he began making regular visits to Israel. He was arrested in August 1997 on suspicion of murdering a Palestinian shepherd, but was released, and the case was eventually closed due to lack of evidence. Teitel subsequently returned to the United States, where he took a computer course with Microsoft, and began working as a computer technician.\n\nIn 1999, Teitel immigrated to Israel and moved to the settlement of Shvut Rachel, becoming an Israeli citizen under the Law of Return in December 2000. The following year, his parents and sister also emigrated to Israel, and settled in Beitar Illit, an Ultra-Orthodox city in the Gush Etzion settlement bloc. In 2002, Teitel met Rivka Pepperman, a British-born dance teacher originally from Broughton Park, Manchester, whose family had moved to Israel in 1981. They married the following year, and had four children. Teitel was summoned by Israel Defense Forces for preliminary checks, but was exempted from conscription due to his advanced age, medical history, and familial state.\n\nTeitel was considered an outcast in the settlement due to his limited proficiency in Hebrew and reclusive behavior. He hardly left his home, and did not regularly participate in services at the local synagogue.\n\nTeitel was arrested in Jerusalem's Har Nof neighborhood on October 7, 2009, while posting flyers praising the 2009 Tel Aviv gay centre shooting. He attempted to throw away a bag he was carrying, but it was retrieved, and was found to contain two handguns. Teitel was then turned over to Shin Bet for interrogation, while special police units raided his home and the homes of his brother-in-law, parents, and mother-in-law. The search of his property revealed a cache of guns, parts used in explosive devices, pellets used to maximize the impact of explosives, binoculars, and flyers containing anti-gay incitement. The explosives were all detonated safely by the police, and a search of his home two days later found a bomb buried in the backyard.\n\nIsraeli police revealed that Teitel, acting alone, confessed to a string of terrorist attacks and attempted attacks. Teitel confessed to having carried out a pipe-bomb attack against Ze'ev Sternhell, as well as the murders of a Palestinian taxi driver and a West Bank shepherd in 1997, a 2006 attempted bombing near the settlement of Eli, three bombings against police targets and a Christian monastery in 2007, and sending a booby-trapped package that injured a teenage boy to the home of a Messianic Jewish family in Ariel. In addition to Teitel's confession, his DNA was found to match DNA retrieved from Sternhell's home after the bombing attack. Teitel also confessed that he had planned to fly a remote-controlled toy plane containing explosives into the Tel Aviv gay pride parade, and that he planned a bombing against a Jerusalem gay bar. He also admitted that he planned to fire an improvised mortar against the Al-Aqsa Mosque, but abandoned the plan over fear of injuring Jewish worshippers on the Temple Mount.\n\nTeitel was also suspected of murdering two police officers in the Jordan Valley, and confessed to the gay centre shooting in Tel Aviv in 2009, though police stated that they were certain he was not involved in either. Following the discoveries, Teitel was held by Shin Bet in special custody for 48 hours, without being allowed to see an attorney or brought before a judge. The Petah Tikva District Court denied appeals from his attorney to meet with him, and subsequently extended both his remand and the special ordnance banning him from meeting his lawyer. All of Teitel's arraignments were held behind closed doors, and a gag order was imposed on the case.\n\nOn 10 November 2009, the Jerusalem District Prosecutor's Office declared that Teitel would be charged for the murder of the two Palestinians, incitement to racism, deploying explosive devices, and sabotage. Teitel's legal defense was provided by \"Honenu\", an organization which provides legal defense for Israelis accused of crimes against Arabs or the Israeli security forces. Honenu founder Shmuel Meidad suggested that Teitel may be mentally unstable, stating that, \"It's my impression that this man is sick, but he's not nearly as sick as the state.\" On 4 May 2010, Jerusalem's district psychiatrist ruled Teitel unfit to stand trial. The evaluation was criticized by Israeli-Arab Knesset members, with Ahmad Tibi stating, \"An Arab who shoots a Jew in Israel is a terrorist, but a Jew who shoots Arabs is insane.\" Following a new psychiatric evaluation, the district court overturned the previous ruling, and declared Teitel fit for trial, on 30 August.\n\nIn February 2012, the Jerusalem District Prosecutor's Office and Teitel's attorneys reached an agreement under which he would confess to two counts of murder. Teitel's attorneys confessed on his behalf, as Teitel himself announced that did not recognize the court's jurisdiction. After the indictment, the defense and prosecution would argue over whether Teitel was aware of his actions and is fit for trial, and the court would deliberate over whether Teitel is accountable for his actions. In January 2013, Teitel was convicted on two counts of murder and two counts of attempted murder, with the court rejecting the defense's arguments that he was legally insane. In April, he was sentenced to two life sentences and 30 years for the murder of two Palestinians, the attempted murder of two others, and other offenses, and ordered to pay mandatory compensation of NIS 650,000 to the families of the victims.\n"}
{"id": "20798370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20798370", "title": "Yuko Munakata", "text": "Yuko Munakata\n\nYuko Munakata is a professor of psychology at the University of Colorado Boulder. She has specialized in developmental cognitive neuroscience, taking a connectionist approach to cognitive development. Her research investigates the processing mechanisms underlying cognitive development, using converging evidence from behavior, computational modeling, and cognitive neuroscience. She also focuses on understanding the prevalence of task-dependent behaviors during the first years of life. Munakata received a B.S. in symbolic systems at Stanford University in 1991 and a Ph.D. in psychology at Carnegie Mellon University in 1996 under James McClelland; and completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1996-1997. She worked at the University of Denver from 1997–2001, and joined the faculty of the University of Colorado Boulder in 2002, but continues to work at DU as an adjunct professor of psychology. Munakata is a member of the Institute of Cognitive Sciences and the Center for Neuroscience at CU.\n\n"}
