{"id": "3651595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3651595", "title": "Caribbean literature", "text": "Caribbean literature\n\nCaribbean literature is the term generally accepted for the literature of the various territories of the Caribbean region. Literature in English specifically from the former British West Indies may be referred to as Anglo-Caribbean or, in historical contexts, West Indian literature, although in modern contexts the latter term is rare.\n\nMost of these territories have become independent nations since the 1960s, though some retain colonial ties to the United Kingdom. They all share, apart from the English language, a number of political, cultural, and social ties which make it useful to consider their literary output in a single category. The more wide-ranging term \"Caribbean literature\" generally refers to the literature of all Caribbean territories regardless of language—whether written in English, Spanish, French, Hindustani, or Dutch, or one of numerous creoles.\n\nAs scholarship expands, there is debate about the correct term to use for literature that comes from the region. Both terms are often used interchangeably despite having different origins and referring to slightly different groups of people. Since so much of Caribbean identity is linked to \"insidious racism\" and \"the justification of slave labor\", it is usual to refer to the author of the piece for their identity preference.\n\nWest Indian is defined as coming from the \"West Indies\", which includes \"the islands of the Caribbean\" and was \"used first [for] indigenous population, and subsequently both [for] settlers of European origin and of people of African origin brought to the area as slaves.\" West Indian can also refer to things that can be \"traced back\" to the West Indies but the creators \"live elsewhere\". West Indian \"was a term coined by colonising European powers.\" Caribbean, on the other hand, is defined as \"of the Caribbean...its people, and their cultures\" only.\n\nFurther issues include language classifications like Creole Caribbean literature and Anglophone Caribbean literature. Different languages also make different references to the texts. While there is no terminology that is obsolete, the issue requires acknowledgement due to it being literature of historically oppressed people.\n\nThe literature of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Curaçao, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Martin, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos and the U.S. Virgin Islands would normally be considered to belong to the wider category of West Indian literature. Some literary scholars might also include Bermuda, though geographically Bermuda is not part of the Caribbean and cultural ties with the region are not very strong.\n\nThe term \"West Indies\" first began to achieve wide currency in the 1950s, when writers such as Samuel Selvon, John Hearne, Edgar Mittelholzer, V. S. Naipaul, and George Lamming began to be published in the United Kingdom. A sense of a single literature developing across the islands was also encouraged in the 1940s by the BBC radio programme \"Caribbean Voices\", which featured stories and poems written by West Indian authors, recorded in London under the direction of producer Henry Swanzy, and broadcast back to the islands. Magazines such as \"Kyk-Over-Al\" in Guyana, \"Bim\" in Barbados, and \"Focus\" in Jamaica, which published work by writers from across the region, also encouraged links and helped build an audience.\n\nMany—perhaps most—West Indian writers have found it necessary to leave their home territories and base themselves in the United Kingdom, the United States, or Canada in order to make a living from their work—in some cases spending the greater parts of their careers away from the territories of their birth. Critics in their adopted territories might argue that, for instance, V. S. Naipaul ought to be considered a British writer instead of a Trinidadian writer, or Jamaica Kincaid and Paule Marshall American writers, but most West Indian readers and critics still consider these writers \"West Indian\".\n\nWest Indian literature ranges over subjects and themes as wide as those of any other \"national\" literature, but in general many West Indian writers share a special concern with questions of identity, ethnicity, and language that rise out of the Caribbean historical experience.\nOne unique and pervasive characteristic of Caribbean literature is the use of \"dialect\" forms of the national language, often termed creole. The various local variations in the language adopted from the colonial powers such as Britain, Spain, Portugal, France and the Netherlands, have been modified over the years within each country and each has developed a blend that is unique to their country. Many Caribbean authors in their writing switch liberally between the local variation—now commonly termed nation language—and the standard form of the language.\nTwo West Indian writers have won the Nobel Prize for Literature: Derek Walcott (1992), born in St. Lucia, resident mostly in Trinidad during the 1960s and '70s, and partly in the United States since then; and V. S. Naipaul, born in Trinidad and resident in the United Kingdom since the 1950. (Saint-John Perse, who won the Nobel Prize in 1960, was born in the French territory of Guadeloupe.)\n\nOther notable names in (anglophone) Caribbean literature have included Earl Lovelace, Austin Clarke, Claude McKay, Orlando Patterson, Andrew Salkey, Edward Kamau Brathwaite (who was born in Barbados and has lived in Ghana and Jamaica), Linton Kwesi Johnson, Velma Pollard and Michelle Cliff, to name only a few. In more recent times, a number of literary voices have emerged from the Caribbean as well as the Caribbean diaspora, including Kittitian Caryl Phillips (who has lived in the UK since one month of age); Edwidge Danticat, a Haitian immigrant to the United States; Anthony Kellman from Barbados, who divides his time between Barbados and the United States; Andrea Levy of the United Kingdom; Jamaicans Alecia McKenzie, who has lived in Belgium, Singapore and France, and Colin Channer and Marlon James, the author of the Man Booker Prize-winning novel \"A Brief History of Seven Killings\" (2014) (as well as \"John Crow's Devil\", \"The Book of Night Women\", the unpublished screenplay \"Dead Men\", and the short story \"Under Cover of Darkness\"), Antiguan Marie-Elena John, and Lasana M. Sekou from St. Maarten/St. Martin.\n\nIndentureship and migration were key factors in shaping Caribbean literature. The migration of Caribbean workers towards the Panama Canal is often used as a foundation by many authors. For example, Maryse Condé’s novel \"Tree of Life\" (1992) discusses the involvement of family ties and working life within the Panama Canal. The idea of influence is further exemplified in Ramabai Espinet’s novel \"The Swinging Bridge\", which explores the idea of Indian indentureship and the direct silencing of women.\n\nThe number of influences are not limited to those stated above, rather, the works within this canon often stem from independence, gender roles, and literary movements.\n\nThere have been a number of collected works that focus on women's roles in the Caribbean. A dissertation entitled \"Mair\"discusses the lives of women in Jamaica. A lot of similar work focuses on women and typically treat sexuality as heteronormative. In this specific style of work, analytical approaches to queer theory have not yet appeared or been explored.\n\nIncluded in the topic of how colonialism effected Caribbean literature is how writers use agricultural symbolism in to represent the need or desire to escape colonial rule. The connection between agriculture and the need to survive represents a closeness with the Earth itself. Native fruits and vegetables were used to speak around the colonized discourse; a way of speaking out in a sort of code. Derek Walcott is an author who utilizes this type of speak in his poetry.\n\nMany parts of the Caribbean have begun in recent years to host literary festivals, including in Anguilla, the Anguilla Lit Fest, in Trinidad and Tobago the NGC Bocas Lit Fest, in Jamaica the Calabash International Literary Festival, in Saint Martin/Sint Maarten the St. Martin Book Fair, in Barbados Bim Literary Festival, in Dominica the Nature Island Literary Festival and Book Fair, Alliouagana Festival of the word in Montserrat, and the Antigua and Barbuda Literary Festival.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOpal Palmer Adisa\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Alscess Lewis-Brown\n\nInterviewing the Caribbean - letters and the visual arts {Jamaica}\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1063807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1063807", "title": "Chinoiserie", "text": "Chinoiserie\n\nChinoiserie (, ; loanword from French \"chinoiserie\", from \"chinois\", \"Chinese\") is the European interpretation and imitation of Chinese and East Asian artistic traditions, especially in the decorative arts, garden design, architecture, literature, theatre, and music. The aesthetic of Chinoiserie has been expressed in different ways depending on the region. Its acknowledgement derives from the current of Orientalism, which studied Far East cultures from a historical, philological, anthropological, philosophical and religious point of view. First appearing in the 17th century, this trend was popularized in the 18th century due to the rise in trade with China and East Asia. \n\nAs a style, chinoiserie is related to the Rococo style. Both styles are characterized by exuberant decoration, asymmetry, a focus on materials, and stylized nature and subject matter that focuses on leisure and pleasure. Chinoiserie focuses on subjects that were thought by colonial-era Europeans to be typical of Chinese culture.\n\nChinoiserie entered European art and decoration in the mid-to-late 17th century; the work of Athanasius Kircher influenced the study of orientalism. The popularity of chinoiserie peaked around the middle of the 18th century when it was associated with the rococo style and with works by François Boucher, Thomas Chippendale, and Jean-Baptist Pillement. It was also popularized by the influx of Chinese and Indian goods brought annually to Europe aboard English, Dutch, French, and Swedish East India Companies.Though chinoiserie never fully went out of fashion, it declined in Europe by the 1760s when the neoclassical style gained popularity, though remained popular in the newly formed United States through the early 19th century. There was a revival of popularity for chinoiserie in Europe and the United States from the mid-19th century through the 1920s, and today in elite interior design and fashion.\n\nThough usually understood as a European style, chinoiserie was a global phenomenon. Local versions of chinoiserie were developed in India, Japan, Persia, and particularly Latin America. Through the Manila Galleon Trade, Spanish traders brought large amounts of Chinese porcelain, lacquer, textiles, and spices from Chinese merchants based in Manila to New Spanish markets in Acapulco, Panama, and Lima. Those products then inspired local artists and artisans such as ceramicists making Talavera pottery at Puebla de Los Angeles.\n\nThere were many reasons why chinoiserie gained such popularity in Europe in the 18th century. Europeans had a fascination with the exotic East due to their increased, but still restricted, access to new cultures through expanded trade with East Asia, especially China. The limited number of European first-hand experiences of East Asia and their restricted circulation created a level of mystification and misinformation that contributed to the mystification of East Asian cultures. The 'China' indicated in the term 'Chinoiserie' represented in European people's mind a wider region of the globe that could embrace China itself, but also Japan, Korea, South-East Asia, India or even Persia. In art, the style of the Orient was considered a source of inspiration; the atmosphere rich in images and the harmonic designs of the oriental style reflected the picture of an ideal world, from which to draw ideas in order to reshape one own's culture. For this reason the style of Chinoiserie is to be regarded as an important result of the exchange between the West and the East. During the 19th century, and especially in its latter period, the style of Chinoiserie was assimilated under the generic definition of exoticism. Even though the root of the word 'Chinoiserie' is 'Chine' (China), the Europeans of the 17th and 18th centuries didn't have a clear conceptualization of how China was in reality. Often terms like 'Orient', 'Far East' or 'China' were all equally used to signify the region of Eastern Asia that had proper Chinese culture as a major representative, but the meaning of the term could change according to different contexts. Sir William Chambers for example, in his oeuvre A Dissertation on Oriental Gardening of 1772, generically addresses China as the 'Orient'. In the financial records of Louis XIV during the 17th and 18th centuries were already registered expressions like 'façon de la Chine', Chinese manner, or 'à la chinoise', made in the Chinese way. In the 19th century the term 'Chinoiserie' appeared for the first time in French literature. In the novel \"L'Interdiction\" published in 1836, Honoré de Balzac used Chinoiserie to refer to the craftworks made in the Chinese style. From this moment on the term gained momentum and started being used more frequently to mean objects produced in the Chinese style but sometimes also to indicate graceful objects of small dimension or of scarce account. In 1878 'Chinoiserie' entered formally in the .\n\nAfter the spread of Marco Polo's narrations, the knowledge of China held by the Europeans continued to derive essentially from reports made by merchants and diplomatic envoys. Dating from the latter half of the 17th century a relevant role in this exchange of information was then taken up by the Jesuits, whose continual gathering of missionary intelligence and language transcription gave the European public a new deeper insight of the Chinese empire and its culture.\n\nWhile Europeans frequently held inaccurate ideas about East Asia, this did not necessarily preclude their fascination and respect. In particular, the Chinese who had \"exquisitely finished art... [and] whose court ceremonial was even more elaborate than that of Versailles\" were viewed as highly civilized. According to Voltaire in his \"Art de la Chine\", \"The fact remains that four thousand years ago, when we did not know how to read, they [the Chinese] knew everything essentially useful of which we boast today.\" In other words, somewhere, on the other side of the world, there existed a culture so rich that it rivaled the civilizations of Rome and Greece. Chinoiserie created a juxtaposition between something new and exotic for Europeans while at the same time reflecting the values of the 4,000 year old culture from which these objects came.\n\nChinoiserie was not universally popular. Some critics saw the style as \"…a retreat from reason and taste and a descent into a morally ambiguous world based on hedonism, sensation and values perceived to be feminine.\" It was viewed as lacking the logic and reason upon which Antique art had been founded. Architect and author Robert Morris claimed that it \"…consisted of mere whims and chimera, without rules or order, it requires no fertility of genius to put into execution.\" Those with a more archaeological view of the East, considered the chinoiserie style, with its distortions and whimsical approach, to be a mockery of the actual Chinese art and architecture. Finally, still others believed that an interest in chinoiserie indicated a pervading \"cultural confusion\" in European society.\n\nChinoiserie persisted into the 19th and 20th centuries but declined in popularity. There was a notable loss of interest in Chinese-inspired décor after the death in 1830 of King George IV, a great proponent of the style. The First Opium War of 1839–1842 between Britain and China disrupted trade and caused a further decline of interest in the Oriental. China closed its doors to exports and imports and for many people chinoiserie became a fashion of the past.\n\nAs British-Chinese relations stabilized towards the end of the 19th century, there was a revival of interest in chinoiserie. Prince Albert, for example, reallocated many chinoiserie works from George IV's Royal Pavilion at Brighton to the more accessible Buckingham Palace. Chinoiserie served to remind Britain of its former colonial glory that was rapidly fading with the modern era.\n\nFrom the Renaissance to the 18th century Western designers attempted to imitate the technical sophistication of Chinese export porcelain (and for that matter Japanese export porcelain - Europeans were generally vague as the origin of \"oriental\" imports), with only partial success. One of the earliest successful attempts, for instance, was the Medici porcelain manufactured in Florence during the late-16th century, as the Casino of San Marco remained open from 1575–1587. Despite never being commercial in nature, the next major attempt to replicate Chinese porcelain was the soft-paste manufactory at Rouen in 1673, with Edme Poterat, widely reputed as creator of the French soft-paste pottery tradition, opening his own factory in 1647. Efforts were eventually made to imitate hard-paste porcelain, which were held in high regard. As such, the direct imitation of Chinese designs in faience began in the late 17th century, was carried into European porcelain production, most naturally in tea wares, and peaked in the wave of rococo chinoiserie (c. 1740–1770).\n\nEarliest hints of chinoiserie appear in the early 17th century, in the arts of the nations with active East India Companies, Holland and England, then by the mid-17th century, in Portugal as well. Tin-glazed pottery (see \"delftware\") made at Delft and other Dutch towns adopted genuine blue-and-white Ming decoration from the early 17th century. After a book by Johan Nieuhof was published the 150 pictures encouraged chinoiserie, and became especially popular in the 18th century. Early ceramic wares in Meissen porcelain and other factories naturally imitated Chinese designs, though the shapes for \"useful wares\", table and tea wares, typically remained Western, often based on shapes in silver. Decorative wares such as vases followed Chinese shapes.\n\nThe ideas of the decorative and pictorial arts of the East permeated the European and American arts and craft scene. For example, in the United States, \"by the mid-18th century, Charleston had imported an impressive array of Asian export luxury goods [such as]...paintings.\" The aspects of Chinese painting that were integrated into European and American visual arts include asymmetrical compositions, lighthearted subject matter and a general sense of capriciousness.\n\nWilliam Alexander (1767–1816), a British painter, illustrator and engraver who traveled to the East Asia and China in the 18th century, was directly influenced by the culture and landscape he saw in the East. He presented an idealized, romanticized depiction of Chinese culture, but he was influenced by \"pre-established visual signs.\" While the Chinoiserie landscapes that Alexander depicted accurately reflected the landscape of China, \"paradoxically, it is this imitation and repetition of the iconic signs of China that negate the very possibility of authenticity, and render them into stereotypes.\" The depiction of China and East Asia in European and American painting was dependent on the understanding of the East by Western preconceptions, rather than representations of Eastern culture as it actually was.\n\nVarious European monarchs, such as Louis XV of France, gave special favor to chinoiserie, as it blended well with the rococo style. Entire rooms, such as those at Château de Chantilly, were painted with chinoiserie compositions, and artists such as Antoine Watteau and others brought expert craftsmanship to the style. Central European palaces like the Castle of Wörlitz or the Castle of Pillnitz all include rooms decorated with Chinese features, while in the palace of Sanssouci at Potsdam features a Dragon House (Das Drachenhaus) and the Chinese House (Das Chinesische Haus). Pleasure pavilions in \"Chinese taste\" appeared in the formal parterres of late Baroque and Rococo German and Russian palaces, and in tile panels at Aranjuez near Madrid. Chinese Villages were built in the mountainous park of Wilhelmshöhe near Kassel, Germany; in Drottningholm, Sweden and Tsarskoe Selo, Russia. Thomas Chippendale's mahogany tea tables and china cabinets, especially, were embellished with fretwork glazing and railings, \"c.\" 1753–70, but sober \"homages\" to early Qing scholars' furnishings were also naturalized, as the \"tang\" evolved into a mid-Georgian side table and squared slat-back armchairs suited English gentlemen as well as Chinese scholars. Not every adaptation of Chinese design principles falls within mainstream chinoiserie. Chinoiserie media included \"japanned\" ware imitations of lacquer and painted tin (tôle) ware that imitated japanning, early painted wallpapers in sheets, after engravings by Jean-Baptiste Pillement, and ceramic figurines and table ornaments.\n\nIn the 17th and 18th centuries Europeans began to manufacture furniture that imitated Chinese lacquer furniture. It was frequently decorated with ebony and ivory or Chinese motifs such as pagodas. Thomas Chippendale helped to popularize the production of Chinoiserie furniture with the publication of his design book \"The Gentleman and Cabinet-maker's Director: Being a large Collection of the Most Elegant and Useful Designs of Household Furniture, In the Most Fashionable Taste.\" His designs provided a guide for intricate chinoiserie furniture and its decoration. His chairs and cabinets were often decorated with scenes of colorful birds, flowers, or images of exotic imaginary places. The compositions of this decoration were often asymmetrical.\n\nThe increased use of wallpaper in European homes in the 18th century also reflects the general fascination with Chinoiserie motifs. With the rise of the villa and a growing taste for sunlit interiors, the popularity of wallpaper grew. John Cornforth notes that previously the \"light-absorbing textures of tapestry, velvet, and damask\" were preferred, but now the general interest was in light-reflecting decoration. The demand for wallpaper created by Chinese artists began first with European aristocrats between 1740 and 1790. The luxurious wallpaper available to them would have been unique, handmade, and expensive. Later wallpaper with chinoiserie motifs became accessible to the middle class when it could be printed and thus produced in a range of grades and prices.\n\nThe patterns on Chinoiserie wallpaper are similar to the pagodas, floral designs, and exotic imaginary scenes found on chinoiserie furniture and porcelain. Like chinoiserie furniture and other decorative art forms, chinoiserie wallpaper was typically placed in bedrooms, closets, and other private rooms of a house. The patterns on wallpaper were expected to complement the decorative objects and furniture in a room, creating a complementary backdrop.\n\nEuropean understanding of Chinese and East Asian garden design is exemplified by the use of the word \"Sharawadgi\", understood as beauty, without order that takes the form of an aesthetically pleasing irregularity in landscape design. The word traveled together with imported lacquer ware from Japan where \"shara'aji\" was an idiom in appraisal of design in decorative arts. Sir William Temple (1628–1699), referring to such artwork, introduces the term sharawadgi in his essay \"Upon the Gardens of Epicurus\" written in 1685 and published in 1690. Under Temple's influence European gardeners and landscape designers used the concept of sharawadgi to create gardens that were believed to reflect the asymmetry and naturalism present in the gardens of the East.\n\nThese gardens often contain various fragrant plants, flowers and trees, decorative rocks, ponds or lake with fish, and twisting pathways. They are frequently enclosed by a wall. Architectural features placed in these gardens often include pagodas, ceremonial halls used for celebrations or holidays, pavilions with flowers and seasonal elements.\n\nLandscapes such as London's Kew Gardens show distinct Chinese influence in architecture. A monumental 163-foot pagoda in the center of the garden designed and built by William Chambers exhibits strong English architectural elements, resulting in a product of combined cultures (Bald, 290). A replica of it was built in Munich's Englischer Garten, while the Chinese Garden of Oranienbaum include another pagoda and also a Chinese teahouse. Though the rise of a more serious approach in Neoclassicism from the 1770s onward tended to replace Oriental inspired designs, at the height of Regency \"Grecian\" furnishings, the Prince Regent came down with a case of Brighton Pavilion, and Chamberlain's Worcester china manufactory imitated \"Imari\" wares. While classical styles reigned in the parade rooms, upscale houses, from Badminton House (where the \"Chinese Bedroom\" was furnished by William and John Linnell, ca 1754) and Nostell Priory to Casa Loma in Toronto, sometimes featured an entire guest room decorated in the chinoiserie style, complete with Chinese-styled bed, phoenix-themed wallpaper, and china. Later exoticisms added imaginary Turkish themes, where a \"diwan\" became a sofa.\n\nOne of the things that contributed to the popularity of chinoiserie was the 18th-century vogue for tea drinking. The feminine and domestic culture of drinking tea required an appropriate \"chinoiserie mise en scène\". According to Beevers, \"Tea drinking was a fundamental part of polite society; much of the interest in both Chinese export wares and chinoiserie rose from the desire to create appropriate settings for the ritual of tea drinking.\" After 1750, England was importing 10,000,000 pounds of tea annually, demonstrating how widespread this practice was. The taste for chinoiserie porcelain, both export wares and European imitations, and tea drinking was more associated with women than men. A number of aristocratic and socially important women were famous collectors of chinoiserie porcelain, among them Queen Mary, Queen Anne, Henrietta Howard, and the Duchess of Queensbury, all socially important women. This is significant because their homes served as examples of good taste and sociability. A single historical incident in which there was a \"keen competition between Margaret, 2nd Duchess of Portland, and Elizabeth, Countess of Ilchester, for a Japanese blue and white plate,\" shows how wealthy female consumers asserted their purchasing power and their need to play a role in creating the prevailing vogue.\n\nThe term is also used in literary criticism to describe a mannered \"Chinese-esque\" style of writing, such as that employed by Ernest Bramah in his Kai Lung stories, Barry Hughart in his \"Master Li & Number Ten Ox\" novels and Stephen Marley in his Chia Black Dragon series.\n\nThe term is also used in the fashion industry to describe \"designs in textiles, fashion, and the decorative arts that derive from Chinese styles\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8284946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8284946", "title": "Colored music notation", "text": "Colored music notation\n\nColored music notation is a technique used to facilitate enhanced learning in young music students by adding visual color to written musical notation. It is based upon the concept that color can affect the observer in various ways, and combines this with standard learning of basic notation.\n\nViewing color has been widely shown to change an individual's emotional state and stimulate neurons. The Lüscher color test observes from experiments that when individuals are required to contemplate pure red for varying lengths of time, [the experiments] have shown that this color decidedly has a stimulating effect on the nervous system; blood pressure increases, and respiration rate and heart rate both increase. Pure blue, on the other hand, has the reverse effect; observers experience a decline in blood pressure, heart rate, and breathing. Given these findings, it has been suggested that the influence of colored musical notation would be similar.\n\nIn music education, color is typically used in method books to highlight new material. Stimuli received through several senses excite more neurons in several localized areas of the cortex, thereby reinforcing the learning process and improving retention. This information has been proven by other researchers; Chute (1978) reported that \"elementary students who viewed a colored version of an instructional film scored significantly higher on both immediate and delayed tests than did students who viewed a monochrome version\".\n\nA researcher in this field, George L. Rogers is the Director of Music Education at Westfield State College. He is also the author of 25 articles in publications that include the Music Educators Journal, The Instrumentalist, and the Journal of Research in Music Education. In 1991, George L. Rogers did a study that researched the effect of color-coded notation on music achievement of elementary instrumental students. Rogers states that the color-coded notation used in this study was not meant to replace the present notational system; rather, it was intended as a pedagogical aid for beginners.\n\nThe subjects used for this study were 92 fifth- and sixth-grade beginner wind instrument players who attended two different schools. The experimental group used color-coded method books and supplementary materials in which each different pitch was highlighted with a different color using felt-tip markers. The control group used identical materials, but with the notation uncolored. The students were then tested in three different parts: \n\nThe results of this study are as follows: Subjects in the experimental and control groups performed much the same on the task of playing music from memory. For the task of sight-reading, the experimental group scored higher than did the control group. However, the control group (without color-coded notation) scored higher when sight-reading uncolored notation. In fact, the students who learned using color-coded notation scored significantly lower when sight-reading plain notation.\n\nA possible theory regarding these results is that the students in the experimental group memorized the colors instead of the notation. The third task of note naming seemed to be less of a challenge for the control group who learned to read notation than the experimental group who learned which color is which fingering on their instrument. In regards to which type of notation was easier to read, in the experimental group all but three found the color-coded notation easier to play, in the control group 18 out of the 46 chose color-coded notation also easier to read. This is a deviation from standard findings, as most students prefer the method they were first introduced to.\n\nIn 1996, Rogers did another study researching the effect of colored rhythmic notation on the music-reading skills of elementary students. Rogers states that the purpose of studying the effect of colored rhythmic notation was to determine if instruction involving the addition of color to standard rhythmic notation would affect the performance of elementary music students on the task of clapping and vocalizing rhythmic exercises on sight. The subjects of this study were 134 first- and second-grade general music students. The two particular schools involved in the experiment were chosen because most students attending were dealing with notation intensively for the first time.\n\nThe experimental subjects participated in vocalizing and clapping rhythms notated with colored chalk on the chalkboard as a regular part of general music classes. Control subjects read, vocalized and clapped identical rhythms noted in white chalk. In the experimental group, contrasting colors were used to notate the different rhythmic values. The colors used were arbitrary and changed from week to week (so no one color was identified with a particular note or rest).\n\nThe students used the Cheve rhythm syllables, consisting of \"ta\"’s for quarter notes and \"ti-ti\"’s for eighth notes. The students were tested by sight-reading two exercises from a chalkboard and clapping and vocalizing the rhythmic notation. One test was in colored rhythmic notation and the other was uncolored. The students performed the two exercises involving similar rhythms, with colored notation being applied randomly to either the first or second task.\nThe results of this study are as follows: Students in both experimental and control groups scored well, with a combined mean for all subjects of 10.66 out of 12 points. Students who experienced colored rhythmic notation during the treatment period scored somewhat higher as a group on both tasks.\n\nStudents who need academic assistance are often students who have learning disorders. Kent Gerlach clarifies some of the symptoms of learning disorders, and establishes that certain difficulties arise, particularly with the following:\n\n\nRogers found that during the 1991 study on the effects of color-coded notation on music achievement of elementary instrumental students that:\n\nThe high level of dependence on color-coding among learning disabled and mentally handicapped students may reflect a situation similar to that reported by Chute in which students of different ability levels were affected differently by the presence or absence of color in instructional materials. Not only did the learning-disabled and mentally handicapped students in the experimental group score much higher on the tasks that involved color-coded notation than on the uncolored notation, but it also appeared that the color-coded notation enabled them to score as high as or higher than the other students\"\n\nHe suggests that the scores of students identified as receiving extra academic assistance were examined separately and were found to be lower than the overall student sample, but were otherwise similar to the means for all students.\n\nAs a result of these experiments, colored notation does seem to help early music students to learn notation and rhythms more than students with uncolored notation. In Rogers' 1991 study of color-coded notation, it is clear that students relied more heavily on the colors that were assigned to the notation, rather than on learning the notation. However, as the students were able to easily tell the different notes apart, perhaps by using different colors that are not assigned to a note, the experimental students would have been able to read not only the colored notation better but also the uncolored notation. Rogers did change the second study, in 1996, making the colors arbitrary. While the obvious disadvantage of memorization from the 1991 study exists, the overall findings of the study were that colored musical notation is an inexpensive and effective tool when used with young music students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22311897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22311897", "title": "Conservation and restoration of stained glass", "text": "Conservation and restoration of stained glass\n\nStained glass conservation refers to the protection and preservation of historic stained glass for present and future generations. It involves any and all actions devoted to the prevention, mitigation, or reversal of the processes of deterioration that affect such glass works and subsequently inhibit individuals' ability to access and appreciate them, as part of the world's collective cultural heritage. It functions as a part of the larger practices of cultural heritage conservation (conservation-restoration) and architectural conservation.\n\nStained glass is lauded as one of the most beautiful and compelling forms of architectural decoration; however, it is also one of the most vulnerable (Brown et al. 2002, xi). The fabric of the glass itself, the paint or stain used to decorate it, and even the metal framework used to hold the design together are all at risk for deterioration, and will likely require conservation work to ensure their long-term survival. Historic glazing is subject to damage caused by continued exposure to pollution and the elements, on top of that resulting from inherent problems, such as the innate fragility of glass and any potential chemical instability of the materials involved (Brown et al. 2002, xi; Rauch 2004). Deterioration does not always occur gradually and may also occur suddenly and catastrophically, as the result of natural disasters (e.g. fire, extreme weather), accidents (e.g. improper handling, removal or treatment), or malicious damage (e.g. vandalism) (Brown et al. 2002, xi; Vogel et al. 2007).\n\nOwing to the delicate nature of the materials, and the incalculable historic and aesthetic value of stained glass work, any and all treatments should be planned and performed by professional conservators and craftspeople, who have been specially trained in the peculiarities of the medium. While preservation is the shared responsibility of all involved, including visitors, caretakers, and other stakeholders, it is imperative that professionals are consulted to ensure the continued integrity of the physical materials and their associated significance. For this reason, all projects should begin with a conservation plan that incorporates research in such topics as the history of the windows or building, the materials involved, and past alterations, as a key element of all conservation decisions. The type of conservation treatment employed should reflect this research, as well as the needs of the building as a whole, and should \"always\" be documented for reference in the future (CVMA 2004).\n\nFor information on the creation, construction, and history of stained glass windows see Stained glass.\n\nThe primary aim of conservation is to slow the rate of deterioration, caused by various factors, to the point where the loss of significance, such as historic information and/or aesthetic value can be kept to a minimum (Pye 2001, Ch. 5). However, in the case of stained glass, these efforts are complicated by the nature of the medium itself. This is because a stained glass window, is a 'complex object' in that it is made from more than one component material, each with its own inherent risks and conservation needs (Pye 2001, 80). In addition to the most obvious component, glass, all windows will typically involve some sort paint or stain as decoration, metal strips, or 'cames' used to join the pieces of glass together, waterproofing materials, and fixing systems or frameworks used for additional support (Brown et al. 2002; Vogel et al. 2007). The condition of each component is important for the overall preservation of the window, as deterioration within one material can affect the others with varying degrees of severity.\n\nThe vast majority of stained glass was originally created to function as part of the building envelope, separating the interior of the structure from exterior environmental conditions. As a result, most historic glazing that has been left in situ is subjected to a constant onslaught of harmful conditions including (but not limited to): UV light from sunlight, extreme weather conditions, indoor and outdoor man-made pollution, and biological damage caused by pests such as pigeons, bats, and various micro-organisms (Rauch 2004, 3). As a result, panels often become encrusted with thick layers of dirt that eventually become quite firmly affixed, and can even begin to intermingle with the underlying, corroded layers of paint (Rauch 2004, 3). Environmental influences also play a role in the continuing deterioration of metal cames and frameworks, which can cause significant structural damage. In addition to these environmental stressors, further deterioration can also result from the myriad of other factors that influence the materials out of which the window is constructed, such as vibration from building use and the remains of previous treatments and repairs that have since deteriorated and increased the corrosion processes of other materials (Rauch 2004, 3).\n\nAlthough glass as a material is known for its chemical stability resistance to natural deterioration, impurities and variations in glass composition can cause considerable chemical instability that may further destructive processes (Vogel et al. 2007, 7). Glass is also susceptible to atmospheric pollution, and high levels of humidity or moisture over long periods of time, both of which can speed up the corrosion rate of chemically unstable glass. Over time, corrosion, marked by pitting or pocking of the glass, can deepen and spread until the surface layer itself breaks apart, uncovering the vulnerable, damaged core, until it becomes opaque (Rauch 2004, 3). This opacification occurs as water seeps through the subsequent cracks, causing the formation of opaque syngenite and gypsum crystals that block light from filtering through the previously translucent glass (Rauch 2004, 3). As these crystals continue to grow, they pose an even greater danger to the glass, eventually breaking through the surface and dislodging the delicate paint layer, or even causing cracks (Rauch 2004, 4). Glass plates can also darken or cloud as the result of the oxidisation of certain metals, such as manganese, which was a common addition to late medieval glass (Rauch 2004, 4).\n\nAs previously mentioned, the paint/stain layer may suffer as the result of deterioration within the fabric of the glass itself; however, this fragile layer is at risk for other types of damage as well. Painted surfaces that would have been applied to glass cold and fired on, are especially vulnerable to damage from condensation or weathering, if they were fired improperly during the production process (Vogel 2007, 7). This is often the case with the fading or disappearance of fine detail, such as faces, in figural stained glass art (fig. 2). Over time, enamels can begin to flake off of glass panels, and certain types or colours of stains can discolour with continued UV exposure, all of which significantly alters the aesthetic impact of the work as a whole (Brown et al. 2002, 18–19; Vogel et al. 2007, 7).\n\nThe breakdown of the skeletal structure that holds the glass in place, such as damage to tracery and the corrosion of metal cames and fixing systems, often poses the greatest, imminent risk to stained glass work (Vogel et al. 2007, 7). Although stone elements are not prone to excessive change due to environmental conditions, this is not the case with metals, which are much more likely to deteriorate from prolonged exposure to the elements. For example, the cames that make up the matrix of a stained glass window, for which lead and zinc were most commonly used, undergo quite a bit of thermal expansion and contraction, eventually resulting in metal fatigue, which in turn weakens the joints between the plates, causing whole panels to deform or simply fall apart (Vogel et al. 2007, 8). Additionally, metal matrixes and frames may weaken with stress, such as that which has occurred at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-upon-Avon, UK, where years of wind buffeting the leaded clerestory windows has endangered the structural integrity of not only the glazing, but also, the upper portion of building itself (fig. 3) (Friends of Shakespeare's Church 2009).\n\nIn many ways, proper conservation is as much about research and documentation as it is about 'hands-on' conservation treatments and restoration (Sloan 1993, 27). The conservator must be familiar with not only the general materials with which he or she is working, but also the details specific to the project at hand, in order to understand and address the needs of a particular window or building. Using this knowledge, conservators can develop a conservation plan that can be used throughout the project, to ensure that all decisions are made with the aims of the project and the needs of the object in mind (CVMA 2004).\n\nIn J. Sloan's discussion of stained glass conservation in the United States, the author gives the following list of ethical and philosophical criteria to be applied to the conservation of stained glass (Sloan 1993, 13):\n\nWhile this list is not exhaustive, it does illustrate the basic foundations upon which responsible conservation decisions should be made. Of utmost importance in this list are the fundamental ideas of minimal intervention and reversibility of treatment, both of which are necessary to ensure that the overall integrity of the windows, as historic and artistically valuable objects, is not compromised.\n\nOwing to the incredible amount of chemical and methodological variability to be found when dealing with stained glass, research into the general production habits of pertinent regions or eras may provide clues that can help conservators understand the overall significance of the piece, anticipate what to expect from the materials, and determine how to proceed (Sloan 1993, 28; Vogel 2007, 5). For example, a conservator working on a set of windows in the United States, will want to ascertain whether the glass was produced before, during, or after the mid-19th century, as changes to general glass composition were made during this time that could influence the types of impurities—and subsequently, some of the deterioration—to be expected (Vogel et al. 2007, 7). This research phase should also include a full condition report on the current condition of the stained glass that includes a record of any and all evidence of past intervention or repair (CVMA 2004).\n\nDecisions should be made using the information gathered during research, and implemented by experienced conservators. Caretakers and project managers should be responsible for screening conservators/studios effectively, while the conservators themselves are responsible for advocating on behalf of the stained glass during any negotiations. As much as possible, benefit to the historic glazing should come before all other considerations (Vogel et al. 2007, 1). At all stages, steps should be taken to ensure that the actions taken are in keeping with the aims of the conservation plan.\n\nProper documentation plays an extremely important role throughout this entire process and should be considered obligatory. All aspects of this process including preliminary research, condition surveys, conservation plans, and all the methods and materials used throughout treatment should be duly recorded, and the documents be preserved and made accessible in the long-term for future reference (CVMA 2004).\n\nIn general it is best to keep interventive treatments at a minimum: minor signs of age are an integral part of the character of the structure and its history (Pye 2001, 96; Vogel et al. 2007, 9). However, more serious damage that either detracts from the aesthetic or practical functions of the glass, or indicates active deterioration may require more extensive treatment.\n\nCareful cleaning of stained glass can be a very effective means of improving its overall condition, because its appearance and function are so heavily dependent on its ability to transmit light. Unfortunately, owing to the fragility of corroded glass, nearly all cleaning treatments can cause changes in the surface of the glass that can expedite corrosion rates, or damage delicate paint layers (Romich et al. 2000). Thus, cleaning efforts should not necessarily be concerned with the complete removal of all encrustrations, but rather the careful thinning of these layers to a point where light can be transmitted through the glass at an acceptable level (Rauch 2004, 5). The simplest cleaning can be performed using carefully applied deionised water, although other mechanical or chemical means are often necessary, and must always be done slowly, in a controlled and focused manner (Rauch 2004, 5–6; Vogel et al. 2007, 9–10). Scalpels or a micro-jet process* can be used to gradually, mechanically thin out these encrustations layer by layer, in the lab. Conversely, poultices or gel pads steeped in a non-ionic detergent or EDTA can be applied to the surface of the glass for long periods of time for “deep, focused cleaning” (Rauch 2004, 6). With any of these methods, care must be taken to ensure the stability of painted layers, before treatment can take place. In the event that these layers appear particularly friable, it is necessary to clean the glass delicately with cotton swabs, and in more extreme cases, manually affix the original paint lines to the surface, under a microscope, by applying small tiny drops of resin at specific points (Rauch 2004, 6; Vogel et al. 2007, 10). Care should be taken not to remove any later over-painting without due consideration, as such layers may have historic value, in their own right (Rauch 2004, 7).\n\nWithin conservation, repairs are meant to last, but should also be as reversible as possible, in keeping with the general ethical guidelines of modern conservation practice (Sloane 1993, 13). In the context of stained glass, repairs can involve treatment of the glass itself, treatment of missing areas, or structural consolidation of the matrix or surrounding architectural fabric.\n\nBroken glass is typically repaired in one of three ways: copper foiling (thin copper tape that is applied to both sides of the break and then soldered); epoxy edge-gluing; and silicone edge-gluing. Each of these has its own inherent benefits and problems. For instance, copper foiling produces a strong, reversible, attractive repair, but is unsuitable for use with unstable glass because of the heat involved in the application process. Epoxy edge-gluing on the other hand is strong and nearly invisible, but deteriorates in direct sunlight, while silicone edge-gluing dries clear and is easily reversible, but unfortunately refracts light differently from glass, making such repairs more readily apparent (Vogel et al. 2007, 12).\n\nMissing areas can be filled or replaced but should be done so with caution. All additions must be marked as such, and documented. Ultimately, “it is nearly always better to use an imperfect original piece of glass than to replace it” (Vogel et al. 2007, 12). Modern replacement of glass with “exact” replicas is virtually impossible, and goes against conservation philosophy by potentially clouding viewers' perception of the original. Instead it is preferable to use similarly coloured, but clearly differentiated glass in order to preserve the aesthetic effect of the stained glass without sacrificing the integrity of the original (Rauch 2004, 7; Vogel et al. 2007, 11).\n\nStructurally speaking it is most important to keep the frame intact and in good condition, to ensure the overall safety of the window (Vogel et al. 2007, 10). That being said, the original materials that make up this matrix are also integral aspects of the historic value and artistic design of the panel and should be preserved. Steps should always be taken to ensure that panels retain their current matrix whenever possible, rather than opting for replacement (CVMA 2004).\n\nProtective glazing is one of the few ways conservators can attempt to preventively conserve stained glass in situ. While this practice can offer many benefits, as with most other treatments, it is not without drawbacks. Ideally, the installation of protective glazing can “relieve the stained glass of its function as a weather shield […], protect it against mechanical and atmospheric damage, and […] prevent condensation on the surface of the stained glass,” thus minimising the need for interventive conservation (CVMA 2004). Unfortunately, in practice this is not always the case, and it is well known that unsuitable, or improperly ventilated protective glazing can actually create an overly hot or humid microclimate around the historic glass that increases the rate of deterioration (Vogel et al. 2007, 13). Alternatively, protective screens or grills can be installed on the exterior of windows to prevent mechanical damage like vandalism, however this can have a significant, negative impact on the aesthetic value of the windows from both the exterior and interior (figs. 4–5).\n\nIn some cases, a project may be so extensive that it requires the complete removal of a panel, or set of panels from public view, which in turn raises other considerations concerning public access. An excellent example of such a case is the current, on-going project to conserve York Minster funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF), which raises the question: how do conservators accommodate the needs of the living, functioning Minster, without compromising conservation goals (fig. 6) (Rosewell 2008a)? For instance, upon the removal of the Great East Window from public view (for up to ten years), a solution was needed to combat the sudden gloom of the Minster's interior. Ultimately, a remarkable life-sized, digital replica was produced to brighten the “visual 'black hole' that remains” while conservation work is taking place, thus facilitating the aims of conservators by minimising the detrimental effects of losing the visual impact window on the interior (fig. 7) (Rosewell 2008b). This is not the first time that York Minster has employed a variety of methods to maintain and increase public access while also facilitating the conservation of its stained glass legacy. Currently, conserved sections of panels that have been permanently removed from their original context due to conservation concerns can be viewed on display near the choir (fig. 8). Although it is rare that a perfect solution to these concerns can be found, it is a necessary part of conservation planning to take public interest and access into consideration. \n\n\n\nThe following sources have not been referred to directly in this article, but offer further information on stained glass conservation, including past approaches, and technical information.\n\nhttp://www.sgaaonline.com/pdf/071-LaFarge.pdf\n\nWindows\n"}
{"id": "3227512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3227512", "title": "Cornelius the Centurion", "text": "Cornelius the Centurion\n\nCornelius () was a Roman centurion who is considered by Christians to be one of the first Gentiles to convert to the faith, as related in Acts of the Apostles.\n\nCornelius was a centurion in the Cohors II Italica Civium Romanorum, mentioned as \"Cohors Italica\" in the Vulgate. He was stationed in Caesarea, the capital of Roman Iudaea province. He is depicted in the New Testament as a God-fearing man who always prayed and was full of good works and deeds of alms. Cornelius receives a vision in which an angel of God tells him that his prayers have been heard, he understands that he's chosen for a higher alternative. The angel then instructs Cornelius to send the men of his household to Joppa, where they will find Simon Peter, who is residing with a tanner by the name of Simon ().\n\nThe conversion of Cornelius comes after a separate vision given to Simon Peter () himself. In the vision, Simon Peter sees all manner of beasts and fowl being lowered from Heaven in a sheet. A voice commands Simon Peter to eat. When he objects to eating those animals that are unclean according to Mosaic Law, the voice tells him not to call unclean that which God has cleansed.\n\nWhen Cornelius' men arrive, Simon Peter understands that through this vision the Lord commanded the Apostle to preach the Word of God to the Gentiles. Peter accompanies Cornelius' men back to Caesarea. When Cornelius meets Simon Peter, he falls at Peter's feet. Simon Peter raises the centurion and the two men share their visions. Simon Peter tells of Jesus' ministry and the Resurrection; the Holy Spirit descends on everyone at the gathering. The Jews among the group (presumably they were all Jews if Cornelius was the first gentile convert, see Jewish Christians) are amazed that Cornelius and other uncircumcised should begin speaking in tongues, praising God. Thereupon Simon Peter commands that Cornelius and his followers be baptized.\nThe controversial aspect of Gentile conversion is taken up later at the Council of Jerusalem ().\n\nPeter later chose not to eat with Gentiles in Antioch after some Jews criticized him. The apostle Paul publicly confronted Peter for being hypocritical as related in Galatians 2.\n\nCornelius was one of the first Gentiles converted to Christianity. \n\nThe baptism of Cornelius is an important event in the history of the early Christian church, along with the conversion and baptism of the Ethiopian eunuch. The Christian church was first formed around the original disciples and followers of Jesus, all of whom were Jewish. All males in that community were circumcised and observed the Law of Moses. The reception of Cornelius sparked a conversation among the Jewish leaders of the new Christian church, culminating in the decision to allow Gentiles to become Christians without conforming to Jewish requirements for circumcision, as recounted in Acts 15 ().\n\nCertain traditions hold Cornelius as becoming either the first bishop of Caesarea or the bishop of Scepsis in Mysia.\n\nHis feast day on the General Roman Calendar is 2 February. He is commemorated in the Orthodox tradition on 13 September.\n\nCornelius is honored with a commemoration in the liturgical calendar of The Episcopal Church on February 4. When Governor's Island, New York, was a military installation the Episcopal Church maintained a stone chapel there dedicated to him.\n\nThe Greek-French philosopher Cornelius Castoriadis is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28092714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28092714", "title": "Cubist sculpture", "text": "Cubist sculpture\n\nCubist sculpture developed in parallel with Cubist painting, beginning in Paris around 1909 with its proto-Cubist phase, and evolving through the early 1920s. Just as Cubist painting, Cubist sculpture is rooted in Paul Cézanne's reduction of painted objects into component planes and geometric solids; cubes, spheres, cylinders, and cones. Presenting fragments and facets of objects that could be visually interpreted in different ways had the effect of 'revealing the structure' of the object. Cubist sculpture essentially is the dynamic rendering of three-dimensional objects in the language of non-Euclidean geometry by shifting viewpoints of volume or mass in terms of spherical, flat and hyperbolic surfaces.\n\nIn the historical analysis of most modern movements such as Cubism there has been a tendency to suggest that sculpture trailed behind painting. Writings about individual sculptors within the Cubist movement are commonly found, while writings about Cubist sculpture are premised on painting, offering sculpture nothing more than a supporting role.\n\nWe are better advised, writes Penelope Curtis, \"to look at what is sculptural within Cubism. Cubist painting is an almost sculptural translation of the external world; its associated sculpture translates Cubist painting back into a semi-reality\". Attempts to separate painting and sculpture, even by 1910, are very difficult. \"If painters used sculpture for their own ends, so sculptors exploited the new freedom too\", writes Curtis, \"and we should look at what sculptors took from the discourse of painting and why. In the longer term we could read such developments as the beginning of a process in which sculpture expands, poaching painting's territory and then others, to become steadily more prominent in this century\".\n\nIncreasingly, painters claim sculptural means of problem solving for their paintings. Braque's paper sculptures of 1911, for example, were intended to clarify and enrich his pictorial idiom. \"This has meant\" according to Curtis, \"that we have tended to see sculpture through painting, and even to see painters as poaching sculpture. This is largely because we read Gauguin, Degas, Matisse, and Picasso as painters even when looking at their sculpture, but also because their sculptures often deserve to be spoken of as much as paintings as sculptures\".\nA painting is meant both to capture the palpable three-dimensionality of the world revealed to the retina, and to draw attention to itself as a two-dimensional object, so that it is both a depiction and an object in itself. Such is the case for Picasso's 1909-10 \"Head of a Woman (Head of Fernande)\", often considered the first Cubist sculpture. Yet \"Head of a Woman\", writes Curtis, \"had mainly revealed how Cubism was more interesting in Painting—where it showed in two dimensions how to represent three dimensions—than in sculpture\". Picasso's \"Head of a Woman\" was less adventurous than his painting of 1909 and subsequent years.\n\nThough it is difficult to define what can properly be called a 'Cubist sculpture', Picasso's 1909-10 \"Head\" bares the hallmarks of early Cubism in that the various surfaces constituting the face and hair are broken down into irregular fragments that meet at sharp angles, rendering practically unreadable the basic volume of the head beneath. These facets are obviously a translation from two to three dimensions of the broken planes of Picasso's 1909-10 paintings.\n\nAccording to the art historian Douglas Cooper, \"The first true Cubist sculpture was Picasso's impressive \"Woman's Head\", modeled in 1909-10, a counterpart in three dimensions to many similar analytical and faceted heads in his paintings at the time.\"\nIt has been suggested that in contrast to Cubist painters, Cubist sculptors did not create a new art of 'space-time'. Unlike a flat painting, high-relief sculpture from its volumetric nature could never be limited to a single view-point. Hence, as Peter Collins highlights, it is absurd to state that Cubist sculpture, like painting, was not limited to a single point of view.\n\nThe concept of Cubist sculpture may seem \"paradoxical\", writes George Heard Hamilton, \"because the fundamental Cubist situation was the representation on a two-dimensional surface of a multi-dimensional space at least theoretically impossible to see or to represent in the three dimensions of actual space, the temptation to move from a pictorial diagram to its spatial realization proved irresistible\".\nNow liberated from the one-to-one relationship between a fixed coordinate in space captured at a single moment in time assumed by classical vanishing-point perspective, the Cubist sculptor, just as the painter, became free to explore notions of \"simultaneity\", whereby several positions in space captured at successive time intervals could be depicted within the bounds of a single three-dimensional work of art.\n\nOf course, 'simultaneity' and 'multiple perspective' were not the only characteristics of Cubism. In Du \"Cubisme\" the painters Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger write:\n\nMore astonishing still, writes John Adkins Richardson, \"is the fact that the artists participating in the [Cubist] movement not only created a revolution, they surpassed it, going on to create other styles of an incredible range and dissimilarity, and even devised new forms and techniques in sculpture and ceramic arts\".\n\n\"Cubists sculpture\", writes Douglas Cooper, \"must be discussed apart from the painting because it followed other paths, which were sometimes similar but never parallel\".\n\n\"But not infrequently the sculptor and the painter upset the equilibrium of the work of others by doing things which are out of key or out of proportion.\" (Arthur Jerome Eddy)\n\nThe use of diverging vantage-points for representing the features of objects or subject matter became a central factor in the practice of all Cubists, leading to the assertion, as noted by the art historian Christopher Green, \"that Cubist art was essentially conceptual rather than perceptual\". Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in their 1912 writing, along with the writings by the critic , were most responsible for the emphasis given to this claim. Raynal argued, echoing Metzinger and Gleizes, that the rejection of classical perspective in favor of multiplicity represented a break with the 'instantaneity' that characterized Impressionism. The mind now directed the optical exploration of the world. Painting and sculpture no longer merely recorded sensations generated through the eye; but resulted from the intelligence of both artist and observer. This was a mobile and dynamic investigation that explored multiple facets of the world.\n\nThe origins of Cubist sculpture are as diverse as the origins of Cubist painting, resulting from a wide range of influences, experiments and circumstances, rather than from one source. With its roots stemming as far back as ancient Egypt, Greece and Africa, the proto-Cubist period (englobing both painting and sculpture) is characterized by the geometrization of form. It is essentially the first experimental and exploratory phase, in three-dimensional form, of an art movement known from the spring of 1911 as Cubism.\n\nThe influences that characterize the transition from classical to modern sculpture range from diverse artistic movements (Post-Impressionism, Symbolism, Les Nabis and Neo-Impressionism), to the works of individual artists such as Auguste Rodin, Aristide Maillol, Antoine Bourdelle, Charles Despiau, Constantin Meunier, Edgar Degas, Paul Cézanne, Georges Seurat and Paul Gauguin (among others), to African art, Egyptian art, Ancient Greek art, Oceanic art, Native American art, and Iberian schematic art.\n\nBefore the advent of Cubism artists had questioned the treatment of form inherent in art since the Renaissance. Eugène Delacroix the romanticist, Gustave Courbet the realist, and virtually all the Impressionists had jettisoned Classicism in favor of \"immediate sensation\". The \"dynamic\" expression favored by these artists presented a challenge to the \"static\" traditional means of expression.\n\nIn his 1914 \"Cubists and Post-Impressionism\" Arthur Jerome Eddy makes reference to Auguste Rodin and his relation to both Post-Impressionism and Cubism:\n\nThe truth is there is more of Cubism in great painting than we dream, and the extravagances of the Cubists may serve to open our eyes to beauties we have always felt without quite understanding.\n\nTake, for instance, the strongest things by Winslow Homer; the strength lies in the big, elemental manner in which the artist rendered his impressions in lines and masses which departed widely from photographic reproductions of scenes and people.\n\nRodin's bronzes exhibit these same elemental qualities, qualities which are pushed to violent extremes in Cubist sculpture. But may it not be profoundly true that these very extremes, these very extravagances, by causing us to blink and rub our eyes, end in a finer understanding and appreciation of such work as Rodin's?\n\nHis Balzac is, in a profound sense, his most colossal work, and at the same time his most elemental. In its simplicity, in its use of planes and masses, it is—one might say, solely for purposes of illustration—Cubist, with none of the extravagances of Cubism. It is purely Post-Impressionistic.\nSeveral factors mobilized the shift from a representational art form to one increasingly abstract; a most important factor would be found in the works of Paul Cézanne, and his interpretation of nature in terms of the cylinder, the sphere, and the cone. In addition to his tendency to simplify geometric structure, Cézanne was concerned with rendering the effect of volume and space. Cézanne's departure from classicism, however, would be best summarized in the complex treatment of surface variations (or modulations) with overlapped shifting planes, seemingly arbitrary contours, contrasts and values combined to produce a planar faceting effect. In his later works, Cézanne achieves a greater freedom, with larger, bolder, more arbitrary faceting, with dynamic and increasingly abstract results. As the colors planes acquire greater formal independence, defined objects and structures begin to lose their identity.\n\nAvant-garde artists working in Paris had begun reevaluating their own work in relation to that of Cézanne following a retrospective of his paintings at the Salon d'Automne of 1904, and exhibitions of his work at the Salon d'Automne of 1905 and 1906, followed by two commemorative retrospectives after his death in 1907. The influence generated by the work of Cézanne, in combination with the impact of diverse cultures, suggests a means by which artists (including Alexander Archipenko, Constantin Brâncuși, Georges Braque, Joseph Csaky, Robert Delaunay, Henri le Fauconnier, Albert Gleizes, Fernand Léger, Jean Metzinger, Amedeo Modigliani and Pablo Picasso) made the transition to diverse forms of Cubism.\n\nYet the extreme to which the Cubist painters and sculptors exaggerated the distortions created by the use of multiple perspective and the depiction of forms in terms of planes is the late work of Paul Cézanne, led to a fundamental change in the formal strategy and relationship between artist and subject not anticipated by Cézanne.\n\nAnother factor in the shift towards abstraction was the increasing exposure to Prehistoric art, and art produced by various cultures: African art, Cycladic art, Oceanic art, Art of the Americas, the Art of ancient Egypt, Iberian sculpture, and Iberian schematic art. Artists such as Paul Gauguin, Henri Matisse, André Derain, Henri Rousseau and Pablo Picasso were inspired by the stark power and stylistic simplicity of artworks produced by these cultures.\n\nAround 1906, Picasso met Matisse through Gertrude Stein, at a time when both artists had recently acquired an interest in Tribal art, Iberian sculpture and African tribal masks. They became friendly rivals and competed with each other throughout their careers, perhaps leading to Picasso entering a new period in his work by 1907, marked by the influence of ethnographic art. Picasso's paintings of 1907 have been characterized as proto-Cubism, as \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", the antecedent of Cubism.\n\nThe African influence, which introduced anatomical simplifications, along with expressive features reminiscent of El Greco, are the generally assumed starting point for the Proto-Cubism of Picasso. He began working on studies for Les Demoiselles d'Avignon after a visit to the ethnographic museum at Palais du Trocadero. But that wasn't all. Aside from further influences of the Symbolists, Pierre Daix explored Picasso’s Cubism from a formal position in relation to the ideas and works of Claude Lévi-Strauss on the subject of myth. And too, without doubt, writes Podoksik, Picasso’s proto-Cubism came not from the external appearance of events and things, but from great emotional and instinctive feelings, from the most profound layers of the psyche.\n\nEuropean artists (and art collectors) prized objects from different cultures for their stylistic traits defined as attributes of primitive expression: absence of classical perspective, simple outlines and shapes, presence of symbolic signs including the hieroglyph, emotive figural distortions, and the dynamic rhythms generated by repetitive ornamental patterns.\n\nThese were the profound energizing stylistic attributes, present in the visual arts of Africa, Oceana, the Americas, that attracted not just Picasso, but many of the Parisian avant-garde that transited through a proto-Cubist phase. While some delved deeper into the problems of geometric abstraction, becoming known as Cubists, others such as Derain and Matisse chose different paths. And others still such as Brâncuși and Modigliani exhibited with the Cubists yet defied classification as Cubists.\n\nIn \"The Rise if Cubism\" Daniel Henry Kahnweiler writes of the similarities between African art with Cubist painting and sculpture:\n\nIn the years 1913 and 1914 Braque and Picasso attempted to eliminate the use of color as chiaroscuro, which had still persisted to some extent in their painting, by amalgamating painting and sculpture. Instead of having to demonstrate through shadows how one plane stands above, or in front of a second plane, they could now superimpose the planes one on the other and illustrate the relationship directly. The first attempts to do this go far back. Picasso had already begun such an enterprise in 1909, but since he did it within the limits of closed form, it was destined to fail. It resulted in a kind of colored bas-relief. Only in open planal form could this union of painting and sculpture be realized. Despite current prejudice, this endeavor to increase plastic expression through the collaboration of the two arts must be warmly approved; an enrichment of the plastic arts is certain to result from it. A number of sculptors like Lipchitz, Laurens and Archipenko have since taken up and developed this sculpto-painting.<br><br>\n\nNor is this form entirely new in the history of the plastic arts. The negroes of the Ivory Coast have made use of a very similar method of expression in their dance masks. These are constructed as follows: a completely flat plane forms the lower part of the face; to this is joined the high forehead, which is sometimes equally flat, sometimes bent slightly backward. While the nose is added as a simple strip of wood, two cylinders protrude about eight centimeters to form the eyes, and one slightly shorter hexahedron forms the mouth. The frontal surfaces of the cylinder and hexahedron are painted, and the hair is represented by raffia. It is true that the form is still closed here; however, it is not the \"real\" form, but rather a tight formal scheme of plastic primeval force. Here, too, we find a scheme of forms and \"real details\" (the painted eyes, mouth and hair) as stimuli. The result in the mind of the spectator, the desired effect, is a human face.\"\n\nJust as in painting, Cubist sculpture is rooted in Paul Cézanne's reduction of painted objects into component planes and geometric solids (cubes, spheres, cylinders, and cones) along with the arts of diverse cultures. In the spring of 1908 Picasso worked on the representation of three-dimensional form and its position in space on a two-dimensional surface. \"Picasso painted figures resembling Congo sculptures\", wrote Kanhweiler, \"and still lifes of the simplest form. His perspective in these works is similar to that of Cézanne\".\n\nThe diverse styles of Cubism have been associated with the formal experiments of Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso exhibited exclusively at the Kahnweiler gallery. However, alternative contemporary views on Cubism have formed to some degree in response to the more publicized Salon Cubists (Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Robert Delaunay, Henri Le Fauconnier, Fernand Léger, Alexander Archipenko and Joseph Csaky), whose methods and ideas were too distinct from those of Braque and Picasso to be considered merely secondary to them. Cubist sculpture, just as Cubist painting, is difficult to define. Cubism in general cannot definitively be called either a style, the art of a specific group or even a specific movement. \"It embraces widely disparate work, applying to artists in different milieux\". (Christopher Green)\n\nArtist sculptors working in Montparnasse were quick to adopt the language of non-Euclidean geometry, rendering three-dimensional objects by shifting viewpoints and of volume or mass in terms of successive curved or flat planes and surfaces. Alexander Archipenko's 1912 \"Walking Woman\" is cited as the first modern sculpture with an abstracted void, i.e., a hole in the middle. Joseph Csaky, following Archipenko, was the first sculptor to join the Cubists, with whom he exhibited from 1911 onward. They were joined by Raymond Duchamp-Villon (1876-1918), whose career was cut short by his death in military service, and then in 1914 by Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Laurens and later Ossip Zadkine.\n\nAccording to Herbert Read, this has the effect of \"revealing the structure\" of the object, or of presenting fragments and facets of the object to be visually interpreted in different ways. Both of these effects transfer to sculpture. Although the artists themselves did not use these terms, the distinction between \"analytic cubism\" and \"synthetic cubism\" could also be seen in sculpture, writes Read (1964): \"In the analytical Cubism of Picasso and Braque, the definite purpose of the geometricization of the planes is to emphasize the formal structure of the motif represented. In the synthetic Cubism of Juan Gris the definite purpose is to create an effective formal pattern, geometricization being a means to this end.\"\n\nAlexander Archipenko studied Egyptian and archaic Greek figures in the Louvre in 1908 when he arrived in Paris. He was \"the first\", according to Barr, \"to work seriously and consistently at the problem of Cubist sculpture\". His torso entitled \"Hero\" (1910) appears related stylistically to Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, \"but in its energetic three-dimensional torsion it is entirely independent of Cubist painting.\" (Barr)\n\nArchipenko evolved in close contact with the Salon Cubists (Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Henri Le Fauconnier, Robert Delaunay, Joseph Csaky and others). At the same time, his affinities with Futurism were documented by the British magazine \"The Sketch\" in October 1913, where Archipenko's \"Dancers (Dance)\", reproduced on its front cover, was described as a 'Futurist sculpture'. \"In this work\", writes Alexandra Keiser, \"two abstracted figures are engaged in a dynamic dance movement.\" Moreover, the chiaroscuro observed in the photographic reproduction \"accentuated the artist's multi-faceted use of positive and negative space as a compositional element to create dynamic movement, in both the fragmentation of the dancers' bodies as well as in the void created between their bodies\". In the photographic reproduction of \"Dancers\", writes Keiser, \"the sculpture is set off at an angle reinforcing the idea of dynamism and creating the illusion that the sculpture is propelled through space. The sculpture \"Dance\" itself as well as the style of its reproduction played strongly to the generalized notions of Futurism and to the idea that sculpture could be conceived as a specifically modern medium\".\n\nHerwarth Walden of Der Sturm in Berlin described Archipenko as 'the most important sculptor of our time'. Walden also promoted Archipenko as the foremost Expressionist sculptor. (Before World War I \"Expressionism\" encompassed several definitions and artistic concepts. Walden used the term to describe modern art movements including Futurism and Cubism).\n\nArchipenko's \"Woman with a Fan\" (1914) combines high-relief sculpture with painted colors (polychrome) to create striking illusions of volumetric space. Experimenting with the dynamic interplay of convex and concave surfaces, Archipenko created works such as \"Woman Combing her Hair\" (1915). Depending on the movement around the sculpture and effects of lighting, concave and convex surfaces appear alternately to protrude or recede. His use of sculptural voids was inspired by the philosopher Henri Bergson's \"Creative Evolution\" (1907) on the distortions of our understanding of reality, and how our intellect tends to define unanticipated circumstances positively or negatively. 'If the present reality is not one we are seeking, we speak of an absence of this sought reality wherever we find the presence of another'. \"Archipenko's sculptural voids\", write Antliff and Leighten, \"allows us to fill this illusory gap with our own durational consciousness\".\n\nIn 1914, Arthur Jerome Eddy examined what made Archipenko's sculpture, \"Family Life\", exhibited at the Armory Show unique, powerful, modern and Cubist:\n\nSpiritual, emotional, and mathematical intellectuality, too, is behind the family group of Archipenko. This group, in plaster, might have been made of dough. It represents a featureless, large, strong male—one gets the impression of strength from humps and lumps—an impression of a female, less vivid, and the vague knowledge that a child is mixed up in the general embrace. The faces are rather blocky, the whole group with arms intertwined—arms that end suddenly, no hands, might be the sketch of a sculpture to be. But when one gets an insight it is intensely more interesting. It is, eventually, clear that in portraying his idea of family love the sculptor has built his figures with pyramidal strength; they are grafted together with love and geometric design, their limbs are bracings, ties of strength, they represent, not individuals, but the structure itself of family life. Not family life as one sees it, but the unseen, the deep emotional unseen, and in making his group when the sculptor found himself verging upon the seen—that is, when he no longer felt the unseen—he stopped. Therefore the hands were not essential. And this expression is made in the simplest way. Some will hoot at it, but others will feel the respect that is due one who simplifies and expresses the deep things of life. You may say that such is literature in marble—well, it is the most modern sculpture.<br><br>\n\nThe group is so angular, so \"Cubist\", so ugly according to accepted notions, that few look long enough to see what the sculptor means; yet strange as the group was it undeniably gave a powerful impression of the binding, the \"blending\" character of the family tie, a much more powerful impression than groups in conventional academic pose could give.\n\nJoseph Csaky arrived in Paris from his native Hungary during the summer of 1908. By autumn of 1908 Csaky shared a studio space at Cité Falguière with Joseph Brummer, a Hungarian friend who had opened the Brummer Gallery with his brothers. Within three weeks, Brummer showed Csaky a sculpture he was working on: an exact copy of an African sculpture from the Congo. Brummer told Csaky that another artist in Paris, a Spaniard by the name of Pablo Picasso, was painting in the spirit of 'Negro' sculptures.\n\nLiving and working at La Ruche in Montparnasse, Csaky exhibited his highly stylized 1909 sculpture \"Tête de femme (Portrait de Jeanne)\" at the 1910 Salon de la Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts, now significantly beyond the influence of Auguste Rodin. The following year he exhibited a proto-Cubist work entitled \"Mademoiselle Douell\" (1910).\n\nCsaky's proto-Cubist works include \"Femme et enfant\" (1909), collection Zborovsky, \"Tête de femme de profil\" (1909), exhibited Société National des Beaux-Arts, 1910, \"Tête de femme de face\" (1909). By 1910-11 Csaky's Cubist works included \"Tête d'homme, Autoportrait, Tête Cubiste\" (1911), exhibited at the Salon d'Automne of 1911.\n\nIn 1911, Csaky exhibited his Cubist sculptures, including \"Mademoiselle Douell\" (no. 1831) at the \"Salon des Indépendants\" (21 April - 13 June) with Archipenko, Duchamp, Gleizes, Laurencin, La Fresnaye, Léger, Picabia and Metzinger. This exhibition provoked a scandal out of which Cubism was revealed to the general public for the first time. From that exhibition it emerged and spread throughout Paris and beyond.\n\nFour months later Csaky exhibited at the \"Salon d'Automne\" (1 October - 8 November) in room XI together with the same artists, in addition to Modigliani and František Kupka, his \"Groupe de femmes\" (1911–1912), a massive, highly stylized block-like sculpture representing three women. At the same Salon Csaky exhibited \"Portrait de M.S.H.\", no. 91, his deeply faceted \"Danseuse (Femme à l'éventail, Femme à la cruche)\", no. 405, and \"Tête d'homme (\"Tête d'adolescent)\" no. 328, the first in a series of self-portraits that would become increasingly abstract in accord with his Cubist sensibility.\n\nThe following spring, Csaky showed at the Salon des Indépendants (1913) with the same group, including Lhote, Duchamp-Villon and Villon.\n\nCsaky exhibited as a member of Section d'Or at the Galerie La Boétie (10–30 October 1912), with Archipenko, Duchamp-Villon, La Fresnaye, Gleizes, Gris, Laurencin, Léger, Lhote, Marcoussis, Metzinger, Picabia, Kupka, Villon and Duchamp.\n\nAt the 1913 Salon des Indépendants, held March 9 through 18 May, Csaky exhibited his 1912 \"Tête de Femme (Buste de femme)\", an exceedingly faceted sculpture later purchased by Léonce Rosenberg. The Cubist works were shown in room 46. Metzinger exhibited his large \"L'Oiseau bleu\" — Albert Gleizes, Albert Gleizes. \"Les Joueurs de football\" (Football Players)\" 1912-13, National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C — Robert Delaunay \"The Cardiff Team (L'équipe de Cardiff )\" 1913, Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven — Fernand Léger, \"Le modèle nu dans l'atelier (Nude Model In The Studio)\" 1912-13, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York — Juan Gris, \"L'Homme dans le Café (Man in Café)\" 1912, Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nThe inspirations that led Csaky to Cubism were diverse, as they were for artists of Le Bateau-Lavoir, and other still of the Section d'Or. Certainly Cézanne's geometric syntax was a significant influence, as well as Seurat's scientific approach to painting. Given a growing dissatisfaction with the classical methods of representation, and the contemporary changes—the industrial revolution, exposure to art from across the world—artists began to transform their expression. Now at 9 rue Blainville in the fifth arrondissement in Paris Csaky—along with the Cubist sculptors who would follow—stimulated by the profound cultural changes and his own experiences, contributed his own personal artistic language to the movement.\n\nCsaky wrote of the direction his art had taken during the crucial years:\n\n\"There was no question which was my way. True, I was not alone, but in the company of several artists who came from Eastern Europe. I joined the cubists in the Académie La Palette, which became the sanctuary of the new direction in art. On my part I did not want to imitate anyone or anything. This is why I joined the cubists movement.\" (Joseph Csaky)\n\nJoseph Csaky contributed substantially to the development of modern sculpture, both as an early pioneer in applying Cubist principles to sculpture, and as a leading figure in nonrepresentational art of the 1920s.\n\nAlthough some comparison can be drawn between the mask-like totemic characteristics of various Gabon sculptures, primitive art was well beyond the conservative French sensibilities visible in the work of Raymond Duchamp-Villon. Gothic sculpture, on the other hand, seems to have provided Duchamp-Villon the impetus for expressing novel possibilities of human representation, in a manner parallel to that provided by African art for Derain, Picasso, Braque and others.\n\nTo his credit, Duchamp-Villon exhibited early on with the Cubists (Albert Gleizes, Jean Metzinger, Fernand Léger, Henri le Fauconnier, Roger de La Fresnaye, Francis Picabia, Joseph Csaky) at the 1912 Salon d'Automne; a massive public Cubist manifestation that caused yet another scandal, following from the Salon des Indépendants and Salon d'Automne of 1911. His role as architect of \"la Maison Cubiste (Cubist house)\" propelled him into the center of a politico-social scandal that accused the Cubists of \"foreign aesthetic inspiration\".\n\nWith the same group, including his brothers Jacques Villon and Marcel Duchamp, he exhibited at the Salon de la Section d'Or in the fall of 1912.\n\nIn \"Les Peintres Cubistes\" (1913) Guillaume Apollinaire writes of Duchamp-Villon:\n\nThe early sculptures of Jacques Lipchitz, 1911-1912, were conventional portraits and figure studies executed in the tradition of Aristide Maillol and Charles Despiau. He progressively turned toward Cubism in 1914 with periodic reference to Negro sculpture. His 1915 \"Baigneuse\" is comparable to figures from Gabun. In 1916 his figures became more abstract, though less so than those of Brâncuși's sculptures of 1912-1915. Lipchitz' \"Baigneuse Assise\" (70.5 cm) of 1916 is clearly reminiscent of Csaky's 1913 \"Figure de Femme Debout, 1913 (Figure Habillée)\" (80 cm), exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants in the spring of 1913, with the same architectonic rendering of the shoulders, head, torso, and lower body, both with an angular pyramidal, cylidrical and spherical geometric armature. Just as some of the works of Picasso and Braque of the period are virtually indistinguishable, so too are Csaky's and Lipchitz sculptures, only Csaky's predates that of Lipchitz by three years.\n\nLike Archipenko and Csaky, both Lipchitz and Henri Laurens were aware of primitive African art, though hardly evident in their works. Lipchitz collected African art from 1912 on, but Laurens, in fact, appears to have been entirely unaffected by African art. Both his early reliefs and three-dimensional sculptures attach problems posed by Cubist painters first. Lipchitz and Laurens were concerned with giving tangible substance to idea first pronounced by Jean Metzinger in his 1910 \"Note sur la peinture\" of simultaneous multiple views. \"They were\", as Goldwater notes, \"undoubtedly impressed with the natural three-dimensionality of African sculpture and with its rhythmic interplay of solid and related void. But in its frontality and mass, though often composed of \"cubic\" shapes, it was anything but cubist, and was indeed, fundamentally anti-cubist in conception\". The African sculptor, writes Goldwater, \"whether his forms were rectangular, elliptical, or round in outline, and whether he cut back little or much into the cylinder of fresh wood with which he began, was content to show one aspect of his figure at a time\". Goldwater continues: :\"He achieved his \"instinctive\" three-dimensional effect by calculated simplification and separation of parts that allowed the eye to grasp each one as a unified, coherent mass. The cubist sculptor, on the other hand, wished to \"make his figure turn\" by simultaneously showing or suggesting frontal and orthogonal planes, by flattening diagonals, and by swinging other hidden surfaces into view.\"\n\nSome time after Joseph Csaky's 1911-14 sculptural figures consisting of conic, cylindrical and spherical shapes, a translation of two-dimensional form into three-dimensional form had been undertaken by the French sculptor Henri Laurens. He had met Braque in 1911 and exhibited at the Salon de la Section d'Or in 1912, but his mature activity as a sculptor began in 1915 after experimenting with different materials.\n\nUmberto Boccioni exhibited his Futurist sculptures in Paris in 1913 after having studied the works of Archipenko, Brâncuși, Csaky, and Duchamp-Villon. Boccioni's background was in painting, as his Futurist colleagues, but unlike others was impelled to adapt the subjects and atmospheric faceting of Futurism to sculpture. For Boccioni, physical motion is relative, in opposition with absolute motion. The Futurist had no intention of abstracting reality. \"We are not against nature,\" wrote Boccioni, \"as believed by the innocent late bloomers [retardataires] of realism and naturalism, but against art, that is, against immobility.\" While common in painting, this was rather new in sculpture. Boccioni expressed in the preface of the catalogue for the \"First Exhibition of Futurist Sculpture\" his wish to break down the stasis of sculpture by the utilization of diverse materials and coloring grey and black paint of the edges of the contour (to represent chiaroscuro). Though Boccioni had attacked Medardo Rosso for adhering closely to pictorial concepts, Lipchitz described Boccioni's 'Unique Forms' as a relief concept, just as a futurist painting translated into three-dimensions.\n\nThe works of Constantin Brâncuși differ considerably from others through lack of severe planar faceting often associated with those of prototypical Cubists such as Archipenko, Csaky and Duchamp-Villon (themselves already very different from one another). However, in common is the tendency toward simplification and abstract representation.\n\nBefore reviewing the works of Brâncuși, Arthur Jerome Eddy writes of Wilhelm Lehmbruck:\n\nThe heads by Brâncuși were idealistic in the extreme; the sculptor carried his theories of mass and form so far he deliberately lost all resemblance to actuality. He uses his subjects as motives rather than models. In this respect he is not unlike—though more extreme than—the great Japanese and Chinese artists, who use life and nature arbitrarily to secure the results they desire.\n\nI have a golden bronze head—a \"Sleeping Muse,\" by Brâncuși—so simple, so severe in its beauty, it might have come from the Orient.\n\nOf this head and two other pieces of sculpture exhibited by Brâncuși in July, 1913, at the Allied Artists' Exhibition in London, Roger Fry said in \"The Nation\", August 2: Constantin Brâncuși's sculptures have not, I think, been seen before in England. His three heads are the most remarkable works of sculpture at the Albert Hall. Two are in brass and one in stone. They show a technical skill which is almost disquieting, a skill which might lead him, in default of any overpowering imaginative purpose, to become a brilliant pasticheur. But it seemed to me there was evidence of passionate conviction; that the simplification of forms was no mere exercise in plastic design, but a real interpretation of the rhythm of life. These abstract vivid forms into which he compresses his heads give a vivid presentment of character; they are not empty abstractions, but filled with a content which has been clearly, and passionately apprehended.\n\nEddy elaborates on Brâncuși and Archipenko:\n\nNature is purposely left far behind, as far behind as in Cubist pictures, and for very much the same reasons.\n\nOf all the sculpture in the International Exhibition Armory Show the two pieces that excited the most ridicule were Brâncuși's egg-shaped \"Portrait of Mlle. Pogany\" and \"Family Life\" by Archipenko.\n\nBoth are creative works, products of the imagination, but in their inspiration they are fundamentally different.\n\nIn June 1915 the young modern sculptor Henri Gaudier-Brzeska lost his life in the war. Shortly before his death he wrote a letter and sent it to friends in London:\n\nI have been fighting for two months and I can now gage the intensity of life.[...]\n\nIt would be folly to seek artistic emotions amid these little works of ours.[...]\n\nMy views on sculpture remain absolutely the same.\n\nIt is the vortex of will, of decision, that begins.\n\nI shall derive my emotions solely from the arrangement of surfaces. I shall present my emotions by the arrangement of my surfaces, the planes and lines by which they are defined.\n\nJust as this hill, where the Germans are solidly entrenched, gives me a nasty feeling, solely because its gentle slopes are broken up by earthworks, which throw long shadows at sunset—just so shall I get feeling, of whatsoever definition, from a statue according to its slopes, varied to infinity.\n\nI have made an experiment. Two days ago I pinched from an enemy a mauser rifle. Its heavy, unwieldy shape swamped me with a powerful image of brutality.\n\nI was in doubt for a long time whether it pleased or displeased me.\n\nI found that I did not like it.\n\nI broke the butt off and with my knife I carved in it a design, through which I tried to express a gentler order of feeling, which I preferred.\n\nBut I will emphasize that my design got its effect (just as the gun had) from a very simple composition of lines and planes. (Gaudier-Brzeska, 1915)\n\nExperimentation in three-dimensional art had brought sculpture into the world of painting, with unique pictorial solutions. By 1914 it was clear that sculpture had moved inexorably closer to painting, becoming a formal experiment, one inseparable from the other.\n\nBy the early 1920s, significant Cubist sculpture had been done in Sweden (by sculptor Bror Hjorth), in Prague (by Gutfreund and his collaborator Emil Filla), and at least two dedicated \"Cubo-Futurist\" sculptors were on staff at the Soviet art school Vkhutemas in Moscow (Boris Korolev and Vera Mukhina).\n\nThe movement had run its course by about 1925, but Cubist approaches to sculpture didn't end as much as they became a pervasive influence, fundamental to the related developments of Constructivism, Purism, Futurism, Die Brücke, De Stijl, Dada, Abstract art, Surrealism and Art Deco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11008592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11008592", "title": "Drapery hook", "text": "Drapery hook\n\nThe drapery hook is a hook designed for hanging drapery. The distinctive shape shown in the figure, with a sharp end and a blunt end, was patented by James William McGhee (1882–1968) in the 1920s. Numerous other drapery hooks were patented before and after this common design.\n\n\nPatent 1475306 was the subject of an infringement lawsuit that McGhee lost and appealed. He lost again on appeal when the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit found that hook designs were not patentable in 1929:\n\n"}
{"id": "5829941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5829941", "title": "Dunno", "text": "Dunno\n\nDunno, or Know-Nothing or Ignoramus (, \"Neznayka\" that is Don'tknowka (ka - the Russian suffix here for drawing up the whole name in a cheerful form); from the Russian phrase \" (\"ne znayu\"\"), \"don't know\") is a character created by Soviet children's writer Nikolay Nosov. The idea of the character comes from the books of Palmer Cox.\n\nDunno, recognized by his bright blue hat, canary-yellow trousers, orange shirt, and green tie, is the title character of Nosov's world-famous trilogy, \"The Adventures of Dunno and his Friends\" (1954), \"Dunno in Sun City\" (1958), and \"Dunno on the Moon\" (1966). There have been several movie adaptations of the books.\n\nHis names were translated differently in various languages:\n\nThe three fairy tale novels follow the adventures of the little fictional childlike people living in \"Flower City\". They are described to be sized like \"medium cucumbers\", a quality that has earned them the name \"shorties\" or \"mites\". All fruits and vegetables growing in Flower City are, however, their regular size, so the Shorties invent sophisticated methods of growing and harvesting them. In Nosov's universe, each shorty occupies his/her own niche in the community and is named accordingly.\n\nIn Flower Town, Dunno gets into heaps of trouble. First, he becomes convinced that the sun is falling and manages to scare half the town before Doono, Dunno's brainy antithesis (his name is derived from the Russian \"\", \"I know\") clears everything up. Then he proceeds to try music, art, and poetry, but his unorthodox endeavors only irritate his friends, and he is forced to quit. Next, ignoring the warnings of Swifty, Dunno crashes Bendum and Twistum's car into the Cucumber River and ends up in the hospital. He then gets into a fight with his best friend Gunky for not ending his friendships with the girl-shorties Pee-Wee and Tinkle.\n\nDoono proposes to build a hot air balloon and go on an adventure. He and his friends begin extracting rubber, weaving the basket, and making emergency parachutes out of dandelions. A large rubber balloon is then inflated, fastened to the basket, and filled with hot air. The parachutes and other supplies are loaded, and sixteen seats are accommodated for. Everyone helps with preparations except for Dunno, who is too busy bossing everyone around and providing useless advice. The day of the departure comes, and Doono, Dunno, and fourteen other Mites come on board. Shot takes with him his dog, Dot. By this time, half the town still does not believe the balloon will be able to fly, but the balloon successfully rises off the ground, and all the shorties of Flower Town cheer. Gunky waves to Dunno from the ground but Dunno shuns him.\n\nThe balloon eventually crashes near the Greenville, inhabited only by girl-Mites (boy-Mites had left for the Kite Town where they can carry out freely their boyish activities), who took balloonists to the hospital to care for them. As Doono (who escaped from the balloon by parachute before the crash) is absent, Dunno describes himself to girl-Mites as balloon inventor and boy-Mites' leader. When he visits the hospital, he talks boy-Mites into supporting his version of facts, in exchange promising to help them out of hospital as soon as possible. With the time, Dunno's lies are discovered and he's mocked by boy-Mites, but consoled by girl-Mites.\n\nAfter receiving a magic wand from a wizard, Dunno, Pee-Wee, and Pachkulya Pyostrenkiy wish for a car and go on a road trip to Sun City. During their journey, they see many technological marvels like futuristic cars, bizarre architecture, televisions that can communicate with you, computerized chess players, etc. They also run into some trouble in the city, particularly when Dunno uses his magic wand to turn a Shorty into a donkey, and then turns two donkeys and a hinny into Shorties.\n\nDonno discovers that his moon rock (that he obtained from his previous travel to the Moon) creates a no gravity zone when interacting with a magnetic field. He uses this knowledge to build a rocket ship that will go to the moon much more easily because of being virtually weightless. However, Dunno and Roly-Poly are not allowed to go; Dunno, because of his undisciplined behavior, and Roly-Poly, because of his inability to cope with non-gravity effects. The night before the rocket launch, Dunno and Roly-Poly sneak into the ship and accidentally launch the rocket.\n\nWhen they arrive on the moon, Dunno and Roly-Poly become separated and Dunno falls through a cave and discovers a whole separate society of mites living inside the moon. However, unlike on Earth, these mites do not have \"giant food\" (that is, their fruit and vegetables are sized in proportion to the mites, rather than to normal humans like on Earth). The moon society is a corrupt capitalistic state: the millionaires control all the factories and squander their money away on unnecessary luxuries, the police are violent, corrupt, and stupid, everyday citizens struggle to survive and live in rat infested barracks.\n\nDunno gets thrown into jail for not having money to pay for his meal at a restaurant and is mistaken for a wanted criminal by the stupid police officers. In jail he meets Miga - a fast-talking schemer, and Kozlik - a poor, gentle worker. Upon getting released from jail, Miga introduces Kozlik and Dunno to Zhulio - another con man, and the four decide to start a company selling stocks to raise money to get \"giant seeds\" from Dunno's rocket ship and plant them on the moon. The stocks sell well and soon the four friends have lots of money. However, some of the local millionaire businessmen are worried that giant food will mean that poor workers can get richer and the millionaires may lose money. Their leader, Spruts, convinces Miga and Zhulio to steal the money and run leaving Dunno and Kozlik jobless and penniless.\n\nMeanwhile, Roly-Poly finds the same cave and also goes inside the moon. However, he quickly discovers salt and opens his own business making and selling it (salt was unknown for moon inhabitants). He gets rich but then goes bankrupt when the price of salt becomes too low because of a dumping scheme. Then Roly-Poly becomes an average worker.\n\nDunno and Kozlik work odd jobs but are still starving and living in poverty in a rat infested basement. Kozlik gets bit by a rat and becomes sick. Just then, Dunno gets a job as a dog nanny for a rich woman, Mrs Minoga (\"lamprey\"), and makes enough money for a doctor for Kozlik who slowly recovers, but Mrs. Minoga finds out that Dunno took her dogs to the rat infested basement and fires him. Dunno and Kozlik then end up living on the street. Since Kozlik has lost his hat and Dunno lost his shoes they are breaking the law and get sent to Fool's Island which has a toxic atmosphere that turns all the people there into sheep which are then sheared for their wool.\n\nLater Dunno's friends come to Moon with giant seeds, which results in elimination of poverty and establishment of a communism-like economical system and saves Dunno and Kozlik from Fool's Island.\n\nNamed for its abundance of flowers, all streets are named after flowers as well. The Flower City is located by the Cucumber River, on the shore of which many cucumbers grow. Here boy-shorties and girl-shorties live together, but often have trouble getting along.\n\nNamed for its abundance of trees, only girl-shorties live here.\n\nNamed for its abundance of decorative kites, only boy-shorties live here.\n\nNamed for its perpetually sunny weather, it is a shorty utopia noted for its incredible technological advances.\n\nNames of Moon dwellers and Moon cities resemble English, German, Italian and Spanish words amalgamated with Russian roots, e.g. Davilon (from \"давить\" — to suppress and \"Вавилон\" — Babylon), Grabenberg (from \"грабить\" — to rob and \"…berg\" — a typical German-like toponym), Brekhenville (from \"брехать\" — to lie or to bark (slang) and \"…ville\" — typical French-like toponym), Los Svinos (from \"свинья\" — a pig and \"Los..\" — a typical Spanish-like toponym prefix, e.g. \"Los Angeles\") etc.\n\nMillionaires:\n\nPolice and justice (whose names share the same suffix):\n\nThieves:\n\nOther citizens:\n\nPeasants\n\n\nAn important characteristic of the Dunno trilogy is its heavily didactic nature. Nosov describes this as an effort to teach \"honesty, bravery, camaraderie, willpower, and persistence\" and discourage \"jealousy, cowardice, mendacity, arrogance, and effrontery.\" Strong political undertones are also present. In addition to general egalitarianism and feminism, communist tendencies dominate the works. The first book takes the reader into a typical Soviet-like town, the second into a communist utopia, and the third into a capitalistic satire. Nosov's captivating and humorous literary style has made his ideologies accessible to children and adults alike.\n\nAt the same time, the Canadian anthropologist and critique of civilization and education Layla AbdelRahim emphasizes the anti-disciplinary and anti-totalitarian aspect of the Dunno trilogy.\n\nBehind Dunno's apparent ignorance lies the exploring spirit that prefers learning through its own experience rather than acquiring institutionalized knowledge - in this regard Nosov points out that in everyday tasks Dunno succeeds perfectly. Dunno's encounters with Pillman and Doono - who knows everything - reveal the oppressive nature of medical and scientific authority.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5128080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5128080", "title": "Emblem of Thailand", "text": "Emblem of Thailand\n\nThe national emblem of Thailand () is called the Phra Khrut Pha (RTGS transcription; ; \"Garuda as the vehicle\" (of Vishnu)). The Garuda was officially adopted as the national emblem by King Vajiravudh (Rama VI) in 1911. However, the mythical creature had been used as a symbol of royalty in Thailand for centuries. The Garuda is depicted on seals, which are used by the King of Thailand and the Government of Thailand to authenticate official documents and as its primary emblem.\n\nThe Garuda is a mythological beast of the Hindu and Buddhist tradition. According to Hindu mythology, the Garuda is the vahana (vehicle) of the god Vishnu (more commonly known in Thailand as Narayana). The ancient kings of Thailand believed in divine kingship, and considered themselves the incarnation of the god Narayana. Thus, the Garuda came to symbolise the divine power and authority of the king.\n\nThe Garuda also features in the national emblem of Indonesia and the emblem of the city of Ulaanbaatar (the capital of Mongolia).\n\nThe Garuda is a birdlike mythological beast of the Hindu and Buddhist tradition. According to mythology, the Garuda is a large hybrid half-man and half-bird creature. The Garuda is often depicted in art as having the head, beak, wings and talons of an eagle, while his torso is like that of a human man. In the book \"Traiphum Phra Ruang\", a Thai Buddhist literary work composed in the 14th century, he is described as having a body that was 150 yojanas across (1 yojana equivalent to 1.6 kilometres), his left and right wings 150 yojanas each, his tail 60 yojanas long, his neck 30 yojanas, his beak 90 yojanas and his talons 12 yojanas each.\n\nThe Garuda's physical strength and martial prowess is recounted in the Sanskrit Puranas. In these stories he is described as the most powerful of all the winged-creatures and as such is regarded as the king of all the birds. In Buddhist literature, the Garuda lives in the legendary Himavanta forest and is regarded as semi-divine or supernatural. In the Buddhist tradition the emphasis is put on the Garuda's deeds, which portray him as a righteous and merciful being.\n\nAccording to the Mahabharata, the Garuda was so powerful that no god could defeat him in battle, eventually the Hindu god Vishnu intervened. Impressed with his abilities, Vishnu made the Garuda immortal and promised him a higher seat than that of his own. Henceforth, the Garuda became the 'vahana' or vehicle of Vishnu and was allowed to sit atop the god's flagpole as a reward.\n\nThe Garuda's relationship with Vishnu or Narayana is especially significant. The doctrine of ancient Thai kingship was heavily influenced by those of India. Accordingly, the king was nothing less than an 'avatar' or incarnation of god, just as King Rama of the epic Ramayana was the incarnation of Narayana. Thus, the god Narayana and the Garuda became the accepted symbol of divine and sacred kingship in ancient Thailand.\n\nDuring the Ayutthaya Kingdom (1350–1767), the king had in his possession several seals (ตรา, \"tra\") of various designs. These stamp seals were used in the authentication of official documents, especially on those sent out from the central administration to the provinces. They were usually made from carved blocks of ivory. In 1635 a law was passed, regulating the use of each seal for a specific purpose or on specific documents. For example, one was used for the interior administration, one for foreign affairs, one for military affairs and one for dynastic affairs. The king entrusted a seal to an individual minister, with a 'seal secretary', whose role it was to write and seal all documents on his behalf.\n\nThe importance of the seals were attested when another law provided a punishment for the forgery and altering of sealed documents. Simon de la Loubère remarked that the king's own authority was linked to that of his seal. In times of turmoil and dynastic conflict, exceptional importance was attached to the seals, as it was considered that the kingdom's power and authority laid with their custodian. These seals did not survive the sacking and destruction of the city by a Burmese army in 1767.\n\nThe use of royal seals continued in the first four reigns of the Rattanakosin Kingdom (founded in 1782). The Chakri kings would use a personal seal for private letters and four official seals for government business. The four great royal seals (พระราชลัญจกร, \"Phra Ratcha Lanchakon\") included: the \"Maha Ongkan\" (มหาโองการ), the \"Khrut Pha\" (ครุฑพ่าห์), the \"Hongsaphiman\" (หงสพิมาน) and the \"Airaphot\" (ไอราพต) seals. The seals represented four gods: Shiva (known in Thailand as \"Phra Isuan\"), Vishnu (\"Phra Narai\"), Brahma (\"Phra Phrom\") and Indra (\"Phra In\"). The first three belong strictly to the Hindu Trimurti (or Trinity) and the last is a popular king of the gods in Buddhism.\n\nThe four seals are now kept by the Cabinet Secretariat (a department within the Office of the Prime Minister) and are affixed to documents by its officers in different combinations, depending on the purpose of those documents.\n\nThese seals were used until 1873, when a European inspired coat of arms was designated by King Chulalongkorn (Rama V) as the national emblem of Siam. However, the creation of the coat of arms did not entirely replace the old royal seals, for a law promulgated in 1890, stated that the Khrut Pha and the Airaphot seals would continue to be used. In 1893 the King changed his mind and decided that the heraldic arms was too foreign, and ordered his brother the Prince Narisara Nuvadtivongs to design a new seal featuring the Garuda. The Garuda as a symbol has been depicted in royal seals since the times of Ayutthaya. The Prince drew a new seal, which was based on the old design, featuring the god Narayana mounted on the Garuda's back. This version of the seal was used only briefly, as the King was not satisfied with this rendition. Soon after he asked the Prince to redesign the seal depicting the Garuda alone.\n\nIn 1910, King Vajiravudh (Rama VI) decided to abandon the coat of arms altogether and use the Garuda as his primary device. The King asked Phra Dhevabhinimit (a famous artist at the time) to design a new seal, using Prince Naris' drawing of the Garuda, but with an addition of an encirclement of the King's ceremonial name on the outer edge. In 1911 an Act on the Seals of State was passed establishing the Garuda seal as the principal seal \"To be impressed for authentication of the King's signature on all important deeds and documents.\" From then on the Garuda seal named \"Phra Khrut Pha\" became the country's official emblem. King Prajadhipok (Rama VII) continued the use of the seal by replacing his predecessor's name with his own. As King Ananda Mahidol (Rama VIII) was never crowned in a coronation ceremony (and therefore was never bestowed with a regnal name), a seal for his reign was never carved, instead he used his grandfather's (those of King Rama V's) instead. The seal currently in use was made for King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) in 1946, soon after his coronation.\n\nThe Garuda also became the official symbol of the Thai monarchy. In 1910 King Rama VI passed an Act on Flags, which created a new set of the royal standards, in which the Garuda took a prominent place. The standard would fly above various royal residences, signifying the king's presence there. The standard would also fly in front of the king's royal vehicles. In 1996 a royal barge called \"Narai Song Suban\" (เรือพระที่นั่งนารายณ์ทรงสุบรรณ; Narayana on his carrier) was launched, the bow of the barge depicts Narayana mounted on the back of a Garuda.\n\nThe Garuda was also adopted by the Royal Thai Government as its official emblem. The Garuda emblem appears on the letterhead of almost all Thai government documents. The position of the king as the earthly personification of Narayana is symbolised through the use of the Garuda. This symbolism also illustrates the belief that the government (as represented by the Garuda) is the vehicle (or instrument) of the king. The figure of the Garuda is also used as symbol of state property, and as such is displayed on government buildings, title deeds, boundary markers and in the uniforms of the Royal Thai Police and Royal Thai Armed Forces.\n\nKing Rama VI was the first to regulate the use of the Garuda emblem by the government through legislation in 1911. The use of the Garuda emblem was further regulated in an Act on the Garuda Emblem in 1991. A penalty for the misuse and misrepresentation of the Garuda was set to; imprisonment of no longer than one year, or a fine of between three and six thousand Baht, or both. In 2001 the Office of the Prime Minister issued a guideline outlining the use of the emblem. The document recommended that the Garuda should be treated with respect as it is considered a sacred symbol.\n\nAt first there was no fixed rule as to what posture the Garuda should be depicted. King Rama VI eventually selected an attitude for the Garuda called \"Khrut Ram\" (ครุฑรํา) or 'dancing Garuda' (wings displayed and elevated). However no law ever prescribed a specific design for use, as a result several designs are in use by various government departments.\n\nPrivate entities such as businesses may be granted permission to use and display the Garuda emblem. Deserving firms, such those of good standing, could apply for a Royal warrant of appointment from the king through the Bureau of the Royal Household or the Prime Minister. Once permission is given the firm is then allowed to display a \"Tra Tang Hang\" (ตราตั้งห้าง) or store standing emblem, which is a large sculpture of the Garuda, on all of their business premises. Receiving a Royal warrant is considered a great honour and a mark of distinction for any Thai company.\n\nThe Garuda sculpture depicts the beast adorned with a golden crown and regalia, wearing a robe of blue and green, with wings outstreched. Underneath the figure is a ribbon with the phrase \"By Royal Assent\" (โดยได้รับพระบรมราชานุญาต). Previously a sculpture of the royal arms was displayed during the reign of King Rama V, these were replaced with the Garuda in 1911.\n\nFrom 1873 to 1910, a heraldic style coat of arms (ตราอาร์ม, \"Tra Arms\") became the national emblem of Siam (renamed Thailand in 1939). The Western-style coat of arms was created at the command of King Rama V. The king ordered his cousin Prince Pravij Jumsai to design the arms for him. The armorial emblem contains almost all the elements of a European coat of arms; however, all the components of the emblem are traditional Thai royal symbols. The emblem is called the \"Phra Ratcha Lanchakon Pracham Phaen Din Sayam\" (พระราชลัญจกรประจำแผ่นดินสยาม).\n\nThe escutcheon or shield, is divided into three quadrants. The first (chief) quadrant depicts an Airavata on a yellow field. This quadrant represents the Thai heartland, the three heads of the elephant represents its northern, central and southern regions. The lower left quadrant (dexter base) depicts a white elephant on a red field. This quadrant represents the Laotian suzerainty (the symbol comes for its native name \"Lan Xang\", land of a million elephants). The lower right quadrant (sinister base) depicts two-crossed krises (one with and one without a scabbard) on a pink field, this represents the Malay (Perlis, Kedah, Kelantan and Terengganu) suzerainty in the south.\n\nAbove the shield is the symbol representing the Chakri dynasty, a disc and a trident (Chakra and the Trisula). The shield is then surrounded by the chain of the Order of the Nine Gems (representing Buddhism) with a chain and pendant from the Order of Chula Chom Klao (featuring a portrait of King Rama V).\n\nThe arms contains all the six Royal regalia of Thailand. The shield is crowned by the Great Crown of Victory, with a rays of light emitting from the top. Besides the shield are two seven-tiered Royal umbrellas of state. Crossed behind the shield is the Sword of Victory to the left and the Royal staff to the right. In front of them are the Royal fan and flywhisk (to the right and left, respectively). And finally on the compartment, a golden multi-layered royal seat, are the Royal slippers.\n\nThe motto is in the Pali language written in Thai script: \"สพฺเพสํ สงฺฆภูตานํ สามคฺคี วุฑฺฒิ สาธิกา\" (\"Sabbesaṃ saṅghabhūtānaṃ sāmaggī vuḍḍhi sādhikā\") meaning \"Unity brings happiness\". The supporters of the arms are two mythical creatures. To the left of the shield (dexter) is an elephant lion (a lion with a trunk) or a \"Gajasiha\" (คชสีห์). To the right of the shield (sinister) is the king of the lions, the \"Rajasiha\" (ราชสีห์). The two supporters represents the two ancient departments of Kalahom (Gajasiha) and Mahatthai (Rajasiha). Kalahom was the department of the Military and the south, while Mahatthai was department of the civil service and the north. The mantle around the arms is the cloak of the Order of Chula Chom Klao, tied with pink ribbons (pink being the colour of Tuesday, the day of King Rama V's birth).\n\nToday the coat of arms is still used as the cap-badge of the Royal Thai Police and is the official symbol of the Chulachomklao Royal Military Academy. The Courts of Justice and the Supreme Court of Justice also uses the arms as its official seal.\n\nIn 1782, King Buddha Yodfa Chulaloke (Rama I) established the Chakri dynasty with a new capital city at Bangkok. A symbol representing the new dynasty was created, featuring two intertwined weapons, the Chakra (a throwing disc) and the Trisula (a trident). The weapons are derived from an official title; \"Chao Phraya Chakri\", that King Rama I held from 1770 to 1778. The title was usually given to the kingdom's greatest warlord. The word \"Chakri\" (จักรี) in Sanskrit means: 'The Wielder of the Discus'. The Chakra and Trisula according to tradition are the divine weapons of the gods Vishnu (or Narayana) and Shiva, respectively.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "638348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=638348", "title": "Fiction based on World War I", "text": "Fiction based on World War I\n\nWorld War I was never quite so fertile a topic as World War II for American fiction, but there were nevertheless a large number of fictional works created about it in Europe, Canada, and Australia. Many war novels, however, have fallen out of print since their original. Numerous scholarly studies have covered the major fictional authors and writings.\n\n\n\n•\"Darcy's Hope ~ Beauty from Ashes\" (Ginger Monette)\n•\"Darcy's Hope at Donwell Abbey\" (Ginger Monette)\n\n\n\nSeveral entire genres grew out of the disillusionment and disappointment of World War I. The hard-boiled detective novels of the 1920s featured bitter veteran protagonists. The horror stories of H. P. Lovecraft after the war showed a new sense of nihilism and despair in the face of an uncaring, chaotic cosmos, very unlike his more conventional horror before the war.\n"}
{"id": "44721606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44721606", "title": "Francesc Masriera", "text": "Francesc Masriera\n\nFrancesc Masriera i Manovens (21 October 1842, Barcelona - 15 March 1902, Barcelona) was a Catalonian figure painter and goldsmith who was influenced by Orientalism.\n\nHe was born into a family of painters, set designers and silversmiths and began his artistic training in his father's workshop. When he was only thirteen, he went to Geneva to learn the techniques for painting on enamel. In 1857, he and his brother Josep (who would also become a well-known painter) were apprenticed in the workshop of , a professor at the Escola de la Llotja, followed in 1865 by a trip to London and Paris, where they may have briefly worked in the studios of Alexandre Cabanel.\n\nHe opened his first studio in 1871 and participated in the \"Exposició General Catalana\". The following year, he returned to Paris alone and established contact with Goupil & cie, one of the most important art dealerships at that time. He was awarded second prize at the National Exhibition of Fine Arts in 1878 with his painting \"La esclava\" (The Slave), which was later purchased by King Alfonso XII. In 1889, he was awarded a medal at the Exposition Universelle. For most of his life, he was active in the family jewelry business, \"Masriera y Hijos\" (later, \"Hermanos Masrieras\").\n\nBetween 1882 and 1884, he and Josep built an elaborate workshop on Bailen Street, modeled after the ancient Temple of Augustus on Mont Tàber. It was designed by Josep Vilaseca i Casanovas. Flanking the entrance were statues of Eduardo Rosales and Marià Fortuny, created by . The Masriera's combined art collections were kept there and it became a major cultural center, featuring dramatic performances as well as art shows. In 1932, it became the Teatre Studium and was later connected to the adjoining buildings. It is now a residence for the nuns of the \"Petita Companyia del Cor Eucarístic de Jesús\".\n\nAs a jeweler, he was well known for his use of Plique-à-jour, a notoriously difficult technique. He was also an amateur playwright and a regular contributor to a weekly \"magazine\", \"El Recuerdo\", created by his brother Josep and his friends, but never actually published.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5402377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5402377", "title": "Garden tourism", "text": "Garden tourism\n\nGarden tourism is a type of niche tourism involving visits or travel to botanical gardens and places which are significant in the history of gardening. Garden tourists often travel individually in countries with which they are familiar but often prefer to join organized garden tours in countries where they might experience difficulties with language, travel or finding accommodation in the vicinity of the garden. \nIn the year 2000 the Alhambra and the Taj Mahal both received over 2 million visitors. This poses problems for the landscape manager.\n\nThe list of famous gardens which attract garden tourists from afar includes:\n\nDespite its popularity, garden tourism remains a niche commercial enterprise. Throughout the world, there are a limited number of boutique tour operators offering guided tours to the public. \n\nInitially, the garden tour in England and Wales involves private gardens and gardens that does not accept visitors regularly under the National Gardens Scheme, when \"Gardens of England and Wales Open for Charity\" (the 'Yellow Book') served as a guide book for those seeking to visit gardens in England and Wales. The first issue of the Yellow Book was published as a supplement to a British magazine \"Country Life\" in 1931, after Elsie Wagg of an institution serving for district nursing came up with the basic idea of National Gardens Scheme, in which a charity and garden tour was combined when gardening was quite popular in the UK.\n\nThe movement to open gardens for charity spread to private gardens when it was announced in 1927, and owners of such gardens agreed to collect 1 Shiring fee from each visitors that they donated to the charity. 609 such gardens raised £8,000 and in 1928 the institution renames to The Queen's Institute of District Nursing (\"The Queen's Nursing Institute\" of later day). With the publication of the first Yellow Book, there were 1,000 gardens to participate in the Scheme, and in 2015 they have donated £4.5 million since 1927. Those owners of private gardens sometimes donated to those charities they choose, amounting to £40,000.\n\nAs the garden tour expanded since 1948 when the National Gardens Scheme involved the National Trust: while National Trust offered important gardens for garden tours which they have restored and conserved, and number of visitors increased. The Queen's Institute of District Nursing offered them funds which in tern encouraged the Trust to work on additional garden projects. It was in 2013 when the Yellow Page was officially renamed as \"Gardens To Visit\".\n\nMichel de Montaigne was one of the earliest garden tourists to record his impressions of gardens (c1580). \nJohn Evelyn also recorded his visits to gardens in France and Italy, as did Fynes Moryson. Maggie Campbell-Culver wrote a biography of John Evelyn as she sourced from woods and gardens Evelyn took steps in, and described trees from oak as an Evelyn's symbol to evergreens he favored the most.\n\nAt the start of the 21st century, with a history of over 100 years of garden tours, Britain had the largest number of gardens open to the public for tourist visits: in 2013, 3,700 gardens are listed in \"Gardens of England and Wales Open for Charity\", when the Yellow 3,500 gardens are listed in \"Gardens of England and Wales Open for Charity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "533149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533149", "title": "Head coach", "text": "Head coach\n\nA head coach, senior coach, or manager is a professional at training and developing athletes. They typically hold a more public profile and are paid more than other coaches. In some sports, the head coach is instead called the \"manager\", as in association football and professional baseball. In other sports such as Australian rules football, the head coach is generally termed a senior coach.\n\nOther coaches are usually subordinate to the head coach, often in offensive positions or defensive positions, and occasionally proceeding down into individualized position coaches.\n\nHead coaches in American football have different responsibilities depending on what level of the sport they are coaching.\n\nThe head coach has a much more complete hold on the intricacies of the team. He may have to perform the duties of a defensive or offensive coordinator.\n\nOften, high school head coaches have to do more work off the field than on. It is important that head coaches in high school hire a competent and proactive coaching staff because when the head coach is pulled away from practice then he must be confident that his team is in good hands with his other coaches and staff. One of the most difficult issues that head coaches must deal with off of the field is the parent, although many coaches do not allow parental interactions in many cases. He must be able to handle any issues that parents may have with the way that the head coach is running the program, all along while staying professional and not being demeaning. Furthermore, a high school's head football coach often serves as his school's Athletic Coordinator or Director, which adds even further responsibilities to his job. In some jurisdictions, a high school head coach must also have a paying job within the school, almost always as a teacher.\n\nOne of the major features of head coaching in college football is the high turnover rate for jobs. With few exceptions (notable ones including Joe Paterno, Tom Osborne, Bill Snyder, Frank Beamer, Bo Schembechler, Woody Hayes, Bobby Bowden, Darrell Royal, and LaVell Edwards) college coaches often routinely change jobs, rarely staying at a school for more than a decade. Some coaches have been known to leave a school and then return to the program after a period of time.\n\nMany head coaches at the college level have a paid staff and as such are more free to concentrate on the overall aspect of the team rather than dealing with the nuances of training regimens and such.\n\nUnlike head coaches at other levels, college coaching staffs are solely responsible for the composition and development of players on the team. The ability to recruit and develop top players plays a major role in success at this level.\n\nA college coach acts as the face of a team, at an age when many young players do not wish to be hounded by media. They are often called upon to discuss off-the-field incidents such as rule infractions or player antics. Sometimes, the coach becomes a celebrity in his own right, e.g., Lou Holtz.\n\nAt the end of the year there are numerous college football coach of the year awards given out. Usually the awards all go to the same coach but there are some discrepancies. Major annual coaching honors include the Home Depot Coach of the Year, The Liberty Mutual Coach of the Year Award, the Associated Press College Football Coach of the Year Award, and The Paul 'Bear' Bryant Award.\n\nAt the professional level, coaches may work for millions of dollars a year. Since he or she does not have to travel the country recruiting high school players, the head coach at the pro level has much more time to devote to tactics and playbooks, which are coordinated with staff paid even more than at the college level. They typically report to the General Manager. Head coaching, due to the lack of job security and long hours, is a very stressful job. Since the money is good at high levels and firings are common, many coaches retire in their early fifties.\n\nMany factors are part of NFL coaches' contracts. These involve the NFL's $11 billion as the highest revenue sport, topping the Major League Baseball's (MLB) $7 billion. The NFL's coaches are the highest-paid professional coaches with professional football topping the list in Forbes' highest-paid sports coaches. Bill Belichick is in the #1 spot for the second year in a row with no MLB or National Hockey League coaches making the list.\n\nAnother major element of NFL coaches' contracts, negotiated between individual coaches and NFL \"teams\"/owners, are NFL demanded provisions in the coaches employment contracts, that authorize the employing NFL teams to withhold part of a coach's salary when league operations are suspended, such as lockouts or television contract negotiations.\n\nThe average salary for a head coach in the National football League is $6.45 million a year.\n\nIn association football, a head coach has the same responsibilities as in any other sport. A head coach has an option to pick his own coaching staff.\n\nIn some countries there is a position of \"senior coach\" who acts as the first assistant of the head coach or runs a junior squad in the club. In the absence of a head coach, a senior coach temporarily fulfills his role as interim (see Caretaker manager).\n\nThere is the UEFA Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Coaching Qualifications that has three levels: Pro, A, and B.\n\nIn Australian rules football the head coach or senior coach is responsible for development and implementing an appropriate training program to the players so that they ensure they perform on game day. The senior coach in AFL also has to be responsible for the rotations and team line up for the games. A senior coach in AFL is not the only coach involved in making the team operate, in AFL teams there are up to five different coaches that all have different responsibilities, for example, there is a forward, midfield and defence coach, these coaches focus on the particular positions on the ground, and they work with the particular players who play in these positions.\n\nRugby football union clubs have the option of either a director of rugby (DoR), a head coach, or both. There is as yet no consensus on what either role entails, as the responsibilities vary between clubs. Generally, if a club decides on employing one of either a DoR or a head coach, they will take more responsibility than if the club employs for both roles. It has been proposed that the DoR is a club-wide position, providing and ensuring the club is working towards a shared philosophy from youth teams through to senior teams. Whereas, a head coach is focused purely on planning and implementing coaching for the first team; alongside a coaching team consisting of a mixture of defence, attack, forwards, backs, skills and strength and conditioning coaches.\n\n"}
{"id": "3615698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3615698", "title": "ISO 639-6", "text": "ISO 639-6\n\nISO 639-6, \"Codes for the representation of names of languages — Part 6: Alpha-4 code for comprehensive coverage of language variants\", was a proposed international standard in the ISO 639 series, developed by ISO/TC 37/SC 2 (International Organization for Standardization, Technical Committee 37, Subcommittee 2: \"Terminographical and lexicographical working methods\"). It contained four-letter codes that denote variants of languages and language families. This allowed one to differentiate between, for example, historical (codice_1) versus revived (codice_2) Manx, while ISO 639-3 only includes codice_3 for Manx.\n\nThe data supporting ISO 639-6 was researched and compiled by the ISO's registration authority GeoLang. ISO 639-6 was published on 17November 2009, and withdrawn on 25November 2014. The database also links each language and family to its principal ancestor, allowing the user to follow the classification of various languages. For example, the codes and ancestry of English is given below:\n\nThe database differentiates between different scripts used for the same language. For example, a number of different scripts were used in the Ottoman Empire and as a result the Ottoman Turkish language has been categorized as follows: \n\n"}
{"id": "12338280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12338280", "title": "Interracial personals", "text": "Interracial personals\n\nInterracial personals or Interracial personal ads are personal advertisements intended to find romantic partners or friends of other races.\n\nInterracial personals are a fast-growing niche among internet dating sites. A recent survey found that most users of social network services thought these sites were mildly offensive, although some felt that they are representative of the diversity of the human race and found nothing objectionable about it.\n\nSurveys indicate that many people are interested in dating or marrying people of other races. An online survey conducted in October 2001 found that 49% of students said they had dated someone of a different race. Thirty-eight percent said they hadn't, but might. According to one news report, there were 117,000 black wife-white husband couples in the United States in 2006, an increase from 95,000 such couples in 2000. In 1960, before the U.S. Supreme Court overturned laws against mixed marriages, there were only 26,000 black wife-white husband couples.\n\nOnline interracial dating services assist such people by making it easier for them to find other people interested in interracial relationships. The use of a site with interracial personals, as opposed to a general internet dating site, can save a person considerable time and effort. A recent study of Google AdSense ads that appeared on interracial dating sites indicated that many of the larger dating sites are trying to cater to this market as well, and some even claim to be interracial dating sites, but users often find themselves sifting through profiles on the major sites such as Match.com or Yahoo! Personals trying to find people who are looking to date outside their race.\n\nSome online dating services allow people to register for free, but making full use of the services available on the site often requires a monthly fee. Some users have complained that the rules concerning fees are not clear, or that employees of the services fraudulently \"flirt\" with users as their subscriptions are about to end, encouraging them to renew.\n"}
{"id": "2428804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2428804", "title": "Invective", "text": "Invective\n\nInvective (from Middle English \"invectif\", or Old French and Late Latin \"invectus\") is abusive, reproachful, or venomous language used to express blame or censure; or, a form of rude expression or discourse intended to offend or hurt; vituperation, or deeply seated ill will, vitriol. The Latin adjective \"invectivus\" means 'scolding.'\n\nThe \"genre of invective\" or \"invective (genre)\" or \"vituperatio\" in Latin is a form of classical libel used in Greek and Roman polemical verse as well as in prose, but its primary context is rhetoric.\n\nThe rhetorical genre of \"vituperatio\" belongs to the \"genus demonstrativum\", which is composed by the praise and blame.\n\nDuring the Roman Republic, personal invectives and character assassination were widely used during the forensic speeches as well as orations. Cicero made a large use of the invectives against his political foes such as Clodius, Catilina (Catilinarian speeches) or Mark Antony (Philippics). The commonly charges are avarice, cupidity, cowardice, effeminacy, drunkenness, low writing and speaking skills, luxury, disapproved sexual habits, tyrannical behaviour, etc.\n\nBetween 44 BC and 30 BC, the invective became a tool during the propaganda war between Octavian and Mark Antony. Among many other slanders, Mark Antony was accused to have married a foreign queen Cleopatra, to be the submissive subject of her and to have lose his Roman identity. According to this propaganda, Cleopatra would plan to invade Italia. This propaganda before the battle of Actium in 31 BC permits to Octavian to present his campaign as a legitimate war for the safe of the Roman Republic.\n\nThe preferred literary term for invective of the Renaissance is libel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18375725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18375725", "title": "Kashgartsy", "text": "Kashgartsy\n\nThe Kashgartsy or Kashgars were a group of Uigurs who migrated from Kashgar to the Russian Empire during the 18th and 19th Centuries. Prior to the 1930s they were classed as a separate ethnic group. The 1926 census counted 13,010 Kashgars in the Soviet Union.\n\nDespite their reclassification, there were 18 people who self reported being Kashgars in the 2002 Census of Russia. However, since most of the Kashgars had initially migrated to Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, this low number in Russia tells us little about how most Kashgars self-identify.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899323", "title": "Kolomyjka", "text": "Kolomyjka\n\nThe kolomyjka (, ; also referred to as kolomeyka or kolomeike) is a Hutsul music genre that combines a fast paced folk dance and comedic rhymed verses. It also refers to a type of performance dance developed by the Ukrainian diaspora in North America.\n\nIt originated in the eastern Galician (Modern West Ukrainian) town of Kolomyia (Hutsulshchyna). It was historically popular among the Ukrainians and Poles, and is also known in northeastern Slovenia (as the \"kalamajka\").\n\nKolomyjkas are still danced in Ukraine, as a tradition on certain holidays, during festivities, or simply for fun. In Ukraine's rural west, they are popular dances for weddings.\n\nIn North America, the kolomyjka is primarily a social dance. Participants form a circle, joining hands. The dance begins with the participants turning the circle, usually counterclockwise, then clockwise, or by forming a spiral. Further into the dance soloists will perform in the centre of the circle.\n\nAccording to Andriy Nahachewsky, a former professional stage dancer, Director of the Kule Centre for Ukrainian and Canadian Folklore, and Huculak Chair of Ukrainian Culture and Ethnography at the University of Alberta, kolomyjky as practised in Canada are a separate genre of dance from what is known in Ukraine. The diasporic kolomyjka developed from the old country folk dance but with a prevailing influence from stage dancing. Originating in Western Canada in the 1950s and 60s, the kolomyjka is considered the highlight of Ukrainian weddings and dances in Canada: when any attendees who have experience as stage dancers perform their favourite \"tricks\" involving lifts, spins, high kicks, even building human pyramids. It is a chance for individuals and groups to \"show off\" their most impressive or dangerous moves so as to entertain the audience and win approval. Nahachewsky suggests that despite being a relatively new tradition the Canadian kolomyjka is an important symbol of Ukrainian culture in Canada and that the dynamism of this type of Ukrainian dance helps to interest young people in Canada in retaining Ukrainian culture.\n\n\nRelated dances:\n\n"}
{"id": "13791185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13791185", "title": "Line break (poetry)", "text": "Line break (poetry)\n\nA line break in poetry is the termination of the line of a poem, and the beginning of a new line.\n\nIn the standard conventions of Western literature, the line break is usually but not always at the left margin. Line breaks may occur mid-clause, creating enjambment, a term that literally means 'to straddle'. Enjambment \"tend[s] to increase the pace of the poem\", whereas end-stopped lines, which are lines that break on caesuras (thought-pauses often represented by Ellipsis), emphasize these silences and slow the poem down.\n\nLine breaks may also serve to signal a change of movement or to suppress or highlight certain internal features of the poem, such as a rhyme or slant rhyme.\n\nLine breaks can be a source of dynamism, providing a method by which poetic forms imbue their contents with intensities and corollary meanings that would not have been possible to the same degree in other forms of text.\n\nAn example may be taken from E.E. Cummings' poem 'old age sticks'\n\nThe line break within 'must/n't' allows a double reading of the word as both 'must' and 'mustn't', whereby the reader is made aware that old age both enjoins and forbids the activities of youth. At the same time, the line break subverts 'mustn't': the forbidding of a certain activity—in the poem's context, the moral control the old try to enforce upon the young—only serves to make that activity more enticing.\n\nWhile Cummings's line breaks are used in a poetic form that is intended to be appreciated through a visual, printed medium, line breaks are also present in poems predating the advent of printing.\n\nExamples are to be found, for instance, in Shakespeare's sonnets; however, some Early Modernists would argue that such an effect wasn't consciously intended by Shakespeare to be read as line breaks, which arise from the advent of printing as a method of distribution, which has a contextual effect upon that which is to be distributed. Here are two examples of this technique operating in different ways in Shakespeare's \"Cymbeline\":\n\nIn the first example, the line break between the last two lines \"cuts\" them apart, emphasizing the cutting off of the head:\n\nIn the second example, the text before the line break retains a meaning in isolation from the contents of the new line. This meaning is encountered by the reader before it being modified by the text after the line break, which clarifies that, instead of \"I, as a person, as a mind, am 'absolute,'\" it 'really' means: \"I am absolutely sure it was Cloten\":\n\nSome interpreters would argue that the 'first' meaning is preserved in the realm of the metatext.\n\nWhere the lines are broken in relation to the ideas in the poem it affects the feeling of reading the poetry. For example, the feeling may be jagged or startling versus soothing and natural, which can be used to reinforce or contrast the ideas in the poem. Lines are often broken between words, but there is certainly a great deal of poetry where at least some of the lines are broken in the middles of words: this can be a device for achieving inventive rhyme schemes.\n\nIn general, line breaks divide the poetry into smaller units called lines, (this is a modernisation of the term verse) which are often interpreted in terms of their self-contained meanings and aesthetic values: hence the term \"good line\". Line breaks, indentations, and the lengths of individual words determine the visual shape of the poetry on the page, which is a common aspect of poetry but never the sole purpose of a line break. A dropped line is a line broken into two parts, in which the second part is indented to remain visually sequential through spacing. In metric poetry, the places where the lines are broken are determined by the decision to have the lines composed from specific numbers of syllables.\n\nProse poetry is poetry without line breaks in accordance to paragraph structure as opposed to stanza. Enjambment is a line break in the middle of a sentence, phrase or clause, or one that offers internal (sub)text or rhythmically jars for added emphasis. Alternation between enjambment and end-stopped lines is characteristic of some complex and well composed poetry, such as in Milton's \"Paradise Lost\".\n\nA new line can begin with a lowercase or capital letter. New lines beginning with lowercase letters vaguely correspond with the shift from earlier to later poetry: for example, the poet John Ashbery usually begins his lines with capital letters prior to his 1991 book-length poem \"Flow-Chart\", whereas in and after \"Flow-Chart\" he almost invariably begins lines with lowercase letters unless the beginning of the line is also the beginning of a new sentence. There is, however, some much earlier poetry where new lines begin with lowercase letters.\n\nBeginning a line with an uppercase letter when the beginning of the line does \"not\" coincide with the beginning of a new sentence is referred to by some as \"majusculation\". (this is an invented term derived from majuscule). \nThe correct term is a coroneted verse.\n\nIn T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land, where ambiguity abounds, a line break in the opening (\"ll\". 5–7) starts things off.\n\nBecause the lines start with capitalized letters, Eliot could be saying \"Earth\" as the planet or \"earth\" as the soil.\n\n"}
{"id": "1139538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139538", "title": "List of chairs", "text": "List of chairs\n\nThe following is a partial list of chair types, with internal or external cross-references about most of the chairs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52877755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52877755", "title": "List of college sports team names and mascots derived from indigenous peoples", "text": "List of college sports team names and mascots derived from indigenous peoples\n\nThe use of terms and images referring to Native Americans/First Nations as the name or mascot for a sports team is a topic of public controversy in the United States and in Canada. The documents most often cited to justify the trend for change are an advisory opinion by the United States Commission on Civil Rights in 2001 and a resolution by the American Psychological Association in 2005. Both support the views of Native American organizations and individuals that such mascots maintain harmful stereotypes that are discriminatory and cause harm by distorting the past and preventing understanding of Native American/First Nations peoples in the present. Such practices are seen as particularly harmful in schools and universities, which have the a stated purpose of promoting ethnic diversity and inclusion. This view lead to the NCAA adopting a policy to eliminate \"hostile and abusive\" names and mascots. However some changes began in the 1970s in response to the Native American civil rights movement, lead by the National Congress of American Indians.\n\nDefenders of the current usage often state their intention to honor Native Americans by referring to positive traits, such as fighting spirit and being aggressive, brave, stoic, dedicated, and proud; while opponents see these traits as being based upon stereotypes of Native Americans as savages. Supporters also claim that the issue is not important, being only about sports, and that the opposition is nothing more than \"political correctness\", which change advocates argue ignores the extensive evidence of harmful effects of stereotypes and bias.\n\nThe Department of Educational Foundations at the University of Saskatchewan passed a resolution calling for the retirement of all school mascots and logos that depict First Nations people.\n\nThere is an ongoing debate regarding the McGill University \"Redmen\", which alumni say originated as a reference to the school colors and the Celtic heritage of its founder, only later to be associated with First Nation's names and imagery which have been removed since the 1990s. Others, including indigenous students and Washington State University professor C. Richard King, argue that the name itself is generally used as a disparaging term for indigenous peoples which reinforces stereotypes and white settler culture.\n\nSeneca College in Toronto, Ontario changed from the Braves to \"The Sting\" in 2000.\n\nIn 2005 the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) distributed a \"self evaluation\" to 31 colleges for teams to examine the use of potentially offensive imagery with their mascot choice. Subsequently, 19 teams were cited as having potentially \"hostile or abusive\" names, mascots, or images, that would be banned from displaying them during post-season play, and prohibited from hosting tournaments.\n\nSchools that removed all references to Native American culture or were deemed not to have references to Native American culture as part of their athletics programs: \n\nSchools granted waivers to retain their nicknames after gaining support from those respective tribes:\n\nThe NCAA did not cite San Diego State University, San Diego, California as \"hostile and abusive\" due to the Aztec people having no modern representatives. However the Aztec Warrior mascot, whose performance including human sacrifice, has drawn criticism. A SDSU professor of American Indian Studies states that the mascot teaches the mistaken idea that Aztecs were a local tribe rather than living in Mexico 1,000 miles from San Diego. In April, 2017 the university's Associated Students council rejected a resolution to retire the mascot introduced by the Native American Student Association.\n"}
{"id": "3810742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810742", "title": "List of national symbols of Iran", "text": "List of national symbols of Iran\n\nSome of the Iranian national symbols are listed as below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49965306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49965306", "title": "List of observances set by the Hebrew calendar", "text": "List of observances set by the Hebrew calendar\n\nAll observances begin at sunset the day prior to the Gregorian date listed unless otherwise noted, and end on nightfall of the date in question; which is defined as the appearance of three stars in the sky. On leap years (which occur every 2–3 years) an extra month; Adar II, is added and certain holidays move accordingly, and it is mentioned in the notes section. All fasts other than Yom Kippur and Tisha b'Av begin at dawn of the day listed.\n\nYom tov for the Three Pilgrimage Festivals (Pesach, Shavuot, and Sukkot) is observed for 1 day in Israel and in Reform and most Reconstructionist communities around the world, and is observed for 2 days in Orthodox and most Conservative communities outside Israel, because of \"yom tov sheni shel galuyot\". In the table, these are referred to as 1-day and 2-day communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31713930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31713930", "title": "Maestà (Cimabue)", "text": "Maestà (Cimabue)\n\nThe Maestà is a painting by the Italian artist Cimabue, painted around 1280 and housed in Musée du Louvre of Paris, France.\n\nIt was acquired by the Louvre in 1813, as part of the Napoleonic spoiling of artworks in Italy, together with Giotto's \"Stigmata of St. Francis\", also from San Francesco.\n\nThe work is considered to be from around 1280, thus preceding the \"Santa Trinita Maestà\". It is also stylistically earlier to that work, being painted without pseudo-perspective, and having the angels around the Virgin simply placed one above the other, rather than being spatially arranged. The throne is similar to the \"Maestà\" painted by Cimabue in the Basilica of San Francesco di Assisi (1288–1292).\n\nThis work established a new canon for the Madonna with Child theme, which was subsequently used by other painters, such as Duccio di Buoninsegna in his \"Rucellai Maestà\".\n"}
{"id": "5141993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5141993", "title": "Manchester Craftsmen's Guild", "text": "Manchester Craftsmen's Guild\n\nManchester Craftsmen's Guild (MCG) is a nonprofit art, education, and music organization established in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1968.\n\nCourses include ceramics, photography, digital arts, and painting to over 500 young people each year and 3,400 additional students in the Pittsburgh Public Schools. Ninety percent of the students receive high school diplomas, and eight-five percent of those students enroll in college or some other secondary education. The Guild's programs also include MCG Jazz, MCG Youth, and the Denali Initiative. MCG Jazz's mission is to preserve, present and promote jazz. MCG Youth offers art courses to Pittsburgh public school students. The Denali Initiative is a program that teaches nonprofit executive directors how to develop business and financing plans for social enterprises.\n\nThe organization was conceived by Bill Strickland. In 1987, he expanded MCG with a $7.5 million capital campaign to construct a vocational education and arts center. It includes a 350-seat concert hall, an art gallery, classrooms, and workshops. MCG Jazz hosts concerts and has a recording studio and record label.\n\n"}
{"id": "8537262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8537262", "title": "Marília de Dirceu", "text": "Marília de Dirceu\n\nMarília de Dirceu () is a poetry book written by Luso-Brazilian Neoclassic poet Tomás António Gonzaga. It is divided in three parts — all of them published in different years. The first part, published in 1792, has 33 \"lyres\" (or poems), and they tell mostly about Gonzaga's (using the pen name Dirceu on the book) love by a woman named Marília (who was, in real life, a girlfriend of his, Maria Doroteia Joaquina de Seixas Brandão). The second part, published in 1799, was written when Gonzaga was serving time in Ilha das Cobras because of his involvement with the unsuccessful Minas Conspiracy. Its 38 lyres focus now on Gonzaga's longing for freedom. The third part, published in 1802, has 9 lyres and 13 sonnets, and its authorship is disputed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45185690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45185690", "title": "Mauritian units of measurement", "text": "Mauritian units of measurement\n\nA number of units of measurement were used in Mauritius. The metric system was adopted in 1876, and has been compulsory in Mauritius since 1878.\n\nSystems including old French and British were used.\n\nIn addition to old French and British units, the following were used:\n\n1 cash = 227.11 litre\n\n1 velt = 1/30 cash.\n"}
{"id": "31120858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31120858", "title": "Mendocino County GMO Ban", "text": "Mendocino County GMO Ban\n\nMendocino County, California, was the first jurisdiction in the United States to ban the cultivation, production or distribution of genetically modified organisms (GMOs). The ordinance, entitled Measure H, was passed by referendum on March 2, 2004. Initiated by the group \"GMO Free Mendocino\", the campaign was a highly publicized grassroots effort by local farmers and environmental groups who contend that the potential risks of GMOs to human health and the ecosystem have not yet been fully understood. The measure was met with opposition by several interest groups representing the biotechnology industry, The California Plant Health Association (now the Western Plant Health Association) and CropLife America, a Washington-based consortium whose clients represent some of the largest food distributors in the nation, including Monsanto, DuPont and Dow Chemical. Since the enactment of the ordinance, Mendocino County has been added to an international list of \"GMO free zones.\" Pre-emptive statutes banning local municipalities from such ordinances have now become widespread with adoption in sixteen states.\n\nGMOs are commonly considered to be any organism whose DNA has been modified by human intervention. Agricultural practices, however, have long used selective breeding techniques for the same purpose as modern biotechnology. Researchers now define genetically engineered organisms (GEOs) as those that are produced from a range of recombinant DNA technologies, which introduce a transgene into the genome of a host cell. The most widely practiced method involves the use of bacteria, which are able to penetrate the cell membrane of the host. Other methods include a \"gene gun\" or \"biolistic particle delivery system\". Recombinant DNA technology allows for the creation of synthetic genes with specific traits that have anthropogenic benefits. The term GEOs will be used here to describe organisms produced by the recombinant DNA technology commonly referred to by usage of the term GMOs.\n\nThe geographic and temporal scope of the regulatory debate regarding transgenic organisms and recombinant DNA technology is vast. Environmental risk assessments must weigh unquantifiable long-term risks against high and quantifiable short-term benefits. There is widespread concern amongst environmental groups, organic farmers and the international community that the introduction of transgenic organisms into local ecosystems may cause irreversible loss of biodiversity when the new synthetic strains become predominant. Further concern comes from members of the medical community who warn of the risk that the antibiotics used in the production of many GEOs may give rise to more resistant strains of bacteria. While the scientific community generally acknowledges the possibility of these risks, the scenarios are hard to quantify, particularly in a Risk-Cost Benefit Analysis (RCBA) model commonly used in public policy.\n\nProponents of the technology dispute many of these findings or the significance of the risk factors. They generally contend that the GE strains have no further evolutionary advantage than any other new strain introduced into a local ecosystem and that they behave in the same way. They also cite less need for pesticides than conventional non-organic crops. Opponents, by contrast, adhere to the precautionary principle, which advocates waiting until further study is done and puts the burden of proof on the producer to prove that their productive activities are no threat to the environment or human health before continuing. The precautionary principle has become the foundation of environmental policy for the EU.\n\nThe promulgation of agricultural biotechnology follows a trajectory that began in what is commonly referred to as the \"green revolution\". In the twentieth century, industrial methods were increasingly applied to agriculture for the mass production of monocultures, large tracts of land used for the production of single high yield crops with the use of fertilizers and pesticides. The actual physical problem GEOs seek to address, most commonly, is the destruction of crops from pests. The gradual shift towards monoculture has increased the frequency and severity of pest invasion and infestation because of the lack of agricultural diversity. Many pests that threaten different crops are natural predators to each other, which helps to offset their impacts. When many miles of the same crop are planted, however, it leaves the local habitat more vulnerable to the threat of single pest.\n\nGEOs have brought short-term benefits in the control of pests by having genetically programmed immunities to the pesticides that are produced to be used along with them, such as the well-known post-emergence herbicide Roundup produced by Monsanto. The primary forces that are driving the production of GEOs, however, are social and economic. GEOs are the latest development in the drive to produce higher yields with less inputs, according to the profit maximization model. Proponents of the technology see it as an answer to growing food shortages in the face of rising global population. They also cite potential benefits, such as the creation of more healthy strains of produce, aquaculture or livestock, with higher nutrient content and less fat. Opponents of GEOs, however, argue that world hunger is caused by economic and political dynamics rather than scarcity so regardless of whether the yield is increased, the produce will not to flow through the supply chain to those in need.\n\nAccording to the ordinance, it is \"unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to propagate, cultivate, raise, or grow genetically modified organisms in Mendocino County.\" The measure is careful to define transgenic-organisms as dependent on biotechnology as opposed to traditional methods of selective breeding. It also excludes micro-organisms from the prohibition. The complex geographic and spatial dimensions of the issue are highlighted by the fact that the ordinance only affects unincorporated areas of the county. City, state, federal and tribal lands are exempt from the prohibition and are free to grow and distribute GEOs.\n\nMeasure H uses the traditional regulatory approach as its only policy tool. The policy targets are producers or distributors of genetically engineered organisms. Ostensibly, the farming industry is the stakeholder primarily targeted, though the law affects any person or entity. Due to the recognized inability to limit all GEO propagation within geographical proximity to the unincorporated areas affected by the law, the policy goals are rather to limit the expansion of the biotechnology industry in the county and to make it harder for seed companies to sell GE seed to local farmers. According to Andrew Kimbrall of the Center for Food Safety, who backed the measure stated that local municipalities have \"no alternative but to try to halt\" the spread of GE crops. In this context, the purpose is not to completely eradicate any GEOs in the county but rather to counteract the prevailing trend of the agricultural industry.\n\nThe \"GMO Free Mendocino\" campaign was started by Els Cooperrider, a retired cancer researcher and founding member of \"The Mendocino Organic Network.\" Initially, the coalition sought to enact local legislation requiring the labeling of GEO products. However, since national efforts to push for labeling had been largely unsuccessful it was decided to advocate the prohibition of GEO production and propagation within county limits instead.\n\nMore money was spent on Measure H than any other ballot in Mendocino County’s history. In total, \"No on H\" supporters spent over $700,000, with $600,000 of it coming from Croplife America. The \"Yes on H\" coalition raised $135,000 by the end of the campaign. The measure passed by 57% of the vote and was portrayed in the media as a \"David vs. Goliath\" battle between a small grassroots coalition of community activists and a deep pocketed special interest group in Washington.\n\nMendocino County’s measure H highlights a localized battle of stakeholders over a contentious public policy debate that is international in scope. The organic farming industry is the fastest growing sector of the US agricultural market. It accounts for approximately one third of Mendocino’s agriculture, the majority of which consists of wineries. The organic farming industry in California has been the most organized lobby against GMOs due to concerns about cross-pollination. Patented strains of \"Roundup Ready\" seed, which are resistant to the pesticide \"Roundup\" produced by Monsanto, have been found to disperse onto neighboring farms, creating legal battles over proprietary rights such as the famous test case in the Canadian Supreme Court, Monsanto Canada Inc. v. Schmeiser.\n\nWith a growing demand for organic products in European and Japanese markets, the prospect of cross-pollination is perceived as a significant economic threat to the organic industry. Mendocino’s wine industry was especially concerned about losing Japanese markets and have since used the ordinance as a marketing tool. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has assured organic farmers that they will not lose their certification if contamination occurs. This has not erased the perception that the integrity of their industry and the ecosystems that they are dependent upon are at risk by the gradual introduction of GEOs.\n\nMeasure H’s passing was considered a victory for environmental groups and the local organic farming industry and brought Mendocino international attention. Sharp criticism, however, came from industry insiders who have accepted widespread adoption of GEOs. According to rancher and Mendocino County Farm Bureau Director Peter Bradford, the measure was motivated by \"a fear of science and big corporations\" Nationwide, 90% of the soybean, 73% of corn and 87% of cotton produced in the US come from genetically engineered seed. The largest financial sector of the industry views biotechnology as the natural progression of trade techniques, which have passed adequate safety standards. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and USDA have so far agreed. The FDA drafted new guidelines in 1991 stating that GEOs and non-GEOs were \"substantially equivalent.\"\n\nThe trend towards federal deregulation of GEOs leaves local municipalities facing a much tougher challenge in prohibiting them. Jurisdictional issues bring into question the legal standing of county ordinances regulating GEOs. Federal pre-emption statutes may override them if challenged. GE crops are regulated by the EPA under the pesticide guidelines in FIFRA (Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act) according to which \"…a state shall not impose any requirements for labeling or packaging in addition to or different from those under\" FIFRA. Some legal experts contend that any regulation of GEOs must take place at the federal level because of this statute.\nSince the passage of measure H, counties in California followed Mendocino’s example with eight similar initiatives making it to the ballots. Of the eight counties that voted on anti-GEO initiatives, four passed and four were defeated. In addition, eleven counties passed pro-GEO ordinances banning their prohibition. Table-1 lists the counties and their voting percentages.\n\nIn 2005, state senator Dean Florez attempted to pass a state preemptive bill prohibiting counties from banning GEOs. The bill passed in the assembly but got stalled in the senate where it had previously passed. California remains a challenging regulatory environment for GE producers and the farmers who wish to use their seed. The Federal District Court of Northern California has undergone a protracted regulatory battle with the USDA regarding two crops in particular, GE Alfalfa and GE Sugar Beets. In 2005, the USDA had deregulated Roundup Ready Alfalfa (RRA). Two years later, in response to a lawsuit filed by Earthjustice and the Center for Food Safety, the district court ruled that the deregulation was in violation of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) because an environmental impact statement (EIS) had not been done. In Geertson Farms Inc., et al. v. Mike Johanns, et al., Judge Charles R. Breyer imposed an injunction on planting any further seed.\nIn June 2010, the Supreme Court overturned the injunction, stating that it was unnecessary because the USDA’s deregulation was, in fact, in violation of NEPA and thus there was no legal standing to plant the seed in the first place obviating the need for an injunction. It was ordered that an EIS be done, which was projected to be complete in 2012. Another injunction was ordered by Judge Jeffrey White against the planting of GE sugar beets in August 2010. When it was discovered that GE sugar beets had been planted in September, in violation of the injunction, Judge White ordered the destruction of the crops. It was the first time that GEO crops were ever ordered to be destroyed by a US court. Farmers in the sugar beet industry reported that there was not enough non-GE seed left. The government warned that the US was faced with a potential 20% reduction in sugar production. On February 4, 2011, at the request of Monsanto and a German seed company named KWS, the USDA proceeded with a \"partial deregulation\" that will allow planting to continue until the EIS is complete and a final ruling is made.\n\nLocal environmental activists were dismayed by this decision and took it as a defeat. The partial deregulation requires farmers of GE seed to take measures to prevent cross-pollination. They are not allowed to plant within three miles of non-GE crops, for instance, and they are subject to government inspections. Opponents of the decision contend that these protections will be inadequate. The ruling came the day after a consortium of the nation's largest organic food distributors including Whole Foods, Organic Valley and Stonyfield Farm, agreed to no longer oppose the propagation of RRA and GE crops in general.\n\nAs yet, there is little available data on the outcome of the measure. It has remained on the books and has continued to be enforced within its jurisdictional boundaries. Appropriate measures of evaluation stem from the measure’s stated goals \"The people of Mendocino County wish to protect the county’s agriculture, environment, economy, and private property from genetic pollution by genetically modified organisms.\" This policy goal lacks definition of the term \"genetic pollution\". Taken at face value, from an empirical standpoint, it could be seen as having failed in that GEOs certainly have migrated across jurisdictional boundaries. Many commercial food products contain GEOs, which residents of the county have been buying unknowingly since there are still no federal laws requiring their labeling. GE corn products, in particular, have become ubiquitous as additives in food processing. Furthermore, since the term \"genetic pollution\" is left undefined, even if cross-pollination has occurred, whether nor not it is considered pollution will vary according to the stakeholder.\n\nIn the broader sense of the policy’s purpose as a political tool to impede the advancement of the biotechnology industry and the spread of \"GE crops\" generally, the ensuing nationwide regulatory debate over jurisdictional issues with similar county prohibitions could be seen as a success. Mendocino is now cited internationally as a center of the organic movement and a catalyst for anti-GEO movements that have, in some cases impeded their growth, particularly in California where GE crops have actually been ordered to be destroyed by a federal judge.\n\nMendocino is famous for being a bastion of rural counter-culture where many liberal activists and members of California’s hippie generation led a \"back to the land movement\" during the 1970s. The Measure H campaign reaffirmed these sensibilities and has been studied as an example of \"civic agriculture.\" The agenda-setting phase of the policy cycle was highly localized. Public policy experts and social historians contend that the implications of the \"GMO free Mendocino\" movement were beyond the empirical basis of the ordinance or the larger political debate regarding GEOs.\n\nThe social forces animating the conflict were embedded in localized rural values of stewardship and decentralization. The community’s self conception as a synthesis of its counter-cultural legacy and rural working class ethos fostered a powerful sense of local collective action that was pitted against the perception of top down \"command and control\" of local agriculture by a distant monolithic nexus of multinational power.\n\n"}
{"id": "1452985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452985", "title": "Misumalpan languages", "text": "Misumalpan languages\n\nThe Misumalpan languages (also Misumalpa or Misuluan) are a small family of languages spoken by indigenous peoples on the east coast of Nicaragua and nearby areas. The name \"Misumalpan\" was devised by John Alden Mason and is composed of syllables from the names of the family's three members Miskito, Sumo languages and Matagalpan. It was first recognized by Walter Lehmann in 1920. While all the languages of the Matagalpan branch are now extinct, the Miskito and Sumu languages are alive and well: Miskito has almost 200,000 speakers and serves as a second language for speakers of other Indian languages on the Mosquito Coast. According to Hale, most speakers of Sumu also speak Miskito.\n\nKaufman (1990) finds a connection with Macro-Chibchan to be \"convincing\", but Misumalpan specialist Ken Hale considered a possible connection between Chibchan and Misumalpan to be \"too distant to establish\".. On the other hand, a new research (Jolkesky 2017:45-54) has found compelling evidence linking the Misumalpan language family and the Hokan stock.\n\n\nMiskito became the dominant language of the Mosquito Coast from the late 17th century on, as a result of the people's alliance with the British Empire, which colonized the area. In northeastern Nicaragua, it continues to be adopted by former speakers of Sumo. Its sociolinguistic status is lower than that of the English-based creole of the southeast, and in that region, Miskito seems to be losing ground. Sumo is endangered in most areas where it is found, although some evidence suggests that it was dominant in the region before the ascendancy of Miskito. The Matagalpan languages are long since extinct, and not very well documented.\n\nAll Misumalpan languages share the same phonology, apart from phonotactics. The consonants are p, b, t, d, k, s, h, w, y, and voiced and voiceless versions of m, n, ng, l, r; the vowels are short and long versions of a, i, u.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13323740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13323740", "title": "Newstopia", "text": "Newstopia\n\nNewstopia (stylised as NEWStopia) was an Australian half-hour satirical comedy programme hosted by Shaun Micallef. The first series premiered at on SBS TV on 10 October 2007 and concluded on 3 December 2007. A second season began on 27 February 2008 and concluded on 30 April 2008. A third season of the show screened from 1 October to 3 December 2008. The show was developed by Micallef, Gary McCaffrie, Michael Ward and Jason Stephens, with McCaffrie and Ward working as writers on the programme. A fourth series in 2009 was planned, but cancelled due to production clashes with \"Talkin' 'Bout Your Generation.\n\nThe show's contributors include Matt Cameron, Doug MacLeod, Dave O'Neil, Tony Moclair and Richard Marsland.\n\nThe show is presented in the style of a news bulletin, with Shaun Micallef acting as anchor. The program begins with a statement by Micallef about history and/or news and their relation to the show. The rest of the program features segments detailing often factual events, but told from a humorous or satirical angle. Like much of Micallef's earlier work, the humor depicted is mostly surrealism and some social satire.\n\nThe program also has several fictional commercial advertisements placed throughout the real commercial breaks, dressed up to appear as authentic SBS commercials; for example, \"Inspektor Herring\" is a parody of \"Inspector Rex\". Because these commercials are fictional creations of \"Newstopia\", for the first two seasons, SBS broadcast them with the SBS watermark in the bottom right corner, whereas genuine commercials did not show the watermark. Starting in the third season, the show removed the SBS watermark during the fictional commercial advertisements.\n\nThe show also features subliminally parodies of Pope Benedict XVI by supplanting his image with one of Nosferatu—long enough to be noticed, but not long enough for the viewer to have a concrete idea of what they had just seen.\n\n\n\nFollowing the conclusion of each episode's initial broadcast, the \"Newstopia\" website featured a web stream of the current week's episode. This was only available for 7 days, and only to Australian residents, after which it was taken down and replaced by the latest broadcast. International visitors were blocked by an IP blocker. A guestbook was also available for commenting on the newest episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44253732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44253732", "title": "Nowhere girls", "text": "Nowhere girls\n\n“Nowhere Girls” or “Mei Nu”（）is an neologism coined to describe women who have no money, no job, no education, no prospects, no looks, no friends and no sophistication. The pinyin and pronunciation of “Nowhere Girls” is the same as that of “Beautiful Girls” in Putonghua. The term is used to characterise those women who refuse to conform to male expectations and are therefore thought to be unattractive by men, and has strong pejorative connotations. A calque of a South Korean term, it spread to Hong Kong via China, and became popularised through its use in a reality show called “Nowhere Girls”, which was broadcast by Television Broadcasts Limited. This show has aroused much public discussion on this topic.\nIn the TV programme “Nowhere Girls”, women are called “Nowhere Girls” because they are lazy, selfish, short-tempered, rude to others, unfashionable and are self-deluded.\n\n\nNowhere girls usually experience different psychological traumas. According to the reality show “Nowhere Girls”, they suffer from personal setbacks such as parental divorce, personal breakups, or infidelity in relationships. They are stressed, so they tend to escape reality, place blame on a third person, refuse to take responsibility for personal problems, and have a tendency towards self-victimization or self-pity.\n\nAs nowhere girls experience distinct family affairs, leaving them psychologically-hurt. Moreover, Hong Kong has low birth rates from time to time leading to single-child families. They become the treasure of their parents. They are pampered and spoiled which results in weakened coping abilities. In addition, children nowadays engage in less communication with their parents who are always out for work, and thus children receive less parental mental support.\n\nNowhere girls do not conform to traditional notions of beauty. In addition, they are self-centered and short-tempered. It is difficult for them to engage in the society with appropriate communication and to cooperate with others. As they are spoiled by their parents, they lack essential skills like problem-solving skills. Therefore, they do not appeal to employers and thus cannot find a job, while they insist that it is a social discrimination.\n\nNowhere girls become less confident and inferior in front of their friends and families because they are not appreciated. For instance, the participants in the “Nowhere Girls” show cried frequently in front of the camera. They were being teased in the cyber world. in which their background informations were being disclosed in the public. In severe cases, they may suffer from depression or psychological illnesses.\n\nNowhere girls are less willing to engage in social activities. They prefer being alone instead of participating in social gatherings to avoid any embarrassment. They have low sense of connection with their social circles. Moreover, they may undergo difficulties in meeting new friends as they are not being recognised.\n\nMost of the nowhere girls are either single or unmarried. Their parents will be anxious about their marital status as Chinese people values marriage. They will be pressurised to find their partners as soon as possible. This brings them great pressure in fulfilling their parents’ expectations, and also deteriorates their family relationships.\n\nNowhere girls hold negative attitudes towards their futures. They perceive their life as unfortunate. Therefore, they always think pessimistically since they consider their lives as hopeless. Lacking of security in their family will further result in their inclination into pessimism.\n\n\"Nowhere Girls” (Chinese )is a reality show produced by Television Broadcasts Limited. It was broadcast in August 2014 and there are 20 episodes in total. The show focuses on seven women who are described as \"have nots\" and each of them is said to represent one of \"seven deadly sins\", including laziness, selfishness, ugliness and being a recent mainland immigrant etc. This programme stirred up much controversy since it discriminated against so-called “Mei Nu” and brought out wrong messages - “makeovers, working with fitness trainers and life coaches can lead to better lives\" to the audience. There were also suspicions that seven women got paid to act and some incidents were staged. Moreover, the show hurt the professional image of psychologists in Hong Kong because Wong Hoi-man, who is a clinical psychologist and the guest counsellor of “Nowhere Girls”, handled cases in improper ways. It led to misunderstandings towards therapeutic techniques of qualified psychologists.\n"}
{"id": "14016381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14016381", "title": "Nude photography", "text": "Nude photography\n\nNude photography is the creation of any photograph which contains an image of a nude or semi-nude person, or an image suggestive of nudity. Nude photography is undertaken for a variety of purposes, including educational uses, commercial applications and artistic creations. The exhibition or publication of nude photographs may be controversial, more so in some cultures or countries than in others, and especially if the subject is a minor.\n\nNude photographs may be used for scientific and educational purpose, such as ethnographic studies, human physiology or sex education. In this context, the emphasis of the photograph is not on the subject, or the beauty or eroticism of the image, but on the educational or demonstrative purpose for which the image was produced.\n\nThe nude image may be used for analysis or to accompany medical or other text books, scientific reports, articles or research papers. They are essentially of an illustrative nature, and so nude photographs of this type are often labeled to show key features in a supporting context.\n\nSince the first days of photography, the nude was a source of inspiration for those that adopted the new medium. Most of the early images were closely guarded or surreptitiously circulated as violations of the social norms of the time, since the photograph captures real nudity. Many cultures, while accepting nudity in art, shun actual nudity. For example, even an art gallery which exhibits nude paintings will typically not accept nudity in a visitor.\nAlfred Cheney Johnston (1885–1971) was a professional American photographer who often photographed Ziegfeld Follies. He also maintained his own highly successful commercial photo studio, producing magazine ads for a wide range of upscale retail commercial products—mostly men's and women's fashions—and also photographed several hundred artists and showgirls, including nude photographs of some. Most of his nude images (some named, mostly anonymous) were, in fact, showgirls from the Ziegfeld Follies, but such daring, unretouched full-frontal images would certainly not have been openly publishable in the 1920s–1930s, so it is speculated that these were either simply his own personal artistic work, and/or done at the behest of Flo Ziegfeld for the showman's personal enjoyment.\n\nGlamour photographs emphasize the subject, usually female, in a romantic and most attractive, sexually alluring manner. The subject may be fully clothed or semi-nude, but glamour photography stops short of intentionally sexually arousing the viewer and being pornographic. Before about the 1960s, glamour photography was commonly referred to as erotic photography.\n\nNudity and sexually suggestive imagery is common in modern-day culture and widely used in advertising to help sell products. A feature of this form of advertising is that the imagery used typically has no connection to the product being advertised. The purpose of such imagery is to attract the attention of a potential customer or user. The imagery used may include nudity, actual or suggestive, and glamour photography.\n\nNude or semi-nude imagery is also widely used in entertainment, sometimes referred to as adult entertainment. This may be in the form of postcards, pin ups, and other formats.\n\nCovers of mainstream magazines sometimes include images of nude or semi-nude subjects. In the early 1990s, Demi Moore posed for two covers of \"Vanity Fair\": \"Demi's Birthday Suit\" and \"More Demi Moore\". Some magazines, such as men's magazines, commonly feature nude or semi-nude images, and some magazines have created a reputation for their nude centrefolds.\n\nMusic album covers often incorporate photography, at times including nude or semi-nude images. Album covers that have incorporated nudity have included those of performers such as Jimi Hendrix (\"Electric Ladyland\", 1968), John Lennon and Yoko Ono (\"\", 1968), Nirvana, Blind Faith (\"Blind Faith\", 1969), Scorpions (\"Virgin Killer\", 1976) and Jane's Addiction (\"Nothing's Shocking\", 1988). The covers for \"Blind Faith\" and \"Virgin Killer\" were especially controversial because the nude images were of prepubescent girls, and were re-issued with alternative covers in some countries.\n\nThe emphasis of fine arts is aesthetics and creativity; and any erotic interest, although often present, is secondary. This distinguishes nude photography from both glamour photography and pornographic photography. The distinction between these is not always clear, and photographers tends to use their own judgment in characterizing their own work, though viewers also have their judgement. The nude remains a controversial subject in all media, but more so with photography due to its inherent realism. The male nude has been less common than the female, and more rarely exhibited.\n\nEarly fine-art photographers in Western cultures, seeking to establish photography as a fine art medium, frequently chose women as the subjects for their nudes, in poses that accorded with traditional practice in other media. Before nude photography, art nudes usually used allusions to classical antiquity; gods and warriors, goddesses and nymphs. Poses, lighting, soft focus, vignetting and hand retouching were employed to create photographic images that were comparable to the other arts at that time. Although 19th-century artists in other media often used photographs as substitutes for live models, the best of these photographs were also intended as works of art in their own right.\n\nAfter World War I, avant-garde photographers such as Brassaï, Man Ray, Hans Bellmer, André Kertész and Bill Brandt became more experimental in their portrayal of nudity, using reflective distortions and printing techniques to create abstractions or depicting real life rather than classical allusions. Alfred Stieglitz's photos of Georgia O'Keeffe are examples of some of the earliest nudes presented in an intimate and personal style rather than with dispassionate idealization. Edward Weston, Imogen Cunningham, Ruth Bernhard, Harry Callahan, Emmet Gowin and Edward Steichen continued this trend. Weston evolved a particularly American aesthetic, using a large format camera to capture images of nature and landscapes as well as nudes, establishing photography as a fine arts medium. In 1937 Weston became the first photographer to be awarded a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship. For a famous example of Weston's work see: Charis Wilson. Many fine art photographers have a variety of subjects in their work, the nude being one. Diane Arbus was attracted to unusual people in unusual settings, including a nudist camp. Lee Friedlander had more conventional subjects, one being Madonna as a young model.\n\nThe distinction between fine art and glamour is often one of marketing, with fine art being sold through galleries or dealers in limited editions signed by the artist, and glamour photos being distributed through mass media. For some, the difference is in the gaze of the model; glamour models look into the camera, while art models do not. Glamour and fashion photographers have aspired to fine art status in some of their work. One such photographer was Irving Penn, who progressed from \"Vogue\" magazine to photographing fashion models such as Kate Moss nude. Richard Avedon, Helmut Newton and Annie Leibovitz have followed a similar path with portraits of the famous, many of them nude. or partially clothed. In the post-modern era, where fame is often the subject of fine art, Avedon's photo of Nastassja Kinski with a python, and Leibovitz's magazine covers of Demi Moore pregnant and in body paint have become iconic. The work of Joyce Tenneson has gone the other way, from fine art with a unique, soft-focus style showing women at all stages of life to portraiture of famous people and fashion photography.\n\nAlthough nude photographers have largely worked within established forms that show bodies as sculptural abstractions, some, such as Robert Mapplethorpe, have created works that deliberately blur the boundaries between erotica and art.\n\nSeveral photographers have become controversial because of their nude photographs of underage subjects. David Hamilton often used erotic themes. Sally Mann was raised in rural Virginia, in a locale where skinny-dipping in a river was common, so many of her most famous photographs are of her own children swimming in the nude. Less well-known photographers have been charged as criminals for photos of their own children.\n\nBody image has become a topic explored by many photographers working with models whose bodies do not conform to conventional prejudices about beauty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13794465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794465", "title": "October (journal)", "text": "October (journal)\n\nOctober is a peer-reviewed academic journal specializing in contemporary art, criticism, and theory, published by MIT Press.\n\n\"October\" was established in 1976 in New York by Rosalind E. Krauss and Annette Michelson, who left \"Artforum\" to do so. The founders of the journal were originally known as \"Octoberists\". Its name is a reference to the that set the tone of intellectual, politically engaged writing that has been the hallmark of the journal. The journal was a participant in introducing French post-structural theory on the English-speaking academic scene. According to \"The Art Story\", Krauss used the journal \"as a way to publish essays on her emergent ideas on post-structuralist art theory, Deconstructionist theory, psychoanalysis, postmodernism and feminism\". Jeremy Gilbert-Rolfe, one of the co-founders of the journal, withdrew after only a few issues, and by the spring of 1977, Douglas Crimp joined the editorial team. In 1990, after Crimp left the journal, Krauss and Michelson were joined by Yve-Alain Bois, Hal Foster, Benjamin H. D. Buchloh, Denis Hollier, and John Rajchman.\n\nAs well as in-depth articles and reviews of 20th century and contemporary art, the journal features critical interpretations of cinema and popular culture from a progressive viewpoint.\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the journal was an \"influential vehicle for the debate surrounding the emergence of postmodernism and New Historicism in 20th-century art-historical studies\", and the journal \"contributed greatly to Anglo-American academics’ adoption of French theoretical innovations, especially those pertaining to the analysis of cinema\". \"The Art Story\" describes the journal as \"significant for revisiting and stressing the historical importance of early modes of 20th-century avant-garde art, such as Cubism, Surrealism and Expressionism\".\n\nMIT Press has released two anthologies of articles and a book series.\n"}
{"id": "10744940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10744940", "title": "Propaganda techniques", "text": "Propaganda techniques\n\nCommon media for transmitting propaganda messages include news reports, government reports, historical revision, junk science, books, leaflets, movies, social media, radio, television, and posters. Less common nowadays are the cow post envelopes, examples of which have survived from the time of the American Civil War. (Connecticut Historical Society; Civil War Collections; Covers.) In the case of radio and television, propaganda can exist on news, current-affairs or talk-show segments, as advertising or public-service announcement \"spots\" or as long-running advertorials. Propaganda campaigns often follow a strategic transmission pattern to indoctrinate the target group. This may begin with a simple transmission such as a leaflet dropped from a plane or an advertisement. Generally these messages will contain directions on how to obtain more information, via a web site, hot line, radio program, etc. The strategy intends to initiate the individual from information recipient to information seeker through reinforcement, and then from information seeker to opinion leader through indoctrination.\n\nA number of techniques based on social psychological research are used to generate propaganda. Many of these same techniques can be found under logical fallacies, since propagandists use arguments that, while sometimes convincing, are not necessarily valid.\n\nInformation dissemination strategies only become propaganda strategies when coupled with \"propagandistic messages\". Identifying these messages is a necessary prerequisite to study the methods by which those messages are spread.\n\nScholars have identified many standard techniques used in propaganda and persuasion.\n\n\n\nFalse accusations can be in any of the following contexts:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA smear is an effort to damage or call into question someone's reputation, by propounding negative propaganda. It can be applied to individuals or groups.\n\n\n\n\nSome propaganda techniques can be found in logic books.\n"}
{"id": "11743730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11743730", "title": "Romano-Germanic culture", "text": "Romano-Germanic culture\n\nThe term Romano-Germanic describes the conflation of Roman culture with that of various Germanic peoples in areas successively ruled by the Roman Empire and Germanic \"barbarian monarchies\".\n\nThese include the kingdoms of the Visigoths (in Hispania and Gallia Narbonensis), the Ostrogoths (in Italia, Sicilia, Raetia, Noricum, Pannonia, Dalmatia and Dacia), the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in Sub-Roman Britain and finally the Franks who established the nucleus of the later \"Holy Roman Empire\" in Gallia Aquitania, Gallia Lugdunensis, Gallia Belgica, Germania Superior and Inferior, and parts of the previously unconquered Germania Magna. Additionally, minor Germanic tribes, like the Vandals, the Suebi, and the Visigoths established kingdoms in Hispania.\n\nThe cultural syncretism of Roman and Germanic traditions overlaid the earlier syncretism of Roman culture with the Celtic culture of the respective imperial provinces, Gallo-Roman culture in Gaul and Romano-British culture in Britain. This results in a triple fusion of Celtic-Roman-Germanic culture for France and England in particular.\n\nRomano-Germanic cultural contact begins as early as the first Roman accounts of the Germanic peoples. Roman influence is perceptible beyond the boundaries of the empire, in the Northern European Roman Iron Age of the first centuries AD. The nature of this cultural contact changes with the decline of the Roman Empire and the beginning Migration period in the wake of the crisis of the third century: the \"barbarian\" peoples of Germania Magna formerly known as mercenaries and traders now came as invaders and eventually as a new ruling elite, even in Italy itself, beginning with Odoacer's rise to the rank of \"Dux Italiae\" in 476 AD.\n\nThe cultural syncretism was most pronounced in Francia. In West Francia, the nucleus of what was to become France, the Frankish language was eventually extinct, but not without leaving significant traces in the emerging Romance language. In East Francia on the other hand, the nucleus of what was to become the kingdom of Germany and ultimately German-speaking Europe, the syncretism was less pronounced since only its southernmost portion had ever been part of the Roman Empire, as Germania Superior: all territories on the right hand side of the Rhine remain Germanic-speaking. Those parts of the Germanic sphere extends along the left of the Rhine, including the Swiss plateau, the Alsace, the Rhineland and Flanders, are the parts where Romano-Germanic cultural contact remains most evident.\n\nEarly Germanic law reflects the coexistence of Roman and Germanic cultures during the Migration period in applying separate laws to Roman and Germanic individuals, notably the \"Lex Romana Visigothorum\" (506), the \"Lex Romana Curiensis\" and the \"Lex Romana Burgundionum\". The separate cultures amalgamated after Christianization, and by the Carolingian period the distinction of Roman vs. Germanic subjects had been replaced by the feudal system of the Three Estates of the Realm.\n\nWith a renewed close attention to the history and literature of ancient Rome in the 12th century, the medieval aristocracy saw itself mirrored in the accounts of ancient Roman nobility. Some made doubtful claims to direct descent from Roman aristocracy. \n\nIn the 19th century, German and French medievalists worried about the origins of the great medieval families. Did the great families descend from the aristocracy of the Roman Empire or from the barbarian chieftains who invaded the Roman Empire between 400 and 600? Did the families originate in the Latin or Germanic world? Both, it seems. Medieval Western Europe was an amalgam of Roman and 'Barbarian' bloodlines.\nThe cultural and genetic influence of the Visigoths, Franks, et al. is readily apparent in the socio-cultural and political framework of Medieval Europe. In spite of this, the legacy of Rome, both social-cultural and genetic pervaded every aspect of Medieval society - this was of course greatly assisted by the medieval Church.\n\nBeginning in the 19th century scholars such as Nikolay Yakovlevich Danilevsky and other pan-Slavism and Slavophile writers have used the term to distinguish eastern and western Europe, or Slavic-Russian culture as opposed to Romano-Germanic culture. The earliest mentions of these ideas arose when the Hellenic Byzantine east made attempts to distinguish itself from the Latin west during the times of the Roman Empire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15740717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15740717", "title": "S Curve (art)", "text": "S Curve (art)\n\nThe S Curve is a traditional art concept in Ancient Greek sculpture and Roman sculpture where the figure's body and posture is depicted like a sinuous or serpentine \"S\". It is related to and is an extension of the art term of contrapposto which is when a figure is depicted slouching or placing one's weight and thus center of gravity to one side. However, the S Curve involves more of the body than the contrapposto, and is therefore considered to be a more advanced technical development.\nThe \"S Curve\" concept was initiated by famous Greek sculptor Praxiteles, son of Kifissodotos.\n"}
{"id": "21691040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21691040", "title": "Saldus Art School", "text": "Saldus Art School\n\nSaldus Art School () is an art school in Saldus, Latvia founded in 1984. Approximately 130 students from the age of eight to sixteen attend the school after their lessons in contemporary school three times a week.\n\nSaldus Art school is an educational establishment. The seven-year curriculum consists of drawing, painting, sculpture, introduction to the language of art, composition and work with material. Students take part in nature studies - green practice in June every summer. They make their graduation pieces in the last semester of the 7th school year - wall paintings, ceramics, mosaics, paintings on silk, graphics and other artworks in public places.\n\nTen teachers work in Saldus Art school: professional painters, artists in ceramics, designers and an architect. The headmistress is Vēsma Krūmiņa, teachers are Zigrīda Buzoverova, Gunta Kraulere, Merike Armulika, Kristīne Ozola, Ilze Zemīte, Linda Buzoverova, Anna Dobele, and Silvija Nārvila.\n\nTeachers at the school offer courses and master classes for adults and children, during the school year and in summer. \nThe school, in cooperation with the Council of Saldus, organizes an open air workshop during the summer months. Children from Latvia and from Saldus's \"twin\" towns Paide, Mažeikiai and Sergijevo Posad take part in the camp.\n\n"}
{"id": "12972464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12972464", "title": "ScotlandWhisky", "text": "ScotlandWhisky\n\nScotlandWhisky, also known as the Scotch Whisky Tourism Initiative, was launched in 2003 by Jim Wallace MSP, the then Deputy First Minister of Scotland, and Ian Good, Chairman of the Scotch Whisky Association. The project is a partnership between the public and private sectors, with the aim of exploring where the tourism and Scotch whisky industries can work together to realize mutual commercial benefits. It is financed by the Scotch Whisky Association, The Scotch Whisky Experience, Scottish Enterprise, Highlands and Islands Enterprise, and VisitScotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "26733054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26733054", "title": "Ski Mont Saint-Bruno", "text": "Ski Mont Saint-Bruno\n\nSki Mont Saint-Bruno is an alpine ski facility in the suburbs of Montreal, Quebec. It is located on the slopes of Mont Saint-Bruno, in the city of Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville. It is located right next to Parc national du Mont-Saint-Bruno, a Quebec provincial park that offers cross-country skiing and snowshoeing. The ski station is located on the South Shore of Montreal, 30 minutes from Downtown Montreal. The ski hill is 175m tall. It is also next to a quarry.\n\nThe ski station was opened in 1965. As of the 2009-2010 season, the ski station has the largest ski school in Canada, with over 500 instructors, and over 32,000 students a year. The ski hill has 15 runs, and offers evening skiing on lit pistes. It also contains an isolation room to hold criminals. It is considered an \"urban resort\" as opposed to a \"destination resort\".\n\nSki MontJoye is owned by the same company that operates Ski Mont Saint-Bruno.\n\n"}
{"id": "11330015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11330015", "title": "Synthetic genomics", "text": "Synthetic genomics\n\nSynthetic genomics is a nascent field of synthetic biology that uses aspects of genetic modification on pre-existing life forms, or artificial gene synthesis to create new DNA or entire lifeforms.\n\nSynthetic genomics is unlike genetic modification in the sense that it does not use naturally occurring genes in its life forms. It may make use of custom designed base pair series, though in a more expanded and presently unrealized sense synthetic genomics could utilize genetic codes that are not composed of the two base pairs of DNA that are currently used by life.\n\nThe development of synthetic genomics is related to certain recent technical abilities and technologies in the field of genetics. The ability to construct long base pair chains cheaply and accurately on a large scale has allowed researchers to perform experiments on genomes that do not exist in nature. Coupled with the developments in protein folding models and decreasing computational costs the field synthetic genomics is beginning to enter a productive stage of vitality.\n\nResearchers were able to create a synthetic organism for the first time in 2010. This breakthrough was undertaken by Synthetic Genomics, Inc., which continues to specialize in the research and commercialization of custom designed genomes. It was accomplished by synthesizing a 600 kbp genome (resembling that of \"Mycoplasma genitalium\", save the insertion of a few watermarks) via the Gibson Assembly method and Transformation Associated Recombination.\n\nSoon after the discovery of restriction endonucleases and ligases, the field of genetics began using these molecular tools to assemble artificial sequences from smaller fragments of synthetic or naturally-occurring DNA. The advantage in using the recombinatory approach as opposed to continual DNA synthesis stems from the inverse relationship that exists between synthetic DNA length and percent purity of that synthetic length. In other words, as you synthesize longer sequences, the number of error-containing clones increases due to the inherent error rates of current technologies. Although recombinant DNA technology is more commonly used in the construction of fusion proteins and plasmids, several techniques with larger capacities have emerged, allowing for the construction of entire genomes.\n\nPolymerase cycling assembly (PCA) uses a series of oligonucleotides (or oligos), approximately 40 to 60 nucleotides long, that altogether constitute both strands of the DNA being synthesized. These oligos are designed such that a single oligo from one strand contains a length of approximately 20 nucleotides at each end that is complementary to sequences of two different oligos on the opposite strand, thereby creating regions of overlap. The entire set is processed through cycles of: (a) hybridization at 60 °C; (b) elongation via Taq polymerase and a standard ligase; and (c) denaturation at 95 °C, forming progressively longer contiguous strands and ultimately resulting in the final genome. PCA was used to generate the first synthetic genome in history, that of the Phi X 174 virus.\n\nThe Gibson assembly method, designed by Daniel Gibson during his time at the J. Craig Venter Institute, requires a set of double-stranded DNA cassettes that constitute the entire genome being synthesized. Note that cassettes differ from contigs by definition, in that these sequences contain regions of homology to other cassettes for the purposes of recombination. In contrast to Polymerase Cycling Assembly, Gibson Assembly is a single-step, isothermal reaction with larger sequence-length capacity; ergo, it is used in place of Polymerase Cycling Assembly for genomes larger than 6 kb.\n\nA T5 exonuclease performs a chew-back reaction at the terminal segments, working in the 5' to 3' direction, thereby producing complimentary overhangs. The overhangs hybridize to each other, a Phusion DNA polymerase fills in any missing nucleotides and the nicks are sealed with a ligase. However, the genomes capable of being synthesized using this method alone is limited because as DNA cassettes increase in length, they require propagation in vitro in order to continue hybridizing; accordingly, Gibson assembly is often used in conjunction with transformation-associated recombination (see below) to synthesize genomes several hundred kilobases in size.\n\nThe goal of transformation-associated recombination (TAR) technology in synthetic genomics is to combine DNA contigs by means of homologous recombination performed by the yeast artificial chromosome (YAC). Of importance is the CEN element within the YAC vector, which corresponds to the yeast centromere. This sequence gives the vector the ability to behave in a chromosomal manner, thereby allowing it to perform homologous recombination.First, gap repair cloning is performed to generate regions of homology flanking the DNA contigs. Gap Repair Cloning is a particular form of the polymerase chain reaction in which specialized primers with extensions beyond the sequence of the DNA target are utilized. Then, the DNA cassettes are exposed to the YAC vector, which drives the process of homologous recombination, thereby connecting the DNA cassettes. Polymerase Cycling Assembly and TAR technology were used together to construct the 600 kb \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" genome in 2008, the first synthetic organism ever created. Similar steps were taken in synthesizing the larger \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" genome a few years later.\n\nAn unnatural base pair (UBP) is a designed subunit (or nucleobase) of DNA which is created in a laboratory and does not occur in nature. In 2012, a group of American scientists led by Floyd Romesberg, a chemical biologist at the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego, California, published that his team designed an unnatural base pair (UBP). The two new artificial nucleotides or \"Unnatural Base Pair\" (UBP) were named d5SICS and dNaM. More technically, these artificial nucleotides bearing hydrophobic nucleobases, feature two fused aromatic rings that form a (d5SICS–dNaM) complex or base pair in DNA. In 2014 the same team from the Scripps Research Institute reported that they synthesized a stretch of circular DNA known as a plasmid containing natural T-A and C-G base pairs along with the best-performing UBP Romesberg's laboratory had designed, and inserted it into cells of the common bacterium \"E. coli\" that successfully replicated the unnatural base pairs through multiple generations. This is the first known example of a living organism passing along an expanded genetic code to subsequent generations. This was in part achieved by the addition of a supportive algal gene that expresses a nucleotide triphosphate transporter which efficiently imports the triphosphates of both d5SICSTP and dNaMTP into \"E. coli\" bacteria. Then, the natural bacterial replication pathways use them to accurately replicate the plasmid containing d5SICS–dNaM.\n\nThe successful incorporation of a third base pair is a significant breakthrough toward the goal of greatly expanding the number of amino acids which can be encoded by DNA, from the existing 20 amino acids to a theoretically possible 172, thereby expanding the potential for living organisms to produce novel proteins. The artificial strings of DNA do not encode for anything yet, but scientists speculate they could be designed to manufacture new proteins which could have industrial or pharmaceutical uses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22976479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22976479", "title": "Taurobolic Altar (Lyon)", "text": "Taurobolic Altar (Lyon)\n\nThe Taurobolic Altar is an inscribed ancient Roman altar found in 1704 in a vineyard belonging to a certain Bourgeat on the Fourvière hill in Lyon, France. It dates to the year 160 and refers to a \"taurobolium\" carried out in Lugdunum to Cybele for the restoration of the emperor Antoninus Pius's health. It is now held at the Gallo-Roman Museum of Lyon.\n"}
{"id": "196761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196761", "title": "The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction", "text": "The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Science Fiction is an English language reference work on science fiction, first published in 1979. In October 2011, the third edition was made available for free online.\n\nThe first edition, edited by Peter Nicholls with John Clute, was published by Granada in 1979. It was retitled \"The Science Fiction Encyclopedia\" when published by Doubleday in the United States. Accompanying its text were numerous black and white photographs illustrating authors, book and magazine covers, film and TV stills, and examples of artists' work.\n\nA second edition, jointly edited by Nicholls and Clute, was published in 1993 by Orbit in the UK and St. Martin's Press in the US. The second edition contained 1.3 million words, almost twice the 700,000 words of the 1979 edition. The 1995 paperback edition included a sixteen page addendum (dated \"7 August 1995\"). Unlike the first edition, the print versions did not contain illustrations. There was also a CD-ROM version in 1995, styled variously as \"The Multimedia Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" and \"Grolier Science Fiction\". This contained text updates through 1995, hundreds of book covers and author photos, a small number of old film trailers, and author video clips taken from the TVOntario series \"Prisoners of Gravity\".\n\nThe companion volume, published after the second print edition and following its format closely, is \"The Encyclopedia of Fantasy\" edited by John Clute and John Grant.\n\nAll print and CD-ROM editions are currently out of print.\n\nIn July 2011, Orion Publishing Group announced that the third edition of the \"Science Fiction Encyclopedia\" would be released online later that year by SFE Ltd in association with Victor Gollancz, Orion's science fiction imprint. The \"beta text\" of the third edition launched online on 2 October 2011, with editors John Clute, David Langford, Peter Nicholls (as Editor Emeritus until his death in 2018) and Graham Sleight. The encyclopedia is updated regularly (usually several times a week) by the editorial team with material written by themselves and contributed by science fiction academics and experts. It received the Hugo Award for Best Related Work in 2012. Though the \"SFE\" is a composite work with a considerable number of contributors, the three main editors (Clute, Langford and Nicholls) have themselves written almost two-thirds of the 5.2 million words to date (September 2016), conveying a sense of unity to the whole.\n\n\"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" contains entries under the categories of authors, themes, terminology, science fiction in various countries, films, filmmakers, television, magazines, fanzines, comics, illustrators, book publishers, original anthologies, awards, and miscellaneous.\n\nThe online edition of \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" was released in October 2011 with 12,230 entries, totaling 3,200,000 words. The editors predicted that it would contain 4,000,000 words upon completion of the first round of updates at the end of 2012; this figure was actually reached in January 2013, and 5,000,000 words in November 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46317974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46317974", "title": "University Center for Culture and the Arts", "text": "University Center for Culture and the Arts\n\nThe University Center for Culture and the Arts (UCCA) is a non-profit cultural center of the Polytechnic University of the Philippines. The agency is under the Office of the Vice President for Student Services. The UCCA is currently residing at the PUP Theater inside the PUP College of Communication compound.\n\nThe UCCA hosts various events inside and outside the university. On August 29, 2014, the Polytechnic University of the Philippines through UCCA conferred the 'Pambansang Artista Ng Mamamayan' award to Nora Aunor in the PUP Theater. The UCCA also spearheads the annual university Arts Month every February.\n\nBuklod Sining, a central cultural body, was organized in 1974. Under the cultural body were different cultural groups: Dulambuhay, Himig Lahi (a faculty choral group), Bagong Himig, Banda Kawayan, Rondalla, Brass Band, and the PCC Dance Troupe. The organization of Buklod Sining started the University Center for Culture and the Arts.\n\nThe Cultural Development Office (CDO) was included in the university structure during the University Reorganization Plan in 1976. The creation of CDO lead to the direction of cultural programs from a formal university unit. Objectives and programs were defined in the creation of the office.\n\nWith the issuance of the University President's Office Order No. 6, s. 1980, the Cultural Development Office was renamed to Office the University Center for Cultural Affairs (UCCA) on October 1, 1980. It was in 1987 that office was renamed to University Center for Culture and the Arts during the reorganization plan. Different cultural groups were also added under UCCA during that time. Since then, the office have undergone different renaming and reorganization over the past years.\n\nThe University Center for Culture and the Arts is composed of various cultural groups and organizations specializing on different crafts. The following groups and organizations are members of the UCCA.\n\nBuklod Sining, formerly known as Guhit Sudlungan, is the official visual arts group under the University Center for Culture and the Arts, Polytechnic University of the Philippines. The group have won various competitions including the 2014 3D Street Painting Contest organized by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources\n\nPolysound is the official band of the University Center for Culture and the Arts, Polytechnic University of the Philippines composing of undergraduate students and university artists.\n\nMaharlika Dance Artists is the official dance group of the university, performing myriad repertoires. The group aims to promote the significance of cultural performing arts from traditional to modern era.\n\nPUP ICONS, formerly known as PUP Ramp Artists, is the official cultural promotions management group of the university.\n\nPUP Bagong Himig-Serenata is the official chorale group of the university under the University Center for Culture and the Arts.\n\nPUP Sining-Lahi Polyrepertory, also known as \"POLYREP\", is the Resident Student Theater Organization of the Polytechnic University of the Philippines under the University Center for Culture and the Arts\n\nPUP Harana String Co., formerly known as PUP Rondalla is a String Ensemble under the Polytechnic University of the Philippines - University Center for Culture and the Arts.\n\nPUPIL Photography Club or PUP's iskong/iskang litratista is the official photography organization of PUP University Center for Culture and the Arts. It used to be known as PUP Lente Photo Club.\n"}
{"id": "50031377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50031377", "title": "Upper Hungary Magyar Educational Society", "text": "Upper Hungary Magyar Educational Society\n\nThe Upper Hungary Magyar Educational Society (, FEMKE, also FMKE; ) was an organisation in Upper Hungary, founded on 20 November 1883, that conducted Magyarisation initiatives among the region's predominantly ethnic Slovak population. By sponsoring cultural activities, education for children, and the establishment of libraries and courses in the Hungarian language, the Society aimed to assimilate Slovaks into the country's Hungarian population while spreading the general use of Hungarian, then the official state language. It was based in Nyitra, now the city of Nitra in western Slovakia, and was supported by the prominent Hungarian nationalist Béla Grünwald and the Bishop of Nitra, Imre Bende. The organisation met some success: between 1900 and 1910, the proportion of self-identified Slovaks in Nyitra County dropped by over 6 percent, thanks in part to its efforts, and by 1910, it was estimated that 21 percent of the Slovak population in the country as a whole had learned Hungarian. The Society came to operate 227 libraries across Upper Hungary. Its establishment was followed by the setting up of a similar society in Transylvania. FEMKE was ultimately dissolved in 1919 after the breakup of the Kingdom of Hungary.\n"}
{"id": "3477744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3477744", "title": "Vampires in Havana", "text": "Vampires in Havana\n\n¡Vampiros en La Habana! (English title: Vampires in Havana) is a 1985 Cuban animated film directed by Juan Padrón and features trumpet performances by Arturo Sandoval. A sequel to the film, called \"Más vampiros en La Habana\" (English title: More Vampires in Havana!), was released in 2003.\n\nJoseph Amadeus von Dracula, known as Pepito to his friends, is a trumpet player in 1930s Havana who spends his time away from the bandstand dabbling in quasi-terrorist plots to overthrow the Cuban government of dictator, Gerardo Machado. He is unaware that he is really a vampire, and that his uncle, Werner Amadeus von Dracula, the son of Count Dracula, has been using him as a test subject for a formula that negates the usually fatal effects of sunlight.\n\nA Chicago-based crime syndicate and a group of vampires with members from several countries in Europe have both learned of the formula and wish to possess it for different reasons—the Chicago group to suppress it and thus maintain their monopoly on indoor, artificial beach resorts, and the Europeans to market it as \"Vampisol.\" When Pepito learns of his true heritage (and his uncle's wish to give the formula away to vampires everywhere) he becomes the target of a multi-pronged manhunt, leading all parties involved on a wild chase through some of the seediest neighborhoods of Havana.\n\nAt the film's climax, Pepito and his girlfriend, Lola,find themselves cornered by the Chicago vampire cartel, led by vampire mobster Johnny Terrori. He tells Pepito to have some O positive blood as his last drink, the blood type which vampires consider to be the most delicious. However, when he spits it out in disgust, Terrori realizes that Pepito's dislike of drinking blood, the fact that he was harmed by a lead bullet earlier (vampires can only be harmed by silver bullets) and that he is completely impervious to sunlight (it instantly kills vampires) means that Pepito has stopped being a vampire. Terrori loses interest in the Vampisol formula, realizing that its effect is to turn vampires into humans. However, the leader of the European vampires suggests a deal with his counterparts from Chicago, whereby they can encourage vampires to take small amounts of Vampisol in the summer and visit the mobsters' artificial beaches in the winter. Both groups believe that they are going to make a fortune from Vampisol but, as a final resolution, Pepito sings instructions on how to prepare the formula over the radio to vampires worldwide, instructing them to use it sparingly to avoid becoming human. The Vampisol formula becomes financially worthless and both vampire cartels find themselves defeated.\n\nAt the very end of the film a vampire addresses the audience and says, \"Be careful, because that guy next to you on the beach... might just be a vampire!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36679555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36679555", "title": "Woodland Pattern Book Center", "text": "Woodland Pattern Book Center\n\nWoodland Pattern Book Center is a nonprofit organization in Milwaukee, Wisconsin's Riverwest neighborhood that seeks to present small press literature, readings, visual art, and experimental music with a focus on contemporary practice. The organization was founded in 1979. It is named for a line in a poem published in Paul Metcalf's \"Apalache.\"\n\nWoodland Pattern operates a bookstore specializing in poetry, multicultural literature, and books published by small and independent presses. The bookstore's collection exceeds 25,000 titles, including a selection of chapbooks, zines, regional literary journals, and one-of-a-kind artist's books.\n\nWoodland Pattern is known for its community alliances, its efforts to bridge cultural and genre divides, and the diversity of its offerings, as well as its emphasis on new (experimental) writers and writing. An art gallery offers space for exhibitions as well as performances, film screenings, classes, installations, conferences, symposia and workshops.\n\nPoet Jerome Rothenberg has praised Woodland Pattern's reputation as \"national in scope, and I know of no other center - anywhere in the U.S. - that has carried on a more intricate and demanding program in the literary arts\".\n"}
{"id": "12295181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12295181", "title": "Worldware", "text": "Worldware\n\nWorldware is a term coined by Steve Ehrmann to denote materials that are a) created and marketed mainly for purposes other than (just) teaching and learning, but which are also b) used for teaching and learning. Examples of \"worldware\" include personal computers, most word processing software, and software used mainly for professional research.\n\nEhrmann coined the term while leading the Valuable Viable Software (VVS) project of the Educom Software Initiative. Educom is now Educause, and the Educom Software Initiative was a volunteer initiative created in the late 1980s by Steven W. Gilbert, then Educom's Vice President for Education. The goal of the VVS project was to find examples of software that had gotten into widespread, influential use in post-secondary teaching and learning. In the early decades of computer use, many educators and observers assumed that the best way to use computing to support learning was to create special purpose hardware and software for that purpose, e.g., tutorial software, even educational word processors (complete with instructional materials and feedback) and even computers created specifically for educational use.\n\nThe VVS project team studied more than two dozen software packages, looking for examples that had been both valuable (evaluations and experience indicated that the software-in-use could be of great educational value) and viable (i.e., the software had been in use by enough people and for enough years to influence educational practice). Most examples of valuable viable software that they found were either \"worldware\" or \"student editions of \"worldware\".\" Minitab, one of the software packages studied by the VVS Project, was an example of a student edition of worldware. It was designed to be very much like professional software, but easier to use and cheaper to purchase than its professional counterpart. The VVS Project also found that student editions of \"worldware\" often evolved into \"worldware\"; the easy-to-use, inexpensive software was used for professional purposes, too, especially by people who had learned using the original software.\n\nThe finding was a startling one: in the early 1990s, most people still assumed that the most important way to use computing to support learning was by designing elegant, powerful software to support learning (e.g., intelligent tutors, simulations, branching pathways of instructional information). But such software rarely seemed to last long enough to attain widespread use. Typically, the VVS Project found, such software would become obsolete without ever achieving wide enough use to justify further foundation or publisher funding. The obsolescence occurred for many reasons, the most fast-acting of which was usually technical — changes in operating hardware and software often required an investment as large, or larger, than the original expenditure in order for the software to survive in the new environment. This led to the observation that, \"the bigger the grant funding the development of software, the smaller the chance for the software to thrive.\"\n\nAnother pitfall for such software lay in the publisher practice of making a gift of such software to faculty who adopted their textbooks. Because no income stream was directly associated with the instructional software, the publisher usually had little motivation to upgrade the software.\n\nWorldware (and student editions) had a number of advantages that rendered them more viable than typical instructional software:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45124496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45124496", "title": "Xicalcoliuhqui", "text": "Xicalcoliuhqui\n\nThe word \"xicalcoliuhqui\" () means \"twisted gourd\" (\"xical\"- \"gourdbowl\" and \"coliuhqui\" \"twisted\") in Nahuatl. The motif is associated with many ideas, and is variously thought to depict water, waves, clouds, lightning, a serpent or serpent-deity like the mythological fire or feathered serpents, as well as more philosophical ideas like cyclical movement, or the life-giving connection between the light of the sun and the earth, and it may have been a protection against death, but no single meaning is universally accepted. It is also possible that the motif represents the cut conch shell which is an emblem of Ehecatl, the wind god, an aspect of Quetzalcoatl. It seems likely that the multivalent nature of the symbol gave rise to its potency and longevity.\n\n \"Xicalcoliuhqui chimalli\", are shields featuring a single iteration of the stepped fret motif which were painted or covered with featherwork. They are depicted frequently in the Codex Mendoza, and many other central Mexican codices, usually with the xicalcoliuhqui design shown in yellow and green.\n\n The xicalcoliuhqui motif appears in embellishments on temples and other buildings at archaeological sites around Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "11142708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11142708", "title": "Zara Si Zindagi", "text": "Zara Si Zindagi\n\nZara Si Zindagi () is a 1983 Indian Hindi-language film directed by K. Balachander, starring Kamal Haasan, Anita Raj, Nilu Phule, Mazhar Khan, Shriram Lagoo and Karan Razdan.\n\nIt is the remake of the Tamil film \"Varumayin Niram Sivappu\" (1980), which was simultaneously shot in Telugu as \"Aakali Rajyam\" (1981), directed by Balachander himself. \"Zara Si Zindagi\" story was written by Balachander, while the dialogues were written by Gulzar. \n\nRakesh (Kamal Haasan), a young M.A. in philosophy comes to Delhi from Bihar looking for a job. Rakesh, along with his friend Amit of Bengal (Karan Razdan) lives in a slum. One day Amit's friend Tilak from Punjab (Arjun Chakraborty) goes to that dilapidated cottage for staying where Rakesh and Amit reside. The three men share everything that they get to eat and starve for food on most days. Rakesh suddenly one day sees a girl named Kusum (Anita Raj), where he finds her in a bus stop waiting for the next bus towards the railway station, Rakesh offers her to carry the luggage of her till railway station as bus-service is closed and taxi-drivers are on strike on that day. On reaching the railway station, Kusum pays Rakesh to which he replies that he has no change. She rebukes him in Punjabi language assuming he does not speak the language that he is trying to cheat her. Rakesh tells her that he knows Punjabi.\n\nRakesh once chases a man (Nilu Phule) to his house to get back the 15 rupees which he looted from him by lying. The man enters a house, Rakesh follows him by running after him and reaches till that house and Kusum opens the door after knocking. Rakesh comes to know that the man is Kusum's father. Rakesh tells about the money and Kusum returns the money to Rakesh. Kusum is a small-time stage actress. Kusum goes to Rakesh's house to introduce him to her stage play director to replace an ill actor so that he could earn some money as she came to know that Rakesh is an unemployed man. Kusum introduces Rakesh to her stage-director Pratap (Mazhar Khan), who is arrogant and short-tempered. Pratap has an obsession for Kusum. Pratap can't tolerate intimacy between Rakesh and Kusum. Pratap throws out Rakesh from stage drama acting because of disobeying him. Rakesh does not take the post of a clerk of a company after misbehaving with interview-takers and tears his certificates of educational qualifications.\n\nAmit somehow earns money which he did so by the advice of a friend of his named Dilip. Tilak wants to know who Dilip is. He ran away from home in search of that person. Jaggu (Kusum's father) abandons from their home and doesn't return for so many days. Kusum comes to Rakesh's house with her bag and baggage to live there, as her father's information is not known, where he has gone. Kusum gets a new job of baby-sitting, but gets fired quickly for losing the baby while buying a toy as she kept the baby in baby-stroller outside the toy shop. Actually the baby has been kidnapped by Amit, Amit fetches the baby to Rakesh and tells that their days of hardship and starving are over because he will demand ransom from that baby's parents. Kusum notices that the baby was that baby for whom she was doing the baby-sitting job. Kusum takes the baby from Amit and goes to its parents' house to return it. Rakesh beats Amit and asks him who is Dilip. Amit replies that there is no one named Dilip, his own negative mentality is Dilip. Rakesh throws him out of the house and warns him not to come again.\n\nKusum loves Rakesh, she tells this to a dumb artist Arun (Arun Bakshi), a man whom both Rakesh and Kusum first met in a park.\n\nOnce Pratap tries to strangle Kusum in a stage play, later at night Pratap comes to Kusum's house and apologizes to her, Pratap tells her that he wants to marry her. Kusum agrees to marry to Pratap on a condition, and the condition is, Rakesh will have to be provided a job by Pratap's industrialist father Mohanlal Sharma (Ram Mohan). Rakesh does not take the job as he comes to know that Pratap is Mohanlal's son and Mohanlal tells that Kusum is his son's girlfriend. Pratap threatens to commit suicide if Kusum does not want to marry him. Kusum agrees, but later sees Rakesh singing in a park while on a drive with Pratap, she gets down from the car and tells Rakesh that she will abide by whatever he wants, meanwhile Pratap leaves that place angrily and starts driving his car, not taking Kusum.\n\nAmit is now a husband of a rich woman and Tilak has turned into a mad beggar. The film ends with Rakesh and Kusum hugging in the park. Pratap gives the neck-chain bought by himself for marriage with Kusum to a street-beggar as alms in hot temperament.\n\n\nThe soundtrack of this film was composed by Lakshmikant-Pyarelal and the lyrics were penned by Anand Bakshi.\n"}
