{"id": "1703740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703740", "title": "Big Trouble (2002 film)", "text": "Big Trouble (2002 film)\n\nBig Trouble is a 2002 American gangster comedy film based on the novel \"Big Trouble\" by Dave Barry. It was directed by Barry Sonnenfeld and featured a large cast including Tim Allen, Rene Russo, Dennis Farina, Zooey Deschanel, Sofia Vergara and Jason Lee. Like much of Dave Barry's fiction, it follows a diverse group of people through a series of extremely strange and humorous situations against the backdrop of Miami.\n\nIn a high-school game of \"\" (in which a student must shoot another with a squirt gun), Matt Arnold has to \"kill\" classmate Jenny Herk, and decides to sneak up on her at home. By coincidence, hitmen are also there to assassinate Arthur Herk, who has secretly embezzled money from his company, Penultra Corp. When the fake assassination attempt crosses paths with the real one, police officers Monica Romero and Walter Kramitz are called out to the resulting disturbance. During the chaos of the assassination attempts, Matt's friend, Andrew, called Eliot Arnold, Matt's father. Upon arriving to pick up Matt from the Herks', Eliot immediately feels a mutual attraction to Anne Herk, Jenny's mother, as Matt and Jenny begin to feel attracted to each other as well. The Herks' housemaid, Nina, meanwhile, falls in love with a young homeless man named Puggy, who lives in a tree on their property, after she runs from the shootings and he saves her from the hitmen.\n\nRealizing that he is the intended victim, Arthur visits arms dealers to buy a rocket but is sold a suitcase nuclear bomb because the dealer claims to be out of rockets and doesn't tell him that it is a nuclear weapon. Escaped convicts Snake and Eddie, who were previously kicked out of the bar for disorderly conduct, hold up the bar and kidnap Arthur and Puggy (who is an employee there) and take the suitcase, not knowing its contents.\n\nMeanwhile, Matt tries to \"kill\" Jenny in a mall parking lot, but a security guard thinks that Matt's gun is real and opens fire on them. Matt and Jenny run away and eventually return to the Herk house, followed by officers Monica and Walter, who stumble across the confusion. Eliot is called over once again.\n\nThe convicts force Arthur to return to his home, where they capture everyone and tie them up. Taking Puggy and kidnapping Jenny, they leave (with the suitcase) for the Airport. Nina, who was hiding in her room, frees everyone except for Monica and Arthur (who were handcuffed to an entertainment system). Shortly after, the house is visited by two FBI agents who are tracking the bomb. They free Monica and have her lead them to the airport (leaving Arthur, as he was poisoned by a hallucinogenic toad, causing him to think that his dog is possessed by Martha Stewart).\n\nThe criminals pass through security with Puggy and Jenny, where the bomb is inadvertently triggered and its 45-minute timer begins; Puggy manages to escape in the confusion of boarding the plane. The FBI agents tell everyone that unless the bomb is retrieved soon, the plane must be shot down. Puggy leads the group to the criminals' plane, which Eliot sneaks onto. Meanwhile, the two hitmen get out of the traffic jam (caused by Snake and Eddie) and reach the airport. They bump into Officer Romero, and Special Agents Greer and Seitz, knocking the hitmen's Remington sniper rifle out of their golf bag in the process. Romero grabs the rifle, removes its bolt (rendering it useless), and returns it.\n\nEliot, having sneaked onto the plane, attacks the criminals by knocking Eddie out with a fire extinguisher and blasting the extinguisher at Snake. On hearing the case is a bomb, Eliot hurls it out of the still open rear door, only for Snake to leap after it. In a memorable feat of dumb luck, Snake manages to cling onto the door's steps. Despite Eliot's insistence that the case is a bomb, Snake opens fire on him which prompts Eliot to pull the emergency lever which decouples the door. Snake plunges into the ocean with a defiant smile, still clinging to the bomb, which explodes safely in the water. Eliot is congratulated by the FBI, promised he will receive presidential cowboy boots and a hat, and told the events that took place are strictly top secret.\n\nThe last scene reveals what happens to the main characters: after chasing down a plane, subduing two criminals, and saving Miami from a nuclear disaster, Eliot finally won Matt's respect. Anne and Eliot get married a week after Anne gets divorced from Arthur. Walter, after a forced strip search by the airport guards, becomes a male stripper and marries. The two hitmen manage to escape Miami after a series of very weird events. They claim their Miami job was the lowest point in their careers. They were surrounded by the fans of Florida Gators on their plane home (which was a constant joke in the film). Eddie goes back to jail in a prison outside of Jacksonville, but becomes friends with another dimwitted inmate who shares the same affinity for crude jokes as Eddie does. Arthur is last seen still handcuffed and tormented by his dog.\n\n\n\"Big Trouble\" was originally scheduled for release on September 21, 2001, and had a strong advertising push. The September 11, 2001, attacks of that year made the film's comedic smuggling of a nuclear device onto an airplane unpalatable. Consequently, the film was pushed back until April 2002, and the promotion campaign was toned down almost to the point of abandonment. \"Big Trouble\" came quietly to American theaters and left quickly afterwards, receiving mixed reviews and being generally ignored by audiences, becoming a box office bomb. It currently holds a 48% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 112 reviews, with the consensus reading \"With its large cast and frantic comic pacing, Big Trouble labors for slapstick-style hilarity, but it never really gains steam.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9399857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9399857", "title": "Boris Shramko", "text": "Boris Shramko\n\nBoris Andriyovich Shramko (; born 1921 – 8 July 2012) was a Ukrainian historian and professor of history.\n\nExcavations at \"Bilske Horodyshche\" (Більське городище) near the village of Bilsk (between Poltava and Sumy) in the Ukraine have led to suggestions by archaeologist Boris Shramko and others identifying it as the Scythian capital Gelonus. It is strategically situated on the exact boundary between the steppe and forest-steppe.\n\n"}
{"id": "3405159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3405159", "title": "Brian Doherty (journalist)", "text": "Brian Doherty (journalist)\n\nBrian Doherty (born June 1, 1968) is an American journalist. He is a senior editor at \"Reason\" magazine.\n\nDoherty is the author of \"This Is Burning Man: The Rise of a New American Underground\" (Little, Brown, 2004), \"\" (PublicAffairs, 2007), \"Gun Control on Trial: Inside the Supreme Court Battle Over the Second Amendment\" (Cato Institute, 2008), and \"Ron Paul's Revolution: The Man and the Movement He Inspired\" (Broadside Books, 2012).\n\nDoherty has written articles published in dozens of newspapers and magazines, including the \"Washington Post\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Mother Jones\", \"Spin\", \"National Review\", the \"Weekly Standard\", and the \"San Francisco Chronicle\".\n\nBefore working for the Cato Institute in the early 1990s, Doherty served as an intern at \"Liberty Magazine\" and wrote on music and popular culture at \"The Independent Florida Alligator\". As a student at the University of Florida, where he received a degree in journalism, Doherty played bass in several punk rock bands, including The Jeffersons and Turbo Satan. He founded Cherry Smash Records in 1993.\n\nDoherty has said that he is a \"principled nonvoter\" who has \"been saved the embarrassment of ever having to feel any sense of responsibility, of even the smallest size, for the actions of any politician.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11204928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11204928", "title": "Camden Professor of Ancient History", "text": "Camden Professor of Ancient History\n\nThe Camden Professorship of Ancient History at the University of Oxford was established in 1622 by English antiquary and historian William Camden, Clarenceux King of Arms, and endowed with the income of the manor of Bexley, becoming the first and oldest chair of history in England. Since 1877 it has been attached to Brasenose College, and since 1910 it has been limited to Roman history.\n\nList of holders of the chair since its foundation:\n\n"}
{"id": "10253558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10253558", "title": "Ciudad Colonial (Santo Domingo)", "text": "Ciudad Colonial (Santo Domingo)\n\nCiudad Colonial (Spanish for \"Colonial City\") is the historic central neighborhood of Santo Domingo and the oldest permanent European settlement of the Americas. It has been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. It is also known as \"Zona Colonial\" (Colonial Zone) or more colloquially as \"La Zona\" (The Zone) . The Ciudad Colonial is located on the west bank of the Ozama River, which bisects the city. It covers bounded by a walled perimeter.\n\nIt is an important section of the city due to the high number of landmarks, including Alcázar de Colón, Fortaleza Ozama, Catedral de Santa María la Menor, and others.\n\nThe first settlement of what is now Santo Domingo was established by Bartholomew Columbus on the East bank of the Ozama River. After the 1502 hurricane that claimed Francisco de Bobadilla among its victims, however, the city was relocated on the West bank under the leadership of Nicolás de Ovando. Ovando and his successor Diego Colón presided over the first constructions of the Colonial City, many of which still exist today. Santo Domingo's fortifications were an important feature of the urban landscape. The defense wall (\"muralla\") extended from the Ozama River to the Puerta del Conde, which was the entrance to the hinterland and the Western boundary of the city until the late 19th century.\n\nThe Spaniards used this settlement as the first point of influence in the Americas, from which they conquered other Caribbean islands and much of the mainland of the Americas. Santo Domingo was initially the political and cultural hub of Spanish presence in the new world, but after a few decades started to decline as the Spaniards focused their attention more on the mainland after conquering Mexico, Peru, and other regions of Latin America. Ciudad Colonial nevertheless remained an important historical site.\n\nIn 1655, the Ciudad Colonial was submitted to a siege led by the English officers William Penn and Robert Venables. The 1655 invasion was thwarted by Spanish troops commanded by the Captain General of the Colony, Don Bernardino de Meneses y Bracamonte, Count of Peñalva, to whom the Puerta del Conde (\"Gate of the Count\") is named after. The defensive wall was modified during this episode. Prior to the invasion, there was a fort at the site where the Puerta del Conde is today, Fuerte San Genaro. It is believed that the modification that occurred after the siege involved the expansion of the wall to the fort, effectively creating a bastion, \"El Baluarte del Conde\".\n\nIn the late 19th century and early 20th century, the city started to expand beyond its old boundaries but the Ciudad Colonial remained the main hub of activity until the Trujillo era. Trujillo also presided over the restoration of major monuments, including the Alcázar de Colón in the early 1950s.\n\nThe Ciudad Colonial is now the main tourist attraction of Santo Domingo, even though the main sites of governmental and commercial activity are now in other parts of the city.\n\nThe central public space of the district is Parque Colon, a square that borders the 16th-century Cathedral and has a late-19th-century bronze statue of Christopher Columbus in its center. East of Parque Colón, the cobblestone Calle Las Damas is the New World's oldest paved street, dating from 1502. The street is bordered by many of the zone's more prominent landmarks, including Fortaleza Ozama, the site of major events in Dominican history; Casa de Bastidas, which now houses a children's museum; the French Embassy, in a building said to have been the house of Hernán Cortés; the Casa de Ovando, said to be the former residence of Governor Nicolás de Ovando and now a luxury hotel call Hodelpa Nicolas de Ovando; the National Pantheon of the Dominican Republic; and the Museo de las Casas Reales, in the former governors' palace and Audiencia building.\nCalle del Conde is a pedestrian-only street that includes several notable commercial buildings of the early 20th century and connects Parque Colon with the Puerta del Conde and Parque Independencia. Another traditional commercial district is the portion of Avenida Duarte just north of the Zona Colonial, which is currently undergoing a renovation plan that aims to make the area more appealing to tourists.\n\nOn the north end of Calle Las Damas, the restored and expanded Plaza de España is bordered by Las Atarazanas (former naval yard, now a museum) and a number of small shops and restaurants. This area was one of the first commercial centers in the Americas, and is still a hub of activity today. The Alcázar de Colón, having once been the colonial palace of the Columbus family—beginning with his son Diego—is now a museum displaying period furniture and decorations. The building was originally built in 1510, and restored to its current appearance in 1952.\n\nA 700 million US dollar investment was made in the Port of the Ozama river adjacent to the Ciudad Colonial aiming to turn Santo Domingo into a port of call for luxury cruise ships and including a privately owned marina. The project is being completed by Sans Soucí Ports S.A. It is hoped that this ambitious project will boost the attraction of the Ciudad Colonial and the rest of Santo Domingo to international tourists.\n\nIn the Ciudad Colonial there are different places built by the Spaniards during the colonial era, which together form more than 300 historical sites in the area; these include various monuments of cultural and historical character, as well as houses of great figures of the society of that time, but it can not fail to mention important streets, such as the Las Damas street. Some of these are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44974155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44974155", "title": "Colin François Lloyd Austin", "text": "Colin François Lloyd Austin\n\nColin François Lloyd Austin, FBA (26 July 1941 – 13 August 2010) was a British scholar of ancient Greek.\n\nColin Austin was born in Melbourne, Australia, in 1941, the second son of Lloyd James Austin (1915–1994) and of Jeanne-Françoise (\"née\" Guérin). A few years later the family moved to France and then to Great Britain.\nHe was educated at the Lycée Lakanal, Paris, Manchester Grammar School, Jesus College, Cambridge, and Christ Church, Oxford, where Sir Hugh Lloyd-Jones supervised his DPhil on Aristophanes. He won the Hallam Prize in 1961, the Browne Medal in 1961 and the Porson Prize in 1962. In 1969 he was appointed lecturer in the Faculty of Classics at Cambridge University and worked there as the Director of Studies in Classics until 2008. From 1998 to 2008 Austin was a full Professor of Greek. In 1983 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy\nHe died on 13 August 2010.\n\nColin Austin's main works were related to Thesmophoriazusae by Aristophanes and Menander. Austin's commentary on Thesmophoriazusae was published by the Oxford University Press in a 2004 edition co-edited by S. Douglas Olson. Austin was the first publisher (1967) of the new portion of Euripides' tragedy Erectheus, extracted from a mummy casing in Paris. He was also the first publisher (1969) of the first and third plays from the Bodmer Codex of Menander: Samia \"The Woman from Samos\", \"Aspis\", and \"The Shield\". In partnership with Rudolf Kassel, Austin started in 1983 the comprehensive edition of the Greek Comic Dramatists, \"Poetae Comici Graeci\". Volumes published up to 2001 provide some 4,500 pages of surviving texts of more than 250 authors with commentary.\n\n"}
{"id": "651358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651358", "title": "Credibility", "text": "Credibility\n\nCredibility comprises the objective and subjective components of the believability of a source or message.\n\nCredibility has two key components: trustworthiness and expertise, which both have objective and subjective components. Trustworthiness is based more on subjective factors, but can include objective measurements such as established reliability. Expertise can be similarly subjectively perceived, but also includes relatively objective characteristics of the source or message (e.g., credentials, certification or information quality). Secondary components of credibility include source dynamism (charisma) and physical attractiveness.\n\nCredibility online has become an important topic since the mid-1990s. This is because the web has increasingly become an information resource. The Credibility and Digital Media Project @ UCSB highlights recent and ongoing work in this area, including recent consideration of digital media, youth, and credibility. In addition, the Persuasive Technology Lab at Stanford University has studied web credibility and proposed the principal components of online credibility and a general theory called Prominence-Interpretation Theory.\n\nAccording to the Society of Professional Journalists code of ethics, professional integrity is the cornerstone of a journalist's credibility.\nA journalist's number one obligation is to be honest.\n\nAccording to Gallup polls, Americans' confidence in the mass media has been consistently declining each year since 2007.\n\nIn 2013, a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press found that credibility ratings for major news organizations are at or near their all-time lows.\n\n“As audiences lose confidence in traditional news outlets, many see great promise in the Internet as a response to this crisis in journalism.” \n\nThe widespread use of the internet has helped motivate journalists to become more credible. The reason for this is because the competition of providing news increased when consumers had the chance and ability to choose the media that they consume through online sources. The internet has provided a chance for anyone to report news. In order to increase credibility, and therefore increase readers of their articles, journalists should be objective, accurate, trustworthy, and reliable.\n\nThree aspects of credibility: clarity (how easily the article can be understood), accuracy (how well documented the information is), and trustworthiness (how believable the information is).\n\nStudents perception of instructors has great importance and possible consequences. Instructor credibility, which is defined as \"the attitude of a receiver which references the degree to which a source is seen to be believable\", consists of three dimensions-, competence, character, and caring. Competence focuses on his or her expertise or knowledge in a subject matter. Character refers to the \"goodness\" (i.e., honesty, trustworthiness) of an instructor. Caring focuses on whether the instructor shows concern or empathy for the students’ welfare or situation. Although an instructor may show one or two of these qualities, the best and most respected exude all three qualities. A study done by Anders and Bronicki revealed that students who are taught by a instructor they perceive as credible, results in extreme allegiance to those instructors.\n\nGenerally, instructors who are perceived to have credibility is typically associated with effective teaching skills. Instructors who demonstrate competence, character, and/or caring are perceived to engage in a variety of effective instructional communication behaviors such as argumentativeness, verbal and nonverbal immediacy, affinity seeking, and assertiveness and responsiveness. Moreover, credible instructors are perceived to be low in verbal aggressiveness and less likely to use behaviors that interfere with student learning.\n\nUnlike instructor competence which centers on instructors' perceived expertise, instructor character and caring are rooted in students' perceptions of their instructors' interpersonal communication behaviors. Students can feel more connected to the material being taught and have the information stay in their mind, if the instructor sharing the information has credibility. According to studies, when instructors exemplify the qualities of character (i.e., kind, virtuous, good) and caring (i.e., empathetic, understanding, responsive), students report a greater likelihood of communicating with them.\n\nTeachers who are concerned with whether students communicate with them, either in class or out of class, may want to reconsider the role their own in-class communication behaviors play in students' willingness or likelihood to communicate with them. Instructors who are interested in how students perceive their competence, character, and caring should examine how their in-class communication behaviors contribute to these perceptions. They can evaluate themselves, go back over their lectures, scores that students give them at the end of the semester, and seek advice and training from their peers. By doing so, instructors may find students are more willing, likely, or interested in communicating with them.\n\"Scientific credibility\" has been defined as the extent to which science in general is recognized as a source of reliable information about the world. The term has also been applied more narrowly, as an assessment of the credibility of the work of an individual scientist or a field of research. Here, the phrase refers to how closely the work in question adheres to scientific principles, such as the scientific method. The method most commonly used to assess the quality of science is peer review and then publication as part of the scientific literature. Other approaches include the collaborative assessment of a topic by a group of experts, this process can produce reviews such as those published by the Cochrane Collaboration, or the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.\n\nThe general public can give a great deal of weight to perceptions of scientific authority in their decisions on controversial issues that involve scientific research, such as biotechnology. However, both the credibility and authority of science is questioned by groups with non-mainstream views, such as some advocates of alternative medicine, or those who dispute the scientific consensus on a topic, such as denialists of AIDS and of evolution .\n\nPeople rely on doctors' expertise to respond to issues relating to their health. Trust in a doctor’s credibility is essential to a patient's health: depending on the patient’s trust in the doctor they will be more or less willing to seek help, reveal sensitive information, submit to treatment, and follow the doctor’s recommendations. According to numerous studies, done over 15 years we can conclude that we see a doctor’s credibility as having five overlapping characteristics: Fidelity, which is caring and advocating for the patient’s interests or welfare and avoiding conflicts of interest; competence, which is having good practice and interpersonal skills, making correct decisions, and avoiding mistakes; honesty, which is telling the truth and avoiding intentional falsehoods; confidentiality, which is proper use of sensitive information; and global trust, which is the irreducible “soul” of trust, or aspects that combine elements from some or all of the separate dimensions.\n\nIn general, it is easy to see what patients are looking for when it comes to a trustworthy doctor and the best way they can have their needs satisfied. There does seem to be a growing discontent with the medical field, however, because of for-profit drug companies that are influencing money behind the medical field. In 2002 a doctor attended the hearings of a drug company that was on trial for the death of adolescents who committed suicide while taking their antidepressants. Before the hearing studies had been filed with the FDA under the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act of 2002. These studies reflected a congressional effort to motivate drug companies to study the effects of medications on children. Since children are a much smaller market for new drugs, the pharmaceutical industry was suspected to not study them as much. The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act of 2002 was meant to strengthen drug companies credibility by rewarding those that performed pediatric studies. The law, however, did not require these pediatric studies performed to be publicized or published \n\nAccording to a \"New England Journal of Medicine\" study, 94% of American doctors have some relationship with a drug or medical device company, including payments but also drug samples and industry lunches, for example. Such alarming evidence is what has prompted a growing mistrust in medical professionals credibility. Despite the studies conducted intended on finding out how to increase doctors' credibility, the findings are inconclusive. It is a strong general consensus that increased visibility of the relationship between doctors and pharmaceutical companies is the first place to start.\n\nWe are seeing some progress towards transparency. The US Open Payments Act (Physician Payments Sunshine Act) has from October 2014 required drug companies to disclose payments to doctors, but it’s still does not give total transparency. There is a long way to go in establishing trust and credibility behind what the doctors recommend to patients. Being honest and showing that they are acting off their expertise instead of motivated by incentives given by pharmaceutical companies.\n\nStreet credibility or \"street cred\" is the degree to which someone's word can be believed by the person on the street. Corporations have gone through their own ways of getting street credibility; however, it goes by a different name: branding. This is a process in which companies spend billions of dollars a year and it is meant to convey information about a product, who is using it, and why you should too. They are targeting certain individuals as to increase their ability to grow their “street cred” so that the growth doesn’t end. From clothing to food, branding is used to assist companies improve their street cred and better sell a product.\n\nThe CEO of the company is the face of what the public sees. A CEO helps illustrates the organization’s internal and external shareholders. CEOs are spokesmen who are actively visible and shape the corporate image. The role of the CEO is to influence employees' attitudes, perceptions, and performances through example of leadership and support.\n\nCEO credibility is essentially made up of two important factors: knowing what you are talking about, or expertise; and being able to be trusted, or trustworthiness. One of the ways that a CEO’s expertise is measured is by the way his/her employees perceive them. If the CEO is seen as someone to whom the employees can go to for knowledge and help, this goes to show they have confidence that the CEO holds the skills necessary to help, and is thus valued in their position as such. The extent to which the employee gives their confidence to the CEO determines the CEO’s trustworthiness. An employee may totally embrace or quietly set aside the message of the CEO, these results measure the degree of trustworthiness there is in the CEO. The whole reputation of the organization represented by the CEO is built mainly by the experience of the employees as time passes. This reputation is carefully built by many factors experienced by the employees such as the actual services or products provided, certain money makers, work atmosphere, social aspects related to work and the overall foresight and ability to lead in a successful manner.\n\nThere is a natural connection link between the CEO and the organization. A CEO's credibility affects how employees view the organization's image. Employees who perceive the CEO as more qualified, competent, knowledge, possessing more expertise, and skills tend to view the organizational reputation more positively. Employees who view the CEO as more honest and trustworthy tend to evaluate the organization in a positive manner.\n\nThe employees view of the organization completely intervenes the positive relationship between the CEO credibility and the employee’s involvement of engagement. Although the CEO's credibility positively affects employee engagement, the actual impact is exercised by the employee's view of the organization’s reputation.\n\nJürgen Habermas in his theory of \"communicative action\" developed four validity claims (\"truth\", \"sincerity\", \"appropriateness\" and \"understandability\") leading to the concept of \"credibility\".\n\nIn a different study researchers empirically validated the claims and derived a two-phase model of \"reporting credibility\", where first of all \"understandability\" needs to be reached. Only then the three other validity claims make a difference and may lead to credibility in the Habermasian sense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7375491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7375491", "title": "Cueva de los Tayos", "text": "Cueva de los Tayos\n\nCueva de los Tayos (Spanish, \"Cave of the Oilbirds\") is a natural cave located on the eastern slopes of the Andes mountains in the Morona-Santiago province of Ecuador. It is sometimes called Cueva de los Tayos de Coangos (the Río Coangos is nearby), presumably to distinguish it from other oilbird-containing caves with similar names.\n\nCueva de los Tayos is located in the high rainforest, 2 km south of the Santiago River, and 800 m west of Coangos River. According to the last GPS measurement in 2008, its altitude is 539 m above sea level. Located at an elevation of about 800 m within thinly-bedded limestone and shale, the principal entrance to Cueva de Los Tayos is within a rainforest at the bottom of a dry valley. The largest of three entrances is a 65-meter-deep shaft leading to 4.6 kilometers of spacious passages and a chamber measuring 90 meters by 240 meters. The cave has a vertical range of 201 meters with its lowest point ending in a sump.\n\nThe cave has long been used by the native Shuar Indians who descend into the cave each spring using vine ladders and bamboo torches to collect fledgeling tayos (the nocturnal \"Steatornis caripensis\"). Written references to the cave go back as far as 1860 and it is known to have been visited by gold-seekers and military personnel in the 1960s.\n\nActually, the cave is located inside the Sindical Center Coangos (formed by native people). So, the cave belongs to the independent territory of the Shuar-Arutam.\n\nToday, access to the cave is restricted. It is necessary to obtain permission (access and temporary visit) and pay a tax (in order to improve life-condition of the communities) in Sucúa, Ecuador, at Shuar Center Federation. (FICSH: \"Federación Interprovincial de Centros Shuar\")\n\nThe cave was popularized by Erich von Däniken's 1973 book \"The Gold of the Gods\", in which he wrote that János Juan Móricz (1923–1991) had claimed to have explored Cueva de los Tayos in 1969 and discovered mounds of gold, unusual sculptures and a metallic library. These items were said to be located within artificial tunnels that had been created by a lost civilization with help from extraterrestrial beings. Von Däniken had previously claimed in book \"Chariots of the Gods?\" that extraterrestrials were involved in ancient civilizations.\n\nAs a result of the claims published in von Däniken’s book, an investigation of Cueva de los Tayos was organized by Stan Hall of the United Kingdom, in 1976. One of the largest and most expensive cave explorations ever undertaken, the expedition involved over a hundred people, including experts in a variety of fields, British and Ecuadorian military personnel, a film crew, and former astronaut Neil Armstrong. The team also included eight experienced British cavers who thoroughly explored the cave and conducted an accurate survey to produce a detailed map of it. There was no evidence of Von Däniken’s more exotic claims, although some physical features of the cave did approximate his descriptions and some items of zoological, botanical, and archaeological interest were found. The lead researcher met with Moricz's indigenous source, who claimed that they had investigated the wrong cave, and that the real cave was secret.\n\nOn 31 January 2018, Tayos Cave was featured on the 6th episode of the 4th season of \"Expedition Unknown\", titled \"Hunt for the Metal Library\". Explorer Josh Gates and his team, helped by local Shuar Indians and Eileen Hall, daughter of Stan Hall of the earlier expedition, headed to Ecuador to explored the watery depths of the cavern.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36850340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36850340", "title": "Daensen folding chair", "text": "Daensen folding chair\n\nThe Daensen folding chair consists of the metallic remains of a folding chair which were discovered in 1899 in sand from a Bronze Age tumulus near Daensen, a part of Buxtehude, Lower Saxony, Germany. The chair is the southernmost and most richly decorated example of the eighteen known folding chairs of the Nordic Bronze Age in Northern Europe. The fittings, along with a reconstruction, are in the permanent exhibition of the Archaeological Museum Hamburg in Harburg, Hamburg.\n\nThe tumulus is located in a prominent location about 300 meters northwest of the village Daensen, at in open countryside owned by former farmer and municipal mayor Eickhoff. The Bronze Age tumulus is known as or and according to local legend, contains the remains of a Chauci prince called Baak. or Back Before 1897, half of the northern mound was removed for sand extraction. In the centre of the mound Eickhoff's workers discovered a rectangular stone packing of boulders. Inside they found bones and a complete human skull. The workers gave the bones to a dog. Their work was witnessed by the Moisburg pastor Wittkopf who noted his observations in his Parishs book of accounts: \n\nIn 1899 sand was again removed from the mound again, and this time the workers discovered a second stone circle. In its interior they found several bronze fitting and partially gold decorated fittings, including two long stripes with gold inlays, which they broke into several pieces. In November 1899 Eickhoff forwarded a part of the fitting along with a ribbed armring of bronze to the museum. In 1934 the museum's director Willi Wegewitz acquired the remaining fittings from Eickhoff's sons, for the museum.\n\nThe remains of the folding chair consist of four bronze knobs with diameters of with long spouts and a total length of . The end caps are ribbed and their faces decorated with a pattern of four concentric circles. A cast loop with a diameter of supports a ring of diameter with four rattle long plates. These components were attached to the frame of the seat. Two small knobs with diameters and lengths of were found among the baseboards of the stool. Most likely the stool had originally four of these knobs, the other two being presumed lost. There were also four bronze studs with gold plated heads. The nail heads are in diameter and have a pin length of . Three figure-eight shaped bronze fittings of length, width and thicknesses of with line ornaments wearing a gold metal insert at the waist. The gold plate was fixed by two fine incisions in the bronze fitting and then folded on the reverse. Two rectangular bronze plates of in length, in width and about thickness are entirely covered with gold foil and bent around the edges for fixation. Furthermore, there are five rectangular fitting plates whose broken edges were put together. It is most likely that some of their fragments are still missing. Only a few organic components were preserved, one is a piece of leather, and there were seven or eight pieces of wood, one of ash, the other of maple. Among the pieces of wood, there is a corner piece and one with the mounting of the seat's leather. The remains of the chair have been typologically dated to 1400 BC.\nCompared to earlier previous finds from grave mounds and tree coffin burials in Denmark, Sweden, Schleswig-Holstein and Mecklenburg the present metal objects were identified as fitting parts of a folding chair typically for the Nordic Bronze Age. These numerous comparative findings in connection with the survived wooden structures of the Vamdrup folding chair found at Guldhøj in the Danish municipality of Ribe in 1891 allowed a precise reconstruction of the Daensen folding chair.\n\nDue to the improper excavation and documentation of the find, precise statements about the archaeological context are not possible. The chair is the most magnificent decorated folding chair of the Nordic Bronze Age. This type of chair, or their fittings is present in 17 comparable finds. The remains of two folding chair fittings originate from hoards, all the rest were grave goods from tree coffin or grave mound burials. Given the role of the stool in placing the sitter above others who are seated on the floor, it is possible that the individual buried in Daensen was a high-ranking person, a chieftain or religious official. The absence of further grave goods may indicate that the grave had been raided by antique grave robbers. Comparably equipped graves with folding chairs typically included additional offerings such as weapons, jewellery, and household items, which are absent in Daensen. The ribbed bronze arm bracelet provided by farmer Eickhoff to the museum must come from a female burial, supporting the interpretation of the burial of a religious leader. Similar folding chairs originate from Ancient Egypt, whose most famous specimen comes from Tutankhamun's tomb of 1330 BC, demonstrating the extensive international connections of the later Bronze Age. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52018176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52018176", "title": "Edith Hall Dohan", "text": "Edith Hall Dohan\n\nEdith Hayward Hall Dohan (1877–1943) (born Edith Hayward Hall) was an American archaeologist who earned Bryn Mawr College's first classical archaeology Ph.D. She was the second of four children with a father who attended Yale University. She received her B.A. from Smith College. After her Ph.D. she taught at Mount Holyoke College and spent time, after marriage, to her children. Her 1907 dissertation focused on art in Bronze Age Crete. She later went on to do noteworthy work on ancient Greece and at points visited Crete. Later in life she became interested in the Etruscan civilization. She published an important corpus of Italic tomb groups held in the collection of the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology.\n\nDohan was awarded the Agnes Hoppin Memorial Fellowship of the American School of Classical Studies in Athens in 1903.\n"}
{"id": "26985385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26985385", "title": "Effects of the April 2010 Eyjafjallajökull eruption", "text": "Effects of the April 2010 Eyjafjallajökull eruption\n\nThe eruption of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano in Iceland on 20th March 2010 affected the economic, political and cultural activities in Europe and across the world.\n\nThere was an extensive air travel disruption caused by the closure of airspace over many countries affecting the travel arrangements of hundreds of thousands of people in Europe and elsewhere. Sporting, entertainment and many other events were cancelled, delayed or disrupted when individuals or teams were unable to travel to their destination.\n\nThe state funeral of Lech Kaczyński and Maria Kaczyńska on 18 April 2010 was affected as some national leaders were unable to attend, including Barack Obama, Stephen Harper, Angela Merkel, and Nicolas Sarkozy.\n\nAir travel and transport throughout the world was cancelled due to the airspace restrictions and the International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimated the airline industry worldwide would lose £130 million ($200 million) a day as a result. IATA stated that the total loss for the airline industry was around US$1.7 billion (£1.1 billion, €1.3 billion). The Airport Operators Association (AOA) estimated that airports lost £80 million over the six-and-a-half days. Over 95,000 flights had been cancelled all across Europe during the six-day travel ban, with later figures suggesting 107,000 flights cancelled during an 8-day period, accounting for 48% of total air traffic and roughly 10 million passengers.\n\nFollowing Air France-KLM's and British Airways' requests to the European Union, and additionally in the latter's case to the British government, for compensation, Gordon Brown announced that the EU Solidarity fund, designed to aid EU member states in the event of large-scale disasters, could be a possible source of compensation. The EU's competition commissioner, Joaquin Almunia, also said the EU was considering easing its rules on governmental subsidies to airlines. Late in April 2010, EU Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said that governments would reimburse airlines for losses incurred, however the Irish Minister for Transport Noel Dempsey said that Ireland would not do so due to the financial crisis.\n\nFollowing the travel disruption, EU ministers agreed to accelerate the integration of national air traffic control systems into the Single European Sky and also to the immediate creation of a crisis coordination group to handle future transport disruptions.\n\nSeveral sectors that depend on air freighted imports and exports were badly affected by the flight disruptions. Shortages of imported flowers, fruits and electronic hardware were reported in the immediate days after the disruption. Exports of information technology hardware were also affected as firms were unable to ship their product out.\n\nThe pharmaceuticals industry expected to be hit by spoilage concerns as the stock they manufacture in the UK is time sensitive, and expires quickly, while not being able to ship to overseas customers. Imports of medications were affected, and local stocks, as they expire.\n\nBusiness people and officials expressed concerns about imports of fresh food and other essential goods into the United Kingdom.\n\nFedEx, DHL Express and other logistics companies were unable to transport goods by air. Instead they had to transport packages to alternate destination (such as Istanbul or Madrid) and then ship by road to the final destination.\n\nTravel firm TUI Travel reported losses of per day during the airspace closure due to travellers being unable to return home.\n\nThe carmaker BMW said it was suspending production at three of its plants in Germany, because of interruptions in the supply of parts. As waylaid travellers scrambled for other modes of transport, ferry and railway companies enjoyed an unexpected bonanza, while some car-hire firms were reportedly hiking charges.\n\nIn the United Kingdom alone thirteen travel firms collapsed during the summer of 2010. The ash cloud disruption was cited as one of the contributing factors.\n\nKenya is reported to have destroyed 400 tonnes of flowers it was unable to airship into the UK on 19 and 20 April 2010. As a result, their economy was estimated to be incurring losses of $3.8m each day of the disruption. Thousands of Kenyan farm workers were temporarily laid off as harvesting of flowers and vegetables was stopped by 19 April due to the grounding of flights. The Kenya Flower Council said 3,000 tonnes of flowers were destroyed and the Fresh Produce Exporters Association of Kenya called the situation \"disastrous\".\n\nZambia's flower and vegetable industry lost about $150,000 (£98,000) a day. Other African industries, such as Uganda's fish and flower export businesses, were also affected by the lack of air freight.\n\nNissan declared a suspension in the production of three models in Japan on 21 April 2010 because supply of parts has been disrupted. It stopped production of 2,000 vehicles in two plants. Honda also announced a partial halt to production. Factories in China's Guangdong province saw air shipments of clothes and jewellery delayed. In South Korea, Samsung and LG were unable to air-freight more than 20% of their daily electronics exports and the Federation of Hong Kong Industries said hotels and restaurants in Hong Kong were facing shortages of European produce.\n\nThe New Zealand fisheries economy was helped by the disruption caused to air transport in Europe. Difficulties in bringing fresh salmon to international markets normally supplied by Norway and other northern European states have substantially boosted orders for New Zealand salmon.\nSimilarly the Netherlands is unable to supply orchids for the start of the May wedding market in North America.\n\nA number of world leaders and politicians had to postpone planned trips or were diverted and delayed due to the closure of airports and airspace:\n\nThe funeral of President of Poland Lech Kaczyński and his wife, who died on 10 April 2010 in a plane crash in Smolensk, took place on 18 April. Due to the disruptions in travel, several national leaders cancelled their plans to attend, including Barack Obama, Stephen Harper, Angela Merkel, and Nicolas Sarkozy. Presidential aide Jacek Sasin initially said a postponement until later that day or even the following day was a \"very serious alternative\", but it was later announced that the funeral would take place as planned. On 17 April, delegations from India, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand and Pakistan confirmed they would not attend. Obama released a statement on Saturday afternoon saying that he would not be able to attend the funeral due to the traffic disruptions. He stated, in a phone call to acting President Bronisław Komorowski, \"Michelle and I continue to have the Polish people in our thoughts and prayers...\"\n\nThe travel plans of members of European royal families from countries such as the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and Spain were cancelled they had intended to travel to Copenhagen to celebrate the 70th birthday of Denmark's Queen Margrethe. The Dutch, Norwegian, and Swedish royal families changed their plans from air to car or rail.\n\nThe British Royal Family's travel plans were disrupted, including the cancellation of the Prince of Wales's attendance at the state funeral of the Polish president and first lady, and the Princess Royal's plan to visit Halifax, Nova Scotia for a Canadian Forces celebration, scheduled for 21 April.\n\nThe Forecasting Economic Support Group of ICAO's Committee on Aviation Environment Protection postponed a planned summit in Bern as North American and Scandinavian members would be unable to attend. It caused a huge economic failure.\n\nThe repatriation of five German Bundeswehr soldiers wounded in action on 15 April 2010 in Afghanistan had to be postponed due to the closing of the German airspace.The MEDEVAC plane carrying them from Termez Airbase was rerouted to Istanbul where they are to be treated pending further developments.\n\nOn 20 April 2010, it was reported that around 160 Irish troops, mainly from Dublin and Dundalk and from the Eastern Brigade and due to return home on a chartered plane from a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, were stranded in the Balkans due to the travel disruption. They remained at Camp Clarke outside Pristina.\n\nThe disruption had effects on the arts worldwide, with many events subject to cancellations.\n\nOne of the early widely reported incidents was the trouble of actor/comedian John Cleese, who spent 30,000 Norwegian kroner (roughly £3,300) on a taxi journey from Oslo to Brussels after his flight from Norway was cancelled. He had been appearing on \"Skavlan\". The 1,500 kilometre journey lasted around 15 hours, and Cleese passed through Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium during his journey.\n\nEighty-three-year-old naturalist and television presenter Sir David Attenborough and his crew, who had reached the North Pole to film the upcoming BBC nature series \"The Frozen Planet\", were stranded in the Norwegian Arctic territory of Svalbard when the volcanic ash forced air space closure. BBC executives expressed concern that Attenborough's crew would lack food and supplies if they were unable to leave the location, which they reached in a private plane.\n\nRobert Downey Jr., Gwyneth Paltrow, Demi Moore and American band The Drums were unable to make their scheduled appearance on \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\" on 23 April due to the flight disruption, The \"Iron Man 2\" World Premiere in the UK in relation to Downey Jr. and Paltrow's appearance was also moved to LA from London.\n\nSome British musical acts scheduled to perform at the 2010 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in California, including Bad Lieutenant, Gary Numan, Delphic, Frightened Rabbit, Talvin Singh and The Cribs and the American group Hypnotic Brass Ensemble (who were touring in Europe) encountered flight cancellations, jeopardizing their scheduled slots, all of them eventually cancelling their performances.\n\nCarnegie Hall cancelled a concert of the works of Louis Andriessen because pianist Gerard Bouwhuis was stranded in Amsterdam and the Bang on a Can All-Stars were unable to leave Frankfurt.\n\nThe Yehudi Menuhin International Competition for Young Violinists, held in Oslo, Norway was also affected, it was scheduled to begin on 16 April but was postponed until 18 April due to traffic disruption.\n\nThe appearance of pop singer Annie Lennox on the special \"Idol Gives Back\" episode of \"American Idol\" on 21 April was affected. Originally, Lennox was to have appeared at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium, near Los Angeles, to perform \"Universal Child\" as part of the charity fundraiser. However, since she could not travel to LA, Lennox instead recorded the song at a television studio in London, and the tape was played back on the live broadcast. The orchestra accompanied the song live as if she was actually there.\n\nThe 2013 French comedy film \"Eyjafjallajökull\" is a road movie starting when a divorced couple is forced to drive across Europe due to the cancellation of their flight.\n\nThe flight disruptions also led to a number of sporting fixtures being postponed or canceled as teams could not fly to their fixtures. The 2010 Japanese motorcycle Grand Prix, scheduled to be the second round of the Grand Prix motorcycle racing season was postponed until 2 October 2010, as the majority of teams were unable to travel to the circuit from their European bases.\n\nOther events which were disrupted due to participants being unable to attend include:\n\nSome events were not disrupted but the participants had to make significant alternate travel plans to fulfill the fixture. The UEFA Champions League semi-final teams FC Barcelona and Olympique Lyonnais travelled by coach to their matches with Inter Milan and Bayern Munich respectively and in the Europa League both English travelling teams, Liverpool and Fulham had to make long journeys by coach, train and Eurostar to reach their respective destinations in Madrid and Hamburg.\n\nThe eruption impacted a record-breaking round-the-world flight led by Captain Riccardo Mortara. His private plane was due to land in Keflavik, Iceland, but with runways shut down was forced to abort at the last minute, costing his historic speed flight four to five hours.\n\nThe volcano released approximately 1.5x10^8 kilograms of CO each day, but the massive reduction of air travel occurring over European skies caused by the ash cloud, saved an estimated 1.3 to 2.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere by 19 April 2010.\n\nResidents of West London under the Heathrow Airport flight path have described the peace as 'bliss'. John Stewart of the Heathrow Association for the Control of Aircraft Noise said they had been inundated with emails and phone calls and said \"The message is that this is what life should be like. The peace and quiet is absolutely wonderful.\" Christine Shilling, of the No Third Runway Action Group, who lives in nearby Harmondsworth, said: \"I've lived here more than 40 years and I've never known such peace.\" Jenny Tonge, president of HACAN Clearskies, life peer and former Liberal Democrat MP for Richmond Park in London said \"Dare we hope that it will finally lay the Third Runway at Heathrow to rest and concentrate government minds on more environmentally friendly and sustainable forms of transport?\"\n"}
{"id": "3088053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088053", "title": "Era (geology)", "text": "Era (geology)\n\nA geologic era is a subdivision of geologic time that divides an eon into smaller units of time. The Phanerozoic Eon is divided into three such time frames: the Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic (meaning \"old life\", \"middle life\" and \"recent life\") that represent the major stages in the macroscopic fossil record. These eras are separated by catastrophic extinction boundaries, the P-T boundary between the Paleozoic and the Mesozoic and the K-Pg boundary between the Mesozoic and the Cenozoic. There is evidence that catastrophic meteorite impacts played a role in demarcating the differences between the eras.\n\nThe Hadean, Archean and Proterozoic eons were as a whole formerly called the Precambrian. This covered the four billion years of Earth history prior to the appearance of hard-shelled animals. More recently, however, the Archean and Proterozoic eons have been subdivided into eras of their own.\n\nGeologic eras are further subdivided into geologic periods, although the Archean eras have yet to be subdivided in this way.\n\n"}
{"id": "1664832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1664832", "title": "Eurolinguistics", "text": "Eurolinguistics\n\nEurolinguistics is a neologistic term for the study of the languages of Europe.\nThe term \"Eurolinguistics\" was first used by Norbert Reiter in 1991 (German equivalent: \"Eurolinguistik\"). \nApart from a series of works dealing with only a part of the European languages, the work of Harald Haarmann pursues a \"pan- or trans-European perspective\". This goal is also pursued by Mario Wandruszka.\n\nTypological questions have mainly been dealt with by the \"Eurolinguistischer Arbeitskreis Mannheim (ELAMA; led by Per Sture Ureland)\" and the \"EUROTYP\" projects. Important sources of linguistic data for Eurolinguistic studies are the \"Atlas Linguarum Europae\" (for vocabulary studies) and the \"World Atlas of Linguistic Structures\" (Haspelmath et al. 2005, for grammar studies).\n\nThe internet platform \"EuroLinguistiX (ELiX)\" (edited by Joachim Grzega) offers a bibliography of Eurolinguistic publications as well as a wiki, a discussion forum, an academic internet journal in order to address also aspects of \"linguistic and cultural history\", \"sociology of languages\", \"language politics\" and \"intercultural communication\". In 2006, Joachim Grzega published a basic reader on common features of European languages.\n\nAlso joint with the \"ELAMA\", the \"EuroLSJ project\" by Erhard Steller tries to collect essential results of Eurolinguistics and make them usable for everyday life in Europe by transforming them into a representative standard language (\"LSJ European / Europé LSJ\") which wants to serve as an optimized \"acquisition and memory helper\" (Giuseppe G. Castorina) for a quicker and easier access to all languages of Europe.\n\nWriting was introduced by the Greeks and from there also brought to the Romans (6th century BC). There are five alphabets in regular use in the areas generally considered Europe. The Latin alphabet was developed into several scripts. In the early years of Europe, the Carolingian minuscules were the most important variety of the Latin script. From this two branches developed, the Gothic/Fracture/German tradition, which Germans used well into the 20th century, and the Italian/Italic/Antiqua/Latin tradition, still used. For some nations the integration into Europe meant giving up older scripts, e.g. the Germanic gave up the runes (Futhark) (3rd to 17th centuries), the Irish the Ogham script (4th to 7th centuries). The Cyrillic script is the second most widespread alphabet in Europe, and was developed in the 9th century under the influence of the Greek, Latin and Glagolitic alphabets. Both the Latin and Cyrillic alphabets are used for multiple languages in multiple states, both inside and outside Europe. As well as these two, there are three alphabets used primarily for a single language, although they are occasionally applied to minority languages in the states from which they originate. The oldest of these alphabets is the Greek alphabet, which could be considered the progenitor of all the surviving alphabets of Europe, with the earliest recorded inscriptions appearing in the 9th century BC. The other two are both found in the Caucasus, both originating in the 5th century. The Georgian alphabet is used primarily to write Georgian, though it is also used to write the other Kartvelian languages, Svan, Mingrelian and Laz, all of which are found largely within the borders of Georgia. The Armenian alphabet is used to write the Armenian language, which has two dialects, and has been used to write Turkish in the past.\n\nThe sound systems of languages may differ considerably between languages. European languages can thus rather be characterized negatively, e.g. by the absence of click sounds. One could also think of specific prosodic features, such as tonal accents. But there are also tonal languages in Europe: Serbian and Croatian (e.g. \"lètī\" ‘he flies, is flying’ with long rising accent vs. \"lêta\" ‘years’ with long falling accent) and Slovene (e.g. \"sûda\" ‘of the vessel’ with long falling accent vs. \"súda\" ‘of the court’ with long rising accent). In Slovene, the use of the musical accent is declining though (cf. Rehder 1998: 234) --but there are hardly any contexts where intelligibility is endangered. In Sweden Swedish (but not in Finland Swedish) there also is a pitch accent in some words, which can be meaningful, e.g. \"´anden\" ‘the duck’ vs. \"ˇanden\" ‘the ghost, spirit’.\n\nAs a general introductory remark we can distinguish between three structural types of languages: \nEuropean languages are seldom pure representatives of one type. For (a) Modern English is a good example (and in many way the code oral of French verbs); for (c) Old English and Modern High German are good examples (and in many ways the code écrit of French verb forms); classical representatives of type (b) are Finnish and Hungarian. If a language is not isolating, this does not necessarily mean that it has no word-order rules. Latin, Basque, Finnish and the Slavic languages have a relatively free word order, whereas many languages show more restricted rules. German and Dutch, e.g., show verb-second word-order in main clauses and verb-final order in subordinate clauses. English has subject-verb word-order, which is also preferred by the Romanic languages. Irish and Scottish Gaelic have a basic verb-initial word order.\n\nWe can also distinguish between analytic constructions (with free grammatical morphemes, i.e. grammatical elements as separate words) and synthetic constructions (with bound grammatical morphemes, i.e. grammatical elements attached to or included in a word), e.g. \"the house of the man\" vs. \"the man's house\".\n\nApart from the points already mentioned, the categories of aspect (not always easy to separate from the tense system) and gender are noteworthy. Under the category of aspect linguists basically understand the distinction between perfective actions (activity finished, has led to a result; single event) and imperfective actions (activity not yet finished, w/out information on termination; long duration, repetitive). The Slavic languages have a fine and rigid aspect system; in English there’s the distinction between progressive and non-progressive (simple) and a distinction between present perfect and past; in the Romanic languages the imperfect serves to denote background actions.\n\nThe most current gender systems in Europe are twofold (masculine vs. feminine, e.g. in the Romanic languages, or uter vs. neuter, e.g. in Swedish and Danish); but there are also languages that are threefold (e.g. Slavic, German) or lack grammatical gender at all (e.g. English, Hungarian, Finnish). The problem of gender also concerns the system of personal pronouns. We normally distinguish between three persons singular and three persons plural, but there are also some languages that have specific words for the dual (e.g. Slovene). In the 3rd person singular we often have a distinction according to grammatical gender; in English, though, the choice is determined by natural gender; in Hungarian and Finnish we have no differentiation at all, in the Scandinavian languages on the other hand we have a differentiation that incorporate both grammatical and natural gender. In some languages the grammatical gender is also relevant in the 3rd pl. (e.g. the Romance languages).\n\nWhereas traditionally we group languages according to historical language families (e.g. Indo-European languages, Uralic languages), a more modern way is to look at grammatical features from a synchronic point of view. A certain number of common structural features would then characterize a sprachbund. For Europe, the most prominent sprachbund that we can determine is referred to as SAE (= Standard Average European) or Charlemagne sprachbund. Haspelmath (2001) illustrates that German, Dutch, French, Occitan and Northern Italian are the most central members of this sprachbund. Important features are (cf., e.g., Haspelmath 2001, Heine/Kuteva 2006): \n\nLatin, French and English not only served or still serve as \"linguae francae\" (cf. below), but also influenced the vernacular/national languages due to their high prestige. Due to this prestige, there are not only “necessity loans”, but also “luxury loans” and pseudo-loans. Many loans from these three languages (esp. Neo-Latin with its Greek elements) can be considered internationalisms, although occasionally the meanings vary from one language to another, which might even lead to misunderstandings. Examples: \n\nThree minor source languages for European borrowings are Arabic (esp. in mathematics and science, foreign plants and fruits), Italian (esp. in arts, esp. from the 15th to the 17th centuries), German (esp. in arts, education, mining, trading from the 12th to the 20th centuries with alternating importance).\n\nAs far as the structuring or “wording” of the world is concerned changes occur relatively fast due to progresses in knowledge, sociopolitical changes etc. Lexical items that seem more conservative are proverbs and metaphorical idioms. Many European proverbs and idioms go back to Antiquity and the Bible, some originate in national stories and were spread over other languages via Latin. A typical European proverb to express that there is no profit without working can be paraphrased as “Roasted pigeons/larks/sparrows/geese/chickens/birds don’t fly into one’s mouth”, e.g. Cz. \"Pečeni ptáci nelítají do huby (birds!)\" = Dan. \"Stegte duer flyve ingen i munden (pigeon!)\" = ndl. \"De gebraden duiven vliegen je niet in de mond (pigeons!)\" = E. \"He thinks that larks will fall into his mouth roasted\" = Finn. \"Ei paistetut varpuset suuhun lennä (sparrows!)\" = Fr. \"Les alouettes ne vous tombent pas toutes rôties dans le bec (larks!)\" = G. \"Gebratene Tauben fliegen einem nicht ins Maul (pigeon!)\" = Hungar. \"Senkinek nem repül a szájába a sült galamb (pigeon!)\" = Lith. \"Keptas karvelis neatlėks pats i burną (pigeon!)\" = Latv. \"Cepts zvirbulis no jumta mutē nekrīt (sparrow!)\" = (Nynorsk) Norw. \"Det kjem ikkje steikte fuglar fljugande i munnen (bird!)\" = Pol. \"Pieczone gołąbki nie przydą same do gąbki (pigeons!)\" = Slovak \"Nech nik nečaká, že mu pečené holuby budú padať do úst (pigeons!)\" = Slovene \"Pečeni golobje ne lete nobenemu v usta [pigeons!] = Swed. Stekta sparvar flyger inte in i munnen (sparrows!)\".\n\nIn Geert Hofstede’s terms Europe can, to a large extent, be considered an individualistic civilization (i.e. a rather direct and analytic style is preferred, important points are mentioned before an explanation or illustration in an argument, decisions are based on compromise or the majority’s vote); in contrast, the Sinic (Chinese), Japanese, Arabic and Hindu (Indian) civilizations are collectivistic (i.e. a rather indirect and synthetic style is used, explanations and illustrations are mentioned before the essential point of an argument, decisions are reached through consent). We can further make Edward Hall’s distinction between “low context” communication (i.e. direct style, person-oriented, self-projection, loquacity) and “high context” communication (i.e. indirect style, status-oriented, reservation, silence). Most European nations use “low context” communication.\n\nWhat are some specific features of European communication strategies? \n\nEurope’s history is characterized by three linguae francae:\n\nLinguae francae that were less widespread, but still played a comparatively important role in European history are:\n\nThe first type of dictionaries are glossaries, i.e. more or less structured lists of lexical pairs (in alphabetical order or according to conceptual fields). The Latin-German (Latin-Bavarian) Abrogans is among the first. A new wave of lexicography can be seen from the late 15th century onwards (after the introduction of the printing press, with the growing interest for standardizing languages).\n\nIn the Middle Ages the two most important definitory elements of Europe were \"Christianitas\" and \"Latinitas\". Thus language—at least the supranational language—played an elementary role. This changed with the spread of the national languages in official contexts and the rise of a national feeling. Among other things, this led to projects of standardizing national language and gave birth to a number of language academies (e.g. 1582 Accademia della Crusca in Florence, 1617 Fruchtbringende Gesellschaft, 1635 Académie française, 1713 Real Academia de la Lengua in Madrid). “Language” was then (and still is today) more connected with “nation” than with “civilization” (particularly in France). “Language” was also used to create a feeling of “religious/ethnic identity” (e.g. different Bible translations by Catholics and Protestants of the same language).\n\nAmong the first standardization discussions and processes are the ones for Italian (“questione della lingua”: Modern Tuscan/Florentine vs. Old Tuscan/Florentine vs. Venetian > Modern Florentine + archaic Tuscan + Upper Italian), French (standard is based on Parisian), English (standard is based on the London dialect) and (High) German (based on: chancellery of Meißen/Saxony + Middle German + chancellery of Prague/Bohemia [“Common German”]). But also a number of other nations began to look for and develop a standard variety in the 16th century.\n\nDespite the importance of English as an international lingua franca also in Europe, Europe can be associated with its linguistic diversity, which also includes the special protection of minority languages, e.g. by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages founded in the 1990s. This underlines that the popular view of “one nation = one language” (cf. Wirrer 2003) is mostly false.\n\nA minority language can be defined as a language used by a group that defines itself as an ethnic minority group, whereby the language of this group is typologically different and not a dialect of the standard language. For several years now, Jan Wirrer has been working on the status of minority languages in Europe (cf., e.g., Wirrer 2000 and 2003). In Europe—e.g. thanks to the European Charter of Regional and Minority Language—some languages are in quite a strong position, in the sense that they are given special status, such as Basque, Irish, Welsh/Cymraeg, Catalan, Rhaeto-Romance/Romansh and Romani, native language of the Roma/Gypsies in southern Europe), whereas others are in a rather weak position (e.g. Frisian, Scottish Gaelic, Turkish, Saami/Lappish, Sorbian/Wendish and Yiddish, the once common language of Ashkenazi Jews in Eastern Europe). Especially allochthonous minority languages are not given official status in the EU.\n\nSome minor languages don’t even have a standard yet, i.e. they have not even reached the level of an ausbausprache yet, which could be changed, e.g., if these languages were given official status. (cf. also next section).\n\nFrance is the origin of two laws, or decrees, concerning language: the Ordonnance de Villers-Cotterêts (1239), which says that every document in France should be written in French (i.e. not in Latin nor Occitan) and the French Loi Toubon, which aims at eliminating Anglicisms from official documents. But a characteristic feature of Europe is linguistic diversity and tolerance, which is not only shown by the European Charta of Regional and Minority Languages. An illustrative proof of the promotion of linguistic diversity in the Middle Ages is the translation school in Toledo, Spain, founded in the 12th century (in medieval Toledo the Christian, the Jewish and the Arab civilizations lived together remarkably peacefully).\n\nThis tolerant linguistic attitude is also the reason why the EU’s general rule is that every official national language is also an official EU language. However, Letzebuergish/Luxemburgish is not an official EU language, because there are also other (stronger) official languages with “EU status” in that country. Several concepts for an EU language policy are being debated: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26434758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26434758", "title": "Gaspar Frutuoso", "text": "Gaspar Frutuoso\n\nGaspar Frutuoso (c.1522 in Ponta Delgada – 1591 in Ribeira Grande) was a Portuguese priest, historian and humanist from the island of São Miguel, in the Portuguese archipelago of the Azores. His major contribution to Portuguese history was his detailed descriptions of the history and geography of the Azores, Madeira, Canary Islands and references to Cape Verde, which he published in his six-part tome \"Saudades da Terra\", as well as \"Saudades do Céu\". He is normally cited in settlement history of the islands of the Azores.\n\nGaspar Frutuoso was born in 1522, on the island of São Miguel, son of Frutuoso Dias, a merchant and rural property-owner, and his wife Isabel Fernandes. Little is known of his childhood, apart from references to him working his father's lands during this period.\n\nThe first trustworthy record about Frutuoso was his admission to the University of Salamanca (in 1548) where he later obtained an Arts certification. At the age of 31 (in 1554), he was ordained during a visit to São Miguel; his records from 1554 to 1555 show him registered as \"presbitero bachiller\". He continued his studies in Salamanca under the noted theologian Domingo de Soto, the royal confessor of King Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor (and Charles I of Spain) and envoy to the Council of Trent, where he obtained a theology baccalaureate. During his time in Salamanca he became friends with Father Miguel Torres, a member of the Society of Jesus, which would later serve him as he was promoting charitable activities in the Azores.\n\nHe briefly returned to the Azores between 1558 and 1560, where he became parish priest in Santa Cruz, in the municipality of Lagoa (records written by him during this period date his time in the parish).\n\nIn 1560, he decided to return to Salamanca in order to complete a Doctorate in Theology, but began working with Bishop Julião de Alva in Bragança, where he remained until 1563. It is unclear when, and from where, he attained his Doctorate, but he began to use this title from 1565, also when his name began appearing on the University of Évora's registry (an institution of the Society of Jesus), after 1569.\n\nBy decree, 20 May 1565, he was nominated to be the vicar and orator at the parochial Church of \"Nossa Senhora da Estrela\" (\"Our Lady of the Star\"), in the municipality of Ribeira Grande, a position he held for the next 26 years (until his death). During this time, he was dedicated to the parish, as well as charitable works he contributed towards on and off-island, but still had time writing his 16 manuscripts that included Saudades da Terra, and Saudades do Ceu.\n\nEver mindful of the politics of the time, during the period of the Philippine Dynasty, he was:\n\nIn 1566, during the French assault on Funchal, he collected funds and wheat for the people of Madeira.\n\nHe died on 24 August 1591 and was buried in the Church of Nossa Senhora da Estrela, in Ribeira Grande.\n\nSaudades da Terra, literally \"Nostalgic-longing for the Land\", is a six-volume tome that contains observations by the author, of the history and geography of the Atlantic territories of the Kingdom of Portugal, as well as the Canary Islands (lands at one time attributed to Portugal). It is a referential work for the understanding of the islands of Macaronesia at the end of the 16th Century. The work is not limited to geography and history, but also covers daily life, customs and traditions, genealogy, the origins of place names, flora and fauna, and affirms Frutuoso's humanist nature, typical of the Renaissance. The author is an encyclopedic, literary and artistic observer of the natural phenomenons, preoccupied with experimental alchemy and speculative on aspects of geology, biology, mineralogy and petrology.\n\nHis detailed descriptions are so detailed that they were published into separate volumes which cover:\n\nThe fifth volume is an elaborate poem, from the perspective of a fictional character, writing in a pastoral style, about the history of two friends that are separated and forced to live far from home. Some biographers have cited this as a deliberate autobiography of Frutuoso and his University friend, the Micalense medic, Gaspar Gonçalves.\n\nGaspar Frutuoso apparently attempted to publish his work, going so far as to rework and edit his manuscript (the original has many edits in his hand). For reasons that are never clear, although the Spanish occupation of the island (during the Iberian Union) may have influenced his decision, he never published the work. The manuscript, along with documents from his library, were sent to the Jesuit College in Ponta Delgada and preserved until 1760 (when the Society of Jesus was expelled from Portugal). The manuscript fell into the hands of people who restricted access to the document, until it was donated to the General Committee of Ponta Delgada, and incorporated into the holdings of the Public Library and Archive (where it now resides). The work was finally published in 1873, with thirty notes by Álvaro Rodrigues de Azevedo, and a prologue by the \"Dicionário Universal de Português Ilustrado\" (\"Illustrated Universal Dictionary of Portugal\"), written by Fernandes Costa. Many partial editions of \"Saudades da Terra\" have been re-published by the \"Instituto Cultural de Ponta Delgada\" since 1966.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10323067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323067", "title": "Giuseppe Pecci", "text": "Giuseppe Pecci\n\nGiuseppe Pecci (13 December 1807 – 8 February 1890) was a Jesuit Thomist theologian whose younger brother, Vincenzo, became Pope Leo XIII and appointed him a cardinal. The Neo-Thomist revival, which Leo XIII and his brother Giuseppe, Cardinal Pecci originated in 1879, remained the leading papal philosophy until Vatican II.\n\nBorn in Carpineto Romano, near Rome, Giuseppe was one of the seven sons of Count Dominico Ludovico Pecci and his wife Anna Prosperi Buzi, Countess Pecci. From 1807 to 1818 he lived at home with his family. Together with his younger brother Vincenzo, he studied in the Jesuit College in Viterbo from 1818 until 1824. In 1824, Count Pecci called him and Vincenzo home to Rome, where their mother was dying; the father wanted his children to be with him after the loss of his wife, and so they remained in Rome, attending the Collegium Romanum, a college belonging to the Society of Jesus.\nIn 1828, the question of occupational choice arose for the two brothers; Giuseppe Pecci professed the Jesuit order, while Vincenzo decided in favour of a diocesan priest.\n\nPecci taught Thomism, the theology and philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome in 1847. At the request of his brother, who became Archbishop of Perugia, he was made a professor at the theological seminary in Perugia, where he remained from 1852 through 1859. After the city was taken over by Piedmont forces in 1860, Pope Pius IX called him to Rome and offered him a professorship in theology at La Sapienza University. Pope Pius also called him into the papal commission to prepare the First Vatican Council. Good \"Thomist theology\" was hard to come by at that time, with the result that young scholars from other countries were sent to Rome to learn from Pecci and Tommaso Maria Zigliara. In 1870 he resigned his professorship because he refused to take the anti-papal oath which was demanded by the new Italian government. He continued his prominent theological research independently.\n\nIn 1879, the College of Cardinals, led by Camillo, Cardinal di Pietro, insistently asked Pope Leo XIII to elevate his brother to their ranks, and at the age of 71 Giuseppe Pecci was created Cardinal-Deacon of \"Sant'Agata dei Goti\" on 12 May 1879 in his brother's first consistory. He was the last member of a Pope's family elevated to the cardinalate.\n\nThe ceremony was described by Ludwig von Pastor in his diary: On 15 May at 11 am, Pope Leo XIII entered the hall in pontifical vestments, before him the College of Cardinals. The Swiss Guards stood to attention. After the Papal speech, each of the new cardinals, Pecci, John Henry Newman, Joseph Hergenröther and Tommaso Maria Zigliara, received the red hat, all of whom being well-known Church scholars.\n\nThe elevation of Pecci, a well-known Thomist, took place in the context of the determined efforts of Leo XIII to foster science and Thomist theology throughout the Catholic Church . Thomism had lost its role as a leading theology and Leo attempted to re-establish it \"for the protection of faith, welfare of society and the advancement of science\". What he envisaged were not sterile interpretations of it, but a return to the original sources. This new orientation at the beginning of his pontificate was welcomed by Dominicans, Thomist Jesuits like Pecci and numerous bishops throughout the world. Strong opposition also developed as well on several fronts within the Church: Some considered Thomism simply outdated, while others used it for petty condemnations of dissident views that they did not like. As traditional antagonists, Jesuits and Dominicans both claimed leadership in the renewal of Catholic theology.\n\nPope Leo responded with the encyclical \"Æterni Patris\", much of which was co-written by Cardinal Pecci on the restoration of Christian philosophy in the schools, which was published on 4 August 1879, and mandated all Catholic universities to teach Thomism; it also created a papal academy for the training of Thomist professors and publishing scholarly editions of the works of St Thomas Aquinas. The leadership of this academy he entrusted to his brother, who aided the creation of similar Thomas Aquinas academies in other places (Bologna, Freiburg (Switzerland), Paris and Lowden). In 1879, Cardinal Pecci was appointed as first Prefect of the Pontifical Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas, which Leo founded on 15 October 1879, and was also appointed Prefect of the Congregation for Studies in February 1884 . (On 28 January 1999, the academy was reoriented to more social issues by Pope John Paul II.) Pope Leo XIII appointed thirty members, ten each from Rome, from Italy, and from the rest of the world, and provided generous financial support to attract scholars from everywhere. The Pope also personally supported individual Thomist scholars and applauded numerous critical editions of the \"Angelic Doctor\"'s texts. To balance his Thomist Jesuit appointments, Leo entrusted the overall responsibility of the works of St Thomas Aquinas to the Dominican Order, of which the saint had been a member.\n\nPope Leo XIII considered the mostly locked-up and neglected Vatican Library as \"an infinite treasure for the Church and a monument to its role in culture and science\". He greatly increased staff and organization and appointed Jesuit father Franz Ehrle and Giuseppe Pecci to head the new undertaking as prefect and librarian, respectively. They in turn opened the Vatican Library to the general public after establishing a consultation library of 300,000 volumes.\n\nCardinal Pecci continued his work as congregation and academy prefect and librarian until he died on 8 February 1890, of complications from pneumonia. His body lay in repose in the Basilica of the Twelve Apostles (Basilica dei Santi Apostoli) in Rome, where his funeral took place on 12 February. He is buried in the chapel of the Society of Jesus in Campo Verano Cemetery, in Rome .\n"}
{"id": "20067120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20067120", "title": "Gutierre Tibón", "text": "Gutierre Tibón\n\nGutierre Tibón (16 July 1905 – 15 May 1999) was an Italian-Mexican author. He wrote widely on issues of cultural identity, mixing ideas from anthropology, linguistics, psychology, philosophy, ethnology, sociology, and political science.\n\nTibón was born in Lombardy, Italy. In his early years he worked as a typewriter salesman, later travelling widely in Europe and the Americas for his work. His visits to Mexico attracted him to the country, and he moved there in 1940. He established himself as a writer and radio personality. His first major work was on the culture and future prospects of Mexico. \"México, 1950, Un País en Futuro\" (1942) looked forward to what he called a \"México Feliz\", which he thought could be achieved by 1950. He advocated strong leadership and government intervention to promote mass education. He later had a success with \"Viaje à la India por el Aire\", which originated as broadcast conversations with the poet Ricardo López Méndez about his travels in the Middle East on the way to India. Tibón's ability to mix anecdotes, philosophical observations and political commentary on the culture of the countries he passed through proved popular. He was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo on 11 October 1946 for his writings.\n\nTibón has been especially interested in the history of personal and topographical names. His book \"América: Setenta siglos de la historia de un nombre\" (1945) constitutes what has been called a \"novelized study in which a word is the chief character\". He argues that the name \"America\" is \"a masterpiece of chance\", and proceeds to trace its etymology from the personal name of Amerigo Vespucci to its Germanic original Amalric and to ancient roots, which he claims to link to the meaning \"land of industrious and powerful men\". In \"Origen, Vida y Milagros de su Apellido\", he extended this method to the discussion of personal names, providing elaborate historical genealogies and anecdotes to create a narrative of humanity though names. He was most interested in Spanish and Sephardic Jewish names.\n\nIn 1946 the Academia Mexicana de Genealogía y Heráldica elected him as a Numbered Academician\n\nHis later writings continue his interest in names, but also branch out to include mysticist or occult topics. He developed the method of his book on America in his discussion of the origins of Mexico in \"Historia del nombre y de la fundación de México \" (1975).\n\nIn \"El Ombligo como centro cósmico\" (1981), he argued for the survivals of \"paleolithic magic\" in a \"prenatal triad\" of umbilical cord, placenta and amniotic sac and on the navel as \"cosmic center\". In \"Los Ritos Mágicos y Trágicos de la Pubertad Femenina\" (1984) he explored the \"magic and tragic rites\" of female puberty.\n\nHe was elected to the Academia Mexicana de la Lengua as an honorary member on 10 December 1987.\n\nTibón died in Cuernavaca, Morelos in 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23990410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23990410", "title": "History of Bolivia (1982–present)", "text": "History of Bolivia (1982–present)\n\nThe history of Bolivia since 1982 begins with the restorations of democracy after the rule of the military junta of 1982. Evo Morales has held the presidency since 2006. A new constitution was enacted in 2009. Bolivia's population has roughly doubled over this period, from 5 million in 1980 to 10 million as of 2012. \n\nThe former president Hernán Siles Zuazo assumed the presidency of Bolivia on 10 October 1982, following a general strike that brought the country close to civil war. Severe social tension, exacerbated by economic mismanagement and weak leadership, forced Siles Zuaso to call early elections and relinquish power a year before the end of his constitutional term.\n\nIn the 1985 elections, the Nationalist Democratic Action (ADN) of General Hugo Banzer Suárez won a plurality of the popular vote, followed by former President Víctor Paz Estenssoro's Nationalist Revolutionary Movement (MNR) and former Vice President Jaime Paz Zamora's Revolutionary Left Movement (MIR). But in the congressional run-off, the MIR sided with the MNR, and Paz Estenssoro was chosen for a fourth term as President. When he took office in 1985, he faced a staggering economic crisis. Economic output and exports had been declining for several years.\n\nHyperinflation had reached an annual rate of 24%. Social unrest, chronic strikes, and unchecked drug trafficking were widespread. In 4 years Paz Estenssoro's administration achieved economic and social stability. The military stayed out of politics, and all major political parties publicly and institutionally committed themselves to democracy. Human rights violations, which badly tainted some governments earlier in the decade, were no longer a problem. However, his remarkable accomplishments were not won without sacrifice. The collapse of tin prices in October 1985, coming just as the government was moving to reassert its control of the mismanaged state mining enterprise, forced the government to lay off over 20,000 miners.\n\nUnder pressure from the United States to control coca production, Bolivia passed Law 1008 to enable eradication. Protests by coca growers in Chapare against the proposed law were met by the Villa Tunari massacre in which 12 farmers were killed.\n\nAlthough the MNR list headed by Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada finished first in the 1989 elections, no candidate received a majority of popular vote and in accordance with the constitution, a congressional vote determined who would be president. The Patriotic Accord (AP) coalition between Gen. Banzer's ADN and Jaime Paz Zamora's MIR, the second- and third-place finishers, respectively, won. Paz Zamora assumed the presidency, and the MIR took half the ministries. Banzer's center-right ADN took control of the National Political Council (CONAP) and the other ministries.\n\nPaz Zamora was a moderate, center-left President whose political pragmatism in office outweighed his Marxist origins. Having seen the destructive hyperinflation of the Siles Zuazo administration, he continued the neoliberal economic reforms begun by Paz Estenssoro, codifying some of them. Paz Zamora took a fairly hard line against domestic terrorism, personally ordering the December 1990 attack on terrorists of the Néstor Paz Zamora Commission.\n\nPaz Zamora was less decisive against narcotics trafficking. The government broke up a number of trafficking networks but issued a 1991 surrender decree giving lenient sentences to the biggest narcotics kingpins. Also, his administration was extremely reluctant to pursue coca eradication. It did not agree to an updated extradition treaty with the US, although two traffickers have been extradited to the U.S. since 1992. Beginning in early 1994, the Bolivian Congress investigated Paz Zamora's personal ties to accused major trafficker Isaac Chavarria, who subsequently died in prison while awaiting trial. MIR deputy chief Oscar Eid was jailed in connection with similar ties in 1994; he was found guilty and sentenced to 4 years in prison in November 1996. Technically still under investigation, Paz Zamora became an active presidential candidate in 1996.\n\nThe 1993 elections continued the tradition of open, honest elections and peaceful democratic transitions of power. The MNR defeated the ADN/MIR coalition by a 36% to 20% margin, and the MNR's Sánchez de Lozada was selected as president by a Congressional coalition of the MNR, Free Bolivia Movement (\"Movimiento Bolivia Libre\", MBL), and Civic Solidarity Union (\"Unidad Cívica Solidaridad\", UCS).\n\nSánchez de Lozada pursued an aggressive economic and social reform agenda. The most dramatic change undertaken by the Sanchez de Lozada government was the capitalization program, under which investors acquired 50% ownership and management control of public enterprises, such as the \"Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos\" (YPFB) oil corporation, telecommunications system, electric utilities, and others. The reforms and economic restructuring were strongly opposed by certain segments of society, which instigated frequent social disturbances, particularly in La Paz and the Chapare coca-growing region, from 1994 through 1996.\n\nIn the 1997 elections, Gen. Hugo Banzer, leader of the ADN, won 22% of the vote, while the MNR candidate won 18%. Gen. Banzer formed a coalition of the ADN, MIR, UCS, and Conciencia de Patria (CONDEPA) parties which hold a majority of seats in the Bolivian Congress. The Congress elected him as president and he was inaugurated on August 6, 1997.\nBetween January and April 2000, a series of anti-privatization protests took place in Cochabamba against the privatization of the municipal water supply that was being pushed through on the recommendation of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The Bolivian government declared martial law, killing several people, arresting protest leaders and shutting down radio stations. After continued disturbances and civic pressure, the government finally rolled back the privatization on April 10, 2000.\n\nPresident Hugo Banzer resigned in August 2001, due to being diagnosed with lung cancer and was succeeded by his vice-president Jorge Quiroga.\n\nIn the 2002 elections, Sánchez de Lozada ran again, and narrowly beat NFR's Manfred Reyes Villa and the indigenous leader Evo Morales of the Movement Toward Socialism (MAS) party.\n\nSeveral days before Bolivians went to the voting booths, the U.S. ambassador Manuel Rocha warned the Bolivian electorate that if they voted for a candidate known to have links with drug-trafficking, referring indirectly to Morales, the US would cut off foreign aid and close its markets to the country. Because of the public outrage this statement generated, Morales received nearly 21% of the vote, putting him only a couple points behind Sánchez de Lozada.\n\nIn recent years, an increasingly divisive conflict has been the Bolivian Gas War; a dispute over the exploitation of Bolivia's large natural gas reserves in the south of the country. Strikes and blockades first erupted in September 2003, with several deaths and dozens of injuries in confrontations with the armed forces. President Sánchez de Lozada resigned under pressure from protesters, formally handing over the presidency to his vice-president, Carlos Mesa, in order to preserve the Constitutional order.\n\nMesa was inaugurated and promised to address the demands of the protesting majority. In the face of mounting protests, he resigned on March 7, 2005, claiming he was unable to continue governing the country. With promises of support, he withdrew his resignation.\n\nIn May–June 2005, Mesa again tendered his resignation and in a hastily convened session of the Parliament in Sucre, Eduardo Rodríguez Veltzé - the President of the Supreme Court - became President on the night of June 9, 2005. Political agreements were reached to modify the Constitution, and allow the full renewal of Parliament, simultaneously with a Presidential Election, on December 4, 2005.\n\nThe deterioration of the Bolivian political system contributed towards the rise of a loose confederation of indigenous social movements, the MAS and othe parties, with the head of the MAS Evo Morales, a former \"cocalero\", as leader. In the elections of December 2005 Evo Morales and MAS obtained a comfortable victory reaching 54% of the electorate's votes, becoming the first Native Bolivian president in history.\nIn March 2006 Morales announced the increase of the minimum wage by 50%. However, six Bolivian workers in every ten are part of the informal economy, thus limiting the extent of such a legally mandated increase in wages.\n\nOn May 1, 2006, Evo Morales nationalized most of Bolivia's natural gas fields, which many indigenous Bolivians had demanded for years. Troops were sent in to occupy the gas fields and take back control from foreign companies that day. Many fields were operated by Petrobras, Brazil's largest energy company, and this political development was expected to strain relations between Morales and leftist Brazilian president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. On October 29, 2006 the Morales government signed agreements with eight foreign gas firms including Petrobras, to give the Bolivian national gas company a majority stake in the gas fields, bringing the nationalization to completion.\n\nOn May 4, 2008 autonomy referendums were held in four eastern departments, in which they declared themselves autonomous from the central government. All four referendums passed. Evo Morales deemed this referendum illegal. Turnout was at 70%.\n\nIn February 2009 a new constitution was enacted by Evo Morales. This gave Bolivians of indigenous descent more economic and political rights.\n"}
{"id": "344148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344148", "title": "History of English", "text": "History of English\n\nEnglish is a West Germanic language that originated from Anglo-Frisian dialects brought to Britain in the mid 5th to 7th centuries AD by Anglo-Saxon settlers from what is now northwest Germany, west Denmark and the Netherlands, displacing the Celtic languages that previously predominated.\n\nThe Old English of the Anglo-Saxon era developed into Middle English, which was spoken from the Norman Conquest era to the late 15th century. A significant influence on the shaping of Middle English came from contact with the North Germanic languages spoken by the Scandinavians who conquered and colonized parts of Britain during the 8th and 9th centuries; this contact led to much lexical borrowing and grammatical simplification. Another important influence came from the conquering Normans, who spoke a Romance langue d'oïl called Old Norman, which in Britain developed into Anglo-Norman. Many Norman and French loanwords entered the language in this period, especially in vocabulary related to the church, the court system and the government. The system of orthography that was established during the Middle English period is largely still in use today – later changes in pronunciation, however, combined with the adoption of various foreign spellings, mean that the spelling of modern English words appears highly irregular.\n\nEarly Modern English – the language used by Shakespeare – is dated from around 1500. It incorporated many Renaissance-era loans from Latin and Ancient Greek, as well as borrowings from other European languages, including French, German and Dutch. Significant pronunciation changes in this period included the ongoing Great Vowel Shift, which affected the qualities of most long vowels. Modern English proper, similar in most respects to that spoken today, was in place by the late 17th century. The English language came to be exported to other parts of the world through British colonisation, and is now the dominant language in Britain and Ireland, the United States and Canada, Australia, New Zealand and many smaller former colonies, as well as being widely spoken in India, parts of Africa, and elsewhere. Partially due to United States influence, English gradually took on the status of a global lingua franca in the second half of the 20th century. This is especially true in Europe, where English has largely taken over the former roles of French and (much earlier) Latin as a common language used to conduct business and diplomacy, share scientific and technological information, and otherwise communicate across national boundaries. The efforts of English-speaking Christian missionaries has resulted in English becoming a second language for many other groups.\n\nOld English consisted of a diverse group of dialects, reflecting the varied origins of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms established in different parts of Britain. The Late West Saxon dialect eventually became dominant; however, a greater input to Middle English came from the Anglian dialects. Global variation among different English dialects and accents remains significant today. Scots, a form of English traditionally spoken in parts of Scotland and the north of Ireland, is sometimes treated as a separate language.\n\nEnglish has its roots in the languages of the Germanic peoples of northern Europe. During the Roman Empire, most of the Germanic-inhabited area (Germania) remained independent from Rome, although some southwestern parts were within the empire. Some Germanics served in the Roman military, and troops from Germanic tribes such as the Tungri, Batavi, Menapii and Frisii served in Britain (Britannia) under Roman command. Germanic settlement and power expanded during the Migration Period, which saw the fall of the Western Roman Empire. The Germanic settlement of Britain took place from the 5th to the 7th century, following the end of Roman rule on the island. The \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" relates that around the year 449 Vortigern, king of the Britons, invited the \"Angle kin\" (Angles allegedly led by the Germanic brothers Hengist and Horsa) to help repel invading Picts, in return for lands in the southeast of Britain. This led to waves of settlers who eventually established seven kingdoms, known as the heptarchy. (The \"Chronicle\" was not a contemporaneous work, however, and cannot be regarded as an accurate record of such early events.) Bede, who wrote his \"Ecclesiastical History\" in AD 731, writes of invasion by Angles, Saxons and Jutes, although the precise nature of the invasion and settlement and the contributions made by these particular groups are the subject of much dispute among historians.\n\nThe languages spoken by the Germanic peoples who initially settled in Britain were part of the West Germanic branch of the Germanic language family. They consisted of dialects from the Ingvaeonic grouping, spoken mainly around the North Sea coast, in regions that lie within modern Denmark, north-west Germany and the Netherlands. Due to specific similarities between early English and Old Frisian, an Anglo-Frisian grouping is also identified.\n\nThese dialects had most of the typical West Germanic features, including a significant amount of grammatical inflection. Vocabulary came largely from the core Germanic stock, although due to the Germanic peoples' extensive contacts with the Roman world, the settlers' languages already included a number of loanwords from Latin. For instance, the predecessor of Modern English \"wine\" had been borrowed into early Germanic from the Latin \"vinum\".\n\nThe dialects spoken by the Germanic settlers developed into a language that would come to be called Anglo-Saxon, or now more commonly Old English. It displaced the so-called indigenous Brittonic Celtic (and the Latin of the former Roman rulers) in most of the areas of Britain that later formed the Kingdom of England, while Celtic languages remained in most of Scotland, Wales and Cornwall, and many compound Celtic-Germanic placenames survive, hinting at early language mixing. Old English continued to exhibit local variation, the remnants of which continue to be found in dialects of Modern English. The four main dialects were Mercian, Northumbrian, Kentish and West Saxon; the last of these formed the basis for the literary standard of the later Old English period, although the dominant forms of Middle and Modern English would develop mainly from Mercian.\n\nOld English was first written using a runic script called the futhorc, but this was replaced by a version of the Latin alphabet introduced by Irish missionaries in the 9th century. Most literary output was in either the Early West Saxon of Alfred the Great's time, or the Late West Saxon (regarded as the \"classical\" form of Old English) of the Winchester school inspired by Bishop Æthelwold of Winchester and followed by such writers as the prolific Ælfric of Eynsham (\"the Grammarian\"). The most famous surviving work from the Old English period is the epic poem \"Beowulf\", composed by an unknown poet.\n\nThe introduction of Christianity from around the year 600 encouraged the addition of over 400 Latin loan words into Old English, such as the predecessors of the modern \"priest\", \"paper\", and \"school\", and a smaller number of Greek loan words. The speech of eastern and northern parts of England was also subject to strong Old Norse influence due to Scandinavian rule and settlement beginning in the 9th century (see below).\n\nMost native English speakers today find Old English unintelligible, even though about half of the most commonly used words in Modern English have Old English roots. The grammar of Old English was much more inflected than modern English, combined with freer word order, and was grammatically quite similar in some respects to modern German. The language had demonstrative pronouns (equivalent to \"this\" and \"that\") but did not have definite article \"the\". The Old English period is considered to have evolved into the Middle English period some time after the Norman conquest of 1066, when the language came to be influenced significantly by the new ruling class's language, Old Norman.\n\nVikings from modern-day Norway and Denmark began to raid parts of Britain from the late 8th century onward. In 865, however, a major invasion was launched by what the Anglo-Saxons called the Great Heathen Army, which eventually brought large parts of northern and eastern England (the Danelaw) under Scandinavian control. Most of these areas were retaken by the English under Edward the Elder in the early 10th century, although York and Northumbria were not permanently regained until the death of Eric Bloodaxe in 954. Scandinavian raids resumed in the late 10th century during the reign of Æthelred the Unready, and Sweyn Forkbeard eventually succeeded in briefly being declared king of England in 1013, followed by the longer reign of his son Cnut from 1016 to 1035, and Cnut's sons Harold Harefoot and Harthacnut until 1042.\n\nThe Scandinavians, or Norsemen, spoke dialects of a North Germanic language known as Old Norse. The Anglo-Saxons and the Scandinavians thus spoke related languages from different branches (West and North) of the Germanic family; many of their lexical roots were the same or similar, although their grammatical systems were more divergent. Probably significant numbers of Norse speakers settled in the Danelaw during the period of Scandinavian control. Many place-names in those areas are of Scandinavian provenance (those ending in \"-by\", for example); it is believed that the settlers often established new communities in places that had not previously been developed by the Anglo-Saxons. The extensive contact between Old English and Old Norse speakers, including the possibility of intermarriage that resulted from the acceptance of Christianity by the Danes in 878, undoubtedly influenced the varieties of those languages spoken in the areas of contact. Some scholars even believe that Old English and Old Norse underwent a kind of fusion and that the resulting English language might be described as a mixed language or creole. During the rule of Cnut and other Danish kings in the first half of the 11th century, a kind of diglossia may have come about, with the West Saxon literary language existing alongside the Norse-influenced Midland dialect of English, which could have served as a koine or spoken lingua franca. When Danish rule ended, and particularly after the Norman Conquest, the status of the minority Norse language presumably declined relative to that of English, and its remaining speakers assimilated to English in a process involving language shift and language death. The widespread bilingualism that must have existed during the process possibly contributed to the rate of borrowings from Norse into English.\n\nOnly about 100 or 150 Norse words, mainly connected with government and administration, are found in Old English writing. The borrowing of words of this type was stimulated by Scandinavian rule in the Danelaw and during the later reign of Cnut. However, most surviving Old English texts are based on the West Saxon standard that developed outside the Danelaw; it is not clear to what extent Norse influenced the forms of the language spoken in eastern and northern England at that time. Later texts from the Middle English era, now based on an eastern Midland rather than a Wessex standard, reflect the significant impact that Norse had on the language. In all, English borrowed about 2000 words from Old Norse, several hundred surviving in Modern English.\n\nNorse borrowings include many very common words, such as \"anger\", \"bag\", \"both\", \"hit\", \"law\", \"leg\", \"same\", \"skill\", \"sky\", \"take\", \"window\", and even the pronoun \"they\". Norse influence is also believed to have reinforced the adoption of the plural copular verb form \"are\" rather than alternative Old English forms like \"sind\". It is also considered to have stimulated and accelerated the morphological simplification found in Middle English, such as the loss of grammatical gender and explicitly marked case (except in pronouns). That is possibly confirmed by observations that simplification of the case endings occurred earliest in the north and latest in the southwest. The spread of phrasal verbs in English is another grammatical development to which Norse may have contributed (although here a possible Celtic influence is also noted).\n\nMiddle English is the form of English spoken roughly from the time of the Norman Conquest in 1066 until the end of the 15th century.\n\nFor centuries after the Conquest, the Norman kings and high-ranking nobles in England and to some extent elsewhere in the British Isles spoke Anglo-Norman, a variety of Old Norman, originating from a northern langue d'oïl dialect. Merchants and lower-ranked nobles were often bilingual in Anglo-Norman and English, whilst English continued to be the language of the common people. Middle English was influenced by both Anglo-Norman, and later Anglo-French (see characteristics of the Anglo-Norman language).\nUntil the 14th century, Anglo-Norman and then French were the language of the courts and government. Even after the decline of Norman, standard French retained the status of a formal or prestige language, and about 10,000 French (and Norman) loan words entered Middle English, particularly terms associated with government, church, law, the military, fashion, and food (see English language word origins and List of English words of French origin). The strong influence of Old Norse on English (described in the previous section) also becomes apparent during this period. The impact of the native British Celtic languages that English continued to displace is generally held to be much smaller, although some attribute such analytic verb forms as the continuous aspect (\"to be doing\" or \"to have been doing\") to Celtic influence. Some scholars have also put forward hypotheses that Middle English was a kind of creole language resulting from contact between Old English and either Old Norse or Anglo-Norman.\n\nEnglish literature began to reappear after 1200, when a changing political climate and the decline in Anglo-Norman made it more respectable. The Provisions of Oxford, released in 1258, was the first English government document to be published in the English language after the Norman Conquest. In 1362, Edward III became the first king to address Parliament in English. The Pleading in English Act 1362 made English the only language in which court proceedings could be held, though the official record remained in Latin. By the end of the century, even the royal court had switched to English. Anglo-Norman remained in use in limited circles somewhat longer, but it had ceased to be a living language. Official documents began to be produced regularly in English during the 15th century. Geoffrey Chaucer, who lived in the late 14th century, is the most famous writer from the Middle English period, and \"The Canterbury Tales\" is his best-known work.\n\nThe English language changed enormously during the Middle English period, both in vocabulary and pronunciation, and in grammar. While Old English is a heavily inflected language (synthetic), the use of grammatical endings diminished in Middle English (analytic). Grammar distinctions were lost as many noun and adjective endings were levelled to \"-e\". The older plural noun marker \"-en\" (retained in a few cases such as \"children\" and \"oxen\") largely gave way to \"-s\", and grammatical gender was discarded. Definite article \"þe\" appears around 1200, later spelled as \"the\", first appearing in East and North England as a substitute for Old English \"se\" and \"seo\", nominative forms of \"that.\"\n\nEnglish spelling was also influenced by Norman in this period, with the and sounds being spelled \"th\" rather than with the Old English letters þ (thorn) and ð (eth), which did not exist in Norman. These letters remain in the modern Icelandic and Faroese alphabets, having been borrowed from Old English via Old West Norse.\n\nEnglish underwent extensive sound changes during the 15th century, while its spelling conventions remained largely constant. Modern English is often dated from the Great Vowel Shift, which took place mainly during the 15th century. The language was further transformed by the spread of a standardized London-based dialect in government and administration and by the standardizing effect of printing, which also tended to regularize capitalization. As a result, the language acquired self-conscious terms such as \"accent\" and \"dialect\". As most early presses come from continental Europe, a few native English letters such as þ and ð die out; for some time \"þe\" is written as \"ye.\" By the time of William Shakespeare (mid 16th - early 17th century), the language had become clearly recognizable as Modern English. In 1604, the first English dictionary was published, the \"Table Alphabeticall\".\n\nIncreased literacy and travel facilitated the adoption of many foreign words, especially borrowings from Latin and Greek from the time of the Renaissance. In the 17th century, Latin words were often used with their original inflections, but these eventually disappeared. As there are many words from different languages and English spelling is variable, the risk of mispronunciation is high, but remnants of the older forms remain in a few regional dialects, most notably in the West Country. During the period, loan words were borrowed from Italian, German, and Yiddish. British acceptance of and resistance to Americanisms began during this period.\n\nThe first authoritative and full-featured English dictionary, the \"Dictionary of the English Language\", was published by Samuel Johnson in 1755. To a high degree, the dictionary standardized both English spelling and word usage. Meanwhile, grammar texts by Lowth, Murray, Priestly, and others attempted to prescribe standard usage even further.\n\nEarly Modern English and Late Modern English, also called Present-Day English (PDE), differ essentially in vocabulary. Late Modern English has many more words, arising from the Industrial Revolution and technologies that created a need for new words, as well as international development of the language. The British Empire at its height covered one quarter of the Earth's land surface, and the English language adopted foreign words from many countries. British English and North American English, the two major varieties of the language, are together spoken by 400 million people. The total number of English speakers worldwide may exceed one billion. The English language will almost certainly continue to evolve over time. With the development of computer and online environments (such as chat rooms, social media expressions, and apps), and the adoption of English as a worldwide lingua franca across cultures, customs, and traditions, it should not be surprising to see further shortening of words, phrases, and/or sentences.\n\nOver the last 1,200 years or so, English has undergone extensive changes in its vowel system but many fewer changes to its consonants.\n\nIn the Old English period, a number of umlaut processes affected vowels in complex ways, and unstressed vowels were gradually eroded, eventually leading to a loss of grammatical case and grammatical gender in the Early Middle English period. The most important umlaut process was *i-mutation (c. 500 CE), which led to pervasive alternations of all sorts, many of which survive in the modern language: e.g. in noun paradigms (\"foot\" vs. \"feet\", \"mouse\" vs. \"mice\", \"brother\" vs. \"brethren\"); in verb paradigms (\"sold\" vs. \"sell\"); nominal derivatives from adjectives (\"strong\" vs. \"strength\", \"broad\" vs. \"breadth\", \"foul\" vs. \"filth\") and from other nouns (\"fox\" vs. \"vixen\"); verbal derivatives (\"food\" vs. \"to feed\"); and comparative adjectives (\"old\" vs. \"elder\"). Consonants were more stable, although velar consonants were significantly modified by palatalization, which produced alternations such as \"speak\" vs. \"speech\", \"drink\" vs. \"drench\", \"wake\" vs. \"watch\", \"bake\" vs. \"batch\".\n\nThe Middle English period saw further vowel changes. Most significant was the Great Vowel Shift (c. 1500 CE), which transformed the pronunciation of all long vowels. This occurred after the spelling system was fixed, and accounts for the drastic differences in pronunciation between \"short\" \"mat, met, bit, cot\" vs. \"long\" \"mate, mete/meet, bite, coat\". Other changes that left echoes in the modern language were homorganic lengthening before \"ld\", \"mb\", \"nd\", which accounts for the long vowels in \"child\", \"mind\", \"climb\", etc.; pre-cluster shortening, which resulted in the vowel alternations in \"child\" vs. \"children\", \"keep\" vs. \"kept\", \"meet\" vs. \"met\"; and trisyllabic laxing, which is responsible for alternations such as \"grateful\" vs. \"gratitude\", \"divine\" vs. \"divinity\", \"sole\" vs. \"solitary\".\n\nAmong the more significant recent changes to the language have been the development of rhotic and non-rhotic accents (i.e. \"r-dropping\"); the trap-bath split in many dialects of British English; and flapping of \"t\" and \"d\" between vowels in American English and Australian English.\n\nThe following table shows the principal developments in the stressed vowels, from Old English through Modern English (\"C\" indicates any consonant):\n\nThe following chart shows the primary developments of English vowels in the last 600 years, in more detail, since Late Middle English of Chaucer's time. The Great Vowel Shift can be seen in the dramatic developments from c. 1400 to 1600.\n\nNeither of the above tables covers the history of Middle English diphthongs, the changes before /r/, or various special cases and exceptions. For details, see phonological history of English as well as the articles on Old English phonology and Middle English phonology.\n\nThe vowel changes over time can be seen in the following example words, showing the changes in their form over the last 2,000 years:\n\nThe English language once had an extensive declension system similar to Latin, modern German and Icelandic. Old English distinguished among the nominative, accusative, dative, and genitive cases, and for strongly declined adjectives and some pronouns also a separate instrumental case (which otherwise and later completely coincided with the dative). In addition, the dual number was distinguished from the singular and plural.\nDeclension was greatly simplified during the Middle English period, when the accusative and dative cases of the pronouns merged into a single oblique case that also replaced the genitive case after prepositions. Nouns in Modern English no longer decline for case, except for the genitive.\n\nPronouns such as \"whom\" and \"him\" (contrasted with \"who\" and \"he\"), are a conflation of the old accusative and dative cases, as well as of the genitive case after prepositions (while \"her\" also includes the genitive case). This conflated form is called the \"oblique case\" or the \"object (objective) case\", because it is used for objects of verbs (direct, indirect, or oblique) as well as for objects of prepositions. (See object pronoun.) The information formerly conveyed by distinct case forms is now mostly provided by prepositions and word order. In Old English as well as modern German and Icelandic as further examples, these cases had distinct forms.\n\nAlthough some grammarians continue to use the traditional terms \"accusative\" and \"dative\", these are functions rather than morphological cases in Modern English. That is, the form \"whom\" may play accusative or dative roles (as well as instrumental or prepositional roles), but it is a single morphological form, contrasting with nominative \"who\" and genitive \"whose\". Many grammarians use the labels \"subjective\", \"objective\", and \"possessive\" for nominative, oblique, and genitive pronouns.\n\nModern English nouns exhibit only one inflection of the reference form: the possessive case, which some linguists argue is not a case at all, but a clitic (see the entry for genitive case for more information).\n\nHere the letter þ (interchangeable with ð in manuscripts) corresponds to \"th\". For ȝ, see Yogh.\n\n\"Beowulf\" is an Old English epic poem in alliterative verse. It is dated from the 8th to the early 11th centuries. These are the first 11 lines:\n\nWhich, as translated by Francis Barton Gummere, reads:\n<poem>\nLo, praise of the prowess of people-kings\nof spear-armed Danes, in days long sped,\nwe have heard, and what honor the athelings won!\nOft Scyld the Scefing from squadroned foes,\nfrom many a tribe, the mead-bench tore,\nawing the earls. Since erst he lay\nfriendless, a foundling, fate repaid him:\nfor he waxed under welkin, in wealth he throve,\ntill before him the folk, both far and near,\nwho house by the whale-path, heard his mandate,\ngave him gifts: a good king he!\n</poem>\nThis is the beginning of \"The Voyages of Ohthere and Wulfstan\", a prose text in Old English dated to the late 9th century. The full text can be found at .\n\n\"Ōhthere sǣde his hlāforde, Ælfrēde cyninge, ðæt hē ealra Norðmonna norþmest būde. Hē cwæð þæt hē būde on þǣm lande norþweardum wiþ þā Westsǣ. Hē sǣde þēah þæt þæt land sīe swīþe lang norþ þonan; ac hit is eal wēste, būton on fēawum stōwum styccemǣlum wīciað Finnas, on huntoðe on wintra, ond on sumera on fiscaþe be þǣre sǣ. Hē sǣde þæt hē æt sumum cirre wolde fandian hū longe þæt land norþryhte lǣge, oþþe hwæðer ǣnig mon be norðan þǣm wēstenne būde. Þā fōr hē norþryhte be þǣm lande: lēt him ealne weg þæt wēste land on ðæt stēorbord, ond þā wīdsǣ on ðæt bæcbord þrīe dagas. Þā wæs hē swā feor norþ swā þā hwælhuntan firrest faraþ. Þā fōr hē þā giet norþryhte swā feor swā hē meahte on þǣm ōþrum þrīm dagum gesiglau. Þā bēag þæt land, þǣr ēastryhte, oþþe sēo sǣ in on ðæt lond, hē nysse hwæðer, būton hē wisse ðæt hē ðǣr bād westanwindes ond hwōn norþan, ond siglde ðā ēast be lande swā swā hē meahte on fēower dagum gesiglan. Þā sceolde hē ðǣr bīdan ryhtnorþanwindes, for ðǣm þæt land bēag þǣr sūþryhte, oþþe sēo sǣ in on ðæt land, hē nysse hwæþer. Þā siglde hē þonan sūðryhte be lande swā swā hē meahte on fīf dagum gesiglan. Ðā læg þǣr ān micel ēa ūp on þæt land. Ðā cirdon hīe ūp in on ðā ēa for þǣm hīe ne dorston forþ bī þǣre ēa siglan for unfriþe; for þǣm ðæt land wæs eall gebūn on ōþre healfe þǣre ēas. Ne mētte hē ǣr nān gebūn land, siþþan hē from his āgnum hām fōr; ac him wæs ealne weg wēste land on þæt stēorbord, būtan fiscerum ond fugelerum ond huntum, ond þæt wǣron eall Finnas; ond him wæs āwīdsǣ on þæt bæcbord. Þā Boermas heafdon sīþe wel gebūd hira land: ac hīe ne dorston þǣr on cuman. Ac þāra Terfinna land wæs eal wēste, būton ðǣr huntan gewīcodon, oþþe fisceras, oþþe fugeleras.\"\n\nA translation:\n\nOhthere said to his lord, King Alfred, that he of all Norsemen lived north-most. He quoth that he lived in the land northward along the North Sea. He said though that the land was very long from there, but it is all wasteland, except that in a few places here and there Finns [i.e. Sami] encamp, hunting in winter and in summer fishing by the sea. He said that at some time he wanted to find out how long the land lay northward or whether any man lived north of the wasteland. Then he traveled north by the land. All the way he kept the waste land on his starboard and the wide sea on his port three days. Then he was as far north as whale hunters furthest travel. Then he traveled still north as far as he might sail in another three days. Then the land bowed east (or the sea into the land — he did not know which). But he knew that he waited there for west winds (and somewhat north), and sailed east by the land so as he might sail in four days. Then he had to wait for due-north winds, because the land bowed south (or the sea into the land — he did not know which). Then he sailed from there south by the land so as he might sail in five days. Then a large river lay there up into the land. Then they turned up into the river, because they dared not sail forth past the river for hostility, because the land was all settled on the other side of the river. He had not encountered earlier any settled land since he travelled from his own home, but all the way waste land was on his starboard (except fishers, fowlers and hunters, who were all Finns). And the wide sea was always on his port. The Bjarmians have cultivated their land very well, but they did not dare go in there. But the Terfinn’s land was all waste except where hunters encamped, or fishers or fowlers.\nFrom \"Ayenbite of Inwyt\" (\"the prick of conscience\"), a translation of a French confessional prose work into the Kentish dialect of Middle English, completed in 1340:\n<poem>\nNou wille þet ye hou is \nþet þis boc is Engliss of Kent.\nÞis boc is vor men\nVor vader and vor moder and vor oþer \nþet ine ne no voul .\n' ase god' in his name ,\nÞet þis boc made god him þet bread,\nOf angles of hevene, and þerto his ,\nAnd his þet he is . Amen.\n</poem>\nThe beginning of \"The Canterbury Tales\", a collection of stories in poetry and prose written in the London dialect of Middle English by Geoffrey Chaucer at the end of the 14th century:\n<poem>\nWhan that Aprill with his shoures \nThe droghte of March hath perced to the roote,\nAnd bathed every veyne in \nOf which vertu engendred is the ;\nWhan Zephirus with his sweete breeth\nInspired hath in every and heeth\nThe tendre croppes, and the yonge sonne\nHath in the his half cours ,\nAnd smale maken melodye,\nThat slepen al the nyght with open \n(So in ),\nThanne longen folk to goon on pilgrimages,\nAnd palmeres for to seken straunge ,\nTo , in sondry londes;\nAnd specially from every shires ende\nOf Engelond to Caunterbury they ,\nThe hooly blisful martir for to seke,\nThat whan that they were .\n\n</poem>\n\nThe beginning of \"Paradise Lost\", an epic poem in unrhymed iambic pentameter written in Early Modern English by John Milton and first published in 1667:\n<poem>\nOf Mans First Disobedience, and the Fruit\nOf that Forbidden Tree, whose mortal tast\nBrought Death into the World, and all our woe,\nWith loss of Eden, till one greater Man\nRestore us, and regain the blissful Seat,\nSing Heav'nly Muse, that on the secret top\nOf Oreb, or of Sinai, didst inspire\nThat Shepherd, who first taught the chosen Seed,\nIn the Beginning how the Heav'ns and Earth\nRose out of Chaos: Or if Sion Hill\nDelight thee more, and Siloa's Brook that flow'd\nFast by the Oracle of God; I thence\nInvoke thy aid to my adventrous Song,\nThat with no middle flight intends to soar\nAbove th' Aonian Mount, while it pursues\nThings unattempted yet in Prose or Rhime.\n</poem>\nA selection from the novel \"Oliver Twist\", written by Charles Dickens in Modern English and published in 1838:\nThe evening arrived: the boys took their places; the master in his cook's uniform stationed himself at the copper; his pauper assistants ranged themselves behind him; the gruel was served out, and a long grace was said over the short commons. The gruel disappeared, the boys whispered each other and winked at Oliver, while his next neighbours nudged him. Child as he was, he was desperate with hunger and reckless with misery. He rose from the table, and advancing, basin and spoon in hand, to the master, said, somewhat alarmed at his own temerity—\n\n\"Please, sir, I want some more.\"\n\nThe master was a fat, healthy man, but he turned very pale. He gazed in stupefied astonishment on the small rebel for some seconds, and then clung for support to the copper. The assistants were paralysed with wonder, and the boys with fear.\n\n\"What!\" said the master at length, in a faint voice.\n\n\"Please, sir,\" replied Oliver, \"I want some more.\"\n\nThe master aimed a blow at Oliver's head with the ladle, pinioned him in his arms, and shrieked aloud for the beadle.\n\n\nLists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35891033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35891033", "title": "History of Venezuela (1948–1958)", "text": "History of Venezuela (1948–1958)\n\nVenezuela saw ten years of military dictatorship from 1948 to 1958. After the 1948 Venezuelan coup d'état brought an end a three-year experiment in democracy (\"El Trienio Adeco\"), a triumvirate of military personnel controlled the government until 1952, when it held presidential elections. These were free enough to produce results unacceptable to the government, leading them to be falsified, and to one of the three leaders, Marcos Pérez Jiménez, assuming the Presidency. His government was brought to an end by the 1958 Venezuelan coup d'état which saw the advent of democracy, with a transition government under Admiral Wolfgang Larrazábal in place until the December 1958 elections. Prior to the elections, three of the main political parties (with the notable exclusion of the Communist Party of Venezuela) signed up to the Punto Fijo Pact power-sharing agreement.\n\nEl Trienio Adeco was a three-year period in Venezuelan history, from 1945 to 1948, under the government of the marxist social democracy party Democratic Action (\"Accion Democratica\" (AD), its adherents \"adecos\"). The party gained office via the 1945 Venezuelan coup d'état against President Isaías Medina Angarita, named \"The October Revolution\" on October 18th 1945. and held the first general elections in Venezuelan history. The Venezuelan general election, 1947 saw Democratic Action formally elected to office, but it was removed from office shortly after in the 1948 Venezuelan coup d'état.\n\nThere was no particular incident that set off the bloodless 1948 coup, which was led by colonel Carlos Delgado Chalbaud. There was no popular opposition. This might have meant that the odds were too great or that the pardo masses had not noticed any particular improvement in their lives despite the incessant government propaganda. All prominent adecos were expelled. The other parties were allowed but muzzled.\n\nDelgado Chalbaud was twice a betrayer, but Venezuelan historians tend to speak well of him, analogously as they argue in America that John F. Kennedy would not have allowed the Vietnam War to escalate. But both positions are contrafactual, hence un-provable. What is often said is that Delgado Chalbaud was planning to restore Venezuelan democracy. If that was his intention, he did not get the chance to accomplish it. One day in November 1950, as he was being driven unescorted through a wooded part of Caracas towards the presidential palace, he was cut off by cars and kidnapped. His captors took him to an isolated house in southern Caracas. All versions of this incident are more or less agreed that someone's gun went off wounding the leader of the kidnappers, that Delgado Chalbaud was then hustled out of the car and he confronted his abductors, and that finally they shot him to death. The main kidnapper, his nephew Simon Urbina, who was bleeding badly, was soon captured and later, in the then official version, he was killed trying to flee. No one accepts this version, which is why it is widely believed that it was his political partner, Pérez Jiménez, who had Delgado Chalbaud assassinated, nevertheless some believe this is unlikely since the wife of Pérez Jiménez, Doña Flor María Chalbaud Cardona de Pérez Jiménez, was Delgado Chalbaud's cousin.\n\nDelgado Chalbaud had formed a triumvirate with Pérez Jiménez and Luis Felipe Llovera Páez. With his death, the remaining triumvirs chose a civilian president, Luis Germán Suárez Flamerich, who was dismissed by the military in 1952, and the ambitious Pérez Jiménez became dictator with the consent of Llovera Páez. The former majors, who had risen to colonels in the democracy, were now generals. Pérez Jiménez himself was physically not very impressive. He was short, balding, and tubby, and read speeches monotonously, although surely on the personal level he must have had some magnetism. He was a megalomaniac of much character that when a Time magazine interviewer asked him what Rome's greatest legacy was, he said, : \"Its ruins\", apparently wanting to give the impression that while the ruins of Rome were all that remained of its greatness, his own greatness will surpass them with his visionary building projects. In some ways, this is understandable. Pérez Jiménez, unlike most Venezuelans, received a thorough education from the military academies of Venezuela and Peru which he attended and graduated from with the highest honors.\n\nBy the time he came to power, Pérez Jiménez had developed a flair for fascist opulence, boasting about his projects aimed at making Venezuela the major power of South America. The greatest of Venezuelan writers at the time (and for a long time after that) was Arturo Uslar Pietri and he became famous on television with analytical biographies of great historical figures. Uslar Pietri had a felicitous phrase: \"Sow the oil\" (\"Sembrar el petroleo\" in Spanish), which became a national slogan meaning that the state's oil income should be productively invested. But in Venezuela \"sowing the oil\" implied \"sowers\" and the country did not have too many of these. In fact, it was the undeclared understanding that \"sowing the oil\" really meant \"give Venezuelans employment by creating government jobs\".\n\nThe other reason for Pérez Jiménez's \"ruins revelation\" was that what he intended to do as president, apart from becoming rich, which he did, like general Juan Vicente Gomez, with his own military and civilian cronies, was to build and build and build, and here too he was undeniably successful. It is only fair to point out here that while Gomez did become immensely rich, he never had a foreign bank account and even though Pérez Jiménez was not as rich as Gomez, all his money was sent to offshore accounts. Pérez Jiménez also had an efficient secret police, but the stories about tortures and killings were, like those about Gomez, mainly inventions by the frustrated adecos, although whoever in Venezuela tried to be active clandestinely was sure to be either imprisoned or shot if he resisted. Like Gomez, Pérez Jiménez had a theoretician, Laureano Vallenilla Lanz, who happened to be the son of Gomez's own historian and had his father's persuasions. Like his father, Laureano was also a racist which became a factor when he authored the national immigration policy. By the time Pérez Jiménez had all the power in his hands, which despite his uninspiring qualities he did manage to do, Venezuela had around five million inhabitants. Depending on which measures you apply, the country can be said to have been under-populated. If you consider, for instance, that population density is not necessarily good, then it could be argued that Venezuela was not under-populated but under-educated. Vallenilla Lanz and Pérez Jiménez's idea was to open the doors of the country to as many Europeans as wanted to come, with which they, and many non-pardo Venezuelans, believed that two flies would be killed with one swat: the country's population would grow, but not with more uneducated pardos but with Europeans who brought with them, however lowly they might have been in their own countries, a higher than average education compared to most Venezuelans. The policy backfired as the immigrants were from the exact countries that had given rise to the existence of pardos.\n\nUp to a point, this kind of social engineering might have been defensible, but the immigrants, who came from Spain, Portugal, and Italy on the rationale that they would adapt better to Venezuela and Venezuelans would adapt better to them (than, say, to Swedes), did not emigrate from their countries to give Venezuelans lessons in civics. They came for a better income and the majority of the roughly two million who did come returned home as soon as they had made enough to live better in their own lands. This emigration peaked during the 1980s, when Venezuela's economy took a tumble. It is possible that the proportion of the white population in Venezuela might have increased slightly. Many of the emigrants did make a lot of money and chose Venezuela as their country, but as to industrializing or increasing agricultural production, their effect was not and is not noticeable; and this for the simple reason that the Venezuelan government considered that diversified industrial development was its responsibility and private citizens of any nationality—in this sense, it can be said that Venezuela is perhaps the most un-discriminatory country in the world—were given ample rights in the areas of commerce, of services, and of other ancillary activities. Despite this insidious racism, it was under Pérez Jiménez that the mythification of the Amerindian caciques, who supposedly had resisted the conquistadors everywhere in Venezuela, was given a big boost, especially when an exchange house founded by an Italian immigrant (Italcambio) brought out a series of souvenir gold coins in which each cacique was depicted with facial traits that were invented out of whole cloth by Pérez Jiménez's laureate painter, Pedro Francisco Vallenilla. Despite his rigorous Catholic upbringing, Pérez Jiménez also encouraged the underlying animism of Venezuelans when he erected in the middle of Caracas’ first speedway a statue of Maria Lionza, a sort of Amerindian goddess who sits atop a tapir and is much worshipped in a jungle sanctuary in Yaracuy in central Venezuela.\n\nPérez Jiménez, confident that he had done good work as dictator, scheduled elections for 1952. His official party ran against COPEI and URD, which had only managed puny showings against AD in the presidential election of 1947. When the time came to vote, Venezuela's pardos wanted their adecos back and the exiled leadership of the party let it be known that it wanted URD to win. As the results started coming in showing that AD was still the political top dog in Venezuela, Pérez Jiménez shut down the polls, and the country, and after a few days, during which he probably was making sure that he counted with the loyalty of his generals, he published results that were so lopsidedly in his favor as to seem ludicrous. Pérez Jiménez thus inaugurated himself for another five years as president, and just as he had intended from the beginning.\n\nHe went on spending on infrastructure and way beyond this to gigantic industrial, agricultural, and power-generating projects. In foreign affairs, Venezuela was a faithful ally of the American government, although servile would probably be more to the point. When the government of the socialist Jacobo Arbenz in Guatemala was implementing real social reforms in a country that badly needed them, Venezuela was host to a conference of the OAS (Organization of American States) in which Guatemala was ostracized. Shortly afterwards the CIA sponsored a coup in which Arbenz was overthrown. Pérez Jiménez also changed entirely the face of Caracas with a building program such as the city had not seen since Guzman Blanco, and compared to what Pérez Jiménez built, Guzman's buildings, one of which Pérez Jiménez had cut at the nose, were dwarfs. The author of this \"face lifting\" was Luis Malausena, whose taste was in all to Pérez Jiménez's sense of grandeur and went from the ultra-modern to a non-descript \"neo-classicism\". The Caracas that one sees today is, then, the unimaginative creation of a character whom no one remembers, and no one probably will as, after he made millions upon millions, he fled the country with Pérez Jiménez, never to be seen again. \"Caraqueños\", incidentally, have never complained about the legacy of Malausena.\n\nThe next presidential election fell due by the end of 1957. Pérez Jiménez thought he had learned from the 1952 political debacle and instead of an election he decreed a plebiscite on his government. He probably knew he wasn’t going to win this one either, so the results were rigged. The people who queued to vote were civil servants and indirect employees of the government and its subordinate companies and institutions, who were instructed to show some proof that they had voted for the regime, usually by presenting the \"no\" card, although this was a silly ploy. All the government needed was a turnout, and that is what it got. Economically, Venezuela apparently was not doing so badly, but the signs of prosperity were mostly in the cities, and the countryside, where half of Venezuelans still lived, had social indexes way below what would have been expected from such a fiscally rich country.\n\nOn 11 June 1957 Fabricio Ojeda had invited two other Democratic Republican Union (URD) members and a Communist, Guillermo Garcia Ponce, to his home, and they agreed that the time was ripe to form a multi-partisan organisation aiming to overthrow Jiménez. The Patriotic Junta was soon joined by Democratic Action and COPEI, and used the only clandestine press left in Venezuela, that of the Communist Party of Venezuela, to publish a manifesto. The Junta ultimately played a leading role in coordinating the coup d'état that took place on 23 January 1958, including organising a general strike on 21 January.\n\nPérez Jiménez's illegitimacy was so patent that some officers conspired to overthrow him. There was also some cautious civilian clandestine agitation. On the last day of 1957, a military uprising coordinated by officers of air and tank forces struck, but the coordination was not that good. The air force rebels flew over Caracas and dropped randomly some bombs while a commander started out from Maracay with a column of tanks. Somehow the signals got crossed, the tanks turned back, and the pilots fled the country. These officers probably thought that Pérez Jiménez would turn tail in the face of this demonstration, but the bulk of the armed forces remained loyal.\n\nHowever, this show of defiance did set off a sequence of events which eventually made Pérez Jiménez fear for his political survival. The underground civilian opponents started goading the people in Caracas, where they needed little goading and were out in the streets whenever and wherever they could. The repressive secret police rounded up all civilian suspects, but this was like trying to do the little Dutch boy trick. The popular resistance to the government was not just a pardo thing and reached to all levels of society. The navy had taken a non-committal attitude in a situation where its guns were not of any service. It was not in on any conspiracy. There were signs of restiveness in the land forces with some officers working to rules, so to speak, but there was not at any time a military insurrection. But the crowds were getting bigger and bigger. Finally, with various suitcases stuffed with dollars, Pérez Jiménez took off in his private DC-3 and sought refuge in the Dominican Republic, where his resilient colleague, Rafael Leónidas Trujillo, had been ruling since 1930.\n\nThe flight of the dictator ushered in an amazing incident in the history of Venezuela. Pérez Jiménez had been unsure of whom to trust. He was arbitrary and authoritarian but there is no evidence that he was particularly courageous. Like Guzman Blanco, he possibly considered that hanging on to power was not worth the effort, especially considering that his fortune would allow him to live royally outside of Venezuela. When he fled, the country was for all practical purposes leaderless. The Caracas masses had no leader, because no one in the streets had the stature to be one, and any potential leader was in jail. For various days before his hasty departure, Pérez Jiménez had not been giving any inspiration or even orders to the army generals loyal to him, which were still a majority. There were junior officers here and there acting on their own. A military committee was functioning in the military academy. When these officers received word that Pérez Jiménez had left, they felt - reasonably enough - that it was up to them to exercise authority. Thus it was that Wolfgang Larrazábal, an admiral who owed to Pérez Jiménez his rise in the services and who had never manifested any disaffection to him, was chosen to lead the country solely because he outranked every one else. Had Pérez Jiménez ordered the commander of the Caracas garrison to arrest any officer not at his post and to put the fear of volleys into the crowds, he would have been obeyed, so in some way it redounds to his credit that, like Medina Angarita before him, he ran because he did not want bloodshed, although Medina had not run at all but had been imprisoned and released. As soon as it became unmistakable that Pérez Jiménez was out, the exiled politicians started streaming in. Larrazábal was made head of a civilian-military junta. Overnight, without having lifted a finger to deserve it, Larrazábal became the idol of Caracas, though in the rest of Venezuela the pardos were still adecos to the tip of their tails.\n\n1958 marked a crucial year in Venezuelan contemporary history. Larrazábal was a fluke. He had no more legitimacy than Pérez Jiménez and no sooner was the new government installed, committed to democratic elections before the end of the year, than the question of who really had overthrown Pérez Jiménez, the military uprising or the Caracas masses, became a disquieting issue. The original rebellious officers felt that they were entitled to rule and started brewing their own conspiracies. But Larrazábal was generally accepted as the leader of the armed forces. Most importantly, the political parties, which were busily rebuilding their national organizations, gave him their total support, including the few but vociferous communists. As before, it was Betancourt who proved the master organizer through his revived AD party. Another source of support for Larrazábal was that he decreed demagogic measures to conciliate the discontented masses. These measures were being legislated in an ad hoc manner and one in particular, the most influential, was completely irrational.\n\nA so-called Emergency Plan gave hand-outs to those who could claim they were unemployed. These popular subsidies were far above what the average Venezuelan earned in the rural areas and there followed inevitably a flood of migrants to Caracas, a city that before had few shantytowns, and settled and built shacks on the hillsides on the eastern and western edges of the valley in which Caracas nestles. The population of the city soon doubled with these rural, barely educated newcomers, who were obviously strongly pro-Larrazábal but were also a potential source of political de-stabilization. The pardos in effect became a force to be reckoned with in the forthcoming elections. But before these took place many things were occurring. The officers who felt they had been cheated staged various insurrections, even to an \"invasion\" by one of them from Colombia who managed to take over San Cristobal, the capital of Táchira state. All these conspiracies were contained although some required drastic means and at one point the Larrazábal government was in real danger of being toppled. The armed forces were instrumental in quelling the revolts, but each time there was one, Caracas mobs went wild prodded by the politicians.\n\nThe most menacing of these popular riots took place in May 1958 when U.S. vice-president Richard Nixon and his wife Pat visited Venezuela. Nixon represented the Dwight D. Eisenhower administration, which had conferred on Pérez Jiménez the Legion of Merit. The Venezuelan government had not anticipated the raging public reaction to this emissary from Washington, possibly because it thought that it had assuaged public indignation by allowing the hysterical daily denigration of the former dictator. Venezuelans were not that versed in foreign affairs, but the communists were and it was at their instigation that crowds assaulted Nixon's motorcade along an avenue that ran close to where many shantytowns had grown, ironically not far from a huge apartment complex that Pérez Jiménez had built for workers. Before the Venezuelan army intervened—preventing a ready-to-go Marines intervention—Nixon's car had been rocked back and forth, its windows had been smashed, and the vice-president and his wife had been thoroughly drenched in spit. As would be expected, once safe in the American embassy residence, Nixon let loose with imprecations and he returned quickly to the U.S. It says well of him that when he reported on his trip, which was meant as a fact-finding and conciliatory gesture to Latin America, he stressed that his country was partly to blame for the unfriendly reception in Caracas.\n\nDuring the Cuban Revolution of the 1950s, a number of liberal organisations in Venezuela declared their support for Fidel Castro's guerrilla operations against Batista. The Venezuelan government refrained from taking a position on the Cuban rebellion, but unofficially during Larrazábal's Presidency contributed 50,000 dollars to Castro's revolutionaries.\n\nAs the elections approached, the three main parties, Democratic Action, COPEI and Democratic Republican Union (URD), initiated talks to form a united political front \"in defence of democracy\". This implied, if not a single candidate chosen among them, at least an understanding for future cooperation in ruling Venezuela. The pact, known as the Punto Fijo Pact (hence \"puntofijismo\") remained essentially in place until Hugo Chávez' victory in 1998. The wily Betancourt, who sometimes is referred to as the \"father of Venezuelan democracy\" (much less in than before), insisted that the Communist Party of Venezuela were not to be included in the political talks, and excluded they were but took it very calmly. The chances of one candidate were slim and nothing came out of the negotiations except a well-meaning consensus that the parties would stick together in the defence of democracy from whatever threats might arise in the future. This meant that the electoral process was on and that each party had to look itself.\n\nAnother significant pact that emerged during 1958 was the unspoken one by which the civilian political leadership, particularly Rómulo Betancourt, agreed not to interfere with the military in any way and let them run their own affairs. The military in their turn pledged that they would not allow politicization within their ranks — to the extent that they even renounced their own right to vote (voting became compulsory for the rest of the Venezuelans).\n\nAD knew that it remained the most popular party all over Venezuela: it chose Betancourt as its candidate. Rafael Caldera had no rivals in COPEI, the party he founded, and he entered the political fray counting on the conservative middle class. Jóvito Villalba and his URD party adopted an opportunistic strategy, which was practically an admission that they could not compete with the AD national pardo popular base. It was the pardo masses in Caracas that Villalba was targeting when, instead of nominating himself, he chose Larrazábal, who also had the communists with him, to be the URD candidate. Larrazábal turned over the provisional presidency to a civilian, Edgar Sanabria, in October, and went on the campaign trail. When the results were in, Betancourt was elected for the term that ended in 1964, but this time by a plurality and not the absolute majorities that AD had achieved in 1946 and 1947. Caracas was no longer an AD redoubt. The city from then on became a marginal that could swing in any direction and this time it went all out for Larrazábal, who came in second. Caldera did not do badly in third place and received proportionally more votes than he had in 1947. But the Venezuelan panorama was cloudy at best.\n"}
{"id": "11743327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11743327", "title": "Independence II culture", "text": "Independence II culture\n\nIndependence II was a Paleo-Eskimo culture that flourished in northern and northeastern Greenland from around 700 to 80 BC, north and south of the Independence Fjord. The Independence II culture existed in roughly the same areas of Greenland as the Independence I culture, which became extinct six centuries before the beginning of Independence II.\n\nIndependence II is attested in northern Greenland by settlements on central Peary Land. There, it is estimated that the Independence II population was of no more than four to six families, and that it must therefore have been in contact with people of Ellesmere island in Canada or with people in north-eastern Greenland.\n\nIt has been argued that there is virtually no difference in the material cultures of Independence II and the contemporary Dorset culture in southern Greenland, locally known as Dorset I. Those that lump these two entities together refer to them jointly as \"Greenlandic Dorset\". Unlike Independence II, to the south, Dorset I persisted to at least AD 800.\n\nDanish explorer Eigil Knuth first recognised the existence of Independence I and II.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1368578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368578", "title": "International law and the Arab–Israeli conflict", "text": "International law and the Arab–Israeli conflict\n\nThe International law bearing on issues of Arab–Israeli conflict, which became a major arena of regional and international tension since the birth of Israel in 1948, resulting in several disputes between a number of Arab countries and Israel.\n\nThere is an international consensus that some of the actions of the states involved in the Arab–Israeli conflict violate international law, but some of the involved states dispute this.\n\nIn the Six-Day War in 1967, Israel invaded and occupied territory that had itself been invaded and occupied by neighboring Egypt, Syria and Jordan in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. Following the peace treaties between Israel and Egypt and Israel and Jordan, in which the states relinquished their claims to the Israeli-occupied territory, the conflict today mostly revolves around the Palestinians.\n\nThe main points of dispute (also known as the \"core issues\" or \"final status issues\") are the following:\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly has voted on a resolution bearing on issues of international law as applied to the conflict every year since 1974.\n\nUnlike a treaty agreement, customary international law is usually not written. Customs of a longstanding nature can be codified by formal treaties. The Laws and Customs of War on Land (Hague Convention IV) of 18 October 1907 and the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 are examples of conventional laws that are declarations of customary law.\nTo prove that a certain rule is customary one has to show that it is reflected in state practice and that there exists a conviction in the international community that such practice is required as a matter of law. In this context, \"practice\" relates to official state practice and therefore includes formal statements by states. A contrary practice by some states is possible because if this contrary practice is condemned by the other states, or subsequently denied by the government itself, the original rule is actually confirmed.\n\nIn accordance with article 13 of the UN Charter, the General Assembly is obligated to initiate studies and to make recommendations that encourage the progressive development of international law and its codification. Acting in that agreed-upon treaty capacity, the General Assembly affirmed the principles of international law that were recognized by the Charter of the Nuremberg Tribunal and directed that they should be codified. Many of those same principles were subsequently adopted for inclusion in draft treaties that were under development by the International Law Commission of the United Nations. They were also incorporated through the agreement of the High Contracting Parties into the Geneva Conventions of 1949. In 1993 the UN Security Council \"acting under Chapter VII of the Charter on the United Nations\" established an international tribunal and approved a Statute that had been recommended in a report submitted by the UN Secretary-General. It concluded beyond doubt that the law applicable in armed conflict as embodied in the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 and the Hague Convention (IV) of 18 October 1907 had become part of international customary law, and should be part of the subject matter jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. In 1998, the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries approved the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The offenses against unwritten customary international law were amenable to prosecution by international tribunals, like the Nuremberg Tribunal, long before they were codified and incorporated into the subsequent treaties.\n\nMany provisions of international law are based upon principles and norms that were developed in the Americas during the 19th century. They include the principle of uti possidetis of 1810 and the related Monroe Doctrine of 1823, regarding non-colonization and non-intervention. In 1890, the First International Conference of American States adopted a proscription against territorial conquest and agreed upon the non-recognition of all acquisitions made by force.\nThose principles and regional understandings were recognized in Article 21 of the Covenant of the League of Nations. The system of mandates contained in article 22 of the Covenant was based in part upon those normative declarations and state practices. The Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1928, and the League of Nations approval of the Stimson Doctrine in 1931 were efforts designed to end the practice of coercive territorial revisionism through international law.\n\nAfter World War II, the principles of international law that upheld the territorial integrity of states were incorporated in the Charter of the United Nations, and subsequently reaffirmed in the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, the Organization of African Unity charter respecting the integrity of inherited boundaries, and the 1975 CSCE Helsinki Final Act which contained a proscription that boundaries could only be altered by consent. The Chapter on Fundamental Rights and Duties of States in the Charter of the Organization of American States provides that:The territory of a State is inviolable; it may not be the object, even temporarily, of military occupation or of other measures of force taken by another State, directly or indirectly, on any grounds whatever. No territorial acquisitions or special advantages obtained either by force or by other means of coercion shall be recognized.\n\nIn their relations with other peoples and countries during the colonial era the Concert of Europe adopted a fundamental legal principle that the supreme legal authority, or sovereignty, lay outside the indigenous nations. That legal principle resulted in the creation of a large number of dependent states with restricted sovereignty or colonial autonomy. Various terms were used to describe different types of dependent states, such as condominium, mandate, protectorate, colony, and vassal state. After World War II there was strong international pressure to eliminate dependencies associated with colonialism.\n\nThe vast majority of the world's sovereign states resulted from the grant of independence to colonial peoples and dependent territories. Prior to World War II many states were formed as a result of wars that were resolved through peace treaties. Some of these peace treaties were imposed on the losing side in a war; others came about as a result of negotiations that followed wars, or were entered into under the threat of war. In these cases, the applicable law was bound in peace treaties among the states. The practice of territorial aggrandizement was prohibited by the UN Charter, a multilateral treaty, and the authoritative explanation of its legal principles contained in UN General Assembly resolution 2625 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, Declaration of Principles of International Law Concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation Among States in Accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. The purpose of the United Nations is the prevention and removal of threats to peace and the suppression of acts of aggression. The Charter requires that members shall refrain from the threat of, or use of force. According to \"communis opinio\" the obligations imposed by those provisions of the Charter have become part of customary international law and are binding on all States, whether they are members of the United Nations or not.\n\nThe communities and Holy Places of Palestine have been under the express protection of international law since the early 19th century. For example, the International Court of Justice advisory opinion noted that access to the Christian, Jewish and Islamic Holy Places had been protected by various laws dating back to the early Ottoman Empire, with the latest provisions having been incorporated into the UN Partition Plan, article 13 of the League of Nations Mandate, and Article 62 of the Treaty of Berlin of 13 July 1878.\n\nThe Treaty of Paris in 1814 called for a congress of the Great Powers of Europe to settle the future boundaries of the continent. Nearly every state in Europe was represented, and among other things a prohibition on unilateral annexation was adopted. This bolstered the concept of territorial integrity, which was enshrined in the Congress of Vienna in 1815.\n\nThe 1856 Treaty of Paris declared that the Sublime Porte, the government of the Ottoman Empire, had been admitted to participate in the Public Law and System (Concert) of Europe. The European system of public law governed territorial accessions and the creation of new states. After the Russo-Turkish Wars in 1878, Russia and the Ottoman Empire concluded the Treaty of San Stefano. Because it modified the terms of the Treaty of Paris of 1856, the other signatories called for a Congress to obtain its revision. The Treaty of Berlin of 1878 was the result. Montenegro, Serbia, and Romania were recognized as new independent states and granted specific territory on condition that religious, political, and property rights of minorities were guaranteed on a nondiscriminatory basis. The delegates of the First Zionist Congress acknowledged these customary diplomatic precedents in the Basle Program. It stated that the aim of Zionism was the creation of a home for the Jewish people in Palestine, \"secured by public law\".\n\nDuring the course of the British mandate in Palestine, the British government sought to reconcile the two claims in different ways. A number of proposals and declarations were put forward, all of which were rejected by one party or the other, and usually both. Again, two different interpretations apply:\n\nAfter World War II, the British government decided to abandon its mandate in Palestine. A United Nations Commission (UNSCOP) was assigned to recommend a solution to the conflict to the General Assembly. The recommendation was a partition plan that would result in an Arab and a Jewish state in the remaining mandate, and Jerusalem under UN rule, was approved by the General Assembly.\n\nHowever, the resolution served partially as a basis for the Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel to take effect when Great Britain's mandate expired. Many states granted the State of Israel either \"de facto\" or \"de jure\" recognition. Israel was accepted as a sovereign member state in the United Nations and has diplomatic relations with many, but not all, sovereign states.\n\nSeveral events have affected the legal issues related to the conflict:\n\nSovereign states have the right to defend themselves against overt external aggression, in the form of an invasion or other attack. A number of states assert that this principle extends to the right to launch military actions to reduce a threat, protect vital interests, or pre-empt a possible attack or emerging threat.\n\nSecurity Council resolution 242, emphasized \"the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by war,\" setting the stage for controversy on the legal status of areas captured in 1967, and in 1948.\n\nThere are two interpretations of this matter:\nAs noted above, Israel, Egypt, and Jordan have resolved this impasse and have recognized international borders between these states. The dispute has now shifted to the conflict between the Palestinians and Israel.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions and other international tractates recognize that land a) conquered in the course of a war; and b) the disposition of which is unresolved through subsequent peace treaties is \"occupied\" and subject to international laws of war and international humanitarian law. This includes special protection of individuals in those territories, limitations on the use of land in those territories, and access by international relief agencies.\n\nRecognizing the controversial nature of sovereignty over Jerusalem, UNSCOP recommended that the city be placed under United Nations administration in the partition plan. This was approved by the General Assembly in November 1947, accepted by the Jews and rejected by the Arabs. However, the 1948–1949 war resulted in Israel occupying the western portion of the city. Israel made Jerusalem its capital in 1950, establishing governmental offices in areas it controlled. Soon afterward in 1950, Jordan annexed the eastern part along with the remainder of the West Bank.\n\nAfter the 1967 war, Israel put the parts of Jerusalem that had been captured during the war under its jurisdiction and civilian administration, establishing new municipal borders. Arguing that this did not amount to annexation at the time, subsequent legal actions have been interpreted as consistent with an annexation.\n\nOn July 30, 1980, the Knesset passed a basic law making \"Jerusalem, complete and united…the capital of Israel.\" Since then Israel has extended the municipal boundaries several times.\n\nOn October 6, 2002, Yasser Arafat signed the Palestinian Legislative Council's law making Al Quds \"the eternal capital of Palestine.\"\n\nInternational bodies such as the United Nations have condemned Israel's Basic Law concerning Jerusalem as a violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention and therefore hold that the establishment of the city as Israel's capital is against international law. Consequently, countries have established embassies to Israel's government outside of Jerusalem. Similarly, missions to the Palestinian National Authority are at the insistence of Israel's government located outside of Jerusalem.\n\nIsrael has filed strenuous protests against this policy, asserting that:\n\nIn its 2004 advisory opinion on the legality of the Israeli West Bank barrier, the International Court of Justice concluded that the lands captured by Israel in the 1967 war, including East Jerusalem, are occupied territory.\n\n\"See related articles Israeli settlement and International law and Israeli settlements.\"\n\nArticle 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention states in paragraph 1, \n\n\"Individual or mass forcible transfers, as well as deportations of protected persons from occupied territory to the territory of the Occupying Power or to that of any other country, occupied or not, are prohibited, regardless of their motive.\"\n\nand states in paragraph 6,\n\n\"The Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies.\"\nArguments supporting the position that establishing, funding, or allowing settlements in the territories is a violation of international law are,\n\nArguments supporting the position that settlement in the territories does not violate international law are,\n\n\nIsrael has completed long stretches of barriers within the West Bank, separating Israel proper, Israeli settlements and large parts of the Palestinian territories from Palestinian cities and population centers.\n\nIn 2004, the United Nations passed a number of resolutions and the International Court of Justice issued a ruling where judges ruled 14–1 that the portions of the Israeli West Bank barrier that are located within occupied Palestinian territories are illegal under international law. Prior to the ruling, Israel had made the claim that the ICJ lacked standing to rule on the legality of the barrier, which the court unanimously rejected. On July 20, 2004, the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution demanding that Israel obey the ICJ ruling. 150 nations voted in favor of the resolution, 7 voted against, and 10 abstained.\n\nIn October 2003, the United States vetoed a United Nations Security Council resolution, which stated:\n\n\"The construction by Israel, the occupying power, of a wall in the Occupied Territories departing from the armistice line of 1949 is illegal under relevant provisions of international law and must be ceased and reversed.\"\nThe United Kingdom, Germany, Bulgaria, and Cameroon abstained from the vote. The justification given by the U.S. for the veto was that the resolution did not condemn terrorist attacks made by Palestinian groups (see Negroponte doctrine). The United States, however, has been condemned by some countries for its support of the barrier.\n\nOne week later, on October 21, a similar (though non-binding) resolution (ES-10/13) was passed by the UN General Assembly 144-4 with 12 abstentions. The resolution said the barrier was \"in contradiction to international law\", and demanded that Israel \"stop and reverse\" its construction. Israel called the resolution a \"farce\".\n\nIn December 2003, the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution requesting the International Court of Justice (ICJ) to make a non-binding advisory opinion on the \"legal consequences arising\" from the construction of the barrier.\n\nThe hearings began in February 2004. The Palestinian Authority is not a member of the court but was allowed to make a submission by virtue of being a UN observer and a co-sponsor of the General Assembly resolution. In January 2004, the court also authorized the League of Arab States and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference to make submissions.\n\nIsrael initially announced that it would cooperate with the court, while noting that advisory rulings of the ICJ are not binding. Israel later made a written submission to the court rejecting the authority of the court to rule on the case, but announced (on February 12, 2004) that it would not appear at the court to make oral submissions.\n\nOn January 30, 2004, Israel announced officially it did not recognize ICJ authority to rule over the barrier issue. Israel also dispatched a 120-page document, elaborating on the security needs to build the \"terror prevention fence\" and purporting to demonstrate the atrocities committed by Palestinian terrorists. The document also included a judicial part with legal accounts supporting Israel's claim that the issue of the barrier is political and not in the ICJ authority.\n\nOn 23, 24, and 25 February 2004 the hearings before the International Court of Justice took place in the Peace Palace at the Hague.\n\nOn July 9, 2004, the International Court of Justice issued its opinion against the barrier, calling for it to be removed and the Arab residents to be compensated for any damage done. The Court advised that the United Nations General Assembly, which had asked for the ruling, and the Security Council should act on the issue.\n\nA summary of the ruling is as follows:\n\nThe opinion was passed 14-1 by the court judges, except for the 4th decision which was passed 13–2.\n\nThomas Buergenthal, the American judge, was the sole dissenting member of the 15 judges on this ICJ panel. In his declaration, he stated that there was much in the court's opinion with which he agreed but that the court should have declined to hear the case since it did not have before it \"relevant facts bearing directly on issues of Israel's legitimate right of self-defense\". He stated that his dissenting opinion \"should not be seen as reflecting my view that the construction of the wall by Israel on the Occupied Palestinian Territory does not raise serious questions as a matter of international law.\" On the point of portions of the wall that were being built beyond the green line, which Israel stated were to defend settlements, Buergenthal stated:\n\n\"Paragraph 6 of Article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention also does not admit exceptions on grounds of military or security exigencies. It provides that \"the Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies\". I agree that this provision applies to the Israeli settlements in the West Bank and that their existence violates Article 49, paragraph 6. It follows that the segments of the wall being built by Israel to protect the settlements are \"ipso facto\" in violation of international humanitarian law. Moreover, given the demonstrable great hardship to which the affected Palestinian population is being subjected in and around the enclaves created by those segments of the wall, seriously doubt that the wall would here satisfy the proportionality requirement to qualify as a legitimate measure of self-defence.\"\n\nThe opinion was accepted by the United Nations General Assembly, on July 20, 2004, it passed a resolution demanding that Israel obey the ICJ ruling. Israel, the US, Australia, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau voted against the resolution, 10 nations abstained, and 150 nations voted in favor.\n\nPalestinian leader Yasser Arafat said: \"This is an excellent decision. This is a victory for the Palestinian people and for all the free peoples of the world.\"\n\nIsrael rejected the ICJ ruling and emphasized the barrier's self-defense aspect , and stressed that Israel will continue to build the barrier. The United States also rejected the ruling, declaring that the issue was of political rather than legal nature. Colin Powell stated that barrier was effective against terror, and noted that the ICJ ruling was not binding, but insisted that Israel not use the barrier to predetermine permanent borders. \n\nNumerous human rights organizations welcomed the ICJ ruling. Amnesty International said that Israel should immediately cease constructing the barrier. The governments of Israel's neighbors Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, and Egypt also welcomed the ruling.\n\nOn July 13, 2004, the US House of Representatives passed Resolution HR 713 deploring \"the misuse of the International Court of Justice (ICJ)... for the narrow political purpose of advancing the Palestinian position on matters Palestinian authorities have said should be the subject of negotiations between the parties.\" The Resolution further stated that twenty-three countries, including every member of the G8 and several other European states, had \"submitted objections on various grounds against the ICJ hearing the case.\"\n\nThe tractate that is most often invoked for legally defining refugees is the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. The definition of \"refugee\" is most often summarized as\n\n\"... a person who is outside his/her country of nationality or habitual residence; has a well-founded fear of persecution because of his/her race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion; and is unable or unwilling to avail himself/herself of the protection of that country, or to return there, for fear of persecution.\" The convention is administered by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).\nThe United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), which was established prior to the 1951 convention in response to the humanitarian crisis, applies a different definition:\n\n\"Under UNRWA's operational definition, Palestine refugees are persons whose normal place of residence was Palestine between June 1946 and May 1948, who lost both their homes and means of livelihood as a result of the 1948 Arab–Israeli conflict. UNRWA's services are available to all those living in its area of operations who meet this definition, who are registered with the Agency and who need assistance. UNRWA's definition of a refugee also covers the descendants of persons who became refugees in 1948.\"\nSince the definition used by UNRWA was originally made on an operational basis rather than dictated by specific international law, obligations and rights related to Palestinian refugees under international law are a matter of some debate. The debate centers on questions such as: whether the status of refugees can properly be passed through inheritance to individuals who have never lived in the vacated areas, and whether individuals who have repatriated in other countries can legally claim refugee status.\n\nPalestinian refugees were excluded from the 1951 Convention due to the clause that \"This Convention shall not apply to persons who are at present receiving from organs or agencies of the United Nations other than the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees protection or assistance.\" As interpreted by UNHCR, this caused some anomalies, since UNRWA admits some persons as refugees that are not automatically admitted by the Convention, and, conversely, some of the legal protections given to refugees by the Convention were not available to most Palestinians. In 2002, UNHCR adopted a revised interpretation that fills some of these gaps. The BADIL Resource Center for Palestinian Residency and Refugee Rights published a critical analysis of UNHCR revised interpretation of the 1951 Refugee Convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "336335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336335", "title": "James Ossuary", "text": "James Ossuary\n\nThe James Ossuary is a 1st-century limestone box that was used for containing the bones of the dead. An Aramaic inscription in the Hebrew alphabet meaning \"James, son of Joseph, brother of Jesus\" is cut into one side of the box. The inscription is considered significant because, if genuine, it might provide archaeological evidence for Jesus of Nazareth. However, while the ossuary itself is accepted as authentic to the time period, the inscription itself could be a modern forgery.\n\nThe existence of the ossuary was announced at an October 21, 2002 Washington press conference co-hosted by the Discovery Channel and the Biblical Archaeology Society. The owner of the ossuary is Oded Golan, an Israeli engineer and antiquities collector. The initial translation of the inscription was done by André Alexandre Lemaire, a Semitic epigrapher, whose article claiming that the ossuary and its inscription were authentic was published in the November/December 2002 \"Biblical Archaeology Review\".\n\nIn 2003, The Israel Antiquities Authority (IAA) determined that the inscriptions were forged at a much later date. In December 2004, Oded Golan was charged with 44 counts of forgery, fraud and deception, including forgery of the Ossuary inscription. The trial lasted seven years before Judge Aharon Farkash came to a verdict. On March 14, 2012, Golan was acquitted of the forgery charges but convicted of illegal trading in antiquities. The judge said this acquittal \"does not mean that the inscription on the ossuary is authentic or that it was written 2,000 years ago\". The ossuary was returned to Golan, who put it on public display.\n\nAn ossuary is a stone (usually limestone) depository for storing bones of the dead, considered a luxury for the elite. The dead would lie on a loculus in a tomb for a year of decomposition, and then the remains would be collected and placed in an ossuary. Depending on the wealth and taste of the family, the box would sometimes be inscribed with decorations or the name of the deceased. The James Ossuary measures , which is slightly smaller for than other ossuaries of the time. If the inscription on the James Ossuary is genuine, the inscription may indicate that the ossuary was that of James the Just, the brother of Jesus, the founder of Christianity.\n\nProfessor Camil Fuchs of Tel Aviv University stated that, other than James Ossuary, only one has been found so far in thousands of ossuaries, which contains a reference to a brother, concluding that \"there is little doubt that this [naming a brother or son] was done only when there was a very meaningful reason to refer to a family member of the deceased, usually due to his importance and fame.\" He produced a statistical analysis of the occurrence of these three names in ancient Jerusalem and projected that there were 1.71 people named James, with a father named Joseph and a brother named Jesus, living in Jerusalem around the time at which the ossuary was produced.\n\nThe existence of the James Ossuary was announced at a press conference in Washington, D.C., on October 21, 2002. It was organized by Hershel Shanks, founder of the Biblical Archaeology Society. He presented it as the first direct archaeological link to the historical Jesus.\n\nShanks also announced that the ossuary would be featured at an exhibit at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, Canada, opening the following month. The opening was to coincide with meetings of scholarly groups like the Society of Biblical Literature and American Academy of Religion that were to take place in the city in November.\n\nThe James Ossuary came from the Silwan area in the Kidron Valley, southeast of the Temple Mount. The bones originally inside the ossuary had been discarded, which is the case in nearly all ossuaries not discovered by archaeologists. The first-century origin of the ossuary is not in question, since the only time Jews buried in that fashion was from approximately 20 BC to the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. The dispute centres on the date of origin of the inscription.\n\nAccording to André Lemaire, the Parisian epigrapher initially invited by antiquities dealer Oded Golan to view the ossuary in Golan's apartment, the cursive Aramaic script is consistent with first-century lettering. He determined that the inscription was not incised with modern tools, as it contains no elements not available in the ancient world. The first part of the inscription, \"James son of Joseph,\" seems more deeply incised than the latter \"brother of Jesus.\" This may be due to the inscription being made at a different time, or due to differences in the hardness of the limestone.\n\nThe fragile condition of the ossuary attests to its antiquity. The Israel Geological Survey submitted the ossuary to a variety of scientific tests, which determined that the limestone of the ossuary had a patina or sheen consistent with being in a cave for many centuries. The same type of patina covers the incised lettering of the inscription as the rest of the surface. It is claimed that if the inscription were recent, this would not be the case.\n\nOn June 18, 2003 the Israeli Antiquities Authority (IAA) published a report concluding that the inscription is a modern forgery based on their analysis of the patina. Specifically, it claimed that the inscription was added in modern times and made to look old by addition of a chalk solution. In 2006, Wolfgang Elisabeth Krumbein, a world's renowned expert in stone patinas called by the defense counsel, analyzed the ossuary, and concluded that \"the inscription is ancient and most of the original patina has been removed (by cleaning or use of sharp implement)\". He further noted in his report, \"any forgery of three very distinct types of patina, if ever possible, requires the development of ultra-advanced techniques, in-depth knowledge and extensive collaboration of a large number of experts from various fields\". According to his analysis, the patina inside the inscription took at least 50 years to form; thus, if it is a forgery, then it was forged more than 50 years ago.\n\nIn 2004, an analysis of the ossuary's Petrography and oxygen isotopic composition was conducted by Avner Ayalon, Miryam Bar-Matthews and Yuval Goren. They compared the \"δ\"O values of the letters patina from the James Ossuary, with the patina sampled from the uninscribed surfaces of the same item (\"surface patina\"), and with surface and letters patinas from legally excavated ossuaries from Jerusalem. Their study undermined the authenticity contention of the ossuary. However, Dr James Harrell, professor of Archaeological Geology at the University of Toledo, provided an explanation for this \"δ\"O discrepancy. He suggested that a cleanser may have been the source of the low \"δ\"O readings, which antiquities dealers and collectors often use to clean the artifacts to increase value. He tested the most popular cleanser sold in Israel and confirmed that the \"δ\"O value of the cleanser was consistent with the \"δ\"O value of the patina in the inscription.\n\nA later study done with a different isotope found that the \"δ\"C values of the surface patina and the inscription patina were almost identical.\n\nIn 2007 Finnish theologian Matti Myllykoski (Arto Matti Tuomas Myllykoski) summarised the current position thus: \"The authenticity and significance of the ossuary has been defended by Shanks (2003), while some scholars—relying on convincing evidence, to say the least—strongly suspect that it is a modern forgery.\"\n\nIn 2008, an archaeometric analysis conducted by Amnon Rosenfeld, Howard Randall Feldman, and Wolfgang Elisabeth Krumbein strengthened the authenticity contention of the ossuary. It found that patina on the ossuary surface matched that in the engravings, and that microfossils in the inscription seemed naturally deposited.\n\nLimor Livnat, Israeli Minister of Culture, mandated the work of a scientific commission to study the suspicious finds. IAA began an investigation into the affair. The James Ossuary was authentic—albeit unusual in shape—but they claimed the inscription was a fake.\n\nHowever, in an external expert report, dated September 2005, Wolfgang E. Krumbein entered the controversy. His conclusions contradict those of the IAA stating \"Our preliminary investigations cannot prove the authenticity of the three objects beyond any doubt. Doubtlessly the patina is continuous in many places throughout surface and lettering grooves in the case of ossuary and tablet. On the other hand a proof of forgery is not given by the experts nominated by the IAA.\"\n\nThe Israeli Antiquities Authority has failed to offer any report explaining why it concluded the ossuary is a forgery. Unsurprisingly, international experts are unable to give their opinions on the ossuary's authenticity until the IAA allows scholars to review its findings.\n\nEdward John Keall, the Senior Curator at the Royal Ontario Museum (ROM), Near Eastern & Asian Civilizations Department, continues to argue for the ossuary’s authenticity, saying \"the ROM has always been open to questioning the ossuary's authenticity, but so far no definitive proof of forgery has yet been presented, in spite of the current claims being made.\"\n\nThe \"Biblical Archaeology Review\" also continued to defend the ossuary. In articles in the February 2005 issues, several paleographic experts argue that the James Ossuary is authentic and should be examined by specialists outside of Israel. Another article claims the cleaning of the James Ossuary before it was examined may have caused the problem with the patina. On June 13, 2012 a \"Biblical Archaeology Review\" press release announced the first major post-trial analysis of the ossuary, discussing the plausibility of its authenticity and using statistical analysis of ancient names to suggest that in contemporary Jerusalem, there would be 1.71 people named James with a father Joseph and a brother named Jesus.\n\nOded Golan claimed publicly to believe his finds were genuine. Hershel Shanks declared that he did not believe the evidence of forgery and launched a personal complaint against IAA director Shuka Dorfman. Lemaire supported his original assessment when Frank Cross regretted Shanks' attitude. The Royal Ontario Museum, in its statement about Oded Golan's arrest and the validity of the so-called James Ossuary stated, \"There is always a question of authenticity when objects do not come from a controlled archaeological excavation, as is the case with the James Ossuary.\" However, the museum's decision to rush the ossuary into an exhibition was criticized by scholars. Eric M. Meyers called the ROM \"reckless\", and Joe Zias said, \"They saw the opportunity to make a fast buck and they did it.\" The Israel Antiquities Authority desires to limit the trade in Bible-era artifacts, which they believe encourages grave robbers, who smuggle the choicest finds out of the country.\n\nOn 29 December 2004, the Israeli Justice Ministry charged Golan, three other Israelis, and one Palestinian, with running a forgery ring that had been operating for more than twenty years. Golan was indicted in an Israeli court along with his three co-defendants: Robert Deutsch, an epigraphy expert who has given lectures at the University of Haifa; collector Shlomo Cohen; and antiquities dealer Faiz al-Amaleh. They were accused of manufacturing numerous artifacts, including an Ivory pomegranate which had previously been generally accepted as the only proven relic from the Temple of King Solomon. Golan denied the charges.\n\nIn February, 2007, at Golan's trial, the defense produced photographs taken in Golan's home that were dated to 1976. In these photographs, the ossuary is shown on a shelf. In an enlargement, the whole inscription can be seen. The photographs were printed on 1970s photographic paper and stamped March 1976. The photo was examined by Gerald Richard, a former FBI agent and an expert for the defense. Richard testified that nothing about the photographs suggested that they were produced other than in 1976 as the stamps and paper indicated. These photographs undermined the prosecution's theory that the ossuary was a recent forgery by Golan intended to be sold for profit. Golan's attorney, Lior Beringer argued, \"The prosecution claims that Golan forged the inscription after the beginning of 2000, however, there is a detailed report from an FBI photo lab that states that the inscription existed at least since the 70s. It is unreasonable that someone would forge an inscription like this in the 70s and suddenly decide to come out with it in 2002.\" However, it would also be necessary for some time to pass for a forgery to acquire the characteristics of an authentic patina. Later under oath, the government's chief scientific witness, Professor Yuval Goren of Tel Aviv University admitted on cross-examination that there was original ancient patina in the word \"Jesus.\"\n\nTwo paleographers, André Lemaire of the Sorbonne and Ada Yardeni of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, pronounced it as authentic in the trial. No paleographer of repute has challenged their analysis. In fact, Yardeni, who is considered a household name in the field, testified that the inscription is no doubt of ancient origin inscribed by a single individual, and stated, \"If this is a forgery, I quit.\" By 2009, many of the world's top archaeological experts had testified for both the prosecution and defense. Judge Aharon Farkash, who has a degree in archaeology, indicated difficulty in making a judgment regarding the objects' authenticity if the professors could not agree amongst themselves. In the second week of October 2010, the judge in the case against Golan and others retired to consider his verdict.\n\nOn March 14, 2012, Jerusalem Judge Aharon Farkash stated \"that there is no evidence that any of the major artifacts were forged, and that the prosecution failed to prove their accusations beyond a reasonable doubt.\" He was particularly scathing about tests carried out by the Israel police forensics laboratory that he said had probably contaminated the ossuary, making it impossible to carry out further scientific tests on the inscription. On May 30, 2012, Oded Golan was fined 30,000 shekels and sentenced to one month in jail for minor non-forgery charges related to the trial. As he spent time incarcerated at the start of the case, he did not have to serve any time in prison.\n\nOn February 26, 2007 a news conference was held at the New York Public Library by director James Cameron and Simcha Jacobovici to discuss their documentary \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\", which discusses the 1980 finding of the Talpiot Tomb, which they claim is in fact Jesus' family tomb. In the film, they also suggest that the so-called James ossuary is actually the \"missing link\" from the tomb (at the original discovery of the Talpiot Tomb, there were ten ossuaries, however one has since been lost—Jacobovici suggests the James Ossuary could be the tenth from Talpiot). According to the film, \"recent tests conducted at the CSI Suffolk Crime lab in New York demonstrate that the patina (a chemical film encrustation on the box) from the James ossuary matches the patina from the other ossuaries in the Talpiot tomb.\"\n\nFollowing the 4 March 2007 airing of \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\" on the Discovery Channel, Ted Koppel aired a program entitled \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus: A Critical Look\", whose guests included the director Simcha Jacobovici, James Tabor (a consultant and advisor on the docudrama), Johnathan Reed, Professor of Religion at the University of LaVerne and co-author of \"Excavating Jesus Beneath the Stones, Behind the Text\", and William Dever, an archaeologist with 40 plus years experience in Middle Eastern archaeological digs.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" in an article of 28 February 2007 quotes Dever as saying, \"I just think it's a shame the way this story is being hyped and manipulated\" and \"all of the names [contained in the tomb] are common.\" In fact, two of the names found in the tomb are unique among known ossuaries, and Jacobovici's argument does not in any case rely on the commonness or uncommonness of individual names, but on the statistical probability of finding a set of names in a single tomb.\n\nAlan Cooperman, writer of the \"Washington Post\" article also states:\n\nIn the docudrama \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\", Simcha Jacobovici claims:\n\nDuring Ted Koppel's critique, \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus: A Critical Look\", Koppel stated he had denials from three people Simcha Jacobovici had misquoted in the documentary.\n\nAdditionally, Simcha Jacobovici's association of the ossuary with the 'Tomb of Jesus' seems to be excluded by the 1976 photograph of the ossuary presented at trial. The assertions of \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\" are not supported by the overwhelming majority of scholars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2528003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2528003", "title": "Juan Francisco Masdeu", "text": "Juan Francisco Masdeu\n\nJuan Francisco Masdeu (4 October 1744 – 1817), Spanish historian, was born at Palermo. He joined the Company of Jesus on 19 December 1759 and became professor in the Jesuit seminaries at Ferrara and Ascoli. He visited Spain in 1799, was exiled, and returned in 1815, dying at Valencia on 11 April 1817.\n\nHis \"Storia critica di Spagne e della cultura spagnuola in ogni genere\" (2 vols., 1781–1784) was finally expanded into the \"Historia crítica de España y de la cultura española\" (1783–1805), which, though it consists of twenty volumes, was left unfinished; had it been continued on the same scale, the work would have consisted of fifty volumes. Masdeu wrote in a critical spirit and with a regard for accuracy rare in his time; but he is more concerned with small details than with the philosophy of history. Still, his narrative is lucid, and later researches have not yet rendered his work obsolete.\n\n"}
{"id": "1470636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470636", "title": "Jörg Friedrich (author)", "text": "Jörg Friedrich (author)\n\nJörg Friedrich (sometimes spelt Joerg or Jorg in English) (born 17 August 1944 in Kitzbühel) is a German author and historian. Friedrich is best known for his publication \"Der Brand\" (2002), in which he portrays the Allied bombing of civilian targets during World War II as systematic and in many ways pointless mass murder. An English translation, \"The Fire\", was published in 2006 by Columbia University Press and met with widespread critical approval. For example, the \"New York Times\" said it \"describes in stark, unrelenting and very literary detail what happened in city after city as the Allies dropped 80 million incendiary bombs on Germany... There is... an edginess to Friedrich's writing and commentary, an emotional power.\"\n\nFriedrich was formerly considered a left-wing antiwar activist and described as a student Trotskyist. His books have sold hundreds of thousands of copies in Germany, and some have also been translated into English, Dutch, French and many other languages. He is well connected in German political and military circles and is a friend of former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. He has published interviews with Rudolf Bahro and Raul Hilberg when their books were published. His new book \"14/18 Der Weg nach Versailles\" focusses on the First World War.\n\nFor his work \"The Law of War: The German Army in Russia\" Friedrich has been awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Amsterdam in the Netherlands.\n\nBorn in Kitzbühel in 1944, he spent his childhood in Essen. Jörg Friedrich became a Trotskyist and, during the Vietnam war, an antiwar protester. Following thereon, he began to write books on the history of the war in Germany and work as an independent historian, researching postwar justice and the Nuremberg Trials. His books have always been controversial and have largely sold through this controversial analysis and the publicity surrounding them.\n\nAs a historian who has written strongly on the horrors committed by the German state under the Nazis, Friedrich's position has always been assumed to be anti-Nazi with antiwar tendencies focused towards Germany's taking responsibility for its actions during the war.\n\nFriedrich admits that Germany initiated bombing of civilians in the UK by bombing London, although he claims the first raid was accidental, thereby leaving Britain as the first nation to deliberately bomb nonmilitary targets. This entirely ignores the German bombing of English cities during the First World War, using Zeppelin and other rigid airships. During the Spanish civil war, German airplanes bombed the town of Guernica in April 1937, which had no military use or value.\n\nLess well-known bombings, such as that of the Polish town of Wieluń within the first two hours of the war and prior to any attack on Germany, either by air or land, are left out. Friedrich mentions the British use of explosive weapons followed by incendiary, a mixture designed to create large fires. He also mentions that the technique to create firestorms was a German development first seen in the bombing against British cities, such as the Coventry Blitz (14 November 1940) and the Second Great Fire of London (29/30 December 1940).\n\nFriedrich was persuaded to publish his book of Dresden photographs by Former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl;, with the condition that equivalent photographs of Polish and British victims should also be shown.\n\nFriedrich has specifically attempted to claim the position of an objective historian, making \"no judgement about the morality of Allied bombing\". Many reviews of his books have pointed out that the language Friedrich uses in his books, with words such as \"Einsatzgruppen\" (task force in English) used to describe allied pilots and \"crematoria\" (as in the crematoria of Auschwitz) to describe the air raid shelters in which Dresden residents died. This has led to accusations that Friedrich \"is downright reckless\" and is attempting to make the reader consider a parallel to \"the Nazi dehumanisation of the Jews.\".\n\nTaken together, two explanations have been given for Friedrich's recent books and their choice of topics. The first is that Friedrich maintains strong antiwar feelings, and with the looming War in Iraq and other global conflicts, Friedrich wanted to join in the general German antiwar feelings and implicitly criticise the policy of attacks on foreign nonmilitary targets in Iraq. Friedrich has himself rejected this explanation, stating that he \"is dismayed that \"The Fire\" has bolstered the pacifist argument against German participation in an Iraq war\".\n\nThe second explanation that has been given is that Friedrich, whilst probably still anti-Nazi, has been acting as a German nationalist and trying to put into a reasonable perspective the crimes of some German officials in World War II as not different from, or not even worse than, the many atrocities committed by the other nations involved in the war.\n\nOther German historians closer to the mainstream of historical research have also covered the suffering of the German people during the war. The bombing of Dresden had been covered in detail by Götz Bergander prior to Friedrich's book.\n\nFriedrich has cooperated with historians from various countries, including Peter Maguire, during the creation of his book \"Land and War\".\n\nFriedrich's books have not been well received by some media outlets in Germany. ARD, a public television channel, wrote off \"the Fire\" (\"Der Brand\") as a \"provocation\", and \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" recommended throwing his latest book, \"Places of Fire\", directly into the garbage bin.\n\nEven with these strong criticisms, Friedrich has had considerable public success. \"Der Brand\" was serialised in the German tabloid \"Bild\" and has had a serious influence on German national debate. Friedrich has claimed that this has meant that German civilians who had never previously talked about their wartime experiences have begun to tell about this phase in history, which was previously documented primarily from the point of view of influence on the war. At other times, revision of the outlook on the war has taken place, with Klaus Naumann, a former NATO General and friend of Friedrich's, saying, during a joint promotional interview with Friedrich, that he now doubted the legality and military need for Churchill's decision to attack Dresden, thereby implying that the attacks were war crimes.\n\nBoth in Germany and abroad, neo-Nazi groups have seized on the book as proving that the air war was begun by the UK. Claims that the book shows that bombings of German towns in 1940 were the first attacks on civilians of the war, based on the omission of attacks in Poland, are common. The equating of the bombing of Dresden with the Holocaust is made explicit and even inverted (?), with the actions towards Jews described as a decision of Hitler for strategic reasons whilst the needless incineration of hundreds of thousands of defenseless German civilians is reappraised as a war crime and a massacre.\n\nIt was not until 15 May 1940, two days after the Rotterdam Blitz, that the British abandoned their policy of using aerial bombing only against military targets and against infrastructure, such as ports and railways west of the Rhine, which were of direct military importance. It is also alleged that Rotterdam was bombed by mistake.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to the level of controversy it has raised, a number of reviews of the German edition of \"Der Brand\" have been written in English and published in English language journals and/or made available on the Internet. These reviews, made shortly after the publication of the book and prior to Friedrich's public statements, have tended to treat the inaccuracies and omissions in Friedrich's books as carelessness, although criticism of the language used has been almost universal.\n\nComparison of reviews made in Germany with those in the U.S. and the UK is also interesting. Some of the differences may be seen as being due to different points of view; however, specific aspects of the book (for example, the most commonly mentioned failure to provide context) are reliably mentioned in English language reviews whilst being included strongly in some German reviews and missing entirely in others.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe review on H-German network by Joerg Arnold is online.\n"}
{"id": "52687411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52687411", "title": "Karl Uhlirz", "text": "Karl Uhlirz\n\nKarl Uhlirz (13 June 1854, in Vienna – 22 March 1914, in Graz) was an Austrian historian and archivist.\n\nHe studied history at the University of Vienna, and from 1877 worked as an employee of the Monumenta Germaniae Historica (diplomatics edition) under Theodor von Sickel. From 1882 he served as a caretaker at the Vienna city archives, where in 1889 he became its director. In 1888 he obtained his habilitation for history of the Middle Ages and historical auxiliary sciences. In 1903 he succeeded Franz Krones as professor of Austrian history at the University of Graz.\nHe was the author of twenty biographies in the \"Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie\".\n"}
{"id": "929626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=929626", "title": "Louis-Pierre Anquetil", "text": "Louis-Pierre Anquetil\n\nLouis-Pierre Anquetil (21 February 1723 – 6 September 1808) was a French historian.\n\nHe was born in Paris on 21 February 1723. In 1741, he joined the religious community of the Génofévains, where he took holy orders and became professor of theology and literature. Later, he became rector of the seminary at Reims, where he published the 3-volume \"Civil and Political History of Reims\" (), in 1756 and 1757. In 1759, he was appointed prior of the abbey de la Roe in Anjou; shortly thereafter he became director of the college of Senlis. While there, he composed a history of France in the 16th and 17th centuries (\"\") published in 1767. The year before, he had obtained the curacy or priory of Chateau-Renard near Montargis. He also became a member of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres.\n\nAt the beginning of the French Revolution, he moved to the curacy of La Villette near Paris but, during the Reign of Terror, he was imprisoned at St-Lazare. While there, he began his summary of world history ('), afterwards published in nine volumes. On the establishment of the National Institute, he was elected as a 2nd-class member of the Academy of Moral and Political Science. He was also employed by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an experience which informed his treatment of the last three kings of the Ancient Regime (').\n\nHe is said to have been asked by Napoleon to write his 14-volume \"History of France\" (\"\", 1805). Augustin Thierry criticized the work as \"cold and colourless\", and mentioned that Anquetil compared unfavorably to other noted French historians. The work was compiled at second or third hand and censurable in many respects but went through numerous editions and made Anquetil famous. It was continued by Adolphe Bouillet in 6 more volumes. He died on 6 September 1808.\n\nHis younger brother Abraham was a famous orientalist.\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "6700697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6700697", "title": "Mark Peel", "text": "Mark Peel\n\nMark Andrew Peel (born 17 October 1959), historian and academic, is the Director of Educational Innovation at the University of Leicester. He also served the university as Provost (from 2015 to 2017), Pro Vice Chancellor (Student Experience) and Head of the College of Arts, Humanities and Law. Before going to Leicester, he was Professor of Modern Cultural and Social History and Head of the School of the Arts at the University of Liverpool and a Professor and Head of the School of Historical Studies in the Faculty of Arts at Monash University in Australia. He holds degrees from Flinders University (BA (Hons), 1980 and MA, 1983), Johns Hopkins University (MA, 1985) and Melbourne University (PhD, 1993) and was appointed a full Professor in 2007. He was elected as a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in Australia in 2008 and became a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2010.\n\nPeel's interest in student transition to university education led to a report in the federal government's Higher Education Series in 1999 and a research project on school-leavers' experiences of university teaching. Peel has also contributed to debates about history teaching and curriculum, especially through his paper \"The Essentials of Australian History\", which formed part of the 1999 National Inquiry into School History, through his work as an advisor on Australian history to the Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority and through two surveys on university curricula and teaching for the Australian Historical Association. In 2008, the Australian Learning and Teaching Council awarded him one of its Citations for Outstanding Contributions to Student Learning, for \"sustained contributions to the imaginative teaching of history, and to the transition, progress and welfare of students in his own and other universities\". In the same year, he was also awarded one of three Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Teaching Excellence at Monash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9102955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9102955", "title": "Martin Jay", "text": "Martin Jay\n\nMartin E. Jay (born 1944) is the Sidney Hellman Ehrman Professor of History at the University of California, Berkeley. He is an intellectual historian whose research interests have connected history with other academic and intellectual activities, such as the critical theory of the Frankfurt School, social theory, cultural criticism, and historiography.\n\nJay received his B.A. from Union College in 1965. In 1971, he completed his Ph.D. in History at Harvard under the tutelage of H. Stuart Hughes. His dissertation was later revised into the book \"The Dialectical Imagination,\" which covers the history of the Frankfurt School from 1923-1950. While he was conducting research for his dissertation, he established a correspondence and friendship with many of the members of the Frankfurt School. He was closest to Leo Löwenthal, who had provided him access to personal letters and documents for his research. Jay's work since then has explored Marxism, socialism, historiography, cultural criticism, visual culture, and the place of post-structuralism and post-modernism in European intellectual history. His current research is focused on nominalism and photography. He is a recipient of the 2010/2011 Berlin Prize Fellowship from the American Academy in Berlin.\n\nHe also has a regular column in the quarterly journal \"Salmagundi\".\n\nJay is Jewish and is the husband of literary critic Catherine Gallagher.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3744465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3744465", "title": "Marwanids", "text": "Marwanids\n\nThe Marwanids (990–1085) were a Kurdish Muslim dynasty in the Diyar Bakr region of Upper Mesopotamia (present day northern Iraq/southeastern Turkey) and Armenia, centered on the city of Amid (Diyarbakır). Other cities under their rule were Arzan, Mayyāfāriqīn (today Silvan), Hisn Kayfa (Hasankeyf), Khilāṭ, Manzikart, Arjish.\n\nAccording to most academic sources, the Marwanids were a Kurdish dynasty. Encyclopaedia of Iran consider them as an Arab dynasty in one article, and refers to them as a Kurdish dynasty in another article.\n\n\nThe founder of the dynasty was a shepherd, Abu Shujā Bādh ibn Dustak. He left his cattle, took up arms and became a valiant chief of war, obtaining celebrity. When a member of the Buyid dynasty, Adud al-Dawla, who ruled Iraq, died in 983, Badh took Mayyāfāriqīn. He also conquered Diyarbakır, as well as a variety of urban sites on the northern shores of Lake Van. \n\nDuring the rebellion of Bardas Phokas the Younger in the Byzantine Empire, Bādh took advantage of the chaotic political situation to raid the plain of Mush in Taron, an Armenian princedom annexed by the Byzantine Empire in 966.\n\nElias of Nisibis, a Syriac chronicler, mentioned shortly the life of Abu ‘Ali al-Hasan. After the death of his uncle Badh, the elder son of Marwan came back to Hisn-Kayfa, married the widow of the old warrior chief. He fought the last Hamdanids, confused them and took again all the fortresses. Elias related the tragic end of this prince who was killed in Amid (Diyarbakır) in 997 by rebellious inhabitants. His brother Abu Mansur Sa’id succeeded to him, under the name of Mumahhid al-Dawla. In 992, after Bad's death and a series of Byzantine punitive raids around Lake Van, Emperor Basil II (r. 976–1025) was able to negotiate a lasting peace with the Kurdish emirate.\n\nMumahhid, a skilful diplomat, could make use of the Byzantines' ambitions. The relations of this prince with the Emperor Basil II were quite friendly. When Basil learnt of the murder of the Georgian potentate David III of Tao, who had left by testament his kingdom to the Byzantine Empire, he stopped the campaign that he had begun in Syria for making sure of Arabian emirs' obedience and he crossed the Euphrates. He annexed David's state, received Mumahhid al-Dawla with honours and made peace with him.\n\nMumahhid al-Dawla took advantage of the peace to restore the walls of his capital Maïpherqat (Mayyafariqin), where an inscription still commemorates this event.\n\nIn 1000 when Basil II travelled from Cilicia to the lands of David III Kuropalates (Akhlat and Manzikert), Mumahhid al-Dawla came to offer his submission to the emperor and in return he received the high rank of \"magistros\" and \"doux\" of the East.\n\nIn 1010, Mumahhid al-Dawla was assassinated by his \"ghulam\", Sharwin ibn Muhammad, who assumed rulership. He legitimized his rule with the ancient 'law of the Turks', that who kills the ruler becomes himself the successor. However this archaic rule and Sharwin's rule were soon contested, and Sharwin was overthrown. Coins are known from his brief reign.\n\nHe was the third son of Marwan to ascend the throne. A clever politician, he skilfully navigated between the surrounding great powers: the Buyid emir Sultan al-Dawla, the Fatimid caliph of Egypt al-Hakim and Basil II. Elias of Nisibis has written that Nasr al-Dawla Ahmad ibn Marwan, \"the victorious emir\", subdued \"Ibn Dimne\", his vassal in Diyarbakır, in 1011. He signed with the Byzantine Empire a pact of mutual non-aggression, but violated it once or twice. The renown of this Kurdish Muslim prince grew so much that the inhabitants of al-Ruha, (Edessa, present-day Sanli Urfa), at the west, called him for being released of an Arab chief. Nasr al-Dawla took the city of Edessa in 1026, and added it to his possessions. This event has been reported by the famous western-Syriac author Bar Hebraeus (1226–1286). So Nasr al-Dawla annexed Edessa, but the city was retaken by the Byzantine general George Maniakes in 1031. In 1032 he sent an army of 5000 horsemen, under the command of his general Bal, to re-take the town from Arab tribes supported by Byzantium. The Kurdish commander Bal took the city and killed the Arab tribal chief, then he wrote to his lord asking for reinforcements \"if you want to save your Lordship on Kertastan (Kurdistan)\".\nThe long rule of Nasr al-Dawla represented the apogee of Marwanid power. He built a new citadel on a hill of Mayyafariqin where stood the Church of Virgin, as well as built bridges and public baths. He restored the observatory. Some libraries fit out the mosques of Mayyafarikin and Amid. He invited well-known scholars, historians and poets to his royal court, among them Ibn al-Athir, Abd Allah al-Kazaruni (poet), and al-Tihami. He sheltered political refugees such as the future Abbassid caliph al-Muqtadi (1075–1099). In 1054 he had to acknowledge as his own liege Toghrul Beg the Seljuq, who ruled on the largest part of the Jazira, but he kept his territories. This fine period of peace and good feelings between Kurds and Syriacs was rich in creations in the field of cultural life. It was dense for trade, active for arts and crafts, impressive in short. Nasr al-Dawla left in Diyarbakır monumental inscriptions that show still now the artistic brightness of its reign.\nAfter Nasr al-Dawla's death, the Marwanids' power declined. His second son, Nizam, succeeded him and ruled until 1079, then followed his son Nasir al-Dawla Mansur. The end of the Marwanid dynasty came about by treason. Ibn Jahir, a former vizier, left the Diyar Bakr and went to Baghdad. There, he convinced the Seljuq sultan Malik Shah I (1072–1092), a grand-nephew of Toghrul Beg, and the famous vizier Nizam al-Mulk, to allow him to assault Mayyafarikin. When the city was taken, Ibn Jahir took off the great treasures that belonged to the Marwanids and detained them greedily for himself. Henceforth, the Diyar Bakr fell almost entirely under the direct rule of the Seljuqs. The last emir, Nasir al-Dawla Mansur, kept only the city of Jazirat Ibn ‘Umar (present-day Cizre in south-eastern Turkey).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29142520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29142520", "title": "National Association of the Motion Picture Industry", "text": "National Association of the Motion Picture Industry\n\nThe National Association of the Motion Picture Industry (NAMPI) was a regulatory body created by the Hollywood studios in 1916 to answer demands of censorship. The system consisted of a series of \"Thirteen Points\", a list of subjects and storylines they promised to avoid. The organization tried to prevent New York from becoming the first state with its own censorship board in 1921, but failed. NAMPI was ineffective and was replaced when the studio hired Will H. Hays to oversee censorship in 1922.\n\n"}
{"id": "21923106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21923106", "title": "Odd Langholm", "text": "Odd Langholm\n\nOdd Langholm (born 8 November 1928) is a Norwegian economist and historian of economic thought. He spent his entire academic career at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration, being a professor from 1966 to 1998.\n\nHe was born in Haugesund as a son of Karl Johan Langholm (1891–1974) and Anna Stampen (1894–1976), who were both teachers. He was the younger brother of historian Sivert Langholm. In 1956 he married Grethe Togstad. They settled in Bergen.\n\nLangholm took the examen artium in 1947 and the business school exam in 1949. He then moved from Haugesund to Bergen, to study at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration. He graduated with the siv.øk. degree in 1954. For the next years he worked as a lecturer there, and took the dr.oecon. degree at the same institution in 1964, on the thesis \"Tidshorisonten for deterministiske planleggingsmodeller i normativ bedriftsøkonomikk\". He was the first person to take both the siv.øk. degree and the doctorate at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration. He was promoted to professor in 1966.\n\nAfter 1969 his focus shifted from business administration towards the study of mediaeval economic thought. Between 1979 and 1998 he published five works in this field, many derived from sources in Latin, a language in which he was skilled. These works were \"Price and Value in the Aristotelian Tradition. A Study in Scholastic Economic Sources\" (1979), \"Wealth and Money in the Aristotelian Tradition\" (1983), \"The Aristotelian Analyses of Usury\" (1984), \"Economics in the Medieval Schools. Wealth, Exchange, Value, Money and Usury according to the Paris Theological Tradition, 1200–1350\" (1992) and \"The Legacy of Scholasticism in Economic Thought. Antecedents of Choice and Power\" (1998). This body of work has given him international recognition.\n\nLangholm received an honorary degree at the Åbo Akademi University in 1992. For his sixtieth birthday, a Festschrift was issued. He retired from his professorship in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "22413283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22413283", "title": "Otto Stobbe", "text": "Otto Stobbe\n\nJohann Ernst Otto Stobbe (June 28, 1831 – May 19, 1887) was a German historian and law professor born in Königsberg.\n\nHe studied history, philology and jurisprudence at the University of Königsberg, earning his law degree in 1853. He continued his education in Leipsic and Göttingen, and in 1856 received his habilitation. Soon afterwards he became a professor of German law at Königsberg, later holding similar positions at the Universities of Breslau (from 1859) and Leipzig (from 1872).\n\nStobbe was the author of several works in the fields of German law and legal history. In addition he is remembered for a scholarly work on Jews in Germany during the Middle Ages called \"Die Juden in Deutschland während des Mittelalters\" (1866). The following are a few of his better known publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "13994946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13994946", "title": "Pierre Matthieu", "text": "Pierre Matthieu\n\nPierre Matthieu (1563–1621) was a French writer, poet, historian and dramatist.\n\nPierre Matthieu was born at Pesmes in the Haute-Saône. He studied under the Jesuits and mastered Latin, Ancient Greek and Hebrew. At the age of 19, he served his father as adjunct at the Collège of Vercel (in the Doubs) and it was there that his tragedy \"Esther\" (published in Lyon in 1585) was performed by the students. He studied law at Valence, received his doctorat in 1586 and became a lawyer at the Présidial Court of Lyon.\n\nAlthough he had expressed his attachment to the House of Guise and the Catholic League, he was among those chosen and sent by the inhabitants of Lyon to King Henry IV of France in February 1594 to assure the new king of their fidelity. With the king having visited the city the year before, Matthieu was put in charge of organizing the ceremonies of the royal reception. Subsequently, he moved to Paris and, with the protection of Pierre Jeannin, he became historiograph. He was esteemed by the royal court and enjoyed special access to Henry IV.\n\nHe fell ill accompanying Louis XIII at the siege of Montauban and died in Toulouse at the age of 58.\n\nPierre Matthieu wrote five tragedies:\n\nThe five tragedies of Matthieu sought — despite their use of Biblical or ancient stories (other than \"La Guisade\") — to explore contemporary issues of the French Wars of Religion and to justify the noble defense of religion; the tragedies' heroes were generally allegorical representations of Henry I, Duke of Guise.\n\nAs poet, he published \"Tablettes de la vie et de la mort\" and \"Quatrains de la vie et de la mort\".\n\nHis novels, \"La Magicienne\", \"Aelius Sejanus\" and \"La Femme Cathenoise\" were hostile to Concini and his wife.\n\nHe also wrote several works of history and royal historiography.\n\n"}
{"id": "5074201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074201", "title": "Podgorica Assembly", "text": "Podgorica Assembly\n\nThe Great National Assembly of the Serb People in Montenegro (), commonly known as the Podgorica Assembly (Подгоричка скупштина/Podgorička skupština), was an ad hoc assembly convened in November 1918, after World War I in the Kingdom of Montenegro by the Serbian authorities, with the goal of formalising the unification, i.e. annexation of Montenegro by Serbia, and dethrone the Montenegrin Petrović-Njegoš dynasty, in favour of the Serbian House of Karađorđević. It was organized by a committee appointed by the Serbian government. The two opposing sides were known as the \"Greens\" and the \"Whites\", in favour of a confederation (independence) and unification (annexation), respectively. The assembly concluded the decision to merge Montenegro with Serbia. The creation of Yugoslavia followed.\n\nThe Montenegrin government capitulated to the forces of Austria-Hungary on 6 January 1916 during The Great War. King Nicholas I refused to sign capitulation and left the country to allied Italy where his daughter was married to the king. On 17 July 1917 the Yugoslav Committee and the Government of the Kingdom of Serbia signed the Corfu Declaration, which, accepted by the Great Allied Powers, laid the foundations for a South Slavic state. In 1918 the Serbian Royal Army took control of Montenegro from the Central Powers' occupation; Allied mission of Serbia, Italy, France, the United Kingdom and the United States were assigned to provisionally occupy and establish control over Montenegro.\n\nMontenegro was planning and preparing unification with Serbia for more than 50 years with the wish of Nikola I to become a ruler of the united state. This project had failed in 1903, after which the population became divided in political blocks, for a united state (Serbia) or for confederation (Serbia and Montenegro). The last negotiations between Montenegro and Serbia started shortly before World War I in 1914 about military, economic and foreign affairs. The most important disagreement point during the last negotiations was the position of Montenegro in the union: as an equal partner to Serbia or as a province of Serbia. In Montenegro the strongest supporter of unconditional union was later prime minister Andrija Radović, titled by the Serbian government which had been working on annexation of Montenegro from 1866. Since the beginning of October 1918, various initiatives were raised to formalize unification with the war drawing to a close. Even Nicholas I gave support to new united Yugoslav confederation but this position was still against Belgrade's wish of united state. Various tiny assemblies in territory controlled by the Serbian army were organized similar to the ones in the former Austro-Hungarian lands.\n\nOn 15 October 1918 the Serbian government named a \"Central Executive Committee for Unification of Serbia and Montenegro\" consisting of four strong proponents of a union of the two states, two from Serbia and two from Montenegro, that would organize the process of unification. With this decision the Kingdom of Serbia abolished the legal Montenegro parliament, just like Austro-Hungary did earlier, with the explanation: \"Because 2/5 of parliament members are abroad it is necessary to elect new\". This unconstitutional decision supported by Serbian military in Montenegro was against an order of the king of Montenegro, for gathering of parliament on first day after armistice was signed.\n\nOn 25 October 1918 in Berane, the city of one of the committee's members, the committee decided to schedule a nationwide election with new election laws created by the Central Executive Committee for Unification of Serbia and Montenegro. 165 members were elected to form a parliament called the \"Great People's Assembly of the Serbian People in Montenegro\" to decide about the form and process of unification of Montenegro with Serbia, as well as the rules of its election.\n\nThe people chose electors by secret ballot, who would subsequently nominate the assembly.\n\nThe electors were the democratic holders of the national vote from the people, but they were supposed to elect the Members of the Parliament themselves in order to secure the balance and equally represent all levels of the community by profession, religious determination and ethnic affiliation.\n\nEvery male Montenegrin aged 25 or more had the right to be elected into the Parliament:\nDuring the Paris Peace Conference, Nicholas I's representative and future prime minister of Montenegro (de jure) General Gvozdenović attacked this election law: \"Mere villages had been permitted to elect four deputies, while entire\ndistricts had only sent one or two representatives\". Other problems with the election were that voting was made without the voters' lists, and that the Serbian army didn't allow the opponents of union to enter Montenegro before elections ended \n\nTwo organized lists were opposed:\n\nThe Whites were opponents of the reigning King Nicholas I, presenting him as an enemy to democracy, the people and betrayer of his dynasty's original foundations. They were led by Metropolitan bishop Gavrilo Dožić of Peć (later to become the Metropolitan of the Metropolitanate of Montenegro and the Littoral in 1920), and stood for direct, immediate and unconditional unification with the Kingdom of Serbia. The Greens were pro-dynastic supporters of King Nicholas I and supported a conditional and loose unification of Montenegro with Serbia.\n\nAfter quick but major preparations, the elections were held on 19 November 1918. The Whites won at all locations except Montenegrin capital Cetinje, but in Bijelo Polje, Plav and Gusinje instead of elections the electors were appointed by the local community, and due to the subsequent rapidly changing following acts elections were never properly repeated.\n\nThe result of the elections had become clear to international community before it was proclaimed. In a last push to protect an independent Montenegro, the Kingdom of Italy, whose king was married to a daughter of Montenegrin king Nicholas, tried to take Cetinje and proclaim restored Montenegrin state. The attack started from the Bay of Kotor, but the Italian forces withdrew after the possibility of war with Kingdom of Serbia and due to pressure of the other Allied Powers.\n\nThe electors then publicly nominated a session of the parliament with 165 MPs. 56 MPs had a PhD, 6 were teachers and priests, 25 were Clan Chieftains, 14 were agricultural workers and 3 youth. The several Green electors refused to show up and boycotted the assembly.\n\nThe Great National Assembly was constituted on 24 November 1918 not in the Montenegro parliament which was in Cetinje, but in the Podgorica Tobacco Monopoly building. During that time Podgorica was the largest and most populated city in Montenegro. In two following sessions of 25 November 1918, the parliament elected its president, two vice-presidents and the Secretary. The assembly members demanded that Montenegro's independence be restored prior to any discussion about union with Serbia. This was refused by president of the assembly Savo Cerović: \"This will not lead to anything good\". On 26 November 1918 when the assembly building was encircled by a detachment of the Serbian army, the parliament unanimously adopted a resolution with the following decisions:\n\nAt the time, because of the threat of foreign claim of the liberated lands, detachments of Serbian army (with many volunteers from other nations of future Yugoslavia who helped liberate territories under Austria-Hungary, Italy and Nicholas I) were dispatched throughout the newly liberated territory (which was unrecognised as part of any state until Treaty of Versailles 1920. Because this territory did not belong to any recognised state, the threat of entry of foreign forces was annihilated until the unification was complete by the presence of the only recognised, organised army among South Slavs of Yugoslavia, Serbian army (with many Montenegrin Serb, Croat and Slovene volunteers).\n\nThe MPs called upon the long lasting desire to unite the Serb people from Montenegro with the one in Serbia, and sent a copy of the Montenegrin Crown to King Petar I Karađorđević with a delegation that went to Belgrade led by Metropolitan Dožić on 17 December 1918. In his 24 December speech for The Associated Press King Nicholas I repeated the Montenegrin wish to become part of a \"Yugoslav confederation, but preserve its autonomy, independence and customs\" \n\nThe parliament continued its session until 29 November 1918, when the \"Central Montenegrin Committee for Unification\" of five members was appointed and sworn to duty.\n\nAfter the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was proclaimed, the historic entities including Montenegro remained, parallel to Serbia. The Great Serb People's Assembly convened for the last time on 27 December 1919 when it elected the Montenegrin delegation to the Collective National Representing Body of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes that was to draft a Constitution.\n\nThe deposed King and his internationally recognized Government of the Kingdom of Montenegro in Exile in Neilly was informed of this by French intelligence. Nicholas discarded the decisions of the assembly, claiming it was illegal, calling upon the Constitution of Montenegro, and called forth the Montenegrins not to accept the annexation. Prime Minister Evgenije Popović wrote to the Great Powers in complaint.\n\nThe Greens, led by Krsto Zrnov Popović, supported by the Italians, changed their desire to include a completely independent Montenegrin state and resorted to rebellion. With slogan \"For justice, honour and the freedom of Montenegro\", they raised on Christmas Eve of 7 January 1919 the Christmas Uprising, with an attempt to restore independent Montenegro. The international community opposed uprising and the Serbian forces quelled the rebellion in blood, raising the rebel sieges of completely cut-off Cetinje and Nikšić. The insurgents mostly found amnesty, but some form of little guerrilla resistance from continued until 1926.\n\nDuring the Paris Peace Conference, a representative of Montenegro king was called to give a speech in which he protested annexation, but for the Treaty of Versailles, only the representative of Yugoslav Montenegro was called. At these two conferences, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was internationally recognized, but the Montenegrin question itself was left to be later resolved because of a bloody conflict escalating in Montenegro.\n\nThe independence of Montenegro was recognized by the Great Powers until 1922 after which all states accepted the Yugoslav claim on this state. During the 1918–22 period, annexation was supported by France, independence by Italy, and Great Britain took their middle road with suppression report about method practised by Serbia and French generals (in Montenegro) Franchet d'Esperey and Venal in Montenegro.\n\nThe state of Montenegro regained its independence in 2006 and the event was interpreted as a break of the assembly, initiating a controversy over its decisions. The minor ruling Social Democratic Party of Montenegro wanted to formally cancel the decisions of the Podgorica Assembly by the Parliament of Montenegro after the adoption of the new Constitution in late 2007. This was met with another controversy, as whether the decisions of the Podgorica Assembly were legal, as they were accepted as state decisions thus far, including opposition from the Liberal Party of Montenegro of the act, which upholds that abolishing a decision would automatically legitimize itself. The long-term Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic of the dominant Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro noted on the day of celebration of the victory in the independence referendum the people had abolished its decisions from 1918.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39999375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39999375", "title": "Pseudo-Dorotheos of Monemvasia", "text": "Pseudo-Dorotheos of Monemvasia\n\nPseudo-Dorotheos of Monemvasia () is the name given to the unknown author (or compiler) of a Greek-language chronicle titled \"Historical Book\" (Βιβλίον Ιστορικόν), published at Venice in 1631. The work contains a history of the world from Creation until the early 17th century, and purports to have been written by a non-existent metropolitan of Monemvasia named Dorotheos. The book became a popular source of historical knowledge during the period of Ottoman rule in Greece.\n"}
{"id": "38343552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38343552", "title": "Riwaq (organization)", "text": "Riwaq (organization)\n\nRiqaq is a center for the preservation of architectural heritage on the West Bank of Palestine. The organization settles in Ramallah and owes its name mainly to a \"riwaq\", which is an arcade in Islamic architecture.\n\nRiwaq was founded in 1991 with the subjective to preserve cultural heritage. Researchers of the center have compiled a detailed register of historic buildings in Palestine. Buildings at this location are frequently threatened by military occupation and counter actions of inhabitants. In the course of twenty years since its foundation Riwaq had completed more than one hundred restoration projects, including major monuments in the old inner part of Jerusalem and the renovation of historic streets in the inner part of Bethlehem.\n\nRiwaq was awarded several times:\n"}
{"id": "1355728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1355728", "title": "Robert Lindsay of Pitscottie", "text": "Robert Lindsay of Pitscottie\n\nRobert Lindsay of Pitscottie (also Lindesay or Lyndsay; c. 1532–1580) was a Scottish chronicler, author of \"The Historie and Chronicles of Scotland, 1436–1565\", the first history of Scotland to be composed in Scots rather than Latin.\n\nOf the family of the Lindsays of the Byres, a grandson of Patrick Lindsay, 4th Lord Lindsay, Robert was born at Pitscottie, in the parish of Ceres, Fife, which he held in lease at a later period. His \"Historie\", the only work by which he is remembered, is described as a continuation of that of Hector Boece, translated by John Bellenden. Although it sometimes degenerates into a mere chronicle of short entries, it is not without passages of great picturesqueness. Sir Walter Scott made use of it in his narrative poem \"Marmion\"; and, in spite of its inaccuracy in details, it is useful for the social history of the period. Lindesay's share in the \"Historie\" was generally supposed to end with 1565; but Dr Aeneas Mackay considers that the frank account of the events connected with Mary, Queen of Scots, between 1565 and 1575 contained in one of the manuscripts is by his hand and was only suppressed because it was too faithful in its record of contemporary affairs. The \"Historie\" was first published in 1728. A complete edition of the text, based on the Laing MS. No. 218 in the university of Edinburgh, was published by the Scottish Text Society in 1899 under the editorship of Aeneas Mackay. The manuscript, formerly in the possession of John Scott of Halkshill, is fuller, and, though in a later hand, is, on the whole, a better representative of Lindsay's text.\n\nAccording to the \"Biographical Dictionary of Eminent Scotsmen\":\n\nEditions of the \"History of Scotland\", the 1899 edition by Aeneas Mackay for the Scottish Text Society is usually cited by historians:\n\n"}
{"id": "45448371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45448371", "title": "Ruben Gasparyan", "text": "Ruben Gasparyan\n\nRuben Henrik Gasparyan (June 25, 1962 – July 10, 2013) was an expert in Armenian history, a university professor and researcher at the Department of Modern History of the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences of Armenia.\n\nGasparyan was born in Yerevan, and graduated in 1984 from Yerevan State Pedagogical University, with a major in History and Pedagogy at the Department of History and Geography Studies. From 1984 to 1989, he worked as a history teacher in the Akunq village school in the province of Abovyan (later renamed Kotayk), while commencing extramural postgraduate studies at the National Academy of Sciences. His thesis “The socio-political life of the Armenians of Cilicia in 1900-1921s” was supervised by Dr. Haykaz Poghosyan. From 1989 to 1996 he taught history and social sciences at No. 57 secondary school, while beginning research on the Cilician Armenians .\n\nDuring the Young Researchers’ 20th session at the NAS RA Institute of History in 1986, Ruben Gasparyan delivered a speech on Adana’s bloody massacres of innocent civilians. The researcher impressed his audience with his remarkable research skills and the advanced methods he had applied to his research work. The period between 1988 and 1991 was a restless time. The Artsakh liberation movement began in February 1988. It was another wake-up call for the Armenian people. Gasparyan didn’t stay aloof and, like most of the people, actively participated in mass demonstrations and rallies in support of Artsakh, helping to obtain essential supplies, including books, for the people of Artsakh.\n\nIn 1991, Gasparyan defended his thesis and was awarded candidacy for a PhD in History. Shortly afterwards, he took a job as a researcher at the Department of New History of the NAS RA Institute of History. Gasparyan was thereupon elected Chair of the Young Researchers’ Council and continued in this role until 1997. Along with this job, he held the position of Scientific Secretary for four years’ time (1995-1999). \nFrom 1999 to 2009, he was in charge of the Department of Higher Education and the Department of Higher and Postgraduate Education at the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Armenia, and ran classes for master's program students at Yerevan State University. In 2009, he returned to the National Academy of Sciences. From 1 July 2010 to June 2011, he was Head of the Department of the Armenian Question and the History of the Armenian Genocide. In June 2011, Gasparyan moved back to the Department of Modern History where he remained until the end of his life. Ruben Gasparyan would have brought the work on his doctoral thesis to a close but for the serious illness which hindered him from fulfilling it. The NAS RA Institute of History intends to develop Gasparyan’s research work for its final release and have it published in 2015.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Armenian l teachers, without any new history textbooks in their possession, would make use of the articles widely published in those days. Ruben Gasparyan was one of the authors whose articles appeared continually in a few periodicals, including “Mayreni” (Native) and “Azatamart” (Fight for Freedom).\nIn 1993, before the new textbooks would be ready for publication, the Ministry of Education decided to bring out a manual for the 9th grade schoolchildren. The aim was to elucidate, truthfully and anew, a number of key issues and pivotal moments of the 1900-1939s, which turned out to be a very complicated period of history. The revelation of the truth would contribute immensely to the writing of the new textbook, thereby enriching both the teachers’ and schoolchildren’s knowledge.\nA group of the NAS RA Institute of History collaborators, under the leadership of Hrant Avetisyan, an associate member of the Academy of Sciences, designed a manual for the 9th grade schoolchildren. Ruben Gasparyan wrote one whole chapter which was titled “Western Armenia at the beginning of the 20th century” and outlined the country's economic development, national liberation movements in 1900-1908s, the Armenian Question in 1912-1914s and many other issues.\n\nAs soon as the manual was published, the NAS RA Institute of History editors were asked to write more history school-books for fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth grades. The academician Vladimir Barkhudaryan assembled a team of first-class writers from all over the country. Ruben Gasparyan and Ruben Sahakyan were assigned to provide the methodological part, i.e. questions, assignments and chapter summaries. Gasparyan also authored Chapter 9 (“The massacres of the Western Armenians and the self-defense battles in 1890s”) of the eighth-grade history school-book which was reprinted in 2013.\n\nIn 2003, Gasparyan wrote Paragraphs 8 to 15 (pages 35–63) for the eighth-grade textbook “The History of the Armenian Church,” which was edited by P. Hovhannisyan and Bishop Abraham Mkrtchyan. Gasparyan’s monograph “The Armenians of Cilicia at the beginning of the 20th century” was published in 1999.\n\nAs a history professor at Yerevan State University, Gasparyan developed a separate history course entitled “The History of the Voluntary Movements (19th century – 1921).” Gasparyan was convinced that it was highly essential to introduce the subject into the master program curriculum and gave the following explanation in justification of his resolution: “The voluntary movements, which arose at the beginning of the 19th century and ran on up to 1921, played a vital role in the Armenian history. This topic does require further elucidation. The history of the voluntary movements is closely linked with the national liberation struggle for the restoration of independent statehood.”\n\nIn the last few years of his life, Gasparyan would work with Ruben Sahakyan, his co-author. They first developed Hovhannes Ter-Martirosyan’s (also known as A-Do) unpublished pieces for the final release and then worked on the unpublished memoirs of Yeghishe Buranyan from Van. Sadly, both pieces came out after Gasparyan's death. Gasparyan and his co-author had also begun work on the unpublished memoirs of Michael Ter-Martirosyan, A-Do’s younger brother, who was a national liberation movement activist. Michael (nicknamed Mar) was a member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnak Party) and a participant of the occupation of the Ottoman Bank in Constantinople in 1896\n\nGoogle Translation of the website \"The Armenian Genocide and the Department of History\" \n"}
{"id": "1062850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1062850", "title": "School of Salamanca", "text": "School of Salamanca\n\nThe School of Salamanca () is the Renaissance of thought in diverse intellectual areas by Spanish and Portuguese theologians, rooted in the intellectual and pedagogical work of Francisco de Vitoria. From the beginning of the 16th century the traditional Catholic conception of man and of his relation to God and to the world had been assaulted by the rise of humanism, by the Protestant Reformation and by the new geographical discoveries and their consequences. These new problems were addressed by the School of Salamanca. The name refers to the University of Salamanca, where de Vitoria and others of the school were based.\n\nThe leading figures of the school, theologians and jurists Francisco de Vitoria, Domingo de Soto, Martín de Azpilcueta (or Azpilicueta), Tomás de Mercado, and Francisco Suárez, were all scholars of natural law and of morality, who undertook the reconciliation of the teachings of Thomas Aquinas with the new political-economic order. The themes of study centered on man and his practical problems (morality, economics, jurisprudence, etc.), but almost equally on a particular body of work accepted by all of them, as the ground against which to test their disagreements, including at times bitter polemics within the School.\n\nThe School of Salamanca in the broad sense may be considered more narrowly as two schools of thought coming in succession, that of the Salmanticenses and that of the Conimbricenses from the University of Coimbra. The first began with Francisco de Vitoria (1483–1546), and reached its high point with Domingo de Soto (1494–1560). The Conimbricenses were Jesuits who, from the end of 16th century took over the intellectual leadership of the Catholic world from the Dominicans. Among those Jesuits were Luis de Molina (1535–1600), the aforementioned Francisco Suárez (1548–1617), and Giovanni Botero (1544–1617), who would continue the tradition in Italy.\n\nThe juridical doctrine of the School of Salamanca represented the end of medieval concepts of law, with a revindication of liberty not habitual in Europe of that time. The natural rights of man came to be, in one form or another, the center of attention, including rights as a corporeal being (right to life, economic rights such as the right to own property) and spiritual rights (the right to freedom of thought and to human dignity).\n\nThe School of Salamanca reformulated the concept of natural law: law originating in nature itself, with all that exists in the natural order sharing in this law. Their conclusion was, given that all humans share the same nature, they also share the same rights to life and liberty. Such views constituted a novelty in European thought and went counter to those then predominant in Spain and Europe that people indigenous to the Americas had no such rights.\n\nThe School of Valencia distinguished two realms of power, the natural or civil realm and the realm of the supernatural, which were often conflated in the Middle Ages through granting royal control of investiture of bishops, or the temporal powers of the pope. One direct consequence of the separation of realms of power is that the king or emperor does not legitimately have jurisdiction over souls, nor does the pope have legitimate temporal power. This included the proposal that there are limits on the legitimate powers of government. Thus, according to Luis de Molina a nation is analogous to a mercantile society (the antecedent of a modern corporation) in that those who govern are holders of power (effectively sovereigns) but a collective power, to which they are subject, derives from them jointly. Nonetheless, in de Molina's view, the power of society over the individual is greater than that of a mercantile society over its members, because the power of the government of a nation emanates from God's divine power (as against merely from the power of individuals sovereign over themselves in their business dealings).\n\nAt this time, the monarchy of England was extending the theory of the divine right of kings—under which the monarch is the unique legitimate recipient of the emanation of God's power—asserting that subjects must follow the monarch's orders, in order not to contravene said design. Counter to this, several adherents of the School sustained that the \"people\" are the vehicle of divine sovereignty, which they, in turn, pass to a prince under various conditions. Possibly the one who went furthest in this direction was Francisco Suárez, whose work \"Defensio Fidei Catholicae adversus Anglicanae sectae errores\" (\"The Defense of the Catholic Faith against the errors of the Anglican sect\" 1613) was the strongest defense in this period of popular sovereignty. Men are born free by their nature and not as slaves of another man, and can disobey even to the point of deposing an unjust government. As with de Molina, he affirms that political power does not reside in any one concrete person, but he differs subtly in that he considers that the recipient of that power is the people as a whole, not a collection of sovereign individuals—in the same way, Jean-Jacques Rousseau's theory of popular sovereignty would consider the people as a collective group superior to the sum that composes it.\n\nGabriel Vázquez (1549–1604) held that natural law is not limited to the individual, but obliges societies to act in accord and be treated with justice.\n\nFor Suárez, the political power of society is contractual in origin because the community forms by consensus of free wills. The consequence of this contractualist theory is that the natural form of government is either a democracy or a republic, while oligarchy or monarchy arise as secondary institutions, whose claim to justice is based on being forms chosen (or at least consented to) by the people.\n\nFrancisco de Vitoria played an important role in the early modern comprehension of \"ius gentium\" (the rights of nations). He extrapolated his ideas of legitimate sovereign power to society at the international level, concluding that this scope as well ought to be ruled by just forms respecting the rights of all. The common good of the world is of a category superior to the good of each state. This meant that relations between states ought to pass from being justified by force to being justified by law and justice.\n\nFrancisco Suárez subdivided the concept of \"ius gentium\". Working with already well-formed categories, he carefully distinguished \"ius inter gentes\" from \"ius intra gentes\". Ius inter gentes (which corresponds to modern international law) was something common to the majority of countries, although being positive law, not natural law, was not necessarily universal. On the other hand, \"ius intra gentes\", or civil law, is specific to each nation.\n\nSome scholars have disputed the standard account of the origins of modern International law which emphasises the seminal text \"De iure belli ac pacis\" by Grotius. They have argued for the importance of Vitoria and Suárez as the forerunners and founders of the field. Others, such as Koskenniemi, have argued that none of these humanist and scholastic thinkers can be understood to have founded international law in the modern sense, instead placing its origins in the post-1870 period.\n\nGiven that war is one of the worst evils suffered by mankind, the adherents of the School reasoned that it ought to be resorted to only when it was necessary in order to prevent an even \"greater\" evil. A diplomatic agreement is preferable, even for the more powerful party, before a war is started. Examples of \"just war\" are:\n\nA war is not legitimate or illegitimate simply based on its original motivation: it must comply with a series of additional requirements:\n\nUnder this doctrine, expansionist wars, wars of pillage, wars to convert infidels or pagans, and wars for glory are all inherently unjust.\n\nIn this period, in which European colonialism began, Spain was the only western European nation in which a group of intellectuals questioned the legitimacy of conquest rather than simply trying to justify it by traditional means.\n\nFrancisco de Vitoria began his analysis of conquest by rejecting \"illegitimate titles\". He was the first to dare to question whether the bulls of Alexander VI known collectively as the \"Bulls of Donation\" were a valid title of dominion over the newly discovered territories. In this matter he did not accept the universal primacy of the emperor, the authority of the pope (because the pope, according to him, lacked temporal power), nor the claim of voluntary submission or conversion of the Native Americans. One could not consider them sinners or lacking in intelligence: they were free people by nature, with legitimate property rights. When the Spanish arrived in America they brought no legitimate title to occupy those lands and become their master.\n\nVitoria also analyzed whether there were legitimate claims of title over discovered lands. He elaborated up to eight legitimate titles of dominion. The first and perhaps most fundamental relates to communication between people, who jointly constitute a universal society. \"Ius peregrinandi et degendi\" is the right of every human being to travel and do commerce in all parts of the earth, independently of who governs or what is the religion of the territory. For him, if the \"Indians\" of the Americas would not permit free transit, the aggrieved parties had the right to defend themselves and to remain in land obtained in such a war of self-defense.\n\nThe second form of legitimate title over discovered lands also referred back to a human right whose obstruction is a cause for a just war. The Indians could voluntarily refuse conversion, but could not impede the right of the Spanish to preach, in which case the matter would be analogous to the first case. Nonetheless, Vitoria noted that although this can be grounds for a just war, it is not necessarily appropriate to make such a war, because of the resulting death and destruction.\n\nThe other cases of this casuistry are:\n\nThis doctrine of \"legitimate\" and \"illegitimate\" titles was not agreeable to Emperor Charles V, then ruler of Spain, in that they meant that Spain had no special right; he tried without success to stop these theologians from expressing their opinions in these matters.\n\nMuch attention has been drawn to the economic thought of the School of Salamanca by Joseph Schumpeter's \"History of Economic Analysis\" (1954). It did not coin, but certainly consolidated, the use of the term School of Salamanca in economics. Schumpeter studied scholastic doctrine in general and Spanish scholastic doctrine in particular, and praised the high level of economic science in Spain in the 16th century. He argued that the School of Salamanca most deserve to be considered the founders of economics as a science. The School did not elaborate a complete doctrine of economics, but they established the first modern economic theories to address the new economic problems that had arisen with the end of the medieval order. Unfortunately, there was no continuation of their work until the end of the 17th century and many of their contributions were forgotten, only to be rediscovered later by others.\n\nThe English historian of economic thought Marjorie Grice-Hutchinson has published numerous articles and monographs on the School of Salamanca.\n\nAlthough there does not appear to be any direct influence, the economic thought of the School of Salamanca is in many ways similar to that of the Austrian School. Murray Rothbard referred to them as \"proto-Austrians\".\n\nIn 1517, de Vitoria, then at the Sorbonne, was consulted by Spanish merchants based in Antwerp about the moral legitimacy of engaging in commerce to increase one's personal wealth. From today's point of view, one would say they were asking for a consultation about the entrepreneurial spirit. Beginning at that time, Vitoria and other theologians looked at economic matters. They moved away from views that they found to be obsolete, adopting instead new ideas based on principles of natural law.\n\nAccording to these views, the natural order is based in the \"freedom of circulation\" of people, goods, and ideas, allowing people to know one another and increase their sentiments of brotherhood. This implies that merchantry is not merely not reprehensible, but that it actually serves the general good.\n\nThe adherents of the School of Valencia all agreed that property has the beneficial effect of stimulating economic activity, which, in turn, contributed to the general well being. Diego de Covarubias y Leyva (1512–1577) considered that people had not only the right to own property but—again, a specifically modern idea—they had the exclusive right to the benefit from that property, although the community might also benefit. Nonetheless, in times of great necessity, there all goods become a commons.\n\nLuis de Molina argued that individual owners take better care of their goods than is taken of common property, a form of the tragedy of the commons.\n\nThe most complete and methodical developments of a Salamancan theory of value were by Martín de Azpilcueta (1493–1586) and Luis de Molina. Interested in the effect of precious metals arriving from the Americas, de Azpilcueta proved that in the countries where precious metals were scarce, prices for them were higher than in those where they were abundant. Precious metals, like any other mercantile good, gained at least some of their value from their scarcity. This scarcity theory of value was a precursor of the quantitative theory of money put forward slightly later by Jean Bodin (1530–1596).\n\nUp until that time, the predominant theory of value had been the medieval theory based on the cost of production as the sole determinant of a just price (a variant of the cost-of-production theory of value, most recently manifested in the labor theory of value). Diego de Covarrubias and Luis de Molina developed a subjective theory of value and prices, which asserted that the usefulness of a good varied from person to person, so just prices would arise from mutual decisions in free commerce, barring the distorting effects of monopoly, fraud, or government intervention. Expressing this in today's terms, the adherents of the School defended the free market, where the fair price of a good would be determined by supply and demand.\n\nOn this Luis Saravia de la Calle wrote in 1544:\n\nThose who measure the just price by the labour, costs, and risk incurred by the person who deals in the merchandise or produces it, or by the cost of transport or the expense of traveling...or by what he has to pay the factors for their industry, risk, and labour, are greatly in error... For the just price arises from the abundance or scarcity of goods, merchants, and money...and not from costs, labour, and risk... Why should a bale of linen brought overland from Brittany at great expense be worth more than one which is transported cheaply by sea?... Why should a book written out by hand be worth more than one which is printed, when the latter is better though it costs less to produce?... The just price is found not by counting the cost but by the common estimation.\n\nHowever the school rarely followed this idea through systematically, and, as Friedrich Hayek has written, \"never to the point of realizing that what was relevant was not merely man's relation to a particular thing or a class of things but the position of the thing in the whole...scheme by which men decide how to allocate the resources at their disposal among their different endeavors.\"\n\nUsury (which in that period meant \"any\" charging of interest on a loan) has always been viewed negatively by the Catholic Church. The Third Lateran Council condemned any repayment of a debt with more money than was originally loaned; the Council of Vienne explicitly prohibited usury and declared any legislation tolerant of usury to be heretical; the first scholastics reproved the charging of interest. In the medieval economy, loans were entirely a consequence of necessity (bad harvests, fire in a workplace) and, under those conditions, it was considered morally reproachable to charge interest.\n\nIn the Renaissance era, greater mobility of people facilitated an increase in commerce and the appearance of appropriate conditions for entrepreneurs to start new, lucrative businesses. Given that borrowed money was no longer strictly for consumption but for production as well, it could not be viewed in the same manner. The School of Salamanca elaborated various reasons that justified the charging of interest. The person who received a loan benefited; one could consider interest as a premium paid for the risk taken by the loaning party. There was also the question of opportunity cost, in that the loaning party lost other possibilities of utilizing the loaned money. Finally, and perhaps most originally, was the consideration of \"money itself\" as a merchandise, and the use of one's money as something for which one should receive a benefit in the form of interest.\n\nMartín de Azpilcueta also considered the effect of time, formulating the time value of money. All things being equal, one would prefer to receive a given good now rather than in the future. This preference indicates greater value. Interest, under this theory, is the payment for the time the loaning individual is deprived of the money.\n\nIn the Renaissance era, theology was generally declining in the face of the rise of humanism, with scholasticism becoming nothing more than an empty and routine methodology . Under Francisco de Vitoria, the University of Salamanca led a period of intense activity in theology, especially a renaissance of Thomism, whose influence extended to European culture in general, but especially to other European universities. Perhaps the fundamental contribution of the School of Salamanca to theology is the study of problems much closer to humanity, which had previously been ignored, and the opening of questions that had previously not been posed. The term \"positive theology\" is sometimes used to distinguish this new, more practical, theology from the earlier \"scholastic theology\".\n\nIn an era when religion permeated everything, to analyze the morality of the acts was considered the most practical and useful study one could undertake to serve society. The novel contributions of the School in law and economics were rooted in concrete challenges and moral problems which confronted society under new conditions.\nOver the years a casuistry, a fixed set of answers to moral dilemmas, had been developed. However, by its nature, a casuistry can never be complete, leading to a search for more general rules or principles. From this developed Probabilism, where the ultimate criterion was not truth, but the certainty of not choosing evil. Developed principally by Bartolomé de Medina and continued by Gabriel Vázquez and Francisco Suárez, Probabilism became the most important school of moral thought in the coming centuries.\n\nThe polemic \"De auxiliis\" was a dispute between Jesuits and Dominicans which occurred at the end of the 16th century. The topic of the controversy was grace and predestination, that is to say how one could reconcile the liberty or free will of humans with divine omniscience. In 1582 the Jesuit Prudencio Montemayor and Fray Luis de León spoke publicly about human liberty. Domingo Báñez considered that they gave free will too great a weight and that they used terminology that sounded heretical; he denounced them to the Spanish Inquisition, accusing them of Pelagianism, a belief in human free will to the detriment of the doctrine of original sin and the grace granted by God. Montemayor and de León were banned from teaching and prohibited from defending such ideas.\n\nBáñez was then denounced to the Holy Office by Leon, who accused him of \"committing the error of Lutheranism\", that is of following the doctrines of Martin Luther. According to Lutheran doctrine, man is \"dead in his trespasses\" (Ephesians 2:1) as a consequence of original sin and cannot save himself by his own merit; only God can save man, \"For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.\" (Ephesians 2:8-9) Báñez was acquitted.\n\nNonetheless, this did not end the dispute, which Luis de Molina continued with his \"Concordia liberi arbitrii cum gratiae donis\" (1588). This is considered the best expression of the Jesuit position. The polemic continued over the course of years, including an attempt by the Dominicans to get Pope Clement VIII to condemn the \"Concordia\" of de Molina. Finally Paul V in 1607 recognized the liberty of Dominicans and Jesuits to defend their ideas, prohibiting that either side of this disagreement be characterized as heresy.\n\nThe existence of evil in a world created and ruled by an infinitely good and powerful God has long been viewed as paradoxical. (See Problem of evil). Vitoria reconciled the paradox by arguing first that free will is a gift from God to each person. It is impossible that each person will always freely choose only the good. Thus, evil results as a necessary consequence of human free will.\n\nIn April 2018, Universidad Francisco Marroquín offers a massive open online course (MOOC) The School of Salamanca about the origins of the Hispanic liberal tradition as well as the scope of its fundamental influence on modern Western Civilization. An overview of the School of Salamanca, the main intellectual current of early modern Spain. The online course consists of three main chapters on the school's contributions to Human Rights, Politics, and Economics, plus an introduction, a conclusion, and brief chapters on the school's founder Francisco de Vitoria and its climactic figure Juan de Mariana.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42798810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42798810", "title": "Sergei Skazkin", "text": "Sergei Skazkin\n\nSergei Danilovich Skazkin (19 October 1890, Novocherkassk - 14 April 1973, Moscow) was a Soviet historian.\n\nHe attended Moscow State University, graduating in 1915. From 1920 Skazkin taught at Moscow State University. Beginning in 1935 he was Professor of the Faculty of History, and from 1949 Head of the Department of Medieval History MSU.\n\nWork at MSU Skazkin combined with research at the Institute of History of the USSR: in 1961 he headed the section of Medieval History, Institute of History, Academy of Sciences of the USSR, and since 1968, after the division of the Institute, the same sector of the Institute of History, Academy of Sciences of the USSR.\n"}
{"id": "21261766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21261766", "title": "Spánverjavígin", "text": "Spánverjavígin\n\nSpánverjavígin also known as the \"Spanish Killings\" or \"Slaying of the Spaniards\" was the last documented massacre in Icelandic history. Some Basque whalers went on a whaling expedition to Iceland and were killed after conflict in 1615 with local people in the region of the Westfjords.\n\nIn the first half of the sixteenth century Basque whalers set up the world's first large-scale whaling industry in Terra Nova. The center of this industry was some ten ports on the southern coast of Labrador. During the peak years of the 1560s and 1570s the fleet comprised around 30 ships manned by up to 2,000 men, who killed in the region 400 whales each year. By the beginning of the seventeenth century Basque whaling had reached Iceland.\n\nThe year 1615 was a difficult year in Iceland with ice up to shores until late summer and considerable loss of livestock. In mid-summer three Basque whaling vessels put into Reykjarfjörður in Westfjords. Icelanders and the Basques had a mutual agreement at the beginning as they both had benefited from the enterprise. When the ships were ready for departure in late September a terrible gale arose and the ships were driven on the rocks and crushed. Most of the crew members survived (approx. 80). The captains Pedro de Aguirre and Esteban de Telleria wintered at Vatneyri (Patreksfjörður) and left for home the following year. The crew of Martin de Villafranca's ship split into two groups; one entered Ísafjarðardjúp, the other went to Bolungarvík and later to Þingeyri.\n\nThe first conflict arose when one group entered the empty house of a merchant of Þingeyri and stole some dried fish.\nAs retaliation, on 5 October, at night, a group of Icelanders entered the hut where the Basques were sleeping and killed 14 of them, only one young man called García, escaped. \nCaptain Martín de Villafranca of San Sebastián, whose father and grandfather had both been involved in Terra Nova whaling was among those who were killed.\nThe bodies were mutilated and sunken into water. Jón Guðmundsson the Learned wrote about the unjust and cruel deaths \"dishonored and sunken into sea, as if they were the worst pagans and not innocent Christians\".\nThree days after the first slaying, Ari Magnússon summoned a council at Súðavík and twelve judges agreed to declare as outlaws all the Basques.\n\nOn 13 October Martin and the other 17 of his group were killed at Æðey and Sandeyri in Ísafjarðardjúp, while they were fishing by the troops commanded by Ari Magnússon.\nAccording to Jón Guðmundsson, the victims were stabbed in the eyes, their ears, noses and had their genitals mutilated.\nThe captain, Martín de Villafranca, was injured in the shoulder and chest with an axe, but he managed to escape into the sea however he was stoned in the water and dragged to the shore where he was tortured to death.\n\nTwo verdicts were instigated by sheriff Ari Magnússon of Ögur, Ísafjarðardjúp in October 1615 and January 1616. The Basques were considered criminals after their ships were wrecked and in accordance with the Icelandic law book of 1281 it was decided that the only right thing to do was to kill as many of them as possible.\n\nJón Guðmundsson the Learned (1574–1658) wrote a critical account condemning the decision of the local sheriff to order the killings: \"Sönn frásaga af spanskra manna skipbrotum og slagi\" (A True Account of Spanish Men's Shipwrecks and Slayings). Jón says that they were unjustly killed; not wishing to take part in an attack on them, he fled south to Snæfellsnes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51976489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51976489", "title": "Talking Gravestones of Föhr", "text": "Talking Gravestones of Föhr\n\nThe Talking Gravestones () of Föhr, also known as the Story-telling Gravestones (\"Erzählende Grabsteine\"), are historic artifacts on the German island of Föhr. They can be found in the cemeteries of St. Laurentii church in Süderende St. Johannes church in Nieblum and St. Nikolai church in Boldixum which is now a district of Wyk auf Föhr. Similar objects are known from the neighbour island of Amrum. All such headstones made until 1870 are designated cultural heritage monuments. Their inscriptions tell the biographies of the deceased including their private and professional lives, extraordinary events, and honorary appointments. With 265 monuments, the St. Johannis cemetery has the largest inventory of historical gravestones in Nordfriesland district. The best-known tombstone is the one of Matthias Petersen who was a very successful whaling captain and was therefore dubbed \"Lucky Matthew\" (\"der glückliche Matthias\"). The only ornamental decoration on this stone is a circular relief depicting the goddess of fortune upon a swimming whale in the style of a coat of arms. It features the only inscription completely in Latin language in the cemetery of Süderende, which relates that Petersen who died in 1706 caught 373 whales during his lifetime.\n\nThe oldest Talking Gravestones where made from slabs of red sandstone that originates from the Solling hills in northern Westphalia. Later tombstones measure roughly . Most gravestones were made from sandstone quarried in Obernkirchen, Lower Saxony. Shipmasters used to take the stones on board as ballast. Only wealthy people from Föhr could afford totally new monuments while poor persons would have to grind off old slabs to add a new design. Sometimes also test objects from a stonemason's workshop may have been erected in the cemetery. This theory is supported by specific letters and the word \"ALVABET\" on the backside of one headstone.\n\nApart from a few great tomb plates that were likely created by foreign, professional stonemasons, all Talking Gravestones were made locally by the island population. At first it may have been Dutch wood carvers from the mainland that were hired to decorate the gravestones, until ship carpenters had obtained the skills of stonemasonry and got orders from the neighbouring islands and Föhr proper to create gravestones. The design of the decorations is sometimes very intricate, so that the process of creation took a long time. As a result, many gravestones could only be erected several years after the burial of the deceased person.\n\nThe texts on most gravestones are exclusively written in the \"noble\" church language of Standard German (\"Hochdeutsch\") although the island then used to belong to Denmark and the everyday-language was Fering, a local dialect of the North Frisian language which is still spoken today. A few stones exhibit texts in Low German which used to be the official and ecclesiastical language until around 1700, while other texts are written in Latin. Some 20th-century tombstones have inscriptions in Fering. In order to tell the long biographies on the limited space of the stone slab, the stonemasons sometimes used abbreviations:\n\n\nThe relief decorations are kept in baroque and rococo style. They are often detailed and fantastic with unique forms that are not repeated. The images may show \"angels as symbols of justice, happiness, and a sign of faith, love and hope, but also ships, windmills and the family tree are shown\". Scenes from the Bible are often the main motive of the ornaments on a stone. When a seafarer died on his ship, the ship is depicted with full sails while unrigged ships mean that the sailor died on land. Other popular motives are items from the deceased person's daily trade but also Lady Justice.\n\nA special iconographic tradition can be found in the floral motives: the husband and the sons of a family are depicted on the left-hand side of the image as tulip-like flowers whereas the wife and daughters are shown on the right-hand side as star-shaped flowers with four petals. A broken stalk is a sign that the respective person was already dead when the tombstone was created. The frequency of broken flowers attests a high rate of infant mortality.\n\nThe oldest gravestones were made of sandstone slabs. To put them up in a slanted position, a hole was drilled through the stone so a wooden staff or a whale bone could support the stone. In later times, largers stones became popular that were called 'Bremen stones' according to their origin. The oldest Talking Gravestone dates back to the year 1605. After 1700, the income of the population increased rapidly. because from the 17th to the 19th century, seafarers from Föhr including a number of captains pursued whaling and merchant shipping. In these times, upright tombstones were used more often. Steles were introduced in the 18th century. When they were erected, they were mostly decorated with a coloured ornament on top, the section below would relate the biography of the deceased, and at the bottom would often be a Biblical verse or another image. When old stones were grinded off, the original top decoration often remained intact.\n\nThe early 19th century marked the decline of this type of gravestones. Classicist monuments became increasingly popular which refrained from displaying images and extended biographies. In the mid-19th century, this special form of burial culture had become totally uncommon. Nowadays, polished slabs of granite that only display the name and vital statistics of the deceased are usually found on Föhr and other North Frisian islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "23477159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23477159", "title": "The Naked Ladies", "text": "The Naked Ladies\n\nThe Naked Ladies are a statue complex on a rockery and water cascade in the gardens of York House, Twickenham, in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames, England. The larger than human size statues depict eight Oceanids and a pair of aquatic horses. They were carved in the fin de siècle style from white Carrara marble and probably came from Italy in the late nineteenth century or very early twentieth century. Originally they were part of a larger set of statues that was subdivided after the suicide of the initial purchaser.\n\nAfter a somewhat unpromising start, they were installed in their current location without the benefit of the original design for their display. The statues spent several years as the backdrop for some of London's grandest garden parties. They subsequently passed by default into public ownership, and suffered some vandalism, but have been restored and remain to this day on view in the corner of a municipal garden.\n\nThe statues are of Italian design, and come from Carrara. They are of a monumental scale with several of the individual blocks weighing over .\n\nThe sculptures were acquired during the disposal of the property of the original owner after his death. Due to the unusual circumstances of their acquisition they had become separated from any instructions as to their intended layout, and also from at least one other group of statues in what was originally intended to be a larger statue complex or complexes.\n\nThe rockery was designed and the whole complex installed by the British company of J Cheal & Sons who had to make their own interpretation as to the intended layout of the statues. Though they were able to incorporate all the statues into one tableaux, their interpretation of the sculptor's intended design has led to comments about the unusual poses of some of the statues, especially when viewed from the side.\n\nOriginally some of the ladies were holding pearls, but much of this detail has now been lost. There have been various theories as to the intended subject matter, with Pearl Fishers, Pegasus, Naiads and the birth of Venus all having been suggested in addition to the usual attribution as Oceanides. For want of anything more official, they have become known as \"The Naked Ladies\".\n\nThe complex is in the gardens of York House by the banks of the River Thames. The gardens have been laid out in an Italian style to give unrestricted frontal views of the statue complex from the entire width of the gardens. The statues are set in a rockery behind a pond, with trees and security fencing restricting side and rear views.\n\nThe statues were amongst the property of the celebrated fraudster Whitaker Wright, who committed suicide by ingestion of a cyanide capsule upon being convicted of fraud. It is not certain where he acquired the statues, or who carved them. After his death much of his collection was sold from Witley Park, including \"the Naked Ladies\" and also some mounted nymphs of a similar style, which went to Beale Park; one of the latter bore the mark \"O SPALMACH, STUDIO O ANDREONI, ROMA.\" identifying the studio of the Roman sculptor Orazio Andreoni, so it is possible that they were all sculpted there by Oscar Spalmach.\n\nThe statues were acquired from Witley Park and brought to their current location by Sir Ratanji Dadabhoy Tata. Sir Ratan had bought York House from the duc d'Orléans in 1906, and by the end of 1909 he had had the Riverside gardens redesigned in the Italian style and the statues installed.\n\nSir Ratan was for several years a noted host for London High Society, with King George V among the guests at his garden parties.\n\nThe statues came into the \"de facto\" possession of Twickenham Council in 1924 when they purchased York House for their new town hall. The statues had been left behind by the previous owners, as they had been unable to find a buyer despite putting them up for auction.\n\nIn the Blitz during the Second World War, there was concern that moonlight reflecting on the statues would give a navigation mark to the Luftwaffe. So as part of London's Blackout measures the statues were covered with a \"grey sludge\".\n\nAs a result of local government reorganisation in the 1960s Twickenham became part of the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames, but the town hall remains at York House and the gardens continue to be open to the public. The statues have gone through at least one major restoration to remove graffiti and the wartime grey cement, and reverse the effects of vandalism by replacing lost fingers, pearls and even a hoof. In 1983 the statues were protected with a Grade II listing by English Heritage.\n\n\"The Naked Ladies\" are one of the visitor attractions of Twickenham, have had a beer named after them, and are a popular backdrop for wedding photos.\n\n"}
{"id": "93721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93721", "title": "The Passover Plot", "text": "The Passover Plot\n\nThe Passover Plot is a 1965 conspiracy theory book by British biblical scholar Hugh J. Schonfield, who also published a translation of the New Testament with a Jewish perspective. The book was adapted into a film, \"The Passover Plot\" (1976).\n\nBased on his research into the social and religious culture in which Jesus was born, lived and died, and into other literature, including the source documents of the Gospels, Schonfield reached the following conclusions:\n\nThe culmination of his plan was to be his death (the crucifixion), his resurrection and his reign as the true kingly and priestly messiah, not in heaven but on earth—the realized king of the Jews.\n\nAccording to Schonfield's analysis, the events of the Passover, which are presented in all the Gospels, but inconsistently, are most accurately presented in the Gospel of John. His reading of that Gospel convinced him that John's account, though probably filtered through an assistant and transcription in John's old age, suggests that Jesus had planned everything. Among other things, so that he would not be on the cross for more than a few hours before the Sabbath arrived when it was required by law that Jews be taken down, so that one of his supporters, who was on hand, would give him water (to quench his thirst) that was actually laced with a drug to make him unconscious, and so that Joseph of Arimathea, a well-connected supporter, would collect him off the cross while still alive (but appearing dead) so that he could be secretly nursed back to health. Schonfield suggests that the plan went awry because of a soldier's actions with a spear. Schonfield gives evidence of a high-ranking member of the Sanhedrin who was one of Jesus' followers, likely the Beloved Disciple who is otherwise obscure, and notes several instances in which knowledge of or access to the Temple was available to one or more of Jesus' followers. He identifies this follower as John, the source of the Gospel many decades later whilst living in Asia Minor. He suggests that this Apostle, and Joseph of Arimathea, were responsible for events following the Crucifixion, and that it might have been this Apostle (an 'undercover Disciple', as it were) who was seen (by those who did not know him) at the Tomb on the morning of the Resurrection.\n\nAfter first laying out the storyline and outcome of Jesus' life in the first half of the book, along with supportive arguments, Schonfield devotes the second half of the book to a more detailed explanation of the concepts and arguments used to support his conclusions. Schonfield also discusses how Jesus' original message and purpose may have become transformed during the century after his death.\n\n\"The Passover Plot\" is the name of a 1976 film which was adapted from this book. The movie starred Zalman King as \"Yeshua\" (Jesus), and the cast included Harry Andrews, Dan Hedaya, and Donald Pleasence. It was directed by Michael Campus and nominated for an Oscar for Best Costume Design. Schonfield also featured in the dramatised documentary television series, \"Jesus: The Evidence\" (1984: LWT for Channel 4). \n\n"}
{"id": "24599444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24599444", "title": "Timeline of Real Irish Republican Army actions", "text": "Timeline of Real Irish Republican Army actions\n\nThis is a timeline of actions by the Real Irish Republican Army, also called the Real IRA, an Irish republican paramilitary group. The group was formed in late 1997 by members of the Provisional Irish Republican Army who disagreed with that organisation's ceasefire.\n\nThe Real IRA is the largest and most active of the dissident republican paramilitaries waging a campaign against the British security forces. The other main republican paramilitary groups are the group which calls itself Óglaigh na hÉireann, the Continuity IRA and Arm na Poblachta the newest group. All actions listed took place in Northern Ireland unless stated otherwise.\n\n\"Note: for some of the incidents in 1998, it is unclear whether the Real IRA, the Continuity IRA, or both organisations were responsible.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52008300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52008300", "title": "Tomorrow (time)", "text": "Tomorrow (time)\n\nTomorrow is a temporal construct of the relative future; literally of the day after the current day (today), or figuratively of future periods or times. Tomorrow is usually considered just beyond the present and counter to yesterday. It is important in time perception because it is the first direction the arrow of time takes humans on Earth.\n\nThe use of terms such as tomorrow, now and future are part an a-series view which is part of the presentism philosophy of time.\n\nFor a young child, \"tomorrow\" is \"an undefined, infinite time of the idea that time is just an infinite and arbitrary definition of an yet unidentified of what we like to call time, yet the child slowly learns the meaning of tomorrow.\" The concept of \"tomorrow\" is rarely understood by 3-year-old children, but 4 year olds understand the idea.\n"}
{"id": "5151664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151664", "title": "Upper Őrség", "text": "Upper Őrség\n\nUpper Őrség (, ; ) is a traditional ethnographic region and a small Hungarian language island in southern Burgenland, Austria. It consists of the town of Oberwart (Hun: \"Felsőőr\") and the two villages of Unterwart (Hun: \"Alsóőr\") and Siget in der Wart (Hun: \"Őrisziget\"). The population of the three settlements was 7694 according to the 2001 census, of whom 1922 people (25%) belonged to the ethnic Hungarian minority. The economic and cultural center of the microregion is Oberwart/Felsőőr.\n\nIn the 11th century the region was part of the border zone (\"gyepű\") of the Kingdom of Hungary. The mainly uninhabited frontier was defended by free border guard communities called \"őrök\" és \"lövők\" (guards and archers). In contemporary Latin documents they are called \"spiculatores\" and \"sagittarii\". They were probably related to the border guards of the eastern frontier, the Székelys.\n\nThe descendants of the guards are still living in the villages of the Upper Őrség (and in the Lower Őrség or simply Őrség in present-day Hungary). The archers later assimilated into the German population. They lived around the villages of Alsólövő (now Unterschützen) and Felsölövő (now Oberschützen). There were also other border guard communities elsewhere.\n\nIn the early Middle Ages the \"gyepű\" became part of the county of Vas. Upper Őrség belonged to this county until 1921.\n\nThe community of the \"őr\"s were granted the privileges of nobility by King Charles I of Hungary at the beginning of the 14th century. They were free of serfdom and taxation. These privileges were acknowledged by Rudolph I in 1582. \n\nTheir nobility differentiated the \"őr\"s from the people of the neighbouring villages, and was important in the formation of their distinct identity. Some families kept track of their noble origins even in the 20th century. In the village of Alsóőr/Unterwart several families trace back their origin to medieval times, for example the Balikó, Balla, Benedek, Benkő, Deáki, Farkas, Gaál, Gangoly, Gyáki, Györög, Heritz, Kelemen, Leéb, Moór, Német, Paál, Palank, Seper, Szabó, Takács and Zarka families.\n\nUpper Őrség became a language island in the 16th century. At that time the neighbouring territories were already populated with Germans. After the devastating Ottoman war in 1532 Croatian settlers arrived. The \"őr\"s became an isolated community in this new situation. They spoke their distinct dialect and practised strict endogamy until at least the middle of the 20th century.\n\nThe \"őr\"s took part in the Hungarian wars of independence against the Habsburgs in the Rákóczi Uprising (1703-1711) and in the Revolutionary war of 1848-49.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century the community began to dwindle, due to the decline of small crafts and the frittering away of the noble properties between the children. Several new Hungarian civil servants and intellectuals arrived in Felsőőr which was the centre of local government but the newcomers remained \"strangers\" to the original population. After the absorption into Austria in 1921 most of them left Burgenland.\n\nAfter World War I a small German-speaking area in the west of Hungary was awarded to the Republic of Austria by the Treaty of Trianon. The people of Upper Őrség protested against the decision but their attempt to establish an independent micro-state (see Lajtabánság) failed.\n\nAs an ethnic minority the \"őr\"s tried to maintain their identity in the first decades of the new republic. After the Anschluss the policy of Germanization severely affected the ethnic minorities. Hungarian schools were closed and the use of native language strongly discouraged. During World War II the Hungarian population of Burgenland halved (in 1934 10,442 Hungarians lived in the province, in 1951 only 5251).\n\nAfter World War II the remaining \"őr\"s were totally separated from the mother country by the Iron Curtain. In the 1960s Oberwart became a small industrial town with a German majority. Assimilation accelerated, although there were attempts to keep alive the sense of identity, for example by the formation of cultural groups and associations. The Reformed Church played an important part of this process, especially in Oberwart/Felsőőr. In 1976 the Hungarians were officially recognised as a minority group by the Austrian state. The Austrian policy against ethnic minorities changed very slowly in the last decades of the 20th century, but today minority rights are accepted.\n\nAfter the democratic change in Hungary in 1989 and the accession to the EU in 2004 the remaining Hungarian population of the region had an opportunity to re-establish cultural and economic connections with Hungary.\n\nThe Hungarians of Upper Őrség have a distinct dialect, probably related to the Székelys of Transylvania. Typical phonetical differences compared to the standard Hungarian language:\n\n"}
{"id": "148685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148685", "title": "Vilhelm Moberg", "text": "Vilhelm Moberg\n\nKarl Artur Vilhelm Moberg (20 August 1898 – 8 August 1973) was a Swedish journalist, author, playwright, historian, and debater. His literary career, spanning more than 45 years, is associated with his series \"The Emigrants\". The four books, published between 1949 and 1959, deal with the Swedish emigration to the United States in the 19th century, and are the subject of two movie adaptations and a musical. Among other works are \"Raskens\" (1927) and \"Ride This Night\" (1941), a historical novel of a 17th-century rebellion in Småland acknowledged for its subliminal but widely recognised criticism against the Hitler regime.\n\nA noted public intellectual and debater in Sweden, he was noted for very vocal criticism of the Swedish monarchy (most notably after the Haijby affair), likening it with a servile government by divine mandate, and publicly supporting its replacement with a Swiss-style confederal republic. He spoke out aggressively against the policies of Nazi Germany, the Greek military junta, and the Soviet Union, and his works were among those destroyed in Nazi book burnings. In 1971, he scolded Prime Minister Olof Palme for refusing to offer the Nobel Prize in Literature to its recipient Alexander Solzhenitsyn – who was refused permission to attend the ceremony in Stockholm – through the Swedish embassy in Moscow.\n\nMoberg's suicide by self-inflicted drowning also drew much attention. He had had a long struggle with depression and writer's block.\n\nKarl Artur Vilhelm Moberg was born in 1898 on a farm outside of the town Emmaboda in the Parish of Algutsboda in Småland, in southern Sweden. He was the fourth child of six, of whom only three survived into adulthood. His forebears were soldiers and small farmers. He lived the first nine years of his life at the tenement soldier's cottage in Moshultamåla that his father Karl Moberg, a territorial soldier, took over in 1888. In 1907 the family moved to a small farm in the village of Moshultamåla. This had been the family home of his mother Ida Moberg; they had lost it due to poverty. Money from her family in America enabled them to buy the property back. Moberg had only limited schooling from 1906 until 1912. However, as a child he was an avid reader; he published his first writing at the age of 13.\n\nMoberg worked as a farmer and forest laborer, and later at glassblowing before and between his various studies. In 1916 he nearly emigrated to the United States, following his uncle and aunt, but ultimately decided to remain in Sweden with his parents. Largely self-educated, Moberg studied at Kronoberg County Folk High School in Grimslöv from 1916 to 1917, and at Katrineholms Praktiska Skola, a private school in Katrineholm, from 1917 to 1918. Moberg contracted the Spanish Flu in 1918, and was sick for half a year. After his illness, Moberg took a position on the newspaper \"Vadstena Läns Tidning\" in Östergötland which published many of his stories between 1919 and 1929.\n\nIn 1926, Moberg made his breakthrough as a playwright when his comedy \"Kassabrist\" had a successful run in Stockholm. He published his first novel \"Raskens\" the following year. Moberg became a full-time writer when the success of \"Raskens\" enabled him to devote himself entirely to writing.\n\nMany of his works have been translated into English, and he is well-recognized in the English-speaking world among those interested in Scandinavian culture and history. In his autobiographical novel, \"A Soldier with a Broken Rifle\" (Swedish: \"Soldat med brutet gevär\"), he speaks to the importance of giving voice to the downtrodden, illiterate classes of his forebears. This viewpoint also formed his \"History of the Swedish People, I-II\" (Swedish: \"Min svenska historia, berättad för folket\", I-II), published in 1970-71 in both Swedish and English. He had intended the history to have more volumes, but he never finished it.\n\nAs a playwright, Moberg wrote 38 works for the stage or for radio (1919-1973). Some were produced as lighter classics of the Swedish stage and television, or were adapted as feature films by directors such as Ingmar Bergman (\"Lea och Rakel\"/\"Leah and Rachel\"; Malmö City Theatre 1955) and Alf Sjöberg (\"Domaren\"/\"The Judge\"; 1960).\n\nMoberg had become a member of a young Social Democrats club in 1913. In his works, he often expressed a republican (anti-royalist) point of view, much due to the facts that surfaced in the Kejne affair and Haijby affair, in which Moberg took an active part.\n\nFrom the 1950s, Moberg participated in debates about the Swedish monarchy, bureaucracy, and corruption, and devoted much time to help individual citizens who had suffered injustice. Much like others of his generation of Swedish authors from a working-class background, such as Ivar Lo-Johansson, Harry Martinson and Moa Martinson, Moberg depicted the life of the dispossessed, their traditions, customs, and everyday struggle. His novels are important documents of social history, and trace the influences of various social and political movements in Sweden.\nMoberg's most famous work is \"The Emigrants\" series of four novels, written between 1949 and 1959, that describe one Swedish family's emigration from Småland to Chisago County, Minnesota in the mid-19th century. This was a destiny shared by almost one million Swedish people, including several of the author's relatives. These novels have been translated into English: \"The Emigrants\" (1951), \"Unto a Good Land\" (1954), \"The Settlers\" (1961), and \"The Last Letter Home\" (1961). His literary portrayal of the Swedish-American immigrant experience is considered comparable to O.E. Rolvaag's work depicting that of Norwegian-American immigrants.\n\nSwedish film director Jan Troell 1971-72 turned the books into two major feature films, \"The Emigrants\" and \"The New Land\", starring Max von Sydow and Liv Ullmann as Karl Oskar and Kristina. These were nominated for several Academy Awards and \"The New Land\" won Golden Globe Awards.\n\nThe musical \"Kristina från Duvemåla\" (English title \"Kristina\") (1995) by ex-ABBA members Björn Ulvaeus and Benny Andersson is based on Moberg's \"The Emigrants Series\".\n\nEven several of the other works by Moberg have been turned into films and TV series in Sweden over the years.\n\nMoberg donated his papers to the Swedish Emigrant Institute in Växjö, Sweden, It displays his original manuscripts, excerpts, notes, and photographs in The Moberg Room, in such a way that visitors get a feeling of meeting Vilhelm Moberg in his workshop. This unique collection of Moberg memorabilia includes Axel Olsson's sculpture entitled \"The Emigrants\", which portrays the main characters featured in \"The Emigrants Series\". The Vilhelm Moberg Society, headquartered in the Swedish Emigrant Institute, promotes publications, research and popular interest in Moberg's works.\n\nMoberg struggled with severe depression in the last years of his life. He committed suicide by drowning himself in a lake outside his house. He left a note to his wife saying: \"The time is twenty past seven; I can be found in the lake, for eternal sleep. Forgive me, I could not endure.\" Moberg was buried in Norra begravningsplatsen in Stockholm.\n\nKlockan är tjugo över sju. Jag går att söka i sjön, sömnen utan slut. Förlåt mig, jag orkade inte uthärda.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36693108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36693108", "title": "Vyadhapura", "text": "Vyadhapura\n\nVyadhapura was an ancient city of the Funan civilization, likely in what is now Ba Phnum District in the province of Prey Veng, Cambodia. It was capital of the Kingdom of Funan early in its history. Chinese reports indicated that it was about 120 miles from the sea.\n"}
