{"id": "5368746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5368746", "title": "AP Physics C: Mechanics", "text": "AP Physics C: Mechanics\n\nAP Physics C: Mechanics (often referred to as AP C Mechanics, AP Mechanics, or simply AP Physics C) is an Advanced Placement science course that studies Newtonian mechanics. It is one of the AP Physics courses offered in some U.S. secondary schools. \n\nIntended to be equivalent to an introductory college course in mechanics for physics or engineering majors, the course modules are:\n\nMethods of calculus are used wherever appropriate in formulating physical principles and in applying them to physical problems. Therefore, students should have completed or be concurrently enrolled in a calculus class.\n\nThis course may be combined with to make a unified Physics C course that prepares for both exams.\n\nThe course culminates in an optional exam for which high-performing students may receive some credit towards their college coursework, depending on which college or university they attend.\n\nThe AP examination for AP Physics C: Mechanics is separate from the AP examination for AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism. Before 2006, test-takers paid only once and were given the choice of taking either one or two parts of the Physics C test.\n\nThe exam is configured in two categories: a 35-question multiple choice section and a 3-question free response section. Test takers are allowed to use an approved calculator during the entire exam. The test is weighted such that each section is worth fifty percent (50%) of the final score. Additionally, tables of equations, information, and constants are provided for all portions of the exam as of 2015. This and are the shortest AP exams, with total testing time of 90 minutes.\n\nThe topics covered by the exam are as follows:\n\nThe grade distributions since 2010 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "14417025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417025", "title": "Accounting ethics", "text": "Accounting ethics\n\nAccounting ethics is primarily a field of applied ethics and is part of business ethics and human ethics, the study of moral values and judgments as they apply to accountancy. It is an example of professional ethics. Accounting introduced by Luca Pacioli, and later expanded by government groups, professional organizations, and independent companies. Ethics are taught in accounting courses at higher education institutions as well as by companies training accountants and auditors.\n\nDue to the diverse range of accounting services and recent corporate collapses, attention has been drawn to ethical standards accepted within the accounting profession. These collapses have resulted in a widespread disregard for the reputation of the accounting profession. To combat the criticism and prevent fraudulent accounting, various accounting organizations and governments have developed regulations and remedies for improved ethics among the accounting profession.\n\nThe nature of the work carried out by accountants and auditors requires a high level of ethics. Shareholders, potential shareholders, and other users of the financial statements rely heavily on the yearly financial statements of a company as they can use this information to make an informed decision about investment. They rely on the opinion of the accountants who prepared the statements, as well as the auditors that verified it, to present a true and fair view of the company. Knowledge of ethics can help accountants and auditors to overcome ethical dilemmas, allowing for the right choice that, although it may not benefit the company, will benefit the public who relies on the accountant/auditor's reporting.\n\nMost countries have differing focuses on enforcing accounting laws. In Germany, accounting legislation is governed by \"tax law\"; in Sweden, by \"accounting law\"; and in the United Kingdom, by the \"company law\". In addition, countries have their own organizations which regulate accounting. For example, Sweden has the Bokföringsnämden (BFN - Accounting Standards Board), Spain the Instituto de Comtabilidad y Auditoria de Cuentas (ICAC), and the United States the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).\n\nLuca Pacioli, the \"Father of Accounting\", wrote on accounting ethics in his first book , published in 1494. Ethical standards have since then been developed through government groups, professional organizations, and independent companies. These various groups have led accountants to follow several codes of ethics to perform their duties in a professional work environment. Accountants must follow the code of ethics set out by the professional body of which they are a member. United States accounting societies such as the Association of Government Accountants, Institute of Internal Auditors, and the National Association of Accountants all have codes of ethics, and many accountants are members of one or more of these societies.\n\nIn 1887, the American Association of Public Accountants (AAPA) was created; it was the first step in developing professionalism in the United States accounting industry. By 1905, the AAPA's first ethical codes were formulated to educate its members. During its twentieth anniversary meeting in October 1907, ethics was a major topic of the conference among its members. As a result of discussions, a list of professional ethics was incorporated into the organization's bylaws. However, because membership to the organization was voluntary, the association could not require individuals to conform to the suggested behaviors. Other accounting organizations, such as the Illinois Institute of Accountants, also pursued discussion on the importance of ethics for the field. The AAPA was renamed several times throughout its history, before becoming the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) as it's named today. The AICPA developed five divisions of ethical principles that its members should follow: \"independence, integrity, and objectivity\"; \"competence and technical standards\"; \"responsibilities to clients\"; \"responsibilities to colleagues\"; as well as \"other responsibilities and practices\". Each of these divisions provided guidelines on how a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) should act as a professional. Failure to comply with the guidelines could have caused an accountant to be barred from practicing. When developing the ethical principles, the AICPA also considered how the profession would be viewed by those outside of the accounting industry.\n\nCourses on this subject have grown significantly in the last couple of decades. Teaching accountants about ethics can involve role playing, lectures, case studies, guest lectures, as well as other mediums. Recent studies indicate that nearly all accounting textbooks touch on ethics in some way. In 1993, the first United States center that focused on the study of ethics in the accounting profession opened at Binghamton University. Starting in 1999, several U.S. states began requiring ethics classes prior to taking the CPA exam.\n\nIn 1988, Stephen E. Loeb proposed that accounting ethics education should include seven goals (adapted from a list by Daniel Callahan). To implement these goals, he pointed out that accounting ethics could be taught throughout accounting curriculum or in an individual class tailored to the subject. Requiring it be taught throughout the curriculum would necessitate all accounting teachers to have knowledge on the subject (which may require training). A single course has issues as to where to include the course in a student's education (for example, before preliminary accounting classes or near the end of a student's degree requirements), whether there is enough material to cover in a semester class, and whether most universities have room in a four-year curriculum for a single class on the subject.\n\nThere has been debate on whether ethics should be taught in a university setting. Supporters point out that ethics are important to the profession, and should be taught to accountants entering the field. In addition, the education would help to reinforce students' ethical values and inspire them to prevent others from making unethical decisions. Critics argue that an individual is ethical or not, and that teaching an ethics course would serve no purpose. Despite opposition, instruction on accounting ethics by universities and conferences, has been encouraged by professional organizations and accounting firms. The Accounting Education Change Commission (AECC) has called for students to \"know and understand the ethics of the profession and be able to make value-based judgments.\"\n\nPhillip G. Cottel argued that in order to uphold strong ethics, an accountant \"must have a strong sense of values, the ability to reflect on a situation to determine the ethical implications, and a commitment to the well-being of others.\" Iris Stuart recommends an ethics model consisting of four steps: the accountant must recognize that an ethical dilemma is occurring; identify the parties that would be interested in the outcome of the dilemma; determine alternatives and evaluate its effect on each alternative on the interested parties; and then select the best alternative.\n\nAccounting ethics has been deemed difficult to control as accountants and auditors must consider the interest of the public (which relies on the information gathered in audits) while ensuring that they remained employed by the company they are auditing. They must consider how to best apply accounting standards even when faced with issues that could cause a company to face a significant loss or even be discontinued. Due to several accounting scandals within the profession, critics of accountants have stated that when asked by a client \"what does two plus two equal?\" the accountant would be likely to respond \"what would you like it to be?\". This thought process along with other criticisms of the profession's issues with conflict of interest, have led to various increased standards of professionalism while stressing ethics in the work environment.\n\nThe role of accountants is critical to society. Accountants serve as financial reporters and\nintermediaries in the capital markets and owe their primary obligation to the public interest. The\ninformation they provide is crucial in aiding managers, investors and others in making critical economic\ndecisions. Accordingly, ethical improprieties by accountants can be detrimental to society, resulting in\ndistrust by the public and disruption of efficient capital market operations.\nFrom the 1980s to the present there have been multiple accounting scandals that were widely reported on by the media and resulted in fraud charges, bankruptcy protection requests, and the closure of companies and accounting firms. The scandals were the result of creative accounting, misleading financial analysis, as well as bribery. Various companies had issues with fraudulent accounting practices, including Nugan Hand Bank, Phar-Mor, WorldCom, and AIG. One of the most widely reported violation of accounting ethics involved Enron, a multinational company, that for several years had not shown a true or fair view of their financial statements. Their auditor Arthur Andersen, an accounting firm considered one of the \"Big Five\", signed off on the validity of the accounts despite the inaccuracies in the financial statements. When the unethical activities were reported, not only did Enron dissolve but Arthur Andersen also went out of business. Enron's shareholders lost $25 billion as a result of the company's bankruptcy. Although only a fraction of Arthur Anderson's employees were involved with the scandal, the closure of the firm resulted in the loss of 85,000 jobs.\n\nFraudulent accounting can arise from a variety of issues. These problems usually come to light eventually and could ruin not only the company but also the auditors for not discovering or revealing the misstatements. Several studies have proposed that a firm's corporate culture as well as the values it stresses may negatively alter an accountant's behavior. This environment could contribute to the degradation of ethical values that were learned from universities.\n\nUntil 1977, ethics rules prevented accounting and auditing firms from advertising to clients. When the rules were lifted, spending by the largest CPA firms on advertisements rose from US$4 million in the 1980s to more than $100 million in the 2000s. Critics claimed that, by allowing the firms to advertise, the business side overstepped the professional side of the profession, which led to a conflict of interest. This focus allowed for occurrences of fraud, and caused the firms, according to Apj , \"... to offer services that made them more consultants and business advisers than auditors.\" As accounting firms became less interested in the lower-paying audits due to more focus on higher earning services such as consulting, problems arose. This disregard for the lack of time spent on audits resulted in a lack of attention to catching creative and fraudulent accounting.\n\nA 2007 article in \"Managerial Auditing Journal\" determined the top nine factors that contributed to ethical failures for accountants based on a survey of 66 members of the International Federation of Accountants. The factors include (in order of most significant): \"self-interest, failure to maintain objectivity and independence, inappropriate professional judgment, lack of ethical sensitivity, improper leadership and ill-culture, failure to withstand advocacy threats, lack of competence, lack of organizational and peer support, and lack of professional body support.\" The main factor, self-interest, is the motivation by an accountant to act in his/her best interest or when facing a conflict of interest. For example, if an auditor has an issue with an account he/she is auditing, but is receiving financial incentives to ignore these issues, the auditor may act unethically.\n\nThe International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are standards and interpretations developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, which are principle-based. IFRS are used by over 115 countries or areas including the European Union, Australia, and Hong Kong. The United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), the standard framework of guidelines for financial accounting, is largely rule-based. Critics have stated that the rules-based GAAP is partly responsible for the number of scandals that the United States has suffered. The principles-based approach to monitoring requires more professional judgment than the rules-based approach.\n\nThere are many stakeholders in many countries such as The United States who report several concerns in the usage of rules-based accounting. According to recent studies, many believe that the principles-based approach in financial reporting would not only improve but would also support an auditor upon dealing with client’s pressure. As a result, financial reports could be viewed with fairness and transparency. When the U.S. switched to International accounting standards, they are composed that this would bring change. However, as a new chairperson of the SEC takes over the system, the transition brings a stronger review about the pros and cons of rules- based accounting. While the move towards international standards progresses, there are small amount of research that examines the effect of principle- based standards in an auditor’s decision- making process. According to 114 auditing experts, most are willing to allow clients to manage their net income based on rules- based standards. These results offers insight to the SEC, IASB and FASB in weighing the arguments in the debate of principles- vs. rules based- accounting.\n\nIFRS is based on \"understandability, relevance, materiality, reliability, and comparability\". Since IFRS has not been adopted by all countries, these practices do not make the international standards viable in the world domain. In particular, the United States has not yet conformed and still uses GAAP which makes comparing principles and rules difficult. In August 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) proposed that the United States switch from GAAP to IFRS, starting in 2014.\n\nSince the major accounting scandals, new reforms, regulations, and calls for increased higher education have been introduced to combat the dangers of unethical behavior. By educating accountants on ethics before entering the workforce, such as through higher education or initial training at companies, it is believed it will help to improve the credibility of the accounting profession. Companies and accounting organizations have expanded their assistance with educators by providing education materials to assist professors in educating students.\n\nNew regulations in response to the scandals include the Corporate Law Economic Reform Program Act 2004 in Australia as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, developed by the United States. Sarbanes-Oxley limits the level of work which can be carried out by accounting firms. In addition, the Act put a limit on the fee which a firm can receive from one client as a percentage of their total fees. This ensures that companies are not wholly reliant on one firm for its income, in the hope that they do not need to act unethically to keep a steady income. The act also protects whistleblowers and requires senior management in public companies to sign off on the accuracy of its company's accounting records. In 2002, the five members of the Public Oversight Board (POB), which oversaw ethics within the accounting profession, resigned after critics deemed the board ineffective and the SEC proposed developing a new panel, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). The PCAOB was developed through the Act, and replaced the POB.\n\nIn 2003, the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) released a report entitled \"Rebuilding Public Confidence in Financial Reporting: An International Perspective\". By studying the international company collapses as a result of accounting issues, it determined areas for improvement within organizations as well as recommendations for companies to develop more effective ethics codes. The report also recommended that companies pursue options that would improve training and support so accountants could better handle ethical dilemmas.\nA collaborative effort by members of the international financial regulatory community led by Michel Prada, Chairman of the French Financial Markets Authority, resulting in establishment of the Public Interest Oversight Board (PIOB) on 1 March 2005.\nThe PIOB provides oversight of the IFAC standards-setting boards: the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), the International Accounting Education Standards Board (IAESB) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA).\n\nThe most recent reform came into effect in July 2010 when President Obama signed \"The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act\". The act covers a broad range of changes. The highlights of the legislation are consumer protections with authority and independence, ends too big to fail bail outs, advance warning system, transparency and accountability for exotic instruments, executive compensation and corporate governance, protects investors, and enforces regulations on the books. The legislation also resulted in the Office of the Whistleblower, which was established to administer the SEC's whistleblower program. Congress authorized the SEC to provide monetary awards to whistleblowers who come forward with information that results in a minimum of a $1,000,000 sanction. The rewards are between 10% and 30% of the dollar amount collected. Whistleblowers help identify fraud and other unethical behaviors early on. The result is less harm to investors, quickly holding offenders responsible, and to maintain the integrity of the U.S. markets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47338873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47338873", "title": "Adelaide Manning", "text": "Adelaide Manning\n\nElizabeth Adelaide Manning (1828 – 10 August 1905) was a British writer and editor. She championed kindergartens. She was one of the first students to attend Girton College. Manning was active for the National Indian Association which championed education and the needs of women in India.\n\nElizabeth Adelaide Manning was born in 1828. Her mother was Clarissa (born Palmer) and her father was the lawyer James Manning, who helped the Law Amendment Society decide to support changing the law relating to married women's property.\n\nManning was a founder member of the London Froebel Society in 1874 with her cousin Caroline Bishop. Bishop was advising the London School Board on the use of Kindergarten methods and Manning presented a paper on the same subject to the Social Science Association. The following year the Froebel Society became national. She was one of the first students to attend Girton College after she sat the entrance exam. Her stepmother was briefly the first mistress.\n\nIn February 1871 Manning and her stepmother started the London branch of the National Indian Association. Her stepmother died the following month and Manning increasingly became the society's main proponent. She edited its magazine, whose title shifted from \"The Journal of the National Indian Association\" to \"The Indian Magazine\" in 1886, and then in 1891 \"The Indian Magazine and Review\", still under Manning's leadership.\n\nIn 1882 the NIA launched Medical Women for India, an initiative to train women doctors so that they could work in part on caring for women in India. (See Zenana missions.) The NIA also took an interest in students from India who were studying in Britain. Manning created a book of guidance called \"Handbook of information relating to university and professional studies etc. for Indian students in the United Kingdom\". Manning had an open house policy and she cared particularly for students from India. In 1888 Cornelia Sorabji contacted the NIA from India for assistance in completing university education. This letter was championed by Mary Hobhouse and Manning contributed funds, as did Florence Nightingale, Sir William Wedderburn and others. Sorabji arrived in England in 1889 and stayed with Manning. Sorabji was the first woman to complete a law degree at Oxford and she kept contact with the NIA during her career.\n\nIn July 1904, Manning was awarded the Kaisar-i-Hind Medal, first class, by the King for services to the British Raj.\n\nManning died in London in 1905.\n\nManning left bequests to the NIA, The Froebel Society, the Royal Free Hospital and Charles Voysey's unorthodox church in Piccadilly. She left her medal and two thousand pounds (£2,000) to Girton College. A portrait of her (from a photograph) was given by Emily Davies to Girton College, and Manning also gave the college a portrait of her stepmother. In 1911 Indian writer Sukumar Ray wrote home to his parents about the NIA, which he described as \"'MissManning's Association\".\n"}
{"id": "3727164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3727164", "title": "Anti-schooling activism", "text": "Anti-schooling activism\n\nAnti-schooling activism or radical education reform seeks to abolish compulsory schooling laws.\n\nA non-curriculum, non-instructional method of teaching was advocated by Neil Postman and Charles Weingartner in their book \"Teaching as a Subversive Activity\". In inquiry education students are encouraged to ask questions which are meaningful to them, and which do not necessarily have easy answers; teachers are encouraged to avoid giving answers.\n\nMurray N. Rothbard argues that the history of the drive for compulsory schooling is not guided by altruism, but by a desire to coerce the population into a mold desired by \"The Establishment\".\n\nJohn Caldwell Holt asserts that youths should have the right to control and direct their own learning, and that the current compulsory schooling system violates a basic fundamental right of humans: the right to decide what enters our minds. He thinks that freedom of learning is part of freedom of thought, even more fundamental a human right than freedom of speech. He especially states that forced schooling, regardless of whether the student is learning anything whatsoever, or if the student could more effectively learn elsewhere in different ways, is a gross violation of civil liberties (Holt, 1974).\n\nNathaniel Branden adduces government should not be permitted to remove children forcibly from their homes, with or without the parents' consent, and subject the children to educational training and procedures of which the parents may or may not approve. He also claims that citizens should not have their wealth expropriated to support an educational system which they may or may not sanction, and to pay for the education of children who are not their own. He claims this must be true for anyone who understands and is consistently committed to the principle of individual rights. He asserts that the disgracefully low level of education in America today is the predictable result of a state-controlled school system, and that the solution is to bring the field of education into the marketplace.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau wrote in his book \"\" that all children are perfectly designed organisms, ready to learn from their surroundings so as to grow into virtuous adults, but due to the malign influence of corrupt society, they often fail to do so. Rousseau advocated an educational method which consisted of removing the child from society—for example, to a country home—and alternately conditioning him through changes to environment and setting traps and puzzles for him to solve or overcome.\n\nRousseau was unusual in that he recognized and addressed the potential of a problem of legitimation for teaching. He advocated that adults always be truthful with children, and in particular that they never hide the fact that the basis for their authority in teaching was purely one of physical coercion: \"I'm bigger than you.\" Once children reached the age of reason, at about 12, they would be engaged as free individuals in the ongoing process of their own.\n\nIn \"Deschooling Society\", Ivan Illich calls for the disestablishment of schools. He claims that schooling confuses teaching with learning, grades with education, diplomas with competence, attendance with attainment, and, especially, process with substance. He writes that schools do not reward real achievement, only processes. Schools inhibit a person’s will and ability to self-learn, ultimately resulting in psychological impotence. He claims that forced schooling perverts the victims’ natural inclination to grow and learn and replaces it with the demand for instruction. Further, the current model of schooling, replete with credentials, betrays the value of a self-taught individual. Moreover, institutionalized schooling seeks to quantify the unquantifiable – human growth.\n\nIn some cases schooling has been used as a tool for assimilation and a both deliberate and inadvertent tool to change local culture and economics into another form. Opponents of this effect argue it is a human right for a culture to be maintained, and education can violate this human right. Forced schooling has been used to forcibly assimilate Native Americans in the United States and Canada, which some have said is cultural genocide. Many psychologists believe the forced assimilation of native cultures has contributed to their high suicide rates and poverty. Western education encourages Western modes of survival and economic systems, which can be worse and poorer than the existing modes of survival and economic systems of an existing culture.\n\nThere are many factors that can cause schooling to be source of stress and depression in a person's life, which can have long term health effects and mental disorders. School bullying can lead to depression and long term emotional damage. Societal and familial academic pressure and rigorous schooling can also lead to stress, depressions, and suicide. Academic pressure and rigorous schooling has been pointed to as a cause of the high rate of suicide among South Korean adolescents. General boredom from school can also cause stress, and low academic performance can lead to low self esteem. A student's family can suffer from academic related stress as well. One psychologist states:\n\nSome of the proposed purposes of western style compulsory education are to prepare students to join the adult workforce and be financially successful, have students learn useful skills and knowledge, and prepare students to make positive economic or scientific contributions to society. Critics of schooling say it is ineffective at achieving these purposes and goals. In many countries, schools do not keep up with the skills demanded by the workplace, or never have taught relevant skills. Students often feel unprepared for college as well. More schooling does not necessarily correlate with greater economic growth. Alternate forms of schooling, such as the Sudbury model, have been shown to be sufficient for college acceptance and other western cultural goals.\n\nInstead of being a way out of poverty and a way to stay away from crime, for many, school has the opposite effect. Schooling often perpetuates poverty and class divisions. At many schools, students are introduced to gangs, drugs and crime. The school to prison pipeline also converts children into criminals through overly harsh punishments. Punishments from truancy and other school related laws also adversely effect students and parents.\n\n"}
{"id": "20292375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20292375", "title": "Archimedes Foundation", "text": "Archimedes Foundation\n\nThe Archimedes Foundation is an independent body established by the Estonian government in 1997 with the objective to coordinate and implement different international and national programmes and projects in the field of training, education, research, technological development and innovation.\n\nThe website of the Foundation lists the following as its main tasks.\n\nIn the field of R&D\n\nIn the field of Education\n\nIn the field of Youth\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41406167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41406167", "title": "Associate Teacher Learning and Skills", "text": "Associate Teacher Learning and Skills\n\nAssociate Teacher Learning and Skills (ATLS) status is a designation awarded to teachers in the Further Education and Post-Compulsory Education & Training sectors by the Education & Training Foundation (ETF) in the United Kingdom. ATLS may be earned en route to Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status, which is seen as on an equal level to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).\n\nATLS is a professional 'status'.\n\nFrom November 2014, ATLS has been offered by the Education & Training Foundation (ETF) to members of the Society for Education & Training (SET) for a fee of £485. In order to obtain ATLS, the candidate is required to register with SET, undertake Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and complete SET's 'Professional Formation' process.\n\nPrior to November 2014, ATLS was offered by the Institute for Learning (IfL) which was absorbed into the Education & Training Foundation (ETF) on 31 October 2014.\n\nATLS can be obtained en route to QTLS which is seen as on an equal level to QTS. Should an individual want to work as an Associate Teacher in maintained schools, the same way as any other teacher, then they must have ATLS and be a member of the Society for Education & Training (SET).\n\nThe Certificate in Education and Training qualification and its predecessors (e.g. CTLLS) qualify a teacher to attain ATLS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23048630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23048630", "title": "Association of Community College Trustees", "text": "Association of Community College Trustees\n\nThe Association of Community College Trustees (ACCT) is a non-profit educational organization of governing boards, representing more than 6,500 elected and appointed trustees who govern over 1,200 community colleges in the United States.\n\nACCT provides educational services, including annual conventions and seminars, instructional publications, and other board leadership services to community college governing boards.\n\nACCT is headquartered in Washington, D.C.\n\n"}
{"id": "7074615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7074615", "title": "Australia ICOMOS", "text": "Australia ICOMOS\n\nAustralia ICOMOS is the peak cultural heritage conservation body in Australia. It is a branch of the United Nations-sponsored International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), a non-government professional organisation promoting expertise in the conservation of cultural heritage. Its secretariat is based at the Cultural Heritage Centre for Asia and the Pacific at Deakin University.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS was formed in 1976 and is one of over 100 current ICOMOS national committees. ICOMOS was formed in 1965 to advise UNESCO in the assessment of sites proposed for the World Heritage List. Membership of Australia ICOMOS comprises over 650 members, managed by an Executive Committee of 15 people who are elected from the membership. Several Australia ICOMOS members are also represented on various ICOMOS International Scientific Committees, and expert committees and boards in Australia. It plays an important role in co-ordinating advocacy activities to raise the profile of Australia's cultural heritage.\n\nThe first meeting which led to the formation of Australia ICOMOS was in Melbourne on 20 October 1976, and the first ICOMOS conference was in Beechworth in 1978, where they devised a committee to work up a local version of the Venice Charter. The actual ICOMOS meeting where the committee's draft was provisionally endorsed was in the town of Burra in 1979. Australia ICOMOS played the pivotal role in developing and Burra Charter, regarded as the best-practice standard for cultural heritage management in Australia, which has influenced subsequent heritage legislation and conservation guidelines and practices in Australia.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS has also been responsible for producing the Australia State of the Environment Report (SoE), to advise the Minister for Environment on \"...the current condition of the Australian environment, the pressures on it and the drivers of those pressures.\"\n\nAustralia ICOMOS also organises an annual national conference on themes relevant to conservation and heritage in Australia and South East Asia, often on a specific heritage and conservation theme for example on the Australian Capital city's 100th anniversary in 2012.\n\nRecent collaboration between the Chinese government, the Getty Conservation Institute and Australia ICOMOS has seen the export of Australian conservation expertise in developing China Principles, \"...the Middle Kingdom's statement of conservation philosophy and method that is based on Australia's highly regarded Burra Charter\". Australia ICOMOS and the Burra Charter have also been held up as a world standard in Malta.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS publishes \"Historic Environment\" (ISSN 0726-6715), a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering cultural heritage and heritage conservation, first published by the Council for the Historic Environment, from 1980 to 1991, then by Australia ICOMOS and the Council for the Historic Environment in 1992 and by Australia ICOMOS alone from 1993. Editions are often on a specific heritage and conservation theme, for example 'Canberra's 100th anniversary' in 2012. and 'Extreme Heritage' dealing with \"... managing heritage in the face of climatic extremes, natural disasters and military conflicts in tropical, desert, polar and off-world landscapes.\"\n\nThe journal is the pre-eminent publication on heritage conservation in Australia, is allied to the international organisation ICOMOS, it is cited extensively in conservation literature, records the major heritage conferences in Australia, and has been in publication for over 30 years. The journal aims to bring together \"… dynamic, critical interdisciplinary research in the field of cultural heritage and heritage conservation.\" The journal has an editorial committee of five with lead editor Dr Tim Winter in 2013. It was ranked ‘A’ by the Excellence in Research for Australia classification scheme.\n\nAccessed on-line via State Library of New South Wales, and indexed through various index services including RMIT's Australian Heritage Bibliography, and the Australian Public Affairs Information Service (APAIS). It is held in over 80 libraries worldwide including all of the Australian state libraries and major Australian and New Zealand university libraries. and was ranked ‘A’ by the Australian Research Council Excellence in Research for Australia classification scheme. Australia ICOMOS also publishes the \"Australia ICOMOS newsletter\" (ISSN 0155-3534) on a regular basis.\n\nAustralia ICOMOS provides a mentoring program for cultural heritage students as well as architectural students who have completed subjects in architectural conservation and the Australia ICOMOS Victorian Scholarships. Australia ICOMOS projects extend to providing expertise and fund-raising for restoration projects in the wider Asia and Pacific region, including the \"Streetwise Asia\" School Restoration Project in the Philippines. Australia ICOMOS, and in particular Dr Richard Mackay, have been involved in conservation management advice for the World Heritage Listing of Ankor Wat in Cambodia for many years.\n\n"}
{"id": "31974220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31974220", "title": "Automated Weather Source", "text": "Automated Weather Source\n\nAutomated Weather Source (AWS) was a partnership and later a corporation founded in 1992 by James Michael “Mike” Bailey and Charles “Topper” Shutt of Montgomery County, Maryland, whose purpose was to create a network of weather stations located at public schools and recreational facilities throughout the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States.\n\nThe weather data generated was accessed by dialup modem and included wind speed, wind direction, barometric pressure, temperature, and rainfall totals, along with daily minimum and maximum values of each. The network of primarily school-based weather stations became the first to generate real-time meteorological data for use on broadcast television when the AWS network was first referenced on September 11, 1992 during the nightly newscast of WUSA-TV (Channel 9) in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe AWS concept encouraged academic and recreational institutions to increase localized community awareness by soliciting donors to help them join the network. A computer and software interfaced to the weather station, provided access to each site, and enabled the user to download near real-time and archived surface weather observations. The meteorological data were then used in the classroom as part of multiple curricula. The real time data was shared with the general public on broadcast media and provided to the National Weather Service (NWS) for internal use and eventual integration into AFOS (Automation of Field Operations and Services), the computer system in place at the time linking NWS offices for the transmission of weather data now known as AWIPS. Headquartered in Darnestown, Maryland, the Automated Weather Source partnership formed in 1992 was incorporated in January 1994. Implementations of AWS’ core concept, often referred to as “SchoolNet” or “WeatherNet,” then began to expand into many other major US television markets over the course of the 1990s.\n\nPrior to the formation of the AWS partnership formed in 1992 by founders Bailey and Shutt, Bailey, an amateur weather enthusiast, worked with meteorologist Andrew Stern, then lead forecaster at the Sterling, Virginia National Weather Service forecast office. Stern and Bailey initially compiled code to access and download observations via dialup phone modem from a HeathKit 5001 weather station. In an effort to access the data more efficiently, Bailey acquired a weather station produced by Texas Weather Instruments (TWI) that allowed direct access to the weather data. The TWI instrument, known as a Weather Report, became one of the first sources for local, hourly weather observations by a non-standard weather data platform to be accessed by the National Weather Service (NWS) and ingested into AFOS in the Washington, D.C. area.\n\nAs a NWS storm spotter, and having previously worked as an intern and weather watcher for WRC-TV, Bailey recognized the importance of localized weather data for on-air TV use. He provided Shutt with access to the weather data engine and began discussions on how and where other similar weather stations might be deployed and used in nightly local weather broadcasts. Locations considered included ski resorts and parks. Shutt suggested placement at schools, as they were at the time beginning to acquire computers and dedicated phone lines for access to remote data sources. Subsequently, Shutt and Bailey formed the Automated Weather Source Partnership, funding the purchase and donation of three weather stations to Washington-area schools to seed what became the nation’s first public school network of weather stations to generate weather data for use on broadcast TV at WUSA-TV. On September 11, 1992, Automated Weather Source Network became an on-air reality and its use quickly grew in the nation’s 8th largest TV market DMA.\n\nWithin a year Montgomery, Fairfax, Howard and Loudoun County Public Schools were the first of the local technology and transportation coordinators that joined the AWS network as it grew to over thirty sites in the Washington area. The Automated Weather Source Network segment was self-promoting on air and became a community outreach tool for WUSA-TV 9. Wisp Resort, in Garrett County, Maryland, was the first ski area to purchase a unit and dedicate a phone line for access. Other Mid-Atlantic ski resorts followed suit as “Ski-net” evolved. Stevenson shelters were built and used to house the outdoor sensors on the roofs of existing sites that appeared in the Automated Weather Source Network television segment. The AWS network had grown to 30 sites as the data sets generated were also used to provide near real-time observations from school rooftops. AWS agreed to provide NWS access to the data from the network on an hourly basis for integration into the AFOS computer system.\nData from each AWS station was compiled and transcribed in ASCII format . A typical observation would output to file as follows:\n\n5:15 07/24/90 SSE 04 MPH 052F 069F 078F 099% 30.04R 00.19”D 01.38”M 11.78”T\n\nThe code written to interpret the TWI observation was ingested into AFOS, a system that has since transitioned to AWIPS, a more modern interface used to interpret the same meteorological data. An early data set example read as follows, with a four-letter identifier followed by city, state and county:\n\nDTWN DARNESTOWN MD MG 5:15 07/24/90 SSE 04 MPH 052F 069F 072F 099% 30.04R 00.19”D 01.38”M 11.78”T\n\nThe above data set, as a weather observation, would read as follows: “At 5:15 A.M. on July 24, 1990, the temperature at the Darnestown AWS site in Montgomery County, Maryland was 52° Fahrenheit, with 99% relative humidity and a wind from the south-southeast at four miles per hour.”\n\nPrior to the rapid growth of the Internet in 1992, primary media sources included print, radio, and broadcast TV. Computer science had just begun its integration into K-12 schools in major metropolitan areas. The use of computers and dial-up modems with access to digitized resources was in its infancy at the time of AWS’ founding. A weather station as an engine that provided real-world data could then be integrated into each area of school curricula. Promoting such a concept by recognizing specific schools or locations on broadcast TV helped instill local civic pride. The near real-time observations used by TV broadcast media made viewers more aware of the weather conditions where they worked and lived. Television networks’ use of the meteorological observations encouraged the growth of the AWS concept and the participation of local businesses in the growing effort to donate resources to help facilitate this cause.\n\nAs the Washington, D.C. metro area school systems bought into the concept, AWS began working on a way to better archive and manipulate the data generated for use as a teaching tool for computer science, mathematics, geography, and science. Students would log observations and then plot them on a local map, and a series of manually logged observations would be graphed as well. Eventually, an AWS subcontractor wrote a program that would automatically access the existing sites and download data for current observations as well as limited historical data. The program, which ran on desktop computers outfitted with 386 processors, then created graphs of historical data.\n\nAWS’ founders and employees chose school rooftops to place their weather stations because of such locations’ accessibility, security, proximity to electrical power and ease of maintenance. The standard location for most sensor suites at that time was at airports, in the middle of large fields, or between runways with no physical obstructions that might disturb the immediate environment. Meteorologists both in the NWS and the private sector expressed concern that AWS sites might be subject to a number of confounds, such as the skewing of wind direction by rooftop structures, the heat retained on dark rooftop surfaces, and the hot exhaust from rooftop air conditioning units, all of which were thought to cause inaccuracies in the data.\n\nDespite these concerns, meteorologists used AWS data to assist in the study of various weather phenomena, including the heat island effect. One such study, presented to the American Meteorological Society by Davey \"et al.\" of Colorado State University, cited examples and placement of multiple AWS network sites.\nEach mesonet site was subject to environmental factors which differed from the official configuration of an NWS-certified ASOS weather station. As rooftop weather station configurations grew more widely available, however, rooftop observations became an accepted measure of meteorological data dissemination in the scientific community, with an understanding that the sites were considered nonstandard configurations. Armed with the metadata that highlighted the biases in rooftop observations, meteorologists used rooftop data in their forecasts at their own professional discretion.\n\nThe WUSA-TV Automated Weather Source Network on-air segment soon attracted the attention of Bill Mengel, then founder and owner of EAI Corporation. EAI products included the manufacturing of air sensors for commercial and military use. Mengel sent then-EAI employee Robert “Bob” Marshall to meet with AWS founders Shutt and Bailey to discuss the possibility of manufacturing a more sophisticated weather station. EAI’s background in air monitoring equipment, along with the engineering background of Marshall and Christopher Sloop, an engineer and computer programmer at EAI, brought a valuable skill set to the partnership. The discussions led to the development of a prototype of the first AWS-manufactured weather station and data display unit as well as the development of refined software needed to access and utilize the AWS network in schools and on-the-air.\n\nWithin 4 months of partnering with Mengel and EAI, the Automated Weather Source Partnership converted to a corporation . Its principal owners included Topper Shutt, Mike Bailey, Bill Mengel, Bob Marshall and Chris Sloop. Its main office was located in Germantown, Maryland. The hardware and software development took place in both Germantown and Abingdon, Maryland.\n"}
{"id": "39924685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39924685", "title": "Blackboard Inc.", "text": "Blackboard Inc.\n\nBlackboard Inc. is an educational technology company with corporate headquarters in Washington, D.C.. It is known for Blackboard Learn, a learning management system.\n\nThe company's CEO is William L. Ballhaus, formerly president and CEO of SRA International, who was also named chairman and president on January 4, 2016, following the resignation of Jay Bhatt, who had led Blackboard since October 2012. The firm provides education, mobile, communication, and commerce software and related services to clients including education providers, corporations and government organizations. The software consists of seven platforms called Learn, Transact, Engage, Connect, Mobile, Collaborate and Analytics that are offered as bundled software. The firm was founded by Stephen Gilfus, Daniel Cane, Michael Chasen and Matthew Pittinsky through a business combination in 1997, and became a public company in 2004. It operated publicly until it was purchased by Providence Equity Partners in 2011. , its software and services are used by approximately 17,000 schools and organizations in 100 countries. Seventy-five percent of US colleges and universities and more than half of K–12 districts in the United States use its products and services. According to Times Higher Education Reputation Ranking, 80 percent of the world's top academic institutions are said to use Blackboard tools.\n\nCourseInfo was founded in late 1996 as a cutting edge software provider founded by Cornell University students Stephen Gilfus and Daniel Cane. Gilfus wrote the business plan for CourseInfo and its Interactive Learning Network product while an undergraduate at Cornell. CourseInfo (a dorm room start up) with Gilfus as the business lead and Cane as the lead developer had developed an innovative new platform for internet and networked learning called a \"Course Management System\" by Gilfus. \n\nBlackboard LLC. was founded in 1997 by Michael Chasen and Matthew Pittinsky and began as a consulting firm contracting to the non-profit IMS Global Learning Consortium developing a prototype for online learning and thinking through online learning standardization. Chasen and Pittinsky started Blackboard after leaving KPMG Consulting where they both had worked as part of the company's higher education practice.\n\nIn 1998, after Cane met Chasen at a conference on adaptive learning, Gilfus and Cane decided to merge CourseInfo LLC. with Chasen and Pittinky's Blackboard LLC. company in order to raise money and scale the business. The combined company became a corporation known as Blackboard Inc. They renamed the CourseInfo platform built by the Cornell team to Blackboard's CourseInfo; the CourseInfo brand was dropped in 2000. As an extension of CourseInfo's original two weeks for free courses, the company provided a hosted version \"CourseSites\" for teachers to try out for free. After having raised its seed round, the new company made a profit in its first year, and its sales in 1998 approached US$1 million. Other early products included Blackboard Classroom and Blackboard Campus both derivatives of the original platform. In 2000, Blackboard acquired iCollege/College Enterprises Inc.'s campus card, introducing commerce capability to Blackboard's portfolio.\n\nBy 2006, the firm's learning platform software was used in more than 40% of U.S. college campuses and the company had gained a significant worldwide market share. This expansion was initially funded through venture capital from a number of investors, including Pearson PLC, Dell, AOL, The Carlyle Group and Novak Biddle Venture Partners. At this time the company renamed its \"Course Management System\" product category into the \"Learning Management Systems\" category in order to sell to the corporate space.\n\nOverseas expansion began in the early 2000s, growing to include Asia, Australia and Europe. Blackboard had its initial public offering (IPO) in June 2004 under the stock market ticker BBBB. Sale of shares in the initial public offering raised an estimated $70 million for the company, making it the second-most successful technology IPO of that year.\n\nIn 2006, Blackboard completed the acquisition of its largest competitor, WebCT Inc, enlarging its share of the higher education market to between 65 and 75 percent. Over the next five years, the company invested in a series of new products and acquisitions, including Blackboard Xythos, Blackboard Connect, Blackboard Mobile, Blackboard Collaborate, and Blackboard Analytics., thus expanding beyond the learning management system market.\n\nBy 2011, the firm's products were used by over half of colleges and universities in the US. On July 1, 2011, Blackboard agreed to a $1.64 billion buyout by an investor group led by Providence Equity Partners, completed on October 4, 2011. Following the sale, Providence Equity Partners merged Edline, its K-12 learning system, with Blackboard. Edline was later renamed Blackboard Engage.\n\nAccording to a TechCrunch article from 2012, despite its success, Blackboard had become \"one of the most disliked — even detested — companies in education.\" In December 2011, \"Fast Company\" reported that 93% of respondents to the Amplicate customer opinion survey \"hate\" the company.\n\nIn September 2017, Blackboard announced its expansion to the Indian Educational Market, and it was said to partner with 50 educational institutions.\n\nJay Bhatt succeeded Chasen as CEO of the company in October 2012. Bhatt came to the company after serving as the CEO of Progress Software. As CEO of Blackboard, Bhatt combined the company's product portfolio into offerings called solutions. He also restructured the company by market (including North America and International) rather than by product, and consolidated product development and management under new executives. It was reported in July 2014 that approximately 500 of Blackboard's 3,000 employees were hired between 2013 and 2014.\n\nThe company's key focuses under Bhatt's leadership have been: student-driven learning solutions; investing in Blackboard Learn, the company's core product; integrating the company’s portfolio of products; and building education service offerings, such as online program management. In 2013, the company introduced a platform to host massive open online courses called MOOCs, and it introduced student profiles and databases in 2014. Bhatt also changed the company's strategy for acquiring new businesses. Rather than purchasing competitors, Bhatt has stated he prefers to acquire companies based on their innovations.\n\nIn July 2014, Bhatt announced multiple product changes, including a redesign of Blackboard's UX to an interface resembling iOS, expanding the deployment options of Blackboard Learn to include public cloud, and improvements to Blackboard's mobile app.\n\n, Blackboard serves approximately 17,000 schools and organizations. It holds the highest share of the education market with 75 percent of colleges and universities and more than half of K-12 districts in the US using its products and services.\n\n, Blackboard had acquired MyEdu, Perceptis, and CardSmith, and Requestec under Bhatt's leadership. The acquisitions reflected Bhatt's new acquisition strategy of making investments that serve students and will lead to innovations in Blackboard's core teaching and learning products.\n\nBlackboard has used the acquisition of other companies as a strategy to both limit competitors and enter new markets. Between 2006 and 2012, the company spent more than $500 million on acquisitions.\n\nCompeting learning management platforms that were acquired by Blackboard in order to absorb their users and reduce competition include: George Washington University's course management software, Prometheus, in 2002; and WebCT Inc., its largest rival in the education software industry, in 2005. According to market research company Eduventures, the merger with WebCT increased the firm's share of the higher-education market to between 65 and 75 percent. In 2009, the acquisition of ANGEL Learning, an education software developer, increased Blackboard's client base to nearly 6,000 educational institutions, companies and government agencies.\n\nThe company has also made acquisitions in order to expand its product base with other education-related services and software. Such acquisitions include: NTI Group in 2008, which became the basis for Blackboard Connect; providers of online and mobile collaboration tools, Wimba, Inc. and Elluminate, Inc. in 2010, to form Blackboard Collaborate; iStrategy in December 2010, which led to the creation of Blackboard Analytics; Presidium Inc. in 2011, which developed into Blackboard Student Services. Following the company's merger with Edline in 2011, Edline was later renamed Blackboard Engage. In March 2012, Blackboard acquired Moodlerooms Inc. and NetSpot of Adelaide, Australia, which then became the basis of Blackboard's Open Source Services division.\n\nFrom January 2014 to April 2015, Blackboard acquired nine companies, including: MyEdu, an Austin-based online education company; Perceptis, a provider of help desk and administrative services; CardSmith, a company that offered cards for student ID and on-campus payments; Requestec, a provider of technology for VoIP, video conferencing and instant messaging; and Schoolwires, a company that specialized in building school websites.\n\nIn August 2015, Blackboard acquired Colombia-based Nivel7, possibly the largest Moodle services provider in Latin America.\n\nBlackboard acquired Sequoia Retail Systems in May 2016.\n\nThough previously a public company, following its 2011 buyout by Providence Equity Partners Blackboard now operates as a private company. The company's headquarters are in Washington, D.C. and it has offices in Asia, Australia, Europe and in several locations in North America.\n\nThe initial product to be offered by the company was its course management software, first available in 1998. The latest version, Blackboard Learn 9.1, was released in April 2010. This is a learning management system that provides a learning system for course delivery and management for institutions; a community and portal system for communication; a content management system for centralized control over course content; and a system to record and analyze student assessment results.\n\nThough the software is proprietary, developers are able to extend the functionality of the system, and create customized course management and delivery by developing software and applications known as Building Blocks, created by Gilfus and Pittinsky, \n\nIn 2012, TechCrunch writer Rip Empson commented that Blackboard's focus on acquisitions prevented the company from fully focusing on their software products, which has led to the continual introduction of additional features, known as feature creep.\n\nThe company's products' user interfaces became \"infamous as a part of academic life that was to be endured, not enjoyed\" according to TechCrunch writer Rip Empson in 2014. According to educational technology company EdSurge, , the company was in the process of updating its learning management system and the user interface within it, noting that navigation of the latter had been a cause of \"dismay\" for long-time users.\n\nBlackboard Collaborate was created in July 2010 and is used by K-12 schools and higher education institutions for professional development and distance learning. It is written in Java. The platform is also used by businesses for distance learning and for conferencing.\n\nThe company launched Blackboard Mobile in 2009 after having acquired TerriblyClever. The platform provides students with access to teaching and learning content and campus information through mobile applications for iOS, Android, BlackBerry and WebOS devices. Blackboard Mobile allows students to both access course materials, check grades, and participate in discussions, and to access information about campus life and services.\n\nThe company began providing its Blackboard Connect service in 2008, for use by school districts and higher education institutions to send out mass phone, text and e-mail notifications. The service can be used for routine alerts and notifications, academic or instructor notifications, or by school districts and communities to share time-sensitive information, such as in the case of natural disasters and campus emergencies.\n\nBlackboard Transact, formerly Blackboard Commerce Suite, is transaction processing system tied to university ID cards, which can be used for meal plans, vending machines and laundry services, and an e-commerce front end for the transaction system. The Transact system is NFC-compatible and its ID cards use contactless technology. Blackboard Transact also includes a program for off-campus vendors that allow students to pay for goods using their college's campus card.\n\nBlackboard Analytics was developed after the company acquired iStrategy, a data analysis firm, in December 2010. The Blackboard Analytics platform is a system for data warehousing and analysis, with applications for educational institutions to analyze student numbers, class scheduling, and financial information. The platform was created as a business intelligence tool specifically for higher education institutions and uses data from colleges' student information, human resources and financial information systems.\n\nBlackboard's services include: managed hosting, platform consulting, enterprise consulting, online program management, training and student services. The firm's managed hosting organization provides web hosting to support clients' IT infrastructure and online learning. The company also provides services through its strategic consulting group, which offers varying degrees of consulting and training. Its services include customized mobile services for clients, and training and consulting for its software implementation and use.\n\nBlackboard Student Services provides management services for student admissions and enrollment, financial aid, and student accounts and retention. It also provides IT and helpdesk support to students and faculty for learning management systems.\n\nThe United States Patent and Trademark Office granted the company for \"Internet-based education support system and methods\" in January 2006. The patent established Blackboard's claims to the concept of connecting together web-based tools to create an interconnected university-wide course management system. The firm announced the patent on July 26, 2006, and on the same day it filed a patent infringement lawsuit against rival education software company Desire2Learn Inc. According to news reports, the awarding of the patent and the lawsuit against Desire2Learn led to concerns about patentability in the electronic learning community.\n\nA website, BoycottBlackboard.org, was set up 8-2-2006 by Chris Hambly based on a WHOIS Search, calling for a boycott of the company's products and offering an online petition to be signed by those who opposed the patent. In addition, some critics of the patent and lawsuit created a Wikipedia entry for the history of virtual learning environments to document existing examples of course management software. The Software Freedom Law Center filed a request with the U.S. Patent Office to re-examine Blackboard's patent in November 2006, and in January 2007 the request was approved on the basis of prior art, cited by the Center, raising \"substantial\" questions. To address the concerns raised within the education software and academic communities, in February 2007, the firm announced that it had made a pledge to not assert its patent rights against open-source and non-profit software developers.\n\nIn February 2008, a federal jury in Texas ruled in favor of Blackboard Inc. in its patent infringement suit against Desire2Learn, finding the rival company liable for infringing on its patent. One month later, in March 2008, the U.S. Patent Office issued a preliminary decision following its re-examination of Blackboard's patent application, which rejected the 44 claims made by the company. The Patent Office stated that it would give a final decision following a review of the patent.\n\nFollowing the ruling by the federal jury in February 2008, later that year Desire2Learn lodged an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. A ruling was made by the Court of Appeals on July 27, 2009 that the 38 patent claims made by Blackboard in its suit against Desire2Learn were invalid. The dispute was resolved, when Blackboard and Desire2Learn announced on December 15, 2009 that each company was settling all ongoing litigation between them and had made a cross-licensing agreement. In April 2010, the firm abandoned patent 6,988,138, and in November that year the company's legal counsel announced the patent's \"official termination\" and stated that Blackboard had ended its appeals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7553818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7553818", "title": "Camara (social enterprise)", "text": "Camara (social enterprise)\n\nCamara is a social enterprise that sends refurbished computers and provides digital literacy training to schools and other educational institutions in Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Zambia, Uganda, Lesotho, Tanzania, Jamaica, and Haiti. \n\nCamara was founded in 2005 by Cormac Lynch, a former engineer and investment banker, who after a visit to Ethiopia saw an opportunity to use technology to enhance education in some of the world's most disadvantaged communities. Lynch heard from schools that computers were what were needed most. On his return to Dublin he saw a skip-load of discarded PCs, when an idea struck, which would see Camara give end of life computers a new lease of life and benefit school children in disadvantaged communities.\n\nThe name 'Camara' comes from a west African Bantu dialect and means 'teacher' or 'one who teaches with experience'. Many people read it as 'Camera' and pronounce it as such, however the correct pronunciation is . The organisation's logo, the ANANSE NTONTAN (\"spider's web\"), comes from the adinkra symbols found in Ghana and historically used by the Asante tribe on cloth, walls and in pottery.\n\nNinth President of Ireland Michael D. Higgins is one of the organisation's patrons, as is British film producer and educator Lord David Puttnam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17671951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17671951", "title": "David B. Wexler", "text": "David B. Wexler\n\nDavid B. Wexler is a Professor of Law at the University of Puerto Rico in San Juan, Puerto Rico, a Distinguished Research Professor of Law Emeritus at the James E. Rogers College of Law, Tucson, Arizona, and an Honorary President of the International Society for Therapeutic Jurisprudence.\n\nWexler is credited with first discussing the therapeutic jurisprudence perspective in 1987, and along with Bruce Winick is recognized as one of the two \"leading scholars in this field.\" He is a consultant on therapeutic jurisprudence to the National Judicial Institute of Canada, and has served as a Fulbright Senior Specialist. One author characterizes Wexler's jurisprudence as radical cenrist in orientation. Constance Backhouse, a leading legal historian from Canada, has published a biography of Wexler and his work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40056699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40056699", "title": "Department of Political Science Soochow University (Taiwan)", "text": "Department of Political Science Soochow University (Taiwan)\n\nThe Department of Political Science of Soochow University is one of the oldest departement of the university. This departement exists since 1954, when Soochow University was reestablished in Taiwan.\n\nThe Department of Political Science of Soochow University has over 50 years of history, being one of the four departments that existed during the reestablishment of the university in Taiwan in 1954. The Master program of the department was established in 1991; followed by the Doctoral program in 1998.\n\nIn 2003, in a very rigorous review held by Soochow University, the Department of Political Science was evaluated excellent among the inspectors from the Evaluation and Review Committee of academic fields. The department is also awarded with financial support to help to fund many teaching and research activities and projects with unique features.\nThe Department has also been funded by the Ministry of Education under the Teaching Excellence Projects. Since 2009, Shiow-Duan Hawang is the director of the department.\n\nThe teaching program is characterized by a multidisciplinary approach of history of political thought, Comparative Government and Politics, international relations and public administration.\nThe international exchanges and various academic activities and lectures for teachers and students play an important role in this department.\n\nThe teaching programs of the department are particularly oriented on international issues.\nIn addition to basic trainings in political science, the departement offers diversified curriculum and programs open to international students.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2008, teachers of the Department have conducted 90 research projects granted by the government and its National Science Council.\n\nSince 2000, the Department of Political Science has been organized the Research Center, the Center for Globalization Studies, the Center for E.U Studies, the Centre for Parliamentary Research, the Center for U.N, Studies and the Metropolitan Governance Study Center and the Workshop of Human Rights and Democracy.\n\nWith its first issue released in 1991, the Soochow Journal of Political Science has continued to develop its reputation. Since the journal changed to a quarterly publication in September 2004, the Soochow Journal of Political Science has been included in the TSSCI (Taiwan Social Science Citation Index).\n\nThe contributions published in the journal come from a wide range of research related to the most diverse areas.\nMany professors, researchers, teachers or researchers in political science from Soochow University, as elsewhere, had contributed to the writing of this journal.\n\nThe departement includes scholars such as Shiow-Duan Hawang, Bih-Rong Liu, Wen-Cheng Wu, Hao-Yu Wang, Ya-Tang Hsu, Chen-Yu Hsieh, Chen-Kuo Hsu, Mab Huang, Chih-Cheng Lo, Li-Khan Chen, Huei-Huang Wang, Shu-Pin Liu, Hsiu-Chuan Tsai, Jui-Chi Chen, Chun-Hung Chen, Chih-Chung Wu, Yung-Ming Hsu, Chiung-Chu Lin, Yun-Chu Tsai, Yueh-Chu Lin and Ju-Dar Shen.\n\n"}
{"id": "27952567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27952567", "title": "Direction Nationale de l'Alphabétisation Fonctionelle et de la Linguistique Appliquée", "text": "Direction Nationale de l'Alphabétisation Fonctionelle et de la Linguistique Appliquée\n\nDirection nationale de l'alphabétisation fonctionelle et de la linguistique appliquée (or DNAFLA, English: National Directorate of Functional Literacy and Applied Linguistics) is the national literacy agency in Mali. Among other things, it has established a standard for the Tuareg Latin alphabet.\n\n"}
{"id": "932453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932453", "title": "Dirk Jan Struik", "text": "Dirk Jan Struik\n\nDirk Jan Struik (September 30, 1894 – October 21, 2000) was a Dutch born American (since 1934) mathematician, historian of mathematics and Marxian theoretician who spent most of his life in the U.S. \n\nDirk Jan Struik was born in 1894 in Rotterdam, Netherlands, as a teacher's son. He attended the Hogereburgerschool (HBS) over there. It was in this school that he was first introduced to left-wing politics and socialism by one of his teachers, called Mister van Dam.\n\nIn 1912 Struik entered the University of Leiden, where he showed great interest in mathematics and physics, influenced by the eminent professors Paul Ehrenfest and Hendrik Lorentz.\n\nIn 1917 he worked as a high school mathematics teacher for a while, after which he worked as a research assistant for J.A. Schouten. It was during this period that he developed his doctoral dissertation, \"The Application of Tensor Methods to Riemannian Manifolds.\"\n\nIn 1922 Struik obtained his doctorate in mathematics from University of Leiden. He was appointed to a teaching position at University of Utrecht in 1923. The same year he married Saly Ruth Ramler, a Czech mathematician with a doctorate from the Charles University of Prague. \n\nIn 1924, funded by a Rockefeller fellowship, Struik traveled to Rome to collaborate with the Italian mathematician Tullio Levi-Civita. It was in Rome that Struik first developed a keen interest in the history of mathematics. In 1925, thanks to an extension of his fellowship, Struik went to Göttingen to work with Richard Courant compiling Felix Klein's lectures on the history of 19th-century mathematics. He also started researching Renaissance mathematics at this time.\n\nIn 1926 Struik was offered positions both at the Moscow State University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He decided to accept the latter, where he spent the rest of his academic career. He collaborated with Norbert Wiener on differential geometry, while continuing his research on the history of mathematics. He was made full professor at MIT in 1940.\n\nStruik was a steadfast Marxist. Having joined the Communist Party of the Netherlands in 1919, he remained a Party member his entire life. When asked, upon the occasion of his 100th birthday, how he managed to pen peer-reviewed journal articles at such an advanced age, Struik replied blithely that he had the \"3Ms\" a man needs to sustain himself: Marriage (his wife, Saly Ruth Ramler, was not alive anymore though when he turned one hundred in 1994), Mathematics and Marxism. \n\nIt is therefore not surprising that Dirk suffered persecution during the McCarthyite era. He was accused of being a Soviet spy, a charge he vehemently denied. Invoking the First and Fifth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution, he refused to answer any of the 200 questions put forward to him during the HUAC hearing. He was suspended from teaching for five years (with full salary) by MIT in the 1950s. Struik was re-instated in 1956. He retired from MIT in 1960.\n\nAside from purely academic work, Struik also helped found the Journal of Science and Society, a Marxian journal on the history, sociology and development of science.\n\nIn 1950 Struik published his \"Lectures on Classical Differential Geometry\", which gained praise from Ian R. Porteous:\n\nStruik's other major works include such classics as \"A Concise History of Mathematics\" (1948), \"Yankee Science in the Making\", \"The Birth of the Communist Manifesto\", and \"A Source Book in Mathematics, 1200–1800\", all of which are considered standard textbooks or references.\n\nStruik died October 21, 2000, exactly three weeks after celebrating his 106th birthday.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36970609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36970609", "title": "EdSurge", "text": "EdSurge\n\nEdSurge Inc. is an educational technology company that publishes newsletters and operates databases used by venture capitalists, teachers, school administrators and others. In May 2018, EdSurge was identified by the Brookings Institution as one of the world's 16 leading \"innovation spotters\" in education. These organizations \"are searching the globe to find, highlight, and sometimes support education innovations,\" Brookings wrote.\n\nEdSurge was founded in 2011 by Elizabeth Corcoran, a former executive editor of Forbes and a former technology reporter for The Washington Post, by Nick Punt, a former vice president at Inigral, a private social network for higher education, by Matt Bowman, a former Catholic school teacher, and by Agustin Vilaseca. \nAs of December 2015, the company had raised $5.6 million in funding from investors including GSV Capital, NewSchools Venture Fund, Reach Capital, Catamount Ventures, 1776.vc, the Omidyar Network, the Women's Venture Capital Fund, LearnCapital. and many angels. EdSurge’s initial funding in 2012 was led by The Washington Post Company and NewSchools Venture Fund, along with angel investors including Allen & Company’s Nancy Peretsman and Silicon Valley entrepreneur Judith Estrin.\n\nEdSurge's commentary regularly appears in media outlets such as \"Fast Company\". EdSurge's managing editor, Tony Wan, was named in 2014 to Forbes magazine's \"30 Under 30\" list, and EdSurge's senior editor, Mary Jo Madda, was named to the 2016 Forbes list, which highlights top achievers under age 30.\n"}
{"id": "1958099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1958099", "title": "Education Resources Information Center", "text": "Education Resources Information Center\n\nThe Education Resources Information Center (ERIC) is an online digital library of education research and information. ERIC is sponsored by the Institute of Education Sciences of the United States Department of Education.\n\nThe mission of ERIC is to provide a comprehensive, easy-to-use, searchable, Internet-based bibliographic and full-text database of education research and information for educators, researchers, and the general public. Education research and information are essential to improving teaching, learning, and educational decision-making.\n\nERIC provides access to 1.5 million bibliographic records (citations, abstracts, and other pertinent data) of journal articles and other education-related materials, with hundreds of new records added every week. A key component of ERIC is its collection of grey literature in education, which is largely available in full text in Adobe PDF format. Approximately one quarter of the complete ERIC Collection is available in full text. Materials with no full text available (primarily journal articles) can often be accessed using links to publisher websites and/or library holdings. ERIC usually includes education related articles in its database. Sample articles include \"The Economic, Social and Administrative Pharmacy (ESAP) Discipline in US Schools and Colleges of Pharmacy\", \"Aesthetics in Young Children's Lives: From Music Technology Curriculum Perspective \", and \"Digital Game's Impacts on Students' Learning Effectiveness of Correct Medication \". \n\nThe ERIC Collection, begun in 1966, contains records for a variety of publication types, including: \n\nERIC provides the public with a centralized Web site for searching the ERIC collection and submitting materials to be considered for inclusion in the collection. Users can also access the collection through commercial database vendors, statewide and institutional networks, and Internet search engines. To help users find the information they are seeking, ERIC produces a controlled vocabulary, the Thesaurus of ERIC Descriptors. This is a carefully selected list of education-related words and phrases used to tag materials by subject and make them easier to retrieve through a search.\n\nPrior to January 2004, the ERIC network consisted of sixteen subject-specific clearinghouses, various adjunct and affiliate clearinghouses, and three support components. The program was consolidated into a single entity, with upgraded systems, and paper-based processes converted to electronic, thus streamlining operations and speeding delivery of content.\n\n"}
{"id": "8085277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8085277", "title": "Education and Inspections Act 2006", "text": "Education and Inspections Act 2006\n\nThe Education and Inspections Act 2006 (c 40) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. According to the government the Act \"is intended to represent a major step forward in the Government’s aim of ensuring that all children in all schools get the education they need to enable them to fulfil their potential\".\n\nIn October 2005, the DfES published the White Paper \"Higher Standards, Better Schools for All — More Choice for Parents and Pupils\". It set out plans to \"\"radically improve the system\". The blurb distributed with it established a number of key areas that the White Paper was intended to address:\n\n\nOne of the most controversial elements in the White Paper was the proposal to establish a new breed of school called a Trust school. The White Paper introduced a new term to the educational taxonomy when it explained how schools would \"acquire a Trust\". It was noted that there was a remarkable similarity between Trust schools and voluntary aided schools/Foundation schools. The proposals allowed for each Trust school to decide its own governance model from either the VA or Foundation model. Local authority assets - buildings and land - would be transferred to trust ownership, and the trust would take on the responsibility for the employment of all the school staff.\n\nThe governance model of VA Schools would allow the Trust to directly appoint more than half of the governors allowing it to effectively control the governing body. Such a model would also reduce the number of elected Parent governors. To tackle this obvious reduction in \"parent power\" it was proposed that a new consultative body - \"a Parents’ Council to ensure that parents have a strong voice in decisions about the way the school is run\" - although it was stressed that statutory guidance on this would be produced at some yet unspecified later stage. This notion effectively killed any suggestion that Kelly could be seen as a champion of parents.\n\nThe Trusts were intended to be non-profit making and to have charitable status, although they could be formed by commercial enterprises. In fact one of the early DfES-hosted seminars on the establishment of Trusts included representatives from Microsoft and KPMG. But it was their ability to set their own admission arrangements that generated the most criticism.\n\nThe white paper was not received with universal acclaim. A large number of Labour backbenchers, as well as numerous Labour luminaries like Neil Kinnock and former Education Secretary Estelle Morris, made known their opposition to the proposals and published an alternative white paper. Faced with such a rebellion, the government initially stressed that it would \"press on\" with the reforms. Tory leader David Cameron then announced that these reforms were in line with Tory policies and that he would support the bill if presented in the proposed form. The government were faced with the prospect of pushing through their reforms only with opposition support and in the face of increased resistance from its own supporters.\n\nFollowing a report by the Education Select Committee - which was in itself controversial - Ruth Kelly finally wrote to the committee chairman Barry Sheerman in February 2006, outlining how the bill would look when presented to parliament and stressing how it would accommodate many of the fears expressed in the committee's report. This was reported as the government backtracking on many key issues although it stressed that it was not a climbdown.\n\nOn 28 February 2006, the bill was finally published. It contained much of what had been trailed, although most notable by its absence was any mention of \"Trust school\"\". In reality, Foundation and Voluntary Aided schools will pick up the mantle of \"Trust school\".\n\nThe Act is designed to give greater freedoms to schools, including the possibility of:\n\nOther important provisions include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23918703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23918703", "title": "Eleanor Catton", "text": "Eleanor Catton\n\nEleanor Catton (born 24 September 1985) is a Canadian-born New Zealand author. Her second novel, \"The Luminaries\", won the 2013 Man Booker Prize. In January 2015, she generated controversy in New Zealand when she made comments in an interview in India in which she was critical of \"neo-liberal, profit-obsessed, very shallow, very money-hungry politicians who do not care about culture.\"\n\nCatton was born in Canada where her American-born New Zealander father was a graduate student completing his doctorate at the University of Western Ontario. She grew up in Christchurch after her family returned to New Zealand when she was six years old; she spent a year living in Leeds where she attended Lawnswood School. She referred to this experience as \"amazing, but a real eye opener\" due to the toughness of the environment. She attended Burnside High School, studied English at the University of Canterbury, and completed a Master's degree in Creative Writing at The Institute of Modern Letters, Victoria University of Wellington. She is related to author Bruce Catton.\n\nCatton's debut novel, \"The Rehearsal\", was published in 2008. It was written as her Master's thesis, and deals with reactions to an affair between a male teacher and a girl at his secondary school. That year, she was awarded a fellowship to the Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\nIn 2009 she was described by the British Daily Mail as \"this year's golden girl of fiction\". In 2011, she was the Ursula Bethell Writer in Residence at the University of Canterbury.\n\nCatton's second novel, \"The Luminaries\", was published in 2013. The novel is set on the goldfields of New Zealand in 1866. It was shortlisted for and subsequently won the 2013 Man Booker Prize making Catton, at the age of 28, the youngest author ever to win the Booker. She was previously, at the age of 27, the youngest author ever to be shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize.\n\nAt 832 pages, \"The Luminaries\" is the longest work to win the prize in its 45-year history. The chair of the judges, Robert Macfarlane commented \"It's a dazzling work. It's a luminous work. It is vast without being sprawling.\" Catton was presented with the prize by the Duchess of Cornwall on 15 October 2013 at Guildhall.\n\nIn November 2013 Catton was awarded the Canadian Governor General's Literary Award for fiction for \"The Luminaries\". In January 2014 it was announced that Catton would be awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Literature in May at Victoria University of Wellington, where she has studied. In the 2014 New Year Honours, she was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to literature.\n\nDuring an interview at the Jaipur Literary Festival in January 2015, Catton said that the governments of Australia, Canada and New Zealand were led by \"neo-liberal, profit-obsessed, very shallow, very money-hungry politicians who do not care about culture... They care about short-term gains. They would destroy the planet in order to be able to have the life they want. I feel very angry with my Government\".\n\nPrime Minister John Key said he was disappointed at Catton's lack of respect for his Government and claimed she was aligned with the Green Party. The next day he said her views should not be given any more credence than those of the Peter \"The Mad Butcher\" Leitch or Richie McCaw.\n\nIn January 2015, on air RadioLive host Sean Plunket called Catton a traitor and an \"ungrateful hua\". The Taxpayers' Union also released a media statement showing Catton had received around $50,000 in Creative New Zealand support over her career. Jordan Williams of the Taxpayers' Union argued that: \"if Ms Catton isn't thankful for the support by the New Zealand Government while she wrote The Luminaries, maybe she should use some of the substantial royalties to pay the money back\".\n\nIn a blog post responding to the affair, Catton commented that her reported remarks were a condensed part of a larger interview, and she was puzzled why her comment at the Jaipur festival had generated such controversy: \"I’ve been speaking freely to foreign journalists ever since I was first published overseas, and have criticised the Key government, neo-liberal values, and our culture of anti-intellectualism many times.\" She continued:\nThe criticism of Catton caused a media storm, including the publication of numerous cartoons, and was termed \"Cattongate\" by one commentator. In an opinion piece, Bryce Edwards quoted numerous commentators who supported Catton's right to express her views. He said the controversy reflected the hollowness of public debate in New Zealand, and of the media and politics, and is increasingly of concern to some academics, researchers, and journalists. He also said that for some people, the saga also relates to the more recent Dirty Politics scandal.\n\nCatton lives in Auckland with her husband, American/New Zealander author and poet Steven Toussaint, and teaches creative writing at the Manukau Institute of Technology. They married in January 2016.\n\nIn 2014 she used her winnings from the NZ Post Book Award to establish the Lancewood/Horoeka Grant. The grant offers a stipend to emerging writers with the aim of \"the means and opportunity not to write, but to read, and to share what they learn through their reading with their colleagues in the arts\". Recipients have included Amy Brown, Craig Cliff and Richard Meros.\n\n\n\n\nWolfe, Graham. “Eleanor Catton’s \"The Rehearsal\": Theatrical Fantasy and the Gaze.” \"Mosaic: A Journal for the Interdisciplinary Study of Literature\" 49.3 (2016): 91–108.\n\n\nInterviews\n\nBiographies\n"}
{"id": "2192344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2192344", "title": "Erasmus Student Network", "text": "Erasmus Student Network\n\nErasmus Student Network (ESN) is a Europe-wide student organisation. Its goal is to support and develop student exchange on a local, national and international level. It is composed of around 13,500 members in over 530 local sections in 40 countries in Higher Education Institutions, including universities, polytechnics, and university colleges. The network offers its services to around 160,000 international students.\n\nESN facilitates the social and personal integration of international students. The local ESN sections offer help, guidance and valuable information to both exchange students and students doing a full degree abroad. ESN provides information about academic exchange programmes and student mobility in general.\n\nIn 1987, the European Community approved a plan to create a mobility scheme for higher education. Part of it was the Erasmus programme - an exchange programme for students to provide students with the opportunity to spend part of their studies abroad.\n\nIn 1989 the Erasmus Bureau invited 32 former Erasmus Students for an evaluation meeting in Ghent, Belgium. This meeting was the starting point for the Erasmus Student Network. The lack of peer-to-peer support was singled out as a major issue and the driving force behind the creation of the Erasmus Student Network, named for the Dutch Renaissance humanist.\n\nBy 1994 ESN had 60 sections in 14 countries. In 2004 the ESN network consisted of 170 sections in and outside Europe, from Scandinavia to Morocco. ESN has been growing with an average rate of around 12% since then.\n\nIn 2005, ESN established its headquarters in Brussels and legally registered as a Belgian non-profit organisation.\n\nAs of November 25, 2017, the Erasmus Student Network consists of 533 local associations (\"sections\") in 40 countries and has more than 13,500 volunteers across Europe.\n\nESN works on three levels - local, national and international. It is only active within the borders defined by the Council of Europe. Its president for the 2015-16 term is Safi Sabuni.\n\nESN on local level consists of \"sections\" that directly work with the international students. They organize activities like introduction programmes, get-togethers and cultural events and represent the exchange students and their needs towards academic institutions and local authorities. Together the local sections, or rather representatives from the sections form the Annual General Meeting (AGM), the highest decision-making body of ESN.\n\nThe national level represents the needs of international students towards governments and national authorities. Local sections in the same countries together form a National Platform (NP) who can elect a National Board and elects a National Representative (NR) to represent the national network on the international level.\n\nThe International Board is the executive body of ESN International and consists of five Board members (President, Vice-President, Treasurer, Communication Manager and Web Project Administrator). Since 2005, the members of the International Board are full-time volunteers living and working in Brussels. The International Board is supported by the Secretariat composed of employed staff.\n\nEach country elects a National Representative and all National Representatives form the Council of National Representatives (CNR). During the year they represent the interest of the network and are, after the AGM, the highest decision-making body.\n\nESN has five International Committees that work together with its respective international board member in charge. The Committees of ESN are - International Committee of Education (ICE), Network and Events Committee (NEC), Finance Committee (FiCo), Communication Committee (ComCom)and IT Committee (IT).\n\nWhile sections are independent to organise their activities on the local level, ESN runs several international projects that are implemented across the Network. The Social Erasmus projects aims to integrate international students into the local community via charity, environmental and education actions. ExchangeAbility aims to improve the situation for students with special needs and support those students to realise a mobility period. PRIME and ESNSurvey are the main research projects that enable ESN to continuously monitor issues concerning international students. ESN widely implements the Responsible Party campaign to raise students´ awareness on responsible drinking.\n\nSince its foundation in 1989, ESN holds Annual General Meetings (AGM), alternating in major cities throughout Europe.\n\nOther activities include annual Cultural Medleys (CM) from 1999 until 2012, and annual meetings of the organization's five Regional Platforms. These Regional Platforms are:\n"}
{"id": "41966718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41966718", "title": "External independent evaluation", "text": "External independent evaluation\n\nExternal independent evaluation or External independent testing (EIT, external testing, ET) - examinations for admission to universities in Ukraine.\nComplex organizational procedures (first - testing) aims to determine the level of academic performance of secondary schools during their admission to higher education.\nThe purpose of external evaluation: improving public education and implementation of Ukraine's constitutional rights to equal access to quality education, monitoring of compliance with the State Standard of secondary education and the analysis of the education system, predict its development.\nThe results of external testing results are counted as a state of final attestation and the results of entrance examinations to higher educational institutions.\nSince 2004, with the support of international NGOs and external testing system is formed in Ukraine.\nProvision of external evaluation carried out by the Ukrainian Center for Educational Quality Assessment in partnership with local education authorities, Regional Institute of Postgraduate Education, educational institutions.\n\nSome test can be conducted in a minority language; Polish, Hungarian, Russian, Moldavian, Romanian or Crimean Tatar.\n\nUkraine has made an attempt to introduce testing of secondary schools. Due to a number of factors attempt failed.\n\nCenter for Testing Technology International \"Renaissance\" in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine conducted 200 tests, which was attended by first year students in higher education.\nThe purpose of this project - testing of tests and development of technology management.\n\nCenter for Testing Technology International \"Renaissance\" in cooperation with the Ministry of Education have tested in mathematics and history 3121 670 graduate schools of Ukraine. Four universities have started to count the test results as preliminary tests. At the request of students in secondary schools test results rank as a state final certification.\n\nCenter for Testing Technologies International \"Renaissance\" in cooperation with the Ministry of Education tested 4485 high school graduates bridge Kyiv, Donetsk, Lviv, Kharkov, Odessa of math, Ukrainian language, history, economy.\n\nThe 31 higher educational institutions were decisions on admission test results as preliminary tests.\n\n25 August adopted Resolution Ukraine Cabinet of Ministers \"Some aspects of the introduction of external assessment and monitoring of the quality of education.\" This document provides: held in 2006, the testing technology EIT educational achievements of graduates of general secondary education, in 2007 – 2008 years - make the introduction of UPE educational achievements of graduates who wish to join Universities.\n\nPresident Viktor Yushchenko decree on July 4 instructed Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for 2005 – 2006 years to make the transition to conduct preliminary tests to higher education institutions by EIT.\n\nCabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in law № 1312 on December 31 was established Ukrainian Center for Educational Quality Assessment and found that UPE schools dosyahen graduates of general secondary education, who found bazhannnya join Universities is a state final certification and introductory trial to these institutions.\n\nBeing tested 10,030 students from 1567 schools in Ukraine.\n\nIn the State Budget of Ukraine | State Budget of Ukraine in 2006, the first provided the funds for implementation of UPE and monitoring the quality of education.\n\nBegins its activity Ukrainian Center for Educational Quality Assessment. Created 8 regional centers otsnyuvannya quality education.\n\nBeing tested 41,818 secondary school graduates, which involved 6 300 instructors, 700 examiners.\n\nAfter 2005, all university, subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine rank the results of external testing.\n\n2007 external testing was performed as the test with Ukrainian language, math, History (History of Ukraine and World History).\n\nExternal independent evaluation Chemistry, biology, Physics was carried out only for school leavers Kharkiv district.\n\nTesting of the Ukrainian language took place on 21 April, chemistry, physics and biology - April 26, math and history - April 28.\n\nFrom 2008, the external independent evaluation is a prerequisite of entry to higher education.\n2008 independent external evaluation is carried out with such items:\n\nAfter the arrival of the new Minister of Education and Science Ivan Vakarchuk appropriate order number from the 1171 25 December 2008 was determined Ukrainian language as a single, which can make the external evaluation, and those who studied minority languages (Russian, Polish, Hungarian, Crimean, Moldovan/Romanian) will be given a short vocabulary of terms translated into Ukrainian. This caused outrage and concern among minority groups, including Russian and Hungarian Ukraine. In the Crimea there were mass protests for the right to make tests online. This position was supported by some officials of Ukraine, Chairman of the Supreme Council of Crimea Anatoliy Hrytsenko sent a written request to the Ministry of Education of Ukraine to Crimea testing was conducted online.\n\nIn general, under the substantive session of the external evaluation, which lasted from April 22 to June 4 was written 997 000 897 tests. To test participants working 4600 test points, which housed 81,000 audiences. The average turnout for testing was 76%.\n\n1 November 2008 university announced for EIT certificate required for admission to certain areas of training. Drawing substantive session SET cut in two weeks, so it went on May 6 to 5 June 2009, you can register with 1 December 2008 year. In addition, that year was reduced to eight the number of items from which the testing was conducted in foreign literature, basic economy, basic law, world history was excluded. Instead, graduates were able to pass the tests in foreign Language English, German, Spanish or French. Graduates could choose not to lease 3 and up to five items EIT. Testing of the Ukrainian language and literature continue left compulsory for all graduates. Starting this year, the submission of applications to the university can be monitored online vstup.info. Also in 2009, the possibility remains up tests six languages national minorities of Ukraine. Preparation courses at universities no longer allow non-competition entrance in university.\n\nThis year, ending several years of transition period during which the test could pass one of seven languages. A decree to improve instruction in Ukrainian national minorities in schools, so EIT for the first time held merely Ukrainian. To ensure the rights of national minorities will be provided dictionary and the translation of key terms that will be used in the tests. However, Crimean parliament are June 18, 2008, the turned to Supreme Soviet and Cabinetof Ministers with a request to conduct an independent external testing Crimea school graduates enrolled in languages of national minorities in these languages also after 2009 year. However, the decision of the Ministry remains unchanged. The main testing session will be held in June (2 to 23). Graduated Every school should be tested in the Ukrainian language and literature, and the choice of math or history.\n\n\nIn 2011, an external evaluation for those wishing to become university students conducted the following subjects: Ukrainian language and literature, history of Ukraine, mathematics, biology, geography, physics, chemistry, Russian language, one foreign language (optional): English, German, French, Spanish.\n\nThe external evaluation of the Ukrainian language and literature is required for all applicants.\n\nThe results of the external assessment will be counted as entrance examinations to higher educational institutions for education and professional training programs vocational and Bachelor (and Master of Medical and Veterinary Medical direction) .\n\nTests for external assessment of Ukraine's history, mathematics, biology, geography, physics, chemistry will be translated in Crimean Tatar, Moldavian, Polish, Russian, Romanian, Hungarian. \nNovember 10, 2011 began a registration trial testing EIT, which lasted until 10 December 2011 inclusive.\n\n\nIn 2012, in the subjects, which carries EIT added world history. In addition, the maximum number of items that sit on EIT applicants dropped to four. No other significant changes have occurred, remains binding assembly assessment of applicants Ukrainian language and literature. Other items depend on the chosen specialty. It should also be noted that due to the conduct of Euro 2012 in Poland and Ukraine SET 2012 held about a month before usual.\n\n\nAugust 13, 2012 it was announced that the list of items for compiling external evaluation to be completed world literature.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27345041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27345041", "title": "Hanban", "text": "Hanban\n\nHanban () is the colloquial abbreviation for the Office of Chinese Language Council International, originally called China National Office for Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language (NOTCFL) during 2002 to 2006.\n\nThe Office of Chinese Language Council International () is affiliated with the Chinese Ministry of Education. Hanban describes itself as a \"non-government and non-profit organization\", but \"The Economist\" calls it a \"government entity\". The current President of the Chinese Language Council International is Vice Premier Liu Yandong and organizationally it sits directly under the Ministry of Education.\n\nAccording to the mission statement: \"Hanban is committed to developing Chinese language and culture teaching resources and making its services available worldwide, meeting the demands of overseas Chinese learners to the utmost degree, and to contributing to global cultural diversity and harmony.\" Generally, the Council is charged with cultivating knowledge and interest in the Chinese language and culture in nations around the world that are not native speakers of Chinese.\n\nThe following twelve state ministries and commissions are represented in the Chinese Language Council International:\n\nAcademics and journalists have criticized the Hanban, particularly the Confucius Institute program that has rapidly grown worldwide since 2004.\n\nHanban is most notable for the Confucius Institute program, but it also sponsors the Chinese Bridge competition, which is a competition in Chinese proficiency for non-native speakers. On April 2007 while inspecting Hanban, Li Changchun, member of the Standing Committee of the Politburo in charge of ideology and propaganda stated that: \"the construction of Confucius Institutes is an important channel to glorify Chinese culture, to help Chinese culture spread to the world...(which is) part of China's foreign propaganda strategy\"\"\n\nIn January 2010, the Ministry of Finance of the People's Republic of China announced that the winning bid to build and maintain the Confucius Institute Online website was awarded to the Hanban subsidiary company Wuzhou Hanfeng Web Technology Ltd. (Wuzhou Hanfeng Wangluo Keji 五洲汉风网络科技) for 35.2 million \"yuan\" (US$5.7 million). Wuzhou Hanfeng Web Technology Ltd. was registered to Wáng Yǒnglì (王永利), Deputy Director-General of Hanban and Deputy Chief Executive of Confucius Institute Headquarters, a connection which led news media and social media commentators to criticize Hanban for a lack of transparency and corruption. In response, Hanban Director-General Xià Jiànhuī (夏建辉) said \"the website will eventually be made into a learning portal that will be promoted globally, this is a comprehensive project\", and maintained that the Hanban did not break any rules by allowing their own subsidiary company to win the contract.\n\nThe CIs are also criticized for their hiring practices. It was revealed that CI teachers are forbidden to have any in class discussion on or any involvement with topics sensitive to the Chinese regime, such as the Uyghurs, Tibet, Falun Gong, democracy advocates, etc. Canada's McMaster University terminated its contract with its CI after Sonia Zhao, former teacher at the University's CI, quit her job, and subsequently appealed to the Human Rights Tribunal of Ontario for the university's “giving legitimization to discrimination.” Under her job contract with the CI Ms. Zhao was forced to hide her belief in Falun Gong, a spiritual movement persecuted by the Communist party of China.\n\nTwo North American associations of educators warned that Confucius Institutes were threatening academic freedoms. In December 2013, the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) passed a resolution, \"That all universities and colleges in Canada which currently host Confucius Institutes on their campuses cease doing so, and universities and colleges currently contemplating such arrangements pursue them no further.\" CAUT executive director James Turk described CIs as \"essentially political arms of the Chinese government\", and said the 10 Canadian universities that host CIs are compromising their integrity by allowing the Hanban to have a voice in academic matters such as curriculum and topics of class discussion, which constitutes a \"fundamental violation of academic freedom.\" In June, 2014, the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) called on the almost 100 American universities that host Confucius Institutes to renegotiate their contracts with the Hanban. The AAUP's Report on Academic Freedom stated, \"Confucius Institutes function as an arm of the Chinese state and are allowed to ignore academic freedom.\"\n\nA 21 June 2014 editorial in \"The Washington Post\" listed recent concerns about Confucius Institutes, including the AAUP advising universities to cut ties with them, alleged violations of freedom of speech and human rights, and the secrecy of undisclosed contracts between schools and the Hanban. It concluded that \"academic freedom cannot have a price tag\", and recommended that if universities will not publish their CI agreements, the programs should end. The official Chinese news agency Xinhua \"hit back with an angry editorial\" on 24 June, saying the claims by the AAUP and others that CIs \"function as an arm of the Chinese state and are pushing political agendas\", actually \"expose not so much communist propaganda as their own intolerance of exotic cultures and biased preconceived notions to smear and isolate the CPC\".\n\nXu Lin, the Director-General of Hanban and Chief Executive of the Confucius Institute Headquarters, caused two international scandals in 2014. In July, she ordered her staff to rip pages referring to Taiwanese academic institutions from the published program for the European Association for Chinese Studies conference in Portugal, claiming the materials were \"contrary to Chinese regulations\", which the \"Wall Street Journal\" described as the \"bullying approach to academic freedom\". In September, the University of Chicago closed their CI, blaming Xu's comments that her threatening letter and phone call forced the university to continue hosting the institute. The \"Business Spectator\" concludes that the Xu Lin's hardline behavior highlights one of the biggest problems for Beijing’s charm offensive. \"It still relies on officials like Xu, who still think and act like party ideologues who like to assert their authority and bully people into submission.\"\n\nOn 22 July 2014, the evening before the start of the European Association of Chinese Studies (EACS) conference in Braga, Portugal, Xu Lin censored four pages from the conference program and one page from the abstracts, which referred to Taiwan’s Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, a major sponsor of the conference for the past 20 years. The EACS protested and reprinted all the deleted materials for distribution to all conference members. Roger Greatrex, president of the EACS, subsequently issued a report on the page deletions, and an official letter of protest that concluded, \"Such interference in the internal organization of the international conference of an independent and democratically organized non-profitable academic organization is totally unacceptable.\"\n\nThe Confucius China Studies Program (CCSP), which is administered by the Confucius Institute, was another major sponsor of the conference, and Sun Lam, director of the University of Minho Confucius Institute was a co-organizer of the conference. The CCSP international conference funding application states, \"The conference is regulated by the laws and decrees of both China and the host country, and will not carry out any activities which are deemed to be adverse to the social order.\" Dr. Lam submitted a draft copy of the program to the CCSP, who subsequently approved the materials.\n\nConference registration began on 22 July 2014, and about 100 participants received complete copies of the abstracts and program, which comprised 89 pages plus cover and front matter. However, after Xu Lin arrived that evening, she proclaimed that mention of the CCSP sponsorship be removed from the Conference Abstracts, and ordered her entourage from Confucius Institute Headquarters to remove all conference materials and take them to the apartment of a local CI employee. When the remaining 300 participants arrived for conference registration on 23 July, they did not receive the printed abstracts or programs but only a brief summarized schedule. After last-minute negotiations between Xu Lin and conference organizers to ensure conference members received the program, a compromise was made to allow the removal of one abstract page that mentioned the CCSP support of the conference.\n\nOn the morning of 24 July, the remaining 300 conference participants received their materials, which were now missing four printed pages: the frontispiece mentioning CCSP sponsorship in the conference abstract, and three pages from the conference program. These expurgated pages contained information the book exhibition and library donation organized by the Taiwan National Central Library, and the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange. The director of the National Central Library stated that EACS officials and members had spoken out against Xu during the opening ceremony.\n\nMarshall Sahlins explained that the EACS censorship brings to light the Hanban's seriousness in enforcing its contractual provisions \"the way they do in China which is not so much by going to court ... but simply by fiat\".\n\n\"The Christian Science Monitor\" said that the censorship has made more American, European, and Australian academics grow uneasy with CIs, and reported that when Ms. Xu met privately with foreign scholars in Shanghai, who asked specifically about the missing pages \"she denied ordering them censored.\"\n\nIn December 2014, the BBC interviewed Xu Lin in Beijing. When the interviewer brought up the Braga incident, Xu Lin objected and later asked for large portions of the interview to be deleted. One of the points she made in the interview is that Taiwan belongs to China, and therefore outsiders have no business interfering. The BBC did not agree to the censorship demand. \"Xu Lin not only refused to answer difficult questions, she also politicised the Confucius Institutes and reinforced the idea that they are led by dogmatists,\" commented Gary Rawnsley, professor of Public Diplomacy at Aberystwyth University, Wales. \n\"The Wall Street Journal\" reported on Xu's BBC interview, and said, \"Critics have argued that China’s Confucius Institutes pose a threat to academic freedom in the United States, Canada, Europe and beyond. Now the Beijing official in charge of them has confirmed it.\"\n\nOn 25 September 2014, the University of Chicago stated that it had suspended negotiations to renew its CI contract because \"recently published comments about UChicago in an article about the director-general of Hanban are incompatible with a continued equal partnership.\" This indirectly referred to Xu Lin's interview with the \"Jiefang Daily\", the official newspaper of the Communist Party in Shanghai, published on 19 September 2014, in which she claimed to have intimidated the president of the University of Chicago \"with a single sentence\", after 100 professors signed a petition to ban the Confucius Institute.\nXu Lin wrote a letter to Chicago's president and called the university representative in Beijing (where Chicago has a research center), \"with only one line: 'If your school decides to withdraw, I will agree to it.' Her attitude made the other side anxious. The school quickly responded that it will continue to properly manage the Confucius Institute.\" \nOther media reports said Xu's comments: \"brought panic\" to the university, which was convinced by this \"demeaning depiction\" that an equal partnership was impossible; \"could be construed as a boastful challenge\"; \"implied the school had kowtowed to the Chinese government\"; or caused UChicago administrators to become \"anxious\" at the thought of shutting down the CI.\n\nIn response to the UChicago CI closure, the official Chinese \"People's Daily\" published \"Rejecting Confucius Institutes not helpful to understand China\" on 28 September 2014, but with two factual errors. First, closing the Confucius Institute does not mean \"Chinese language study in the university would cease soon\"; it means the university's Center for East Asian Studies will resume teaching Chinese. Second, without reference either to UChicago's statement, which specifically blamed Xu Lin's remarks, nor to the widespread media coverage of her \"Jiefang Daily\" interview, \"People's Daily\" said, \"Though the university did not detail the reasons behind the suspension, many believed it was linked to the American Association of University Professors' boycott of CI.\"\n\nXu's PR scandals occurred during the Hanban's international celebrations for the 10th anniversary of Confucius Institutes. The Australian \"Business Spectator\", describing the EACS incident as \"highly damaging\" for China's international image, said, \"Xu’s hardline behaviour highlights one of the biggest problems for Beijing’s charm offensive. It still relies on officials like Xu, who still think and act like party ideologues who like to assert their authority and bully people into submission... [Xu Lin] has been a publicity disaster.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30762154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30762154", "title": "International Studies Conference", "text": "International Studies Conference\n\nThe International Studies Conference (ISC) is an annual conference taking place since 2008 in Łódź, Poland showing Polish students possibilities of studying abroad, especially in the United Kingdom and the United States. The conference each year gathers students, alumni and lecturers from world-leading academic institutions including The London School of Economics and Political Science, University of Warwick, UCL, University of Oxford and Harvard University.\n"}
{"id": "38848839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38848839", "title": "James Bonk", "text": "James Bonk\n\nJames Frederick Bonk (February 6, 1931 – March 15, 2013) was an American university professor noted for eschewing a research career in favor of teaching introductory chemistry courses for over 50 years, primarily at Duke University. He did, however, also teach advanced and graduate courses, and wrote his own textbooks and laboratory manuals. His students fondly labeled his main chemistry class \"Bonkistry\".\n\nBonk obtained a B.S. in Chemistry in 1953 from Carroll College (Waukesha, Wisconsin). He obtained a Ph.D. in chemistry in 1958 from Ohio State University.\n\nWhile a graduate student at Ohio State University, he received a DuPont Lecturing Fellowship that enabled him to teach there and to coordinate the teaching of introductory chemistry classes at OSUs branch campuses. He also taught summers at Muskingum College.\n\nIn 1959 he joined the Department of Chemistry at Duke University as an assistant professor and rose to the rank of full professor for his teaching skills.\n\nBonk was known for his sense of humor. One oft-repeated story regarding him is that a group of students went out of town for a party and got back late, telling Bonk that they were delayed by a flat tire and thus missed an exam. Bonk reportedly told them they could take a makeup exam the next day. When they came for the makeup exam, the students were each put in a different room. The first question on the exam was reputedly a straightforward question worth 5 points. The story goes that the second question, on the next page, was worth 95 points and said \"Which Tire?\" This version of events is listed on Snopes.com as an embellished and unproveable story possibly based on a real incident, and the Snopes entry includes a 1996 letter to Snopes from Bonk stating that the story had been embellished; Bonk reiterated in 2001 that the story had been embellished, and added that he would never place that much emphasis on a trick question.\n\nBonk was also known for his love of tennis, and he played the sport throughout his life. The Duke University tennis teams recognized his many years of service by officially naming Court Number 3 at Ambler Tennis Stadium as \"Bonk Court\" in 2011. This interest in sports and fitness came in handy when a student tried to hit his face with a pie in 1975. Bonk frequently recounted the story of spryly leaping aside so that the pie got him in the shoulder, and then charging after the perpetrator, who ran out the classroom door and into the neighboring woods. Bonk's fitness allowed him to keep pace with the much younger student as they ran around in the woods until, in Bonk's words, \"the young man made a tactical error by jumping down into a stream.\" At that point he was no longer able to evade Bonk, who demanded his Duke University identification. The story was picked up by the Associated Press and garnered national attention.\n\nBonk was born February 6, 1931 in Menominee, Michigan, the son of Joseph Frank Bonk and Beatrice (Colburn) Bonk. He died March 15, 2013 in Durham, North Carolina. A memorial service was held at Duke Chapel on March 21, 2013. Also on March 21, 2013, his ashes were interred in the Sarah P. Duke Memorial Gardens on the Duke campus.\n\nBonk received numerous awards:\n\n"}
{"id": "32705872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32705872", "title": "Journal of Continuing Education in Nursing", "text": "Journal of Continuing Education in Nursing\n\nThe Journal of Continuing Education in Nursing is a peer-reviewed nursing journal published by Slack. It was established in 1970 and publishes original articles for continuing education in nursing.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in MEDLINE and PubMed. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 0.820.\n"}
{"id": "6245437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6245437", "title": "Kaunas University of Technology", "text": "Kaunas University of Technology\n\nKaunas University of Technology (KTU) is a public research university located in Kaunas, Lithuania.\n\nInitially established on January 27, 1920, the school was known as \"Higher Courses\". With an increased rate of staffing and attendance, the school was instituted as the first independent higher education institution within Lithuania by the government on February 16, 1922. Renamed Vytautas Magnus in 1930, the university specialized in four areas: civil engineering, mechanics, electrical engineering, and chemical technology. The turmoil of World War II brought combinations of Soviet, then German, and finally Soviet re-occupation, numerous name changes and an eventual closing of the university in 1943. After re-occupation by the Soviets in 1944, the University reopened and eventually reformed into Kaunas Polytechnic Institute (KPI) and Kaunas Medical Institute in 1946. Under the influence of Perestroika, the Soviet Lithuanian government reinstated the school's university status, and it was renamed the Kaunas University of Technology (KTU). Independence from the Soviet Union brought rapid westernization with a flexible module/credit system and membership to many Western European organizations.\n\nSince the establishment in 1922, the University has produced more than 125 000 graduates.\nFollowing Lithuanian independence, KTU has issued over 1000 doctoral, and 62,000 bachelor's and master's degrees.\n\nWith a current academic staff of almost 3000 employees and nearly 17,000 students, KTU stands as the largest technical university in the Baltic States.\n\nZ. Žemaitis, a mathematician, and J. Vabalas-Gudaitis, a psychologist, with other intellectuals founded the first centre of studies in Kaunas – the Higher Courses. Among other subdivisions, the Courses included a technical section directed by engineer J. Šimoliūnas. The Higher Courses enjoyed successful growth and in two years they already had 480 students and 48 teachers.\n\nOn February 16, 1922 the government of Lithuania passed a resolution establishing the school as a university. The president of Lithuania A. Stulginskis appointed Dr. J. Šimkus as the first rector of the university with Monsignor J. Mačiulis-Maironis as the dean of Theology, A. Voldemaras as the dean of Social Sciences, Z. Žemaitis as the dean of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, P. Avižonis as the dean of Medicine, and P. Jodelė as the dean of technology.\n\nOn June 7, 1930 the university was named Vytautas Magnus University. The university then consisted of seven faculties consisting of the Faculty of Theology and Philosophy, Faculty of Evangelical Theology, Faculty of Humanities, Faculty of Law, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Faculty of Technology.\n\nThe beginning of 1940 saw the reorganization of Vytautas Magnus University with The Faculties of Law and Humanities being transferred to the University of Vilnius.\n\nOn August 21, 1940, with occupation by the Soviet Union, the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic was instructed to rename school the University of Kaunas. In the fall of 1940 the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences was transferred to the University of Vilnius.\n\nWith German occupation in 1941, the university was once more renamed Vytautas Magnus University with 5 faculties: Theology, Philosophy, Technology, Civil Engineering and Mathematics. On March 17, 1943 the University was closed, along with other Lithuanian institutions of higher education.\n\nOn November 13, 1944 the Lithuanian SSR occupational government reopened the University, and until 1946 it operated under the name of Kaunas National Vytautas Magnus University.\n\nIn June 1949 the Faculty of History and Theology was closed.\n\nIn 1950 the University of Kaunas was reorganized into Kaunas Polytechnic Institute (KPI) and Kaunas Medical Institute. Throughout Soviet occupation, the KPI resisted attempts at Russification and internationalization and strove to preserve the old European university spirit, national academic traditions, and teaching in the Lithuanian language.\n\nIn 1990 KPI was named Kaunas University of Technology (KTU), regained its university status, and embarked on the road to reforms of studies and science.\n\nIn 1992 the university, in accordance with the Law on Science and Education of the Republic of Lithuania, started implementing a two-level degree program of higher education and a new procedure of awarding research degrees and academic titles.\n\nIn 1993 a Western flexible module and credit study system was implemented with emphasis on the unity of studies and science, broad fundamental education, liberal study programmes and independent study.\n\nIn 1998 the university joined Magna Charta of the European Universities and became a member of the European Universities Association and the International Association of Universities.\n\nKaunas University of Technology has 151 study programmes, of which 64 are Bachelor's, 69 are Master's, 17 are Doctoral and 1 – non-degree student programmes. 39 of them are taught in English.\n\nThe university has 10,895 students, of which 7,895 are Bachelor's, 2,648 are Master's, 566 are foreign, and 352 are Doctoral students.\n\nFaculty of Chemical Technology was founded in 1947. Full-time academic and research staff - 142 people, 15 professors and 52 associate professors among them work at the Faculty.\n\n830 students are enrolled in the bachelor studies programmes (including full-time and extramural forms of studies); 192 master students are enrolled in the second stage of studies (master studies), and there are 50 doctoral students in the third stage of studies (doctoral studies).\n\nFaculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture at Kaunas University of Technology was established in 1940.\n\nFaculty of Electrical and Electronics Engineering was formed on January 2, 2014 after reorganization of Telecommunications and Electronics, and Electrical and Control Engineering faculties. Full-time academic and research staff of 139 employees includes 23 professors and 60 associate professors.\n\nCollaborates with business partners who participate in study and graduate recruitment processes.\n\nFaculty of Informatics was founded in 1977; however, the first Informatics graduates were awarded diplomas in 1960.\n\nAcademic and research staff of 85 employees includes 14 professors and 35 associate professors. In 2013 the scientists of the faculty published 90 research papers, 7 of them are printed in the international journals with Citation Index referred in Thomson Reuters database.\n\nThe Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Science started its activity since January 1, 2014. It is derived from the Faculty of Fundamental Sciences founded in September 1, 1993. The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Science offers 3 Undergraduate and 4 graduate studies in Lithuanian and 2 undergraduate and 2 graduate studies in English\n\n\nFaculty of Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities was established by merging the Faculty of Social Sciences, the Faculty of Humanities and the Institute of Europe in January 2014.\n\nPanevėžys faculty of technologies and business was founded in 1961. It consists of the Department of Technologies and the Department of Economics and Business. There are 50 academic staff at the Faculty, 25 of them work full-time (6 professors, 22 associate professors, 19 doctors lecturers and 3 assistants (doctoral students).\n\n671 students study at the Faculty: 438 in full-time study programmes (135 of them are master students); 233 students are enrolled in evening studies.\n\nSchool of Economics and Business is the largest School at Kaunas University of Technology. There are 6 academic departments, Executive School, 3 research centres and institutes. School of Economics and Business offers 8 undergraduate, 14 graduate and 2 PhD study programmes.\n\nKTU traditionally engages in research of physical, technological and social sciences, and experimental development, while research of biomedical sciences and humanities is also promoted.\n\nFood Institute was\nfounded as a State research institution in 1958, and reorganized into an affiliate of Kaunas University of Technology in 2003.\n\nThe Institute originated from KTU Telematics Science Laboratory founded in 1993 by professor Arminas Ragauskas. The research carried out at the Institute concentrates on the areas of solving physical and biological processes’ measurement and monitoring scientific and technological problems. Created non-invasive technologies for intracranial pressure measurement, for real-time monitoring of cerebral blood flow autoregulation state, for diagnosing of intracraniospinal compliance, for prediction of hypertension events, etc. are protected by the US, EU, Japan and other patents. Successful clinical studies of created non-invasive technologies in the US, Germany, Finland, Sweden, Norway and Lithuania have been funded by the US Dept. of Defence, NASA, European Commission, European Structural Funds, etc.\n\nInstitute of Architecture and Construction was established in 1956, it was connected to the Kaunas University of Technology in 2010.\n\nThe main mission of IDT is to organize, coordinate and carry out scientific research and design – testing activities in defense technologies, organize approbation and implementation of the developed equipment and technologies, to participate in preparation of qualified specialists, take part in university studies, carry out experimentation and consultation activities and contribute to the development and strengthening defense and national security ystems of the country.\n\nThe Institute of Environmental Engineering (APINI) was established in 1991 as an independent research unit affiliated to Kaunas University of Technology (KTU). APINI was the first institution in Lithuania to start solving environmental problems.\n\nInstitute of Materials Science was known as Institute of Physical Electronics till Feb 1, 2010. The Institute of Physical Electronics was founded in 1994 after the reorganization of the Scientific Center of Semiconductor Microelectronics \"Microlira\" of Kaunas Institute of Radio Measurement Technique.\n\nResearch, studies and provision of information in the field of mechatronics including adaptive piezomechanical systems, smart materials, structures and devices, microsystems dynamics, biomechanics/biomechatronics, robotics, real-time data analysis and control, etc.\n\nKTU Institute of Metrology (until 1998. Metrological Examination Institute) is the scientific and academic unit of Kaunas University of Technology, established in 1995. by the Senate of the University, through Lithuanian state metrological service.\n\nWe represent majority of ultrasonic research groups at Kaunas University of Technology, Lithuania. The ultrasound research in our university is counting more than 50 years of activity. Ultrasound research activities were initiated by prof. Baršauskas in 1960 by founding Ultrasound Laboratory. We are involved in many projects concerning various applications of ultrasonic techniques. Ultrasound institute has participated and is still participating in international projects sponsored by EC: FP5, FP6, FP7, Eurostars.\n\nProtection and commercialisation of KTU research production has been delegated to the National Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre.\n\nKaunas University of Technology (KTU) is famous for its long term contacts with the business, a large technology-related studies and research spectrum.\n\nIn order to\nmake these long-term and close with business relationship even greater incentive in the implementation of joint projects in February, 2012 Kaunas University of Technology (KTU) and Aalto University Centre for Entrepreneurship\n(ACE, Finland) have signed a Memorandum and on its basis KTU Innovation and Business Centre (KTU IBC) was established.\n\nOn the basic of a joint venture agreement signed by representatives of Kaunas University of Technology (KTU), Lithuanian University of Health Sciences (LUHS) and the Lithuanian Energy Institute (LEI) on February 2014 a National Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre (NIEC) was established. The center is open to all scientists, researchers, students and entrepreneurs. NIEC unites and integrates activities of science and business valleys „Santaka“ and „Nemunas“.\n\nNIEC activity areas:\n\n\nNIEC services:\n\n\nIntegrated Science, Studies and Business Centre (Valley) “Santaka” is research and experimental development centre, open to representatives of Lithuanian and foreign science and study institutions, as well as business companies.\n\n“Santaka”\nvalley is open to scientists and researchers, carrying out the contracted research and development works, and implementing the projects in the fields of sustainable chemistry and biopharmacy, mechatronics and electronic technology, future energy, information ad communication technologies.\n\n\nProject value:\n\nThe project of 141 million litas is largely funded by EU Structural Funds. This is the highest investment in the development of science in Kaunas and one of the highest in Lithuania. The construction works amount to 46 million litas, while laboratory equipment – 95 million litas. The total area of the centre is 13.000 square meters.\n\nThe building of the valley consists of two main parts – a horizontal volumetric 5-storey building, equipped with scientific laboratories, and a vertical 8-storey building of business centre with office premises of technological companies.\n\nThe parts of science, studies and business centre are connected by public premises with equipped exposition spaces, transformable conference hall of 400 places, halls, cafe, information centres.\n\nMore than 9.000 square meters in valley are dedicated to research infrastructure. In total, 350 working places will be installed there, the value of equipment is approximately 95 million litas. In collaboration with Danish professionals, the first “clean room” in Lithuania was equipped in this valley. The research of nanotechnology, semiconductors and microelectronics elements are carried out in this specialized laboratory.\n\nThe following scientific fields are developed in “Santaka” valley:\n\n\nKaunas University of Technology for its students offers 12 dormitories (student halls), all based in KTU campus. Every year around 2800 students live in the dormitories.\n\nRichard Branson\nHans Peter Jensen\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20323089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20323089", "title": "Keelonga", "text": "Keelonga\n\nKeelonga is an initiative started by Leila and Karim Pirbay in 2007. \"Kilonga\" means children in Malagasy, the language of Madagascar.\n\nThe goal of Keelonga is to make it easy for every child to get an elementary education in all rural areas in Madagascar.\n\nTo achieve this, Keelonga identifies and selects public elementary schools located in rural areas that are in obvious need of infrastructure repair and maintenance and/or with insufficient number of teachers. After discussing with the administration of the school and the students’ parents, an action plan is set.\nKeelonga currently operates in rural areas around Antananarivo, the capital city. It has already successfully done heavy repairs in many schools. A few water wells have been dug in these schools to provide water and increase the awareness of children for hygiene.\n\nKeelonga also provides teachers whenever necessary in order to maintain a ratio of students to teachers 50 to 1.\n\nActions for the future include more water wells, continue repair and maintenance work and start introducing some courses which are not available such as computer skills.\n"}
{"id": "6252833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6252833", "title": "Kingston High School (Tasmania)", "text": "Kingston High School (Tasmania)\n\nKingston High School was a co-educational high school in Kingston, Tasmania. \n\nThe school taught students in grades 7-10 and currently has approximately 700 students enrolled. The school is a six-stream school, with at least six class groups for each year level at the school.\n\nThe current Principal is Elizabeth Robinson.\n\nKingston High School was opened on Saturday December the 2nd 1972 by the then Minister for Education, Mr. Bill Neilson.\n\nThe school had an initial enrollment of 168 students, with students coming from the rural townships surrounding Kingston.\n\nIn 2000 student numbers peaked at 797 students, with enrollments steadily declining over the next six years. From 2007, numbers have been steadily growing again with the student population expected to continue to increase.\n\nThe school needed to relocate from the old Kingston CBD campus to the new Kingston View Drive campus at the beginning of the 2011 school year. The new school campus was opened on November the 4th 2011.\n\nInitial construction of the Kingston High School current campus was announced in 2007. The new campus is located in Kingston View Drive, on top of the old cemetery grounds bordering the Kingborough Sports Centre in western Kingston. Construction on the project commenced in May 2009.\n"}
{"id": "10143494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10143494", "title": "Lola J. May", "text": "Lola J. May\n\nLola J. May (October 29, 1923 – March 13, 2007) was a noted mathematics educator, consultant, author, producer of audio-visual materials, an early proponent of the new math educational process, and a household name among mathematics.\n\nA native of Kenosha, Wisconsin and a graduate of the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1945, she achieved her master's degree in mathematics at Northwestern University in 1950 and her doctorate in 1964. She taught mathematics at New Trier Township High School in the Chicago area until 1960, and was a mathematics consultant at the Winnetka, Illinois public schools until 1998. Her summers were often spent teaching at the university level.\n\nHer authored works include her autobiography \"Lola May Who?\", the book \"Teaching Mathematics in the Elementary School\", a number of Harcourt Brace textbooks, monthly articles for the Teaching K-8 magazine, and a series of articles for the Chicago Tribune Magazine.\n\nHer awards include the Northwestern Alumni Merit Award, the Lifetime Achievement Award of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, and the Educator of the Year Award from the Winnetka Chamber of Commerce. She frequently was a speaker at the annual California Math Conference during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nMay died on March 13, 2007 in Evanston, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "32474609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32474609", "title": "MEDEA Awards", "text": "MEDEA Awards\n\nThe MEDEA Awards is a free competition launched in November 2007 and supported by the Lifelong Learning Programme of the European Commission through the MEDEA2020 project. It aims to encourage innovation in the use of moving images and sound in education, across Europe and beyond.\n\nThe MEDEA Awards are integrated in the Media & Learning Conference, a yearly conference about the use of media in education which takes place in Brussels, Belgium.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58880695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58880695", "title": "Malgorzata Dubiel", "text": "Malgorzata Dubiel\n\nMalgorzata Dubiel is a Polish mathematician and mathematics educator who works as a senior lecturer at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, Canada.\n\nDubiel is the daughter of a Polish military rocket scientist and engineer.\nShe has a Ph.D. from the University of Warsaw, supervised by theoretical computer scientist and mathematical logician Victor W. Marek. In 1982, she moved to Canada.\n\nAt Simon Fraser, her courses include classes for future mathematics teachers, and remedial mathematics classes for students who did poorly in high school mathematics.\nShe was president of the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association for two terms from 1994 to 1996, and again from 2004 to 2005.\n\nDubiel is known for her studies of Canadian primary and secondary school mathematics textbooks, and for pointing out problems in these texts caused in part because they were written by education professionals without consulting any mathematicians. Although she values creativity imagination in mathematics, and uses it in her own lessons, she has also stated that it \"must not come at the expense of basic math skills, clear instructions and practice\".\n\nShe has also served as president of the Canadian Math Education Study Group and co-chair in 2009 of the Canadian Mathematics Education Forum. She is the founder of an annual mathematics workshop for female graduate students in mathematics, Connecting Women in Mathematics Across Canada. She organizes the annual Changing the Culture conference for mathematics teachers at the Pacific Institute for the Mathematical Sciences, and is the creator of a series of exhibits and activities about mathematics in British Columbia shopping centers. She also leads multiple programs for high school mathematics.\n\nDubiel became a 3M Canadian National Fellow for Teaching and Learning in Higher Education in 2008. The award citation noted her exceptional ability to instill mathematical confidence in entering students, her creative use of cartoons and fairy-tale stories to foster students' mathematical imagination, and her work publicizing mathematics and numeracy to the public.\nShe was the 2011 recipient of the Adrien Pouliot Award of the Canadian Mathematical Society for her contributions to mathematics education in Canada.\nShe also won a 2011 YWCA Women of Distinction award.\n"}
{"id": "35943298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35943298", "title": "Marshal Fahim National Defense University", "text": "Marshal Fahim National Defense University\n\nThe Marshal Fahim National Defense University is located in the Qargha (or Qargheh) district of Kabul on a 105-acre site on a plateau to the west of the Kabul city centre near Police District 5. It houses various educational establishments for the Afghan Armed Forces.\n\nThere are three distinct parts to the university:\n\nThe site will also house the ANA Foreign Language Institute.\n\nGeography The key to Qargha's historical importance is its geographical position. Qargha lies at the western extremity of Kabul, a low plateau dominated to the north and west by a crescent shaped range of hills. Even to the untrained eye, its strategic significance is obvious. To the south west the pass leading to Wardak, Ghazni and Kandahar forms a deep V shape cut into the mountains; to the west lie the Paghman mountains, the Paghman plateau and the road leading into the Hazarat; and to the north, beyond the ridge, the Kabul valley extends to Bagram, Charikor and the passes at Parwan and into the Panjshir Valley.\n\nAncient History The valley in which the university is situated has witnessed the passage of Afghanistan's invaders throughout recorded history, from Alexander the Great in 326BC to Genghis Khan in 1222 AD, followed by Tamerlane (Timur) in 1380 and Babur in 1504. On three separate occasions three hundred years later, the shepherds grazing their flocks on the hillsides would have seen the British advancing up the valley from the East, Robert Sale in 1839, George Pollock in 1842 and Frederick Roberts in 1879.\n\nModern History – The Royal Period The modern history of Qargha begins in the early 1880s, when Abdur Rahman Khan, the founder of the regular Afghan Army, established a logistics base in Qargha to sustain is operations in the Hazarajat region. The camp was expanded considerably during the reign of Adbul Rahman's grandson, Emir Amānullāh Khān in the 1920s when he invited advisors from the Turkish and German Armies to train his Army in order to assert his newly won independence from British control. It became the home of the Kabul Division which was essentially the Emir’s strategic reserve. The camp performed this function until the time of the Soviet occupation in 1979.\n\nModern History – The Soviet Period The Soviet occupation of Qargha began in 1980. They too used the site as a logistics depot, digging ordnance storage bunkers into the northern hillside of the camp, many of which are still in use by the ANA. By the mid-1980s Qargha was occupied by around 12,000 troops, about half Soviet and half Afghan. Despite the huge number of troops on the site, the Mujahideen succeeded in launching an audacious infiltration attack which destroyed a large part of the ordnance depot with a spectacular explosion which could be heard across Kabul city. The attack caused several months of disruption to Soviet supply lines as they struggled to rebuild the depot.\n\nModern History – The Massoud Period The decision of Abdul Rashid Dostum to move his Jowzjani militia out of Qargha to join Ahmad Shah Massoud’s coalition of warlords in the north and North East of the country contributed to the downfall of Mohammad Najibullah's government. Massoud sited a number of Mujahideen troops at Qargha, and he was a frequent visitor to the site, staying in the commander's white house on the hillside, which is now known as 'Massoud House'.\n\nModern History – The Taliban Period Massoud's forces pulled out of Qargha in 1996. The installations left over from the Royal Army and Soviet periods made it an ideal site for the Taliban, who moved in and used it as a training and ordnance depot. They were still in occupation when American bombs rained down in during the Post 9/11 offensive in October 2001, obliterating most of the buildings.\n\nQargha remained a bombed-out moonscape until the decision was made to make it the site of the planned Afghan National Defence University. American contractors moved in mid-2008 to clear the site, which previously served a variety of military roles since the Soviet–Afghan War.\n\nWhen building work is complete, the Qargha site will centralise the training of the majority of future officers and non-commissioned officers in the Afghan Armed Forces. Officer training currently takes place at both the ANDU site and east of the city at the Kabul Military Training Center. NMAA was previously located to the north of the city close to the Kabul International Airport but moved to the ANDU site in 2012.\n\nA cornerstone laying ceremony was conducted in April 2010 and the construction was completed in 2013. The total cost for the first phase of work was $200 million. Institutions that are located at ADU include the National Military Academy of Afghanistan.\n\nIn April 2014, the university was renamed the Defence University of Marshal Fahim in honour of the former Vice President of Afghanistan, Mohammed Fahim who died of a heart attack on 9 March 2014. The ANDU has been commanded by Major General Jalinda Shah since May 2014.\n\nThe National Military Academy of Afghanistan is modelled on the United States Military Academy and United States Air Force Academy. It is designed to train cadets to produce well-educated and professional officers for each of the disciplines of the ANA and AAF. Schools include Armor, Artillery, Human Resources, Signal, Infantry, Engineer, Legal, Military Police, Logistics, Religious/Cultural Affairs, Intelligence and Finance.\n\nNMAA moved to the ANDU site in Qargha on completion of its new campus in 2012. It was previously located in the old Air Academy established by the Soviet Union to the north of Kabul beside Kabul International Airport.\n\nNMAA cadets study both military and academic subjects for a total of 4 years and are awarded a degree from ANDU before commissioning into the ANA as Second Lieutenants. Female cadets have studied at the NMAA since 2011 and the first intake of NMAA-trained female officers will graduate in 2015.\n\nThe ANA Officer Academy is also referred to in Afghanistan as ANAOA and the Junior Officer Academy. It was reported as early as 2006 that the United Kingdom would take a primary role in the creation of an Officer Academy for the ANA and AAF. Nicknamed \"Sandhurst in the Sand\", the Academy was to be modelled on the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. This was supported by the then-head of the ANA, General Sher Mohammad Karimi, who attended Sandhurst himself in the 1960s.\n\nOn 29 March 2012 UK Defence Secretary Philip Hammond met Afghan General Abdul Rahim Wardak and signed a statement of intent on developing the academy. The UK will provide approximately 75% of the training staff for the new Academy and will be involved in its running long after the 2014 deadline for pulling out the majority of troops. Afghan officer cadets have been undertaking training at Sandhurst in recent years in order to improve the standard of officers in the ANA.\n\nOn 19 July 2012 on a visit to Kabul the British Prime Minister David Cameron signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the UK to provide mentors and advisors to the Afghan National Army Officer Academy. New Zealand will also contribute support to the ANA Officer Academy.\n\nLocated in the Qargha area of Kabul, the first concrete steps were taken 10 Oct 12 to start the construction of the academy with a ground breaking ceremony attended by a number of dignitaries including the ANA Chief of General Staff General Shir Mohammad Karimi, Her Majesty's Ambassador to Afghanistan Sir Richard Stagg, ISAF Deputy Commander Lt. Gen. Adrian Bradshaw and Commander of the NATO Training Mission (NTM-A) Lt Gen Bolger.\n\nThe ANA Officer Academy accepted its first intake of 270 students selected from approximately 10,000 initial applicants in October 2013. Training is being delivered by a staff of Afghan officers and soldiers in cooperation with a team of mentors from the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Denmark and Norway.\n\nThe ANA Officer Academy started recruiting its first intake of women in February 2014. Female staff will receive instructor training with their male colleagues, and they will be mentored by a coalition female mentoring team. Female candidates will attend a two-day selection test on the Qargha site in April 2014 and a platoon (balook) of 30 female officer cadets will start training alongside the third male intake in June 2014.\n\nThe Sergeant Major Academy is currently part of the Kabul Military Training Centre. It trains male and female soldiers at the rank of E7 staff sergeant in order to prepare them for service as Sergeant Majors at the ranks of E8 and E9 in the ANA and AAF. The Academy will move to the ANDU site in Qargha on completion of the Phase 2 build project.\n\nThe Non-Commissioned Officer Academy will undertake training of soldiers from all disciplines up to the level of staff sergeant.\n\nThe Institute will deliver training in Foreign Languages for individuals posted into defence diplomacy billets.\n"}
{"id": "12801530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12801530", "title": "Mugar Omni Theater", "text": "Mugar Omni Theater\n\nThe Mugar Omni Theater is a domed IMAX theater at the Museum of Science, in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nThe Mugar Omni is named after Stephen P. Mugar, the founder of Star Market, and his wife Marian G. Mugar. The Mugar Omni is non-profit and opened in 1987. Over 900,000 visitors came in its first year. It is the only domed IMAX theater in New England and is one of only 60 IMAX Theaters in the world to offer 180 degree domed viewing. The seats are set at a steep (cliff-side) angle and recline about thirty degrees, the screen is five stories tall, and the theater is filled with an impressive surround sound system. Because the screen fills a viewer's field of vision (including periphery vision) the screen and surround sound system give viewers the feeling of immersion and motion giving visitors a unique life like experience when viewing films. Viewers must turn their heads left to right up and down to capture all that is going on. The theater only shows films of educational and scientific interest such as: \"Bears\", \"Beavers\", Amazing Caves\", Shackleton's Antarctic Adventure\" and more.\n\nThe average 70mm Omnimax film reel is around 3 miles long, weighs 200 pounds, and needs to be configured manually.\n\n"}
{"id": "37502406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37502406", "title": "Namibia Qualifications Authority", "text": "Namibia Qualifications Authority\n\nThe Namibia Qualifications Authority (NQA) is a statutory body, regulated in terms of the National Qualifications Framework Act No 29 of 1996. It is made up of 29 members appointed by the Minister of Education in consultation with the Minister of Labour. NQA is mandated by legislation to oversee the development and implementation of the National Qualifications Framework (NQF).\n\nThe NQA has the following legislative obligations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28809947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28809947", "title": "Nehale Senior Secondary School", "text": "Nehale Senior Secondary School\n\nNehale Senior Secondary School is a public school in Onayena, Oshikoto Region, Namibia. Established in 1976, it is the second oldest school in the region but also in the entire former Ovamboland. Nehale SSS is named after Nehale Mpingana, king of the Ondonga. The school is located at Onayena, approximately 20 kilometres east of Ondangwa.\n\nIt has a history of exceptional performance with the highest pass rate in the region and the second best preferred school in the region after Oshigambo High School.\nNehale Secondary School is also a cluster centre to the schools in Onayena.It is part of Onathinge education cluster. The school principal is Elifas Iimene.\n\nThe school was established during the colonial era and has not seen major renovations since then. The school obtains most of its funding from the government. This is generally not sufficient to cover running school expenses. Its facilities are thus dilapidated. A broken sewerage system, lack of accommodation for teachers, inadequate laboratory facilities and the lack of a hall are the major challenges.\n\nThe following people have attended or taught at Nehale Senior Secondary:\n\n"}
{"id": "36352733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36352733", "title": "Peer learning", "text": "Peer learning\n\nOne of the most visible approaches to peer learning comes out of cognitive psychology, and is applied within a \"mainstream\" educational framework: \"Peer learning is an educational practice in which students interact with other students to attain educational goals.\" In this context, it can be compared to the practices that go by the name cooperative learning. However, other contemporary views on peer learning relax the constraints, and position \"peer-to-peer learning\" as a mode of \"learning for everyone, by everyone, about almost anything.\" Whether it takes place in a formal or informal learning context, in small groups or online, peer learning manifests aspects of self-organization that are mostly absent from pedagogical models of teaching and learning.\n\nIn his 1916 book, Democracy and Education, John Dewey wrote, “Education is not an affair of 'telling' and being told, but an active and constructive process.” In a later essay, entitled \"Experience and Education\", Dewey went into greater detail about the science of child development and developed the basic Constructivist theory that knowledge is created through experience, rather than passed down from teacher to student through rote memorization. Soviet psychologist Lev Vygotsky, who developed the concept of the Zone of Proximal Development, was another proponent of constructivist learning: his book, \"Thought and Language\", provides evidence that students learn better through collaborative, meaningful problem-solving activities than through solo exercises.\n\nThe three distinguishing features of constructivist theory are claims that:\nThese are clearly meaningful propositions in a social context with sustained relationships, where people work on projects or tasks that are collaborative or otherwise shared.\n\nEducational Psychology Professor Alison King explains in \"Promoting Thinking Through Peer Learning\" that peer learning exercises as simple as having students explain concepts to one another are proof of social constructivism theory at work; the act of teaching another individual demands that students “clarify, elaborate on, and otherwise reconceptualize material.” Joss Winn, Senior Lecturer in Educational Research at University of Lincoln, proposes that schools radically redefine the teacher-student relationship to fit this constructivist theory of knowledge in his December 2011 paper, \"Student as Producer\". Carl Rogers' \"Personal Thoughts on Learning\" focus on the individual’s experience of effective learning, and eventually conclude that nearly the entire traditional educational structure is at odds with this experience. Self-discovered learning in a group that designates a facilitator is the “new approach” Rogers recommends for education.\n\nIn general, peer learning may adapt constructivist or discovery learning methods for the peer-to-peer context: however, peer learning typically manifests constructivist ideas in a more informal way, when learning and collaboration are simply applied to solve some real shared problem.\n\nCritical pedagogy engages students and instructors in analyzing and critiquing power structures around them. The most influential scholar in the development of this field was Paulo Freire, whose book Pedagogy of the Oppressed described the traditional teaching framework as a “banking system” in which students are thought of as empty vessels to be filled with knowledge and concepts. Instead, Freire advocated a more equitable relationship between teachers and students, one in which information is questioned and situated in political context, and all participants in the classroom work together to create knowledge.\n\nFreire’s vision for dialogical education, where learning is situated within students’ lived experience, has been commonly deemed idealistic by modern educators. Yet Paulo Blikstein, Assistant Professor of Education at Stanford University wrote in \"Travels in Troy with Freire: Technology as an Agent of Emancipation\" that through exploratory building activities, “Not only did students become more autonomous and responsible, they learned to teach one another.”\n\nYochai Benkler explains how the now-ubiquitous computer helps us produce and process knowledge together with others in his book, The Wealth of Networks. George Siemens argues in Connectivism: A Learning Theory for the Digital Age, that technology has changed the way we learn, explaining how it tends to complicate or expose the limitations of the learning theories of the past. In practice, the ideas of connectivism developed in and alongside the then-new social formation, \"massive open online courses\" or MOOCs.\n\nConnectivism proposes that the knowledge we can access by virtue of our connections with others is just as valuable as the information carried inside our minds. The learning process, therefore, is not entirely under an individual’s control—learning can happen outside ourselves, as if we are a member of a large organization where many people are continuously updating a shared database.\n\nRita Kop and Adrian Hill, in their critique of connectivism, state that:\n\nIn a joint paper, Roy Williams, Regina Karousou, and Jenny Mackness argue that educational institutions should consider \"emergent learning,\" in which learning arises from a self-organized group interaction, as a valuable component of education in the Digital Age. Web 2.0 puts distributed individuals into a group setting where emergent learning can occur. However, deciding how to manage emergence is important; “fail-safe” management drives activity towards pre-determined outcomes, while “safe/fail experiments” steer away from negative outcomes while leaving space open for mistakes and innovation. Williams \"et al.\" also distinguish between the term “environment” as controlled, and “ecology” as free/open.\n\nCathy Davidson and David Theo Goldberg write in \"The Future of Learning Institutions in a Digital Age\" about the potential of “participatory learning,” and a new paradigm of education that is focused on mediated interactions between peers.\nThey argue that if institutions of higher learning could begin to value this type of learning, instead of simply trying to implement “Instructional Technology” in classrooms, they could transform old models of university education. Davidson and Goldberg introduce “Ten Principles for the Future of Learning,” which include self-learning, horizontal structures, and open source education. Peter Sloterdijk's recent book \"You Must Change Your Life\" proposes similar ideas in the context of a \"General Disciplinics\" that would \"counteract the atrophy of the educational system\" by focusing on forms of learning that takes place through direct participation in the disciplines. (p. 156)\n\nYochai Benkler & Helen Nissenbaum discuss implications for the realm of moral philosophy in their 2006 essay, \n\"Commons-Based Peer Production and Virtue\". They argue that the “socio-technical systems” of today’s Internet make it easier for people to role-model and adopt positive, virtuous behaviors on a large scale.\n\nJoseph Corneli and Charles Jeffrey Danoff proposed the label “paragogy” to describe a collection of “best practices of effective peer learning.” They published a short book\nalong with several papers in which they discuss five \"paragogical principles\" that form the core of their proposed learning theory. These were generated by rethinking Malcolm Knowles principles of andragogy for a learning context that is co-created by the learners.\n\nThe learning theories and approaches described above are currently being tested in peer-learning communities around the world, often adapting educational technology to support informal learning, though results in formal learning contexts exist too. For example, Eric Mazur and colleagues report on \"Ten years of experience and results\" with a teaching technique they call \"Peer Instruction\":\n\nThis approach made early use of a variant of the technique that is now known as the \"flipped classroom\":\n\nPeer 2 Peer University, or P2PU, which was founded in 2009 by Philipp Schmidt and others, is an example from the informal learning side. Speaking about the beginnings of P2PU, Schmidt echoes Siemens’ connectivism ideas and explains that, “The expertise is in the group. That’s the message, that everyone can bring something to the conversation.” In numerous public talks, Schmidt argues that current educational models are \"broken\" (particularly on the basis of the high cost of university-level training). He suggests that social assessment mechanisms similar to those applied in open-source software development can be applied to education. In practice, this approach uses peer-based assessment including recommendations and badges to provide an alternative form of accreditation.\n\nJeff Young’s article in the Chronicle of Higher Education, \"When Professors Print Their Own Diplomas\", sparked a conversation about the necessity of formal degrees in an age when class lectures can be uploaded for free. The MIT Open Teaching initiative, for example, has since 2001 put all of its course materials online. But David A. Wiley, then Psychology Professor at Utah State, went further, signing certificates for whoever takes his class. A similar practice has become even more visible in learning projects like Udacity, Coursera, and EdX. Although these projects attempt to \"scale education\" by distributing learning materials produced by experts (not classic examples of peer learning), they do frequently feature peer-to-peer discussions in forums or offline.\n\nIn the forward to a book on the \"Power of peer learning\" by Jean-H. Guilmette, Maureen O'Neil, then president of Canada's International Development Research Centre, states that\n\nGuilmette suggests that peer learning is useful in the development context because\n\nGuilmette cites Anne K. Bernard, who in a report based on extensive interviews, concludes:\n\nScardamalia and Bereiter explain in \"Computer Support for Knowledge-Building Communities\" that computers in the classroom have the opportunity to restructure the learning environment, but too often they are simply used to provide a digital version of a normal lesson or exam. They propose that classrooms be exchanged for “knowledge-building communities” where students can use computers to connect to and create knowledge in the outside world. However, as illustrated in citations above, this way of thinking about learning is often at odds with traditional educational praxis.\n\nIn \"The Role of the Learning Platform in Student-Centered E-Learning\", Kurliha, Miettinen, Nokelainen, and Tirri found a \"difference in\nlearning outcomes based on the tools used.\" However, the variables at work are not well understood, and are the subject of ongoing research. Within a formal education setting, a 1994 study found that students were more responsive to feedback from a teacher than they were to peer feedback. However, another later study showed that training in assessment techniques had a positive impact on individual student performance.\n\nA classic study on motivation in peer tutoring showed that \"reward is no motivator.\" Although other more recent work has shown that non-monetary rewards or acknowledgement can make a difference in \"performance\" (for certain populations of peer producers), the exact motivations for going out of the way to teach or tutor someone else are not clearly understood. As mentioned above, learning is often just part of solving a problem, so \"peer learning\" and \"peer teaching\" would tend to happen informally when people solve problems in groups.\n\nResearch on peer learning may involve participant observation, and may itself be peer produced. Some of this research falls under the broader umbrella of Scholarship of Teaching and Learning. Computer-supported collaborative learning is one obvious context in which to study peer learning, since in such settings \"learning is observably and accountably embedded in collaborative activity.\" However, peer learning can play a role in settings where traditional conceptions of both \"teaching\" and \"learning\" do not apply, for instance, in academic peer review, in organizational learning, in development work, and in public health programmes. Research in these areas may fall within the area of organization science, science, technology and society (STS) or other fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "43697911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43697911", "title": "Philip Cummings", "text": "Philip Cummings\n\nPhilip Harry Cummings (1906-1991) was a world traveler, teacher of Modern Languages, and paid lecturer and news analyst. He was born and grew up in Hardwick, Vermont. He received a B.A. in Modern Languages from Rollins College in 1929, and an M.A. in Spanish from Middlebury College, 1932. He began but did not complete a Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. One article from his research there was published in the professional journal \"Hispania\".\n\nCummings was a great traveler and made sixteen transatlantic crossings between ages 19 and 29. He is remembered as a remarkable (positive) character, the sort of man you never forget.\n\nCummings sometimes wrote to important people, including the eminent Spanish scholar Miguel de Unamuno, \"cold\" and was able to meet them. He was introduced to Alfonso XIII, King of Spain at court and got to know the Spanish Royal Family and the Duke of Alba.\n\nOne of the most important episodes in Cummings's life was the ten days he spent with his friend and lover, Spanish poet and playwright Federico García Lorca, in August 1929. The two met in Madrid in 1928 and spent another brief time together when Lorca was en route to New York in June 1929. At the conclusion of the Columbia University summer session of 1929, Lorca went by train to Burlington, Vermont, and from there to the Cummings family's summer rental cottage in Eden Mills, Vermont. During that visit, Cummings translated Lorca's book \"Canciones\" (\"Songs\") into English, with Lorca's advice on key points. This is the only translation of Lorca's work into any language in which he is known to have participated. During this period, Lorca also wrote several poems that became part of his book \"Poeta en Nueva York\".\n\nCummings and Lorca renewed their friendship in the fall of 1930 when Cummings returned to Madrid on a IIE fellowship. He returned to the United States abruptly the following spring on the advice of his IIE sponsors, just before Alfonso XIII left the throne. There is no evidence that Cummings ever saw Lorca again, although they may have continued to exchange letters.\n\nCummings claimed to have destroyed an autobiographical manuscript that Lorca left with him in 1929, but there is no independent evidence that the manuscript ever existed, and Cummings is far from a reliable source.\n\nIn the midst of the Great Depression, Cummings was happy to get a job teaching Spanish, French, and German at the Valley Ranch School for Boys in Cody, Wyoming. He kept a detailed diary of his first year there. One portion, dealing with a school holiday visit to the South Dakota capital, Pierre, has been published, and the rest is being prepared for publication. The school closed in 1934.\n\nStarting in 1938, Cummings began a new career as a paid lecturer and news analyst. He was represented by various agencies; in the 1950s he was represented by the W. Colston Leigh agency of New York, Washington, and San Francisco, where he joined a roster of speakers that included such famous names as David Brinkley, Vance Packard, and Eleanor Roosevelt. Cummings's appeal as a lecturer was reflected in his billing as the agency's top repeat speaker on world affairs.\n\nHe made his home for many years in Woodstock, Vermont.\n\n"}
{"id": "48533270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48533270", "title": "Planetary civilization", "text": "Planetary civilization\n\nA planetary civilization or global civilization is a civilization of Type I on Kardashev scale, with energy consumption levels near that of a contemporary terrestrial civilization with an energy capability equivalent to the solar insolation on Earth (between 10 and 10 watts). In social aspect the worldwide, global, increasingly interconnected, international, highly technological society.\n\nSoviet astronomer Nikolai Kardashev in a work \"Transmission of Information by Extraterrestrial Civilizations\", published in 1964, proposed the scale of technological development of civilization, based on the amount of energy that civilization is able to utilize, then named Kardashev scale.\n\nA Type I civilization is planetary, consuming all energy that is available from a neighboring star, or about 10 watts.\nA Type II civilization is stellar, consuming all the energy that their star emits, or 10 watts. A type III civilization is galactic, consuming the energy of billions of stars, or about 10 watts.\n\nCarl Sagan suggested defining intermediate values (not considered in Kardashev's original scale) by interpolating and extrapolating, according to his calculations, the modern state of the present human civilization is expressed by a value about 0.7.\n\nTheoretical physicist Michio Kaku, in a book, \"Physics of the Future\", published in 2011, stated that humans with an average economic growth may attain planetary civilization status in 100 years.\nHowever, if we were to be able to exponentially increase our development, our planet may attain planetary civilisation status much sooner. This means we can see evidence of this everywhere we go. The internet is the beginning of planetary telecommunication system. The European Union is the beginning of a Type I economy. English will probably be the planetary language, as you can go anywhere on the planet Earth and the educated already speak English and are bi-lingual. Also, on the Internet, the number one language is English, followed by Mandarin. A planetary culture is emerging, based on youth culture (hip-hop, rock, and youth fashion), movies (Hollywood blockbusters), high fashion (luxury goods). That same kind of culture, youth culture, the culture of the rich, is now going around the planet Earth.\nYou see the beginning of planetary sports, the Olympics, soccer games. Realize that in the old days, you had competition between tribes. Now we have games not just between small provinces, but games that envelop the entire planet Earth. Innovation and discovery are changing the entire economic, political, and social landscape, overturning all the old cherished beliefs and prejudices.\n\nMichio Kaku, in his interview \"Will Mankind Destroy Itself?\" with the website \"Big Think\" discusses a danger of a transition to a planetary civilization. The danger period is now, because we still have the savagery, but we also have nuclear weapons:\n\nPlanetary civilizations are various civilizations we see in science fiction. Michio Kaku qualifies as one of a typical\nType I civilization would be that of Buck Rogers or Flash Gordon, where an entire planet’s energy resources have been developed. They can control all planetary sources of energy, so\nthey might be able to control or modify the weather at will, harness the power of a hurricane,\nor have cities on the oceans. Although they roam the heavens in rockets, their energy output is\nstill largely confined to a planet.\n\nOn the Kardashev scale, the next status is Type II civilization, where a civilization consumes all the energy that their star emits, or about 10 watts. Michio Kaku in a book \"Physics of the Future\" suggests that humans may attain stellar civilization status in a few thousand years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39570541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39570541", "title": "Pop Culture Classroom", "text": "Pop Culture Classroom\n\nPop Culture Classroom, based in Denver, Colorado, is a nonprofit organization that educates in the areas of literacy and arts through alternative approaches to learning and character development. The organization creates educational programs for underserved youths, schools and communities by using comic books, graphic novels and related media to inspire passion for reading, art, and learning.\n\nPop Culture Classroom was founded in 2010 as Comic Book Classroom, a Colorado charitable organization focused on enhancing and improving student’s learning experience through the use of comic book media. At the same time, the founders of Comic Book Classroom also created the Denver Comic Con event. The Original Founders of Comic Book Classroom and Denver Comic Con are Charlie LaGreca, Frank Romero, David Vinson and Kevin Vinson.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2012, the Original Founders were joined by accomplished educators Illya Kowalchuk and Christina Angel, and experienced event organizers Michael Newman and Bruce Macintosh, who became an integral part of organizational development as the foundations of both Comic Book Classroom and Denver Comic Con educational programs were developed simultaneously.\n\nThe Classroom program debuted the first version of its “Storytelling Through Comics” curriculum to local area schools, and with the help of hundreds of dedicated volunteers and generous donations, the Denver Comic Con event became a reality on Father’s Day weekend, June 15, 2012. It was an unexpected and overwhelming success. The 2013 and 2014 Denver Comic Con’s built on that success.\n\nProceeds from Denver Comic Con fund the staffing, supplies and infrastructure of The Classroom program that promotes literacy through the medium of sequential art and storytelling. “Storytelling Through Comics” is a graphic literature creation program that is offered free of charge to schools, teachers and community organizations. The program currently offers students an educational experience that includes instruction in reading & vocabulary, writing stories, and eventually the creation of the students’ own comics. Completed entries are then published in a class collection.\n\nIn 2014, the Comic Book Classroom Board of Directors voted to change the name to Pop Culture Classroom (PCC). The name change reflects the board’s broader vision for the organization. In addition to expanding the reach of our comic-based curriculum, PCC seeks to use other elements of pop culture to advance our mission of literacy education and to spark the creative spirit within every child.\n\nThe need for literacy education in Colorado inspired the CBC program. High percentages of elementary and middle school-aged children in Colorado do not have or cannot afford after-school care. Additionally, several studies show that children who receive arts education often outperform children who do not in most educational areas.\n\nPop Culture Classroom’s “Storytelling Through Comics” curriculum is designed to educate 11- to 14-year-old students (grades 5-8) about literacy and the arts. The common core curriculum enhances students’ writing and reading abilities and artistic skills through an interactive educational experience focused around comic books and graphic novels. It can be offered as an after-school course, a stand-alone unit, or as a complement to an existing language arts curriculum in a classroom.\n\nThe six-week program is broken out into a series of distinct lesson modules:\n\n• The Joy of Reading: Students learn the terms associated with the creation, design and reading of comics and gain an understanding of the enjoyment and personal fulfillment associated with the medium.<br>\n• Visual & Textual Storytelling: Students learn about storytelling arcs and define exposition, event, rising action, crisis, falling action and conclusion. Participants begin drafting their own short comic strip using the storytelling arc as a template.<br>\n• Dialogue: Students are introduced to dialogue as a narrative device and begin scripting their stories.<br>\n• Analyzing Conflict Resolution through Dialogue and Using an Outline: Students learn how dialogue reveals conflict and resolution in comics and learn the technique of reverse outlining to pace their stories.<br>\n• Basic Drawing for Comics: Students learn basic drawing techniques from a guest artist.<br>\n• Creating Comics and the “Author’s Chair” Celebration: Students finish their comic story using techniques taught in previous modules and celebrate their achievement.<br>\n<br>\nThe CBC curriculum is designed to meet the needs of early and challenged readers as well as students in more advanced stages of literacy. The curriculum includes dialogue around text and image, discussion and use of vocabulary and terminology. \nThe larger goals of the curriculum are to teach literacy and arts engagement while fostering identity growth, positive peer relationships, communication skills, and community development among young people.\n\nEach local graduate receives a customized one-day ticket for themselves and a caregiver to Denver Comic Con. At the convention, graduates are welcomed as guests of honor. Additionally, they are given the chance to work with industry professionals in the Comic Book Classroom Corral, sell sketches to attendees, and further their understanding that popular culture has a valuable place in society and represents a viable career path. Graduates also receive a graduate package that includes the Denver Comic Con pass as well as a graduation certificate, custom CBC pencil, button, and sketchpad.\n\nIn addition, Denver Comic Con offers free admission to 200 educators annually during its Educator’s Day on Friday.\n\nPop Culture Classroom’s programming includes:\n\nIn-schools programs\n\nOnline Resources\nComic Book Classroom Kids’ Corral\n\nThe focal point of the annual Denver Comic Con is the Comic Book Classroom Kids’ Corral, which is designed to spotlight the CBC program, its students, and graduates. The 5000-square foot activity center provides educational youth-based programming and activities for younger attendees and families. In addition, many Denver Comic Con guests have donated their time and talents to working with students in the CBC Kids’ Corral.\n\nProgramming is conducted by volunteers, many of whom are trained arts educator or comic industry professionals. In addition to actively teaching in classrooms and after-school programs, volunteers provide administrative support, curriculum/assessment development, comic and literature reviews, outreach, website development, fundraising and event planning.\n\nSince the first Pop Culture Classroom program was conducted at Force Elementary School (Denver Public Schools) in the spring of 2010, Pop Culture Classroom has impacted over 400 students in the Denver metro region. The organization has conducted programs at over a dozen elementary and middle schools in the Denver area as well as community organizations such as the Boys & Girls Club of Metro Denver and the WOW! Children's Museum of Lafayette, Colorado.\n\nSupplementary support for CBC’s educational programming is provided by the Stan Lee Foundation and the national non-for-profit organization Generation Schools. In 2013, actor William Shatner appeared in the Pop Culture Classroom's \"Corral\" at Denver Comic Con to read Maurice Sendak's children's book Where The Wild Things Are in support of Pop Culture Classroom.\n"}
{"id": "24982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24982", "title": "Psychometrics", "text": "Psychometrics\n\nPsychometrics is a field of study concerned with the theory and technique of psychological measurement. As defined by the National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME), psychometrics refers to psychological measurement. Generally, it refers to the field in psychology and education that is devoted to testing, measurement, assessment, and related activities.\n\nThe field is concerned with the objective measurement of skills and knowledge, abilities, attitudes, personality traits, and educational achievement. Some psychometric researchers focus on the construction and validation of assessment instruments such as questionnaires, tests, raters' judgments, and personality tests. Others focus on research relating to measurement theory (e.g., item response theory; intraclass correlation).\n\nPractitioners are described as psychometricians. Psychometricians usually possess a specific qualification, and most are psychologists with advanced graduate training. In addition to traditional academic institutions, many psychometricians work for the government or in human resources departments. Others specialize as learning and development professionals.\n\nPsychological testing has come from two streams of thought: the first, from Darwin, Galton, and Cattell on the measurement of individual differences, and the second, from Herbart, Weber, Fechner, and Wundt and their psychophysical measurements of a similar construct. The second set of individuals and their research is what has led to the development of experimental psychology, and standardized testing.\n\nCharles Darwin was the inspiration behind Sir Francis Galton who led to the creation of psychometrics. In 1859, Darwin published his book \"The Origin of Species\", which pertained to individual differences in animals. This book discussed how individual members in a species differ and how they possess characteristics that are more adaptive and successful or less adaptive and less successful. Those who are adaptive and successful are the ones that survive and give way to the next generation, who would be just as or more adaptive and successful. This idea, studied previously in animals, led to Galton's interest and study of human beings and how they differ one from another, and more importantly, how to measure those differences.\n\nGalton wrote a book entitled \"Hereditary Genius\" about different characteristics that people possess and how those characteristics make them more \"fit\" than others. Today these differences, such as sensory and motor functioning (reaction time, visual acuity, and physical strength) are important domains of scientific psychology. Much of the early theoretical and applied work in psychometrics was undertaken in an attempt to measure intelligence. Galton, often referred to as \"the father of psychometrics,\" devised and included mental tests among his anthropometric measures. James McKeen Cattell, who is considered a pioneer of psychometrics went on to extend Galton's work. Cattell also coined the term \"mental test\", and is responsible for the research and knowledge which ultimately led to the development of modern tests. (Kaplan & Saccuzzo, 2010)\n\nThe origin of psychometrics also has connections to the related field of psychophysics. Around the same time that Darwin, Galton, and Cattell were making their discoveries, Herbart was also interested in \"unlocking the mysteries of human consciousness\" through the scientific method. (Kaplan & Saccuzzo, 2010) Herbart was responsible for creating mathematical models of the mind, which were influential in educational practices in years to come.\n\nE.H. Weber built upon Herbart's work and tried to prove the existence of a psychological threshold, saying that a minimum stimulus was necessary to activate a sensory system. After Weber, G.T. Fechner expanded upon the knowledge he gleaned from Herbart and Weber, to devise the law that the strength of a sensation grows as the logarithm of the stimulus intensity. A follower of Weber and Fechner, Wilhelm Wundt is credited with founding the science of psychology. It is Wundt's influence that paved the way for others to develop psychological testing.\n\nThe psychometrician L. L. Thurstone, founder and first president of the Psychometric Society in 1936, developed and applied a theoretical approach to measurement referred to as the law of comparative judgment, an approach that has close connections to the psychophysical theory of Ernst Heinrich Weber and Gustav Fechner. In addition, Spearman and Thurstone both made important contributions to the theory and application of factor analysis, a statistical method developed and used extensively in psychometrics. In the late 1950s, Leopold Szondi made an historical and epistemological assessment of the impact of statistical thinking onto psychology during previous few decades: \"in the last decades, the specifically psychological thinking has been almost completely suppressed and removed, and replaced by a statistical thinking. Precisely here we see the cancer of testology and testomania of today.\"\n\nMore recently, psychometric theory has been applied in the measurement of personality, attitudes, and beliefs, and academic achievement. Measurement of these unobservable phenomena is difficult, and much of the research and accumulated science in this discipline has been developed in an attempt to properly define and quantify such phenomena. Critics, including practitioners in the physical sciences and social activists, have argued that such definition and quantification is impossibly difficult, and that such measurements are often misused, such as with psychometric personality tests used in employment procedures:\n\nFigures who made significant contributions to psychometrics include Karl Pearson, Henry F. Kaiser, Carl Brigham, L. L. Thurstone, Anne Anastasi, Georg Rasch, Eugene Galanter, Johnson O'Connor, Frederic M. Lord, Ledyard R Tucker, Arthur Jensen, and David Andrich.\n\nThe definition of measurement in the social sciences has a long history. A currently widespread definition, proposed by Stanley Smith Stevens (1946), is that measurement is \"the assignment of numerals to objects or events according to some rule.\" This definition was introduced in the paper in which Stevens proposed four levels of measurement. Although widely adopted, this definition differs in important respects from the more classical definition of measurement adopted in the physical sciences, namely that scientific measurement entails \"the estimation or discovery of the ratio of some magnitude of a quantitative attribute to a unit of the same attribute\" (p. 358)\n\nIndeed, Stevens's definition of measurement was put forward in response to the British Ferguson Committee, whose chair, A. Ferguson, was a physicist. The committee was appointed in 1932 by the British Association for the Advancement of Science to investigate the possibility of quantitatively estimating sensory events. Although its chair and other members were physicists, the committee also included several psychologists. The committee's report highlighted the importance of the definition of measurement. While Stevens's response was to propose a new definition, which has had considerable influence in the field, this was by no means the only response to the report. Another, notably different, response was to accept the classical definition, as reflected in the following statement:\n\nThese divergent responses are reflected in alternative approaches to measurement. For example, methods based on covariance matrices are typically employed on the premise that numbers, such as raw scores derived from assessments, are measurements. Such approaches implicitly entail Stevens's definition of measurement, which requires only that numbers are \"assigned\" according to some rule. The main research task, then, is generally considered to be the discovery of associations between scores, and of factors posited to underlie such associations.\n\nOn the other hand, when measurement models such as the Rasch model are employed, numbers are not assigned based on a rule. Instead, in keeping with Reese's statement above, specific criteria for measurement are stated, and the goal is to construct procedures or operations that provide data that meet the relevant criteria. Measurements are estimated based on the models, and tests are conducted to ascertain whether the relevant criteria have been met.\n\nThe firstpsychometric instruments were designed to measure the concept of intelligence. One historical approach involved the Stanford-Binet IQ test, developed originally by the French psychologist Alfred Binet. Intelligence tests are useful tools for various purposes. An alternative conception of intelligence is that cognitive capacities within individuals are a manifestation of a general component, or general intelligence factor, as well as cognitive capacity specific to a given domain.\n\nPsychometrics is applied widely in educational assessment to measure abilities in domains such as reading, writing, and mathematics. The main approaches in applying tests in these domains have been classical test theory and the more recent Item Response Theory and Rasch measurement models. These latter approaches permit joint scaling of persons and assessment items, which provides a basis for mapping of developmental continua by allowing descriptions of the skills displayed at various points along a continuum.\n\nAnother major focus in psychometrics has been on personality testing. There have been a range of theoretical approaches to conceptualizing and measuring personality. Some of the better known instruments include the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, the Five-Factor Model (or \"Big 5\") and tools such as Personality and Preference Inventory and the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator. Attitudes have also been studied extensively using psychometric approaches. A common method in the measurement of attitudes is the use of the Likert scale. An alternative method involves the application of unfolding measurement models, the most general being the Hyperbolic Cosine Model (Andrich & Luo, 1993).\n\nPsychometricians have developed a number of different measurement theories. These include classical test theory (CTT) and item response theory (IRT). An approach which seems mathematically to be similar to IRT but also quite distinctive, in terms of its origins and features, is represented by the Rasch model for measurement. The development of the Rasch model, and the broader class of models to which it belongs, was explicitly founded on requirements of measurement in the physical sciences.\n\nPsychometricians have also developed methods for working with large matrices of correlations and covariances. Techniques in this general tradition include: factor analysis, a method of determining the underlying dimensions of data; multidimensional scaling, a method for finding a simple representation for data with a large number of latent dimensions; and data clustering, an approach to finding objects that are like each other. All these multivariate descriptive methods try to distill large amounts of data into simpler structures. More recently, structural equation modeling and path analysis represent more sophisticated approaches to working with large covariance matrices. These methods allow statistically sophisticated models to be fitted to data and tested to determine if they are adequate fits.\n\nOne of the main deficiencies in various factor analyses is a lack of consensus in cutting points for determining the number of latent factors. A usual procedure is to stop factoring when eigenvalues drop below one because the original sphere shrinks. The lack of the cutting points concerns other multivariate methods, also.\n\nKey concepts in classical test theory are reliability and validity. A reliable measure is one that measures a construct consistently across time, individuals, and situations. A valid measure is one that measures what it is intended to measure. Reliability is necessary, but not sufficient, for validity.\n\nBoth reliability and validity can be assessed statistically. Consistency over repeated measures of the same test can be assessed with the Pearson correlation coefficient, and is often called \"test-retest reliability.\" Similarly, the equivalence of different versions of the same measure can be indexed by a Pearson correlation, and is called \"equivalent forms reliability\" or a similar term.\n\nInternal consistency, which addresses the homogeneity of a single test form, may be assessed by correlating performance on two halves of a test, which is termed \"split-half reliability\"; the value of this Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient for two half-tests is adjusted with the Spearman–Brown prediction formula to correspond to the correlation between two full-length tests. Perhaps the most commonly used index of reliability is Cronbach's α, which is equivalent to the mean of all possible split-half coefficients. Other approaches include the intra-class correlation, which is the ratio of variance of measurements of a given target to the variance of all targets.\n\nThere are a number of different forms of validity. Criterion-related validity can be assessed by correlating a measure with a criterion measure theoretically expected to be related. When the criterion measure is collected at the same time as the measure being validated the goal is to establish \"concurrent validity\"; when the criterion is collected later the goal is to establish \"predictive validity\". A measure has \"construct validity\" if it is related to measures of other constructs as required by theory. \"Content validity\" is a demonstration that the items of a test do an adequate job of covering the domain being measured. In a personnel selection example, test content is based on a defined statement or set of statements of knowledge, skill, ability, or other characteristics obtained from a \"job analysis\".\n\nItem response theory models the relationship between latent traits and responses to test items. Among other advantages, IRT provides a basis for obtaining an estimate of the location of a test-taker on a given latent trait as well as the standard error of measurement of that location. For example, a university student's knowledge of history can be deduced from his or her score on a university test and then be compared reliably with a high school student's knowledge deduced from a less difficult test. Scores derived by classical test theory do not have this characteristic, and assessment of actual ability (rather than ability relative to other test-takers) must be assessed by comparing scores to those of a \"norm group\" randomly selected from the population. In fact, all measures derived from classical test theory are dependent on the sample tested, while, in principle, those derived from item response theory are not.\n\nMany psychometricians are also concerned with finding and eliminating test bias from their psychological tests. Test bias is a form of systematic (i.e., non-random) error which leads to examinees from one demographic group having an unwarranted advantage over examinees from another demographic group. According to leading experts, test bias may cause differences in average scores across demographic groups, but differences in group scores are not sufficient evidence that test bias is actually present because the test could be measuring real differences among groups. Psychometricians use sophisticated scientific methods to search for test bias and eliminate it. Research shows that it is usually impossible for people reading a test item to accurately determine whether it is biased or not.\n\nThe considerations of validity and reliability typically are viewed as essential elements for determining the quality of any test. However, professional and practitioner associations frequently have placed these concerns within broader contexts when developing standards and making overall judgments about the quality of any test as a whole within a given context. A consideration of concern in many applied research settings is whether or not the metric of a given psychological inventory is meaningful or arbitrary.\n\nIn 2014, the American Educational Research Association (AERA), American Psychological Association (APA), and National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME) published a revision of the \"Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing\", which describes standards for test development, evaluation, and use. The \"Standards\" cover essential topics in testing including validity, reliability/errors of measurement, and fairness in testing. The book also establishes standards related to testing operations including test design and development, scores, scales, norms, score linking, cut scores, test administration, scoring, reporting, score interpretation, test documentation, and rights and responsibilities of test takers and test users. Finally, the \"Standards\" cover topics related to testing applications, including psychological testing and assessment, workplace testing and credentialing, educational testing and assessment, and testing in program evaluation and public policy.\n\nIn the field of evaluation, and in particular educational evaluation, the Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation has published three sets of standards for evaluations. \"The Personnel Evaluation Standards\" was published in 1988, \"The Program Evaluation Standards\" (2nd edition) was published in 1994, and \"The Student Evaluation Standards\" was published in 2003.\n\nEach publication presents and elaborates a set of standards for use in a variety of educational settings. The standards provide guidelines for designing, implementing, assessing and improving the identified form of evaluation. Each of the standards has been placed in one of four fundamental categories to promote educational evaluations that are proper, useful, feasible, and accurate. In these sets of standards, validity and reliability considerations are covered under the accuracy topic. For example, the student accuracy standards help ensure that student evaluations will provide sound, accurate, and credible information about student learning and performance.\n\nPsychometrics addresses \"human\" abilities, attitudes, traits and educational evolution. Notably, the study of behavior, mental processes and abilities of non-human \"animals\" is usually addressed by comparative psychology, or with a continuum between non-human animals and the rest of animals by evolutionary psychology. Nonetheless there are some advocators for a more gradual transition between the approach taken for humans and the approach taken for (non-human) animals.\nThe evaluation of abilities, traits and learning evolution of \"machines\" has been mostly unrelated to the case of humans and non-human animals, with specific approaches in the area of artificial intelligence. A more integrated approach, under the name of universal psychometrics, has also been proposed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24769960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24769960", "title": "RMIT School of Vocational Engineering, Health and Sciences", "text": "RMIT School of Vocational Engineering, Health and Sciences\n\nThe RMIT School of Vocational Engineering, Health and Sciences is an Australian vocational education school within the College of Science Engineering and Health of RMIT University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4436362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4436362", "title": "Runar Søgaard", "text": "Runar Søgaard\n\n\"Runar Søgaard\" (born 27 June 1967 in Kongsvinger, Hedmark, Norway) is a Norwegian leadership trainer, life-coach and motivational speaker. He was earlier married to singer Carola Häggkvist.\n\nIn May 2004 he created some reaction during a speech in Stockholm, by saying that the Islamic prophet Muhammad had been a pedophile. This led to some condemnation and protests. During the same sermon he also made disparaging remarks about Jesus and Siddharta. Søgaard received threats from radical Islamists. Author and columnist Jan Guillou at the Aftonbladet news paper called for calm and wrote \"it would be of great harm for Sweden's Muslims if Søgaard was harmed\".\n\nIn 2012 his business Vinger Consulting AB was threatened with bankruptcy following a lawsuit by On Strategies LLC. In November 2014, Søgaard was convicted for a third time of violating accounting laws, and sentenced by Nacka district court to two months of prison. Søgaard has declared he will appeal the sentence.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2000 Søgaard was married to the successful Swedish singer Carola Häggkvist. Together they have a son, Amadeus, born in 1998. He married for a second time in 2008 and has two sons in that marriage. Søgaard is a good friend of Swedish-Nigerian artist Dr. Alban, retired footballer Thomas Brolin and table tennis player Jan-Ove Waldner. They are often seen together in Stockholm.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114156", "title": "SNAPI", "text": "SNAPI\n\nSNAPI is a system that allows a user to record their preferences onto a smart card or other security token.\n\nWhen a card, mobile phone, key fob token or similar portable object containing SNAPI data is put into public or share IT equipment, or moved into the field of the equipment’s sensor, it informs the terminal about the user’s preferred user interface. The terminal could be a shared personal computer, a public kiosk, a ticket machine, a turnstile or an automated teller machine (ATM). This can enable various accessibility modes such as a high-contrast display or increased typeface size, audible prompts, increased time for responses for the duration of the transaction. When the transaction is complete, the terminal returns to its default settings. The coding is specified in the European standard EN 1332-4. It has been supported by Lasseo to include SNAPI coding is included in various UK local authority smart card schemes\n"}
{"id": "919347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=919347", "title": "Southwest University of Political Science &amp; Law", "text": "Southwest University of Political Science &amp; Law\n\nSouthwest University of Political Science and Law (SWUPL) is a national public university located in Chongqing.\n\nIt was founded in 1953 with the original name Southwest College of Political Science and Law. It was one of the oldest Faculty of Political Science and Law after the People's Republic of China was established. Its law school ranks 3rd among all the law schools in China. Notable alumni include Liang Huixing, Liang Zhiping, He Weifang, and Zhang Xinbao.\n\nZhou Qiang, grade 1978 graduate from the Law Department of SWUPL, was elected president of the Supreme People's Court of China at the fifth plenary meeting of the first session of the 12th National People's Congress (NPC) in Beijing on March 15, 2013.\n\nAs one of the oldest political science and law universities in China, Southwest University of Political Science and Law (SWUPL) developed from the Department of Political Science and Law at Southwest University of People’s Revolution which was founded in 1950, with Marshal Liu Bocheng as the university president.\n\nIn 1953, SWUPL was officially established through merging the Political Science and Law departments of Chongqing University and Sichuan University, the Law departments of Chongqing Finance and Economy College, and of Guizhou University and Yunnan University.\n\nIn 1978, the University was accredited as a key university by the State Council. In 2000, the administration of the University was transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Chongqing municipality, thus creating a system of co-administration between the central and local government.\n\nIn 2003, it was approved as one of the first universities to grant doctoral degree of first-level legal discipline. In 2004, it established one post-doctorate mobile station of Law. In 2007, SWUPL was awarded as “excellent undergraduate education” by Ministry of Education.\n\nIn 2008, SWUPL became the key university co-administrated by Ministry of Education and Chongqing Municipality.\n\nSWUPL became the first University in Chongqing co-administrated by the Ministry and Municipality. On October 24, 2012.\n\nThe University has three campuses, the main in Yubei, the other two in Shapingba and Baoshenghu, covering a total area of 3136.17 mu. There are 14 schools, including School of Civil and Commercial law, School of Economic Law, Law School, School of Administrative Law, School of International Law, School of Criminal investigation, School of Marxism, School of Juris Master, School of Management, School of Politics and Public Administration, School of Journalism and Communication, School of Foreign Languages, School of Applied Law, and School of Economics.\n\nIt offers 20 bachelor’s programs, 37 master’s programs of sub-disciplines, 4 professional master’s programs and 10 doctoral programs of sub-discipline, and 2 national key disciplines. The University has postdoctoral center for legal research and 6 provincial key bases for humanity and social science research. It has 1421 faculty and staff members, among which 1157 are full-time. It has 5159 postgraduates and 18591 undergraduates. The University’s library boasts a collection of more than 4,200,000 books.\n\nSWUPL has international exchange programs with over 60 universities from U.S., United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan, Thailand, and South Korea. In 2014, SWUPL and Coventry University established China's only undergraduate Sino-UK English Law programme. SWUPL and University of Montana have also jointly established the first Confucius Institute in Northwest of U.S. In 2011, SWUPL and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) signed a cooperation agreement on the International Training Centre for local Authorities Project. The project, with a total of 100 million US dollars investment, will build training center in SWUPL and make full use of the training resources of the United Nations.\n\n63 years since the foundation of the University, SWUPL has developed a multi-level and multi-type higher education for undergraduates, postgraduates, doctoral candidates, and international students, and has educated more than 200,000 high ranking specialized personnel. It is the university that provided the most law personnel for the country. A large number of alumni have become backbones and leading figures in law field and other professions.\n\nThe University consist of Shapingba and Yubei Campuses in Chongqing municipality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13258797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13258797", "title": "Thinking Maps", "text": "Thinking Maps\n\nThinking Maps are a set of techniques used in primary and secondary education (\"K-12\"). There are eight diagram types that are intended to correspond with eight different fundamental thinking processes. They are supposed to provide a common visual language to information structure, often employed when students take notes.\n\nThinking Maps are visual tools for learning, and include eight visual patterns each linked to a specific cognitive process. Teachers may apply Thinking Maps in all content areas and all grade levels. The eight map types are:\n\nBy linking each thinking skill to a unique and dynamic visual representation, the language of Thinking Maps becomes a tool set for supporting effective instructional practice and improving student performance. Teachers and students, therefore, independently apply thinking skills for their own learning while also having a common visual language for cooperative learning. By having a rich language of visual maps based on thinking processes, learners are no longer confused by poorly organized brainstorming webs or an endless array of static graphic organizers. They are enabled to move from concrete to abstract concepts, think with depth, and directly apply their thinking to complex tasks.\n\nThinking Maps are a specific set of graphic Thinking organizers used in K-12 classroom settings, or \"visual teaching tools that foster and encourage life-long learning,\" as well as tol that provide students with the skills to be \"successful thinkers, problem solvers, [and] decision makers\" (Thinking Maps Inc., Pamphlet). Maps were founded as,\"a good skill for the mind\" quoted by Dr. Mark Davidson, scholarly teacher of accelerated classes. What he says is that the \"one common instructional thread that binds together all teachers, from prekindergarten through postgraduate, is that they all teach the same thought processes\" (Thinking Maps Inc., Pamphlet). For example, the thought process of classification might be taught in kindergarten by sorting or grouping, whereas classification in the upper grades might be taught as categorizing a main idea and details. Although we refer to classifying items, concepts, or ideas in different ways with different aged students, the thought process in its entirety is considered classification.\n\nWith this belief that all teachers, no matter the grade level, teach the same thought processes, these common set of visual organizers was created by Dr. David Hyerle as a type of language to be used across grade levels, content areas, and disciplines so that \"students could learn more effectively and more efficiently.\" Thinking Maps were also created so that these graphic organizers would \"become a familiar part of students' education that it would remain an effective learning tool throughout their academic careers – and beyond\" (Thinking Maps Inc., Pamphlet).\n\nIn 1970, Innovative Sciences, Inc. (ISI) was founded by Charles Adams in order to \"improve the thinking and problem-solving abilities of the work force\" (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). Over the next eighteen years, ISI created a variety of developmentally appropriate materials, or \"content-based thinking skills,\" for schools based on research from student reading performance and different educational teaching models (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). In 1988, David Hyerle wrote Expand Your Thinking, which was the first resource where his Thinking Maps were published, and at that point, he began training educators to use his Thinking Maps (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). In 1994, test results indicated that \"Thinking Maps significantly affect[ed] standardized and qualitative measures of student performance\" (Thinking Maps Inc., 2011). After more success and schools nationwide piloting Thinking Maps, ISI changed its name to Thinking Maps, Inc. in 2004 to \"better promote its mission\" (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). Today, thousands of teachers across America have been trained in using and implementing Thinking Maps in their classrooms. Thinking Maps are also being promoted in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011).\n\nIn his text \"Curriculum as Conversation\", Applebee (1996) states that a \"curriculum provides domains for conversation, and the conversations that take place within those domains are the primary means for teaching and learning. Through such conversations, students will be helped to enter into culturally significant traditions of knowledge-in-action\" (p. 37). When looking at Applebee's (1996) ideas of \"knowledge-in-action\" and social learning, a connection with Hyerle's Thinking Maps is apparent. When students produce Thinking Maps, conversations among the students and their Maps occur, which is where the real learning takes place. Students are able to \"illustrate\" and explain their thought processes through Maps, while other students listen, ask questions, agree and/or disagree. Social learning starts when the teacher realizes that his or her classroom needs to be based on a learning community of able and willing learners, where each student has a vital role in the everyday learning by participating and adding to the conversation, which is where Thinking Maps can aid, scaffold, and support.\n\nMoffitt's theory of integrated language arts is widely seen through the use of Thinking Maps. Thinking Maps are products of reading, writing, listening, and speaking, and the aspects of listening and speaking are parts of the thinking processes that students use to explain themselves. Although the same eight Thinking Maps are used across grade levels, the Maps are developmentally appropriate for each age and coincide with Moffitt's developmental principle. In second grade, a teacher may use the Flow Map to sequence the stages and life cycle of a butterfly, while a high school chemistry teacher may use the same map to sequence the changing of an element from the periodic table. One teacher uses the map to illustrate a concrete idea, while another teacher uses the map to illustrate an abstract idea.\n\nWhen looking at the overarching theories of education, Thinking Maps fall into the Postmodern Constructivism theory. In the Postmodern Constructivism theory of education, learners often use their prior experiences, and when using one of the eight fundamental thought processes and Thinking Maps, learners often do use their background knowledge to continue constructing new meaning and knowledge (Sherman, 2000). Students are also encouraged to create and form their own opinions after self-reflection and creating Thinking Maps, as well as to engage and discuss their individual maps with their peers, even if their ideas differ. Another aspect of the Postmodern Constructivism theory of education that is seen by the use of Thinking Maps is that they promote critical thinking and problem solving (Sherman, 2011).\n\nIn his book \"Student Successes With Thinking Maps\", Dr. David Hyerle (2011) provides a plethora of reasons and research as to why Thinking Maps are beneficial tools for the classroom. Hyerle states that using the eight Thinking Maps promote metacognition and continuous cognitive development for students across their academic careers, as well as adds an artistic and kinesthetic component for students who learn effectively with that specific multiple intelligence (Hyerle, 2011). Lesson objectives can be covered in less time and with greater retention when using Thinking Maps, teachers can determine their students' background knowledge before teaching a unit or area of study, and student performance can be tracked over time in an accurate manner, too (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). Through his research, Dr. Hyerle (2011) also found that Thinking Maps help close the achievement gap, as they \"can help students [below grade level] self-regulate their own learning and be more successful in the game of school because Thinking Maps serve as a device for mediating thinking, listening, speaking, reading, writing, problem solving, and acquiring new knowledge.\" The thought processes that educators hope to instill in students are represented similarly throughout the curricula, and integrated thinking and learning across disciplines is promoted (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). As fidelity and accountability are also huge aspects in the education field, the idea that Thinking Maps as a school-wide initiative for use of a common instructional and learning tool and as a shared language among teachers and students is one of Hyerle's (2011) main ideas for the use of this support curriculum.\n\nIn Villalon and Calvo's (2011) \"Concept Maps as Cognitive Visualizations of Writing Assignments\", concept maps are discussed as a means of scaffolding university-aged students' ideas in writing, as well as their metacognitive skills. In their study, Villalon and Calvo evaluated a new Concept Map Mining tool, which was used in an \"e-learning environment\" that automatically generated maps using students' written work (p. 16). The Concept Map Mining tool was used to look at a collection of annotated essays written by undergraduate college students (p. 16). Villalon and Calvo (2011) found that \"Cognitive Visualizations [such as Concept Map Mining] provide quality feedback because they make the author's thinking visible, making explicit the mental model learners are using…Within the writing process, providing automatic feedback in the form of [Cognitive Visualizations] allows learners to reflect on their own work and their own mental models that guided its construction, facilitating the development of metacognitive skills\" (p. 23). Villalon and Calvo's (2011) study illustrates that the use of concept maps are beneficial to even the oldest of learners in a college setting, and although precise Thinking Maps were not used in this study, the idea of a graphic organizer to \"map out\" thought processes is universal.\n\nIn \"Thinking with Maps\", Elisabeth Camp (2007) investigates how individuals think and how thinking is related to language. Camp (2007) states that \"…thinking in maps is substantively different from thinking in sentences\" (p. 155). This concept supports Hyerle's (2011) idea that Thinking Maps possess an artistic and kinesthetic component, where students can feel free to express their ideas in a \"drawing,\" or map, instead of using complete written sentences. Thinking Maps support learners who thrive with the artistic and kinesthetic multiple intelligences of learning.\n\nDavid Hyerle (1996) reports numerous success stories with the use of Thinking Maps in his article \"Thinking Maps: Seeing is Understanding\". After teachers participated in a year-long professional development in the use and purpose of Thinking Maps, as well as integrated the maps into their curriculum during this training year, the \"teachers agreed that the maps had successfully helped students develop their thinking processes and their ability to organize ideas, improved the quality and quantity of their writing, and also motivated them to learn. Further, the maps benefited the teachers by helping them organize content and assess student learning\" (p. 88). Hyerle (1996) also reported that the educators who gave Thinking Maps the highest ratings at the end of the year were those who taught English Learners (Spanish-speaking students), as Thinking Maps \"enabled their students to transfer patterns of thinking from Spanish into English, to focus on learning, and to build vocabulary\" (p. 88).\n\nIn \"Designs of Concept Maps and Their Impacts on Readers' Performance in Memory and Reasoning While Reading\", Jeng-Yi Tzeng (2010) investigates the effect of Thinking Maps on students' performance of \"cognitive operations.\" In the study, Tzeng had students read two opposing history articles that \"argued from different perspectives about a historical incident\" that occurred in Taiwan (p. 133). The results of the study indicated that the focus and design of the concept maps may \"influence the formation of mental representations, and that this may be facilitative or constraining in regard to the readers' memory formation and reasoning about the reading materials.\" With regards to the maps' designs, Tzeng uncovered that this can impact a student's memory and/or understanding of a text, which poses as a negative aspect of the maps themselves.\n\nIn conclusion, by linking each thinking skill to a unique and dynamic visual representation, the language of Thinking Maps becomes a tool set for supporting effective instructional practice and improving student performance. Teachers and students, therefore, independently apply thinking skills for their own learning while also having a common visual language for cooperative learning. By having a rich language of visual maps based on thinking processes, learners are no longer confused by poorly organized brainstorming webs or an endless array of static graphic organizers. They are enabled to move from concrete to abstract concepts, think with depth, and directly apply their thinking to complex tasks.\n\n"}
{"id": "15935893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15935893", "title": "Turing Lecture", "text": "Turing Lecture\n\nThe BCS / IET Turing Lecture is an annual lecture given by a noted speaker on the subject of Computer Science. The lecture is delivered in several different locations annually including: The Royal Institution in London, Cardiff University, The University of Manchester, Belfast City Hall and the University of Glasgow.\n\nThe lecture is named in honour of Alan Turing, and is co-hosted by the British Computer Society (BCS) and the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET). The event should not be confused with the Turing Award lecture organised by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). Recent Turing lectures are available as a live webcast and archived online.\n\nTuring lecturers have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "3304046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3304046", "title": "USC Center on Public Diplomacy", "text": "USC Center on Public Diplomacy\n\nThe USC Center on Public Diplomacy (CPD) was established in 2003 as a partnership between the USC Annenberg School for Communication and the USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences' School of International Relations at the University of Southern California. It is a research, analysis and professional education organization dedicated to furthering the study and practice of global public engagement and cultural relations.\n\nIn 2008, USC received the from the U.S. State Department in recognition of the university's teaching, training and research in public diplomacy.\n\nCenter leadership is provided by Jay Wang, Director of the USC Center on Public Diplomacy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32843712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32843712", "title": "Udemy", "text": "Udemy\n\nUdemy.com is an online learning platform. It is aimed at professional adults. Unlike academic massive open online course (MOOC) programs which are driven by traditional collegiate coursework, Udemy uses content from online content creators to sell for profit. Udemy provides tools which enable users to create a course, promote it and earn money from student tuition charges.\n\nNo Udemy courses are currently credentialed for college credit; students take courses largely as a means of improving job-related skills. Some courses generate credit toward technical certification. Udemy has made a special effort to attract corporate trainers seeking to create coursework for employees of their company.\n\nAs of 2018, there are more than 80,000 courses on the website.\n\nIn 2007, Udemy (you-duh-mee) founder Eren Bali built software for a live virtual classroom while living in Turkey. He saw potential in making the product free for everyone, and moved to Silicon Valley to found a company two years later. The site was launched by Bali, Oktay Caglar and Gagan Biyani in early 2010.\n\nIn February 2010, the founders tried to raise venture capital funding, but the idea failed to impress investors and they were rejected 30 times, according to Gagan Biyani. In response to this, they bootstrapped the development of the product and launched Udemy—\"The Academy of You\"—in May 2010.\n\nWithin a few months, 1,000 instructors had created about 2,000 courses, and Udemy had nearly 10,000 registered users. Based on this favorable market reaction, they decided to attempt another round of financing, and raised $1 million in venture funding by August.\n\nIn October 2011, the company raised an additional $3 million in Series A funding led by Groupon investors Eric Lefkofsky and Brad Keywell, as well as 500 Startups and MHS Capital.\n\nIn December 2012, the company raised $12 million in Series B funding led by Insight Venture Partners, as well as Lightbank Capital, MHS Capital and Learn Capital, bringing Udemy's total funding to $16 million.\n\nOn April 22, 2014, the Wall Street Journal's Digital edition reported that Dennis Yang, Chief Operating Officer of Udemy was named CEO, replacing Eren Bali.\n\nIn May 2014, Udemy raised another $32 million in a Series C funding, led by Norwest Venture Partners, as well as Insight Venture Partners and MHS Capital.\n\nIn June 2015, Udemy raised a $65 million Series D financing round, led by Stripes Group. Now Udemy joined another online learning house Skillsdox Inc of Canada to open up School of Skills in India.\n\nIn June 2016, Udemy raised $60 million from Naspers Ventures as a follow-up to the $65 million Series D round of financing from June 2015.\n\nOn June 1, 2017, Udemy announced that the board of the company has appointed Kevin H. Johnson as its new chief executive officer effective immediately.\n\nUdemy serves as a platform that allows instructors to build online courses on topics of their choosing. Using Udemy's course development tools they can upload video, PowerPoint presentations, PDFs, audio, zip files and live classes to create courses. Instructors can also engage and interact with users via online discussion boards.\n\nCourses are offered across a breadth of categories, including business and entrepreneurship, academics, the arts, health and fitness, language, music, and technology. Most classes are in practical subjects such as Excel software or using an iPhone camera. Udemy also offers Udemy for Business, enabling businesses access to a targeted suite of over 2,000 training courses on topics from digital marketing tactics to office productivity, design, management, programming, and more. With Udemy for Business, organizations can also create custom learning portals for corporate training.\n\nUdemy offers paid and free courses, depending on the instructor.\n\nInstructor compensation from tuition varies based on who invests in marketing to attract students to Udemy. Instructors earn 97% of all tuition revenues if the instructor's own reputation or marketing attracts the student. Udemy retains 50% of the earnings if the student is attracted by the site's own marketing or other coursework, and the instructor earns just 25% of the tuition if a Udemy promotional affiliate attracts the student to the site and course. In the latter case, the affiliate earns 50% of the tuition, and the remaining 50% is split between Udemy and the instructor. In 2015, the top 10 instructors made more than $17 million in total revenue.\n\nIn April 2013, Udemy offered an app for Apple iOS, allowing students to take classes directly from iPhones; The Android version was launched in January 2014. As of January 2014, the iOS app had been downloaded over 1 million times, and 20 percent of Udemy users access their courses via mobile. In July 2016, Udemy expanded their iOS platform to include Apple TV.\n\nUdemy is part of the growing MOOC movement available outside the traditional university system, and has been noted for the variety of courses offered.\n\nUdemy has been discussed in \"The New York Times\", \"The China Post\", \"Fast Company\", the \"BBC\" \"YPN\" and \"TechCrunch\", with \"Mashable\" noting \"Udemy offers an experience that rivals the real classroom, and should prove to be a useful utility for teachers and students of all subject matters.\"\n\nIn 2014, \"Forbes\" named Udemy cofounder Eren Bali as part of their \"30 Under 30\" of \"the brightest stars in 15 different fields under the age of 30.\"\n\nNoted businessman Jack Welch has developed an online MBA program, offered through the Jack Welch Management Institute (JWMI) at Strayer University, which acquired JWMI assets in November 2011. Udemy became the MOOC platform for the institute's Welch Way courseware in November 2012, and promoted this Jack Welch connection.\n\nIn November 2015, Udemy was accused of publishing and profiting from pirated courses. The CEO, Dennis Yang, answered the accusations in a blog post, looking specifically at one accusation and stating that Udemy did not profit from that instance of piracy.\n"}
{"id": "2412776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2412776", "title": "Walden Bello", "text": "Walden Bello\n\nWalden Flores Bello (born November 11, 1945) is a Filipino academic, environmentalist, and social worker who served as a member of the House of Representatives of the Philippines. He is a professor of sociology and public administration at the University of the Philippines Diliman, as well as executive director of Focus on the Global South. \n\nBello was born in Manila, Philippines. His family paid for his Jesuit schooling at Ateneo de Manila University and he attended grad school at Princeton University. While attending Princeton in the United States, he was introduced to the anti-war movement and led an occupation of the Woodrow Wilson Center. The confrontation with police during these protests radicalized Bello and inspired him to pursue a life of activism. For his graduate studies, he traveled to Chile and stayed in shanty towns following Salvador Allende's socialist rise to the presidency.\n\nWhen he returned to the United States to defend his dissertation, he lost his ability to return to the Philippines after his passport had been revoked when the declaration of Martial Law by then-President Ferdinand Marcos on September 21, 1972. \n\nAfter earning his PhD in sociology in 1975 from Princeton, he then became part of the anti-Marcos movement, began teaching at the University of California, Berkeley and became a member of the Communist Party of the Philippines. In 1978 after being arrested multiple times during protests, he was arrested after leading the takeover of the Philippine consulate in San Francisco. Bello was later released following a hunger strike to bring attention to the situation the Philippines was facing. In the early-1980s, Bello also broke into the World Bank headquarters and stole 3,000 pages of confidential documents that he said would show the connection of the IMF and World Bank to Marcos. He later wrote \"Development Debacle: the World Bank in the Philippines\" in 1982 surrounding the documents stating that this publication contributed toward the 1986 People Power Revolution in the Philippines, with Bello returning to his native state two years later.\n\nIn 1995, Bello co-founded Focus on the Global South, a policy research institute based in Bangkok, Thailand. Bello had also led teach-ins during the 1999 Seattle WTO protests and protested internationally against globalization at the 2001 G8 summit, the WTO Ministerial Conference of 2003, the WTO Ministerial Conference of 2005 and was banned from the 2006 World Bank-IMF Conference in Singapore.\n\nPolitically, Bello began to turn away from the Communist Party of the Philippines after he heard that they allegedly killed individuals in the 1980s and 1990s that were accused of being double agents. Bello later joined the Akbayan Citizens' Action Party and became a member of congress in 2010. In March 2015, Bello resigned his position in congress due to conflicts with President Benigno Aquino III that surrounded the Disbursement Acceleration Program and the Mamasapano incident. He ran for senator in 2016 but lost.\n\nHe currently sits on the board of directors of the International Forum on Globalization and on the board of directors of the leftist think-tank Center for Economic and Policy Research. He is also a member of the regional Greenpeace.\n\n\"Socialist Worker\" described Bello as \"one of the most articulate and prolific voices on the international left\" and that \"he has devoted most of his life to fighting imperialism and corporate globalization\". Bello was also a supporter of Hugo Chávez and was impressed by his opposition to the United States, stating after Chávez's death that he was \"a class act, one impossible to follow. Wherever you are right now, give ’em hell\".\n\nBello has authored and edited a number of non-fiction books. Among them are the following:\n\n\nIn 2003, Bello was awarded the Right Livelihood Award, whose website describes him as \"one of the leading critics of the current model of economic globalization, combining the roles of intellectual and activist.\" Bello is also a fellow of the Transnational Institute (based in Amsterdam), and is a columnist for \"Foreign Policy in Focus\". In March 2008 he was named Outstanding Public Scholar for 2008 by the International Studies Association.\n\n"}
