{"id": "9661962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9661962", "title": "Accreditation Committee of Cambodia", "text": "Accreditation Committee of Cambodia\n\nThe Accreditation Committee of Cambodia (, ACC) is a national higher education quality and assessment body of Cambodia. The ACC was established in Phnom Penh on March 2003 under the supervision of the Council of Ministers chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister Sok An to develop the standard of education in Cambodia.\n\nPartial list of higher education institutions in Cambodia supervised by the ACC:\n\n"}
{"id": "628450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628450", "title": "Activity theory", "text": "Activity theory\n\nActivity theory (AT; ) is an umbrella term for a line of eclectic social sciences theories and research with its roots in the Soviet psychological activity theory pioneered by Lev Vygotsky , Alexei Leont'ev and Sergei Rubinstein. These scholars sought to understand human activities as systemic and socially situated phenomena and to go beyond paradigms of reflexology (the teaching of Vladimir Bekhterev and his followers) and classical conditioning (the teaching of Ivan Pavlov and his school), psychoanalysis and behaviorism. It became one of the major psychological approaches in the former USSR, being widely used in both theoretical and applied psychology, and in education, professional training, ergonomics, social psychology and work psychology.\n\nActivity theory is more of a descriptive meta-theory or framework than a predictive theory. It considers an entire work/activity system (including teams, organizations, etc.) beyond just one actor or user. It accounts for environment, history of the person, culture, role of the artifact, motivations, and complexity of real-life activity. One of the strengths of AT is that it bridges the gap between the individual subject and the social reality—it studies both through the mediating activity. The unit of analysis in AT is the concept of object-oriented, collective and culturally mediated human activity, or \"activity system\". This system includes the object (or objective), subject, mediating artifacts (signs and tools), rules, community and division of labor. The motive for the activity in AT is created through the tensions and contradictions within the elements of the system. According to ethnographer Bonnie Nardi, a leading theorist in AT, activity theory \"focuses on practice, which obviates the need to distinguish 'applied' from 'pure' science—understanding everyday practice in the real world is the very objective of scientific practice. ... The object of activity theory is to understand the unity of consciousness and activity.\" Sometimes called \"Cultural-Historical Activity Theory\", this approach is particularly useful for studying a group that exists \"largely in virtual form, its communications mediated largely through electronic and printed texts.\"\n\nAT is particularly useful as a lens in qualitative research methodologies (e.g., ethnography, case study). AT provides a method of understanding and analyzing a phenomenon, finding patterns and making inferences across interactions, describing phenomena and presenting phenomena through a built-in language and rhetoric. A particular activity is a goal-directed or purposeful interaction of a subject with an object through the use of tools. These tools are exteriorized forms of mental processes manifested in constructs, whether physical or psychological. AT recognizes the internalization and externalization of cognitive processes involved in the use of tools, as well as the transformation or development that results from the interaction.\n\nThe origins of activity theory can be traced to several sources, which have subsequently given rise to various complementary and intertwined strands of development. This account will focus on three of the most important of these strands. The first is associated with the Moscow Institute of Psychology and in particular the \"troika\" of young Russian researchers, Vygotsky, Leont'ev and Luria. Vygotsky founded cultural-historical psychology, a field that became the basis for modern AT; Leont'ev, one of the principal founders of activity theory, both developed and reacted against Vygotsky's work. Leont'ev's formulation of general activity theory is currently the most influential in post-Soviet developments in AT, which have largely been in social-scientific, organizational, and writing-studies rather than psychological research.\n\nThe second major line of development within activity theory involves Russian scientists, such as P. K. Anokhin and Nikolai Bernstein, more directly concerned with the neurophysiological basis of activity; its foundation is associated with the Soviet philosopher of psychology Sergei Rubinstein. This work was subsequently developed by researchers such as Pushkin, Zinchenko & Gordeeva, Ponomarenko, Zarakovsky and others, and is currently most well-known through the work on systemic-structural activity theory being carried out by G. Z. Bedny and his associates.\n\nFinally, in the Western world, discussions and use of AT are primarily framed within the Scandinavian activity theory strand, developed by Yrjö Engeström.\n\nAfter Vygotsky's early death, Leont'ev became the leader of the research group nowadays known as the Kharkov School of Psychology and extended Vygotsky's research framework in significantly new ways. Leont'ev first examined the psychology of animals, looking at the different degrees to which animals can be said to have mental processes. He concluded that Pavlov's reflexionism was not a sufficient explanation of animal behaviour and that animals have an active relation to reality, which he called \"activity\". In particular, the behaviour of higher primates such as chimpanzees could only be explained by the ape's formation of multi-phase plans using tools.\n\nLeont'ev then progressed to humans and pointed out that people engage in \"actions\" that do not in themselves satisfy a need, but contribute towards the eventual satisfaction of a need. Often, these actions only make sense in a social context of a shared work activity. This led him to a distinction between \"activities\", which satisfy a need, and the \"actions\" that constitute the activities. Leont'ev also argued that the activity in which a person is involved is reflected in their mental activity, that is (as he puts it) material reality is \"presented\" to consciousness, but only in its vital meaning or significance.\n\nActivity theory also influenced the development of organizational-activity game as developed by Georgy Shchedrovitsky.\n\nAT remained virtually unknown outside the Soviet Union until the mid-1980s, when it was picked up by Scandinavian researchers. The first international conference on activity theory was not held until 1986. The earliest non-Soviet paper cited by Nardi is a 1987 paper by Yrjö Engeström: \"Learning by expanding\". This resulted in a reformulation of AT. Kuutti notes that the term \"activity theory\" \"can be used in two senses: referring to the original Soviet tradition or referring to the international, multi-voiced community applying the original ideas and developing them further.\"\n\nThe Scandinavian AT school of thought seeks to integrate and develop concepts from Vygotsky's Cultural-historical psychology and Leont'ev's activity theory with Western intellectual developments such as Cognitive Science, American Pragmatism, Constructivism, and Actor-Network Theory. It is known as Scandinavian activity theory. Work in the systems-structural theory of activity is also being carried on by researchers in the US and UK.\n\nSome of the changes are a systematisation of Leont'ev's work. Although Leont'ev's exposition is clear and well structured, it is not as well-structured as the formulation by Yrjö Engeström. Kaptelinin remarks that Engeström \"proposed a scheme of activity different from that by Leont'ev; it contains three interacting entities—the individual, the object and the community—instead of the two components—the individual and the object—in Leont'ev's original scheme.\"\n\nSome changes were introduced, apparently by importing notions from human–computer interaction theory. For instance, the notion of \"rules\", which is not found in Leont'ev, was introduced. Also, the notion of collective subject was introduced in the 1970s and 1980s (Leont'ev refers to \"joint labour activity\", but only has individuals, not groups, as activity subjects).\n\nThe goal of activity theory is understanding the mental capabilities of a single individual. However, it rejects the \"isolated\" individuals as insufficient unit of analysis, analyzing the cultural and technical aspects of human actions.\n\nActivity theory is most often used to describe actions in a socio-technical system through six related elements (Bryant et al. as defined by Leonti'ev 1981 and redefined in Engeström 1987) of a conceptual system expanded by more nuanced theories:\n\nActivity theory helps explain how social artifacts and social organization mediate social action (Bryant et al.).\n\nThe application of activity theory to information systems derives from the work of Bonnie Nardi and Kari Kuutti. Kuutti's work is addressed below. Nardi's approach is, briefly, as follows: Nardi (p. 6) described activity theory as \"...a powerful and clarifying descriptive tool rather than a strongly predictive theory. The object of activity theory is to understand the unity of consciousness and activity...Activity theorists argue that consciousness is not a set of discrete disembodied cognitive acts (decision making, classification, remembering), and certainly it is not the brain; rather, consciousness is located in everyday practice: you are what you do.\" Nardi (p. 5) also argued that \"activity theory proposes a strong notion of \"mediation\"—all human experience is shaped by the tools and sign systems we use.\" Nardi (p. 6) explained that \"a basic tenet of activity theory is that a notion of consciousness is central to a depiction of activity. Vygotsky described consciousness as a phenomenon that unifies attention, intention, memory, reasoning, and speech...\" and (p. 7) \"Activity theory, with its emphasis on the importance of motive and consciousness—which belongs only to humans—sees people and things as fundamentally different. People are not reduced to 'nodes' or 'agents' in a system; 'information processing' is not seen as something to be modelled in the same way for people and machines.\"\n\nIn a later work, Nardi et al. in comparing activity theory with cognitive science, argue that \"activity theory is above all a social theory of consciousness\" and therefore \"... activity theory wants to define consciousness, that is, all the mental functioning including\nremembering, deciding, classifying, generalising, abstracting and so forth, as a product of our social interactions with other people and of our use of tools.\" For Activity Theorists \"consciousness\" seems to refer to any mental functioning, whereas most other approaches to psychology distinguish conscious from unconscious functions.\n\nOver the last 15 years the use and exploration of activity theory in information systems has grown. One stream of research has focused on technology mediated change and the implementation of technologies and how they disrupt, change and improve organisational work activity. In these studies, activity systems are used to understand emergent contradictions in the work activity, which are temporarily resolved using information systems (tools) and/or arising from the introduction of information systems. Information science studies use a similar approach to activity theory in order to understand information behaviour \"in context\".\nIn the field of ICT and development (a field of study within information systems) the use of activity theory has also been used to inform development of IT systems and to frame the study of ICT in development settings.\n\nIn addition, Etengoff & Daiute have conducted recent work exploring how social media interfaces can be productively used to mediate conflicts. Their work has illustrated this perspective with analyses of online interactions between gay men and their religious family members and Sunni-Muslim emerging adults' efforts to maintain a positive ethnic identity via online religious forums in post 9/11 contexts.\n\nThe rise of the personal computer challenged the focus in traditional systems developments on mainframe systems for automation of existing work routines. It furthermore brought forth a need to focus on how to work on materials and objects through the computer. In the search of theoretical and methodical perspectives suited to deal with issues of flexibility and more advanced mediation between the human being, material and outcomes through the interface, it seemed promising to turn to the still rather young HCI research tradition that had emerged primarily in the US (for further discussion see Bannon & Bødker, 1991).\n\nSpecifically the cognitive science-based theories lacked means of addressing a number of issues that came out of the empirical projects (see Bannon & Bødker, 1991): 1. Many of the early advanced user interfaces assumed that the users were the designers themselves, and accordingly built on an assumption of a generic user, without concern for qualifications, work environment, division of work, etc. 2.In particular the role of the artifact as it stands between the user and her materials, objects and outcomes was ill understood. 3. In validating findings and designs there was a heavy focus on novice users whereas everyday use by experienced users and concerns for the development of expertise were hardly addressed. 4.Detailed task analysis and the idealized models created through task analysis failed to capture the complexity and contingency of real-life action. 5.From the point of view of complex work settings, it was striking how most HCI focused on one user – one computer in contrast to the ever-ongoing cooperation and coordination of real work situations (this problem later lead to the development of CSCW). 6.Users were mainly seen as objects of study.\n\nBecause of these shortcomings, it was necessary to move outside cognitive science-based HCI to find or develop the necessary theoretical platform. European psychology had taken different paths than had American with much inspiration from dialectical materialism (Hydén 1981, Engeström, 1987). Philosophers such as Heidegger and Wittgenstein came to play an important role, primarily through discussions of the limitations of AI (Winograd & Flores 1986, Dreyfus & Dreyfus 1986). Suchman (1987) with a similar focus introduced ethnomethodology into the discussions, and Ehn (1988) based his treatise of design of computer artifacts on Marx, Heidegger and Wittgenstein.\nThe development of the activity theoretical angle was primarily carried out by Bødker (1991, 1996) and by Kuutti (Bannon & Kuutti, 1993, Kuutti, 1991, 1996), both with strong inspiration from Scandinavian activity theory groups in psychology. Bannon (1990, 1991) and Grudin (1990a and b) made significant contributions to the furthering of the approach by making it available to the HCI audience. The work of Kaptelinin (1996) has been important to connect to the earlier development of activity theory in Russia. Nardi produced the, hitherto, most applicable collection of activity theoretical HCI literature (Nardi, 1996).\n\nAt the end of the 1990s, a group of Russian and American activity theorists working in the systems-cybernetic tradition of Bernshtein and Anokhin began to publish English-language articles and books dealing with topics in human factors and ergonomics and, latterly, human–computer interaction. Under the rubric of systemic-structural activity theory (SSAT), this work represents a modern synthesis within activity theory which brings together the cultural-historical and systems-structural strands of the tradition (as well as other work within Soviet psychology such as the Psychology of Set) with findings and methods from Western human factors/ergonomics and cognitive psychology.\n\nThe development of SSAT has been specifically oriented toward the analysis and design of the basic elements of human work activity: tasks, tools, methods, objects and results, and the skills, experience and abilities of involved subjects. SSAT has developed techniques for both the qualitative and quantitative description of work activity. Its design-oriented analyses specifically focus on the interrelationship between the structure and self-regulation of work activity and the configuration of its material components.\n\nThis section presents a short introduction to activity theory, and some brief comments on human creativity in activity theory and the implications of activity theory for tacit knowledge and learning.\n\nActivity theory begins with the notion of activity. An activity is seen as a system of human \"doing\" whereby a subject works on an object in order to obtain a desired outcome. In order to do this, the subject employs tools, which may be external (e.g. an axe, a computer) or internal (e.g. a plan). As an illustration, an activity might be the operation of an automated call centre. As we shall see later, many subjects may be involved in the activity and each subject may have one or more motives (e.g. improved supply management, career advancement or gaining control over a vital organisational power source). A simple example of an activity within a call centre might be a telephone operator (subject) who is modifying a customer's billing record (object) so that the billing data is correct (outcome) using a graphical front end to a database (tool).\n\nKuutti formulates activity theory in terms of the structure of an activity. \"An activity is a form of doing directed to an object, and activities are distinguished from each other according\nto their objects. Transforming the object into an outcome motivates the existence of an activity. An object can be a material thing, but it can also be less tangible.\"\n\nKuutti then adds a third term, the tool, which 'mediates' between the activity and the object. \"The tool is at the same time both enabling and limiting: it empowers the subject in the transformation process with the historically collected experience and skill 'crystallised' to it, but it also restricts the interaction to be from the perspective of that particular tool or instrument; other potential features of an object remain invisible to the subject...\".\n\nAs Verenikina remarks, tools are \"social objects with certain modes of operation developed socially in the course of labour and are only possible because they correspond to the objectives of a practical action.\"\n\nAn activity is modelled as a three-level hierarchy. Kuutti schematises processes in activity theory as a three-level system.\n\nVerenikina paraphrases Leont'ev as explaining that \"the non-coincidence of action and operations... appears in actions with tools, that is, material objects which are crystallised operations, not actions nor goals. If a person is confronted with a specific goal of, say, dismantling a machine, then they must make use of a variety of operations; it makes no difference how the individual operations were learned because the formulation of the operation proceeds differently to the formulation of the goal that initiated the action.\"\n\nThe levels of activity are also characterised by their purposes: \"Activities are oriented to motives, that is, the objects that are impelling by themselves. Each motive is an object, material or ideal, that satisfies a need. Actions are the processes functionally subordinated to activities; they are directed at specific conscious goals... Actions are realised through operations that are determined by the actual conditions of activity.\"\n\nEngeström developed an extended model of an activity, which adds another component, community (\"those who share the same object\"), and then adds rules to mediate between subject and community, and the division of labour to mediate between object and community.\n\nKuutti asserts that \"These three classes should be understood broadly. A tool can be anything used in the transformation process, including both material tools and tools for thinking. Rules cover both explicit and implicit norms, conventions, and social relations within a community. Division of labour refers to the explicit and implicit organisation of the community as related to the transformation process of the object into the outcome.\"\n\nActivity theory therefore includes the notion that an activity is carried out within a social context, or specifically in a community. The way in which the activity fits into the context is thus established by two resulting concepts:\n\nActivity theory provides a number of useful concepts that can be used to address the lack of expression for 'soft' factors which are inadequately represented by most process modelling frameworks. One such concept is the internal plane of action. Activity theory recognises that each activity takes place in two planes: the external plane and the internal plane. The external plane represents the objective components of the action while the internal plane represents the subjective components of the action. Kaptelinin defines the \"internal plane of actions\" as \"[...] a concept developed in activity theory that refers to the human ability to perform manipulations with an internal representation of external objects before starting actions with these objects in reality.\"\n\nThe concepts of motives, goals and conditions discussed above also contribute to the modelling of soft factors. One principle of activity theory is that many activities have multiple motivation ('polymotivation'). For instance, a programmer in writing a program may address goals aligned towards multiple motives such as increasing his or her annual bonus, obtaining relevant career experience and contributing to organisational objectives.\n\nActivity theory further argues that subjects are grouped into communities, with rules mediating between subject and community and a division of labour mediating between object and community. A subject may be part of several communities and a community, itself, may be part of other communities.\n\nHuman creativity plays an important role in activity theory, that \"human beings... are essentially creative beings\" in \"the creative, non-predictable character\". Tikhomirov also analyses the importance of \"creative activity\", contrasting it to \"routine\" activity, and notes the important shift brought about by computerisation in the balance towards creative activity.\n\nKarl Marx, a sociological theorist, argued that humans are unique compared to other species in that humans create everything they need to survive. According to Marx, this is described as species-being. Marx believed we find our true identity in what we produce in our personal labor.\n\nActivity theory has an interesting approach to the difficult problems of \"learning\" and, in particular, \"tacit knowledge\". Learning has been a favourite subject of management theorists, but it has often been presented in an abstract way separated from the work processes to which the learning should apply. Activity theory provides a potential corrective to this tendency. For instance, Engeström's review of Nonaka's work on \"knowledge creation\" suggests enhancements based on activity theory, in particular suggesting that the organisational learning process includes preliminary stages of goal and problem formation not found in Nonaka. Lompscher, rather than seeing learning as \"transmission\", sees the formation of learning goals and the\nstudent's understanding of which things they need to acquire as the key to the formation of the learning activity.\n\nOf particular importance to the study of learning in organisations is the problem of \"tacit knowledge\", which according to Nonaka, \"is highly personal and hard to formalise, making it difficult to communicate to others or to share with others.\" Leont'ev's concept of operation provides an important insight into this problem. In addition, the key idea of \"internalisation\" was originally introduced by Vygotsky as \"the internal reconstruction of an external operation.\" Internalisation has subsequently become a key term of the theory of tacit knowledge and has been defined as \"a process of embodying explicit knowledge into tacit knowledge.\" Internalisation has been described by Engeström as the \"key psychological mechanism\" discovered by Vygotsky and is further discussed by Verenikina.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4541702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4541702", "title": "California State Summer School for Mathematics and Science", "text": "California State Summer School for Mathematics and Science\n\nThe California State Summer School for Mathematics and Science (COSMOS) is a summer program for high school students in California for the purpose of preparing them for careers in mathematics and sciences. It is often abbreviated COSMOS, although COSMOS does not contain the correct letters to create an accurate abbreviation. The program is hosted on four different campuses of the University of California, at Davis, Irvine, San Diego, and Santa Cruz.\n\nCOSMOS was established by the California State Legislature in the summer of 2000 to stimulate the interests of and provide opportunities for talented California high school students. The California State Summer School for Mathematics & Science is modeled after the California State Summer School for the Arts. In the first summer, 292 students enrolled in the program. Each COSMOS campus only holds 150 students, so selection is competitive. It is a great experience in exploring the sciences and a good activity for college applications, especially the University of California application. This program is designed for extremely gifted students who make amazing discoveries in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5412557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5412557", "title": "Charles III University of Madrid", "text": "Charles III University of Madrid\n\nCharles III University of Madrid () (UC3M) is a public university in the Community of Madrid, Spain. UC3M is an institution with a distinctly international profile. It offers a broad range of master’s and bachelor's degree programs in English and nearly 20% of the student body is made up of international students. It is the first university in Spain and the third in Europe in the number of its students participating in the Erasmus student exchange programs.\n\nThe university has a strong reputation in business subjects, in particular economics, which is regularly ranked amongst the top 50 institutions worldwide. It is known for its high academic demand to degree students. It also holds the highest admission grade requirement in Madrid for several degree programs such as Business, Law, Political Science, Economics, International Studies, Accounting, Journalism or Biomedical Engineering. It also ranks among the world’s top 150 universities in employability according to the 2016 \"QS World University Rankings\".\n\nThe university’s motto is “\"Homo homini sacra res”\" (\"Man is a sacred thing to man\"), a quote adapted from Seneca (\"Ad Lucilium\" : \"Homo, sacra res homini\").\n\nUC3M has four Campuses divided into the following Schools and Centers:\n\n- Located within the greater Madrid metropolitan area in the town of Getafe, the campus is 13 kilometers south of the Spanish capital.\n\n- Facilities: libraries, computer rooms, multimedia rooms, television and recording studios, court rooms, language resource and activity rooms, sport centers equipped with indoor pool and spas, and student residence halls.\n\n- Located within the greater Madrid metropolitan area in the town of Leganes, the campus is 11 kilometers southeast of the Spanish capital.\n\n- Facilities: experimental laboratories for courses in bioengineering, computer science, aerospace engineering, mechanical engineering, and robotics, etc., library, computer rooms, multimedia rooms, a language resource and activity room, a sports center equipped with indoor pool, student residence hall, and an auditorium with a seating capacity of 1,000.\n\n- Located within the province of Madrid in the town of Colmenarejo, the campus is 36 kilometers northeast of the Spanish capital.\n\n- Facilities: library, computer rooms, a language resource and activity room, and a multimedia room.\n\n- Located in the historic and cultural heart of Madrid, this campus is home to the University’s official master’s programs and its own UC3M-accredited master’s programs. Many of the institution’s cultural and artistic events and activities are held on this campus.\n\n- Facilities: library, computer rooms, multimedia rooms and a multi-purpose room.\n\nThe undergraduate degrees in Business Administration, Economics and Law are ranked first, first and second respectively among those offered by public and private universities in Spain, and its Master and Ph.D. programs also rank top in the country. The Department of Economics is among the 50 best worldwide, and in the top 10 worldwide best in Econometrics.\n\nThe university offers curricula fully adapted to the EU Bologna Process. It is well known for the quality of academic research, its international orientation and its higher than average study workload. It offers bilingual degrees, taught both in English and Spanish, in Economics, Business, Actuaries and Finance, and Computer, Industrial, biomedical engineering and Telecommunications engineering. It also offers joint degrees in Economics and Law and in Business and Law. All students, regardless of their concentration, must fulfill a Humanities requirement, and elementary fluency in a foreign language, generally English but also German, French or Italian, is also required.\n\nIn addition to their regular classes, the university offers MOOCs on both the edX and Miríada X platform. Currently, they provide 13 MOOCs on subjects ranging from structural mechanics to public procurement and European paintings. The courses are taught in both English and Spanish and take, on average, two months to complete. A digital statement of accomplishment is then issued if the student has received the passing grade or more.\n\n\nPublic universities in Spain occupy a large share of the national budget. Almost 80% of the funding for public universities is borne by the taxpayers, with student fees accounting for most of the remainder of this funding. Universities in Spain do not have final oversight over their funding; this is done by the government which receives, administrates, and distributes all sources of revenue.\n\nThe UC3M uses the crowdfunding system to finance its projects. The process usually involves four main steps: Firstly a scientist, student or an alumnus will develop an idea about research, innovation, and/or the diffusion of knowledge. Secondly they spread this idea via Gotero.org, which is a website where donors can search for and endorse projects listed on the webpage. Thirdly, an interested donor will begin financing a project. Finally, the project reaches sufficient levels of funding, publicity, and related improvements to become reality.\n\nThere are several different types of crowdfunding. Rewards-based crowdfunding is when a sponsor funds a project for an incentive or reward in return, generally products or services that result from the project. Equity crowdfunding results in a sponsor receiving some form of equity in return for their investment. Debt-based funding involves a sponsor lending money to the project, with the promise of their investment being returned plus interest. Donation-based crowdfunding involves a donor investing out of altruistic interest, without any interest in financial or material rewards in return.\n\nCrowdfunding has provided opportunities to many people for developing campus projects. At UC3M, Isabel García Gutiérrez, who is the vice rector of the entrepreneurship and science park, said that the university turned to this system because of its innovative potential. The prior experience of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia's use of the crowdfunding system was also a helpful example to model from.\n\nThe UC3M as with all other public universities received government funding, so students' tuition fees are a small percentage of the actual education costs. However, extra-curricular activities such as cultural, sports and volunteerism activities aren’t included in the enrollment fees, and require additional fees for participation.\n\nThe UC3M Foundation is a private nonprofit organization. Created in 1990, its objectives are the promotion and financing of social, cultural, and scientific activities.\n\nObjectives of the UC3M Foundation:\n\nCollege extension: This includes courses for seniors (cultural programs and classroom continuing education), and seminars on exchanges and financial markets for academic credit. The You click course is directed towards young people who want to enter the labor market as professionals with improved knowledge about social media, networking, communication and digital characters.\n\nLanguage Center: Focus on development in different languages like English, French, German, Chinese, Italian and others; presenting opportunities for students to be more motivated in learning languages; using new technologies and assistance with preparation for the different language exams.\n\nGuidance and employment (SOPP): Large-platform focus on giving facilities to students and companies to take advantage in the future contracting of students in order to gain experience for the labour market.\n\nDormitories and accommodation: Providing facilities for accommodation to students and university faculty. Consists of three large facilities, two in Getafe (Gregorio Peces-Barba and Fernando de los Ríos dormitories) and one in Leganés (Fernando Abril Matorell). All of these facilities are in close proximity to their respective campuses. An increasing number of both foreign students and students from other parts of Spain is raising demand in the residences.\n\nPublications and reports: Study and analyze the impacts in today´s world of the different degrees offered by the university.\n\nSocial commitment: Primarily intended to financially assist students with merit-based needs, disabilities, and lower-income students. This also includes the importance of donations of surplus equipment to various NGOs, recycling, and positive synergies with related organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1162700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1162700", "title": "Children's Museum of Bogotá", "text": "Children's Museum of Bogotá\n\nThe Children's Museum of Bogotá (Fundación Museo de los Niños) is a privately managed museum foundation in Bogotá, Colombia's capital city, established in 1986 and aimed at teaching children about science, technology, culture and arts. The foundation operates the Children's Museum in an 8,000 m² (86,000 ft.²) building in the geographical centre of Bogotá, in which over 23 different modules and hundreds of individual exhibits are housed. The museum serves approximately 150,000 visitors per year — 69% of them children under 11 years of age that come to \"learn by playing\" in the exhibits.\n\nIn addition to guided tours, the Children's Museum conducts workshops, special vacation programs for children and highly structured events for schools.\n\nTo celebrate their 15th anniversary, the museum invited the most important young Colombian artists to each paint a mural on the museum walls. This resulted in a collection of 42 murals which have become a landmark for art students in Bogotá. Another highly important program of the Museum is the \"Computer Clubhouse\" — an international program promoted by the Intel Corporation and the Museum of Science, Boston. \"Computer Clubhouse\" teaches children of low income families computer skills for computer animation, graphic design, composing and editing, as a means to close the digital divide in our society. An introduction to robotics is also included in this program.\n\nIn the outer gardens of the museum, a real Boeing 720 aircraft (without actual function, fuel, electricity or engines) is present to teach children the basics of aeronautics. The airliner was donated by Avianca (the biggest airline in Colombia) in the mid 1980s.\n\nThe museum also features a room with a small representation of a city's roads to teach children traffic signs and behaviour while driving or walking on the streets\n\n"}
{"id": "19264475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19264475", "title": "Civil service reform in developing countries", "text": "Civil service reform in developing countries\n\nCivil service reform is a deliberate action to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, professionalism, representativity and democratic character of a civil service, with a view to promoting better delivery of public goods and services, with increased accountability. Such actions can include data gathering and analysis, organizational restructuring, improving human resource management and training, enhancing pay and benefits while assuring sustainability under overall fiscal constraints, and strengthening measures for performance management, public participation, transparency, and combating corruption.\n\nThe civil service reform agenda in developing countries has evolved and changed its focus over the decades. The academic literature on civil service reform has provided arguments and counterarguments clarifying how several approaches to reform affect the overall performance of the civil service. The increasing availability of empirical data allows to test the effectiveness of specific reforms in a given context. While designing effective civil service reforms is a tremendously complex task considering that the right mix of corruption control and performance improvements may vary greatly across and within countries, empirical as well as qualitative research can contribute to the body of evidence-based knowledge on civil service reforms in developing countries.\n\nMany challenges remain as persisting political economy factors hinder the success of civil service reforms.\n\nMax Weber's model of the ideal type of public administration has been an influential approach to civil service reforms in the 20th century. The bureaucratic type of administration contrasts with the patrimonial type in its underlying organizing principles. Weber’s organization of the public administration relies on a clearly defined hierarchical structure with a system of subordination and supervision, a division of labor and specified positions with assigned responsibilities. Contrary to the patrimonial system in which there is no distinction between private and public domains, the Weberian bureaucracy is defined by its impersonal and impartial character. Civil servants operate according to a set of rules and procedures they must observe. Impartiality is in part attained through the professionalization of the civil service and meritocratic recruitment through competitive examinations. For full-time and professionalized civil servants, public office-holding becomes a 'vocation'.\n\nWeberian ideal-typical principles have served as foundations for civil service reforms in developing countries. Scholars and policymakers have been interested in identifying the specific features that determine bureaucratic efficiency and corruption and the mechanisms through which these features increase effectiveness and restrict corrupt behaviour in the civil service.\n\nEmpirical studies found that meritocratic recruitment of public officials in particular is associated with lower corruption levels. There are several ways in which meritocratic recruitment and promotion can restrict corrupt behaviour. To begin with, administering entry examinations and educational attainment requirements enable the selection of competent civil servants. As a matter of fact, a study by the IMF shows that better-educated civil servants are related to lower levels of corruption, better performance including better public finance management and higher tax revenue mobilization as well as higher economic growth.\n\nFurthermore, the internal promotion and career stability of merit-recruited civil servants create a sense of shared commitment to the 'vocation' of office-holding that establishes 'esprit de corps', making it harder for corruption to occur.\n\nOther evidence suggests that a professional merit-based civil service preempts corruption not necessarily through the selection of capable officials but rather through the appointment of civil servants whose interests differ from politicians'. Misaligned interests create a coordination problem which prevents corrupt practices and instead introduces a system of mutual monitoring.\n\nDuring the 1980s, developing countries subject to structural adjustment programs (SAPs) experienced fiscal austerity notably manifested through pressures to reduce the public wage bill. R. Klitgaard raised concerns that falling civil service wages could exacerbate bureaucratic inefficiencies and corruption. Low public sector wages have been associated with lower performance and motivation. Salaries below opportunity cost can induce civil servants to opt for potentially harmful adaptive strategies and seek opportunities for own-account activities. Public officials may ask for compensation through informal or illegal means and these coping strategies compromise the efficiency and honesty of civil service organizations.\n\nGiven these arguments, increasing public officials' wages and other employment benefits has been an important aspect of the civil service reform agenda in developing countries. Economic models based on the early work of Becker and Stigler have had a particular influence on the policy debate.\n\nPrincipal-agent models of corruption in the civil service provide a theoretical analysis of the relationship between public service pay and corruption. The shirking model (Shapiro-Stiglitz) is centred on the choice public officials who have the opportunity to be corrupt must make. These rational utility-maximizing agents decide to engage in morally hazardous behaviour based on a cost-benefit analysis equating the expected returns to corruption (bribes) to the costs of being corrupt (penalties, potential foregone future earnings). Corruption is detected with a certain probability and is punished by job loss or other penalties. The model predicts that, all else equal, higher wages can deter corruption by increasing the value of behaving honestly. However, when bribes are high and punishment and the probability of detection are low, substantial increases in public official's wages may be required to preempt bribery. Another model explaining bureaucratic corruption, the fair-wage model, makes a distinction between need-based and greed-based corruption. According to this theory, public officials are not necessarily driven by greed but find corruption tempting when their salaries do not allow to meet subsistence levels. 'Fairness' is also determined by other factors, such as the salaries of peers within the civil service, private sector wages, social expectations and the status of civil servants. The perception of not being paid a fair wage increases corruptibility and also reduces the moral costs of corruption. This model therefore suggests that even modest increases in salaries ensuring 'fair wages' can reduce civil servants' propensity to solicit and accept bribes.\n\nThe theoretical linkage between public salary increases and corruption remains ambiguous. In a context of constrained government fiscal resources, the question of cost-effectiveness to design optimal wage policies arises. A cross-country study by Van Rijckeghem and Weder endeavours to find empirical support for the fair-wage and efficiency wage hypotheses. The authors conclude that relative government wages are negatively and significantly correlated with measures of corruption but that eradicating corruption would necessitate unrealistic increases in relative wages. These correlations, however, cannot be interpreted as evidence of a causal relationship going from public sector wages to corruption. Causality may run in the reverse direction, pervasive corruption has been shown to reduce tax revenue collection and public expenditures. Poor public finance performance and strong budgetary pressures due to corruption may in turn sustain low civil service salaries. This endogeneity problem complicates the understanding of the relationship between pay reforms and corruption.\n\nKlaus Abbink also tests the fair salary hypothesis in a laboratory experimental setting. The controlled environment in this experiment allows to isolate and identify the impact of 'fair income' considerations on corrupt behaviour. He finds that public officials in two treatments with different perceptions of 'fairness' behave similarly in a bribery game. In other words, high relative public officials salaries do not alter decisions to be corrupt through fairness considerations. These experimental results substantiate Van Rijckeghem and Weder's findings and cast doubt on the cost-effectiveness of increasing public salaries to combat corruption.\n\nDi Tella and Schargrodsky provide additional evidence with their micro-empirical analysis on wages and auditing during a crackdown on corruption in Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1996-97. They argue that wage increases can be effective only when combined with intermediate levels of monitoring intensity (the probability of detection in the shirking model). They test their hypotheses using variations in audit intensity during the crackdown on corruption in public hospitals and find that procurement officers’ wages alone have no statistically significant effect on corruption but detect a negative relationship when wages are interacted with audit intensity. The authors make the case that higher wages and monitoring (“carrots and sticks”) should be used simultaneously to act as an effectual anti-corruption strategy.\n\nThe literature on public officials' salaries and corruption offers mixed or inconclusive evidence and seems to indicate that pay increases is a necessary but insufficient condition for curbing corruption.\n\nWage hikes could also have varying effects depending on whether reforms focus on base-salary (unconditional) increases or performance-related pay increases.\n\nFollowing the dissatisfaction with centralized forms of governance, decentralization of public service provision to sub-national governments became a global trend, particularly in developing countries. Decentralization is the transfer of authority, resources and responsibilities from higher to lower levels of government. Scott and Rao distinguish three types of decentralization:\n\n\nCountries differ in their degree of administrative, political and fiscal decentralization. For instance, in China there is a devolution of administrative and fiscal responsibilities but no political decentralization whereas it is the opposite in India.\n\nThere are several theoretical arguments supporting that decentralization can improve governance and reduce corruption. To begin with, decentralization is believed to bring the government closer to its citizens and to improve the allocation of resources at the local level. The optimal output level of a local public good (at which citizens' marginal benefit equals marginal cost of providing the good) varies across localities because of differences in preferences and costs. Considering that sub-national governments have better information about the preferences and circumstances of their constituencies, they can tailor the provision of public goods according to these preferences, thereby increasing efficiency and total welfare. This idea goes back to F. Hayek's argument in his essay \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" (1945). Hayek asserts that since knowledge is decentralized (\"the knowledge of the particular circumstances of time and place\"), it follows that decisions and control over resources should be decentralized (a necessary although not sufficient condition for achieving optimal allocation).\n\nHowever, principal-agent models demonstrate there can be tradeoffs in transferring decision-making responsibilities. Under these theoretical frameworks, central public officials are assumed to be public-spirited principals and local officials act as self-interested agents. On the one hand, public good delivery can be better adapted to local needs but on the other hand, the decisions are made by agents whose interests differ from the principal. Delegating authority can result in 'control loss' or 'abuse of power'. Decentralization can be more effective than centralized decision-making if the gains from adaptability can outweigh the control loss. The overall effects of decentralization on governance and welfare will therefore depend on the degree to which the principal's and agent's interests are opposed and the principal's ability to exert control over the agent's actions.\n\nIt has also been argued that decentralization can enhance accountability in the service delivery mechanism. Local governments' proximity makes it more feasible for citizens to monitor and hold public officials accountable. The accountability mechanisms work through political decentralization. In a functional local democracy, local elections constitute an 'incomplete contract' enabling citizens to remove non-performing local officials from office. However, as Bardhan and Mookherjee argue, local democracy may not operate effectively in practice in developing countries and may be captured by local elites.\n\nFurthermore, decentralization can reduce corruption by creating horizontal competition between local governments. Tiebout make the case in a 1956 paper that residents' and factors of production's mobility across localities can reduce the monopoly power exercised by local public officials with respect to regulations and bribes. Fiscal and political decentralization encourages inter-jurisdictional competition that pressures sub-national governments to efficiently deliver local public goods. If citizens are dissatisfied with their local government's performance, they can move to other regions, thereby decreasing tax revenues in less efficient jurisdictions. A similar argument concerning the relationship between a decentralized bureaucratic structure and bribe payments has been explored in the academic literature. Rose-Ackerman suggests that a decentralized civil service can reduce bribery since competition between public officials would bid down bribe payments. Vishny and Shleifer further develop this argument, they build a model where citizens and businesses require more than one service or good from several public officials. If government services are substitutes, then the competitive regime still applies. However, when government services are complementary and in the case of a decentralized bureaucratic structure, firms or citizens are facing several independent bureaucrats. Decentralization might therefore lead to a lack of coordination among bribe-seeking bureaucrats and a \"Tragedy of the Commons\" outcome where public officials ask bribe payments that are too high, thereby increasing the burden that corruption imposes on firms and citizens.\n\nDiaby and Sylwester empirically test these hypotheses in a cross-country regression and find that bribe payments are higher under a more decentralized bureaucratic structure. Yet Fisman and Gatti detect a strong negative correlation between fiscal decentralization (as measured by subnational share of total government spending) and corruption. Treisman (2000) examines correlations between eight different measures of decentralization with various measures of corruption and service delivery performance. The same measure of fiscal decentralization used by Fisman and Gatti appears not to be significantly correlated with corruption measures.\n\nDecentralization is a complex process which manifests itself in various forms. The design and impetus for decentralization are specific to each country, which complicates comparisons of a single conception of decentralization. The literature on decentralization experiences in several developing countries suggests the effects of decentralization on public sector performance and corruption are likely to be ambiguous and highly context-specific. The empirical work appears to be inconclusive as various types of decentralization were examined using different measures. What's more, measuring corruption as bribery without paying attention to special interest capture may provide an inaccurate assessment of the impact of decentralization. As Bardhan and Mookherjee argue, bribery may decrease while being replaced by local elite capture as a result of decentralization.\n\nTreisman purports that the theoretical and empirical arguments about decentralization and governance refer to specific types of decentralization. He identifies five types: structural, decision, resource, electoral and institutional decentralization and develops arguments clarifying how each type affects the quality of government. While some types of decentralization can improve governance and reduce corruption, others can undermine government performance, this can in part explain the mixed empirical evidence on the effects of decentralization.\n\nRather than structuring rewards and penalties for corrupt behaviour, another approach to civil service reform seeks to increase the probability that corrupt activity will be observed. Theoretically, monitoring can reduce information asymmetries so that the principal can induce the agent to choose the optimal level of effort and the optimal degree of corrupt activity. As the agent compares his expected payoff of being honest to that of being corrupt, increasing the probability of getting caught and punished will deter corrupt behaviour.\n\nCivil service auditing by the principal or third parties serves an accountability function. The inherent conflict of interest as well as the lack of oversight require independent third parties to certify the reliability of financial reporting, performance results and compliance to rules. Auditors can help exercise oversight by evaluating the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the delivery of government services. These audits must rely on efficiency measures and pre-determined criteria and benchmarks to assess public servant's performance and the impact of government's programs. Performance auditing can also help detect corruption in public entities. Audits highlight irregularities and areas of inefficiencies that may indicate the existence of corruption. Based on suspicious circumstances, auditors can identify illegal behaviour and collect evidence on misdeeds which can subsequently be used to prosecute public servants at fault. As previously mentioned, successful detection efforts by performance auditing can have a deterrent effect on corrupt activities.\n\nAuditing and prosecution were important elements in Justice Plana's campaign to curb corruption in the Bureau of Internal Revenue in the Philippines. Appointed as the new Commissioner of the corrupt Bureau of Internal Revenue, Justice Plana's anti-corruption strategy focused on implementing a new performance evaluation system, gathering information on corruption through intelligence agents and audits and effectively prosecuting corrupt tax officers. While Justice Plana's campaign was a multi-faceted approach, the higher monitoring intensity combined with a highly credible threat of punishment were particularly successful in deterring corrupt behaviour in the Bureau of Internal Revenue. According to Professor Magtolis-Briones, the threat of being detected and prosecuted decidedly lead officials to reconsider their decisions to engage in corrupt activities.\n\nIn Georgia, the success of anti-corruption reforms especially relied on top-down monitoring and prosecution but Schueth warns about the potential abuses of monitoring when fighting corruption. The crackdown on corruption in the tax agency involved coercion such as the use of extra-legal surveillance systems to ensure public officials' observance of the new procedural codes.\n\nLaboratory experiments provide evidence on the impact monitoring. In a controlled bribery experiment in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Armantier and Boly observed that monitoring and punishment can be an effective anti-corruption policy. The researchers had two treatments, low monitoring and high monitoring.While the 'low monitoring' treatment proved effective in curbing bribery, they could not detect significant treatment effects on bribery in the 'high monitoring' treatment. The authors suggest that high monitoring intensity can crowd out intrinsic motivations to behave honestly.\n\nSerra compare the effectiveness of top-down and bottom-up monitoring in a laboratory bribery game between public officials and private citizens. The experimental results suggest that top-down auditing is ineffective in deterring bribery, this may be especially true in weak institutional environments. However, the researcher found that combining formal top-down auditing and bottom-up monitoring created an accountability mechanism that was effective in curbing corruption.\n\nAn alternative approach to improving governance and combating corruption that has gained prominence in recent years is encouraging grassroots participation by community members in local monitoring to induce bottom-up pressures for reform. The 2004 World Development Report: Making Services Work for Poor People is centred on this grassroots approach to development. Community participation is now considered an important component of reforms aiming to improve public service delivery and corruption at the local level.\n\nBottom-up models of governance involve community members participating in the service provision process by allowing them to monitor public officials, to have a say in policymaking, and keep service providers accountable to incentivize them to deliver public goods and services efficiently.\n\nJ. Stiglitz argues that community members, as beneficiaries of public goods and services, will have more incentives to monitor and ensure that governments programs are successful compared to indifferent central bureaucrats. In particular, project involving local citizens will be more likely to succeed since community participation helps sustain efforts towards the long-term continuation of projects necessary to keep them effective.\n\nNevertheless, B. Olken contends that grassroots monitoring for public goods and services may be impaired by a free-rider problem and suggests that government provision of private goods (subsidized food or health care) may generate more incentives to monitor service provision as each community member has a personal interest in securing the effective delivery of goods and in minimizing extortion by public officials. Stiglitz indeed recognizes that grassroots monitoring of public good delivery is in itself a public good and that as such, it is under-provided.\n\nA bottom-up project, the Citizen Report Card (CRC), pioneered by the NGO Public Affairs Center (PAC) was implemented in 1993 in Bangalore, India. This project aimed at gathering local citizens' feedback on civil service performance and publicizing the results through the media, thereby exerting public pressures for the public service to improve its performance and launch reforms. In 1993, the report cards revealed low levels of citizens' satisfaction with service providers, and the expectation was that report cards would serve as an accountability mechanism that would bring forward issues of service provision quality and corruption levels in the public service. While this initiative did raise awareness on such issues, there was some but not dramatic improvement in service delivery quality between 1994 and 1999. However, the difficulty of measuring improvements in service quality other than through subjective measures restricts opportunities to rigorously evaluate this bottom-up initiative.\n\nParticipatory Budgeting in Porto Alegre, Brazil is known among scholars and policymakers as an enduring example of bottom-up reforms. Participatory budgeting allows citizens to voice their demands regarding service delivery improvements, and through negotiations to influence budget funds allocation at the municipality level. This project was initiated in 1989, and is said to have improved access to and the quality of public service provision, especially for lower segments of society. For instance, 27,000 new public housing units were created in 1989 (compared to only 1,700 in 1986), the number of schools quadrupled between 1986 and 1997 while the share of Porto Alegre's budget going to education and health went from 13% in 1985 to about 40% in 1996. Participatory budgeting still has to address some limitations, including lack of representation of the poorest, but its success has led other municipalities in Brazil and public entities in other countries to adopt this initiative.\n\nIn 2010, the Ghanaian government implemented a civil service salary reform, the Single Spine Salary Structure (SSSS) to mitigate pay disparities in the public service. Police officers were the first beneficiaries of this new salary structure as the police service has historically been the least well-paid of public services in Ghana. Their wages unilaterally doubled in an attempt to increase their living standards to reduce bribery (fair-wage hypothesis). Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang assess the impact of this salary reform using a difference-in-difference analysis taking advantage of the exogenous change induced by the policy.\n\nWhile police officers' wages doubled, the salaries of other civil servants in Ghana and police officers in Burkina Faso stayed the same. The researchers identified two groups, the Ghanaian policemen who received the treatment (higher wages) and the control group consisting of other civil servants (Ghanaian custom officers and Burkinabé policemen) whose wages did not increase.\n\nUsing data on bribes paid from 2,100 truck trips between Ghana and Burkina Faso, Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang can observe the differences in interactions with truck drivers between the treated and the control group before the salary reform (2006-2010) and after the salary reform (2010-2012). If we assume group differences would have stayed constant in the absence of the reform (parallel trend assumption), the difference-in-difference coefficient estimate measures the causal impact of the salary increase on Ghanaian police officers' propensity to ask for bribes. The results suggest that the salary reform counterintuively increased police officers' efforts to extort bribes, the value of the bribes and the total amount truck drivers had to pay on the road. This evidence goes against theoretical arguments on pay reforms in the civil service. Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang posit that these results could be due to the lack of enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Without changing the environment and other incentives facing civil servants, it appears that increasing wages may not have the predicted effects on corruption.\n\nCorruption in tax administration has particularly detrimental effects on tax revenue collection, fiscal balance and overall economic performance. Khan, Khwaja and Olken implemented a large-scale randomized experiment in Punjab, Pakistan to assess the impact of performance-based payment schemes for tax collectors. In collaboration with the Punjab provincial government, they randomly allocated tax officials in the provincial urban property tax department into four groups, a control group and three treatment groups corresponding to different pay-for-performance designs.\n\nThe three treatment groups differed in the degree to which tax officers' pay was based on revenue collection performance and on other subjective evaluations from taxpayers and the tax department. The 'Revenue' treatment provided incentives depending only on revenue collection exceeding a benchmark while the 'Revenue Plus' scheme tied salaries to tax collection performance as well as accuracy of tax assessment and taxpayers' satisfaction. The last treatment 'Flexible Plus' added several criteria set by the tax department to determine wages. After two fiscal years, Khan, Khwaja and Olken found that across the three treatment groups, tax revenues increased by 9 log points on average which is equivalent to 46% higher growth of revenues compared to the control group.\n\nThe 'Revenue' scheme was the most effective in increasing tax collection but the researchers found no effects on accuracy of tax assessment or the satisfaction of taxpayers. They note that pay-for-performance schemes may have tradeoffs: giving excessive incentives to tax officers might increase their bargaining power with taxpayers and lead to more extortion and taxpayers' dissatisfaction. However, Khan, Khwaja and Olken point out that the benefits of pay-for-performance contracts outweigh their costs and suggest they can effective in increasing tax revenue collection.\n\nIn 2003, the federal government of Brazil created the Controladoria Geral da União (CGU) charged with corruption prevention and internal control. The CGU launched an anti-corruption program, Programa de Fiscalização por Sorteios Públicos (Monitoring Program with Public Lotteries), which consists in randomly selecting municipalities for audits and publicly disseminating the findings. As of 2015, 12 years after the beginning of the reform, there have been 2,241 audits in 1,949 municipalities. Researchers Avis, Ferraz and Finan exploited the random selection to measure the impact of this anti-corruption program. While some municipalities had been audited several times in the past (treatment group), others were being audited for the first time (control group). Since the municipalities were randomly selected, comparing corruption levels among municipalities in the control and treatment group can provide causal estimates of the effects of the reform.\n\nBased on audit reports, they estimate that 30% of the federal funds transferred to municipalities were stolen. However, they find that corruption levels were 8% lower in municipalities that had previously undergone government audits, thereby suggesting that random audits can be an effective policy against corruption. The researchers posit that random audits can reduce corruption by increasing public officials' perceived probability of being detected. They observed that audits also generated spillover effects, neighbouring municipalities were also affected, having an additional neighbour audited decreased their corruption levels by 7.5%. The local media played a role in disseminating information about other municipalities' audit outcomes.\n\nAvis et al. identify several mechanisms through which the audits led to lower local corruption. First, the new program introduce a system of political accountability whereby local citizens can punish or reward (dis)honest incumbents. Audits may have also altered the types of candidates who enter into politics. What's more, negative audit results can generate reputational costs and potential legal punishments.\n\nThe Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) is an Indonesian government program, financed by the World Bank which funds village-level small-scale infrastructure programs. Benjamin Olken implemented a randomized experiment in which he randomly assigned 608 villages into groups with different audit probabilities prior to the start of a nationwide infrastructure project.\n\nA random sample of villages were informed that the project would be audited by an audit agency once completed. This increased the probability of detection from 4% to 100%. The audit results were publicly disseminated by the auditors during village meetings. Olken also designed experiments to increase local members' participation in 'accountability meetings' where officials in charge of the road-building project expose how the budget will be spent.\n\nTo assess the impact of both monitoring mechanisms, the researcher uses a quantitative measure of corruption levels based on engineers' assessment of the quantity of materials used to build the roads and estimated costs. The discrepancies between project’s official costs reported by village project leaders and the costs estimated by independent engineers measures missing expenditures which are used as a proxy for corruption in Olken's study. It was estimated that on average 24% of materials were missing based on road samples, suggesting that part of the project funds were diverted. Olken finds that increasing the probability of external audits significantly reduced missing expenditures (by 8%), and that this approach to fighting corruption is cost-effective. Top-down audits were more effective when village elections were close, which implies that local level accountability can be effective in restraining corrupt behaviour. However, the interventions to increase grassroots participation did not have any significant effects on missing funds.\n\nPolitical economy dynamics condition the success of civil service reforms. North et al. argue that some developing countries function as 'limited access orders' in which elites exclude broad cross-sections of society to maintain an equilibrium that enables them to extracts rents. In such an equilibrium, political elites have no incentives to break down their patronage networks and introduce meritocratic recruitment reforms in the civil service as it would threaten their position and reduce their opportunities for rent-seeking. The clientelist system on the contrary can be a powerful mechanism through which elites maintain this 'limited access order'. Considerably depending on clientelist and patronage networks increases the costs of implementing public sector reforms. Elites will therefore be likely to oppose reforms as they stand to lose the most.\n\nWhat's more, civil service reforms are costly to implement in the short-term while their benefits will be manifested and reaped in the future. Governments are thus unwilling to make such unappealing investment. The long-term nature of reforms and the reluctance to initiate, gather and maintain support for reforms prevent their implementation in the first place. In a background paper for the 2011 World Bank Development Report, de Weijer and Pritchett appraise that it would take about 20 years to witness improvements in the functional capability of the state. In almost every countries, this exceeds the average duration of a term of office, political incumbents would have no incentives to incur the costs to carry out reforms while the benefits will accrue to future incumbents.\n\nIn addition, bureaucratic inertia and resistance to change should not be overlooked. Bureaucrats may be disinclined to accept changes brought by civil service reforms. This is especially true in countries where bureaucrats depend on informal or illegal channels to complement their meager salaries.\n\nInstitutional structures or types of political regimes also matter for reform implementation and success. In a democratic regime, political incumbents may see it in their interests to initiate bureaucratic reforms if voters value and acknowledge the public benefits of reforms. However, demand for civil service reforms remains weak in developing countries. Even if bureaucratic corruption is condemned across countries, the internal demand for anti-corruption reforms is undermined by a collective action problem. Indeed, Persson, Rohstein and Teorell argue that civil service reforms have failed as a result of their mischaracterization of corruption. Most approaches to civil service reform rely on principal-agent frameworks that assume that 'principled principals' are public-spirited and will always take on the task to fight corruption and improve bureaucratic performance. However, the authors contend that, in contexts where corruption is pervasive, actors will not necessarily respond to incentives aiming at altering their behaviour but instead behave based on the extent to which corruption is the expected behaviour in society.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16911699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16911699", "title": "Colorado Education Association", "text": "Colorado Education Association\n\nThe Colorado Education Association (CEA) is a statewide federation of teacher and educational workers' labor unions in the state of Colorado in the United States. The CEA is a voluntary membership organization of 40,000 K-12 teachers and education support professionals, higher education faculty and support professionals, retired educators, and students preparing to become teachers. The CEA is a state affiliate of the National Education Association (NEA), America's oldest and largest organization dedicated to advancing the cause of public education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "874582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874582", "title": "David Mazzucchelli", "text": "David Mazzucchelli\n\nDavid John Mazzucchelli (; born September 21, 1960) is an American comics artist and writer, known for his work on seminal superhero comic book storylines \"\" and \"\", as well as for graphic novels in other genres, such as \"Asterios Polyp\" and \"\". He is also an instructor who teaches comic book storytelling at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan.\n\nMazzucchelli received his BFA from the Rhode Island School of Design, and started working in comics in the early 1980s, first at Marvel Comics where, after a few fill-in jobs, he became the regular artist on \"Daredevil\". He worked with writer Denny O'Neil and culminated his work on this title with the \"\" story arc, written by Frank Miller.\n\nMiller and Mazzucchelli collaborated again on the graphic novel \"\", serialized in issues #404–407 of DC Comics' monthly \"Batman\" title, and published in a single volume shortly afterwards. \"Batman: Year One\" is considered one of the best Batman stories ever produced. Mazzucchelli had previously worked on Batman in a five page backup story in \"World's Finest Comics\" #302 (April 1984).\n\nAfter \"Batman: Year One\", Mazzucchelli drew an Angel story in \"Marvel Fanfare\" #40 (Oct. 1988). He then moved on to focus on more personal projects. He published three issues of his own independent anthology, \"Rubber Blanket\", co-edited by his wife, painter Richmond Lewis, in which he began finding his voice as a writer in addition to exploring new avenues of visual expression. His evocative and haunting stories in \"Rubber Blanket\", notably \"Near Miss,\" \"Dead Dog,\" \"Discovering America,\" and \"Big Man,\" set the stage for his work to come. With writer/artist Paul Karasik, he co-wrote and illustrated an adaptation of Paul Auster's \"City of Glass\", published first by Avon Books in 1994, then by Picador in 2004 as \"\". Auster's later book \"The Brooklyn Follies\" features a character with the name Nancy Mazzucchelli, an homage to David. He continued to write and draw short comics for various publishers until 2000. Mazzucchelli was one of the artists on the \"\" one-shot written by Evan Dorkin.\n\nIn 2009, Pantheon Books published Mazzucchelli's graphic novel, \"Asterios Polyp\".\n\nMazzucchelli has also done illustrations for various publications, including interior pieces and covers for \"The New Yorker\" In 2011, an of \"Batman: Year One\" was released by Warner Home Video.\n\nMazzucchelli currently teaches a cartooning course for BFA students at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan.\n\n\nInterior comic work includes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2453547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2453547", "title": "Diane F. Halpern", "text": "Diane F. Halpern\n\nDiane F. Halpern is an American psychologist and former president of the American Psychological Association (APA). She is Dean of Social Science at the Minerva Schools at KGI (Keck Graduate Institute) and also the McElwee Family Professor of Psychology at Claremont McKenna College. She is also past-president of the Western Psychological Association, The Society for the Teaching of Psychology, and the Division of General Psychology.\n\nHalpern served on boards and panels at the APA including the Board of Educational Affairs, the Council of Representatives, the Committee on International Relations in Psychology, the Committee on Learning Outcomes, and Teachers of Psychology in Secondary Schools. She chaired the Panel on Public Policy and APA's National Conference on Undergraduate Education that resulted in the publication \"Undergraduate Education in Psychology: A Blueprint for the Future of the Discipline\".\n\nAlong with Keith Millis (Northern Illinois University) and Arthur C. Graesser (University of Memphis), Halpern developed Operation ARA, a computerized game that teaches scientific reasoning. She also developed the Halpern Critical Thinking Assessment (Schuhfried Publishers) that uses multiple response formats which allow test-takers to demonstrate their ability to think about everyday topics using both constructed response and recognition formats.\n\nHalpern received her B.A. from University of Pennsylvania and an M.A. from Temple University. She then received an M.A., from University of Cincinnati, followed by a Ph.D. from that institution in 1979. After teaching for many years at the California State University, San Bernardino, she is currently Professor of Psychology at Claremont McKenna College.\n\nIn 1995, Halpern was part of an 11-member APA task force led by Ulric Neisser which published \"\", a report written in response to \"The Bell Curve\". She has also written on cognitive differences between men and women. She suggests a biopsychosocial model offers superior insight into cognitive sex differences than a simple nature-vs-nurture dichotomy. Another topic of her research is risks associated with left-handedness. Halpern has also written in opposition of single-sex schooling, noting that it \"lacks scientific support and may exaggerate sexism and gender stereotyping.\"\n\nHalpern has won awards for her teaching and research, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "984228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984228", "title": "Didactic method", "text": "Didactic method\n\nA didactic method ( \"didáskein\", \"to teach\") is a teaching method that follows a consistent scientific approach or educational style to present information to students. The didactic method of instruction is often contrasted with dialectics and the Socratic method; the term can also be used to refer to a specific didactic method, as for instance constructivist didactics.\n\nDidactics is a theory of teaching, and in a wider sense, a theory and practical application of teaching and learning. In demarcation from \"mathetics\" (the science of learning), didactics refers only to the science of teaching.\n\nThis theory might be contrasted with open learning, also known as experiential learning, in which people can learn by themselves, in an unstructured manner, on topics of interest.\n\nThe theory of didactic learning methods focuses on the baseline knowledge students possess and seeks to improve upon and convey this information. It also refers to the foundation or starting point in a lesson plan, where the overall goal is knowledge. A teacher or educator functions in this role as an authoritative figure, but also as both a guide and a resource for students.\n\nDidactics or the didactic method have different connotations in continental Europe and English speaking countries . For the Anglo-Saxon tradition , the didactic method still carries the original meaning of teaching moral contents, and is therefore associated with unfavourable views opposed to the teachings of a true art or science . The Oxford dictionary merely defines didactics as a particularly moral instruction . Didacticism was indeed the cultural origin of the didactic method but refers within its narrow context usually pejoratively to the use of language to a doctrinal end. The interpretation of these opposing views are theorised to be the result of a differential cultural development in the 19th century when Great Britain and its former colonies went through a renewal and increased cultural distancing from continental Europe. It was particularly the later appearance of Romanticism and Aestheticism in the Anglo-Saxon world which offered these negative and limiting views of the didactic method. In continental Europe those moralising aspects of didactics were removed earlier by cultural representatives of the age of enlightenment, such as Voltaire, Rousseau, and later specifically related to teaching by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi.\n\nThe consequences of these cultural differences then created two main didactic traditions: The Anglo-Saxon tradition of curriculum studies on one side and the Continental and North European tradition of didactics on the other. Still today, the science of didactics carries much less weight in much of the English-speaking world.\n\nWith the advent of globalisation at the beginning of the 20th century, however, the arguments for such relative philosophical aspects in the methods of teaching started to diminish somewhat. It is therefore possible to categorise didactics and pedagogy as a general analytic theory on three levels:\n\n\nDidactic method provides students with the required theoretical knowledge. It is an effective method used to teach students who are unable to organize their work and depend on the teachers for instructions. It is also used to teach basic skills of reading and writing. The teacher or the literate is the source of knowledge and the knowledge is transmitted to the students through didactic method.\n\nDidactic Teaching materials:\n\nThe Montessori school had preplanned teaching (Didactic) materials designed, to develop practical, sensory, and formal skills. Lacing and buttoning frames, weights, and packet to be identified by their sound or smell. Because they direct learning in the prepared environment, Montessori educators are called directress rather than teachers.\n\n\nIn didactic method of teaching, the teacher gives instructions to the students and the students are mostly passive listeners. It is a teacher-centered method of teaching and is content oriented. The content or knowledge of the teacher is not questioned.\n\nThe process of teaching involves the teacher who gives instructions, commands, delivers content, and provides necessary information. The pupil activity involves listening and memorization of the content. In the modern education system, lecture method which is one of the most commonly used methods is a form of didactic teaching.\n\nThough the didactic method has been given importance in several schools, it does not satisfy the needs and interests of all students. It can be tedious for students to listen to the possible lectures. There is minimum interaction between the students and the teachers. Learning which also involves motivating the students to develop an interest towards the subject may not be satisfied through this teaching method. \n\n"}
{"id": "52786956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52786956", "title": "Digital pedagogy", "text": "Digital pedagogy\n\nDigital pedagogy is the study and use of contemporary digital technologies in teaching and learning. Digital pedagogy may be applied to online, hybrid, and face-to-face learning environments.\n\nDigital pedagogy has its origins in distance learning, which during the early twentieth century took the form of correspondence courses delivered by mail. The University of London offered the first distance learning degrees with its External Programme of 1858. Charles Dickens famously said of the External Programme that it was the \"Peoples' University,\" as it allowed broader access to higher education. With the improvement of communication technologies, it was assumed that the TV and radio would begin to change the course of education. In the United States, educational TV programs and radio broadcasts were created by institutions such as the University of Louisville with the cooperation of NBC. Telecourses saw a resurgence in the early 1970s with the spread of community colleges. These distance courses paved the way for online education, which came to prevalence during the popularization of the Internet, beginning at the end of the twentieth century.\n\nDigital pedagogy values open education, including open educational resources; sharing syllabi; sharing teaching resources through tools such as GitHub and Creative Commons; self-directed interest based student project, and publishing using open access and open peer review. Digital Pedagogy is not only about using digital technologies for teaching and learning but rather approaching digital tools from a critical pedagogical perspective. So, it is as much about using digital tools thoughtfully as it is about deciding when not to use digital tools, and about paying attention to the impact of digital tools on learning.\n\nImmersive technology can be used in the classroom as a form of digital pedagogy. It provides students the ability to engage in 3D modeling and collaborative world building. Examples of 3D modeling includes Matthew Nicholls' Virtual Rome and SketchUp Pro which allows users to create 3D models of historical structures.\n\nDigital pedagogy looks critically at digital tools as potential means for learning and teaching. It considers digital content and space as valuable sites for information and knowledge, in addition to traditional mediums such as books or the classroom. Digital pedagogy itself is also sensitive to the ongoing discussions and debates happening within the sphere of digital humanities, namely to its practices, principles and politics.\n\nThe following tools have been widely utilized in elementary school and high school classrooms in successful examples of digital pedagogy:\n\n\nThe experimental nature of digital pedagogy enables critical reflection on its successes and contradictions in its educative possibilities. As such, it becomes a key foray into the ongoing discussion of educational technology. For example, engagement in the philosophies of digital pedagogy has renewed discussion on the politics and ethics of technology and its implication of learning as a whole.\n\n\nAcknowledging the changing nature of new media practices and interaction, digital pedagogy centers the student by designing various student-led, collaborative and project-based activities to allow students to control the pace and space of learning. It is within the digital geography where new collaborative, interactive, and participatory possibilities are introduced. Platforms, such as massive open online courses (MOOCs), now supplement the physically-located classrooms.\n\nThe following tools have been utilized in higher education classrooms:\n\n\nBased on theories stemming from Critical Race Theory, Feminist Theory, Liberation-based theory and other philosophical approaches that address how understanding power structures is essential to the dismantling of oppression, Critical Digital Pedagogy follows the ethics of acknowledging no information, knowledge, learning or teaching is ever neutral of political meaning. Reflective dialogue is a key component of a critical consciousness-raising, a liberatory praxis attributed to Paulo Freire, in learning so that the learning process itself is a praxis of liberation. Critical Digital Pedagogy integrates a second-order, metal-level analysis as part of teaching and learning about or through the use of web-based tools, digital platforms and other forms of technology. As a method or resistance against oppression, Critical Digital Pedagogy seeks to engage individuals in collaborative practices, is inclusive of voices across social-political identities, and situates itself outside boundaries of traditional education, which is considered to be based on a banking model of teaching.\n\nDigital pedagogy for K-12 education follows models such as hybrid or blended learning and online-only classes. The implementation of online-only courses in K-12 education has become more popular as budget cuts make offering higher level courses such as AP classes less feasible, or if there is not enough student interest to warrant offering the subject. Fully online courses involve a digital teacher who has many digital students with no in-class or face-to-face time. These courses can be facilitated either within a school or made accessible to home-school or abroad students. Many virtual school options receive at least partial funding from state education initiatives and are monitored by state educational committees. Florida Virtual School, is funded through the Florida Education Finance Program (FEFP), and is free to Florida residents. FLVS is governed by a board of trustees appointed by the governor, and its performance is monitored by the Commissioner of Education and reported to the State Board of Education and Legislature.\n\nThere is much debate over the efficacy of virtual school options. The consensus on blended education, where students receive face-to-face instruction from teachers and the online portions are only conducted in partial time, is largely positive. Blended learning is credited with allowing students to take some agency with the pace of learning, something that would not otherwise be available to them in a traditional classroom. It allows students to make meaningful decisions about their learning and sets a basis for lifelong self-motivation and learning. The use of new technologies in classrooms also allows students to keep pace with innovations in learning technologies, to expand the pedagogical toolset available to them, such as message-boards and videos, and to have instantaneous feedback and evaluation.\n\nHowever, in fully online courses, the benefits of online learning is less clear. While more advanced students may excel in online courses, reported in one study of online mathematics for grade 8 students, the students who need the most help may suffer disproportionately to their peers in traditional face-to-face courses. It would appear that online-only courses exacerbate difficulties for needy students as well as allow more advanced students the agency desired to excel in individual learning.  \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16350441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16350441", "title": "Dolphin Scholarship Foundation", "text": "Dolphin Scholarship Foundation\n\nDolphin Scholarship Foundation (DSF) was established in 1960 to assist children of the U.S. Submarine Force with college scholarships through private fundraising and donations, as well as any dividends from its trust fund. \n\nThe first scholarship of $350 was awarded to John L. Haines, Jr. in June 1961. Funds were raised primarily through the tireless efforts of submarine officers' wives' organizations throughout the United States. As the cost of college education continued to skyrocket, so did the need for the Foundation to assist children of Submariners. Today DSF receives individual, corporate, memorial and Combined Federal Campaign donations, as well as continued strong support from the submarine community and spouse organizations. Donations go directly to support scholarships; income from DSF investments supplement these contributions for scholarships and operating expenses. Dolphin Scholarship Foundation also conducts fundraisers such as the Annual Cartoon Calendar (since 1963), the Annual Golf Tournament in Hampton Roads, Virginia (since 2006) and virtual submarine races. \nDolphin Scholarship Foundation currently awards 137 annual scholarships of $3,400 to each Dolphin Scholar. Each recipient may potentially receive a total of $13,600 for up to eight semesters of undergraduate study. The number of new awards granted each year is determined by graduation and attrition of current Dolphin Scholars. Dolphin Scholarship Foundation is proud to have awarded over eight million dollars to over 1000 students attending universities and colleges through the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "38138335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38138335", "title": "EU Open Data Portal", "text": "EU Open Data Portal\n\nThe EU Open Data Portal gives access to open data published by EU institutions, agencies and other bodies . The portal is a key element of EU open data strategy.\n\nLaunched in December 2012 in beta mode, the portal was formally established by Commission Decision of 12 December 2011 (2011/833/EU) on the reuse of Commission documents to promote accessibility and reuse. \n\nWhile the operational management of the portal is the task of the Publications Office of the European Union, implementation of EU open data policy is the responsibility of the Directorate General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology of the European Commission.\n\nThe portal allows anyone to easily search, explore, link, download and reuse the data for commercial or non-commercial purposes, through a catalogue of common metadata. Through this catalogue, users access data stored on the websites of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies.\n\nSemantic technologies offer new functionalities. The metadata catalogue can be searched via an interactive search engine (Data tab) and through SPARQL queries (Linked data tab). There is also a showcase of visualisation applications from various EU institutions, agencies and other bodies.\n\nUsers can suggest data they would like the portal to be linked to, give feedback on the quality of data obtainable and share information with other users about how they have used it.\n\nThe interface is in 24 EU official languages, while most metadata are currently available in a limited number of languages (English, French and German). Some of the metadata (e.g. names of the data providers, geographical coverage) are in 24 languages following the translation of controlled vocabulary lists that are used by the portal.\n\nMost data accessible via the EU Open Data Portal are covered by the Europa Legal Notice and can be reused free of charge, for commercial and non-commercial purposes, provided that the source is acknowledged. Specific conditions on reuse, related mostly to the protection of third-party intellectual property rights, apply for a very limited amount of data.\n\nThe portal contains a very wide variety of high-value open data across EU policy domains, as also more recently identified by the G8 Open Data Charter. These include the economy, employment, science, environment and education. The number of data providers — which include Eurostat, the European Environment Agency and the Joint Research Centre — continues to grow.\n\nSo far, around 70 EU institutions, bodies or departments (e.g. Eurostat, the European Environment Agency, the Joint Research Centre and other European Commission Directorates General and EU Agencies) have made datasets available, making a total of over 11,700.\n\nIn addition to giving access to datasets, the portal also is an easy entry point to a whole range of visualisation applications using EU data. The applications are displayed as much for their information value as for giving examples of what applications can be made using the data.\n\nThe portal is built using open source solutions such as the Drupal content management system and CKAN, the data catalogue software developed by the Open Knowledge Foundation. It uses Virtuoso as an RDF database and has a SPARQL endpoint.\n\nIts metadata catalogue is built on the basis of international standards such as Dublin Core, the data catalogue vocabulary DCAT and the asset description metadata schema ADMS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30364685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30364685", "title": "Elizabeth Masson", "text": "Elizabeth Masson\n\nElizabeth Masson (1806 – 9 January 1865) was an English mezzo-soprano singer and composer. She was born in Scotland and studied singing with Mrs. Henry Smart and Giuditta Pasta in Italy. She made her debut at Ella's Second Subscription concert in 1831, and sang regularly at Philharmonic Society Concerts. She later worked as a singing teacher and composed songs, publishing a collection. She founded the Royal Society of Female Musicians in 1839, and died in London.\n\nSelected works include:\n"}
{"id": "17659201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17659201", "title": "Frank Arneil Walker", "text": "Frank Arneil Walker\n\nFrank Arneil Walker OBE is a Scottish architectural academic and writer.\n\nHe is emeritus professor of architecture of the University of Strathclyde. He writes regularly on architectural and urban history, is author of \"The South Clyde Estuary\", and co-author of \"The North Clyde Estuary\" and \"Central Glasgow\" in the Royal Incorporation of Architects in Scotland series of handbooks on Scottish architecture.\n\nHe is also a contributor to the \"Buildings of Scotland\" series, having written \"Argyll and Bute\" and co-written \"Stirling and Central Scotland\".\n\nWalker was awarded the OBE in 2002 for services to architectural history and conservation.\n"}
{"id": "20430586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20430586", "title": "Global Hands-On Universe", "text": "Global Hands-On Universe\n\nIn a paper published in 2007 by Dr. Carl Pennypacker, the Global Hands-On Universe (GHOU) is presented as an educational program that enables students to investigate the Universe while applying tools and concepts from science, math, and technology. Using the Internet, G-HOU participants around the world request observations from an automated telescope, download images from a large image archive, and analyze them with the aid of user-friendly image processing software, as described by Dr. Miller.\n\nGlobal Hands-On Universe is a worldwide project, with extensions over all the continents, the root project being GHOU. The project is based on observations, possibly acquired by the pupils themselves in classrooms thanks to a worldwide network of automatic telescopes operated via Internet or didactic tools (webcam system, radio telescope) developed within this project. These observations can be manipulated in classrooms with a specific software designed to be pupil-friendly. They are integrated into pedagogical resources constructed in a close collaborative work between researchers and teachers. The resources developed in the course of this project are posted on the Web site.\n\nThe International Astronomical Union (IAU) launched in 2009 the Galileo Teacher Training Program (GTTP), a Cornerstone project of the International Year of Astronomy 2009. GHOU is a major component of GTTP.\n\nGHOU, among which EU-HOU is the leading consortium, is now officially included in the Astronomy for the Developing World Strategic Plan 2010-20 of IAU, under Section 3.4.2 Astronomy for Children and Schools. During the next decade the IAU will concentrate more resources on education activities for children and schools designed to advance sustainable global development.\n\nIn Europe, the EU-HOU project is led by Dr. Ferlet & Dr A.-L. Melchior. EU-HOU has been funded through the European Community (EC) program MINERVA (SOCRATES) for a two-year period (2004–2006), and through the European Community (EC) program COMENIUS (LifeLong Learning Program) for two two-year periods (2008–2010, 2010-2012). EU-HOU has extended up to 15 EC countries, with national websites. The Pierre and Marie Curie University in Paris is the educational centre for the EU-HOU project. The EU-HOU project has developed numerous (free) pedagogical resources tested in classrooms and posted on the project's website. The most ambitious ones are: (1) the multilingual SalsaJ software: it enables secondary school pupils to handle astronomical data and analyse them. An exercise series based on this software has been developed. Associated data can be downloaded directly from the software. (2) The EUHOUMW Small Radiotelescope Network developed in the framework of the Comenius project \"Connecting classrooms to the Milky Way\" enables secondary school pupils to access the instruments installed in five different European countries (France, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain). Kids can observe the hydrogen from the Milky Way with these 3-metres radiotelescopes. Every operation can be performed from the Web interface, available in 17 different languages, which enables the learners to reconstruct the rotation curve of the Milky Way as well as its spiral arms. Pedagogical resources (teacher's manual, simulator of observation, archives, kinesthetic activities) have been tested in teacher's training, secondary school level and also at undergraduate level.\n\nIn America, the US HOU project is led by the United States with support from the National Science Foundation, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Energy. In the USA, HOU has developed and pilot tested an educational program that enables high school students to request their own observations from professional observatories. Students download telescope images to their classroom computers and use the powerful HOU image processing software to visualize and analyze their data. High school curriculum developed by HOU integrates many of the science and math topics and skills outlined in national standards into open-ended astronomical investigations. HOU has also developed activities and tools for middle school students and products for informal science education centers. The Lawrence Hall of Science at University of California, Berkeley, is the educational center for the HOU project.\n\nIn Asia, the AS-HOU section have China and Japan strongly involved. They have their own web sites.\n\nIn Africa, AF-HOU is now extending to Kenya with a recently launched pilot, researchbased astronomy and astrophysics curriculum into Kenya High in Nairobi, Kenya as a vehicle to introducing the methodologies of scientific research into secondary education.\n\nIn the context of the European Commission Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013, EU-HOU proposes regular European training sessions in France, at Pierre-and-Marie-Curie University in Paris, since 2010. These sessions are published on the Comenius training database (reference numbers: FR-2010-314-003, FR-2011-359-006, FR-2013-408-003).\n\nThe main goal of these training sessions is to re-awake the interest for science in the young generation with inquiry-based methods. Active methods based e.g. on kinesthesia (Proprioception) have been recently introduced to introduce modelling concepts. Renewing of the teaching of science is fulfilled through astronomy as a well-established source of motivation, and through the use of new Information and Communication Technologies - ICT. Involving teachers in a variety of research-based astronomical projects, they will get excited, enthused and motivated to teach science/technology/maths. The training is intended to enhance basic competencies of teachers and develop higher level skills and expertise, primarily in Information and communication technologies in education (ICT), maths and physics area.\n\nThese sessions are financed through European Commission Comenius national Agencies (Comenius programme). Information related to scheduled training sessions are posted on the EU-HOU Website and its news.\n\nA dedicated forum in English has been opened to favour feed-back from trained teachers and interaction with a wider educator and researcher community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39006564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39006564", "title": "Hello Herman", "text": "Hello Herman\n\nHello, Herman is an American drama written by John Buffalo Mailer. Michelle Danner directed the film version, starring Norman Reedus, Garrett Backstrom, Rob Estes and Martha Higareda, which appeared at the 16th Annual Hollywood Film Festival in October 2012.\nSet in the not so distant future, in the United States, sixteen-year-old Herman Howards makes a fateful decision. He enters his suburban school and kills thirty nine students, two teachers, and a police officer. Just before his arrest he emails his idol, famous journalist Lax Morales, sending him clips of the shootings captured with Herman's own digital camera. In the clips Herman tells Lax, \"I want to tell my story on your show\". Lax, haunted by his own past, is now face to face with Herman. Herman is executed in the electric chair. The movie explores why and how a massacre like this can happen in our society, desensitizing in America, youth violence and bullying, the impact the media has on our individual quest for fame, and ultimately our need for connection.\n\n\"Hello Herman\" holds a 13% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 6 reviews, with a rating average of 4/10. Metacritic has given the film a weighted average score of 27/100, based on 5 reviews, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\nSam Adams of \"Time Out New York\" said that the most fitting punishment for \"Hello Herman\" was to simply ignore its existence: \"it barely tries to offer insight into its much-debated subject, content to rip the scab off an ever-fresh wound for the sake of controversy.\" \"The Los Angeles Times\"s Amy Nicholson wrote about the incompetence of the director: \"we're not sure what director Michelle Danner, who plays Herman's defensive mother in an uncredited role, wants us to get besides a reminder that angry boys act out for a host of half-defined reasons.\" \"The Village Voice\"s Rob Staeger stated that \"the dialogue is all surface: emotions are laid out on the autopsy table for the audience to dissect and analyze, but rarely feel.\" \"The New York Times\"s Jeannette Catsoulis finds that \"pointing at everything and elucidating nothing, Hello Herman arrives freighted with the anti-bullying agenda of its director, Michelle Danner.\" In contrast to other critics, Sam Kashner of Vanity Fair said that “\"Hello Herman\" is a powerful and important work, a darkly brilliant tone poem about America’s tango with violence and fame. Herman will get under your skin. He may even follow you home. What is certain is you won’t soon forget him.”\n\nThe Examiner's Courtney Hartmann hit says that “Michelle Danner’s \"Hello Herman\" takes a look at the troubled youth of America… the film will definitely spark up conversations that have never really died since Columbine. The issues of teens in America especially when it comes to bullying and retaliation are a problem that need to be addressed far beyond a film.” Danny Miller of MSN Movies called \"Hello Herman\" “A powerful film that should be required viewing for adolescents everywhere.\"\n\nDirector Michelle Danner issued a statement through the \"Hello Herman\" website addressing those that did not quite understand her intentions. \"\"Hello Herman\" is being released today and it is sparking a lot of controversy. Some would love for me to not have made this movie. They want you to ignore the problem of violence in America. Many understand why I made this movie. They called it 'Daring… Unnerving, thought provoking…The type of movie that Hollywood rarely makes but should make more often.' I am purposely making a point to touch on many issues. It’s about being very focused on the fact that there isn’t just one issue contributing to the escalating violence in teens, there are a multitude of them. Our world is not safe. I am a mother and feel a responsibility. This breakout violence is not going away. It’s spiraling out of control. There are so many factors that come together for these events to occur. I wanted to start the conversation and not let it die. When a shooting happens the media pounds on us and then they’re on to the next thing. No one does anything and it happens again and again. That’s why I made the film. Nothing changes. We need to keep seeing movies that deal with these issues. No, it’s not a popcorn film. We can’t drop the ball on this one. This is the world we are leaving to our children and this world is getting more and more dangerous. We have to do something about it.\"\n\nAs of July 7, 2013, \"Hello Herman\" has earned $8,437 in North America with an estimated budget of $1,500,000. The film earned $5,985 on its opening weekend.\n\nArkansasOnline\n\nCurrent Movie Reviews\n\nDigitalJournal\n\nL.A. Times\n\nNerd Reactor\n\nNew York Times\n\nReelTalk\n\nShreveport Times\n\nSlantMagazine\n\nTimeOut\n\nVillageVoice\n\nBestMoviesEverNews\n\n"}
{"id": "40505153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40505153", "title": "Hemsley Fraser", "text": "Hemsley Fraser\n\nHemsley Fraser is a learning and development company, with offices in the UK (London and Plymouth), the USA (Washington DC) and Germany (Frankfurt). It provides training courses, digital and blended learning, consulting services and managed learning services. Founded in 1991, Hemsley Fraser operates in 50 countries and works with 36 percent of Fortune Global 500 corporations.\n\nIn 2008, Hemsley Fraser was acquired by France-based training group Demos. In 2016, Demos was acquired by China-based training and education group Weidong.\n\n\n\nEstablished in 1972 - and headquartered in Paris, France - Demos is a global provider of learning and development, with 650 employees and a network of 3,000 trainers.\n\nBased in Beijing, China, Weidong Group provides online training for 130 million learners in 195 countries. It is Unesco's first world partner in the field of education.\n\n"}
{"id": "56996850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56996850", "title": "Henry Levin (economist)", "text": "Henry Levin (economist)\n\nHenry M. Levin is an education economist and the William Heard Kilpatrick Professor of Economics and Education at Columbia University's Teacher's College. Moreover, he is the co-director of the Center for Benefit-Cost Studies in Education (CBCSE) and the director of the National Center for the Study of Privatization in Education (NCSPE). Levin has been elected to the National Academy of Education and has received the American Educational Research Association's Distinguished Contributions to Research in Education Award for his research on the impact of markets and competition on the effectiveness of schools and the cost of inadequate education.\n\nHenry M. Levin has earned a B.S. in marketing and economics from New York University in 1960, followed by an M.A. and a Ph.D. in economics from Rutgers University in 1962 and 1967. After his graduation, Levin became an assistant professor of education and economics at Stanford University before being promoted to associate professor in 1969, to full professor in 1975 and becoming the David Jacks Professor of Higher Education and Economics in 1992. In 1999, Levin emerited from Stanford. While at Stanford, he directed the Institute for Research on Educational Finance and Governance (1969-75), the Center for Educatioal Research (1975-99), and founded the Accelerated Schools project. Since his emeritation from Stanford in 1999, Levin has been the William Heard Kilpatrick Professor of Economics and Education and the director of the National Center for the Study for Privatization in Education at Columbia University's Teacher's College. Additionally, he has also co-directed the Center for Benefit-Cost Studies in Education after 2007.\n\nLevin performs editorial duties for - among else - the \"Peabody Journal of Education\", \"Economics of Education Review\", \"Journal of Education and Work\", \"Urban Review\", and \"American Behavioral Scientist\" and has done so in the past for e.g. the \"American Educational Research Journal\" and the \"Review of Educational Research\". He has worked as a consultant for the U.S. Department of Education, National Science Foundation, OECD, and World Bank.\n\nHenry M. Levin is specialized on the economics of education and human resources, urban economics, public finance and education policy. More specifically, he has researched cost effectiveness approaches to evaluation, school finance, the relationship between education and inequality, market-based approaches to education, and accelerated schools for at-risk students.\n\n"}
{"id": "49897537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49897537", "title": "International Student Selection Examination", "text": "International Student Selection Examination\n\nThe University Entrance Exam for International or overseas students (YÖS) is prepared for international students who consider to apply and study in Turkish universities and its result is used to evaluate the performance of students and enroll in undergraduate programmes. This exam had been done by the ÖSYM (Measuring, Selection and Placement Center) until 2010. Then, each university in Turkey has the authority to set and design the YÖS examination according to their ruling with the decision of the Higher Education Center.\n\nOnline applications for Ondokuz Mayıs University Entrance Exam for International or overseas students (OMU-YÖS) started on 4 January 2016. This exam will be held on April 30, at 10.00 am according to the local time of Turkey in five different languages (Turkish, English,Russian, Arabic, German) and will be given at the same time in 42 different exam centers in 28 countries.\n\nIn addition, Distance Education and Research Center of Ondokuz Mayıs University (UZEM) announced on 19 January 2016 that they would provide YÖS Preparation Course.\n\n"}
{"id": "12098192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12098192", "title": "Joseph M. Williams", "text": "Joseph M. Williams\n\nJoseph M. Williams (18 August 1933, Cleveland, Ohio – 22 February 2008, South Haven, Michigan) was a professor in the Department of English Language and Literature at the University of Chicago where he promoted clarity in writing for many years. He authored several books on language and writing.\n\nWilliams began as a researcher of English language. In \"Origins of the English Language: A Social & Linguistic History\" he traces the history of the English language from the evolution of man through to Modern English. His interest in studying close connection between grammar and rhetoric, reflected in another earlier book \"The New English: Structure, Form, Style\", culminated in , his noteworthy textbook on writing style.\n\nIn \"Style\", based on \"The Little Red Schoolhouse\" course he taught at Chicago for many years, Williams established and vehemently defended two basic principles that “it is good to write clearly, and anyone can.” (\"Style: Lessons in Clarity and Grace\" (9th Edition) 4). To meet these ends Williams laid out streamlined steps to help writers first make their sentences and paragraphs clear and then graceful. Writers can make sentences clearer by identifying an actor in the sentence subject and then expressing actions in specific verbs. Sentences are easier to understand when the beginning connects to prior sentences and the end presents new information. Graceful sentences and paragraphs are concise, shapely (uninterrupted and coordinated), and elegant (balanced in syntax, meaning, sound and rhythm). Paragraphs are cohesive when sentences have a sense of flow, and coherent when paragraphs are felt as the whole. In later editions, he discussed ethics of writing understood as a social act between writer and reader and offered steps to produce coherent documents.\n\nNoting the kinship between \"Style\" and The Elements of Style by William Strunk and E.B. White, Berkeley professor J. Bradford DeLong praised Williams for practicality of his advice.\n\nThe Craft of Research, a collaborative textbook written by Williams and his two long-term academic colleagues and friends – Wayne C. Booth and Gregory G. Colomb, – was designed to help students plan, carry out and report on research in any field and at any level – from a term paper to a dissertation, an article, and a book. Authors understood writing a research report as “thinking in writing” and “thinking from the point of view of [the] readers” (\"The Craft of Research\" 15). Their treatment of research arguments included a refinement of Stephen Toulmin’s formal layout of arguments. In another book, \"The Craft of Argument\", Williams and Colomb looked at written arguments in general. The authors claimed that in argument “questions and answers not only seek truth, but also generate the means of persuasion that rhetoric seeks” (\"The Craft of Argument\" xix).\nTogether with Gregory G. Colomb, Francis X. Kinahan, and Lawrence D. McEnerney, Williams developed innovative instructional materials for advanced writers in the academy and the professions known as \"The Little Red Schoolhouse\".\n\nFrom 1980, Williams (together with Colomb and others) ran Clearlines, a consulting firm helping writers in corporations, law firms, and consulting groups to write clearly and concisely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14223899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14223899", "title": "Josh Pais", "text": "Josh Pais\n\nJosh Pais (born June 21, 1964) is an American acting coach and film and television actor.\n\nPais was born in New York City, New York, and is the son of Lila Lee (née Atwill), a painter and poet, and Dutch-born physicist, professor, and writer Abraham Pais. His father was from a Jewish family, and his mother converted to Judaism.\n\nHe has appeared in Hollywood films including \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" (in which he was both in the costume and was the voice) as Raphael, \"Music of the Heart\", \"Scream 3\", \"It Runs in the Family\", \"Phone Booth\", \"Little Manhattan\" and \"Find Me Guilty\". He played Assistant M.E. Borak in 15 episodes of the series \"Law & Order\", between 1990 and 2002. He also played the Spanish teacher in the film \"Assassination of a High School President\". He had a recurring role as an obnoxious movie producer on the American crime drama series \"Ray Donovan\". He also appeared as a lawyer on \"2 Broke Girls\".\n\nPais married actress Lisa Emery on August 27, 1990; actor Zane Pais is their son. They divorced in 2003. Pais is married to Marie Forleo.\n\n"}
{"id": "48862264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48862264", "title": "Kate Frank", "text": "Kate Frank\n\nKate Frank (February 5, 1890 – April 1982) was a Missouri-born, Oklahoma teacher who taught for nearly 50 years. She was instrumental in the founding of the Oklahoma Education Association, served as its first president, and later, donated the initial monies for the trust that became a legal defense fund for educators. She served as vice president of the National Education Association in the 1940s and was the first national Retired Teacher of the Year recipient. Honored by many awards, she was inducted into the Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame in 1983.\n\nKate Frank was born on February 5, 1890, on a farm in Missouri. By the age of 18, she was teaching eight grades in a one-room school house for a Missouri mining town, but moved to Oklahoma around the end of World War I. Frank was hired as one of the inaugural teachers for West Junior High School, which opened in 1920 in Muskogee, and taught there through 1923. She received a bachelor's degree from Southwest Teachers College in Springfield, Missouri in 1924, and later earned a master's degree from the University of Missouri. After several years at West, Frank moved to Muskogee's Central High School, where she taught business education.\n\nIn the 1930s, Frank served as president of the Muskogee Classroom Teachers Department, later the Muskogee Classroom Teacher's Association. In 1934, she became one of the founders of the state classroom teacher's association and by 1936, she was serving as the president of the Oklahoma Education Association (OEA), as the first person and woman elected to head the organization. As president, Frank began a series of studies to evaluate classroom organization, teacher pay, school revenues, and tenure, though the proposals for change were not approved by the state legislature. Frank was elected to serve as vice president of the National Education Association (NEA) in 1942, and though re-elected to the post in 1943, she was fired by the Muskogee School Board. Although Frank was never given a specific reason for the termination, it was widely reported that it was for failure to back a specific candidate in a school board election and for her previous agitation for teacher pay guarantees. She took the case to court and was backed by the NEA, which raised funds to pay her salary while suspended. She was reinstated in 1945 and returned the unused money collected in her behalf to the NEA. The monies were used to establish a fund now called the Kate Frank/DuShane Legal Services Program, as a defense fund for teachers needing help in legal matters concerning their employment. Even after her reinstatement, Frank continued to fight for improved benefits for teachers, including health insurance and paid sick leave.\n\nIn 1950, she was selected by Yale and Michigan State Universities for a study tour in Europe to evaluate European educational systems.\nFrank retired from teaching in 1956, having taught for 47 years, but continued her advocacy, arguing for senior citizens' rights. In 1961, she was appointed by Governor J. Howard Edmondson to serve on the state Teacher’s Retirement System Board of Trustees, on which she continued to serve for ten years. That same year, she attended the White House Conference on Aging and began promoting a teacher's retirement home while in Washington, D.C. The following year, Frank obtained a loan from the Federal Housing Administration to build the first high-rise apartment building in Muskogee, Oklahoma, as a residence for retired teachers. The apartments are now open to any senior citizen above age 62, who is still ambulatory and offers subsidies from the Oklahoma Department of Rehabilitation Services for rent.\n\nFrank received multiple awards and recognition at the local, state, and national levels. In Muskogee, there is a street named after her, \"Kate Frank Drive\"; \"Kate Frank Manor\", the apartment high-rise for which she lobbied bears her name; and the OEA annual award for service excellence is named in her honor. In 1972 Frank was the first honoree to receive the National Retired Teacher of the Year Award, which she accepted from first lady Pat Nixon. In 1979 she was named as the Outstanding Older Oklahoman by Governor George Nigh, for her work in helping to found the American Association of Retired Persons and in 1983, she was inducted into the Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame, posthumously.\n\nFrank died in April 1982, in Muskogee, Oklahoma.\n"}
{"id": "3040661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3040661", "title": "Kathmandu College of Management", "text": "Kathmandu College of Management\n\nKathmandu College of Management, popularly known as KCM, is a college of higher education located in Gwarko, Lalitpur, Nepal. KCM is the first management college to introduce BBA program in Nepal. It is affiliated to Siam University as well as Kathmandu University and is considered one of the premier management schools in Nepal. KCM provides bachelor's degrees in Business administration (BBA) specializing in Marketing or Insurance and Finance. The college also provides professional training in MCSE and CCNA.\n\n\nKCM is also the only authorized test center for GMAT in Nepal. \n"}
{"id": "34995786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34995786", "title": "Lesson of the Evil", "text": "Lesson of the Evil\n\n, known in English as Lesson of the Evil, is a 2012 Japanese slasher film directed by Takashi Miike starring Hideaki Itō. It is an adaptation of Yusuke Kishi's 2010 novel of the same name. The film contains many references to German culture, such as to Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther and in the film a vinyl record with the German song about Mack the Knife written by Bertolt Brecht is played.\n\nAn English teacher named Seiji Hasumi (Hideaki Itō) is loved by his students and respected by his peers. He graduates from Harvard University with an MBA, and works at Morgenstern, a European investment bank, for two years. Hasumi returns to Japan to pursue high school teaching. However, his outward charm masks his true nature. In reality, Hasumi is a sociopath who is unable to feel empathy for other human beings. Specifically, he has a severe antisocial personality disorder. Having killed both of his parents and his former tutor at the age of fourteen, Hasumi turns into a fiendishly clever killer. During his time in the States, Hasumi meets a partner in crime, an American named Dave, who thinks he shares the same \"hobby\" as Hasumi – killing people for fun. The two can be seen carrying buckets full of human blood, bones, and organs somewhere, giving off the notion that they committed numerous murders while working together. Hasumi eventually kills his partner by knocking him out and burning him alive inside a barrel, stating that while Dave enjoys killing for fun, Hasumi does not.\n\nBack in Japan, Hasumi chooses to deal with problems like bullying and student sexual harassment, starting by dealing with the school cheating issue. Upon collecting all of the students' cell phones prior to their exams, Hasumi secretly uses a cell phone jammer to completely prevent any cheating during the test. The group of students that had cheated on previous exams became suspicious after none of the group's cell phones have service during the test and immediately suspect the adviser of the Radio Club, Tsurii – a loner physics teacher. They are then confronted by Tsurii himself who clarifies that he was not responsible for the jamming. A man who regularly meets with the school to complain about students bullying his daughter, Rina, is murdered. Someone has replaced the bottles of water he kept around his house to scare off cats with kerosene, as the man is a chainsmoker the bottles soon catch fire and explode. Tsurii soon meets with the intelligent ringleader of the cheating group, Keisuke, revealing his suspicions of Hasumi. Tsurii explains he has dug into Hasumi's past and found strange details, such as at another school where Hasumi started his teaching career that later had four student suicides. During this time, however, Hasumi had bugged the room and learned of Tsurii's suspicion, and confronts him on a train, murdering him and making his death appear as a hanging suicide. Hasumi then confronts Keisuke after the announcement of Tsurii's suicide causes him to panic. Hasumi knocks Keisuke out and ties him up until the end of school, after which Hasumi tortures him into admitting that he and his friends were indeed cheating. Hasumi checks that Keisuke didn't tell others of Tsurii's suspicions, before killing him and hiding his body.\n\nDuring the same time period, Hasumi is brought to the attention of a blackmail case from one of his students. A store owner, Meka, caught a female student, Miya, shoplifting but swears not to charge her for it. However, PE teacher Shibahara blackmails Miya, as he has recorded her admission of shoplifting, into giving him sexual favors or risk being charged. Hasumi, assures Miya that a blackmail and statutory rape case is more serious than shoplifting and affirms to her that she is safe from the law and no longer needs to succumb to the blackmail. Miya later meets Hasumi on the school roof, she thanks him with a hug that advances into a kiss and the two become lovers. In the meantime, Hasumi finds out about art teacher Kume's sexual relationship with a male student; he blackmails Kume into lending him his luxury apartment. Hasumi later takes Miya to the apartment and the two have sex. Hasumi presses Miya into giving him access to an online private discussion board that his students use, anonymously making claims about the murder of Rina's father, accusing delinquent student Tadenuma, who had targeted Rina online previously. After a fight breaks out at the school, Hasumi invites Tadenuma out for a drink and murders him; the students later assume that Tadenuma ran away from home.\n\nEvents have passed until Hasumi's homeroom students are staying overnight in the school, preparing an elaborate haunted house for the school cultural festival. Hasumi lures Miya to the rooftop, knocking her out and throwing her off the roof to fake her suicide; as she had grown suspicious of Tadenuma's disappearance. When another student comes to the roof looking for Miya, she finds the suicide note forged by Hasumi; he quickly kills her too. As Hasumi has no method of masking his murder of the second student, he quickly comes up with a plan. Hasumi decides to start a school massacre of his students for which he will frame Kume, who frequents a shooting range, by wearing his shoes throughout the killings. Throughout the massacre, Hasumi's shotgun can be seen possessed by ex-partner in crime Dave, talking to him. As the students hear the bangs of the shotgun, Hasumi tricks most of the students by using the intercom to warn them of \"an intruder with a shotgun\" and orders the students to proceed to the roof - which he had locked access to beforehand - and wait until help arrives. With some of the students proceeding to the stairs to the roof, another group hide inside the art room, closing it off with fire shutters and barricading the entry points. One of the students, skilled archer Kakeru, manages to escape the school far enough with his archery gear to find a man who is able to call the police. He later runs back to the school to rescue his crush Satomi, who is found trying to escape by roping out of a window of the art room and slips, breaking her ankles. Kakeru screams out her name, alerting Hasumi to their presence, who then proceeds to aim out of a window at the two students. The Kakeru readies an arrow and fires at Hasumi, but Hasumi fires as well, deflecting the arrow off-course, slaying Kakeru, and then Satomi. With the group of students still in the art room thinking they are safe, they are unaware that they did not untie the rope that Satomi had used to rappel down out of. Hasumi climbs the rope and proceeds to slay the group.\n\nThe massacre nears its end with two students who survive by dressing up two of their dead peers in their clothing and hiding inside the school as they toss the corpses down an emergency escape chute, tricking Hasumi into thinking the bodies are the last two students on his checklist attempting to escape. After the massacre at the school, Hasumi attempts to cover up his actions by making it seem like he had been handcuffed and knocked out by Kume and making it look like he committed suicide afterwards with Hasumi's shotgun, but his plans are foiled due to one of the two surviving students pointing out to the police that the school's training defibrillator records audio and contains evidence of one of the murdered students speaking his murderer's name prior to being slain by Hasumi. However, Hasumi plans to use his recently learned knowledge of Norse mythology as his legal defence by suggesting his acts to be \"the will of God.\" The surviving student who pointed out the defibrillator exclaims that Hasumi is crazy, but the other surviving student says Hasumi is \"starting the next game.\" It is then revealed that Miya survived after Hasumi tossed her off the school's roof and calls out Hasumi's name, ending the movie with \"to be continued.\"\n\n\nThe film premiered at the Rome Film Festival on November 9, 2012. It was selected to screen at the Stanley Film Festival in April 2014.\n\nJay Weissberg of \"Variety\" gave the movie a negative review, calling it \"nothing more than a slick slasher pic\" and pointing out its debatable taste: \"Even were the memory of the Breivik massacre, among others, not so fresh, there's something deeply unseemly about turning a high-school bloodbath into an adrenaline-pumping pleasure ride.\"\n\nJessica Kiang pans the movie, calling it \"overlong and incoherent\" and \"sadly more bore than gore\". She doesn't see any deeper meaning in this either: \"It's just too silly to lay a claim to any philosophy, even nihilism.\"\n\nJonathan Barkan of the horror website Bloody Disgusting calls the movie \"thoroughly entertaining and exciting\", but criticizes that it overstays its welcome and would \"benefit from a slightly tighter final cut.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24059964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24059964", "title": "Lifetime Learning Credit", "text": "Lifetime Learning Credit\n\nThe Lifetime Learning Credit, provided by , is available to taxpayers in the United States who have incurred education expenses. For this credit to be claimed by a taxpayer, the student must attend school on at least a part-time basis. The credit can be claimed for education expenses incurred by the taxpayer, the taxpayer's spouse, or the taxpayer's dependent.\n\nThis credit allows for a 20% non-refundable tax credit for first $10,000 of qualified tuition and expenses to be fully creditable against the taxpayer's total tax liability. The maximum amount of the credit is $2000 per household. The credit is available for net tuition and fees (less grant aid) paid for post-secondary enrollment. The credit is available on a per-taxpayer (family) basis, and is phased out at the same income levels as the Hope Scholarship Credit.\n\nCritics have complained that complexity and restrictions on eligibility make the actual benefits per post-secondary student much lower than the theoretical maximum, and that even with tax credits, higher education remains tax-disadvantaged compared to other investments.\n\n\"Qualified tuition and related expenses\" is defined as \"the tuition and fees paid at most colleges and universities for the enrollment or attendance of the taxpayer, the taxpayer's spouse, or any dependent of the taxpayer. These qualifying expenses do not include student activity fees, athletic fees, insurance costs, or room and board expenses.\n\nThe Lifetime Learning Credit is subject to some limitations. A taxpayer may not take both a Hope credit and a Lifetime Learning Credit for the same student in the same year. The credit is subject to a limitation designed to reserve the benefit to low to moderate income taxpayers. The credit amount for 2015 is phased out gradually once a taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income exceeds $55,000, and the credit is phased out entirely once a taxpayer's MAGI exceeds $65,000. These numbers are increased for taxpayers who file jointly to $110,000 and $130,000 respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "48057255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48057255", "title": "List of archives in Ecuador", "text": "List of archives in Ecuador\n\nThis is list of archives in Ecuador.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53393522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53393522", "title": "List of scholarly publishing stings", "text": "List of scholarly publishing stings\n\nThis is a list of scholarly publishing \"sting operations\" such as the Sokal affair. These are nonsense papers that were accepted by an academic journal or academic conference; the list does not include cases of scientific misconduct. The intent of such publications is typically to expose shortcomings in a journal's peer review process or to criticize the standards of pay-to-publish journals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51580501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51580501", "title": "Logic games", "text": "Logic games\n\nLogic games, abbreviated LG, and officially referred to as analytical reasoning, is one of the sections which appear on the Law School Admission Test (LSAT). A logic games section contains four 5-8 question \"games,\" totaling 22-25 questions. Each game begins by setting a scenario and providing a set of rules, followed by questions that test the test-taker's ability to understand and apply the rules, as well as make inferences based on them. In the words of the Law School Admission Council (LSAC), which administer the test, it \"measure[s] the ability to understand a structure of relationships and to draw logical conclusions about that structure.\" Like all other sections on the LSAT, the time allowed for this section is 35 minutes. While most students find this section to be the most difficult section on the LSAT, it is widely considered the easiest and the fastest to improve at once the right strategies are learned and implemented.\n\nIn a basic linear game, two sets of variables are provided. The first set of variables, sometimes referred to as the 'base variables,' is usually days of the week, an order of arrival, or some other order. The second variable set is then matched to the first set according to a set of rule. For example:\n\nAfter setting the scenario, the game challenges the test-taker with questions such as:\n\nAdvanced linear games are similar to basic linear games, but three or more sets of variables are presented. For example: \n\nThe game can then provide rules and pose questions relating to the order of arrival of a runner, the color of a specific runner's shirt, sequences of color that must or must not be present, the shirt color of the runner that comes first etc.\n\nGrouping games provide variables that must be assigned to groups, but not in a specific order or sequence. For example: \n\nCombination games follow a similar structure but include both linear and grouping elements.\n\nIn addition to the common games, the LSAT sometimes includes other types of games that appear less frequently. Examples of less common games are:\n\nTo solve the game quickly and efficiently, test-takers usually draw a master diagram at the bottom of the page. The rules and key inferences are written down in short symbols next to the diagram, and, where possible, marked on the diagram itself. A smaller diagram can also be drawn next to a specific question if that question poses any additional rules. On some games, it is helpful to create separate diagrams of all the possibilities and then use that to tackle the questions.\n\n"}
{"id": "5893081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893081", "title": "Minibeast", "text": "Minibeast\n\n\"Minibeast\" or \"Minibeasts\" is a term for a variety of arthropods and other invertebrates, including spiders, ants, butterflies, bees, wasps, flies, woodlice, and many others. The United Kingdom-based Young People's Charitable Trust defines them as \"small animals\" in a factsheet written for young readers. There is a \"Minibeast Zooseum\" in Michigan dedicated to invertebrates. Minibeasts, as indicated by their name, are generally 'mini' or small.\n\nThe study of minibeasts is common as part of the primary school curriculum. Studying minibeasts is a very effective way to observe many biological concepts first hand, which is not possible with many larger animals. Life cycles, food chains, and bodily structure and function are just some of the basic elements of biological science which can be easily explained using minibeasts. \"Bugs Alive!\" at Melbourne Museum features a huge number of live minibeasts with detailed information about them, while services such as \"Minibeast Wildlife\" and \"Travelbugs\" take live minibeast to school and provide educational resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "19812993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19812993", "title": "Mobile-assisted language learning", "text": "Mobile-assisted language learning\n\nMobile-assisted language learning (MALL) is language learning that is assisted or enhanced through the use of a handheld mobile device.\n\nMALL is a subset of both Mobile Learning (m-learning) and computer-assisted language learning (CALL). MALL has evolved to support students’ language learning with the increased use of mobile technologies such as mobile phones (cellphones), MP3 and MP4 players, PDAs and devices such as the iPhone or iPad. With MALL, students are able to access language learning materials and to communicate with their teachers and peers at any time, anywhere.\n\n1980s\n\n\n1990s\n\n\n2000s\n\n\nEnhancing language learning through MALL provides dynamics which are not available through the traditional classroom. MALL offers ubiquitous access to learning anytime, anywhere the user has reception. This enables users to brush up on language skills just before or just after a conversation in the language they are learning. Handheld delivery also affords new dynamics for collaborative learning as users can share the language learning process in small synchronous groups.\n\nKloper et al. (2002) claimed 5 properties of mobile devices which can produce unique educational affordances:\n\nThe most notable constraints for earlier MALL include poor sound and display quality coupled with very limited devices and download speeds. Newer integrated PDA devices have narrowed the gap with higher access speeds, larger screens, having functions and capacities similar to laptop computers (Nah, et al. 2008).\n\nResources that focusing on Mobile Assisted Language Learning are not common (check Augmented Reality Language Learning). We more often find resources that are primarily language learning websites with some space dedicated to technology in language learning and vice versa.\n\n"}
{"id": "7522354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7522354", "title": "Njala University", "text": "Njala University\n\nNjala University (NU) is a public university located in Njala, Moyamba District, Sierra Leone. It is the second largest university in Sierra Leone (after the Fourah Bay College) and is also part of the University of Sierra Leone. The largest and main campus of Njala University is in Njala, Moyamba District; the other campus is Bo, the second largest city in sierra leone.\n\nNU was originally created as part of the University of Sierra Leone (USL) in 1964 with the help of USAID and offered degrees in conjunction with the University of Illinois. Subsequent legislation in 1972 paired Fourah Bay and Njala under the University of Sierra Leone act, where the presidents of each institution switched the presidency of the USL on a biennial basis. This continued until 2005, when the University act separated Fourah Bay and NU into distinct institutions independently run.\n\nIn the 1999-2000 academic year, NU had 722 male students and 98 female, which equated to approximately 27% of Sierra Leonean college students. It had 436 male staff and 98 females.\n\nThe university commenced in August 2005 with the founding of 6 schools:\n\nBo campus has 3 schools, Education, Community Health Services and Social Sciences.\n\nNjala campus has the other 3 schools, including Agriculture, Environmental Sciences and Technology as well as the University secretariat. However, as of the 2005-2006 year, New England Ville in Freetown was temporarily home to all of Njala's facilities, pending the rebuilding of Njala's campus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15096337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15096337", "title": "OpenCity", "text": "OpenCity\n\nOpenCity is a free and open-source software 3D city-building game started in 2003 by France-based Vietnamese programmer Duong-Khang Nguyen. The game mechanics are similar to Simcity, while the game developers don't strive to make it a direct Simcity clone.\n\nIn the game, the player builds a city by marking land as commercial, industrial or residential zones. Those zones depend on each other to grow. The player is also required to supply the city with power and connect the different zones by building roads.\n\nOpenCity is the product of programmer Duong-Khang Nguyen and 3D artist Frédéric Rodrigo. Nguyen was inspired by the open source game \"FreeReign\"; when he realized that the \"FreeReign\" project was abandoned and the source code was not in the condition to be improved, he began development on his own city-building simulator. The work in project started in 2003 with the registration on Sourceforge. OpenCity is Free and open-source software due to the licensing as GPLv2. Contributions to the game came from the game's community in form of translation and quality testing. OpenCity is built on cross platform libraries and APIs like Simple DirectMedia Library and OpenGL, which allows porting to various OSes and platforms, like Windows, OS X and many Linux distributions.\n\nLatest stable release branch is 0.0.62 with updates from 2011, while the unstable development branch 0.0.7 has updates until 2015.\n\nOpenCity achieved a broad spread as free and open-source and freeware video game, and was downloaded directly from Sourceforge between 2003 and May 2017 over 190,000 times according to the SF download statistic. OpenCity was also directly integrated in many Linux distributions: Fedora, Debian, Arch Linux, SuSE, Slackware, Ubuntu, Pardus, Frugalware. \"OpenCity\" has been reviewed as \"well made 3D remake\" of SimCity by Chip.de in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "41703125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41703125", "title": "Ordinance of Student Rights", "text": "Ordinance of Student Rights\n\nStudent Human Rights Ordinance () is an ordinance in operation in some cities and provinces in South Korea. It first began in Gyeonggi (2010) and expanded to Gwangju (2011), Seoul (2012), and the Jeollabuk-do Province (2013) (North Jeolla Province). The primary objective of this ordinance is to guarantee human rights of student and youth in South Korea.\n\nThe four ordinances are very similar, however some cities neglected certain rights and actions. The Gyeonggi-do Student Human Rights Ordinance and Seoul Ordinance of Student Rights are the only two to include the right to not be discriminated against due to pregnancy. Rights surrounding gender and sexuality differs in each location. The Seoul ordinance as well as Gyeonggi-do ordinance include sexual orientation and gender identity. Gwangju ordinance only includes sexual orientation and Jeollabuk-do only includes gender equality. Seoul, Jeollabuk-do and Gyeonggi-do each dedicate a day to celebrate Student Human Rights Day in efforts to expand interest and participation in the human rights of the student. Gwangju has not created a day devoted to student human rights. Seoul’s ordinance mandates that basic human rights must always be upheld even if they are not listed in the ordinance.\n\nThe ordinances state that each city and province has to stay updated on a plan to ensure human rights. In Gwangju there is a survey conducted every two years to keep the human rights plan up to date. In Gyeonggi-do, the Superintendent of Public Instruction conducts an annual survey on student human rights. In Seoul, the Superintendent conducts an annual survey on the actual conditions of student human rights and reflect the results in the drafting of the comprehensive human rights plan for students. In Jeollabuk-do, the Chancellor conducts a survey on the condition of student human rights every year to reflect them in the education of human rights of students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1640986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640986", "title": "Public university", "text": "Public university\n\nA public university is a university that is publicly owned or receives significant public funds through a national or subnational government, as opposed to a private university. Whether a national university is considered public varies from one country (or region) to another, largely depending on the specific education landscape. \n\nIn Egypt, Al-Azhar University opened in 975 AD as the second oldest university in the world. It was followed by a lot of universities opened as public universities in the 20th century such as Cairo University (1908), Alexandria University (1912), Assiut University (1928), Ain Shams University (1957), Helwan University (1959), Beni-Suef University (1963), Benha University (1965), Zagazig University (1978), Suez Canal University (1989), where tuition fees are totally subsidized by the government.\n\nIn Tunisia, the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research controls all of the public universities. For some universities, the ministry of higher education coordinates with other ministries like: the Ministry of Public health or the Ministry of Information and Communication Technologies. Admission in a public university in Tunisia is assured after successfully succeeding in the Tunisian Baccalaureate: Students are classified according to a Formula score based on their results in the Baccalaureate. Then, the students make a wishlist with the universities they want to attend on a state website dedicated for orientation. Thus, the high-ranking-students get priority to choose.\n\nexamples of Tunisian public universities:\n\n\nIn Nigeria public universities can be established by both the federal government and by state governments. Examples include the\nUniversity of Lagos,\nObafemi Awolowo University,\nUniversity of Ibadan,\nUniversity of Benin,\nUniversity of Nigeria,\nAhmadu Bello University,\nAbia State University,\nAbubakar Tafawa Balewa University,\nGombe State University,\nNnamdi Azikiwe University,\nFederal University of Technology Yola,\nUniversity of Maiduguri,\nUsmanu Danfodiyo University,\nUniversity of Jos,\nLadoke Akintola University of Technology,\nUniversity of Ilorin, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Igbariam\n\nIn Kenya, the Ministry of Education controls all of the public universities. Students are enrolled after completing the 8-4-4 system of education and attaining a mark of C+ or above. Students who meet the criteria determined annually by the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS) receive government sponsorship, as part of their university or college fee is catered for by the government. They are also eligible for a low interest loan from the Higher Education Loan Board. They are expected to pay back the loan after completing higher education.\n\nSouth Africa has 23 public tertiary educational institutions, either categorised as a traditional university or a comprehensive university (providing theoretical and vocational training). Prominent public South African universities include the University of Johannesburg, University of Cape Town, North-west University, University of KwaZulu-Natal, University of Pretoria, University of Stellenbosch, University of Witwatersrand, Rhodes University and the University of South Africa.\n\nAlmost all universities in Brunei are public universities. These are major universities in Brunei:\n\n\nThere are 40 public universities in Bangladesh. The universities do not deal directly with the government, but with the University Grants Commission, which in turn deals with the government.\n\nRecently many private universities are established under the Private University Act of 1992.\n\nIn mainland China, nearly all universities and research institutions are public and currently, all important and significant centers for higher education in the country are publicly administered.\n\nThe public universities are usually run by the provincial governments; there are also circumstances where the municipal governments administer the universities. Some public universities are national, which are directly administered by the central government.\n\nPrivate undergraduate colleges do exist, which are mostly vocational colleges sponsored by private enterprises. The majority of such universities are not entitled to award bachelor's degrees. Public universities usually enjoy higher reputation domestically.\n\nEight institutions are funded by the University Grants Committee. The Academy for Performing Arts also receives funding from the government. The Open University of Hong Kong is also a public university, but it is largely self-financed. The Shue Yan University is the only private institution with the status of a university, but it also receives some financial support from the government since it was granted university status.\n\nThere are public and private educational institutes in Indonesia. The government (Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education) provide public universities, institutes, high schools and academies in each province. The private educational institution usually provided by religious organizations, public organizations, and some big companies.\n\nIn India, most universities and nearly all research institutions are public. There are some private undergraduate colleges, mostly engineering schools, but a majority of these are affiliated to public universities. Some of these private schools are also partially aided by the national or state governments. India also has an \"open\" public university, the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), which mostly offers distance education, and in terms of the number of enrolled students is now the largest university in the world with over 4 million students.\n\nSome of Iran's prestigious universities are public. State-run universities are highly selective. Iran's best known private university is Islamic Azad University with campuses all around the country.\n\nThere are nine official universities in Israel. In addition, there are a few dozen colleges and other institutes of higher learning, as well as about a dozen foreign university extensions. All are academically supervised by the Council for Higher Education in Israel (CHEI). The main difference between a university and a college in Israel is that only a university can issue doctorate degrees. Theoretically, a college can apply to the CHEI to upgrade its status to university.\n\nIn Japan, public universities refer to schools that are not national universities but are run by local governments, either prefectural or municipal. According to the Ministry of Education, public universities have \"provided an opportunity for higher education in a region and served the central role of intellectual and cultural base for the local community in the region\", and are \"expected to contribute to social, economical and cultural development in the region\"; this contrasts to research-oriented aspects of national universities.\n\nAs of 2010, there were 95 public universities, compared to 86 national universities and 597 private universities, and 127,872 students attended the schools. The number of the public universities has increased sharply in recent years; in 1980 there were only 34 public universities and in 1993 there were 46. Since July 2003 when the Local Independent Administrative Institutions Law was put into effect, public universities have been allowed to be incorporated. The average tuition in public universities for 2007 fiscal year was 536,238 yen, the average entrance fee 399,351 yen and the average application fee 17,095 yen.\n\nManas University, the public university in Kyrgyzstan, is the public higher education institution which offers associate degrees, undergraduate degrees, and graduate and post graduate degrees.\n\nUniversity of Macau is the only public university in Macau. Also, the Macau Polytechnic Institute and Institute for Tourism Studies are the public educational institute which can offer undergraduate education.\n\nThere are 20 public universities in Malaysia, which are funded by the government but governed as self-managed institutions.\n\nTribhuvan University is the first public university of Nepal. The university is highly reputed both in Nepal as well as abroad, and runs various programs in a wide number of academic disciplines. It operates through six different schools, and also provides affiliation to various colleges across the country. Kathmandu University is also the public university of Nepal founded by government act in 1991. Due to high fee and single person's administration, many people think that this university is a private university, but it is not (see kathmandu University type). The university offers new and demanding subjects especially in the field of science and technology through different schools. There is another government funded Pokhara University. It was established in 1997 under Pokhara University Act. Pokhara University, non-profit autonomous institution, is financed by the Government of Nepal. Pokhara University has given affiliation to around 58 colleges for Bachelor, Master and M. Phil degree programs. Pokhara University has gained popularity in recent years. It has relation already established with 42 national and international Universities.\n\nIn Pakistan, universities receive guidance and recognition by the Higher Education Commission (Pakistan) (HEC) (formerly the University Grants Commission (Pakistan)). There are around 107 public and 76 private universities in Pakistan. University of the Punjab is the biggest public university followed by University of Karachi.\n\nUniversities and colleges in the Philippines are controlled and managed by the Commission on Higher Education, especially the University of the Philippines. There are more than 500 government-run higher education institutions, of which 436 are state colleges and universities, including satellite campuses, 31 local colleges and universities, and a handful of community colleges. In 2008, through Republic Act 9500, the University of the Philippines was bestowed as the National University to distinguish it from all other state universities and colleges.\n\nAside from the University of the Philippines, there are other notable state colleges and universities within the archipelago. These include the Polytechnic University of the Philippines, Technological University of the Philippines, Philippine Normal University, and Mindanao State University.\n\nIn 2008, state colleges and universities have a PHP 26.2-billion budget, out of which PHP 19.4 billion will be funded by direct subsidies.\n\n\nIn Sri Lanka only fifteen universities are public universities, with most funded by government via the University Grants Commission which handles undergraduate placements and staff appointments. Therefore, these are not independent institutions.\n\nIn recent years large numbers of private institutions have opened islandwide, and even small tuition classes offer degree courses and claim to be 'universities'. No state body to regulate the fees and standard of education.\n\n\nTaiwan has more than 150 universities (two-thirds were established after the 1980s), while only a third of them are public universities. Tuition fees at public universities are less than half those of private universities because the Taiwan government puts more funding to the public universities. Additionally, there are ten public universities (established before the 1980s) which are more accredited and more prestigious in Taiwan and the majority of top-ranking schools are public. Therefore, most students choose public universities for their tertiary education.\n\nCurrently, Thailand has 24 public universities.\n\nIn the late 19th century, there was a high demand for professional talents in the central government of Thailand. \"Siam\" was an aftermath of King Rama V's bureaucratic reforms, which aimed to transform the feudal Thai society into a modernized state. In 1899, the King founded the School for Training of Civil Officials (Thai: โรงเรียนสำหรับฝึกหัดวิชาข้าราชการฝ่ายพลเรือน) near the northern gate of the Royal Palace. Those who graduated from the School would become royal \"pages\". Being royal pages, he must learn how to administrate organization by working closely with the King, which is a traditional way of entrance to the Siamese bureaucracy. After being royal pages, he would then served in the Mahattai Ministry or other government ministries.\n\n\nIn Ireland, nearly all universities, institutes of technology, colleges of education and some other third-level institutions are public, and the state pays the cost of educating its undergraduates. There are a few private institutions of higher learning, for example the National College of Ireland but none of them have university status and they are highly specialised.\n\nIn Russia, about 7.5 million students study in thousands of universities.\n\nFor academic year 2016, there are 183 universities and academies total in Turkey: 118 of them are State Universities (five of which are technical universities, two of which are institutes of technology, and one of which is fine arts university). Turkey's higher learning institutions, governed by Ministry of Higher Education or YOK Ministry, are accepting more and more international students. Of the current 65 private foundation universities(seven of which are two-year granting institutions). In addition, there is a category called \"special\" including four military academies and one police academy.\n\nIn the UK, an institution can only use the title \"university\" or \"university college\" if it has been granted by the Privy Council, under the terms of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992. Prior to 1992, these titles were conferred by Royal Charter, Act of Parliament, or (for the ancient universities) customary usage.\n\nMost British universities are partly publicly funded and regulated: the government regulates their tuition fees, student funding and student loans and commissions and regulates research assessments and teaching reviews. Unlike in Continental European countries, the British government does not own universities' assets, and university staff are not civil servants: government regulation arises as a condition of accepting funding from bodies such as HEFCE and any university can in principle choose to leave the HEFCE regulated system at any time. Since September 2012 government funding for teaching and background funding for research has been substantially reduced, with one study indicating that annual government funding for teaching and research will make up just 15% of universities' income by 2015. As of 2014, funding council grants make up 15-19% of the income of universities as disparate as UCL (large research university, income £1 billion), Durham (small research university, income £300 million) and Hertfordshire (teaching focused university, income £240 million). However currently there are only five fully fledged private universities in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn Scotland, the first degree studied is free and paid for by the Scottish government. There is also a change of direction funding in which a student can change course or degree after a year without imposing financial penalties or having to pay extra.\n\nIn Australia, there are 38 public universities and 3 private universities. The private universities are Bond University, the University of Notre Dame Australia, and Torrens University Australia. There are also two foreign universities, Carnegie Mellon University (USA) and Cranfield University (UK), which have campuses in Adelaide.\n\nSome part of Australia's public universities are variously grouped as below:\n\nIn New Zealand, all eight universities are public. Public funding is supported by research grants. The oldest (University of Otago) was established in 1869 by Provincial Ordinance. From 1870 to 1961, there was effectively a single university structure - the University of New Zealand - with constituent colleges located in Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin. In 1961, the constituent colleges were dissolved into four independent universities by the New Zealand Parliament to become the University of Auckland, Victoria University of Wellington, University of Canterbury and University of Otago. This change also established a new university in Hamilton, the University of Waikato. Two associated agricultural colleges - Massey and Lincoln - subsequently become universities in 1963 and 1990 respectively. An eighth university (Auckland University of Technology) was formed in 2000 by an Order in Council under the Education Act 1989.\n\nIn Canada, education is a constitutional responsibility of the individual provinces. Many early universities were privately endowed (e.g. McGill) or founded by church denominations (e.g. Laval, Saint Mary's, Queen's, Dalhousie, Mount Allison, McMaster, Ottawa) but in the 20th century became publicly funded and secular. Provincial governments established the University of Toronto on the Oxbridge model and elsewhere (Alberta, Manitoba etc.) in the pattern of American state universities. All major Canadian universities are now publicly funded but maintain institutional autonomy, with the ability to decide on admission, tuition and governance.\n\nThe U15 is an organization of the country's fifteen leading research-intensive universities. Additionally, McGill University and the University of Toronto are members of the Association of American Universities, along with sixty public and private institutions in the United States. Private universities in Canada are relatively new and mostly exist at the undergraduate level.\n\nIn Mexico, the UNAM (Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México), sometimes simply known as the \"National University of Mexico\", was founded in 1910. It is the largest university in the country and one of the largest in the world with over 250,000 students including its system of high schools. By percentage, it contributes the most to the country's academic research and cultural development although there are other significant public institutions such as the Instituto Politécnico Nacional, and the federal state-run universities.\n\nIn the United States, most public universities are state universities founded and operated by state government entities.\n\nStates generally charge higher tuition to out-of-state students. The higher fees are based on the theory that students from the state, or much more often their parents, have contributed to subsidizing the university by paying state taxes, while out-of-state students and their parents have not.\n\nEvery U.S. state has at least one public university to its name and the largest states have more than thirty. This is partly as a result of the 1862 Morrill Land-Grant Acts, which gave each eligible state of federal land to sell to finance public institutions offering courses of study in practical fields in addition to the liberal arts. With the help of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Higher Education Act of 1965 and the Education Amendments of 1972, public universities became even more accessible for women, minorities and lower income applicants.\n\nPublic universities generally rely on subsidies from their respective state government. \"The historical data for private and public institutions reveal that public institutions have always been more dependent on external support than have private institutions.\" Recently, state support of public universities has been declining, forcing many public universities to seek private support. The real level of state funding for public higher education has doubled from $30 billion in 1974 to nearly $60 billion in 2000. Meanwhile, the percent of state appropriations for the cost of schooling per student at public university has fallen from 78% in 1974 to 43% in 2000. The increasing use of teaching assistants in public universities is a testament to waning state support. To compensate, some professional graduate programs in law, business, and medicine rely almost solely on private funding.\n\nThe oldest public universities are the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Rutgers University, and The University of Georgia, although the overall oldest university now designated as public is The College of William & Mary, which was founded by a Crown charter in 1693 and was originally a private institution. The University of South Carolina (1801) is the longest continuously supported public university; Ohio University (1804) is the oldest public university in continuous operation.\n\nMany U.S. public universities began as teacher training institutions and eventually were expanded into comprehensive universities. Examples include UCLA, formerly the southern branch of California State Normal School; Arizona State University, originally the Tempe Normal School; the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, formerly Milwaukee Normal School; and Missouri State University, formerly Southwest Missouri State Teachers College.\n\nIt has never been determined whether the U.S. Constitution would allow the federal government to establish a federal university system; the only federally chartered public universities that currently exist are the United States Service academies, military-associated educational institutions administered by the United States Department of Defense, and Haskell Indian Nations University, which is governed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. In addition, Georgetown University was the first federally chartered private university in Washington, D.C. (1815), and was later followed by other colleges and universities in the District of Columbia, including Gallaudet University (1864), Howard University (1867), and American University (1893). \n\nHistorically, many of the prestigious universities in the United States have been private, most notably the Ivy League. However, some public universities are also highly prestigious and increasingly selective: Richard Moll designated such prestigious public universities Public Ivies. UC Berkeley, for instance, is often ranked as a top-ten university in the world and the top public university in the United States. There are a number of public liberal arts colleges, including the members of the Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges.\n\nIn Costa Rica the Universidad de Costa Rica, the Universidad Nacional, the Universidad Estatal a Distancia, Universidad Técnica Nacional and the Instituto Tecnológico de Costa Rica, all public universities, are among the most prestigious institutions, while the UN-sponsored University for Peace and the INCAE Business School (with campuses in Nicaragua and Costa Rica) are equally notable.\n\nIn Argentina the National Universities, also called \"Public or State-run Universities\", is the name used to refer to all those institutions whose creation arose from the enactment of a National Congress Act, except for those whose creation preceded that of the state itself (as is the case of the National University of Córdoba and the University of Buenos Aires). They lie as Public Law legal entities and their regular operation funding comes from the national state, pursuant to what is set out on the annual national budget act.\n\nNational universities hold the largest share of the entire Argentine university system: counting over 80% of the undergraduate population and with campuses stretched throughout to all provinces comprising the national territory, they account for over 50% of the country's scientific research while additionally providing technical assistance to both the public and private sectors.\n\nPublic universities are absolutely free (no fee is paid during the studies), as is the access to books in the universities' libraries. Buying in bookstores and studying material (such as photocopies of books which are very common) is, however, usually paid for by each student. For low-income students there is a great variety of scholarships.\n\nIn Brazil, there are a few hundred public universities funded by the Federal or State governments, and they include the most renowned universities in the country, such as the University of São Paulo, University of Campinas, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Federal University of Bahia, and the Federal Institutes. Professors are public servants, most of them tenured and selected by public contests, where international research publications is a major criterion for hiring. Teaching load is usually modest and leaves time for research. In contrast, most private institutions are for-profit enterprises which hire teachers on a per-hour basis and have little research when compared with the public ones, notable exceptions are certain private but non-profit universities, mostly affiliated with religious organizations, such as the Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie of São Paulo and the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro. Public universities are responsible for granting nearly all the graduate degrees in Brazil, such as doctoral and masters (called in Portuguese, respectively, \"doutorado\" and \"mestrado\"). These graduate programs in public universities are also the main source of Brazilian academic research.\n\nThere are no tuition or entrance fees in public universities (a right established in the Brazilian Federal Constitution), but since they have thousands of applicants every year, because there are no tuitions or fees, only the best students can pass the entrance examination. In many Universities, there are quotas for students whose secondary (high school) education was made entirely in a public funded school (generally, the quota is 50%), and there are also racial quotas, but usually restricted to students from public high school too. Some Universities, like UFMG, the largest federal university in Brazil, give extra points in their admission tests instead of quotas. In UFMG a public high school student is granted a 10% bonus over his test grade, if he previously agrees to receive this advantage. Public school students that declare themselves as blacks or \"pardos\" (mixed race) have a 15% bonus, also if they previously agree to receive race based benefits. In recent years public funded higher education has grown a lot. Since 2005 the Brazilian Government has been offering a limited number of tuition grants to enable poor students to attend private universities.\n\nIn Chile, older, so called \"traditional\" universities are more prestigious than the ones created after 1980. Even though some of those \"traditional\" universities are non-profit private entities, they belong to same superior university council called \"Consejo de Rectores\" (Council of Chancellors); the \"Consejo de Rectores\" runs its own admission system called \"Prueba de Selección Universitaria\" or \"PSU\", which is roughly similar to SAT. Even though state run universities are much cheaper than the private ones, they are not tuition free for the students. It is remarkable that Chile spends only 4% in education, compared to the 7% of GDP recommended by the UN for developed nations. And in Chile the financing of higher education, private and public, is contributed by 75% by self-effort of families. The most prestigious universities in Chile are the state run Universidad de Chile, the private with State contributions Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, the private with State contributions Universidad de Concepción and the private with state contributions Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María, these four universities admit the largest numbers of high scoring students in the PSU admission test and are responsible for the largest portion of research (with the Universidad de Chile at the top). The non-traditional universities are, the most part, for-profit universities, and, with a few exceptions, don't have the same prestige as the above \"traditional\" ones.\n\nIn Peru, the admission test required to enter national (public) universities requires higher scores. The public opinion sees this from the four century old National University of San Marcos (the oldest university of the Americas, founded in May 1551), that it has seen as the most respected public education institution in the country. Also many other public universities follow the same rigorous pattern used at San Marcos university, like National Agrarian University, the National University of Engineering and Federico Villarreal University.\n\n\nhttp://worldedulink.com/index.php/2016/08/19/tuition-free-higher-education-in-portugal/\n"}
{"id": "32601452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32601452", "title": "Registry of Open Access Repositories", "text": "Registry of Open Access Repositories\n\nThe Registry of Open Access Repositories (ROAR) is a searchable international database indexing the creation, location and growth of open access institutional repositories and their contents. ROAR was created by EPrints at University of Southampton, UK, in 2003. It began as the \"Institutional Archives Registry\" and was renamed \" Registry of Open Access Repositories\" in 2006. To date, over 3,000 institutional and cross-institutional repositories have been registered.\n\nAs of 2015, ROAR and the UK-based Directory of Open Access Repositories (OpenDOAR) \"are considered the two leading open access directories worldwide. ROAR is the larger directory and allows direct submissions to the directory. OpenDOAR controls submission of materials and is dependent on the discretion of its staff. OpenDOAR requires open access of scholarly publications; whereas ROAR allows other types of materials to be included. ROAR allows filtering by country, type of repository, and sorting by repository name.\"\n\nROAR's companion Registry of Open Access Repository Mandates and Policies (ROARMAP) is a searchable international database of policies. It charts the growth of open access mandates and policies adopted by universities, research institutions and research funders that require their researchers to provide open access to their peer-reviewed research article output by depositing it in an open access repository. \n\nIt was created by EPrints at University of Southampton in 2003. The \"Institutional Self-Archiving Policy Registry\" became the \"Registry of Open Access Repository Material Archiving Policies\" in 2006, then the \"Registry of Open Access Repositories Mandatory Archiving Policies\", and then the \"Registry of Open Access Repository Mandates and Policies\" around 2014. \n\nROARMAP mandates are classified in terms of strength and effectiveness in MELIBEA As of October 2015, open-access mandates have been adopted by more than 520 universities and more than 75 research funders worldwide. \n\n"}
{"id": "307704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307704", "title": "Robert Bly", "text": "Robert Bly\n\nRobert Bly (born December 23, 1926) is an American poet, essayist, activist and leader of the mythopoetic men's movement. His best-known book is \"\" (1990), a key text of the mythopoetic men's movement, which spent 62 weeks on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list. He won the 1968 National Book Award for Poetry for his book \"The Light Around the Body\".\n\nBly was born in Lac qui Parle County, Minnesota, to Jacob and Alice Bly, who were of Norwegian ancestry. Following graduation from high school in 1944, he enlisted in the United States Navy, serving two years. After one year at St. Olaf College in Minnesota, he transferred to Harvard University, joining the later famous group of writers who were undergraduates at that time, including Donald Hall, Will Morgan, Adrienne Rich, Kenneth Koch, Frank O'Hara, John Ashbery, Harold Brodkey, George Plimpton and John Hawkes. He graduated in 1950 and spent the next few years in New York.\n\nBeginning in 1954, Bly spent two years at the University of Iowa at the Iowa Writers Workshop, completing a master's degree in fine arts, along with W. D. Snodgrass, Donald Justice, and others. In 1956, he received a Fulbright Grant to travel to Norway and translate Norwegian poetry into English. While there, he found not only his relatives, but became acquainted with the work of a number of major poets whose work was barely known in the United States, among them Pablo Neruda, Cesar Vallejo, Antonio Machado, Gunnar Ekelof, Georg Trakl, Rumi, Hafez, Kabir, Mirabai, and Harry Martinson. Bly determined then to start a literary magazine for poetry translation in the United States. \"The Fifties,\" \"The Sixties,\" and \"The Seventies\" introduced many of these poets to the writers of his generation. He also published essays on American poets.\n\nDuring this time, Bly lived on a farm in Minnesota, with his wife and children. His first marriage was to award-winning short story novelist Carol Bly. They had four children, including Mary Bly —a best-selling novelist and Literature Professor at Fordham University as of 2011— and they divorced in 1979. Since 1980 Bly has been married to the former Ruth Counsell; by that marriage he had a stepdaughter and stepson, although the stepson died in a pedestrian–train incident.\n\nBly's early collection of poems, \"Silence in the Snowy Fields,\" was published in 1962, and its plain, imagistic style had considerable influence on American verse of the next two decades. The following year, he published \"A Wrong Turning in American Poetry\", an essay in which he argued that the vast majority of American poetry from 1917 to 1963 was lacking in soul and \"inwardness\" as a result of a focus on impersonality and an objectifying, intellectual view of the world that Bly believed was instigated by the Modernists and formed the aesthetic of most post-World War II American poetry. He criticized the influence of American-born Modernists like Eliot, Pound, Marianne Moore, and William Carlos Williams and argued that American poetry needed to model itself on the more inward-looking work of European and South American poets like Pablo Neruda, César Vallejo, Juan Ramón Jiménez, Antonio Machado, and Rainer Maria Rilke.\n\nIn 1966, Bly co-founded American Writers Against the Vietnam War and went on to lead much of the opposition to that war among writers. In 1968, he signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the war. In his speech accepting the National Book Award for \"The Light Around the Body\", he announced that he would be contributing the $1000 prize to draft resistance organizations. During the sixties he was of great help to the Bengali Hungryalist poets who faced anti-establishment trial at Kolkata, India. Bly became one of the most important of American protest poets during the Vietnam War; his 1970 poem \"The Teeth Mother Naked At Last,\" later collected in his collection Sleepers Joining Hands (1973) is a major contribution to this poetry. During the 1970s, he published eleven books of poetry, essays, and translations, celebrating the power of myth, Indian ecstatic poetry, meditation, and storytelling. During the 1980s he published \"Loving a Woman in Two Worlds\", \"The Wingéd Life: Selected Poems and Prose of Thoreau,\" \"The Man in the Black Coat Turns,\" and \"A Little Book on the Human Shadow\".\n\nIn 1975, he organized the first annual \"Great Mother Conference\". Throughout the ten-day event, poetry, music, and dance were utilized to examine human consciousness. The conference has been held annually through 2015 in Nobleboro Maine. In the beginning one of its major themes was the goddess or \"Great Mother\" as she has been known throughout human history. Much of Bly's 1973 book of poems \"Sleepers Joining Hands\" is concerned with this theme. In the context of the Vietnam War, a focus on the divine feminine was seen as urgent and necessary. Since that time, the Conference has expanded to consider a wide variety of poetic, mythological, and fairy tale traditions. In the '80s and '90s there was much discussion among the conference community about the changes contemporary men were (and are) going through; \"the New Father\" was then added to the Conference title, in recognition of this and in order to keep the Conference as inclusive as possible. Bly no longer attends, but the conference continues with new teachers each year.\n\nPerhaps his most famous work is \"\" (1990), an international bestseller which has been translated into many languages and is credited with starting the Mythopoetic men's movement in the United States. Bly frequently conducts workshops for men with James Hillman, Michael J. Meade, and others, as well as workshops for men and women with Marion Woodman. He maintains a friendly correspondence with Clarissa Pinkola Estés, author of \"Women Who Run With the Wolves\". Bly wrote \"The Maiden King: The Reunion of Masculine and Feminine\" with Marion Woodman.\n\nBly was the University of Minnesota Library's 2002 Distinguished Writer. He received the McKnight Foundation's Distinguished Artist Award in 2000, and the Maurice English Poetry Award in 2002. He has published more than 40 collections of poetry, edited many others, and published translations of poetry and prose from such languages as Swedish, Norwegian, German, Spanish, Persian and Urdu. His book \"The Night Abraham Called to the Stars\" was nominated for a Minnesota Book Award. He also edited the prestigious \"Best American Poetry 1999\" (Scribners).\n\nIn 2006 the University of Minnesota purchased Bly's archive, which contained more than 80,000 pages of handwritten manuscripts; a journal spanning nearly 50 years; notebooks of his \"morning poems\"; drafts of translations; hundreds of audio and videotapes, and correspondence with many writers such as James Wright, Donald Hall and James Dickey. The archive is housed at Elmer L. Andersen Library on the University of Minnesota campus. The university paid $775,000 from school funds and private donors.\n\nIn February 2008, Bly was named Minnesota's first poet laureate. In that year he also contributed a poem and an Afterword to \"From the Other World: Poems in Memory of James Wright\". In February 2013, he was awarded the Robert Frost Medal, a lifetime achievement recognition given by the Poetry Society of America.\n\nMuch of Bly's prose writing focuses on what he saw as the particularly troubled situation in which many males find themselves today. He understood this to be a result of, among other things, the decline of traditional fathering which left young boys unguided through the stages of life leading to maturity. He claimed that in contrast with women who are better informed by their bodies (notably by the beginning and end of their menstrual cycle), men need to be actively guided out of boyhood and into manhood by their elders. Pre-modern cultures had elaborate myths, often enacted as rites of passage, as well as \"men's societies\" where older men would teach young boys about these gender-specific issues. As modern fathers have become increasingly absent, this knowledge is no longer being passed down the generations, resulting in what he referred to as a Sibling Society. The \"Absence of the Father\" is a recurrent theme in Bly's work and many of the phenomena of depression, juvenile delinquency and lack of leadership in business and politics are linked to it.\n\nBly therefore sees today's men as half-adults, trapped between boyhood and maturity, in a state where they find it hard to become responsible in their work as well as leaders in their communities. Eventually they might become weak or absent fathers themselves which will lead this behaviour to be passed down to their children. In his book \"The Sibling Society\" (1997), Bly argues that a society formed of such men is inherently problematic as it lacks creativity and a deep sense of empathy. The image of half-adults is further reinforced by popular culture which often portrays fathers as naive, overweight and almost always emotionally co-dependent. Historically this represents a recent shift from a traditional patriarchal model and Bly believes that women rushed to fill the gap that was formed through the various youth movements during the 1960s, enhancing men's emotional capacities and helping them to connect with women's age-old pain of repression. It has however also led to the creation of \"soft males\" who lacked the outwardly directed strength to revitalize the community with assertiveness and a certain warrior strength.\n\nIn Bly's view, a potential solution lies in the rediscovery of the meanings hidden in traditional myths and fairytales as well as works of poetry. He researched and collected myths that concern male maturity, often originating from the \"Grimms' Fairy Tales\" and published them in various books, \"Iron John\" being the best known example. In contrast to the continual pursuit of higher achievements, that is constantly taught to young men today, the theme of spiritual descent (often being referred to by its Greek term \"κατάβασις\") which is to be found in many of these myths, is presented as a necessary step for coming in contact with the deeper aspects of the masculine self and achieving its full potential. This is often presented as hero, often during the middle of his quest, going underground to pass a period of solitude and sorrow in semi-bestial mode. Bly notices that a cultural space existed in most traditional societies for such a period in a man's life, in the absence of which, many men today go into a depression and alcoholism as they subconsciously try to emulate this innate ritual.\n\nBly was influenced by the Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung who developed the theory of archetypes, the discrete structures of the Psyche which emerge as images in both art and myths. The Powerful King, the Evil Witch and the Beautiful Maiden are, according to Jung, imprints of the collective unconscious and Bly wrote extensively about their meaning and relations to modern life. As an example and in accordance with Jung, he considered the Witch to be that part of the male psyche upon which the negative and destructive side of a woman is imprinted and which first developed during infancy to store the imperfections of one's own mother. As a consequence, the Witch's symbols are essentially inverted motherly symbols, where the loving act of cooking is transformed into the brewing of evil potions and knitting clothes takes the form of spider's web. The feeding process is also reversed, with the child now in danger of being eaten to feed the body of the Witch rather than being fed by the mother's own body. In that respect, the Witch is a mark of arrested development on the part of the man as it guards against feminine realities that his psyche is not yet able to incorporate fully. Fairy tales according to this interpretation mostly describe internal battles played out externally, where the hero saves his future bride by killing a witch, as in \"The Drummer\" (Grimms tale 193). This particular concept is expanded in Bly's 1989 talk \"The Human Shadow\" and the book it presented.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50519993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50519993", "title": "SMP Negeri 2 Kotabaru", "text": "SMP Negeri 2 Kotabaru\n\nSekolah Menengah Pertama Negeri 2 Kotabaru, or SMP Negeri 2 Kotabaru is a junior highschool in Kotabaru, Karawang, West Java, Indonesia. The first name of this school is SMP Negeri 3 Cikampek, but Cikampek District was divided into three districts.\n\nThe facilities and infrastructure in this school are:\n"}
{"id": "1393991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393991", "title": "Social Science Research Network", "text": "Social Science Research Network\n\nThe SSRN, formerly known as Social Science Research Network, is a repository devoted to the rapid dissemination of scholarly research in the social sciences and humanities and it has been expanding into the life, physical, health, and applied sciences since 2017. In May 2016, SSRN was bought from Social Science Electronic Publishing Inc. by Elsevier..\n\nSSRN was founded in 1994 by Michael Jensen and Wayne Marr, both financial economists.\n\nIn January 2013, SSRN was ranked the biggest open-access repository in the world by Ranking Web of Repositories (an initiative of the Cybermetrics Lab, a research group belonging to the Spanish National Research Council), measured by number of PDF files, backlinks and Google Scholar results.\n\nIn May 2016, SSRN was bought from Social Science Electronic Publishing Inc. by Elsevier.\n\nIn July 2016 there were reports of papers being removed from SSRN without notice; revision comments from SSRN indicated this was due to copyright concerns. SSRN CEO Gregg Gordon characterized the issue as a mistake affecting about 20 papers.\n\nStarting in 2017, SSRN has been adding new disciplines in areas such as biology, chemistry, engineering, medicine, computer science and more. \n\nAcademic papers in PDF format can be uploaded directly to the SSRN site by authors and are then available around the world via download. Users can also subscribe to abstracting emails covering a broad range of research areas and topic specialties. These distributing emails contain abstracts (with links to the full text where applicable) of papers recently submitted to SSRN in the respective field.\n\nSSRN, like other preprint services, circulates publications throughout the scholarly community at an early stage, permitting the author to incorporate comments into the final version of the paper before its publication in a journal. Moreover, even if access to the published paper is restricted, access to the original working paper remains open through SSRN, so long as the author decides to keep the paper up. Often authors take papers down at the request of publishers, particularly if they are published by commercial or university presses that depend on payment for paper copies or online access.\n\nAcademic papers in PDF format can be uploaded directly to the SSRN site by authors and are then available for worldwide free downloading. Publishers and institutions can upload papers and charge a fee for readers to download them. Users can also subscribe to abstracting email journals covering a broad range of subject matters. These e-journals then periodically distribute emails containing abstracts (with links to the full text where applicable) of papers recently submitted to SSRN in the respective field.\n\nOn SSRN, authors and papers are ranked by their number of downloads, which has become an informal indicator of popularity on prepress and open access sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "43258412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43258412", "title": "St. Augustine International University", "text": "St. Augustine International University\n\nSt. Augustine International University (SAIU) is a university in Uganda.\n\nSAIU is a multi-campus university. It maintains the following campuses:\nThe main campus is located in the neighborhood of \"Bunga\", in Makindye Division, one of the five administrative divisions of Uganda's capital city, Kampala. This location lies approximately , by road, southeast of the city's central business district. The approximate coordinates of the main campus of St. Augustine International University are:0°16'21.0\"N, 32°37'19.0\"E (Latitude:0.272500; Longitude:32.621944).\nThe Kisoro campus is located in the southwestern Ugandan town of Kisoro, approximately , by road, southwest of Kampala. The campus is close to Saint Francis Hospital Mutolere, which will serve as one of the teaching hospitals of the university. \nThe Mulago campus is located on Mulago Hill, in Kawempe Division, in northern Kampala, approximately , by road, north of the city's central business district. This location is adjacent to Mulago National Referral Hospital, another teaching hospital of the university. \nThe Namugongo campus is located at Namugongo, Kira Town, Wakiso District, approximately , by road, northeast of downtown Kampala. The location lies close to the shrines of the Uganda Martyrs, with streams flowing through the campus. The College of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine will be based here.\n\nSAIU is a private university in Uganda, established in 2011. It is accredited by the Uganda National Council for Higher Education, the national body that licenses institutions of higher education in the country. The multi-campus university is one of a number of private universities accredited between 2010 and 2014. The founding vice chancellor of the university is Charity Basaza Mulenga, an electrical and computer science engineer trained at Makerere University in Uganda and Loughborough University in the United Kingdom.\n\nAs of July 2014, SAIU was structured into four colleges:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9366607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9366607", "title": "Steve Bell (anchorman)", "text": "Steve Bell (anchorman)\n\nSteve Bell (born December 9, 1935) is the former news anchor of the ABC News programs, \"Good Morning America\" and \"World News This Morning\". Bell is a professor emeritus of telecommunications at Ball State University.\n\nA native of Oskaloosa, Iowa, Bell studied as an undergraduate at Iowa's Central College and went on to earn a master's degree in journalism from Northwestern University.\n\nBell worked for ABC News from 1967 to 1986. His experiences in Southeast Asia covering the Vietnam War included two hours in detention in Cambodia while investigating a story about an alleged massacre of Vietnamese residents. He first met Ted Koppel during his years in Southeast Asia, and they became good friends. After his return to America, he began working on \"Good Morning America\", where he would stay for 11 years, eventually rising to the position of news anchor. He left the position in 1986 and moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to co-anchor evening newscasts for KYW-TV. While there, he also anchored short-form news updates for the USA Network, alongside his colleagues at KYW, titled \"USA Updates\".\n\nBell left KYW in 1992 amidst drastic changes to the station's newscasts. He became a telecommunications professor at Ball State University in August 1992. He was inducted into the Indiana Journalism Hall of Fame in 2004. Interviewed in 2005, Bell indicated that he did not miss his work as a newscaster and reporter. He retired from his position at Ball State in 2007, taking on the title of emeritus.\n\nBell appeared on Nightline in 2005 to present a report on how China has changed since Mao's rule; he and Koppel had earlier filmed a documentary there during the Mao Zedong era. The Steve Bell News Packaging Scholarship is given each semester at Ball State University to students for excellence in television news story packaging.\n"}
{"id": "155526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155526", "title": "Student", "text": "Student\n\nA student is primarily a person enrolled in a school or other educational institution who attends classes in a course to attain the appropriate level of mastery of a subject under the guidance of an instructor and who devotes time outside class to do whatever activities the instructor assigns that are necessary either for class preparation or to submit evidence of progress towards that mastery. In the broader sense, a student is anyone who applies themselves to the intensive intellectual engagement with some matter necessary to master it as part of some practical affair in which such mastery is basic or decisive. \n\nIn the United Kingdom and India, the term \"student\" denotes those enrolled in secondary schools and higher (e.g., college or university); those enrolled in elementary schools are called \"pupils.\" \n\nIn Nigeria, education is classified into four system known as a 6-3-3-4 system of education. It implies six years in primary school, three years in junior secondary, three years in senior secondary and four years in the university. However, the number of years to be spent in university is mostly determined by the course of study. Some courses have longer study length than others. Those in primary school are often referred to as pupils. Those in university, as well as those in secondary school, are being referred to as students.\n\nThe Nigerian system of education also has other recognized categories like the polytechnics and colleges of education. The Polytechnic gives out National Diploma and Higher National Diploma certifications after a period of two years and/or four years of study respectively.\n\nHigher National Diploma (also known as HND) can be obtained in a different institution from where the National Diploma (also known as ND or OND) was obtained. However, the HND cannot be obtained without the OND certificate.\n\nOn the other hand, colleges of education give out NCE (Nigerian Certificate in Education) after a two year period of study.\n\nIn South Africa, education is divided into four bands: Foundation Phase (grades 1–3), Intermediate Phase (grades 4–6), Senior Phase (grades 7–9), and the Further Education and Training or FET Phase (grades 10–12). However, because this division is newer than most schools in the country, in practice, learners progress through three different types of school: primary school (grades 1–3), junior school (grades 4–7), and high school (grades 8–12). After the FET phase, learners who pursue further studies typically take three or four years to obtain an undergraduate degree or one or two years to achieve a vocational diploma or certificate. The number of years spent in university varies as different courses of study take different numbers of years. Those in the last year of high school (Grade 12) are referred to as 'Matrics' or are in 'Matric' and take the Grade 12 examinations accredited by the Umalusi Council (the South African board of education) in October and November of their Matric year. Exam papers are set and administered nationally through the National Department of Basic Education for government schools, while many (but not all) private school Matrics sit for exams set by the Independent Education Board (IEB), which operates with semi-autonomy under the requirements of Umalusi. (The assessment and learning requirements of both IEB and National exams are of roughly the same standard. The perceived better performance of learners within the IEB exams is largely attributable to their attending private, better-resourced schools with the much lower teacher: learner ratios and class sizes rather than because of fundamental differences in assessment or learning content). A school year for the majority of schools in South Africa runs from January to December, with holidays dividing the year into terms. Most public or government schools are 4-term schools and most private schools are 3-term school, but the 3-term government or public schools and 4-term private schools are not rare.\n\nSix years of primary school education in Singapore is compulsory.\n\nThere are also schools which have the integrated program, such as River Valley High School (Singapore), which means they stay in the same school from Secondary 1 to Junior College 2, without having to take the \"O\" level examinations which most students take at the end of Secondary school.\n\nInternational Schools are subject to overseas curriculums, such as the British, American, Canadian or Australian Boards.\n\nPrimary education is compulsory in Bangladesh. It is a near crime to not to send children to primary school when they are of age. But it is not a punishable crime (sending children to work instead of school is a crime). Because of the socio-economic state of Bangladesh, child labour is sometimes legal. But the guardian must ensure the primary education. Everyone who is learning in any institute or even online may be called a student in Bangladesh. Sometimes students taking undergraduate education are called undergraduates and students taking post-graduate education may be called post-graduates.\n\nEducation System Of Bangladesh:\nEducation is free in Brunei. Darussalam not limited to government educational institutions but also private educational institutions. There are mainly two types of educational institutions: government or public, and private institutions. Several stages have to be undergone by the prospective students leading to higher qualifications, such as Bachelor's Degree.\n\n\nIt takes six and five years to complete the primary and secondary levels respectively. Upon completing these two crucial stages, students/pupils have freedom to progress to sixth-form centers, colleges or probably straight to employment. Students are permitted to progress towards university level programs in both government and private university colleges.\n\nEducation in Cambodia is free for all the students who study in Primary School, Secondary School or High School.\nAfter basic education, students can opt to take a bachelor's (undergraduate) degree at a higher education institution (i.e. a college or university), which normally lasts for four years though the length of some courses may be longer or shorter depending on the institution.\n\nIn India school is categorized in these stages: Pre-primary (Nursery, Lower Kindergarten or LKG, Upper Kindergarten or UKG), Primary (Class 1-5), Secondary (6-10) and Higher Secondary (11-12). For undergraduate it is 3 years except Engineering (BTech or BE) which is of 4 years degree course, Architecture (B.Arch) which is 5 years degree course and Medical (MBBS) which is of 4.5 years degree course and 1 year Internship, so 5.5 years.\n\nIn Nepal 12-year school is categorized in three stages: Primary school, Secondary school and Higher Secondary school. For college it averages four years for a bachelor's degree (except BVSc and AH which is five years programme and MBBS which is a five and half years programme) and two years master's degree.\n\nIn Pakistan, 12-year school is categorized in three stages: Primary school, Secondary school and Higher Secondary school. It takes five years for a student to graduate from Primary school, five years for Secondary school and five years for Higher Secondary school (also called College). Most bachelor's degrees span over four years, followed by a two years master's degree.\n\nThe Philippines is currently in the midst of a transition to a K-12 (also called K+12) basic education system. Education ideally begins with one year of kinder. Once the transition is complete, elementary or grade school comprises grades 1 to 6. Although the term \"student\" may refer to learners of any age or level, the term 'pupil' is used by the Department of Education to refer to learners in the elementary level, particularly in public schools. Secondary level or high school comprises two major divisions: grades 7 to 10 will be collectively referred to as 'junior high school', whereas grades 11 to 12 will be collectively referred to as 'senior high school'. The Department of Education refers to learners in grade 7 and above as \"students\".\n\nAfter basic education, students can opt to take a bachelor's (undergraduate) degree at a higher education institution (i.e. a college or university), which normally lasts for four years though the length of some courses may be longer or shorter depending on the institution.\n\nIn Iran 12-year school is categorized in two stages: Elementary school and High school. It takes six years for a student to graduate from elementary school and six years for high school. High school study is divided into two part: junior and senior high school. In senior high school, student can choose between the following six fields: Mathematics and physics, Science, Humanities, Islamic science, Vocational, or Work and knowledge. After graduating from high school, students acquire a diploma. Having a diploma, a student can participate in the Iranian University Entrance Exam or Konkoor in different fields of Mathematics, Science, Humanities, languages, and art. The university entrance exam is conducted every year by National Organization of Education Assessment, an organization under the supervision of the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology which is in charge of universities in Iran. Members of the Bahá'í religion, a much-persecuted minority, are officially forbidden to attend university, in order to prevent members of the faith becoming doctors, lawyers or other professionals; however, Muslim, Christian, Jewish, and Zoroastrian people are allowed entry to universities.\n\nIn Australia, Pre-school is optional for three and four year olds. At age five, children begin compulsory education at Primary School, known as Kindergarten in New South Wales, Preparatory School (prep) in Victoria, and Reception in South Australia, students then continue to year one through six (ages 6 to 12). Before 2014, primary school continued on to year seven in Western Australia, South Australia and Queensland. However, the state governments agreed that by 2014, all primary schooling will complete at year six. Students attend High School in year seven through twelve (ages 13 – 18). After year twelve, students may attend tertiary education at University or vocational training at TAFE (Technical and Further Education).\n\nIn New Zealand, after kindergarten or pre-school, which is attended from ages three to five, children begin primary school, 'Year One', at five years of age. Years One to Six are Primary School, where children commonly attend local schools in the area for that specific year group. Then Year Seven and Year Eight are Intermediate, and from Year Nine until Year Thirteen, a student would attend a secondary school or a college.\n\nEurope uses the traditional, first form, second form, third form, fourth form, fifth form and six form grade system which is up to age eleven.\n\nIn Finland a student is called \"opiskelija\" (plural being 'opiskelijat'), though children in compulsory education are called \"oppilas\" (plural being 'oppilaat'). First level of education is \"esikoulu\" (literally 'preschool'), which used to be optional, but has been compulsory since the beginning of year 2015. Children attend esikoulu the year they turn six, and next year they start attending \"peruskoulu\" (literally \"basic school\", corresponds to American elementary school, middle school and junior high), which is compulsory. Peruskoulu is divided to \"alakoulu\" (years 1 through 6) and \"yläkoulu\" (years 7 through 9). After compulsory education most children attend second level education (toisen asteen koulutus), either lukio (corresponds to high school) or ammattikoulu (Vocational School), at which point they are called students (opiskelija). Some attend \"kymppiluokka\", which is a retake on some yläkoulu's education.\n\nTo attend ammattikorkeakoulu (University of applied sciences) or a university a student must have a second level education. The recommended graduation time is five years. First year students are called \"fuksi\" and students that have studied more than five years are called \"N:nnen vuoden opiskelija\" (Nth year student).\n\nThe generic term \"étudiant\" (lit. student) applies only to someone attending a University or a school of a similar level, that is to say pupils in a cursus reserved to people already owning a Baccalauréat. The general term for a person going to primary or secondary school is \"élève\". In some French higher education establishments, a \"bleu\" or \"bizuth\" is a first-year student. Second-year students are sometimes called \"carrés\" (squares). Some other terms may apply in specific schools, some depending on the classe préparatoire aux grandes écoles attended.\n\nIn Germany, the German cognate term \"Student\" (male) or \"Studentin\" (female) is reserved for those attending a university. University students in their first year are called \"Erstsemester\" or colloquially \"Ersties\" (\"firsties\"). Different terms for school students exist, depending on which kind of school is attended by the student. The general term for a person going to school is \"Schüler\" or \"Schülerin\". They begin their first four years in primary school or \"Volksschule\". They then graduate to a secondary school called \"Gymnasium\", which is a university preparatory school. Students attending this school are called \"Gymnasiasten\", while those attending other schools are called \"Hauptschüler\" or \"Realschüler\". Students who graduate with the Abitur are called \"Abiturienten\".\nThe abbreviation stud. + the abbreviation of the faculty p. e. phil. for \"philosophiae\" is a post-nominal for all students of a baccalaureus course. The abbreviation cand. for \"candidatus\" + the abbreviation of the faculty is given as a post-nominal to those close to the final exams. \"First name surname\", stud. phil. or \"First name surname\", cand. jur.\n\nIn Ireland, pupils officially start with primary school which consists of eight years: junior infants, senior infants, first class to sixth class (ages 5–11). After primary school, pupils proceed to the secondary school level. Here they first enter the junior cycle, which consists of first year to third year (ages 11–14). At the end of third year, all students must sit a compulsory state examination called the Junior Certificate. After third year, pupils have the option of taking a \"transition year\" or fourth year (usually at age 15-16). In transition year pupils take a break from regular studies to pursue other activities that help to promote their personal, social, vocational and educational development, and to prepares them for their role as autonomous, participative and responsible members of society. It also provides a bridge to enable pupils to make the transition from the more dependent type of learning associated with the Junior Cert. to the more independent learning environment associated with the senior cycle.\n\nAfter the junior cycle pupils advance to the senior cycle, which consists of fifth year and sixth year (usually ages between 16 and 18). At the end of the sixth year a final state examination is required to be sat by all pupils, known as the Leaving Certificate. The Leaving Cert. is the basis for all Irish pupils who wish to do so to advance to higher education via a points system. A maximum of 625 points can be achieved. All higher education courses have a minimum of points needed for admission.\n\nAt Trinity College, Dublin under-graduate students are formally called \"junior freshmen\", \"senior freshmen\", \"junior sophister\" or \"senior sophister\", according to the year they have reached in the typical four year degree course. \"Sophister\" is another term for a sophomore, though the term is rarely used in other institutions and is largely limited to Trinity College Dublin.\n\nAt university, the term \"fresher\" is used to describe new students who are just beginning their first year. The term, \"first year\" is the more commonly used and connotation-free term for students in their first year. The week at the start of a new year is called \"Freshers' Week\" or \"Welcome Week\", with a programme of special events to welcome new students. An undergraduate in the last year of study before graduation is generally known as a \"finalist.\"\n\nIn Italian, a \"matricola\" is a first-year student. Some other terms may apply in specific schools, some depending on the liceo classico or liceo scientifico attended.\n\nAccording to the goliardic initiation traditions the grades granted (following approximately the year of enrollment at university) are: \"matricola\" (freshman), \"fagiolo\" (sophomore), \"colonna\" (junior), and \"anziano\" (senior), but most of the distinctions are rarely used outside Goliardia.\n\nIn Sweden, only those studying at university level are called students (\"student\", plural \"studenter\"). To graduate from upper secondary school (\"gymnasium\") is called \"ta studenten\" (literally \"to take the student\"), but after the graduation festivities, the graduate is no longer a student unless he or she enrolls at university-level education. At lower levels, the word \"elev\" (plural \"elever\") is used. As a general term for all stages of education, the word \"studerande\" (plural also \"studerande\") is used, meaning 'studying [person]'.\n\nTraditionally, the term \"student\" is reserved for people studying at university level in the United Kingdom.\n\nAt universities in the UK, the term \"fresher\" is used informally to describe new students who are just beginning their first year. Although it is not unusual to call someone a fresher after their first few weeks at university, they are typically referred to as \"first years\" or \"first year students\".\n\nThe ancient Scottish University of St Andrews uses the terms \"bejant\" for a first year (from the French \"bec-jaune\" – \"yellow beak\", \"fledgling\"). Second years are called \"semi-bejants\", third years are known as \"tertians\", and fourth years, or others in their final year of study, are called \"magistrands\".\n\nIn England and Wales, primary school begins with an optional \"nursery\" year followed by reception and then move on to \"year one, year two\" and so on until \"year six\". In state schools, children join secondary school when they are 11–12 years old in what used to be called \"first form\" and is now known as \"year 7\". They go up to year 11 (formerly \"fifth form\") and then join the sixth form, either at the same school or at a separate sixth form college. A pupil entering a private, fee-paying school (usually at age 13) would join the \"third form\" — equivalent to year 9. Many schools have an alternate name for first years, some with a derogatory basis, but in others acting merely as a description — for example \"shells\" (non-derogatory) or \"grubs\" (derogatory).\n\nIn Northern Ireland and Scotland, it is very similar but with some differences. Pupils start off in nursery or reception aged 3 to 4, and then start primary school in \"P1\" (P standing for primary) or year 1. They then continue primary school until \"P7\" or year 7. After that they start secondary school at 11 years old, this is called \"1st year\" or year 8 in Northern Ireland, or \"S1\" in Scotland. They continue secondary school until the age of 16 at \"5th year\", year 12 or \"S5\", and then it is the choice of the individual pupil to decide to continue in school and (in Northern Ireland) do AS levels (known as \"lower sixth\") and then the next year to do A levels (known as \"upper sixth\"). In Scotland, students aged 16–18 take Highers, followed by Advanced Highers. Alternatively, pupils can leave and go into full-time employment or to start in a technical college.\n\nLarge increases in the size of student populations in the UK and the effect this has had on some university towns or on areas of cities located near universities have become a concern in the UK since 2000. A report by Universities UK, \"Studentification: A Guide to Opportunities, Challenges and Practice\" (2006) has explored the subject and made various recommendations. A particular problem in many locations is seen as the impact of students on the availability, quality and price of rented and owner-occupied property.\n\nEducation in Canada is within the constitutional jurisdiction of the provinces, and the overall curriculum is overseen by the provincial governments. As there is no overall national coordinating authority, the way the educational stages are grouped and named differs from region to region. Education is generally divided into primary education, followed by secondary education, and post-secondary education. Primary and secondary education are generally divided into numbered grades from 1 to 12, although the first grade may be preceded by kindergarten (optional in many provinces). Ontario and Quebec offer a pre-kindergarten, called a \"junior kindergarten\" in Ontario, and a \"garderie\" in Quebec.\n\nEducation in Ontario once involved an Ontario Academic Credit (OAC) as university preparation, but that was phased out in 2007, and now all provinces except Quebec have 12 grades. The OAC was informally known as \"grade 13\" and the name was also used to refer to the students who took it.\n\nEducation in Quebec differs from the other provinces in that it has an école primaire (literally \"primary school\") consisting of grades 1-6, and an école secondaire (literally \"secondary school\") consisting of secondaries I-V. Secondaries I-V are equivalent to grades 7-11. A student graduating from high school (grade 11) can then either complete a three-year college program or attend a two-year pre-university program required before attending university. In some English High Schools, as well as in most French schools, high school students will refer to secondary 1-5 as year one through five. So if someone in Secondary three is asked \"what grade/year are you in?\" they will reply \"three\" or \"sec 3\". It is presumed that the person asking the question knows that they are not referring to \"Grade 3\" but rather \"Secondary 3\". This can be confusing for those outside of Quebec.\n\nIn some provinces, grades 1 through 6 are called \"elementary school\", grades 6 to 8 are called \"middle school\" or \"junior high school\", and grades 9 to 12 are considered high school. Other provinces, such as British Columbia, mainly divide schooling into elementary school (Kindergarten to grade 7) and secondary school (grades 8 through 12). In Alberta and Nova Scotia, elementary consists of kindergarten through grade 6. Junior high consists of Grades 7-9. High school consists of Grades 10-12. In English provinces, the high school (known as \"academy\" or \"secondary school\") years can be referred to simply as \"first, second, third and fourth year\". Some areas call it by grade such as grade 10, grade 11 and grade 12.\n\nThe difference between college and university is significantly different from in the United States or even the United Kingdom. A Canadian college is more similar to an American community college but also the British, French and other European and British Commonwealth such as Australian and New Zealand etc., on the other hand. In contrast, a Canadian university is also quite comparable to an American university as well as many other universities among the English-speaking world and Francosphere. In Canada, colleges are generally geared for individuals seeking applied careers, while universities are geared for individuals seeking more academic careers.\n\nUniversity students are generally classified as first, second, third or fourth-year students, and the American system of classifying them as \"freshmen\", \"sophomores\", \"juniors\" and \"seniors\" is seldom used or even understood in Canada. In some occasions, they can be called \"senior ones\", \"twos\", \"threes\" and \"fours\".\n\nIn the United States, the first official year of schooling is called kindergarten, which is why the students are called kindergarteners. Kindergarten is optional in most states, but few students skip this level. Pre-kindergarten, also known as \"preschool\" (and sometimes shortened to \"Pre-K\") is becoming a standard of education as academic expectations for the youngest students continue to rise. Many public schools offer pre-kindergarten programs.\nIn the United States there are 12 years of mandatory schooling. The first eight are solely referred to by numbers (e.g. 1st grade, 5th grade) so students may be referred to as 1st graders, 5th graders, then once in middle school before high school you are ratio referred to as 6th, 7th, 8th graders. Upon entering high school, grades 9 through 12 (high school) also have alternate names for students, namely freshman, sophomore, junior and senior. The actual divisions of which grade levels belong to which division (whether elementary, middle, junior high or high school) is a matter decided by state or local jurisdictions.\n\nAccordingly, college students are often called Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors (respectively), unless their undergraduate program calls for more than the traditional 4 years.\n\nThe first year of college or high school is referred to as Freshman year. A freshman (slang alternatives that are usually derogatory in nature include \"fish\", \"new-g\", \"fresher\", \"frosh\", \"newbie\", \"freshie\", \"snotter\", \"fresh-meat\", \"skippie\", etc.) is a first-year student in college, university or high school.\n\nIn the U.S., a sophomore, also called a \"soph,\" is a second-year student. Outside the United States, the term Sophomore is rarely used, with second-year students simply called \"second years\". Folk etymology indicates that the word means \"wise fool\"; consequently \"sophomoric\" means \"pretentious, bombastic, inflated in style or manner; immature, crude, superficial\" (according to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\"). It is widely assumed to be formed from Greek \"sophos\", meaning \"wise\", and \"moros\" meaning \"foolish\", although the etymology suggests an origin from the now-defunct \"sophumer\", an obsolete variant of \"sophism\".\n\nIn the U.S., a Junior is a student in the penultimate (usually third) year and a Senior is a student in the last (usually fourth) year of college, university, or high school. A student who takes more than the normal number of years to graduate is sometimes referred to as a \"super senior\". This term is often used in college, but can be used in high school as well. The term underclassman is used to refer collectively to Freshmen and Sophomores, and Upperclassman to refer collectively to Juniors and Seniors, sometimes even Sophomores. The term Middler is used to describe a third-year student of a school (generally college) that offers five years of study. In this situation, the fourth and fifth years would be referred to as Junior and Senior years, respectively, and the first two years would be the Freshman and Sophomore years.\n\nA graduate student is a student who continues his/her education after graduation. Some examples of graduate programs are: business school, law school, medical school, and veterinary school. Degrees earned in graduate programs include the Master’s degree, a research doctoral degree, or a first professional degree.\n\nStudents attending vocational school focus on their jobs and learning how to work in specific fields of work. A vocational program typically takes much less time to complete than a four-year degree program, lasting 12–24 months. Liberal Arts that are required in four-year Universities are less important to these students because the skills necessary for their careers take precedence in order for a timely completion of the program.\n\nStudents have their own current of politics and activism on and off campus. The student rights movement has centered itself on the empowerment of students similar to the labor movement.\n\nA mature, non-traditional, or adult student in tertiary education (at a university or a college) is normally classified as an (undergraduate) student who is at least 21–23 years old at the start of their course and usually having been out of the education system for at least two years. Mature students can also include students who have been out of the education system for decades, or students with no secondary education. Mature students also make up graduate and postgraduate populations by demographic of age.\n\nUniversity students have been associated with pranks and japes since the creation of universities in the Middle Ages. These can often involve petty crime, such as the theft of traffic cones and other public property, or hoaxes. It is also not uncommon for students from one school to steal or deface the mascot of a rival school. In fact, pranks play such a significant part in student culture that numerous books have been published that focus on the issue.\n\n\n\"Freshman\" and \"sophomore\" are sometimes used figuratively, almost exclusively in the United States, to refer to a first or second effort (\"the singer's \"sophomore\" album\"), or to a politician's first or second term in office (\"freshman senator\") or an athlete's first or second year on a professional sports team. \"Junior\" and \"senior\" are not used in this figurative way to refer to third and fourth years or efforts, because of those words' broader meanings of \"younger\" and \"older.\" A junior senator is therefore not one who is in a third term of office, but merely one who has not been in the Senate as long as the other senator from their state. Confusingly, this means that it is possible to be both a \"freshman Senator\" and a \"senior Senator\" simultaneously: for example, if a Senator wins election in 2008, and then the other Senator from the same state steps down and a new Senator elected in 2010, the former Senator is both senior Senator (as in the Senate for two years more) and a freshman Senator (since still in the first term).\n\nInternational Students' Day (17 November) remembers the anniversary of the 1939 Nazi storming of the University of Prague after student demonstrations against the German occupation of Czechoslovakia. Germans closed all Czech universities and colleges, sent over 1200 students to Nazi concentration camps, and had nine student leaders executed (on November 17).\n\n"}
{"id": "56565380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56565380", "title": "T. K. V. Desikachar", "text": "T. K. V. Desikachar\n\nTirumalai Krishnamacharya Venkata Desikachar (21 June 1938 – 8 August 2016), better known as T. K. V. Desikachar, was a modern-day yoga teacher, whose father was the Indian yoga teacher, Tirumalai Krishnamacharya. In the West, there are several significant contemporary approaches to Hatha-Yoga, which are based on traditional teachings to varying degrees and which also utilize Yoga’s therapeutic potential. The most traditional orientation, which goes by the modern generic name of the Viniyoga (application) of Yoga, is found in the school of Tirumalai Krishnamacharya (1888-1989) and his son T. K. V. Desikachar.\n\nDesikachar was born in Mysore and moved to Madras (now Chennai) in the early 1960s. He had trained as an engineer, but, inspired by his father's teachings, he abandoned his engineering career and became a student of his father in 1960 even though it was at a time when the practice of yoga didn't have the respect it enjoys today. From the 1970s onwards he taught extensively in many parts of the world and published many books which became best sellers, with the result that his name and teachings became known worldwide. \n\nDesikachar is known for his incomparable ability to demystify yoga teachings and also for his pioneering work in the area of wellness and yoga therapy. During his intensive thirty years of study with his teacher, he learned the practice and application of all the tools of Yoga, including chanting, so as to be able to help people therapeutically, live their everyday life better and more productively, and evolve spiritually. He also studied in depth many literary works including the Vishnu Sahsranama, Bhagavad Gita, Visnu Purana, hymns of the great Vaisnavite saint Vedanta Desika, the Yoga Rahasya of Nathamuni, Patanjali's Yogasutra, Yajnavalkya Samhita, Yoga Taravalli, HathayogaPradipika. This long period of study is why Desikachar’s teaching so closely represents the complete tradition of his father...\n\nDrawing on his father's teachings, Desikachar went on to develop Viniyoga , a term from the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali. This highly individualised approach tailors the practice to each student's specific physical and mental condition, emotional state, age, cultural background, and interests. It is completely holistic, with all practice aspects completely aligned with the theory of yoga, especially of Patanjali’s Yoga Sutras.\n\nIn 1976 TKV Desikachar founded the Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram (KYM), a yoga therapy clinic and yoga center in Madras, India, as a non-profit public charitable trust, teaching yoga inside India. Under Desikachar’s leadership, the KYM offered teacher training and individual instruction in asana, pranayama, meditation, yoga philosophy, and Vedic chanting, as well as pioneering research into the impact of yoga on people suffering from schizophrenia, diabetes, asthma, and depression. KYM also has the SIRO (Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation) recognition awarded by the Department for Scientific and Industrial Research, Government of India. The institution is a public registered charity, identified by the Department of Family Health and Welfare, by the Government of Tamil Nadu.\n\nBecause the KYM had been primarily set up with legal and statutory provisions to operate only within India, barring it from any activity outside India, TKV Desikachar and his son & student, Dr. Kausthub Desikachar, in 2006 founded the Krishnamacharya Healing and Yoga Foundation also known as KHYF, a partnership firm located in India.This was done to spread the teachings of Viniyoga® globally, as the tradition by then had many international students all over the world. The Krishnamacharya Healing & Yoga Foundation (KHYF) currently claims to be the worldwide headquarters, the anchor and official umbrella organisation representing the Viniyoga® tradition of Professor T Krishnamacharya and Desikachar globally. The KHYF also has copyrighted Viniyoga® in India and European Union. \n\nHis wife, Menaka Desikachar, teaches yoga and Vedic chanting at KHYF. Bushan Desikachar, Dr. Kausthub Desikachar and Mekhala Desikachar are his three children. Dr. Kausthub Desikachar is also the Chief Executive and a senior teacher and yoga therapy consultant at KHYF. He was earlier also the Executive Trustree of the Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram till 2012. TKV Desikachar was one of the founders and directors of the institute. In 2012, Kausthub Desikachar stepped down from Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram and the Krishnamacharya Healing and Yoga Foundation after sexual misconduct allegations.These allegations were dropped by the authorities following the absence of any formal legal proceedings arising from the original allegations.\n\nDesikachar died on 08 August 2016 in Chennai, India at the age of 78.\n\n"}
{"id": "36667730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36667730", "title": "The Reading Teacher", "text": "The Reading Teacher\n\nThe Reading Teacher is a peer-reviewed academic journal published six times per year by Wiley-Blackwell. The current editors are Jan Lacina (Texas Christian University) and Robin Griffith (Texas Christian University). \"The Reading Teacher\" is one of three journals published on behalf of the International Literacy Association. It covers practical teaching ideas, research, and professional development for teachers of children up to age 12.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2011 impact factor of 0.770, ranking it 93rd out of 203 journals in the category \"Education & Educational Research\".\n"}
{"id": "4710535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4710535", "title": "Vancouver Community Network", "text": "Vancouver Community Network\n\nVancouver Community Network (or VCN) is a community-owned provider of internet tools and services in Vancouver, British Columbia for sharing the broadest range of information, experience, ideas, and wisdom. It was originally the Vancouver Regional FreeNet, which offered text-based access to community information and to the Internet. It continues to provides free internet services for individuals and non-profit groups, including dial-up, tech support and web hosting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4010858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4010858", "title": "Video relay service", "text": "Video relay service\n\nA video relay service (VRS), also sometimes known as a video interpreting service (VIS), is a video telecommunication service that allows deaf, hard-of-hearing, and speech-impaired (D-HOH-SI) individuals to communicate over video telephones and similar technologies with hearing people in real-time, via a sign language interpreter.\n\nA similar video interpreting service called video remote interpreting (VRI) is conducted through a different organization often called a \"Video Interpreting Service Provider\" (VISP).\n\nVRS is a newer form of telecommunication service to the D-HOH-SI community, which had, in the United States, started earlier in 1974 using a simpler non-video technology called telecommunications relay service, also known as \"TRS\", or simply as \"relay service\".\n\nVRS services have become well developed nationally in Sweden since 1997 and also in the United States since 2003. With the exception of Sweden, VRS has been provided in Europe for only a few years since the mid-2000s, and as of 2010 has not been made available in many European Union countries, with most European countries still lacking the legislation or the financing for large-scale VRS services, and to provide the necessary telecommunication equipment to deaf users. Germany and the Nordic countries are among the other leaders in Europe, while the United States is another world leader in the provisioning of VRS services.\n\nOne of the first demonstrations of the ability for telecommunications to help sign language users communicate with each other occurred when AT&T's videophone (trademarked as the \"Picturephone\") was introduced to the public at the 1964 New York World's Fair –two deaf users were able to communicate freely with each other between the fair and another city. Various universities and other organizations, including British Telecom's Martlesham facility, have also conducted extensive research on signing via videotelephony. The use of sign language via videotelephony was hampered for many years due to the difficulty of its use over slow analogue copper phone lines, coupled with the high cost of better quality ISDN (data) phone lines. Those factors largely disappeared with the introduction of more efficient video codecs and the advent of lower cost high-speed ISDN data and IP (Internet) services in the 1990s.\n\nSignificant improvements in video call quality of service for the deaf occurred in the United States in 2003 when Sorenson Media Inc. (formerly Sorenson Vision Inc.), a video compression software coding company, developed its VP-100 model stand-alone videophone specifically for the deaf community. It was designed to output its video to the user's television in order to lower the cost of acquisition, and to offer remote control and a powerful video compression codec for unequaled video quality and ease of use with video relay services. Favourable reviews quickly led to its popular usage at educational facilities for the deaf, and from there to the greater deaf community.\n\nCoupled with similar high-quality videophones introduced by other electronics manufacturers, the availability of high speed Internet, and sponsored video relay services authorized by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission in 2002, VRS services for the deaf underwent rapid growth in that country.\n\nUsing such video equipment, the deaf, hard-of-hearing, and speech-impaired can communicate between themselves and with hearing individuals using sign language. The United States and several other countries compensate companies to provide video relay service (VRS). Telecommunication equipment can be used to talk to others via a sign language interpreter, who uses a conventional telephone at the same time to communicate with the deaf person's party. Video equipment is also used to do on-site sign language translation via video remote interpreting (VRI). The relative low cost and widespread availability of 3G mobile phone technology with video calling capabilities have given deaf and speech-impaired users a greater ability to communicate with the same ease as others. Some wireless operators have even started free sign language gateways.\n\nSign language interpretation services via VRS or by VRI are useful in the present-day where one of the parties is deaf, hard-of-hearing, or speech-impaired (mute). In such cases the interpretation flow is normally within the same principal language, such as French Sign Language (LSF) to spoken French, Spanish Sign Language (LSE) to spoken Spanish, British Sign Language (BSL) to spoken English, and American Sign Language (ASL) also to spoken English (since BSL and ASL are completely distinct to each other), and so on.\n\nSign language interpreting involves considerable effort on the part of the interpreter, since sign languages are distinct natural languages with their own construction, semantics and syntax, different from the aural version of the same principal language.\n\nMultilingual sign language interpreters, who can also translate as well across principal languages (such as from spoken Spanish, to spoken English, to ASL and vice versa), are also available, albeit less frequently.\n\nWith video interpreting, sign language interpreters work remotely with live video and audio feeds, so that the interpreter can see the deaf or mute party, and converse with the hearing party, and vice versa. Much like telephone interpreting, video interpreting can be used for situations in which no on-site interpreters are available. However, video interpreting cannot be used for situations in which all parties are speaking via telephone alone. VRS and VRI interpretation requires all parties to have the necessary equipment. Some advanced equipment enables interpreters to control the video camera remotely, in order to zoom in and out or to point the camera toward the party that is signing.\n\nVideo Relay Services is based on three main factors: sign language interpreters, call center management (customer service, call center management), and platform provider (mobile app, servers). The following sortable table is a partial listing of worldwide Video Relay service platform vendors:\n\nThe following sortable table is a partial listing of worldwide VRS providers.\n\n\nCanada's regulatory Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) issued a policy order on July 21, 2009 requiring Canadian telecommunication, wireless service, and VoIP providers to implement IP-based text relay services by July 21, 2010, and also delaying a decision on the national provision of video relay services in both official languages (ASL & LSQ) for three years. According to deaf-community organizations Canada is lagging far behind its neighbour, the United States, with respect to video relay service for the deaf, hard-of-hearing, deaf-blind, and speech-impaired.\n\nThe Video Relay Service Trial Project, managed by Telus with Sorenson as the provider, ended on January 15, 2012. The trial project, which lasted for 18 months, was accessible for approximately 300 participants in BC and Alberta, and cost over $3 million (CAD).\n\nDenmark's video relay service is currently provided by TegnKom and 12K Studio (12K A/S).\n\nTegnKom was created in 2005 as project in cooperation with AMC Nord (Aarhus Municipality), and only offered to deaf people at their workplace. The service can only be used on Windows-based units with use-license for the preinstalled software (MMX).\n\n12K Studio was created and financed in 2011 by the nationwide sign language interpreter company, 12K A/S. The service can be used on Windows-, OS X/iOS-, Linux- and Android-based units (pc, mac and smartphones) with Skype and/or FaceTime app. 12K Studio service is primary offered to deaf people at their workplace, but can also be used in private for free.\n\nThere are two companies that provide VRS in France. France has legislated into a law the establishment of three VRS call centres to serve deaf and hard-of-hearing French consumers. However, the long-running disagreement in the French parliament on how to fund the service kept VRS from becoming a reality.\n\nThe deaf and hard-of-hearing callers receive the personal budget that covers the cost of VRS and videophone equipment. The personal budget is stipulated for three-year period.\n\nElioz is a providing both VRI and VRS in France. On the phone, in interview or in meeting, Elioz enables deaf, hard of hearing and hearing people to communicate in sign language, oral language, and writing using total conversation as a technical foundation of its services.\n\nTadeo is a communication platform for use between hearing, deaf and hard-of-hearing persons in a professional environment; it offers a French Sign Language interpretation service, in Cued Speech, and live Transcription, remotely and real-time.\n\nViable France was established in 2008 and bankrupt in 2015 by the deaf woman to provide VRS and VRI service in France. The company is fully independent of Viable, Inc. and has its own programming and engineering team. A distinction of Viable France is the sales and distribution of its own videophone product that was fully developed and engineered by the deaf engineers at Viable, Inc.\n\nSince October 8, 2018, the operators of the French Federation of Telecoms have launched the first interpersonal telecommunications service dedicated to the deaf, hearing-impaired, deafblind and aphasic, they can now phone independently with the application RogerVoice \n\nCurrently, Germany has two providers of VRS and VRI: they are TeSS and TeleSign. TeSS was created in 2005 by the consortium of Deutsche Gesellschaft der Hörgeschädigten (German Society of Hearing Impaired), Deutsche Telekom, Bundesnetzagenteur (federal infrastructure regulatory agency), and several other associations. Deutsche Telekom provided the initial funding for feasibility project that started in 2006. TeSS receives the federal subsidy of 1.7 million euros per year and has been awarded two-year contract starting on 1 January 2011 and expiring on 31 December 2012.\n\nThe deaf and hard-of-hearing clients who use the VRS for private calls must enrol with TeSS and arrange the payment method. They pay 14 eurocents per minute for text relay and 28 eurocents for video relay. TeSS is operated from eight in the morning to eleven in the evening.\n\nTeleSign provides the combined video relay and video remote interpreting service for the deaf and hard-of-hearing clients at work. The clients must apply to the integration agency for videophones and funds. The subscription is 220 euros per month with one euro per minute of video relay service. The integration agency restricts the monthly call volume to 100 minutes per client. TeleSign operates from seven in the morning to five in the afternoon.\n\nTeSS has recently added the work-related VRS/VRI as to countereffect the demand of integration agency to switch from TeleSign to \"cheaper\" TeSS service.\n\nDespite the availability of VRS providers in Germany since 2006, the VRS usage is very extremely low as compared to other countries (no more than 1200 clients out of 800,000 deaf people). The integration agency is notorious for rejecting the applications many times on \"cost benefit\" factor: the agency claims that some deaf clients do not make sufficient VRS calls per month to justify the cost or that the nature of employment does not warrant the need for VRS and videophones. The deaf and hard-of-hearing callers who use VRS for private calls do not receive any form of reimbursement for the VRS calls.\n\nThe grassroot movement is gaining momentum in pushing for the free VRS in Germany to subsided by the government through the contribution from the telecom companies.\n\nNAV, or the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration provides the national relay service for Norway. The service started in 2008, and its usage is increasing.\n\nSweden was the first country in the world to implement a public VRS fully subsidized by the government. The service started as a pilot project in 1996 for ISDN videophones, but started to offer SIP-based services in 2003. Currently the Swedish video relay service is the largest in Europe with an average of 110,000 minutes every month.\n\nThere is one national service for the country, which is procured by bids to the National Telecom and Postal Agency (PTS) every four years.\n\nThe service is provided by Evantia Oy, with call centers in Örebro, Uppsala and Gotland.\n\nCustomers may download a video software application from the service provider, use a web-based application or access the service using Skype and third-party SIP software.\n\nSignifican't (UK) Ltd, a deaf and sign language led social enterprise, was the first to establish an IP video relay service in 2004 in London. The SignVideo Contact Centre utilizes qualified and registered sign language interpreters and processed its 10,000th video call in 2006. It secured national contracts with Access to Work and the National Health Services to provide video remote interpreting services throughout the United Kingdom. In 2010 Significan't introduced the iSignVideo range of videophones and a web-based video calling service, the SignVideo SV2. This service is compliant with the concept of Total Conversation.\n\nconnectSCOTLAND BSL is the national VRS service for Scotland and it is free-of-charge for its users. The service was procured by the Scottish Government and it complies with standards for Total Conversation.\n\nIn the United States, VRS services have been regulated by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) since 2002.\n\nEd Bosson of the Texas Public Utility Commission (PUC) envisioned deaf people communicating with videophones more than 10 years before the FCC began reiumbursing for it. Bosson contacted Mark Seeger of Sprint Relay and discussed the possibilities. Seeger then contacted Sprint technicians to see if the proposal was feasible, and then suggested that Bosson bring the idea to Texas' PUC.\n\nIt took Bosson considerable time to convince the Texas PUC and to enlist help from a lawyer in interpreting. He first convinced his supervisor and then, one-by-one, the PUC Commissioners that video relay should become a part of statewide Telecom Relay Service offering. Bosson was authorized to manage the first video relay service trials, and Sprint became the first service provider to conduct the Texas Video Relay Service tests. Bosson would later receive national awards from \"Smithsonian Computerworld\" and \"TDI\" for his work with VRS.\n\nIn 1995, the first trial was run by Sprint in Austin and was limited to four public call centers.\n\nThe second trial occurred in 1997 and served ten cities in Texas. At that point, Sprint and Hanwave Interpreting partnered to provide service. Jon Hodson of Sorenson Communications worked with Ed Bosson during the early stages and provided video conferencing software during the VRS trial in Texas. (At this point the service was called \"Video Relay Interpreting\" or VRI, which a name that now refers to Video Remote Interpreting. Linda Nelson has been credited with changing the term from VRI to VRS.) Later, Hanwave Interpreting Service was bought by Communication Service for the Deaf, and Sprint expanded their relay subcontract to include VRS services in addition to the established TRS services.\n\nIn 2002, Washington and Texas tested a web based VRS, with CSDVRS providing VRS services via the Internet to Washingtonians.\n\nIn 2000, VRS officially became available throughout the State of Texas. In 2002, the FCC allowed for the reimbursement of interstate VRS providers via an interstate TRS fund administration, making the United States the second country after Sweden to federally subsidize VRS nationwide.\n\nThe Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is the regulatory body for VRS in the United States. In addition to overseeing VRS, the FCC also oversees Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS), from which the VRS regulatory framework has evolved. The FCC oversees TRS and VRS as a result of their mandate in the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) to facilitate the provisions equal access to individuals with disabilities over the telephone network.\n\nThe Interstate Telecommunications Relay Fund was created by the FCC to fund TRS and its scope was expanded to include VRS. Funding for the TRS comes from state tax, through rate adjustments or surcharge on local telephone bills. The tax on revenue is set by the FCC yearly and has been steadily increasing as the number of VRS minutes continues to climb. For 2007 the tax is 7.2/100ths of a penny per dollar of revenue, up from 3.8/100th of a penny in 2000. The current revenue tax of .0072 is expected to generate $553 million against telecommunications industry revenue of $76.8 billion. The fund is managed by National Exchange Carrier Association (NECA), which also administers the much larger Universal Service Fund and publishes the reimbursement rates paid to all relay providers.\n\nIn addition to regulating the funding of VRS, the FCC regulates the standards that VRS companies and their employees must follow in handling calls. These regulations ensure that VRS calls are handled appropriately and ethically.\n\nThe U.S. FCC-issued rulings include:\n\nOn December 12, 2005, the Commission released an order adopting new rules permitting carriers desiring to offer IP Relay and VRS services and receive payment from the Fund to seek certification as a provider eligible for compensation from the Fund. The record reflects that other entities that desire to offer VRS have been unable to join a certified state program.\n\n(i) a description of the forms of TRS to be provided (i.e., VRS, IP Relay and/or IP CTS); (ii) a description of how the provider will meet all non-waived mandatory minimum standards applicable to each form of TRS offered; (iii) a description of the provider's procedures for ensuring compliance with all applicable TRS rules; (iv) a description of the provider's complaint procedures; (v) a narrative describing any areas in which the provider's service will differ from the applicable mandatory minimum standards; (vi) a narrative establishing that services that differ from the mandatory minimum standards do not violate applicable mandatory minimum standards; (vii) demonstration of status as a common carrier; and (viii) a statement that the provider will file annual compliance reports demonstrating continued compliance with these rules.\n\nThe rules further provide that after review of the submitted documentation, the Commission shall certify that the provider of IP Relay, VRS and IP CTS is eligible for compensation from the Fund if the Commission determines that the certification documentation:\n\nAs of 2009 there have been six providers certified becoming eligible for reimbursement from the TRS fund under the rules advocated for by Daryl Crouse and supported by others in the industry.\n\n\nNormally:\n\nHearing people can also contact a deaf, hard-of-hearing, or speech-disabled person via VRS. To initiate a call, a hearing person calls a VRS and connects to a video interpreter who then contacts the video user.\n\nSome VRS services also offer:\n\nThe name \"videophone\" is not as standardized as its earlier counterpart, the \"telephone\", resulting in a variety of names and terms being used worldwide, and even within the same region or country. Videophones are also known as videotelephones (or video telephones) and often by an early trademarked name \"Picturephone\", which was the world's first commercial videophone produced in volume. The compound name\" \"videophone\" \"slowly entered into general use after 1950, although\" \"video telephone\" \"likely entered the lexicon earlier after\" \"video\" \"was coined in 1935. \"Videophone calls\" (also: \"videocalls\" and \"video chat\"), differ from videoconferencing in that they expect to serve individuals, not groups. However that distinction has become increasingly blurred with technology improvements such as increased bandwidth and sophisticated software clients that can allow for multiple parties on a call. In general everyday usage the term \"videoconferencing\" is now frequently used instead of \"videocall\" for point-to-point calls between two units. Both videophone calls and videoconferencing are also now commonly referred to as a \"video link\".\n\n\"Webcams\" are popular, relatively low cost devices which can provide live video and audio streams via personal computers, and can be used with many software clients for both video calls and videoconferencing.\n\nA \"videoconference system\" is generally higher cost than a videophone and deploys greater capabilities. A \"videoconference\" (also known as a \"videoteleconference\") allows two or more locations to communicate via live, simultaneous two-way video and audio transmissions. This is often accomplished by the use of a multipoint control unit (a centralized distribution and call management system) or by a similar non-centralized multipoint capability embedded in each videoconferencing unit. Again, technology improvements have circumvented traditional definitions by allowing multiple party videoconferencing via web-based applications. A separate webpage article is devoted to videoconferencing.\n\nA \"telepresence system\" is a high-end videoconferencing system and service usually employed by enterprise-level corporate offices. Telepresence conference rooms use state-of-the art room designs, video cameras, displays, sound-systems and processors, coupled with high-to-very-high capacity bandwidth transmissions.\n\nTypical use of the various technologies described above include calling or conferencing on a one-on-one, one-to-many or many-to-many basis for personal, business, educational, deaf video relay service and tele-medical, diagnostic and rehabilitative use or services. New services utilizing videocalling and videoconferencing, such as teachers and psychologists conducting online sessions, personal videocalls to inmates incarcerated in penitentiaries, and videoconferencing to resolve airline engineering issues at maintenance facilities, are being created or evolving on an ongoing basis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30802908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30802908", "title": "WordMasters", "text": "WordMasters\n\nThe WordMasters Challenge is an international Language Arts competition for students in grades 3 - 8. The assigned words increase in difficulty at each grade level. The \"Challenge\" tests take place three times a year in the students' classrooms and are scored on how well the kids are able to use their knowledge of the words to complete twenty analogies. The WordMasters Challenge encourages growth not only in vocabulary, but in critical thinking and verbal reasoning. Nearly 3,000 teams from throughout the United States and several foreign countries participate in this yearly competition.\n\nThere are three competitions each school year taking place about two months apart. On the first competition, students are tested on 25 words assigned to them. On the second competition, they are assigned 25 new words and are tested on all 50 words. On the third competition, they are assigned 25 additional words and are tested on all 75 words they have learned over the course of the school year.\n"}
{"id": "46372957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46372957", "title": "Zelia N. Breaux", "text": "Zelia N. Breaux\n\nZelia N. Breaux (February 6, 1880 – October 31, 1956) was an American music instructor and musician who played the trumpet, violin and piano. She organized the first music department at Oklahoma's Langston University and the school's first orchestra. As the Supervisor of Music for the segregated African American schools in Oklahoma City, Breaux organized bands, choral groups and orchestras, establishing a music teacher in each school in the district. She had a wide influence on many musicians including Charlie Christian and Jimmy Rushing, as well as novelist Ralph Ellison. Breaux was the first woman president of the Oklahoma Association of Negro Teachers and was posthumously inducted into the Oklahoma YWCA Hall of Fame, Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame and the Oklahoma Bandmasters Association Hall of Fame. The Oklahoma City/County Historical Society made a posthumous presentation of its Pathmaker Award to Breaux in 2017.\n\nZelia N. Page was born on 6 February 1880 in Jefferson City, Missouri to Inman Edward and Zelia Ball Page. She earned a bachelor's degree in music from the Lincoln Institute, where her father was serving as principal. When her father accepted the presidency of the Colored Agricultural and Normal University (now Langston University) on 1 May 1898, he offered her a job as a music teacher and she relocated to Oklahoma Territory. Page established the school's music department and taught piano and instrumental music. In 1902, she organized the first orchestra at Langston which began with seven musicians and two years later had grown to 23 students. She established the choral society, a glee club and the school band, requiring students to study classical music.\n\nOn 6 December 1905, Page married Armogen Breaux (9 August 1870 – 9 December 1958). The couple had one son, Inman A. Breaux (4 October 1908 – 24 November 1967), who was a Professor of Education, an Administrative Dean and Dean of Student Affairs at Langston University.\n\nIn 1918, Breaux left Langston and accepted the position as Supervisor of Music for the segregated African American schools in Oklahoma City. She established a music teacher in each grade school in the district, organized the Oklahoma City Community Band, and headed the music department at Douglass High School. While at Douglass, she organized a twenty-four-voice chorus, an eighteen-piece symphony orchestra, and several glee clubs. At this time, it was unusual for black schools to offer music training beyond voice instruction, but Breaux believed that the discipline and instruction of classical music served as a catalyst for elevating and mastering life.\n\nBreaux believed in her independence. She lived in Oklahoma City and taught, managed the Aldridge theater and rental properties, commuting back and forth to Langston, where her husband lived. She hired a live-in cook to prepare her meals.\n\nShe was a talented musician and played the trumpet, violin and piano. Breaux discouraged her students playing jazz, instructing them in classical music and music theory but she owned the only black theater in Oklahoma City and often hired blues and jazz musicians to play at her Aldridge Theater. Count Basie, Gonzelle White and King Oliver's bands all played there, as well as Ida Cox, Ma Rainey, Bessie Smith and Mamie Smith.\n\nThe Douglass High School band, which she organized in 1923 with twenty-five participants, was renowned throughout the United States. The students, who were both junior and senior high musicians, became minor celebrities. Through their national appearances, the band influenced a wide range of musicians including Eubie Blake, Charlie Christian, Duke Ellington, Jimmy Rushing, Noble Sissle, and Sherman Sneed. Ralph Ellison, novelist and musician, called Breaux his \"second mother\".\n\nIn 1932 Breaux organized the May Day celebrations, during which the Douglass band played. In 1933 the band led the Century of Progress Parade at the Chicago World's Fair and they performed for a national radio broadcast while there. The Douglass band performed at the Texas Centennial Celebration in Dallas in 1936 and in 1937 participated in the Black State Band Festival, which Breaux created, with seven other bands.\n\nBreaux earned a master's degree in music education from Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois in 1939. Her thesis was entitled, \"The development of instrumental music in Negro secondary schools and colleges\". Breaux was appointed as the first female President of the Oklahoma Association of Negro Teachers. She retired in 1948 from Douglass High School.\n\nBreaux died in Guthrie, Oklahoma on 31 October 1956.\n\nIn 1977, she was posthumously inducted into the YWCA Hall of Fame and in 1983, Breaux was inducted into the Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame. On 25 July 1991 she was entered in the Oklahoma Bandmasters Association Hall of Fame. The Oklahoma City/County Historical Society made a posthumous presentation of its Pathmaker Award to Zelia Breaux at its luncheon on September 9, 2017.\n\n"}
