{"id": "16305035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16305035", "title": "1938 Polish ultimatum to Lithuania", "text": "1938 Polish ultimatum to Lithuania\n\nThe 1938 Polish ultimatum to Lithuania was an ultimatum delivered to Lithuania by Poland on March 17, 1938. The Lithuanian government had steadfastly refused to have any diplomatic relations with Poland after 1920, protesting the annexation of the Vilnius Region by Poland. As pre-World War II tensions in Europe intensified, Poland perceived the need to secure its northern borders. Five days earlier, Poland, feeling supported by international recognition of the annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany, decided to deliver an ultimatum to Lithuania. The ultimatum demanded that the Lithuanian government unconditionally agree to establish diplomatic relations with Warsaw within 48 hours, and that the terms be finalized before March 31. The establishment of diplomatic relations would mean a \"de facto\" renunciation of Lithuanian claims to the region containing its historic capital, Vilnius (known in Polish as Wilno).\n\nLithuania, preferring peace to war, accepted the ultimatum on March 19. Although diplomatic relations were established as a result of the ultimatum, Lithuania did not agree to recognize the loss of Vilnius \"de jure\". The government of Poland made a similar move against the Czechoslovak government in Prague on September 30, 1938, when it took advantage of the Sudeten Crisis to demand a portion of Zaolzie. On both occasions, Poland used the international crises to address long-standing border disputes.\n\nLithuania severed its diplomatic ties with Poland after the Polish general Lucjan Żeligowski staged a mutiny in October 1920 by order of Józef Piłsudski. He invaded Lithuanian-held territory, captured the disputed city of Vilnius (known to Poles as Wilno), and established the short-lived Republic of Central Lithuania. This entity was incorporated into Poland in 1922. In demographic terms Vilnius was the least Lithuanian of Lithuanian cities, divided almost evenly between the Polish-speaking population and Jews, with Lithuanian-speaking inhabitants constituting about 2–3% of the population, according to Russian (1897) and German (1916) censuses. Lithuania demanded that Polish troops withdraw behind the line drawn in the Suwałki Agreement, while Poland falsely maintained that it had not authorized Żeligowski's actions. The League attempted to mediate the dispute and Paul Hymans presented concrete proposals to form a federation. However, both sides were unwilling to make compromises and negotiations collapsed in January 1922. In January 1923, Lithuanian troops crossed over to the Allied-held Memelland and staged the Klaipėda revolt. It was one of the main factors that led to the decision of the Conference of Ambassadors to award Vilnius to Poland in March 1923.\n\nThe result was a state of \"no war, no peace\" as Lithuania avoided recognizing any Polish claims to the city and the region, as well as refusing to undertake any actions that would recognize Poland's control of Vilnius even \"de facto\". Lithuania broke off all diplomatic relations with Poland and continuously emphasized that Vilnius remained its permanent capital (Kaunas was designated as the temporary capital). Poland refused to formally recognize the existence of any dispute regarding the region, since that would have lent legitimacy to the Lithuanian claims. Railroad traffic and telegraph lines could not cross the border, and mail service was complicated. For example, a letter from Poland to Lithuania needed to be sent to a neutral country, repackaged in a new envelope to remove any Polish signs, and only then delivered to Lithuania. The conflict over Vilnius remained the most important foreign policy issue in Lithuania, but it became increasingly marginalized in the international arena. There were unsuccessful informal attempts to normalize the situation, most notably by the Lithuanian Prime Minister Augustinas Voldemaras between 1927 and 1928 and by Foreign Minister Stasys Lozoraitis between 1934 and 1936, who asked President Smetona to re-establish the diplomatic relations with Poland. Both sides engaged in emotional and nationalistic rhetoric.\n\nOn March 11, a day before Austria was annexed into Greater Germany following the Anschluss, Justas Lukoševičius, a Lithuanian border patrol, shot Stanisław Serafin, a Polish soldier, on the demarcation line in the village of Trasninkas near Merkinė. The exact circumstances are not clear as the obscure event was variously portrayed as a Lithuanian provocation, a Polish provocation, or as an unfortunate accident. During the 1920s and 1930s, similar incidents had occurred: between 1927 and 1937 seven Lithuanian border guards were killed during the course of 78 events. Usually, such incidents were handled at the local level in an attempt to forestall escalation. On this occasion, however, Polish radio and newspapers picked up the story and fanned anti-Lithuanian sentiment. Protests were held in Warsaw, Vilnius, and four other cities where the crowds shouted for military action against Lithuania. There is evidence that the Camp of National Unity was involved in organizing the protests.\n\nOn March 13, the Polish government issued a threatening statement accusing Lithuania of provocation. On the following day, the Senate of the Republic of Poland called for the establishment of diplomatic relations and for the Lithuanian renunciation of claims to Vilnius. Upon receiving news that Poland was considering extreme measures, President Smetona was verging towards agreeing to discuss diplomatic relations, but changed his mind at almost the last minute. On the night of March 14, the Lithuanians, acting through France's envoy to Warsaw, proposed a commission to investigate the shooting incident and to agree on measures to avoid such incidents in the future. This was a partial measure that clearly did not satisfy Poland, which responded by refusing, in the first paragraph of the ultimatum delivered three days later, to establish such a commission. At the same time Lithuanian diplomats approached foreign powers in a bid for international support.\n\nThe first version of the ultimatum, as drafted by Edward Rydz-Śmigły, Prime Minister Felicjan Sławoj Składkowski, and Jan Szembek, contained six demands:\n\n\nThe Polish Foreign Minister Józef Beck, who had just returned from a trip to Sorrento, called for a government meeting on the night of March 16. During the meeting he argued that the ultimatum needed to contain only one demand: the establishment of diplomatic relations. In his view, such an ultimatum would not have violated any genuine Lithuanian interests and would offer much-improved prospects for peaceful resolution of the conflict and a speedy relief of tension. It was in accordance with Beck's vision for Eastern Europe, which was based on a Warsaw-dominated Polish–Baltic–Scandinavian bloc free of Soviet or German influence, a modified version of Józef Piłsudski's Międzymorze, which required the normalization of relations with Lithuania. The removal of the other demands also reflected political pressure on Poland from the Soviet Union, France, and the United Kingdom to prevent the conflict from escalating into warfare.\n\nThe Polish government agreed to Beck's proposal, and the ultimatum was toned down. However, at the same time, Beck ordered military preparations. Poland assembled four divisions along the demarcation line; about 50,000 Polish troops were present, and just over 20,000 Lithuanian troops. The Polish troops were reinforced by armored vehicles, by two air force regiments, consisting of about one hundred aircraft, and by the Polish fleet in the waters of the Baltic Sea along the Lithuanian shore.\n\nThe final text of the ultimatum, completed by Józef Beck and delivered through a Polish envoy in Tallinn to Bronius Dailidė, the Lithuanian envoy in Tallinn, was as follows:\n\nThe ultimatum contained an attachment: a draft of what would be deemed an acceptable response to the ultimatum. The proposed response stated only that Lithuania agreed to establish regular diplomatic relations, send a legation to Warsaw, and guarantee normal conditions of operation for a Polish legation in Kaunas.\n\nAfter the Soviet–Lithuanian Peace Treaty was ratified in 1920, the Russian SFSR recognized Lithuanian claims to the Vilnius Region and continued to support them. In its responses to the 1938 ultimatum, the Soviet Union expressed concerns over Lithuania's independence and threatened to abrogate the Soviet–Polish Non-Aggression Pact of 1932. It made it clear, though, that it did not wish to be drawn into an armed conflict. This stance has been attributed to the growth of a threat from Japan; armed assistance to Lithuania would have required the Red Army to invade either Poland or Latvia and could have resulted in a war on two fronts. The Soviets urged France, a major ally of Poland at the time, to de-escalate the conflict and encourage a more moderate version of the ultimatum. France and the United Kingdom, preoccupied with the Anschluss, pressured Lithuania to normalize the relationship with Poland as soon as possible. They feared that the ultimatum had been approved by Nazi Germany.\n\nGermany, led by Adolf Hitler, now turned its attention to the Klaipėda Region, then held by Lithuania. In April 1938, Hitler stated that control of the Port of Klaipėda (German: \"Memel\") and its surrounding area was Germany's second-most important issue, following the status of the Sudeten area. In the event of armed hostilities between Poland and Lithuania, German troops were to defend and occupy the Klaipėda region and significant portions of western Lithuania. The Polish ambassador to Nazi Germany, Józef Lipski, was informed of these plans. The Poles agreed to cooperate with German troops and to respect German interests in Klaipėda if such an armed conflict were to arise. However, in Hitler's assessment, an immediate bid for Klaipėda was impolitic; he wished to maintain the \"status quo\" until more time had passed after the Anschluss. The German suggestion was that Lithuania concede to the Polish demands.\n\nLithuania, Latvia, and Estonia, the three Baltic states, had formed the Baltic Entente in 1934. Its principal purposes were coordination of joint foreign policy and mutual international diplomatic support; it was not a military alliance. In Latvian and Estonian opinion, the Polish–Lithuanian dispute over Vilnius was outside the scope of the Entente, but they wished for a resolution, considering the conflict detrimental to the stability of the region. Latvia attempted to persuade Estonia to exert mutual pressure on Lithuania for a speedy acceptance of the ultimatum. This reaction from an ally was unexpected.\n\nPresident Smetona held a government meeting late on the night of March 18, to decide whether to accept the ultimatum. Lithuania clearly lacked international support and the demand was rather tame. A refusal would have cast Lithuania in an unfavorable light as an unreasonable disputant that had irrationally rejected peaceful diplomatic relations for eighteen years. Lithuanian diplomats were divided on the issue, while popular opinion was strongly against accepting the ultimatum. Various campaigns for the Lithuanian liberation of Vilnius had attracted massive participation. \"Mourning of Vilnius Day\" (October 9, when Żeligowski invaded Lithuania and captured Vilnius), had become an annual event, and the largest social organization in interwar Lithuania was the League for the Liberation of Vilnius (Vilniaus vadavimo sąjunga, or VVS), with some 25,000 members. Passionate feelings about Vilnius were expressed in a popular slogan \"Mes be Vilniaus nenurimsim\" (we will not rest without Vilnius), part of a poem by Petras Vaičiūnas. While Paul Hymans' regional peace plans at the League of Nations were under negotiation, Lithuanian Prime Minister Ernestas Galvanauskas barely survived an assassination attempt. A government decision to open over 80 Polish schools in Lithuania was a probable factor in the 1926 Lithuanian coup d'état. Any government making concessions to Poland at that time risked an ouster.\n\nPresident Smetona received memoranda from nine nationalistic organizations urging the government to reject the ultimatum. However, a decisive comment was made by General Stasys Raštikis, the commander of the Lithuanian army: He testified that a military victory over Poland was impossible and argued for a peaceful resolution. The government's decision was confirmed by the Fourth Seimas with minimal discussion. On March 19, Dailidė relayed acceptance of the ultimatum to the Poles, who gave a 12-hour extension to decide on the ultimatum as a show of good faith.\n\nThe ultimatum contributed to the general atmosphere of tension and fear in Europe. It relieved some of the pressure on Germany that had arisen in the aftermath of the Anschluss and tested the Soviets' willingness to defend their interests in Eastern Europe. Fears were expressed, both in Lithuania and abroad, that the establishment of diplomatic relations was not the only goal of Warsaw and that more far-reaching ultimata might follow. Speculations arose that Poland might seek to resurrect the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, using Germany's annexation of Austria as a precedent. Poland announced that it planned to create a neutral bloc comprising Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Romania to counter both fascism and communism. It stated that it had no wish to incorporate Lithuanian territories and maintained that the bloc would be formed on the basis of bilateral non-aggression and economic treaties. According to \"The New York Times\", the impact of the ultimatum was felt on Wall Street; on March 17, the foreign currency and bond markets sagged, in some cases reaching the lowest points seen in several years. These markets recovered on March 19, after the ultimatum was accepted.\n\nThe acceptance triggered a government crisis in Lithuania: on March 24, Prime Minister Juozas Tūbelis, who held uncompromising positions over Vilnius and at the time of the ultimatum was undergoing medical treatment in Switzerland, stepped down. His successor, Vladas Mironas, who was in favor of normalizing relations with Poland, assembled a new cabinet of ministers. Despite increasing pressure to form a broader coalition, the new cabinet was composed solely of members of the Lithuanian Nationalists Union. The unconditional acceptance hurt Lithuanian pride and damaged the reputation of the party. The suppressed opposition used this damage as an opportunity to renew its activities and formed a group called \"Ašis\" (Axis). In Poland the acceptance was greeted with enthusiasm, described as a \"great bloodless victory\", and celebrated by a military march in Vilnius.\n\nA few days after the ultimatum, both Lithuania and Poland named their ambassadors. Kazys Škirpa was sent to Warsaw, and Franciszek Charwat was sent to Kaunas before March 31, the deadline indicated in the ultimatum. Negotiations over practical matters began on March 25, in Augustów, and by June three agreements covering rail transit, mail service, and river navigation had been concluded. The railroad, torn apart for several kilometers at the border, was repaired. A customs post was established in Vievis, and consulates were opened in Klaipėda and Vilnius. Lithuania closed the League for the Liberation of Vilnius and the Vilnius Foundation; the latter organization had given financial support to Lithuanian activities in the Vilnius Region. Nevertheless, Lithuania continued to claim Vilnius as its \"de jure\" capital. In May 1938 a new constitution was adopted, which echoed the previous constitution's statement that Vilnius was the permanent capital of Lithuania and that Kaunas was merely a temporary capital. Poland continued to suppress Lithuanian organizations in Vilnius.\n\nA thaw in Polish–Lithuanian relations began in spring 1939. After the German–Czech and German–Lithuanian crises, Poland made more active efforts to ensure Lithuania's assistance, or at least neutrality, in the event of a war with Nazi Germany. Lithuanian General Stasys Raštikis and Polish Foreign Minister Józef Beck made high-profile visits to each other's countries, and Poland improved the conditions of Lithuanians in the Vilnius Region. However, Lithuania did not believe that Poland and its western allies were strong enough to resist Germany and the Soviet Union. When Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, Lithuania maintained a policy of strict neutrality, refusing repeated German offers for a joint attack on Poland to capture Vilnius. Instead, Lithuania interned about 15,000 Polish soldiers and accepted about 35,000 Polish civilian refugees. The Soviet Union returned Vilnius to Lithuania after the Soviet invasion of Eastern Poland in September 1939. Neither country was aware at the time of the secret protocols of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, signed in August 1939, in which Germany and the Soviet Union agreed to divide the region into their spheres of influence. In June 1940, the Soviet Union occupied and annexed Lithuania in accordance with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. A year later Russia was attacked by Nazi Germany leading to the Nazi occupation of Lithuania.\n"}
{"id": "5963662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5963662", "title": "AV Festival", "text": "AV Festival\n\nAV Festival is an international Festival of contemporary art, film and music, based in Newcastle upon Tyne. A biennial event, the Festival is thematically curated across contemporary artistic practice and wider society.\n\nAV Festival 2014: Extraction ran from 1 – 31 March 2014. The curated programme featured 11 exhibitions, 36 film screenings, 10 concerts and 11 new commissions.\n\nHighlights of the Festival included newly commissioned art works, sound walk and performances by Akio Suzuki, new commissions by Susan Stenger and Lara Almarcegui, with weekend focuses on Digging for Sound and Post-Colonial Cinema. The closing weekend saw the music group Test Dept return with their debut event since the group disbanded in 1997. This large-scale outdoor event took place at the dramatic Dunston Staiths. Viewed from boats on the River Tyne over three nights, the event marked the 30th anniversary of the Miners’ Strike.\n\nAV Festival 2012: As Slow As Possible ran from 1–31 March 2012, and had the curatorial theme of slowness. Titled after \"ASLSP (As SLow aS Possible)\", by artist John Cage, the AV Festival 2012 theme explored how artists have stretched, measured and marked the passage of time. Some works lasted the full 31 days of the Festival.\n\nFor the first time, the Festival ran for a whole month. It took place at different speeds, paces and times of day, across Newcastle, Gateshead, Middlesbrough and Sunderland, including 22 exhibitions, 38 film screenings, 15 concerts, six walks, a 744-hour continuous online radio, plus 16 new commissions and 18 UK premieres.\n\nAV Festival 2012 achieved 94,096 visits, a 33% increase on 2010. It attracted 24% of visitors from outside the region, contributed £516k GVA to the local economy, and achieved a return on investment of £2.88 for every £1 of public funding received. 92% of the audience rated the quality of the Festival as good or outstanding. In his Guardian article Sukhdev Sandhu described the Festival as “one of the most imaginative festivals to be staged in the UK for many years.”\n\nHighlights of AV Festival 2012 included: new commissions by Yoshi Wada, Susan Stenger, Phill Niblock, Jonathan Schipper and Torsten Lauschmann; the closing Festival \"Slowalk\" by Hamish Fulton; a tribute concert to John Cage; Kenneth Goldsmith in Morden Tower; and public readings of On Kawara’s \"One Million Years.\"\n\nIn addition the Festival film programme focused on slowness and cinema, including special screenings with James Benning, Ben Rivers and Lav Diaz; concerts included a special tribute to Peter Christopherson; the Festival ran a 744-hour special online radio, and hundreds of people took part in a series of artist-led walks across the region.\n\nAV Festival 2010: Energy ran from 5 – 14 March 2010, and had the curatorial theme of energy. The Festival explored energy as a universal force that connects, transforms and renews life. It approached the theme from a scientific, technological, environmental and spiritual perspective. New commissions included a coal-fired computer, a café importing via social networks, a film tracking the movement of the sun, and compositions based on the energy of rivers.\n\nThe Festival included 24 exhibitions, 20 performances, 15 screenings, 14 talks, 3 symposia, 2 residencies and a café. This included working with 140 artists, on 18 new commissions and 15 UK premieres, in partnership with 31 venues. Over ten days there were 70,860 visits, an increase of 65% from 2008. The Festival contributed £480k of GVA to the local economy, and achieved £1.25 of economic output per pound invested. AV Festival 2010 won a Silver Award at the North East Tourism Awards.\n\nHighlights of AV Festival 2010 included: new commissions by Charlemagne Palestine, Graham Harwood, Kaffe Matthews, Lee Patterson and Jana Winderen; Kate Rich’s \"Feral Trade Café\" with its daily menu; exhibitions by Felix Gonzalez-Torres, Felix Hess, artificiel and Zilvinas Kempinas; and the closing night performance with Iain Sinclair, Alan Moore, Susan Stenger, FM Einheit and Stephen O’Malley. In addition the Festival included a focus on recycled film with Kenneth Anger, Craig Baldwin and Rick Prelinger, an underwater concert by Cluster, Liliane Lijn’s \"Power Game\" and a guest lecture by Gustav Metzger.\n\nAV Festival 2008: Broadcast ran from 28 February – 8 March 2008, and had the curatorial theme of broadcast. The UK began to switch off analogue television signals in 2007, paving the way for television to become entirely digital. At the same time the internet and mobile networks have created opportunities for us to broadcast ourselves in entirely new ways. AV Festival 2008 created a catalyst for debate about the future of broadcasting, and celebrated the history of transmission.\n\nAV Festival 2008 took place across Newcastle, Gateshead, Sunderland and Middlesbrough, and included 12 exhibitions, 37 screenings, 18 performances, 18 talks, symposia and workshops, 14 new commissions, 4 launch events and 3 radio stations. Over ten-days there were a total of 43,038 visits, a 26% increase from 2006. The Festival introduced new audiences to the work: 42% had not been to a similar event before. AV Festival 2008 won a Silver Award at the North East Tourism Awards.\n\nHighlights of AV Festival 2008 included new commissions by Chris Watson and Marko Peljhan, the live performance of John Cage’s \"Variations VII\", and solo exhibitions by Harun Farocki, Sonia Boyce, Staalplaat Soundsystem and Joyce Hinterding. In addition the Festival ran three FM radio stations across the region, a special tribute to the radiophonic workshop, performances by Jean-Jacques Perrey, a series of TV screenings at the cinema, and a symposia about music, sound and broadcasting technologies.\n\nAV Festival 2006: LifeLike ran from 2 – 12 March 2006, and had the curatorial theme of life sciences. Our perceptions of what life is, when it starts and ends, and how it works have been transformed by science and technology. AV Festival 2006 featured works that show how technology can mimic, impersonate and simulate life. It also explored the way that biotechnology, genetic engineering and cloning have radically altered the way we imagine life.\n\nAV Festival 2006 took place across Newcastle, Gateshead, Sunderland and Middlesbrough, and included 13 exhibitions, 29 screenings, 8 performances, 17 talks, symposia and workshops, 9 new commissions, and 4 launch events. Over ten days it achieved 34,142 visits, of which 88% were new audiences to the Festival. AV Festival 2006 featured the Festival's first exhibition programme with special preview evenings, including a new installation by Anthony McCall.\n\nHighlights of AV Festival 2006 included: new commissions by Ryoji Ikeda, Michael Nyman, Gina Czarnecki, Anthony McCall and Kenneth Rinaldo; a live performance by Alva Noto (Carsten Nicolai); Suguro Goto’s robotic orchestra; and the premiere of Critical Art Ensemble’s \"Marching Plague\". In addition there was a comprehensive film programme about how cinema has played a central role in our visions of the future, and a two-day symposium exploring life from social, scientific, technological, ethical and artistic perspectives.\n\nAV Festival 2003 took place primarily in cinema spaces across the region, including the recently closed and abandoned Odeon (Paramount) Cinema on Pilgrim Street in Newcastle. Highlights included: the live performance of \"Man with a Movie Camera\" by The Cinematic Orchestra; \"Time Code Live\" with Mike Figgis; and Matthew Barney’s \"The Cremaster Cycle.\" In addition there was a Mike Figgis mini-retrospective, a series of onedotzero programmes, artist films at Cineside including Lillian Schwartz, newly commissioned Richard Fenwick films, and a live performance by Tina Frank.\n\n"}
{"id": "27143038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27143038", "title": "Action On Film International Film Festival", "text": "Action On Film International Film Festival\n\nThe Action On Film International Film Festival, also known as the Action On Film Festival, was founded in 2004. It was held in California until 2017 when it moved to the Palms Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. As a hub for many returning filmmakers, AOF has become an Official Distributor to SHORTS.TV as well as programming Feature Films for a number of Indie Theaters.\n\nThe Action on Film International Film Festival was founded in 2004 by Del Weston. After being disappointed by a bad experience, Weston sought to create a festival where filmmakers could showcase their films. It was first held in Long Beach, California as a part of the Long Beach International Martial Arts Championships. In 2008, it moved to Pasadena, California. In 2012, it moved to Monrovia, California. In 2017, it was moved to Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nThe festival accepts all major genres and is not limited to action films.\n\nEach year the festival recognizes outstanding actors and projects in nearly eighty categories including the Action On Film Lifetime Achievement Awards. Winners of this award are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "282291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282291", "title": "Aftermath of World War I", "text": "Aftermath of World War I\n\nThe aftermath of World War I saw drastic political, cultural, economic, and social change across Eurasia (Europe and Asia), Africa, and even in areas outside those that were directly involved. Four empires collapsed due to the war, old countries were abolished, new ones were formed, boundaries were redrawn, international organizations were established, and many new and old ideologies took a firm hold in people's minds.\n\nWorld War I also had the effect of bringing political transformation to most of the principal parties involved in the conflict, transforming them into electoral democracies by bringing near-universal suffrage for the first time in history, as in Germany (German federal election, 1919), Great Britain (United Kingdom general election, 1918), and Turkey (Turkish general election, 1923).\n\nThrough the period from the armistice on 11 November 1918 until the signing of the peace treaty with Germany on 28 June 1919, the Allies maintained the naval blockade of Germany that had begun during the war. As Germany was dependent on imports, it is estimated that 523,000 civilians had lost their lives. N. P. Howard, of the University of Sheffield, claims that a further quarter of a million more died from disease or starvation in the eight-month period following the conclusion of the conflict. The continuation of the blockade after the fighting ended, as author Robert Leckie wrote in \"Delivered From Evil\", did much to \"torment the Germans ... driving them with the fury of despair into the arms of the devil.\" The terms of the Armistice did allow food to be shipped into Germany, but the Allies required that Germany provide the means (the shipping) to do so. The German government was required to use its gold reserves, being unable to secure a loan from the United States.\n\nHistorian Sally Marks claims that while \"Allied warships remained in place against a possible resumption of hostilities, the Allies offered food and medicine after the armistice, but Germany refused to allow its ships to carry supplies\". Further, Marks states that despite the problems facing the Allies, from the German government, \"Allied food shipments arrived in Allied ships before the charge made at Versailles\". This position is also supported by Elisabeth Gläser who notes that an Allied task force, to help feed the German population, was established in early 1919 and that by May 1919 \" Germany [had] became the chief recipient of American and Allied food shipments\". Gläser further claims that during the early months of 1919, while the main relief effort was being planned, France provided food shipments to Bavaria and the Rhineland. She further claims that the German government delayed the relief effort by refusing to surrender their merchant fleet to the Allies. Finally, she concludes that \"the very success of the relief effort had in effect deprived the [Allies] of a credible threat to induce Germany to sign the Treaty of Versailles. However, it is also the case that for eight months following the end of hostilities, the blockade was continually in place, with some estimates that a further 100,000 casualties among German civilians due to starvation were caused, on top of the hundreds of thousands which already had occurred. Food shipments, furthermore, had been entirely dependent on Allied goodwill, causing at least in part the post-hostilities irregularity.\n\nAfter the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on 28 June 1919, between Germany on the one side and France, Italy, Britain and other minor allied powers on the other, officially ended war between those countries. Other treaties ended the relationships of the United States and the other Central Powers. Included in the 440 articles of the Treaty of Versailles were the demands that Germany officially accept responsibility for starting the war and pay economic reparations. The treaty drastically limited the German military machine: German troops were reduced to 100,000 and the country was prevented from possessing major military armaments such as tanks, warships, armored vehicles and submarines.\n\nHistorians continue to argue about the impact the 1918 flu pandemic had on the outcome of the war. It has been posited that the Central Powers may have been exposed to the viral wave before the Allies. The resulting casualties having greater effect, having been incurred during the war, as opposed to the allies who suffered the brunt of the pandemic after the Armistice. When the extent of the epidemic was realized, the respective censorship programs of the Allies and Central Powers limited the public's knowledge regarding the true extent of the disease. Because Spain was neutral, their media was free to report on the Flu, giving the impression that it began there. This misunderstanding led to contemporary reports naming it the \"Spanish flu.\" Investigative work by a British team led by virologist John Oxford of St Bartholomew's Hospital and the Royal London Hospital, identified a major troop staging and hospital camp in Étaples, France as almost certainly being the center of the 1918 flu pandemic. A significant precursor virus was harbored in birds, and mutated to pigs that were kept near the front. The exact number of deaths is unknown but about 50 million people are estimated to have died from the influenza outbreak worldwide. In 2005, a study found that, \"The 1918 virus strain developed in birds and was similar to the 'bird flu' that in the 21st century spurred fears of another worldwide pandemic, yet proved to be a normal treatable virus that did not produce a heavy impact on the world's health.\"\n\nThe dissolution of the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires created a number of new countries in eastern Europe and the Middle East. Some of them, such as Czechoslovakia and Poland, had substantial ethnic minorities who were sometimes not fully satisfied with the new boundaries that cut them off from fellow ethnics. For example, Czechoslovakia had Germans, Poles, Ruthenians and Ukrainians, Slovaks and Hungarians. The League of Nations sponsored various Minority Treaties in an attempt to deal with the problem, but with the decline of the League in the 1930s, these treaties became increasingly unenforceable. One consequence of the massive redrawing of borders and the political changes in the aftermath of the war was the large number of European refugees. These and the refugees of the Russian Civil War led to the creation of the Nansen passport.\n\nEthnic minorities made the location of the frontiers generally unstable. Where the frontiers have remained unchanged since 1918, there has often been the expulsion of an ethnic group, such as the Sudeten Germans. Economic and military cooperation amongst these small states was minimal, ensuring that the defeated powers of Germany and the Soviet Union retained a latent capacity to dominate the region. In the immediate aftermath of the war, defeat drove cooperation between Germany and the Soviet Union but ultimately these two powers would compete to dominate eastern Europe.\n\nGerman and Austrian forces in 1918 defeated the Russian armies, and the new communist government in Moscow signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk in March 1918. In that treaty, Russia renounced all claims to Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine, and the territory of Congress Poland, and it was left to Germany and Austria-Hungary \"to determine the future status of these territories in agreement with their population.\" Later on, Vladimir Lenin's government also renounced the Partition of Poland treaty, making it possible for Poland to claim its 1772 borders. However, the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk was rendered obsolete when Germany was defeated later in 1918, leaving the status of much of eastern Europe in an uncertain position.\n\nA far-left and often explicitly Communist revolutionary wave occurred in several European countries in 1917-1920, notably in Germany and Hungary. The single most important event precipitated by the privations of World War I was the Russian Revolution of 1917.\n\nIn Germany, there was a socialist revolution which led to the brief establishment of a number of communist political systems in (mainly urban) parts of the country, the abdication of Kaiser Wilhelm II, and the creation of the Weimar Republic.\n\nOn 28 June 1919 the Weimar Republic was forced, under threat of continued Allied advance, to sign the Treaty of Versailles. Germany viewed the one-sided treaty as a humiliation and as blaming it for the entire war. While this was not the intent of the treaty, the notion took root in German society and was never accepted by nationalists, although it was argued by some, such as German historian Fritz Fischer. The German government disseminated propaganda to further promote this idea, and funded the Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War to this end.\n\n132 billion gold marks ($31.5 billion, 6.6 billion pounds) were demanded from Germany in reparations, of which only 50 billion had to be paid. In order to finance the purchases of foreign currency required to pay off the reparations, the new German republic printed tremendous amounts of money – to disastrous effect. Hyperinflation plagued Germany between 1921 and 1923. In this period the worth of fiat Papiermarks with respect to the earlier commodity Goldmarks was reduced to one trillionth (one million millionth) of its value. In December 1922 the Reparations Commission declared Germany in default, and on 11 January 1923 French and Belgian troops occupied the Ruhr until 1925.\n\nThe treaty required Germany to permanently reduce the size of its army to 100,000 men, and destroy their tanks, air force, and U-boat fleet (her capital ships, moored at Scapa Flow, were scuttled by their crews to prevent them from falling into Allied hands).\n\nGermany saw relatively small amounts of territory transferred to Denmark, Czechoslovakia, and Belgium, a larger amount to France (including the temporary French occupation of the Rhineland) and the greatest portion as part of a reestablished Poland. Germany's overseas colonies were divided between a number of Allied countries, most notably the United Kingdom in Africa, but it was the loss of the territory that composed the newly independent Polish state, including the German city of Danzig and the separation of East Prussia from the rest of Germany, that caused the greatest outrage. Nazi propaganda would feed on a general German view that the treaty was unfair – many Germans never accepted the treaty as legitimate, and lent their political support to Adolf Hitler.\n\nThe Soviet Union benefited from Germany's loss, as one of the first terms of the armistice was the abrogation of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. At the time of the armistice Russia was in the grips of a civil war which left more than seven million people dead and large areas of the country devastated. The nation as a whole suffered socially and economically. As to her border territories, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia gained independence. They were occupied again by the Soviet Union in 1940. Finland gained a lasting independence, though she repeatedly had to fight the Soviet Union for her borders. Armenia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan were established as independent states in the Caucasus region. These countries were proclaimed as Soviet Republics in 1922 and over time were absorbed into the Soviet Union. During the war, however, Turkey captured the Armenian territory around Artvin, Kars, and Igdir, and these territorial losses became permanent. Romania gained Bessarabia from Russia. The Russian concession in Tianjin was occupied by the Chinese in 1920; in 1924 the Soviet Union renounced its claims to the district.\n\nWith the war having turned decisively against the Central Powers, the people of Austria-Hungary lost faith in their allied countries, and even before the armistice in November, radical nationalism had already led to several declarations of independence in south-central Europe after November 1918. As the central government had ceased to operate in vast areas, these regions found themselves without a government and many new groups attempted to fill the void. During this same period, the population was facing food shortages and was, for the most part, demoralized by the losses incurred during the war. Various political parties, ranging from ardent nationalists, to social democrats, to communists attempted to set up governments in the names of the different nationalities. In other areas, existing nation states such as Romania engaged regions that they considered to be theirs. These moves created de facto governments that complicated life for diplomats, idealists, and the Western allies.\n\nThe Western forces were officially supposed to occupy the old Empire, but rarely had enough troops to do so effectively. They had to deal with local authorities who had their own agenda to fulfill. At the peace conference in Paris the diplomats had to reconcile these authorities with the competing demands of the nationalists who had turned to them for help during the war, the strategic or political desires of the Western allies themselves, and other agendas such as a desire to implement the spirit of the Fourteen Points.\n\nFor example, in order to live up to the ideal of self-determination laid out in the Fourteen Points, Germans, whether Austrian or German, should be able to decide their own future and government. However, the French especially were concerned that an expanded Germany would be a huge security risk. Further complicating the situation, delegations such as the Czechs and Slovenians made strong claims on some German-speaking territories.\n\nThe result was treaties that compromised many ideals, offended many allies, and set up an entirely new order in the area. Many people hoped that the new nation states would allow for a new era of prosperity and peace in the region, free from the bitter quarrelling between nationalities that had marked the preceding fifty years. This hope proved far too optimistic. Changes in territorial configuration after World War I included:\n\n\n\nThese changes were recognized in, but not caused by, the Treaty of Versailles. They were subsequently further elaborated in the Treaty of Saint-Germain and the Treaty of Trianon.\n\nThe 1919 treaties generally included guarantees of minority rights, but there was no enforcement mechanism. The new states of eastern Europe mostly all had large ethnic minorities. Millions of Germans found themselves in the newly created countries as minorities. More than two million ethnic Hungarians found themselves living outside of Hungary in Slovakia, Romania and Yugoslavia. Many of these national minorities found themselves in hostile situations because the modern governments were intent on defining the national character of the countries, often at the expense of the other nationalities. The interwar years were hard for religious minorities in the new states built around ethnic nationalism. The Jews were especially distrusted because of their minority religion and distinct subculture. This was a dramatic come-down from the days of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Although antisemitism had been widespread during Habsburg rule, Jews faced no official discrimination because they were, for the most part, ardent supporters of the multi-national state and the monarchy.\n\nThe economic disruption of the war and the end of the Austro-Hungarian customs union created great hardship in many areas. Although many states were set up as democracies after the war, one by one, with the exception of Czechoslovakia, they reverted to some form of authoritarian rule. Many quarreled amongst themselves but were too weak to compete effectively. Later, when Germany rearmed, the nation states of south-central Europe were unable to resist its attacks, and fell under German domination to a much greater extent than had ever existed in Austria-Hungary.\n\nAt the end of the war, the Allies occupied Constantinople (İstanbul) and the Ottoman government collapsed. The Treaty of Sèvres, a plan designed by the Allies to dismember the remaining Ottoman territories, was signed on 10 August 1920, although it was never ratified by the Sultan.\n\nThe occupation of Smyrna by Greece on 18 May 1919 triggered a nationalist movement to rescind the terms of the treaty. Turkish revolutionaries led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, a successful Ottoman commander, rejected the terms enforced at Sèvres and under the guise of General Inspector of the Ottoman Army, left Istanbul for Samsun to organize the remaining Ottoman forces to resist the terms of the treaty. On the eastern front, the Turkish–Armenian War and signing of the Treaty of Kars with the Russian S.F.S.R. took over territory lost to Armenia and post-Imperial Russia.\n\nOn the western front, the growing strength of the Turkish nationalist forces led Greece, with the backing of Britain, to invade deep into Anatolia in an attempt to deal a blow to the revolutionaries. At the Battle of Dumlupınar, the Greek army was defeated and forced into retreat, leading to the burning of Smyrna and the withdrawal of Greece from Asia Minor. With the nationalists empowered, the army marched on to reclaim Istanbul, resulting in the Chanak Crisis in which the British Prime Minister, David Lloyd George, was forced to resign. After Turkish resistance gained control over Anatolia and Istanbul, the Sèvres treaty was superseded by the Treaty of Lausanne (1923) which formally ended all hostilities and led to the creation of the modern Turkish Republic. As a result, Turkey became the only power of World War I to overturn the terms of its defeat, and negotiate with the Allies as an equal.\n\nLausanne Treaty formally acknowledged the new League of Nations mandates in the Middle East, the cession of their territories on the Arabian Peninsula, and British sovereignty over Cyprus. The League of Nations granted \"Class A\" mandates for the French Mandate of Syria and Lebanon and British Mandate of Mesopotamia and Palestine, the latter comprising two autonomous regions: Mandate Palestine and the Emirate of Transjordan. Parts of the Ottoman Empire on the Arabian Peninsula became part of what is today Saudi Arabia and Yemen. The dissolution of the Ottoman Empire became a pivotal milestone in the creation of the modern Middle East, the result of which bore witness to the creation of new conflicts and hostilities in the region.\n\nIn Britain, funding the war had a severe economic cost. From being the world's largest overseas investor, it became one of its biggest debtors with interest payments forming around 40% of all government spending. Inflation more than doubled between 1914 and its peak in 1920, while the value of the Pound Sterling (consumer expenditure) fell by 61.2%. Reparations in the form of free German coal depressed local industry, precipitating the 1926 General Strike.\n\nBritish private investments abroad were sold, raising £550 million. However, £250 million in new investment also took place during the war. The net financial loss was therefore approximately £300 million; less than two years investment compared to the pre-war average rate and more than replaced by 1928. Material loss was \"slight\": the most significant being 40% of the British merchant fleet sunk by German U-boats. Most of this was replaced in 1918 and all immediately after the war. The military historian Correlli Barnett has argued that \"in objective truth the Great War in no way inflicted crippling economic damage on Britain\" but that the war \"crippled the British \"psychologically\" but in no other way\".\n\nLess concrete changes include the growing assertiveness of Commonwealth nations. Battles such as Gallipoli for Australia and New Zealand, and Vimy Ridge for Canada led to increased national pride and a greater reluctance to remain subordinate to Britain, leading to the growth of diplomatic autonomy in the 1920s. These battles were often decorated in propaganda in these nations as symbolic of their power during the war. Colonies such as the British Raj (India) and Nigeria also became increasingly assertive because of their participation in the war. The populations in these countries became increasingly aware of their own power and Britain's fragility.\nIn Ireland, the delay in finding a resolution to the home rule issue, partly caused by the war, as well as the 1916 Easter Rising and a failed attempt to introduce conscription in Ireland, increased support for separatist radicals. This led indirectly to the outbreak of the Irish War of Independence in 1919. The creation of the Irish Free State that followed this conflict in effect represented a territorial loss for Britain that was all but equal to the loss sustained by Germany, (and furthermore, compared to Germany, a much greater loss in terms of its ratio to the country's prewar territory). Despite this, the Irish Free State remained a dominion within the British Empire.\n\nAfter World War I women gained the right to vote as, during the war, they had had to fill-in for what were previously categorized as \"men's jobs\", thus showing the government that women were not as weak and incompetent as they thought. Also, there were several significant developments in medicine and technology as the injured had to be cared for and there were several new illnesses that medicine had to deal with.\n\nWhile disillusioned by the war, it having not achieved the high ideals promised by President Woodrow Wilson, American commercial interests did finance Europe's rebuilding and reparation efforts in Germany, at least until the onset of the Great Depression. American opinion on the propriety of providing aid to Germans and Austrians was split, as evidenced by an exchange of correspondence between Edgar Gott, an executive with The Boeing Company and Charles Osner, chairman of the Committee for the Relief of Destitute Women and Children in Germany and Austria. Gott argued that relief should first go to citizens of countries that had suffered at the hands of the Central Powers, while Osner made an appeal for a more universal application of humanitarian ideals. The American economic influence allowed the Great Depression to start a domino effect, pulling Europe in as well.\n\nAlsace-Lorraine returned to France, the region which had been ceded to Prussia in 1871 after the Franco-Prussian War. At the 1919 Peace Conference, Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau's aim was to ensure that Germany would not seek revenge in the following years. To this purpose, the chief commander of the Allied forces, Marshal Ferdinand Foch, had demanded that for the future protection of France the Rhine river should now form the border between France and Germany. Based on history, he was convinced that Germany would again become a threat, and, on hearing the terms of the Treaty of Versailles that had left Germany substantially intact, he observed that \"This is not Peace. It is an Armistice for twenty years.\"\n\nThe destruction brought upon French territory was to be indemnified by the reparations negotiated at Versailles. This financial imperative dominated France's foreign policy throughout the 1920s, leading to the 1923 Occupation of the Ruhr in order to force Germany to pay. However, Germany was unable to pay, and obtained support from the United States. Thus, the Dawes Plan was negotiated after Prime Minister Raymond Poincaré's occupation of the Ruhr, and then the Young Plan in 1929.\n\nAlso extremely important in the War was the participation of French colonial troops, including the Senegalese \"tirailleurs\", and troops from Indochina, North Africa, and Madagascar. When these soldiers returned to their homelands and continued to be treated as second class citizens, many became the nuclei of pro-independence groups.\n\nFurthermore, under the state of war declared during the hostilities, the French economy had been somewhat centralized in order to be able to shift into a \"war economy\", leading to a first breach with classical liberalism.\n\nFinally, the socialists' support of the National Union government (including Alexandre Millerand's nomination as Minister of War) marked a shift towards the French Section of the Workers' International's (SFIO) turn towards social democracy and participation in \"bourgeois governments\", although Léon Blum maintained a socialist rhetoric.\n\nIn 1882 Italy joined with the German Empire and the Austro-Hungarian Empire to form the Triple Alliance. However, even if relations with Berlin became very friendly, the alliance with Vienna remained purely formal, as the Italians were keen to acquire Trentino and Trieste, parts of the Austro-Hungarian empire populated by Italians.\n\nDuring World War I Italy aligned with the Allies, instead of joining Germany and Austria. This could happen since the alliance formally had merely defensive prerogatives, while the Central Empires were the ones who started the offensive. With the Treaty of London, Britain secretly offered Italy Trentino and Tyrol as far as Brenner, Trieste and Istria, all the Dalmatian coast except Fiume, full ownership of Albanian Valona and a protectorate over Albania, Antalya in Turkey and a share of the Turkish and German colonial empire, in exchange for Italy siding against the Central Empires.\nAfter the victory, Vittorio Orlando, Italy's President of the Council of Ministers, and Sidney Sonnino, its Foreign Minister, were sent as the Italian representatives to Paris with the aim of gaining the promised territories and as much other land as possible. In particular, there was an especially strong opinion about the status of Fiume, which they believed was rightly Italian due to Italian population, in agreement with Wilson's Fourteen Points, the ninth of which read:\n\"A readjustment of the frontiers of Italy should be effected along clearly recognizable lines of nationality\".\n\nNevertheless, by the end of the war the Allies realized they had made contradictory agreements with other Nations, especially regarding Central Europe and the Middle-East. In the meetings of the \"Big Four\", in which Orlando's powers of diplomacy were inhibited by his lack of English, the Great powers were only willing to offer Trentino to the Brenner, the Dalmatian port of Zara, the island of Lagosta and a couple of small German colonies. All other territories were promised to other nations and the great powers were worried about Italy's imperial ambitions; Wilson, in particular, was a staunch supporter of Yugoslav rights on Dalmatia against Italy and despite the Treaty of London which he did not recognize. As a result of this, Orlando left the conference in a rage. This simply favored Britain and France, which divided among themselves the former Ottoman and German territories in Africa.\n\nIn Italy, the discontent was relevant: Irredentism (see: \"irredentismo\") claimed Fiume and Dalmatia as Italian lands; many felt the Country had taken part in a meaningless war without getting any serious benefits. This idea of a \"mutilated victory\" (\"vittoria mutilata\") was the reason which led to the \"Impresa di Fiume\" (\"Fiume Exploit\"). On September 12, 1919, the nationalist poet Gabriele d'Annunzio led around 2,600 troops from the Royal Italian Army (the Granatieri di Sardegna), nationalists and irredentists, into a seizure of the city, forcing the withdrawal of the inter-Allied (American, British and French) occupying forces.\nThe \"mutilated victory\" (\"vittoria mutilata\") became an important part of Italian Fascism propaganda.\n\nThe Republic of China had been one of the Allies; during the war, it had sent thousands of labourers to France. At the Paris Peace Conference in 1919, the Chinese delegation called for an end to Western imperialistic institutions in China, but was rebuffed. China requested at least the formal restoration of its territory of Jiaozhou Bay, under German colonial control since 1898. But the western Allies rejected China's request, instead granting transfer to Japan of all of Germany's pre-war territory and rights in China. Subsequently, China did not sign the Treaty of Versailles, instead signing a separate peace treaty with Germany in 1921.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian and German concessions in Tianjin were placed under the administration of the Chinese government; in 1920 they occupied the Russian area as well.\n\nThe western Allies' substantial accession to Japan's territorial ambitions at China's expense led to the May Fourth Movement in China, a social and political movement that had profound influence over subsequent Chinese history. The May Fourth Movement is often cited as the birth of Chinese nationalism, and both the Kuomintang and Chinese Communist Party consider the Movement to be an important period in their own histories.\n\nBecause of the treaty that Japan had signed with Great Britain in 1902, Japan was one of the Allies during the war. With British assistance, Japanese forces attacked Germany's territories in Shandong province in China, including the East Asian coaling base of the Imperial German navy. The German forces were defeated and surrendered to Japan in November 1914. The Japanese navy also succeeded in seizing several of Germany's island possessions in the Western Pacific: the Marianas, Carolines, and Marshall Islands.\n\nAt the Paris Peace Conference in 1919, Japan was granted all of Germany's pre-war rights in Shandong province in China (despite China also being one of the Allies during the war): outright possession of the territory of Jiaozhou Bay, and favorable commercial rights throughout the rest of the province, as well as a Mandate over the German Pacific island possessions that the Japanese navy had taken. Also, Japan was granted a permanent seat on the Council of the League of Nations. Nevertheless, the Western powers refused Japan's request for the inclusion of a \"racial equality\" clause as part of the Treaty of Versailles. Shandong reverted to Chinese control in 1922 after mediation by the United States during the Washington Naval Conference. Weihai followed in 1930.\n\n\"Note:\" Countries which only briefly gained independence are not taken up in this list.\n\n\nThe experiences of the war in the west are commonly assumed to have led to a sort of collective national trauma afterward for all of the participating countries. The optimism of 1900 was entirely gone and those who fought became what is known as \"the Lost Generation\" because they never fully recovered from their suffering. For the next few years, much of Europe mourned privately and publicly; memorials were erected in thousands of villages and towns.\n\nSo many British men of marriageable age died or were injured that the students of one girls' school were warned that only 10% would marry. The 1921 United Kingdom Census found 19,803,022 women and 18,082,220 men in England and Wales, a difference of 1.72 million which newspapers called the \"Surplus Two Million\". In the 1921 census there were 1,209 single women aged 25 to 29 for every 1,000 men. In 1931 50% were still single, and 35% of them did not marry while still able to bear children.\n\nAs early as 1923, Stanley Baldwin recognized a new strategic reality that faced Britain in a disarmament speech. Poison gas and the aerial bombing of civilians were new developments of the First World War. The British civilian population, for many centuries, had not had any serious reason to fear invasion. So the new threat of poison gas dropped from enemy bombers excited a grossly exaggerated view of the civilian deaths that would occur on the outbreak of any future war. Baldwin expressed this in his statement that \"The bomber will always get through.\" The traditional British policy of a balance of power in Europe no longer safeguarded the British home population. Out of this fear came appeasement. It is notable that neither Baldwin nor Neville Chamberlain fought in the war, but the anti-appeasers Antony Eden, Harold Macmillan and Winston Churchill did.\n\nOne gruesome reminder of the sacrifices of the generation was the fact that this was one of the first times in international conflict whereby more men died in battle than from disease, which was the main cause of deaths in most previous wars. The Russo-Japanese War was another conflict where battle deaths outnumbered disease deaths, but it was fought on a much smaller scale between just two nations.\n\nThis social trauma made itself manifest in many different ways. Some people were revolted by nationalism and what they believed it had caused, so they began to work toward a more internationalist world through organizations such as the League of Nations. Pacifism became increasingly popular. Others had the opposite reaction, feeling that only military strength could be relied upon for protection in a chaotic and inhumane world that did not respect hypothetical notions of civilization. Certainly a sense of disillusionment and cynicism became pronounced. Nihilism grew in popularity. Many people believed that the war heralded the end of the world as they had known it, including the collapse of capitalism and imperialism. Communist and socialist movements around the world drew strength from this theory, enjoying a level of popularity they had never known before. These feelings were most pronounced in areas directly or particularly harshly affected by the war, such as central Europe, Russia and France.\n\nArtists such as Otto Dix, George Grosz, Ernst Barlach, and Käthe Kollwitz represented their experiences, or those of their society, in blunt paintings and sculpture. Similarly, authors such as Erich Maria Remarque wrote grim novels detailing their experiences. These works had a strong impact on society, causing a great deal of controversy and highlighting conflicting interpretations of the war. In Germany, nationalists including the Nazis believed that much of this work was degenerate and undermined the cohesion of society as well as dishonoring the dead.\nThroughout the areas where trenches and fighting lines were located, such as the Champagne region of France, quantities of unexploded ordnance have remained, some of which remains dangerous, continuing to cause injuries and occasional fatalities in the 21st century. Some are found by farmers ploughing their fields and have been called the iron harvest. Some of this ammunition contains toxic chemical products such as mustard gas. Cleanup of major battlefields is a continuing task with no end in sight for decades to come. Squads remove, defuse or destroy hundreds of tons of unexploded ammunition every year in Belgium, France, and Germany.\n\nMany towns in the participating countries have war memorials dedicated to local residents who lost their lives. Examples include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51717172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51717172", "title": "Aleppo offensive (August–September 2016)", "text": "Aleppo offensive (August–September 2016)\n\nThe Aleppo offensive (August–September 2016) was a Syrian Army counter-offensive launched on the southern outskirts of Aleppo in mid-September 2016. The aim of the offensive was to recapture territory lost due to a rebel offensive earlier in August and besiege the rebel-held part of Aleppo once again.\n\nBetween 11 and 17 August, the Army launched several counter-attacks, primarily against the 1070 Housing Project. During the fighting on 11 August, 29 government and up to 20 rebel fighters were killed. By 17 August, government forces recaptured about 70 percent of the district.\n\nEarly on 14 August, a large rebel attack was launched against the Army-held cement plant, in an attempt to enlarge the four kilometer wide rebel supply line. The assault was repelled after heavy fighting for more than a day, with 35 rebels and 17 soldiers being killed. On the evening of 15 August, the Army and Hezbollah launched a new counter-attack at the 1070 Al-Hamdaniyah Housing Project, and by the next morning finally broke through the first rebel defense line, reportedly securing around 80% of the district.\n\nOn 17 August, after capturing most of the 1070 Al-Hamdaniyah Housing Project, government forces also stormed the Air Force Technical Base of the Al-Assad Military Academy. The former government commander of the base Brig. Gen. Deeb Bazi was killed as he led the assault. Unable to fortify their position in the Air Force Base, the government forces eventually retreated as the rebels launched a counter-attack. The next day, government forces captured the villages of Al-Qarassi, Tal Sanourabat and Al-‘Amariyah in the southern Aleppo countryside. Later that day, however, the rebel forces managed to regain all three villages.\n\nOn 19 August, Republican Guard reinforcements from Damascus arrived in Aleppo for a new assault against the Aleppo Artillery Academy, which began later that day. Meanwhile, government forces, supported by the IRGC and Shia militas, also launched another attack to capture Al-Qarassi, which was considered as the gateway to the strategically significant town of Khan Tuman. In the following night, government forces seized Tal Al-Aqra and thereby cut the Aleppo Artillery Academy's rebel defenders off from their main force. On 20 August, pro-government fighters stormed Al-Qarassi once again.\n\nOn 21 August, government forces captured Umm Qara hill that overlooks the Khan Touman-Ramouseh Road near Al-Qarassi, as well as SyriaTel hill. Between 21 and 24 August, the rebels launched four counter-attacks in an attempt to recapture Umm Qara hill, with all attacks eventually being repelled. Both sides suffered heavy casualties during the fighting, but the rebel's losses were far greater.\n\nOn 22 August, the pro-government forces continued their offensive, taking control of the Al-Ramouseh Roundabout and Bridge, and later on storming the Aleppo Artillery Academy, resulting in a fierce battle with the rebel defenders. Eventually, government troops were pushed back from the Academy. Between 23 and 27 August, the pro-government forces launched several attacks on both the Aleppo Technical College and the 1070 Housing Project; no progress was made at the latter, though government forces managed to gain a foothold inside the college. As the pro-government forces failed to make further advances at the Technical College, they instead concentrated on the nearby, strategically important hill of Tal Sanourbat. The Syrian Army and Hezbollah consequently captured the hill on 30 August, while a Tiger Forces-led attack succeeded in capturing the hilltops of Tal Qarassi, Tal ‘Amarah, Barandeh and Qarassi village. Furthermore, over 120 Russian Naval Infantry soldiers arrived on that day with BMPs in Aleppo, coming as military advisors for the government forces from Latakia.\n\nOn 1 September, pro-government forces stormed the Armament School, resulting in an extremely fierce battle that resulted in heavy casualties for both rebel defenders as well as the government attackers. After three days of fighting, the Tiger Forces, Liwa al-Quds, Hezbollah attacked the Armament School from the north, while Syrian Army units launched simultaneous assault from the south, finally overwhelming the defenders and capturing the whole complex. Thus, government troops reestablished the siege of rebel-held areas of Aleppo.\n\nOn 5 September, rebel frontlines in southern Aleppo collapsed, with pro-government forces overrunning three villages, three hills, two factories, two storage facilities, an Air Defense Base and a quarry. The rebels had also reportedly retreated from the 1070 projects and the Al-Hikma school. However, later, it was reported fighting continued at the 1070 projects, where there were contradictory reports who held most of the district.\n\nOn 6 September, pro-government forces attacked the Ramouseh district, reportedly capturing the Ramouseh Oven and Al-Dabaghat Plant. They also conducted an assault near the town of Khan Touman, capturing the Khan Touman Ammunition depots and some points in outskirts of the town. Over the next two days, the Syrian Army captured the whole Ramouseh district, reopening the Ramouseh Road to supply government-held western Aleppo by 9 September. Meanwhile, an air strike was conducted on a high level meeting of Army of Conquest top commanders near Aleppo, killing several Jabhat Fateh al-Sham leaders, most prominently Abu Hajer Al-Homsi, chief military commander of the group. The rebels initially accused the United States of conducting the strike, but this was denied by the Pentagon and subsequently Russia took responsibility.\n\nOn 10–11 September, the Syrian Army and its allies continued to advance in the 1070 Al-Hamdaniyah Housing Project and the Al-‘Amariyah District. They also continued to target the Hikmah School.\n\nOn 11 September, airstrikes interrupted Eid al-Adha celebrations in rebel-held areas of Aleppo and Idlib. US and Russian officials negotiated a ceasefire hours prior, which was to go into effect later the following day at sundown.\n"}
{"id": "16724400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16724400", "title": "Ali as Caliph", "text": "Ali as Caliph\n\nAli was the caliph between 656 and 661 CE, one of the hardest periods in Muslim history, coinciding with the first Muslim civil war. He reigned over the Rashidun empire which extended from Central Asia in the east to North Africa in the west. He became known as a both just and fair ruler.\n\nAfter the assassination of the third Caliph, Uthman Ibn Affan, at the close of the Siege of Uthman, the selection of a new Caliph \nencountered difficulties. The rebels, comprising Muhajerin, Ansar, Egyptians, Kufans and Basntes, and the Kharijites, were divided between three candidates: Ali, Talhah and Al-Zubayr. First they referred to Ali and asked him to accept the caliphate. Also some Companions of Muhammad tried to persuade him to accept the office. But he refused and answered:'Leave me and seek someone else. We are facing a matter which has (several) faces and colors, which neither hearts can stand nor intelligence can accept. Clouds are hovering over the sky, and faces are not discernible. You should know that if I respond to you I would lead you as I know and would not care about whatever one may say or abuse. If you leave me then I am the same as you are. It is possible I would listen to and obey whomever you make in charge of your affairs. I am better for you as a counselor than as chief.'\n\nThen rebels offered the caliphate to Talhah and Al-Zubayr and some other companions but they refused it too. Therefore, they threatened that, unless the people of Medina choose a caliph within one day, they would be forced to take some drastic action. In order to resolve the deadlock all of the Muslims gathered in Mosque of Prophet on 18 June 656CE. (25th Dhu al-Hijjah 35AH.) to choose the caliph. Ali refused to accept caliphate by the fact that the people who pressed him hardest were the rebels, and he therefore declined at first. When the notable companions of Muhammad as well as people who live in Medina urged him, however, he finally agreed. \nAccording to Abu Mekhnaf's narration Talhah was the first prominent companion who gave his pledge but the other narrations claim they didn't do so or even somebody forced them to do so. However he and Al-Zubayr later claimed they did so reluctantly, but Ali refused this claim and said that they did so voluntarily. Mudelong believe that force was not used to urge people to give their pledge and they pledged in public in the mosque.\nWhile the overwhelming majority of people who lived in Medina as well as rebels gave their pledge, some major figures did not. Umayyads, kins of Uthman, escaped to Levant or remained in their houses and later refused Ali's legitimacy. Sa`ad ibn Abi Waqqas were absent and Abdullah ibn Umar abstained from offering his allegiance but both of them assured Ali that they wouldn't do anything against Ali. \n\nAt the beginning Ali told people that Muslim polity had come to be plagued by dissension and discord and he wanted to purge Islam of all evil from which it had come to suffer. Then warned all concerned that he would tolerate no sedition and all found guilty of subversive activities would be dealt with harshly. He advised people to behave as true Muslims.\n\nBut he soon found that he was helpless and the prisoner of the people who didn't obey him. The caliphate had come to him as the gift of the rebels and he didn't have enough force to control or punish them. When some people asked Ali to punish those who killed Uthman, Ali answered, \"How do I have the power for it while those who assaulted him are in the height of their power. They have superiority over us, not we over them.\" While A'isha, Talhah, Al-Zubayr and Umayyad especially Muawiyah I wanted to take revenge for Uthman's death and punish the rioters who had killed him. However some historians believe that they use this issue to seek their political ambitions due to finding Ali's caliphate against their own benefit.\n\nSoon after Ali became caliph, he dismissed provincial governors who had been appointed by Uthman, and replaced them with trusted aides. He acted against the counsel of Mughrah ibn Shobah and Ibn Abbas, who had advised him to proceed cautiously. Madelung says Ali was deeply convinced of his right and his religious mission, unwilling to compromise his principles for the sake of political expediencey, ready to fight against overwhelming odds. Muawiyah, kinsman of Uthman and governor of Levant refused to submit to Ali's orders - the only governor to do this.\n\nAfter the Battle of Bassorah Ali transferred his capital from Medina to Kufa, the Muslim garrison city in Iraq. Kufa was in the middle of Islamic land and had strategic position.\n\nAli resumed the land which had been granted by Uthman and swore to resume whatever some elites had taken before him. He opposed the centralization of capital control over provincial revenues and favored an equal distribution of taxes and booty among the Muslims; in contrast to Umar he distributed the entire revenue of the divan among Muslims without keeping anything in reserve. When asked to pay more money to elites he said \"Do you command me that I should seek support by oppressing those over whom I have been placed? By Allah, I won't do so as long as the world goes on, and as long as one star leads another in the sky. Even if it were my property, I would have distributed it equally among them, then why not when the property is that of Allah.\"\n\nAli believed that people and governors have rights over each other and God created these rights so as to equate with one another. The greatest of these rights that Allah has made obligatory is the right of the ruler over the ruled and the right of the ruled over the ruler. If the ruled fulfill the rights of the ruler and the ruler fulfills their rights, then right attains the position of honor among them, the ways of religion become established, signs of justice become fixed and the sunnah gains currency. He wrote directions for his officials which clearly show what form of regime he wanted to introduce. It was not to be a regime whose officers had an upper hand and were fattened on public money. It was to be a regime where the governed and the tax-payers were at premium. It was their convenience for which the State was to function. It was a welfare-state working solely for the welfare of the people living under its rule, a regime where the rich cannot get richer while the poor are made poorer; a regime where canons of religion hold the balance between the governed and the ruler. He asked people not to speak with him as they spoke with cruel governors and be honest with him.\n\nAli had decisive beliefs that he shouldn't start a war with other Muslims but when the enemy started it his army wouldn't retreat unless they wanted to attack again. He ordered his soldiers not to kill who would become injured, or not be able to defend himself, or escape from the battlefield and injuries and wanted his warriors not to injure women.\n\nThe First Fitna, 656–661 CE, followed the assassination of the caliph Uthman Ibn Affan, continued during the caliphate of Ali, and was ended, on the whole, by Muawiyah's assumption of the caliphate. This civil war is often called the Fitna, and regretted as the end of the early unity of the Islamic ummah (nation). Ali was first opposed by a faction led by Talhah, Al-Zubayr and Muhammad's wife, Aisha bint Abu Bakr. This group was known as \"disobedients\" (Nakithin) by their enemies. First they gathered in Mecca then moved to Basra with the expectation of finding the necessary forces and resources to mobilize people in what is now Iraq. The rebels occupied Basra, killing many people. When Ali asked them for obedience and a pledge of allegiance, they refused. The two parties met at the Battle of Bassorah (Battle of the Camel) in 656, where Ali emerged victorious.\n\nThen he appointed Ibn Abbas governor of Basra and moved his capital to Kufa. Later he was challenged by Muawiyah I, the governor of Levant and the cousin of Uthman, who refused Ali's demands for allegiance and called for revenge for Uthman. Ali opened negotiations with him with the hope of regaining his allegiance but Muawiyah insisted on Levant autonomy under his rule. Muawiyah replied by mobilizing his Levantn supporters and refusing to pay homage to Ali on the pretext that his contingent had not participated in his election. The two armies encamped themselves at Siffin for more than one hundred days, most of the time being spent in negotiations. Although, Ali exchanged several letters with Muawiyah, he was unable to dismiss the latter, nor persuade him to pledge allegiance. Skirmishes between the parties led to the Battle of Siffin in 657. After a week of combat was followed by a violent battle known as laylat al-harir (the night of clamor) the Muawiyah's army were on the point of being routed when Amr ibn al-Aas advised Muawiyah to have his soldiers hoist mushaf (either parchments inscribed with verses of the Qur'an, or complete copies of it) on their spearheads in order to cause disagreement and confusion in Ali's army.\n\nThe two armies finally agreed to settle the matter of who should be Caliph by arbitration. The refusal of the largest bloc in Ali's army to fight was the decisive factor in his acceptance of the arbitration. The question as to whether the arbiter would represent Ali or the Kufans caused a further split in Ali's army. Ash'ath ibn Qays and some others who later became the Kharijites rejected Ali's nominees, `Abd Allah ibn `Abbas and Malik al-Ashtar, and insisted on Abu Musa Ash'ari, who was opposed by Ali, since he had earlier prevented people from supporting him. Ali was urged to accept Abu Musa but he never did. Those who preferred Abu Musa went decided to continue with the arbitration anyway. The Kharijites (schismatics), later opposed the decision to choose Abu Musa blaming Ali for his appointment and rebelled and Ali had to fight with them in the Battle of Nahrawan. The arbitration resulted in the dissolution of Ali's coalition and some have opined that this was Muawiyah's intention.\n\nMuawiyah's army invaded and plundered cities, which Ali's governors couldn't prevent and people didn't support him to fight with them. Muawiyah overpowered Egypt, Yemen and other areas.\n\nThis civil war created permanent divisions within the Muslim community and Muslims were divided over who had the legitimate right to occupy the caliphate.\n\nOn the nineteenth of Ramadan, while Ali was praying in the mosque of Kufa, the Kharijite Abd-al-Rahman ibn Muljam assassinated him with a strike of his poison-coated sword. Ali, wounded by the poisonous sword, lived for two days and died on the 21st of Ramadan in the city of Kufa in 661 CE.\n\nAli ordered his sons not to kill a group of people. Since the act was performed by a single member of Kharijite group and not all of them, they had to revenge just the murderer. Thus later Hasan fulfilled Qisas and killed ibn Muljam.\n\nIn these two days he dictated his will to his household \"My advice to you is that you should not consider anyone as a co-worker of the Lord, be firm in your belief that there is One and only One Allah. Do not waste the knowledge given to you by the Muhammad and do not give up and destroy his Sunnah [traditions]. Keep these two pillars of Islam [monotheism and Sunnah of the Muhammad] aloft. If you act according to my advice then you cannot be blamed for damaging or destroying the religion.\" \n\nBecause Ali did not want his grave to be desecrated by his enemies, he asked his friends and family members to bury him secretly. This secret gravesite is supposed to have been revealed later during the Abbasid caliphate by Ja'far al-Sadiq, the sixth Shia Imam. Most Shi'as accept that Ali was buried at the Tomb of Imam Ali in the Imam Ali Mosque at what is now the city of Najaf, which grew around the mosque and shrine called Masjid Ali.\n\nHowever another story, usually maintained by Afghans, notes that his body was taken and buried in the Afghan city of Mazari Sharif at the famous Blue Mosque or Rawze-e-Sharif.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4026749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4026749", "title": "Archaeological Museum of Alicante", "text": "Archaeological Museum of Alicante\n\nThe Archaeological Museum of Alicante (, , abbreviated as \"MARQ\") is an archaeological museum in Alicante, Spain. The museum won the European Museum of the Year Award in 2004, a few years after significant expansion and reallocation to renovated buildings of the antique hospital of San Juan de Dios. The museum houses eight galleries that use multimedia to allow visitors to interact with the lives of past residents of the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19854884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19854884", "title": "Battle of Los Angeles (professional wrestling)", "text": "Battle of Los Angeles (professional wrestling)\n\nThe Battle of Los Angeles tournament (the BOLA) is an annual independent wrestling tournament in North America, run and promoted by Pro Wrestling Guerrilla. Over the years, the tournament has attracted numerous famous independent wrestlers from A.J. Styles and Christopher Daniels to Bryan Danielson and Kenny Omega.\n\nIn the first year of the Battle of Los Angeles there were sixteen participants, with eight opening round matches, four quarterfinal matches, two semifinal matches, and a final. In 2006 the tournament was expanded to 24 participants, which caused the addition of another eight person bracket and created three semifinals matches and an elimination three-way final match. In 2008 the tournament returned to its 16-man format. In 2011, the tournament was completely revamped, taking place for the first time as a one night tournament with only eight participants. Since 2014, the tournament has reverted to a 24-man format held over three nights. The first two nights are all first-round matches, while the third night contains the quarter- and semi-finals before culminating in a three-way match for the championship. All nights also feature non-tournament special attractions, which are usually tag-team matches involving tournament participants from other nights or eliminated wrestlers.\n\n\nThe first annual Battle of Los Angeles was held on September 3 and 4, 2005, in Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe 2006 BOLA was held on September 1, September 2 and September 3, 2006 in Reseda, California. The tournament saw the PWG returns of The Briscoe Brothers, after no-showing a number of events, and Super Dragon, who had been injured by the Dynasty earlier in the year.\n\nAlex Koslov was originally scheduled to take part in the tournament, but was replaced by Austin Aries, after going on a six-month learning excursion to Mexico. After no-showing \"Threemendous\" a month earlier, Jay and Mark Briscoe were taken out of the tournament and replaced by Bryan Danielson and Dragon Kid, respectively. However, Danielson separated his shoulder on August 26 in a Ring of Honor match against Colt Cabana and was therefore taken out of the tournament and replaced by Disco Machine.\n\nThe 2006 BOLA saw the introduction of wrestlers from Dragon Gate, which was represented by three regulars (Cima, Genki Horiguchi and Dragon Kid), and finished the tournament with a combined 5-3 record.\n\nFinals: Davey Richards defeated Cima‡ via pinfall in 13:42 to win the 2006 BOLA\n\n† = Kazarian was attacked by the Dynasty allowing Super Dragon to get a bye to the next round<br>\n‡ = Super Dragon was attacked backstage by the Dynasty before his final match taking him out of the tournament\n\nThe 2007 BOLA was held on August 31, September 1 and September 2, 2007 in Burbank, California. The event suffered many losses leading up to it including PWG World Champion Bryan Danielson suffering an eye injury, former World Champion Super Dragon pulling himself from the event and former BOLA winner Chris Bosh announcing his retirement out of nowhere. They were replaced by TNA wrestler Alex Shelley, local worker Tony Kozina and the Necro Butcher. At \"Giant-Size Annual #4\" the month before the event Austin Aries defeated Rocky Romero to take his spot in BOLA.\n\nFinals: Cima defeated Roderick Strong and El Generico in an elimination three-way match at 13:17 to win the 2007 BOLA\n\nThe fourth annual BOLA was held on November 1 and November 2, 2008 in Burbank, California. The tournament was set to follow the 24 man format of the previous two and take place on the weekend of August 30 and 31, but PWG management was unable to book the talent they wished to for the event and decided to move the event and drop the entrants down to 16. On October 16 PWG announced that 17 participants will be in the tournament, this occurred because the two PWG commissioners (Excalibur and Dino Winwood) couldn't come to a conclusion on who would be the final entrant, which led to one first round match being a three-way dance.\n\n† = This was a No Disqualification match\n\nThe fifth annual BOLA was held on November 20 and November 21, 2009, in Reseda, California. Due to Bryan Danielson winning the PWG World Championship in his farewell match and afterwards vacating it, this year's would also become the new World Champion. The first round of the tournament consisted of eight one-on-one matches between 16 wrestlers. Local newcomers Brandon Gatson and Jerome Robinson earned their spots in the tournament by winning separate four-way matches at PWG's \"Against the Grain\" on October 2. Chris Sabin was scheduled to take part in the tournament, but was forced to pull out due to a neck injury. He was replaced by another local newcomer Johnny Goodtime.\n\nThe sixth annual BOLA was held on September 4 and 5, 2010, in Reseda, California. The tournament included 18 participants, up from previous two years.\n\nThe seventh annual BOLA took place on August 20, 2011, in Reseda, California. For the first time, the entire tournament was held over one night with only eight participants.\n\nThe eighth annual BOLA took place on September 1 and 2, 2012, in Reseda, California. Initially, on July 22, the tournament was announced as taking place in one night with twelve participants, however, the following day it was expanded to two nights with four more wrestlers added, when another event scheduled for the Reseda venue was cancelled.\n\nThe ninth annual BOLA took place on August 30 and 31, 2013, in Reseda, California. Davey Richards was originally announced for the tournament, but later pulled out.\n\nThe tenth annual BOLA took place on August 29, 30 and 31, 2014, in Reseda, California. Taking place over three nights for the first time in seven years, the tournament featured 24 participants. AR Fox and Trent? were originally announced for the tournament, but on August 6 PWG announced that they would have to pull out due to injuries. They were replaced by Bobby Fish and Candice LeRae, respectively. On the first day of the tournament, it was announced T.J. Perkins would be replacing an injured Brian Cage.\n\nFinals: Ricochet defeated Johnny Gargano and Roderick Strong via pinfall at 14:41 to win the 2014 BOLA\n\nThe eleventh annual BOLA took place on August 28, 29 and 30, 2015, in Reseda, California.\n\nFinals: Zack Sabre Jr. defeated Chris Hero and Mike Bailey in an elimination three-way match at 35:54 to win the 2015 BOLA\n\nThe twelfth annual BOLA took place on September 2, 3 and 4, 2016, in Reseda, California. Adam Cole was originally announced for the tournament, but he later removed himself and was replaced by Cedric Alexander. Jack Gallagher was originally announced for the tournament, but could not make the show due to travel issues and was replaced by Tommaso Ciampa.\n\nFinals: Marty Scurll defeated Trevor Lee and Will Ospreay in an elimination three-way match at 29:15 to win the 2016 BOLA\n\nThe thirteenth annual BOLA took place on September 1, 2 and 3, 2017, in Reseda, California. TK Cooper was originally annouced for the tournament, but had to pull out due to an injury and was replaced by Joey Janela. Ricochet became the first person to win the Battle of Los Angeles twice.\n\nFinals: Ricochet defeated Jeff Cobb and Keith Lee in an elimination three-way match at 19:00 to win the 2017 BOLA\n\nThe fourteenth annual BOLA tournament took place on September 14,15, and 16 from the Globe Theatre in Los Angeles, CA. Originally, Matthew Riddle was announced as a participant, but he was replaced by Trevor Lee. Travis Banks was also a participant, but he was pulled off due to an injury and was replaced by Sammy Guevara. Chris Brookes would also be pulled from the tournament due to an injury and was replaced by Marko Stunt.\n\nFinals: Jeff Cobb defeated Bandido and Shingo Takagi in an elimination three-way match at 24:04 to win the 2018 BOLA\n\n"}
{"id": "7018788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7018788", "title": "Battle of Peonnum", "text": "Battle of Peonnum\n\nThe Battle of Peonnum was fought about AD 660 between the West Saxons under Cenwalh and the Britons of what is now Somerset in England. It was a decisive victory for the Saxons, who gained control of Somerset as far west as the River Parrett. The location of the battle is uncertain.\n\nThe border between the West Saxons and the Britons of Somerset had been set at the Wansdyke along the ridge of the Mendip Hills following the Battle of Deorham and the Saxon occupation of Bath in 577. Then, in 652, Cenwalh broke through at the Battle of Bradford on Avon.\n\nRelief for the Britons came when Cenwalh was exiled to East Anglia after a squabble with Penda of Mercia. Some time after his return he renewed the attack on the British tribes and in 658 his army met the Britons for a climactic battle at Peonnum. The Saxons were victorious, and Cenwalh advanced west through the Polden Hills to the River Parrett, annexing eastern and central Somerset. The territory gained was modest in size; Geoffrey Ashe suggests that Cenwalh's ultimate goal may have been gaining control over the valuable Glastonbury Abbey within it.\n\nThe border remained at the Parrett until 681–685, when Centwine of Wessex defeated King Cadwaladr of Gwynedd and his local allies, allowing them to occupy the rest of Somerset west and north to the Bristol Channel. West Saxon rule was consolidated and extended into Devon by King Ina.\n\nThe battle is said to have happened \"æt peonnum\", which means \"at the \"penns\"\". \"Penn\" is the Brittonic Celtic word for \"head\" or \"top\", which here is likely used for \"hill\" or \"peak\". Suggested locations include Penselwood (\"Pen Selwood\"), near Wincanton which is called \"Penna\" in the Domesday Book, Pinhoe or Pen Beacon in Devon, and Penn (near Yeovil).\nNote that the highest point of the Mendip Hills is named Pen Hill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "462946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462946", "title": "Broadcast.com", "text": "Broadcast.com\n\nBroadcast.com was an Internet radio company founded as AudioNet in September 1995 by Christopher Jaeb. Todd Wagner and Mark Cuban later led the organization and eventually sold to Yahoo! on April 1, 1999 for $5.7 billion, making it the most expensive acquisition Yahoo! has made. The service has since been discontinued.\n\nThe company was founded in 1989 as Cameron Audio Networks, named after its founder Cameron Christopher Jaeb, who received an initial investment from his father. Jaeb wanted a method for people to be able to listen to out of town sports games. The original idea, a shortwave radio that would receive broadcasts inside a sports venue, morphed into a hand-held device that would receive customized satellite broadcasts. With the support of his father Tom Jaeb, he incorporated.\n\nJaeb then began soliciting the rights to broadcast radio and professional sports games live on the Internet, making 80-100 calls per day.\n\nIn 1994, through a class that his girlfriend was taking, Jaeb was introduced to Todd Wagner, an attorney at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld. Wagner introduced Jaeb to Mark Cuban, who invested $10,000 in exchange for 2% of the company. Cuban wanted to listen to the basketball games of his alma mater, Indiana University. Cuban and Wagner worked out a deal whereby Jaeb would keep 10% of the company and would get a monthly salary of $2,500 but Cuban would take control of the company. The company was renamed AudioNet.com in September 1995 in conjunction with the reorganization. At first Cuban picked up signals from KLIF (AM) in his bedroom and then streamed them on the internet. The company grew from mainly broadcasting sporting events to broadcasting U.S. presidential nominating conventions and many other events.\n\nIn 1998, AudioNet was renamed to Broadcast.com and in July 1998, the company became a public company via an initial public offering. The stock price soared 250% on its first day of trading, a record for a newly issued public stock. After the IPO, the company was worth $1 billion, Mark Cuban was worth $300 million, and Todd Wagner was worth $170 million.\n\nOn April 1, 1999, less than 9 months after the IPO, Yahoo! announced the acquisition of broadcast.com for $5.7 billion in stock. At the time, broadcast.com had 570,000 users, and the purchase price was $10,000 per user. Cuban sold most of his Yahoo stock that same year, netting over $1 billion. Founder Chris Jaeb, whose stake was diluted to less than 1% of the company, received approximately $50 million from the sale.\n\nThe service became a part of Yahoo! Broadcast Services.\n\nYahoo shut down much of its broadcast services in 2002 and broadcast.com has since been discontinued.\n\n"}
{"id": "47740549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47740549", "title": "Burlington Industries, Inc. v. Ellerth", "text": "Burlington Industries, Inc. v. Ellerth\n\nBurlington Industries, Inc. v. Ellerth, 524 US 742 (1998) is a landmark employment law case of the United States Supreme Court holding that employers are liable if supervisors create a hostile work environment for employees. \"Ellerth\" also introduced a two-part affirmative defense allowing employers to avoid sex discrimination liability if they follow best practices. \"Ellerth\" is often considered alongside \"Faragher\".\n\nKimberly Ellerth, a female employee at Burlington Industries, sued the company for sexual harassment on the part of her male supervisor. She alleged the vice president of sales made offensive remarks and unwanted overtures. She identified three episodes involving threats to deny tangible job benefits unless sexual favors were granted. She alleged a violation of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The lower court dismissed her claim, noting that she had suffered no actual negative job consequences. The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the lower court decision, but issued 8 separate opinions. \n\nEllerth is most referenced for its two-part affirmative defense for supervisor sexual harassment. In the case, a supervisor is defined by the ability to take a Tangible Employment Action. A Tangible Employment Action makes the company vicariously liable because the agency relationship was used to take the action. In alleged sex discrimination cases without a Tangible Employment Action, employers may prove that: \n\n\nGenerally, having an effective sexual harassment policy that is used and works is sufficient to satisfy the first prong. Further cases (see \"EEOC v. Racine\") examine whether an employee's failure to take advantage of the policy was unreasonable, but \"Ellerth\" holds that when the policy requires reporting to a harasser, it is not unreasonable to fail to do so. (Ellerth would have been required to report to her harasser.)\n\nIn a 7–2 decision, the Supreme Court ruled in her favor. Justice Anthony Kennedy said that Congress had left it to the courts to determine the controlling principles. This majority ruling was summarized as follows:\n\nUnder Title VII, an employee who refuses the unwelcome and threatening sexual advances of a supervisor, yet suffers no adverse, tangible job consequences, may recover against the employer without showing the employer is negligent or otherwise at fault for the supervisor's actions, but the employer may interpose an affirmative defense.\n\nJustice Kennedy wrote the majority opinion, joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist, Justice Stevens, Justice O'Connor, Justice Souter, and Justice Breyer. Justice Ginsburg wrote a concurring opinion. \n\nJustice Thomas wrote a dissenting opinion, joined by Justice Scalia.\n\n"}
{"id": "31292386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31292386", "title": "Chattam", "text": "Chattam\n\nChattam (English: Law) is a 2011 action Telugu film produced by Natti Kumar & Tummalapalli Rama Satyanarayana on Vishaka Talkies banner and directed by P. A. Arun Prasad. Starring Jagapathi Babu, Vimala Raman in lead roles and music composed by M. M. Srilekha. The film recorded as \"flop\" at box office.\n\nGauri Shankar (Jagapathi Babu) is a circle inspector of Punjagutta and is known as a heavy corrupt police officer. Rangarao (Jeeva) is his assistant and his daughter Sindhu (Vimala Raman) is an aerobics, teacher. Once, two sons of a big industrialist (Prasad Babu) kill two girls for not accepting their love by pouring acid on them. Soon, the two get killed by some unidentified person in the same fashion. The industrialist uses his political influence and gets the case investigated by the CB-CID. The police commissioner (Chalapathi Rao) calls Gowri and tells him to hand over all the evidence to the CB-CID officer, SP Sarath Chandra (Murali Sharma). Even as the CID officer is investigating, another two persons get murdered in the same fashion. The CID officer makes an in-depth study into the case and finally comes to the conclusion that it is Gowri, who is behind these murders. At this juncture, Gowri leaves for Mumbai and kills some gangsters who were kidnapping and selling young girls and exporting them to other countries. After he kills all the gangsters, the Mumbai police arrest him and keeps him in a jail, where an international terrorist Kasab from Pakistan was placed. The CBI officer gets a doubt and warns the jailer that Gowri intentionally surrendered to the police as he wanted to kill Kasab. What happens next should be seen on-screen.\n"}
{"id": "8532112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8532112", "title": "Criminal damage in English law", "text": "Criminal damage in English law\n\nIn English law, causing criminal damage was originally a common law offence. The offence was largely concerned with the protection of dwellings and the food supply, and few sanctions were imposed for damaging personal property. Liability was originally restricted to the payment of damages by way of compensation.\n\nAs time passed, specific laws were introduced to deal with particular situations as they were judged to require intervention, most particularly alongside the rise of mechanisation and urbanisation during the Industrial Revolution.\n\nThe modern law of criminal damage is mostly contained in the Criminal Damage Act 1971, which redefines or creates several offences protecting property rights. The Act provides a comprehensive structure covering merely preparatory acts to the most serious offences of arson and causing damage with intent to endanger life. As such, punishments vary from a fixed penalty to life imprisonment, and the court may order payment of compensation to a victim.\n\nThe common law generally treated damage to another's chattels as a civil matter leading only to a right to damages in trespass or nuisance; in the 18th century, Blackstone stated: \"The rights of personal property in possession are liable to two species of injuries: the amotion [carrying away] or deprivation of that possession; and the abuse or damage of the chattels, while the possession continues in the legal owner.\" Blackstone clearly labelled these as \"Private Wrongs\" in his commentaries, emphasising that property rights were enforced \"inter partes\", and that the State was not necessarily one of the involved parties. In fact, the criminal law only intervened in the case of arson, defining it as \"the malicious and wilful burning of the house or outhouses of another man\". This protection extended to barns and even \"stacks of corn\". Arson traditionally attracted the death penalty, and had done so in Roman law.\n\nWhereas the common law protected habitation and sources of wealth and food in a largely agricultural society, the Industrial Revolution, especially the Luddism resulting from workers' perceived threats to their livelihood, required new legislation to match the circumstances. The reaction of Parliament to Luddism was to criminalise \"machine-breaking\" – the destruction of textile-making machinery – as early as 1721. Initially the punishment was transportation to the Colonies but as a result of continued opposition to mechanisation the Frame-Breaking Act of 1812 made the death penalty available.\n\nA number of statutory provisions creating offences of damaging specific types of property were consolidated by 7 & 8 Geo.4 c.30 (1827) (Malicious injuries to property) which was one of Peel's Acts. This Act and a number of subsequent statutes were consolidated by the Malicious Damage Act 1861.\n\nThe Malicious Damage Act 1861 was a Victorian consolidation statute which set out detailed protections of property, most of which have now been superseded by the Criminal Damage Act 1971. The remaining provisions applicable in England and Wales are:\n\n\nWhereas the 1861 Act protected in detail many different types of property, the Criminal Damage Act 1971 provided a definition wide enough to apply to any tangible property. By section 1(1) of the Act:\n\nApart from the general self-defence excuse applicable to any offence involving violent acts, section 5 of the Act sets out specific provisions in relation to criminal damage: a defendant will have \"lawful excuse\" if\n\nSection 5(3) of the Act states that it is immaterial whether the defendant's belief is justified as long as it is an honest belief, and therefore creates a subjective test to be assessed by the court or jury. In \"Chamberlain v. Lindon\" (1998), Lindon demolished a wall to protect a right of way, honestly believing that it was a reasonable means of avoiding litigation. It was said that:\n\nHowever, in \"R v Hill and Hall\" (1989), the Court of Appeal introduced an objective element to part (b) of the defence. The defendants had been convicted of possession of a hacksaw blade outside a US naval base in Wales, having admitted an intention to use the blade to cut through the base's perimeter fence. They claimed a lawful excuse in that they had acted to protect their own property located near the base; their reasoning was that the base would at some point in the future attract a nuclear attack by the Soviet Union. Given that Hill was \"forced to admit that she did not expect a nuclear bomb to fall today or tomorrow\", the Court concluded that this threat to property was too remote and thus the defence had not been made out, however honest the belief had been.\n\nThe case of \"Jaggard v Dickinson\" (1980) held that even a drunken belief will support the defence even though this allows drunkenness to negate basic intent; and \"Lloyd v DPP\" (1992) ruled that a motorist who damages a wheel clamp to free his car, having parked on another's property knowing of the risk of being clamped, does not have a lawful excuse under the Act even if he makes a mistake of law.\n\nThe courts have said that a defendant relying upon lawful excuse as a defence need not necessarily seek to put himself within section 5. In \"R v Denton\" (1981), the defendant had been asked by his employer to set fire to the employer's factory to facilitate an insurance claim. Despite this, it was held that the owner of the factory was entitled to have it burned down – as the Lord Chief Justice put it, \"[i]t is not an offence for a man to set light to his own ... property\" – and therefore Denton, knowing this, had a lawful excuse independent of section 5.\n\nWhether destruction or damage has occurred is an issue of fact and degree in each case and case law suggests that damage must be more than \"de minimis\". In \"A (a juvenile) v R\" (1978), the defendant spat on a police officer's raincoat, which was easily wiped clean; it was held that this did not amount to damage within the 1971 Act. Similarly, in \"Morphitis v Salmon\" (1990), a scratch to a scaffolding pole did not affect its value or usefulness and thus damage had not been proved. The court said:\n\nA different conclusion was reached in \"Hardman v Chief Constable of Avon and Somerset Constabulary\" (1986), where graffiti, although eventually removable by action of rainfall, was actually washed away by the local authority, incurring expense, was held to be criminal damage.\n\nIt is sufficient that any damage be merely temporary: in \"Cox v Riley\" (1986), the deletion of the program from a computer-controlled machine, rendering it unusable, was held to constitute damage. This decision was followed in \"R v. Whiteley\" (1991) in relation to computer hacking, although that conduct is now dealt with under the Computer Misuse Act 1990. In that case it was said that:\n\nIn \"R v Fiak\" (2005), the defendant used a clean blanket to block the toilet of the police cell he was occupying, causing the water to overflow and flood his and other cells. The defence argued that clean water had flooded on to a waterproof floor, and that in the process the blanket was soaked by clean water. The blanket would have been reusable when dry. Cleaning up a wet cell floor did not constitute damage to the cell itself. The Court of Appeal noted that this argument assumed the absence of any possible contamination or infection from the lavatory itself, and held that while it is true that the effect of the appellant's actions in relation to the blanket and the cell were both remediable, the simple reality was that the blanket could not be used as a blanket by any other prisoner until it had been dried out and cleaned. Further, the flooded cells remained out of action until the water had been cleared. Thus, both had sustained damage, albeit temporary.\n\nThe definition of property in the 1971 Act differs slightly from the Theft Act 1968 in that it only includes \"property of a tangible nature\". Land can be damaged, as in \"Henderson and Batley\" (1984), where the defendants had dumped rubble on a development site which cost a substantial sum to clear; it was held that this constituted damage to the land.\n\nSection 10(2) of the Act specifies that property shall be regarded as belonging to any person —\n\nThese provisions are similar to those set out in section 5 of the Theft Act 1968 in relation to theft. It is clearly a right of property ownership to deal with property as one wishes, including its damage or destruction. However a person setting fire to his own house which is subject to a mortgage can be charged because the mortgagee will have a proprietary right or interest in the property. Property that is abandoned has no owner, and cannot be stolen; it follows that such property cannot be the subject of a charge of criminal damage.\n\nThe \"mens rea\" of all offences in the Act is direct or oblique intention, or subjective recklessness as defined by the House of Lords in \"R v G\" (2003). Bingham L.J. stated that a person acts \"recklessly\" with respect to\n\nand it is, in the circumstances known to him, unreasonable to take the risk. In \"Booth v. Crown Prosecution Service\" (2006) the Divisional Court upheld the defendant pedestrian's conviction on a charge that, by rashly dashing into the road, he recklessly damaged the vehicle that hit him because \"the appellant was aware of the risk and closed his mind to it\".\n\nSection 1(2) of the Act creates an offence which includes all the elements of the section 1(1) offence with an additional element of intending or being reckless as to the endangering of life. The offence lies in possible effects of the defendant's actions and it is not therefore necessary to prove an actual danger to life. However, there must be a connection between the damage and the mental state of the defendant. In \"R v Steer\" (1986), the defendant fired a gun intending to injure another person, but missed and hit a window instead; it was held that although the intention to endanger life and the fact of damage coexisted, the damage itself did not endanger life. This approach was extended in \"R v Webster\" (1995), in which the relationship between the damage \"caused\" and the damage \"intended\" was explored. That case involved the throwing of heavy items into the paths of moving vehicles, and it was held that a defendant may be guilty if he intends to endanger life by the actual damage intended, or is reckless that life will be endangered by that damage. Therefore, although a defendant does not necessarily intend to endanger life when he intends to break a car window, ignoring the likely risk that this will cause the driver to swerve into the path of another vehicle, perhaps fatally, constitutes recklessness and is a sufficient causative nexus.\n\nProof of specific intent to endanger life is unnecessary on a charge of attempting this offence. In \"Attorney General's Reference No. 3 of 1992\" (1994), on a charge of attempted aggravated arson, it was held to be sufficient for the prosecution to establish a specific intent to cause damage by fire and that the defendant was reckless as to whether life would thereby be endangered.\n\nSection 1(3) of the 1971 Act specifies that offences under section 1, where the destruction or damage is caused by fire, shall be charged as arson. It would seem that courts adopt a purposive view in relation to the lawful excuse defence in relation to arson, as in \"R v Hunt\" (1977). The defendant, wishing to highlight the lack of fire defences in an old people's home, set fire to it to demonstrate the risks. He claimed an honest belief in that by doing this, he had a lawful excuse within section 5(2). It was held, however, that he had not actually been acting so as to protect property. Although the court assumed that his belief was honest, it ruled that his intention was to draw attention to faulty fire defences rather than to defend the property itself.\n\nSection 2 provides that a person threatening another, with the intent that the other\nwould fear the threat would be carried out\n\nshall be guilty of an offence.\n\nSection 3 provides that a person who has anything in his custody or under his control intending without lawful excuse to use it or cause or permit another to use it\n\nshall be guilty of an offence.\n\nAs to the mens rea for an offence under section 3(a), see \"R v Buckingham\", 63 Cr App R 159, CA.\n\nThe 1971 Act applies in England and Wales, and also to Northern Ireland by the Criminal Damage (Northern Ireland) Order 1977.\n\nCertain types of minor damage, such as graffiti, may be dealt with by the issue of fixed penalty notices as an alternative to prosecution.\n\nNon-aggravated offences involving damage valued at less than £5,000 are triable only summarily by magistrates and the maximum sentence is three months' imprisonment and a fine of £2,500. If the value of the property damaged exceeds £5,000, the defendant is entitled to claim trial on indictment by a jury, but if tried summarily, may be sentenced to up to six months in jail and a £5,000 fine. Where the value of the property is unclear, the court may hear representations as to value, but may also offer the defendant the option of summary trial, with limited penalties.\n\nSection 4 of the 1971 Act sets out that offences under sections 1(2) and 1(3) are punishable by a maximum term of life imprisonment and all others by a maximum of ten years' imprisonment. Section 30 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 sets out a higher maximum of 14 years' imprisonment for racially or religiously aggravated offences other than those already carrying a maximum of life imprisonment.\n\nCourts are empowered by sections 130 to 133 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 to order payment of compensation by a convicted defendant. The limit is £5,000 per offence in a magistrates' court; the powers of the Crown Court are unlimited.\n\nThe Criminal Damage Act 1971 repealed the Dockyards, etc. Protection Act 1772, which created the capital offences commonly known collectively as \"arson in royal dockyards\"; these had been overlooked when the death penalty for murder was abolished in 1965.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14437519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14437519", "title": "Critical system", "text": "Critical system\n\nA critical system is a system which must be highly reliable and retain this reliability as they evolve without incurring prohibitive costs.\n\nThere are four types of critical systems: safety critical, mission critical, business critical and security critical.\n\nFor such systems, trusted methods and techniques must be used for development. Consequently, critical systems are usually developed using well-tested techniques rather than newer techniques that have not been subject to extensive practical experience. Developers of critical systems are naturally conservative, preferring to use older techniques whose strengths and weaknesses are understood, rather than new techniques which may appear to be better, but whose long-term problems are unknown.\n\nExpensive software engineering techniques that are not cost-effective for non-critical systems may sometimes be used for critical systems development. For example, formal mathematical methods of software development have been successfully used for safety and security critical systems. One reason why these formal methods are used is that it helps reduce the amount of testing required. For critical systems, the costs of verification and validation are usually very high—more than 50% of the total system development costs.\n\nA critical system is distinguished by the consequences associated with system or function failure. Likewise, critical systems are further distinguished between fail-operational and fail safe systems, according to the tolerance they must exhibit to failures:\n\n\"Safety critical\" systems deal with scenarios that may lead to loss of life, serious personal injury, or damage to the natural environment. Examples of safety-critical systems are a control system for a chemical manufacturing plant, aircraft, the controller of an unmanned train metro system, a controller of a nuclear plant, etc.\n\n\"Mission critical\" systems are made to avoid inability to complete the overall system, project objectives or one of the goals for which the system was designed. Examples of mission-critical systems are a navigational system for a spacecraft, software controlling a baggage handling system of an airport, etc.\n\n\"Business critical\" systems are programmed to avoid significant tangible or intangible economic costs; e.g., loss of business or damage to reputation. This is often due to the interruption of service caused by the system being unusable. Examples of a business-critical systems are the customer accounting system in a bank, stock-trading system, ERP system of a company, Internet search engine, etc.\n\n\"Security critical\" systems deal with the loss of sensitive data through theft or accidental loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "586699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586699", "title": "Darwin Medal", "text": "Darwin Medal\n\nThe Darwin Medal is awarded by the Royal Society every alternate year for \"work of acknowledged distinction in the broad area of biology in which Charles Darwin worked, notably in evolution, population biology, organismal biology and biological diversity\". First awarded in 1890, it was created in memory of Charles Darwin and is presented with a £2000 prize (as of 2016).\n\nAs with most of the Royal Society's medals, the award is open for candidates from the Commonwealth of Nations or of the Republic of Ireland, with the requirement that they be either a citizen of such a nation or have lived in such a nation for at least three years before the nomination. \n\nSince its creation the medal has been awarded over 60 times, the recipients including Francis Darwin, Charles Darwin's son, and two married couples, Jack and Yolande Heslop-Harrison in 1982 and Peter and Rosemary Grant in 2002. The medal was first awarded to Alfred Russel Wallace, a noted biologist and naturalist who had independently developed the Theory of Evolution by Natural Selection.\n\nSource: Royal Society\n\n"}
{"id": "391974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391974", "title": "Edinburgh Festival Fringe", "text": "Edinburgh Festival Fringe\n\nThe Edinburgh Festival Fringe (often referred to as simply The Fringe or Edinburgh Festival) is the world's largest arts festival, which in 2018 spanned 25 days and featured more than 55,000 performances of 3,548 different shows in 317 venues. Established in 1947 as an alternative to the Edinburgh International Festival, it takes place annually in Edinburgh, Scotland, in the month of August.\n\nIt is an open access (or \"unjuried\") performing arts festival, meaning there is no selection committee, and anyone may participate, with any type of performance. The official Fringe Programme categorises shows into sections for theatre, comedy, dance, physical theatre, circus, cabaret, children's shows, musicals, opera, music, spoken word, exhibitions and events. Comedy is the largest section, making up over one-third of the programme and the one that in modern times has the highest public profile, due in part to the Edinburgh Comedy Awards.\n\nThe Festival is supported by the Festival Fringe Society, which publishes the programme, sells tickets to all events from a central physical box office and website, and offers year-round advice and support to performers. The Society's permanent location is at the Fringe Shop on the Royal Mile, and in August they also manage Fringe Central, a separate collection of spaces in Appleton Tower and other University of Edinburgh buildings, dedicated to providing support for Fringe participants during their time at the festival.\n\nThe Fringe board of directors is drawn from members of the Festival Fringe Society, who are often Fringe participants themselves – performers or administrators. Elections are held once a year, in August, and Board members serve a term of four years. The Board appoints the Fringe Chief Executive (formerly known as the Fringe Administrator or Director), currently Shona McCarthy who assumed the role in March 2016. The Chief Executive operates under the chair, currently Professor Sir Timothy O'Shea.\n\nThe Fringe started life when eight theatre companies turned up uninvited to the inaugural Edinburgh International Festival in 1947. With the International Festival using the city's major venues, these companies took over smaller, alternative venues for their productions. Seven performed in Edinburgh, and one undertook a version of the medieval morality play \"Everyman\" in Dunfermline Abbey, about 20 miles north, across the River Forth in Fife. These groups aimed to take advantage of the large assembled theatre crowds to showcase their own alternative theatre. Although at the time it was not recognised as such, this was the first Edinburgh Festival Fringe.\n\nThis meant that two defining features of the future Fringe were established at the very beginning – the lack of official invitations to perform and the use of unconventional venues. Originally, these groups referred to themselves as the \"Festival Adjuncts\" and were also referred to as the \"semi-official\" festival. It was not until the following year, 1948, that Robert Kemp, a Scottish playwright and journalist, is credited with coining the title \"Fringe\" when he wrote during the second Edinburgh International Festival:\nRound the fringe of official Festival drama, there seems to be more private enterprise than before ... I am afraid some of us are not going to be at home during the evenings!\nThe word \"fringe\" had in fact been used in a review of \"Everyman\" in 1947, when a critic remarked it was a shame the show was so far out \"on the fringe of the Festival\". In 1950, it was still being referred to in similar terms, with a small 'f':\nOn the fringe of the official Festival there are many praiseworthy \"extras,\" including presentations by the Scottish Community Drama Association and Edinburgh University Dramatic Society – \"Dundee Courier\", 24 August 1950\nThe Fringe did not benefit from any official organisation until 1951, when students of the University of Edinburgh set up a drop-in centre in the YMCA, where cheap food and a bed for the night were made available to participating groups.\n\nLate night revues, which would become a feature of Fringes, began to appear in the early 50s. The first one was the New Drama Group's \"After The Show\", a series of sketches taking place after Donald Pleasence's \"Ebb Tide\", in 1952. Among the talent to appear in early Fringe revues were Ned Sherrin in 1955, and Ken Loach and Dudley Moore with the Oxford Theatre Group in 1958. Due to many reviewers only being able to attend Fringe events late night after the official festival was finished, the Fringe came to be seen as being about revues.\n\nIt was a few years before an official programme for the Fringe was created. John Menzies compiled a list of shows under the title \"Other Events\" in their omnibus festival brochure, but it was printer C.J. Cousland who was the first to publish a listings guide, in 1954. This was funded by participating companies and was entitled \"Additional Entertainments\", since the name \"Fringe\" was still not yet in regular usage.\n\nBy that year, the Fringe was attracting around a dozen companies, and a meeting was held to discuss creating \"a small organisation to act as a brain for the Fringe\", or what \"The Scotsman\" called an \"official unofficial festival\". A first attempt was made to provide a central booking service in 1955 by students from the university, although it lost money, which was blamed on those who had not taken part.\n\nFormal organisation progressed in 1959, with the formation of the Festival Fringe Society. The push for such an organisation was led by Michael Imison, director of Oxford Theatre Group. A constitution was drawn up, in which the policy of not vetting or censoring shows was set out, and the Society produced the first guide to Fringe shows. Nineteen companies participated in the Fringe in that year. By that time it provided a \"complete... counter-festival programme\".\n\nNot long after came the first complaints that the Fringe had become too big. Director Gerard Slevin claimed in 1961 that \"it would be much better if only ten halls were licensed\".\n\nThe artistic credentials of the Fringe were established by the creators of the Traverse Theatre, John Calder, Jim Haynes and Richard Demarco, in 1963. While their original objective was to maintain something of the Festival atmosphere in Edinburgh all year round, the Traverse Theatre quickly and regularly presented cutting-edge drama to an international audience at both the Edinburgh International Festival and the Fringe during August. It set a standard to which other companies on the Fringe aspired. The Traverse is occasionally referred to as \"The Fringe venue that got away\", reflecting its current status as a permanent and integral part of the Edinburgh arts scene.\n\nThe Pleasance, a venue since the first year of the Fringe, was also important in setting the artistic tone. Christopher Richardson, founder of the Pleasance Theatre Trust, became a major Fringe figure.\n\nOver the first two decades of the Fringe, each performing group used its own performing space, or venue. However, by the late 1960s, the concept of sharing a venue became popular, principally as a means of cutting costs. It soon became common for halls to host up to six or seven different shows per day. The obvious next step was to partition a venue into two or more performing spaces; the majority of today's major venues fit into this category.\n\nFor many years, the Fringe Club (variously in the High Street from 1971 and at Teviot Row House from 1981) provided nightly showcases of Fringe fare to allow audiences to sample shows. In its earlier years the club also provided a significant space for after-hours socialising at a time when Edinburgh's strict licensing laws meant a 10pm pub closing time.\n\nProblems then began to arise as the Fringe became too big for students and volunteers to deal with. Eventually in 1969, the Fringe Society became a constituted body, and in 1970 it employed its first administrator, John Milligan, who stayed until 1976.\n\nBetween 1976 and 1981, under the direction of Alistair Moffat, the number of companies performing rose from 182 to 494, thus the Fringe ascended to its current position as the largest arts festival in the world. This was a deliberate policy by Moffat, who found it difficult to promote the Fringe on merit given the Society's position of neutrality. Increasing show numbers was therefore a way of attracting more attention. At this point, the Fringe operated on only two full-time members of staff.\n\nThe early 1980s saw the arrival of the \"super-venue\" – locations that contained multiple performing spaces. By 1981 when William Burdett-Coutts set up the Assembly Theatre in the empty Georgian building Assembly Rooms on George Street (formerly the EIF Festival Club), the investment in staging, lighting and sound meant that the original amateur or student theatricals were left behind.\n\nFringe Sunday started in the High Street in 1981 and moved, through pressure of popularity, to Holyrood Park in 1983. Fringe Sunday was held on the second Sunday of the Fringe when companies performed for free. Having outgrown even Holyrood Park, this showcase took place on The Meadows and continued until 2008.\n\n1981 was a watershed for comedy at the Fringe too. It was the first year of the Perrier Award (now known as the Edinburgh Comedy Awards). The alternative comedy scene was also beginning to take shape. Previously, comedy at the Fringe had taken the form of student revues. Now stand-up was becoming a feature. According to Alexei Sayle, \"The Fringe then was entirely University revues and plays; there was not a single piece of stand-up comedy until me and Tony [Allen] arrived.\" Comedy began an ascent which would see it become the biggest section of the programme by 2008.\n\nThe following year, 1982, The Circuit was prominent, situated on a piece of empty ground popularly known as \"The Hole in The Ground\". This was once the site of a church building (Poole's Synod Hall), which was converted to a cinema, and where the Saltire complex was subsequently built in the early 1990s. The new Traverse Theatre opened here in 1993. It had a 700 seat marquee auditorium, which hosted, among other things, opera, even though the organisers had been told it was no such place for the artform. The next year it became a \"tented village\", with several smaller tents. Malcolm Hardee made his debut here as part of The Greatest Show On Legs.\n\nThere was still theatre done on a shoestring, but several cultural entrepreneurs had raised the stakes to the point where a venue like Aurora (St Stephen's Church, Stockbridge) could hold its head up in any major world festival.\n\nIn 1986, promoter Karen Koren established The Gilded Balloon as a comedy venue in the former J. & R. Allan's department store on Cowgate. A 3am late licence made it a home for late night socialising for comedians and the raucous late night show Late 'n' Live was started there. \nIn 1988 the Society moved from 170 High Street to its current expanded headquarters on the Royal Mile.\n\nActs such as The Jim Rose Circus and Tokyo Shock Boys performed in the 1990s.\n\nThe Fringe Club ceased operation in 2004, but various venues still provide \"the Best of the Fest\" and similar.\n\nA computerised booking system was first installed in the early 1990s, allowing tickets to be bought at a number of locations around the city. The internet began to have an impact in 2000 with the launch of the Fringe's official website, which sold over half a million tickets online by 2005. The following year, a Half Price Ticket Tent, run in association with \"Metro\" newspaper, started offering special ticket prices for different shows each day. This sold 45,000 tickets in its first year.\n\nIn 2008, the Fringe faced the biggest crisis in its history when the computerised ticketing system failed. The events surrounding the failed box office software led to the resignation of Fringe Director Jon Morgan after only one full year in post. The resultant financial loss suffered by the Fringe Society was estimated at £300,000, which it was forced to meet from its reserves, although other sources report this at £900,000. These events attracted much comment from the UK and world media. More debts emerged as the year went on, and an independent report criticised the Board and the current and previous Fringe Directors for a failure of management and an inability to provide the basic service.\n\nThe Board eventually decided that the post of \"Director\" (instituted in 1992 in lieu of \"Fringe Administrator\") would be abolished and replaced by a Chief Executive, to reinforce the Fringe head's basic administrative function. A report into the failure was commissioned from accountancy firm Scott-Moncrieff. Several venues now use their own ticketing systems; this is partly due to issues of commissions and how ticket revenue is distributed, but was reinforced by this 2008 failure of the main box office.\n\nThe same year, other incidents conspired to add to the negative publicity. Fringe Sunday – a vast free showcase of events held on The Meadows – was cancelled when a sponsor could not be secured. The \"Big Four\" venues - Assembly, Gilded Balloon, The Pleasance and Underbelly - also decided to market themselves as Edinburgh Comedy Festival, which drew criticism from some quarters.\n\nAfter an interim period, during which Tim Hawkins, formerly general manager of Brighton Komedia took charge, the established Edinburgh Book Festival and Fringe manager Kath Mainland was appointed in February 2009 to stabilise the situation, becoming the Fringe's first Chief Executive.\n\nComedy finally surpassed theatre as the biggest section of the programme in 2008, with 660 comedy entries to 599.\n\nIn 2009, theSpaceUK launched their multi-space complex at the Royal College of Surgeons. In 2011, a new all-year-round multi-arts festival venue, containing ten performance spaces, opened in the former Royal (Dick) Veterinary School under the name Summerhall.\n\nIn 2016, Shona McCarthy, who had led Derry-Londonderry's term as UK City of Culture, took over from Kath Mainland as Chief Executive.\n\nDuring the Fringe the pedestrianised area of the High Street around St Giles' Cathedral and the Fringe Office becomes the focal point for theatre companies to hand out flyers, perform scenes from their shows, and attempt to sell tickets. These performances run alongside the Fringe Street Events which feature more than 200 street performers and thousands of buskers on the High Street and Mound Precinct. Many shows are \"2 for 1\" on the first Monday and Tuesday of the festival and different venues operate independent ticket offers throughout the festival.\n\nFringe venues come in all shapes and sizes, with use being made of nearly any viable space that is available, from regular theatres (e.g. the Traverse or Bedlam Theatre), function rooms (e.g. the Assembly Rooms), churches and church halls (e.g. the Quaker Meeting House, Paradise in Augustines), lecture theatres (including the notable George Square Theatre), conference centres, other university rooms and spaces, bars and pubs, temporary structures (The Famous Spiegeltent and the Udderbelly), schools, a public toilet, the back of a taxi, a double-decker bus and even in the audience's own homes.\n\nThe groups that operate the venues are also diverse: some are commercial and others not-for-profit; some operate year-round, while others exist only to run venues at the Fringe. Some are local, others are based in London and elsewhere and transfer to Edinburgh for August.\n\nFrom the performers' perspective, the decision on where to perform is typically based on a mixture of cost, location (close proximity to the main Fringe hubs around the University is seen as an advantage), and the philosophy of the venue – some of whom specialise in amateur, school or college productions, some of whom are semi or wholly professional.\n\nIn 2018 there were more than 3,500 shows registered in the programme taking place in 317 different venues.\n\nThe main venue operators can broadly be split into four groups:\n\nThere also continue to be single, independent venues, sometimes only hosting one show, sometimes only for a limited period.\n\nMany notable original shows originated at the Fringe and it has helped establish the careers of many writers and performers, including Rowan Atkinson, Steven Berkoff, Jo Brand, Billy Connolly, Ben Elton, Eddie Izzard, Tim Minchin, and Tadeusz Kantor.\n\nIn 1960, Alan Bennett, Dudley Moore, Peter Cook and Jonathan Miller performed at the Royal Lyceum Theatre in \"Beyond the Fringe\", introducing a new wave of British satire and heralding a change in attitudes towards politicians and the establishment. Ironically, this show was put together by the Edinburgh International Festival as a rebuff to the emerging Fringe. But its title alone helped publicise \"the Fringe\", especially when it went on to London's West End and New York's Broadway for the next 12 months.\n\nTom Stoppard's play, \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\" was first performed in its full version at the 1966 Fringe.\nNoted actor Derek Jacobi starred in a sixth-form production of \"Hamlet,\" which was very well regarded.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the Fringe attracted a number of major touring companies. Joint Stock Theatre Company, a leading innovative touring company at that time, brought two productions to the Fringe – \"The Great Celestial Cow\" by Sue Townsend and \"Fire in the Lake\" by Karim Alrawi.\n\nIn 1986, the Fringe saw the break-out performance of Craig Ferguson as \"Bing Hitler\", a \"parody of all the über-patriotic native folk singers who seemed to infect every public performance in Scotland\".\n\nIn the 21st century, shows that have debuted at the Fringe and then gone on to wider fame (or notoriety) include \"Stomp\" (theatrical show), \"Black Watch\" by the National Theatre of Scotland, and \"\".\n\n2003 saw a very successful production of \"12 Angry Men\" staged at the Assembly Rooms using established comedians in the roles of the twelve jurors. It starred Owen O'Neill in the role made famous by Henry Fonda, Juror No. 8. Stephen Frost, Phil Nichol and Bill Bailey also featured.\n\nA 2004 version of \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\" was beset by problems, including the lead actor Christian Slater contracting chicken pox and the original director, Guy Masterson, quitting the project before it opened. Masterson was replaced by Terry Johnson.\n\nIn 2005, a production of Neil Simon's \"The Odd Couple\" starring Bill Bailey and Alan Davies was staged at the Assembly Hall, the meeting place on the Mound of the Church of Scotland. This had been taken over by Assembly Theatre and transformed into an 840-seat theatre.\n\nThe Tattoo set-up at Edinburgh Castle served as the 6,000-seat venue for a one-off performance by Ricky Gervais of his stand-up show \"Fame\" in 2007. Gervais was accused of greed and taking audiences away from smaller shows. Gervais donated the profits from the show to Macmillan Cancer Support.\n\nIn 2015, the Sherman/Nicholls original musical production of \"Love Birds\" made its premiere at The Pleasance.\n\nArthur Smith, Paul Merton, Barry Cryer and Richard Herring are among the comedians who have performed at more Edinburgh Fringe festivals than anyone else. Arthur Smith has performed regularly at the Festival for over 40 years now (since 1977), Paul Merton has been performing regularly at the festival since 1985 (33 Years). Barry Cryer has performed at about 25 Edinburgh Fringes (since the 90’s) and Richard Herring has performed at 25 Fringes (since 1987).\n\nThe first chair of the board of directors was Lord Grant, a High Court judge, who gave way in 1970 to the actor Andrew Cruickshank. He was succeeded in 1983 by Jonathan Miller, and then by Elizabeth Smith, Baroness Smith (widow of former Labour Leader John Smith). The current chair is Professor Sir Timothy O'Shea, who succeeded Baroness Smith in 2012.\n\nThe first full-time Fringe chief was former teacher, John Milligan, who left in 1976 to run the Craigmillar Festival. He was succeeded by writer and historian Alistair Moffat, who left in 1981 to become Head of Arts at Scottish Television. He was replaced by Michael Dale, who departed in 1986 to become Head of Events for the Glasgow Garden Festival. He was succeeded by his deputy, Mhairi Mackenzie-Robinson, who left in 1993 to pursue a career in business. Hilary Strong served in the position until 1999, when she then became director of the Greenwich Theatre. She was followed by Paul Gudgin (2000–2007), Jon Morgan (2007–2008), and Kath Mainland (2008–2016). In November 2015, Mainland announced her decision to step down as Chief Executive to take on the role of Executive Director of the Melbourne Festival, and in early 2016 it was announced that her successor would be Shona McCarthy, who had headed up the 2013 Derry~Londonderry UK City of Culture. She took up the position in March 2016.\n\nThe Fringe has made the careers of many on the artistic and organisational side of the Fringe. William Burdett-Coutts, Karen Koren, Anthony Alderson and Charlie Wood and Ed Bartlam, the directors of the so-called \"Big Four\" venues have become well-known on the cultural scene.\n\nThe Fringe is an open access festival. The role of the Fringe Society is solely to facilitate the festival, concentrating mainly on the challenging logistics of organising such a large event. Alistair Moffat (Fringe administrator 1976–1981) summarised the role of the Society when he said, \"As a direct result of the wishes of the participants, the Society had been set up to help the performers that come to Edinburgh and to promote them collectively to the public. It did not come together so that groups could be invited, or in some way artistically vetted. What was performed and how it was done was left entirely to each Fringe group\". This approach is now sometimes referred to as an \"unjuried festival\", \"open access arts festival\" or a \"fringe festival.\"\n\nOver the years, this approach has led to adverse criticism about the quality of the Fringe. Much of this criticism comes from individual arts critics in national newspapers, hard-line aficionados of the Edinburgh International Festival, and occasionally from the Edinburgh International Festival itself.\n\nThe Fringe's own position on this debate may be summed up by Michael Dale (Fringe Administrator 1982–1986) in his book \"Sore Throats & Overdrafts\", \"No-one can say what the quality will be like overall. It does not much matter, actually, for that is not the point of the Fringe ... The Fringe is a forum for ideas and achievement unique in the UK, and in the whole world ... Where else could all this be attempted, let alone work?\". Views from the middle ground of this perennial debate point out that the Fringe is not complete artistic anarchy. Some venues do influence or decide on the content of their programme, such as the Traverse and Aurora Nova, who used to run their own venue but are now just a production group.\n\nThe Fringe itself at times sprouts a fringe. While the festival is unjuried, participating in the Fringe requires registration, payment of a registration fee,\nand use of a Fringe venue. For example, the 2008 registration fee was £289.05.\nSome outdoor spaces also require registration, notably the Royal Mile.\nThus some artists perform outside the auspices of the Fringe, either individually or as part of a festival or in association with a venue, either outdoors or in non-Fringe venues.\n\nStarted by Deborah Pearson in 2007, and continuing in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, under the co-directorship of Andy Field and Pearson, a primary \"Fringe of the Fringe\" festival is held,\nat The Forest, with support from 2008 to 2010 by the Battersea Arts Centre (BAC) and currently supported by several organisations including the Jerwood Foundation and Queen's University in Canada. The aim is to encourage experimentation by reducing costs to performers – not charging for space, and providing accommodation. The same applies to audiences: all shows being \"pay what you can\".\n\nThe concept of fringe theatre has been copied around the world. The largest and most celebrated of these spawned festivals are Adelaide Fringe Festival, National Arts Festival in Grahamstown, South Africa, and Edmonton International Fringe Festival. The number of such events continues to grow, particularly in the USA and Canada. In the case of Edinburgh, the Fringe is an addition to the Festival proper, being officially known as the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Where there is no pre-existing Festival to be added to – such as New York (est. 1997) – or where the festival is more \"fringe\" than anything else, the word comes before the word \"festival\", thus the \"Adelaide Fringe Festival.\" (est. 1979).\n\nIn the field of drama, the Edinburgh Fringe has premièred several plays, most notably \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\" by Tom Stoppard (1966) and \"Moscow Stations\" (1994), which starred Tom Courtenay. Over the years, it has attracted a number of companies that have made repeated visits to the Fringe, and in doing so helped to set high artistic standards. They have included: the London Club Theatre Group (1950s), Scotland (1970s), the Children's Music Theatre, later the National Youth Music Theatre under Jeremy James Taylor, the National Student Theatre Company (from the 1970s), Communicado (1980s and 1990s), Red Shift (1990s), Grid Iron and Fitchburg State University. The Fringe is also the staging ground of the American High School Theatre Festival.\n\nIn the field of comedy, the Fringe has provided a platform that has allowed the careers of many performers to bloom. In the 1960s, various members of the Monty Python team appeared in student productions, as subsequently did Rowan Atkinson, Stephen Fry, Hugh Laurie and Emma Thompson, the latter three with the 1981 Cambridge Footlights. Atkinson was at Oxford. Notable companies in the 1980s have included Complicite and the National Theatre of Brent. More recent comedy performers to have been 'discovered' include Rory Bremner, Fascinating Aïda, Reduced Shakespeare Company, Steve Coogan, Jenny Eclair, The League of Gentlemen, Flight of the Conchords, Al Murray and Rich Hall.\n\nMany performers have spoken highly of the Fringe, and the effect it has had on their career. Magician Paul Daniels first appeared at the Fringe in the twilight of his career in 2013, and commented, 'I've become Edinburgh's publicity agent. I tell everybody, \"You've got to be in it.\"'\n\nIn the 1996 book Bridget Jones's Diary by Helen Fielding, the title character visits the Edinburgh Fringe and plans which shows she will see.\n\nThe freedom to put on any show has led periodically to controversy when individual tastes in sexual explicitness or religion have been contravened. This has brought some into conflict with local city councillors. There have been the occasional performing groups who have deliberately tried to provoke controversy as a means of advertising their shows, but cracking down on sexual explicitness has led to shows being unfairly censored\n\nIn the mid-1990s, only the occasional top show charged £10 per seat, while the average price was £5–£7; in 2006, prices were frequently over £10, and reached £20 for the first time in 2006, for a one-hour show. Reasons people put forward for the increases include: increasing costs of hiring large venues, theatre licences and related costs—and the price of accommodation during the Edinburgh Festival, which is expensive for performers as well as for audiences.\n\nIn recent years, two organisations—The Free Fringe and The Laughing Horse Free Edinburgh Fringe Festival—have introduced free entry shows that collect donations at the end of each performance. 22 shows came under this banner in 2005, growing rapidly to over 600 in 2011. There was also the \"pay what you can\" model of the Forest Fringe, and \"Pay What You Want\" as introduced by Bob Slayer's Heroes of Fringe discussed above.\n\nPutting on a show at the Fringe with the big venues can be costly to performers, due to registration fees, venue hire, cost of accommodation, and travel to Edinburgh. In recent years venue costs and the need for expensive marketing have been increasingly challenged by Free and other Independent venues. There is a change happening at the Fringe and performers can increasingly negotiate with the big venues. The festival is also a networking opportunity, training ground or springboard for future career advancement, and exciting and fun for performers as well as spectators.\n\nPutting on shows is costly to venues as well, due to theatre licence fees which by 2009 had risen 800% in the preceding three years, and were eight times as high as fees in English cities, starting at £824 for a venue of up to 200 people and rising to £2,472 for a venue of up to 5,000 people. These fees have been cited as punitive to smaller venues and site-specific performances by such figures as Julian Caddy, which in 2009 featured site-specific shows in such venues as Inchcolm island and a swimming pool at the Apex International Hotel.\n\nIn 2012, there was criticism of the increasing commercialism of the Pay-To-Play fringe venues who charge acts to perform in advance of the Fringe. In many cases venue costs such as: venue rents / guarantees, compulsory marketing and various deductions mean that performers are being charged more than they can make back in ticket sales.\n\nStewart Lee stated in \"The Guardian\": \"For decades, the Fringe has been a utopia for artists and performers – but now profit-obsessed promoters are tearing it to pieces.\" Heroes of Fringe (Previously called The Alternative Fringe) was set up by Bob Slayer as a statement against Pay-To-Play venues.\n\nSome Fringe commentators agree that the Fringe will have to change and that the independent promoters are leading that change.\n\nThe comedy section has grown over recent decades to become the biggest section of the programme. The 2008 Fringe marked the first time that comedy has made up the largest category of entertainment. This has led to criticism that it has changed the nature of the Fringe, and separated it from its roots. Richard DeMarco has complained of \"an infestation of stand-up comics... an epidemic for which there is no cure\", which \"overwhelms the possibility of serious theatre\". Others have commented that a large proportion of newer audiences are drawn almost exclusively to stand-up comics (particularly to television comedy stars in famous venues), and that they are starting to regard non-comedy events as \"peripheral\".\n\nFor many groups at the Fringe, the ultimate goal is a favourable review—which, apart from the welcome kudos, may help minimise financial losses from putting on the show.\n\nEdinburgh based newspaper \"The Scotsman\", known for its comprehensive coverage of the Edinburgh Festival, originally aimed to review every show on the Fringe. Now they are more selective, as there are simply too many shows to cover, although they do see almost every new play being staged as part of the Fringe's theatre programme, because of their Fringe First awards.\n\nOther Scottish media outlets that provide coverage include: \"The Herald\", \"Scotland on Sunday\", \"Sunday Herald\" and the Scottish edition of \"Metro\". Scottish arts and entertainment magazines \"The List\", \"The Skinny\" and \"Fest Magazine\" also provide extensive coverage.\n\nA number of independent reviewing organisations cover the Fringe, including \"Broadway Baby\", \"ThreeWeeks\", \"Chortle\", \"FringeReview\", \"The Wee Review\" and \"FringeGuru\".\n\nThe now defunct Festival Media Network was founded in 2010 to act as a trade organisation for these independent media. Its members were \"Broadway Baby\", \"Festival Previews\", \"Fringe Guru\", \"FringeReview\", \"Hairline\", \"iFringe\", \"ThreeWeeks\", \"The Podcast Network\", and \"WhatsOnStage\".\n\nIn 2012, the most prolific reviewers were Broadway Baby which published over 1900 reviews, \"ThreeWeeks\", which published 1000 reviews during August, and \"The Scotsman\" with 826 reviews. \"The List\" published 480 reviews and \"WhatsOnStage.com\" published 52.\n\nMost of the London-based broadsheets also review, in particular \"The Guardian\" and \"The Independent\", while arts industry weekly \"The Stage\" publish a large number of Edinburgh reviews, especially of the drama programme.\n\nSince 2010, the British Comedy Guide has collated comedy reviews from as many publications as possible. In 2018, it gathered over 4,700 reviews from 135 publications, up from 4,300 from 83 different publications in 2014.\n\nThere are a growing number of awards for Fringe shows, particularly in the field of drama:\n\n\nThe first Fringe featured eight companies performing in five venues. By 1959, there were 19 companies; by 1969, 57; by 1979, 324. In 1981, there were 494, and the growth of the festival began to slow. But by 1999, there were over 600 companies giving 15,000 performances and in 2010, 1,900 giving 40,000.\n\nStatistics for 2011 Edinburgh Festival Fringe concluded that it was the largest on record: there were over 40,000 performances of over 2,500 different shows in 258 venues. Ticket sales amounted to around 1.8 million. There are now 12 full-time members of staff.\n\nOf the shows, theatre had been the largest genre in terms of number of shows until 2008, when it was overtaken by comedy, which has been the major growth area over the last 20 years. At the 2015 Fringe comedy was the biggest artform by number of shows, followed by theatre. The exact breakdown was: 34% comedy, 27% theatre, 14% music, 5% children's shows, 4% each cabaret/variety, dance/circus/physical theatre, spoken word, events, 3% musicals/opera, 2% exhibitions.\n\nThe 2015 Fringe issued an estimated 2,298,090 tickets for 50,459 performances of 3,314 shows in 313 venues over 25 days; the 2016 Fringe issued an estimated 2,475,143 tickets for 50,266 performances of 3,269 shows; and the 2017 Fringe 2,696,884 tickets for 53,232 performances of 3,398 shows.\n\nIn addition to ticketed, programmed events, the Fringe Street Events hosted by Virgin Money run each day of the festival, primarily on the Royal Mile and at the Mound Precinct.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5583838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5583838", "title": "Emergenza", "text": "Emergenza\n\nThere are elimination rounds in different countries throughout the year, whereby the bands that advance are selected by the audiences that hear them. Emergenza judges choose the winners at regional and final concerts.\n\nThe first Emergenza Festival emerged in 1992, when a group of musician friends staged the first event in Rome, Italy, before an audience of 245. Five months later, the attendance had grown to three thousand, and in that year the festival's first compilation album was made. From 1993 to 2003 Emergenza recorded 54 such albums, both live and in studio. In 1995 the Emergenza logo was created.\n\nOn January 7, 1996, the Gibus Club in Paris hosted the first Emergenza concert outside Italy. One hundred thirteen bands signed up. The following year 2,500 people attended the first Emergenza European Final at the London Astoria in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2001, the festival crossed the Atlantic Ocean to Montreal, and in 2002 five cities hosted Emergenza; by 2003 more than 700 bands were playing 190 engagements in the first U.S. season. The following year, 2,876 musicians took part in the United States, and some sixteen thousand played for audiences in Europe and Canada. In 2005, seventy North American cities took part.\n\nThe Emergenza Festival spread to both Japan and Australia in 2006, with shows in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Tokyo. Later, Perth in Western Australia and Brisbane were included in Australia's list. From 2008 through 2010, The Czech Republic, Slovenia, Russia and New Zealand began participating.\n\nNo places were awarded this year.\n\n"}
{"id": "10991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10991", "title": "February 10", "text": "February 10\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12585839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12585839", "title": "Hanna-Barbera's All-Star Comedy Ice Revue", "text": "Hanna-Barbera's All-Star Comedy Ice Revue\n\nHanna-Barbera's All-Star Comedy Ice Revue (onscreen title: Hanna-Barbera's All-Star Comedy Ice Review) is a 1978 American live-action/animated television special produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions (in association with deFaria Productions) featuring animated character Fred Flintstone and hosted by Roy Clark and Bonnie Franklin. It premiered on CBS on Friday, January 13, 1978 at 8:00 pm EST.\n\nA celebrity roast honoring Fred Flintstone on his 48th birthday featuring costumed Hanna-Barbera characters: Yogi Bear, Jabberjaw, Huckleberry Hound, Scooby-Doo, The Banana Splits, Hong Kong Phooey, Quick Draw McGraw, Snagglepuss, Wally Gator and The Hair Bear Bunch. The show is co-hosted by Roy Clark and Bonnie Franklin which includes special guest stars The Sylvers, the antics of British comedy duo Course & Young (Mike Course and Bob Young), the Fenton kids (Steve, Robin, Jack, Lisa and Todd), Sashi Kuchiki, the Ice Capettes and a special appearance by The Skatebirds (whose Saturday morning series was airing on CBS at the time). Throughout the special, the live-action celebrity roast sequences are interspersed with animated segments featuring Fred and Barney.\n\nWhen Roy and Bonnie announce the guest of honor, Fred and Barney are at home watching the event on TV when Fred suddenly realizes he was under the misunderstanding that it was scheduled for the following night. As Fred and Barney rush off to the ice arena, the show continues with musical numbers, ice displays including a comedy team, precision skating, disco-on-ice, jazz skating and an acrobatic number with fiery torches. When a costumed Fred finally arrives, the guests perform a \"Happy Birthday\" salute.\n\n\n\n\"Hanna-Barbera's All-Star Comedy Ice Revue\" has never been rebroadcast on television but was released on VHS in November 1986 by Worldvision Home Video.\n"}
{"id": "33915288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33915288", "title": "Hansa-Theater (Hamburg)", "text": "Hansa-Theater (Hamburg)\n\nHansa-Theater is a theatre in the St. Georg quarter of Hamburg, Germany. \n\n"}
{"id": "44409122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409122", "title": "HeavenFest", "text": "HeavenFest\n\nHeavenFest is an annual Christian music festival attracting tens of thousands of people each summer. The festival has been held in multiple cities along the Front Range of Colorado.\n\nIn its first two years, HeavenFest drew 12,500 and 23,000 people consecutively to the grounds of Northern Hills Church near Brighton, Colorado, a suburb of Denver. The 2010 event brought in the Scream the Prayer Tour while changing locations to a field in Longmont and drawing over 35,000 attendees. After one year in Longmont, The Ranch (Larimer County Fairgrounds and Events Complex) in Loveland became the new host of the festival. After 2 years in Loveland, organizers cancelled the 2013 event for \"a year of rest.\" In July 2014 it was announced on HeavenFest's Facebook page that the festival would return under new ownership and management after a two year hiatus. 2015's event was held August 7–8 at Bandimere Speedway in Morrison and it was there they announced that HeavenFest would return to the dragstrip July 29th-30th 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "7445253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7445253", "title": "I Medici", "text": "I Medici\n\nI Medici is an opera in four acts composed by Ruggero Leoncavallo, with a libretto by the composer. Set in Renaissance Florence at the court of Lorenzo de' Medici, it was intended as the first part of a planned but unfinished trilogy called \"Crepusculum\". The opera premiered on 6 November 1893 at the Teatro Dal Verme in Milan.\n\n\"I Medici\" was intended as the first part of a planned but unfinished trilogy called \"Crepusculum\", with the second and third operas to be called \"Savonarola\" and \"I Borgia.\" The word \"crepusculum,\" is Latin for \"twilight,\" signaling the influence of Richard Wagner's tetralogy \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" (whose fourth installment is called \"Twilight of the Gods\" (Gotterdammerung)). The remaining two operas were never completed.\nLeoncavallo sought to create an \"epic poem\" for the stage. However, one contemporary review of the premiere stated: \nIn \"I Medici\" we have a historical opera like those that have been made many times before and will be hence ... [but] we do not have either an epoch or a set of characters brought truthfully to life; we do not have, in a word, that counterpart of the mythic trilogy [sic] of Wagner at which Leoncavallo has gazed. \n\nIt premièred at the Teatro Dal Verme in Milan on 9 November 1893. It was not successful in its day and has never become part of the standard repertoire. However, it was revived at the Frankfurt Alte Oper in 1993 in concert version conducted by Marcello Viotti (the opera's first performance in Germany) and was given a fully staged performance in March 2013 at the Theater Erfurt in Erfurt, Germany conducted by Emmanuel Joel-Hornak.\n\nThe opera is set in Renaissance Italy and concerns intrigues centering on the Medici family, and the Pazzi Conspiracy. Giuliano de' Medici loves Simonetta Cattanei, who tries to warn him of the conspiracy against his family. But she is killed by Montesecco, a murderer hired by Pope Sixtus V. Giuliano is killed by the conspirators, but Lorenzo de' Medici escapes with the help of the poet Poliziano. He then wins the support of the people, who lynch the conspirators.\n\nA recording of the opera released in 2010 on Deutsche Grammophon featuring Plácido Domingo as Giuliano de' Medici, Carlos Álvarez as Lorenzo de' Medici, Vitaly Kovalkov as Francesco de' Pazzi, Daniela Dessì as Simonetta Cattanei (Simonetta Vespucci née Cattaneo ) and Renata Lamanda as Fioretta de' Gori. It was recorded in July 2007 at the Teatro Comunale Florence, with Alberto Veronesi conducting the Orchestra and Chorus of the Maggio Musicale Fiorentino .\n\n"}
{"id": "34507632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34507632", "title": "Iraqi insurgency (2011–2013)", "text": "Iraqi insurgency (2011–2013)\n\nThe Iraqi insurgency, later referred to as the Iraq Crisis, escalated after the withdrawal of U.S. troops in 2011, resulting in violent conflict with the central government, as well as sectarian violence among Iraq's religious groups.\n\nThe insurgency was a direct continuation following the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. After the U.S. military's withdrawal, the level of violence rose as Sunni militant groups stepped up attacks targeting the country's majority Shia population to undermine confidence in the Shia-led government and its efforts to protect people without American backup. Armed groups inside Iraq were increasingly galvanized by the Syrian Civil War, with which it merged in 2014. Many Sunni factions stood against the Syrian government, which Shia groups moved to support, and numerous members of both sects also crossed the border to fight in Syria.\n\nIn 2014, the insurgency escalated dramatically following the conquest of Mosul and major areas in northern Iraq by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS), a Salafi jihadist militant group and unrecognised proto-state that follows a fundamentalist, Wahhabi doctrine of Sunni Islam. ISIL gained global prominence in early 2014 when it drove Iraqi government forces out of key cities in its Western Iraq offensive, followed by its capture of Mosul and the Sinjar massacre. thereby merging the new conflict with the Syrian Civil War, into a new, far deadlier conflict.\n\nThe Iraq War was a protracted armed conflict that began with the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, which toppled the government of Saddam Hussein. However, the war continued for much of the next decade as an insurgency emerged to oppose the occupying forces and the post-invasion Iraqi government. The United States officially withdrew its troops from Iraq in 2011, but the insurgency and various dimensions of the civil armed conflict have continued.\n\nThe invasion began in 2003 when the United States, joined by the United Kingdom and several coalition allies, launched a \"shock and awe\" surprise attack without declaring war. Iraqi forces were quickly overwhelmed as U.S. forces swept throughout the country. The invasion led to the collapse of the Ba'athist government; Saddam was captured, and he was executed by a military court three years later. However, the power vacuum following Saddam's fall, the mismanagement of the occupation and the sectarian policies of various militias led to a lengthy insurgency against U.S., coalition forces and Iraqi government forces as well as widespread sectarian violence between Shias and Sunnis. The United States responded with a troop surge in 2007; the heavy American security presence and deals made between the occupying forces and Sunni militias reduced the level of violence. The U.S. began withdrawing its troops in the winter of 2007–2008. The winding down of U.S. involvement in Iraq accelerated under President Barack Obama. The U.S. withdrew all combat troops from Iraq by 2011.\n\nThe Bush administration based its rationale for war principally on the assertion that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) and that Saddam's government posed an immediate threat to the United States and its coalition allies. Some U.S. officials accused Saddam of harboring and supporting al-Qaeda, while others cited the desire to end a repressive dictatorship and bring democracy to the people of Iraq. After the invasion, however, no substantial evidence was found to verify the initial claims about WMDs. The rationale and misrepresentation of pre-war intelligence faced heavy criticism within the U.S. and internationally.\n\nAs a result of the war, Iraq held its multi-party elections in 2005, and Nouri al-Maliki later became Prime Minister the following year. The Maliki government enacted policies that were widely seen as having the effect of alienating the country's Sunni minority, which worsened sectarian tensions. In 2014, ISIS launched a military offensive in Northern Iraq and later declared a worldwide Islamic caliphate, eliciting another military response from the United States and its allies. The Iraq War caused hundreds of thousands of civilian and military casualties (see estimates). The majority of the casualties occurred as a result of the insurgency and civil conflicts between 2004 and 2007.\n\nAs previously planned, the last US combat troops were withdrawn from Iraq in 2011, with security responsibility in the hands of the Iraqi Armed Forces. On 15 December, martial closing ceremony was held in Baghdad putting a formal end to the U.S. mission in Iraq. This ceased direct U.S. combat involvement in the war. The last 500 soldiers left Iraq under cover of darkness and under strict secrecy early on the morning of 18 December 2011, ending the U.S. military presence in Iraq after nearly nine years. On 22 December 2011 at least 72 civilians were killed and more than 170 wounded in a series of bombings across Baghdad, while nine others died in various attacks in Baqubah, Mosul and Kirkuk.\n\nA number of bombings took place in Baghdad and Nasiriyah, killing 73 and leaving 149 injured. The bombing in the southern Iraqi city was targeted at crowds of Shi'ite Muslims and killed at least 44, injuring more than 80 others. It was the first major attack in Nasiriyah since a suicide attack against an Italian army base killed 28 in November 2003, including 19 Italians. ISIS claimed responsibility.\n\nA suicide bomber detonated his explosives amid a crowd of Shi'ite pilgrims in Basra, killing 53 and injuring 141. This was the deadliest attack in the city since car bombs in April 2004 killed at least 74.\nOn January 27 – A suicide bomber attacked a funeral procession in Baghdad's Zaafaraniyah district, killing 32 and injuring more than 70 others.\nOn February 23 – A series of attacks across 15 Iraqi cities left 83 killed and more than 250 injured. ISIS claimed responsibility two days later.\nOn March 5 – A gang of gunmen disguised in military-style uniforms and carrying forged arrest warrants killed 27 police and then hoisted the battle flag of al-Qaeda in a carefully planned early morning attack in Anbar Governorate.\nOn March 20 – A wave of attacks centered on Baghdad and Kerbala killed at least 52 and left more than 250 injured. ISIS claimed responsibility.\nOn April 19 – More than 20 bombs exploded across Iraq, killing at least 36 people and wounding almost 170. ISIS claimed responsibility.\nOn June 4, A suicide bomber killed 26 people and wounded almost 200 at the offices of a Shiite foundation in Baghdad, sparking fears of sectarian strife at a time of political crisis. The attack in the center of the capital was followed later by an explosion near a Sunni religious foundation, causing no casualties.\nOn June 13, At least 93 people were killed and over 300 wounded in a series of highly coordinated attacks across Iraq. ISIS claimed responsibility.\n\nOn July 3, Explosions in Diwaniyah, Karbala, Taji and Tuz Khormato killed 40 and injured 122 others.\nOn July 22, Car bombs killed 23 and wounded 74 in Baghdad, Mahmoudiyah and Najaf.\nOn July 23, Coordinated attacks across Iraq killed 116 and left 299 injured. ISIS claimed responsibility.\nOn July 31, Attacks across Iraq killed 24 and injured 61, most of them in twin car bombings in Baghdad.\nOn August 13, at least 128 people were killed and more than 400 wounded in coordinated attacks across Iraq, making them the deadliest attacks in the country since October 2009, when 155 were killed in twin bombings near the Justice Ministry in Baghdad.\nOn September 9, A wave of attacks across the country killed at least 108 and left more than 370 others injured.\nOn September 30, A string of attacks occur in at least 10 Iraqi cities, killing 37 and injuring more than 90 others, most of them civilians.\nOn October 27, a wave of attacks during the Eid al-Adha holiday across Iraq killed at least 46 and left 123 injured. Most incidents occurred in Baghdad, Taji, Mosul and Muqdadiya.\nOn October 28, a Car bombings during the last day of Eid left 15 people dead and 33 injured in Baghdad.\nOn November 6, a car bombing outside an army base in Taji killed 31 people and injured at least 50 others, most of them soldiers. The blast struck as troops were leaving the base and potential recruits were lining up for job interviews.\nOn November 14, Insurgents staged a number of attacks on the eve of the Islamic New Year, killing 29 and injuring at least 194 others. The deadliest incidents took place in Kirkuk and Hilla, where at least seven bombings killed 19 and left 129 wounded. Other attacks took place in Baghdad, Mosul, Kut, Fallujah and Baqubah.\nOn November 27, At least 29 people are killed and 126 wounded in eight car bombings across Iraq.\n\nTwo days of consecutive attacks across northern and central Iraq on December 16 and 17 killed at least 111 and injured 299 others. A significant part of the casualties were from a series of blasts in Kirkuk, Baghdad and Tuz Khormato, where at least 34 died and 154 others were injured. Other incidents took place in Mosul, Tarmiyah, Diwaniyah, Dujail, Tikrit and Baqubah, among others. Most of the attacks appeared to target police officers and members of the Iraqi Army.\n\nAfter a period of calm, renewed political tension within Iraq led to renewed protests, this time mostly centered around the country's Sunni minority. The main cause for upheaval was the ongoing standoff between Vice President Tareq al-Hashemi and Prime Minister al-Maliki, but strained relationships with the Kurdish autonomous regions added to the scene. On December 23, 2012, several thousand Iraqis marched against al-Maliki, responding to his moves against al-Hashemi and other influential Sunni leaders.\n\nOn 4 January, a car bombing in Musayyib killed 28 Shi'ite pilgrims and injured 60 others as they were returning from Karbala. In mid-January, a suicide bomber killed a prominent Sunni MP and six others in Fallujah, two days after Finance Minister Rafi al-Issawi survived an assassination attempt in the same city. The parliamentarian, Ayfan Sadoun al-Essawi, was an important member of the Sons of Iraq committee in Fallujah and part of the opposition to Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. A suicide truck-bomber also attacked the headquarters of the Kurdistan Democratic Party in Kirkuk, killing 26 and leaving 204 injured. A similar attack against another Kurdish office in Tuz Khormato killed 5 and wounded 40. Later that month, a suicide bomber blew himself up during a funeral for a politician's relative in the city of Tuz Khormato, killing 42 and leaving 75 others wounded. In addition, protests by Sunni Muslims in Iraq against the government of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki turned deadly in Fallujah, as soldiers opened fire on a crowd of rock-throwing demonstrators, killing 7 and injuring more than 70 others. Three soldiers were later shot to death in retaliation for the incident, and clashes erupted in Askari, on the eastern outskirts of Fallujah. Security forces were placed on high alert as a curfew and vehicle ban were brought into effect. In a statement, Maliki urged both sides to show restraint and blamed the incident on unruly protesters. He also warned that it could lead to a \"rise in tension that al-Qaida and terrorist groups are trying to take advantage of\".\n\nIn February, a suicide car-bomber detonated his vehicle near the provincial police headquarters in Kirkuk, killing at least 36 and injuring 105 others. Among the wounded was Major General Jamal Tahir, the city's chief of police, who had survived a previous attack at almost the same spot two years earlier. Three additional attackers were killed after the initial blast, as they attempted to throw grenades at security forces. Several officers who survived the attack reported that the first bomber was driving a police car and wearing a uniform. When guards at the gate stopped him to check his credentials, he detonated his explosives.\n\nIn early March, unidentified gunmen ambushed a Syrian Army convoy escorted by Iraqi soldiers in the Battle of Akashat, killing 48 Syrians and 13 Iraqis. The assault took place near the desert border between the two nations in Iraq's Al Anbar Governorate. Authorities suspected the Free Iraqi Army, Jabhat al-Nusra, or al-Qaeda in Iraq of being behind the attack. A week later, ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack, stating that they had \"annihilated\" a \"column of the Safavid army,\" a reference to the Shia Persian dynasty that ruled Iran from 1501 to 1736. The group also claimed that the presence of Syrian soldiers in Iraq showed \"firm co-operation\" between the Syrian and Iraqi governments. In mid-March, a series of coordinated attacks across the capital Baghdad and several major cities in the north and central parts of the country killed at least 98 people and left 240 others injured. The wave of violence was directed mostly at Shia civilians and took place on the tenth anniversary of the beginning of the Iraq War. ISIS later claimed responsibility for the attacks.\n\nIn April, a tanker bomb exploded at the police headquarters in Tikrit, killing at least 42 people and injuring 67 others. Insurgents attacked an oil field near Akaz in a remote part of Al Anbar Governorate, killing 2 engineers and kidnapping a third one. Other attacks across the country left a prison warden in Mosul dead and 11 others injured, including the mayor of Tuz Khormato and at least four journalists, who were stabbed by unknown assailants in a series of attacks on media offices in the capital Baghdad. Five days later, a suicide bomber killed 22 and injured 55 at a political rally for a local Sunni candidate in Baqubah. On April 23, Iraqi Army units moved against an encampment set up by protesters in Hawija, west of the city of Kirkuk, sparking deadly clashes and reprisal attacks across the country. According to army officers, the operation was aimed at Sunni militants from the Naqshbandi Army, who were reportedly involved in the protests. A total of 42 people were killed and 153 others injured, with most of them being protesters - only 3 soldiers were confirmed dead and 7 others wounded. The incident sparked a number of revenge attacks, that soon spread out across much of the country. Minister of Education Mohammed Tamim resigned from his post in response to the Army's operation, and was followed later by Science and Technology Minister Abd al-Karim al-Samarrai. Insurgents from the Naqshbandi Army completely captured the town of Sulaiman Bek, about 170 km north of Baghdad, after heavy fighting with security forces on April 25, only to relinquish control of it a day later, while escaping with weapons and vehicles. More than 340 were killed and 600 others injured in the four days of heaviest violence, while attacks continued after that at a pace higher than earlier in the year.\n\nIn late May, the Iraqi government launches Operation al-Shabah (\"Phantom\"), with the stated aim of severing contact between al-Qaeda in Iraq and the Syrian al-Nusra Front by clearing militants from the border area with Syria and Jordan.\n\nFrom January 2014 onwards, the rise of ISIS (or as it is also known, ISIL), a major belligerent in the Syrian Civil War, has transformed the insurgency into a regional war that includes Syria, Iran and a large coalition of Western and Islamic forces led by the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "19103102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19103102", "title": "Istanbul Animation Festival", "text": "Istanbul Animation Festival\n\nIstanbul Animation Festival () is a festival of animated films founded in 2003 and held annually in November. Festival Director and Founder is Efe Efeoglu. The festival is organised by Alternatif Akım.\n\n4th İstanbul Animation Festival\n\nPrice Winners\n\nIAF Grand Price: John and Karen - Matthew Walker\nTurkish Short: Akvaryum - Denizcan Yüzgül\nStudent Film: 458 nm - Jan Bitzer, Ilja Brunk, Tom Weber\nFirst Film: Fetch - Steve Townrow\nFirst Film: Cable - Remi Gamiette\nMusic Video: Last Time in Clerkeuwell - Alex Budovsky\nAdvertisement: Nike Fitness - Lobo\nMotion Graphic: 8.1 - Deva Van Guylenborg\nJury Special Price: Don't Let It All Unravel - Sarah Cox\n\n3rd İstanbul Animation Festival\n\nPrice Winners in Professional Branch\n\nIAF Grand Price: Mind The Gap! - Anastasia Zhuravleva\nBest 3D Animation: Stars - Eoghan Kidney\nBest 2D Animation: Simone - Aksel Zeydan Göz\nBest Visual Effect: Stars - Eoghan Kidney\nBest Sound: Stars - Eoghan Kidney\nJury Special Prices:\nCarnivore Reflux - Eddie White & James Calver\nIslwyn Ogwyn - Jem Roberts\n\nPrize Winners in Amateur Branch\n\nIAF Grand Price: Mind The Gap! - Anastasia Zhuravleva\nBest 3D Animation: Hallucii - Goo-Shun Wang\nBest 2D Animation: 'Cuz - Emmanuelle Walker\nBest Visual Effect: Sperm - Deniz Kader\nBest Sound: Mind The Gap! - Anastasia Zhuravleva\nJury Special Prices:\nGazap - Murat Kirişçi\nMavi Kuş - Mustafa Ercan Zırh\n\n2nd İstanbul Animation Festival\n\nPrize Winners in Professional Branch\n\nIAF Grand Price: Yetenikli Bay Köksal - Cenk Köksal\nBest 3D Animation: Hand, Gun, Rock, WC - Aslan Elver\nBest 2D Animation: Yetenikli Bay Köksal - Cenk Köksal\nBest Picture: Foreverlove 2 - Nebi Yıkaroğlu\nBest Visual Effect: Dalgalanan Korsan Bayrağı - Burak Özdelice\nBest Sound: Dalgalanan Korsan Bayrağı, Kış Gibi - Burak Özdelice\nBest Advertisement: Çelik - Anima\nJury Special Prices:\n3digital - Gürkan Yılmaz\nForeverlove - Nebi Yıkaroğlu\n\nPrize Winners in Amateur Branch\n\nIAF Grand Price: Rasyonalite ya da Yüzyılın Yazgısı - Emir Benderlioğlu\nBest 3D Animation: Caveman - Tuğhan Arslan, Dağhan Demirtaş\nBest 2D Animation: Oyun Bitti - Yücel Çavdar\nBest Picture: Temas - Erman Manyaslı\nBest Visual Effect: Kopi - Ahmet Sönmez\nBest Sound: Tangram - Şahin Özbay\nJury Special Prices:\nDenizcan Yüzgül\nCem Başak\n\n1st İstanbul Animation Festival\n\nPrize Winners\n\nFirst: Garden of Love - Onur Yeldan\nSecond: Ronk and Bird - Arslan Elver\nThird: RobotX - Ömer Tatlısöz\n\n"}
{"id": "30801556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30801556", "title": "Jahan-e-Khusrau", "text": "Jahan-e-Khusrau\n\nJahan-e-Khusrau (Urdu, Persian: جہاں خسرو, Hindi: जहान-ए-खुसरो) is an annual three-day sufi music festival held in New Delhi, India to commemorate the death anniversary of the saint Amir Khusrau.\n\nJahan-e-Khusrau was started in the year 2001 by noted film director, Muzaffar Ali.\n\nThe festival is held at Chaunsath Khamba located in Nizamuddin Basti and the lawns of the Humayun's Tomb — incidentally, this is where Khusrau started the qawwali music tradition in the 13th century AD.\nYear - 2001\n\"Dates - 10-11 March\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\"\n\nYear - 2002\n\"Dates - 8-10 March\"\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\n *Sultana Chaudhuri, BANGLADESH\n\nYear - 2003\n\"Dates - 28 February, 1-2 March\"\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\n\nYear - 2004\n\"Dates - 26-27 March\"\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\n\nYear - 2005\n\"Dates - 4-6 March\"\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\n\nYear - 2006\nVenue - Art & Culture Museum, Boston, USA\n\nYear - 2007\n\"Dates - 30-31 March & 1 April\nVenue - Quli Khan's Tomb, Mehrauli Archeological Park, New Delhi\"\n\n\"Year - 2008 Jahan e Khusrau was not held\"\n\nYear - 2009\n\"Venue - SKICC, Shrinagar, Kashmir\"\n\nYear - 2010\n\"Dates - 25-28 Feb\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\"\n\nYear - 2010\nDates - June\n\"Venue - Southbank Centre, London\"\nYear - 2011\n\"Dates - 11-13 March\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\"\n\nYear - 2012\n\"Dates - 2-4 March\"\nVenue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\n\nYear - 2012\n\"Dates - 21-22 October\"\nVenue - Central Park, Jaipur\n\nYear - 2013\n\"Dates - 1-3 March\n\"Venue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\"\n\nYear - 2013\n\"Dates - 5-6 October\"\nVenue - Central Park, Jaipur\n\nYear - 2017\n\"Dates - 24-26 March\"\n\"Venue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\"\n\nYear - 2018\n\"Dates - 9 - 11 March\"\n\"Venue - Arab ki Sarai, Humayun Tomb Monuments, New Delhi\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38431590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38431590", "title": "Keat Hwa Centennial Celebrations", "text": "Keat Hwa Centennial Celebrations\n\nKeat Hwa Centennial Celebrations () is a series of events held in celebration of the 100 years of existence of Keat Hwa Secondary School, Keat Hwa II Secondary School, Keat Hwa High School and three other Chinese primary schools.\n\nKeat Hwa Centennial Celebrations also mark the existence of Chinese education in Malaysia for more than 100 years.\n\nA centenary celebration committee was set up prior to the celebration by the Keat Hwa Alumni Organisation (吉华校友会). The committee is fully in charge of the celebrations with the co-operation from the school authorities. A series of events were organised throughout the year, culminating with a 3-day celebration, to mark this auspicious year for Keat Hwa, from 28 to 31 July 2011.\n\nThe 3-day gala event was held at the Keat Hwa Secondary School (吉华卓越华文中学) compound. Besides exhibition booths, there were several other unique and meaningful events organised. Among the huge events are the Grand Festival, Grand Dinner and the Grand Expo. Other events include the celebration of Mooncake Festival by all the six Keat Hwa schools, singing competition, torch relay, Chinese cultural activities and, most importantly, the celebration of Chinese education in Malaysia.\n\nThe 3-day event successfully attracted more than 35,000 students and alumnus from all over the world. The centenary celebration marked a milestone of Keat Hwa and showcased the success of the Chinese community in fighting for their own Chinese education, mother-tongue language and culture. Besides, the celebration was able to collect donations to set up an Education Fund for the usage of Keat Hwa schools in the coming years.\n\nGrand Festival (大庆典) was one of the biggest events of the celebrations. The Opening Ceremony with the participants of more than 1000 students, consisting different clubs and societies, uniformed units, Boards of Directors from 6 schools and also the alumnus of Keat Hwa. Before the opening ceremony, a parade was held where all the teams marched from the oldest school building, Keat Hwa (S) to Keat Hwa Secondary School. The parade was the only major procession held in the city of Alor Setar in the last few decades to celebrate the anniversary of a school. The journey was roughly 5 kilometres and it caught the attention of the citizens of Alor Setar. Some even joined the parade which ended at the Keat Hwa Secondary School. The whole journey was held successfully with the help of the Malaysian police and the paramilitary civil volunteer corps controlling the traffic in the city.\n\nA torch tower was designed and built for the Opening Ceremony with more than a million can tabs weighing more than 1100 kg. The preparation of the torch tower involved the participation of all students, teachers and alumnus of Keat Hwa Secondary School. The achievement was recorded into the Malaysia Book of Records.\n\nGrand Expo (大博览) was another huge event in the 3-day celebration. Besides booths, there were performances such as Chinese Orchestra, Wushu, cheer leadings, street dances, concerts and night markets, which added colour to the spirited celebration.\n\nThe Malaysian Prime Minister, Dato' Sri Najib Razak also attended the opening ceremony of the Grand Expo. Together with him included the Minister in the Prime Minister's Department, Tan Sri Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, Minister of Housing and Local Government, Dato' Chor Chee Heung and the Home Minister, Datuk Seri Panglima Hishammuddin Hussein. Other government officers were also present.\n\nGrand Dinner (世纪宴) was the final event of the 3-day celebration. The dinner was held on the final day of the celebration at the Dewan Wawasan, Jitra. The dinner was attended by more than 2500 Keat Hwa alumnus from all over the world.\n\nOne of the peak event during the dinner was the performance which included more than 100 students from 6 Keat Hwa schools. The performance was to showcase the 100 years of Keat Hwa through drama and dance.\n\n"}
{"id": "46876571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46876571", "title": "List of events held in Boris Trajkovski Sports Center", "text": "List of events held in Boris Trajkovski Sports Center\n"}
{"id": "4409997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4409997", "title": "Lyceum Theatre (Broadway)", "text": "Lyceum Theatre (Broadway)\n\nThe Lyceum Theatre ( ) is a Broadway theatre located at 149 West 45th Street near Times Square between Seventh and Sixth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, New York City.\n\nOpened in 1903, the Lyceum Theatre is one of the three oldest surviving Broadway venues (along with the Hudson and New Amsterdam Theatres). It is the oldest continuously operating legitimate theatre in New York City, and the first Broadway theatre ever to be granted landmark status (1974). It is one of the few theatres in New York which continues to operate under its original name.\n\nDesigned by architects Herts & Tallant in the Beaux-Arts style, the Lyceum was built by impresario Daniel Frohman. It opened on November 2, 1903, with the play \"The Proud Prince\". Frohman's brother Charles served as the theater's manager until his death in 1915.\n\nTwo previous New York playhouses had also been called \"Lyceum Theatre\". The Fourteenth Street Theatre used the name from 1871 to 1879. Frohman's own earlier Lyceum on Fourth Avenue, was built in 1885 and closed in April 1902. It was replaced by the new Lyceum on 45th Street.\n\nAmong the prominent performers who appeared on the Lyceum's stage in its early years were Ethel Barrymore, Fanny Brice, Billie Burke, Ina Claire, Miriam Hopkins, Walter Huston, Basil Rathbone, and Cornelia Otis Skinner. It has been owned by the Shubert Organization since 1952.\n\nThe theatre maintains most of its original Beaux-Arts design, including its elaborate marble staircases and undulating marquee. Although it has three levels, it is one of the smaller Broadway theatres in terms of capacity, seating only 922. An apartment located above the orchestra, originally used by Frohman, is now the headquarters of the Shubert Archives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41961190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41961190", "title": "Marriage of the Sea ceremony", "text": "Marriage of the Sea ceremony\n\nThe Marriage of the Sea (), sometimes referred to as the Marriage of the Adriatic, was an ancient ceremony which used to symbolize the maritime dominion of Venice.\n\nThe ceremony, established in about 1000 AD to commemorate the Doge Pietro II Orseolo's conquest of Dalmatia, was originally one of supplication and placation, Ascension Day being chosen as that on which the doge set out on his expedition. The form it took was a solemn procession of boats, headed by the doge's ship (from 1311 the Bucentaur), out to sea by the Lido port. A prayer was offered that \"for us and all who sail thereon the sea may be calm and quiet\", whereupon the doge and the others were solemnly aspersed with holy water, the rest of which was thrown into the sea while the priests chanted \"Aspergēs mē hȳsōpō, et mundābor\" (\"Sprinkle me with hyssop, and I will be clean\" – Psalm 51:7).\n\nTo this ancient ceremony a quasi-sacramental character was given by Pope Alexander III in 1177, in return for the services rendered by Venice in the struggle against the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick I. The pope drew a ring from his finger and, giving it to the doge, bade him cast such a one into the sea each year on Ascension Day, and so wed the sea. Henceforth the ceremonial, instead of placatory and expiatory, became nuptial.\n\nEvery year the doge dropped a consecrated ring into the sea, and with the Latin words \"Desponsamus te, mare, in signum veri perpetuique domini\" (\"We wed thee, sea, as a sign of true and everlasting domination\") declared Venice and the sea to be indissolubly one.\n\nDespite the end of the office of the doge and the destruction of the Bucentaur, the ceremony of the marriage of the sea continues to this day. It is performed by the mayor of Venice aboard a smaller ceremonial barge called the \"Bissona Serenissima\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55441249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55441249", "title": "Matese Legion", "text": "Matese Legion\n\nThe Matese Legion was a group of 240 Italian volunteers that joined Giuseppe Garibaldi in the war for Italian unification in 1861. It was formed in Piedimonte D'Alife, now called Piedimonte Matese, in June 1860, and was officially established on 25 August of the same year. Membership in the legion gradually declined, and it broke apart on 3 March 1861...\n\nThe Matese Legion was an unconventional legion in that it was created after a number of Garibaldian volunteers joined together with the aim of tearing down the Bourbon power in Piedimonte and supporting the Southern Army of Garibaldi as it proceed in its advance from Sicily to Rome. 1107 Garibaldian volunteers had left Genoa to reach Sicily on 5 May 1860, guided by Garibaldi and Nino Bixio, an Italian general, as second in command. Their aim was to gain the approval of the population in order to take away power from the various insurrectionary movements in the south regions of the country.\nAfter seeing the success that the Garibaldian campaign was having in Sicily, Beniamino Caso realized the value in creating a military troop to rebel against the Bourbon power, and in June 1860 in Piedimonte he assembled a group of liberal volunteers with the aim of overthrowing it. Originally nameless, the group was soon dubbed the Matese Legion by individuals in Turin, and the name was eventually adopted by all.\n\nOn 18 August Beniamino Caso and Pasquale Casella travelled to Naples to personally pick up the weapons and the flag of the newly born legion. The two entered Piedimonte Matese the night of 24 August 1860 with the flag, 100 rifles and 12 boxes of amunition, and the following morning the legion was officially constituted.\nThe legion was organised into two different parties based upon the volunteers' area of origin, with the first party including the sections of Alvignano, Dragoni, S. Angelo d'Alife, Raviscanina e Piedimonte; the second one included the sections of S.Maria Capua Vetere, San Lorenzello and Calvi.\nFrom Piedimonte the legion, under the command of Major De Blasiis, departed on 31 August for Benevento. He entered the city on 3 September, welcomed by the population after having been liberated from seven centuries of pontifical rule.\n\nThroughout the period of unification, in addition to their participation in numerous battles, the legion was used to suppress brigandage and to provide public security alongside the authorities.\n\nBetween September 19 and 21, 1860, the Garibaldian armies fought against part of the Army of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies in Caiazzo.\nThe Battle began on 19 September, when the Garibaldian Column, guided by the Hungarian Csudafy, approached the town of Caiazzo. On 20 September over 300 members of the Matese Legion joined Csudafy's Army. On 21 September the legion, under Csudafy, fought unsuccessfully alongside the Garibaldian Column against the Bourbon Army, which conquered and set fire to Caiazzo.\nThis early defeat prepared the Garibaldian Army for the following battle.\n\nThe Garibaldian Column, guided by Csudafy, entered Piedimonte Matese on the night of 22 September 1860 to assist the legion with this battle. The Bourbon army consisted of 3000 men and 3 cannons, while the Garibaldians had only approximately 200 men. The latter were forced to find refuge in the Matese mountains, leaving the city to the enemy, who successfully conquered it on 25 September.\n\nThe Battle of the Volturnus (1860) refers to a series of military clashes between Garibaldi's volunteers and the troops of the Kingdom of Two Sicilies. It occurred around the river Volturno, in Capua, situated in the province of Caserta in northern Campania, between 26 September and 2 October 1860. The success of the Garibaldian troops in liberating Piedimonte was evidenced in the battle, where 191 volunteers of the Matese Legion participated, under the command of Major Guadagni.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Volturnus, the 180 surviving members of the Matese Legion prepared to return to battle against some bourbons troops that were based in Isernia. On 15 October they joined an army led by the Colonel Francesco Nullo, which consisted of 1160 volunteers. They began to move towards Isernia with the aim of conquering the city and, in this way, be the advance guard of the Garibaldian army in the region. Colonel Nullo was confident in the power of his army, but on 17 October they were defeated by the enemy, with 64 dead and 95 prisoners. The Matese Legion lost approximately thirty soldiers.\n\nFollowing the end of the war for Italian Unification, all volunteers were released from service following a decree by Victor Emmanuel II. On 3 March 1861, the Matese Legion reunited for the last time in Caserta in front of the Mayor Giuliano Amato Giaquinto, in order to return their weapons. Colonel Francesco Materazzo asked the members to join the newly formed Italian army, but all declined the offer and disbanded. \nThe Matese Legion was founded by Beniamino Caso and Bonaventura Campagnano, who were in charge of recruiting all the volunteers in the district and in other localities within the province. The fighters recognized Beniamino Caso and Salvatore Pizzi as the leaders of the insurrectionary movement in Terra di Lavoro.\n\nGiuliano Iannotta was the Capitan of the Matese Legion, while Giuseppe de Blasiis was the Duce sent from Comitato dell'Ordine, tasked with supervising the Matese Legion.\n\nGiuliano Iannotta directed the volunteers during the Battle of Volturnus on 1 October 1860, and kept a journal detailing the events of the battle. During this battle the legion was commanded by a Florentine officer, Major Guadagno Guadagni.\nThe established young painter Gioacchino Toma was a member of the legion.\n\n\"First Matese Legion\" is an historical Garibaldine association that commemorates the Legion by re-enacting important historical events.\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>They stage events in cities across Italy, particularly in Rome, in order to share the history and spread awareness and knowledge the Matese Legion. The Matese Legion's flag was preserved, and is stored in the museum of Piedimonte Matese. There is a commemorative tombstone where there are the names of the most important members of the legion. This is located in the town hall and every year on 4 November the Mayor, followed by a parade, places a crown under the tombstone.\nThe city of Piedimonte Matese is deeply entwined with legion, with many streets named after important members, such as Pietro Romagnoli and the bishop Gennaro di Giacomo, both of whom played an important role in encouraging the formation of the legion. The founder of the legion, Beniamino Caso, is commemorated in Piedimonte Matese in various ways. There is a palace which carries his name, where an epigraph testifies to the formation of the legion in this particular palace on 25 August 1860. Additionally, in San Gregorio Matese, his native town, the major square is called \"Piazza Beniamino Caso\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26450978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26450978", "title": "Murder of Jennifer Ertman and Elizabeth Peña", "text": "Murder of Jennifer Ertman and Elizabeth Peña\n\nThe rape and murder of Jennifer Ertman and Elizabeth Peña, two teenage girls from Houston, Texas, aged 14 and 16, respectively, occurred on June 24, 1993. The murder of the two girls made headlines in Texas newspapers due to the nature of the crime and the new law resulting from the murder that allows families of the victims to view the execution of the murderers. The case was also notable in that the state of Texas rejected attempts by the International Court of Justice to halt the executions of several of the perpetrators.\n\nOn June 24, 1993, Jennifer Lee Ertman (August 15, 1978 – June 24, 1993) and Elizabeth Christine Peña (June 21, 1977 – June 24, 1993), Waltrip High School students, were attending the pool party of a friend who lived in the Spring Hill Apartments. When the pair realized that they were going to be late returning home, they decided to leave the party in order to meet an 11 p.m. curfew. Ertman and Peña decided to take a 10-minute shortcut to Peña's residence in Oak Forest by following the railroad tracks and then passing through T.C. Jester Park.\n\nThe girls were walking along the White Oak Bayou when they encountered \"Black and White\" gang members drinking beer after holding a gang initiation. \n\nThe gang captured Peña, and Ertman had initially escaped but was captured after she ran back to help her friend when she screamed. The six gang members raped the girls repeatedly. After realizing that the girls might identify them, Peter Anthony Cantu, a leader of the gang, ordered the members to kill the girls, so the members strangled them to death. Derrick Sean O'Brien and Raul Omar Villarreal strangled Ertman with a red nylon belt before the belt broke; then the gang members used shoelaces. Cantu, José Medellín, and Efrain Perez strangled Peña with shoelaces. The members then stomped on the girls' throats to ensure their deaths.\n\nCantu, Medellín, Perez, and Villareal then congregated at Cantu's residence, where he lived with his brother, Joe Cantu, and sister-in-law, Christina Cantu. Christina Cantu questioned why Villareal was bleeding and Perez had a bloody shirt. This prompted Medellín to say the gang \"had fun,\" and that details would appear on the news. He then elaborated that he had raped both girls. \n\nPeter Cantu then returned, and divided valuables that had been stolen from the girls. José Medellín got a ring with an \"E\", so he could give it to his girlfriend, Esther. Medellín reported that he had killed a girl, and noted that he would have found it easier with a gun. O'Brien was videotaped smiling at the scene of the crime. After the gang left, Christina Cantu convinced Joe Cantu to report the crime to police.\n\nFour days after the crime, the bodies were found in the park during hot weather conditions. They were badly decaying, and dental records were used for identification. The medical examiner corroborated that the cause of death was strangulation. All those believed responsible were ultimately arrested. Medellín gave both a written and taped confession.\n\nAt sentencing, the offenders were remanded to the Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) system. Peter Anthony Cantu, José Ernesto Medellín, Derrick Sean O'Brien, Efrain Perez, and Raul Omar Villareal received death sentences. Venancio Medellín, the brother of José Medellín, was 14 at the time of the murder, the same age as Jennifer Ertman. Venancio received a 40-year prison sentence. When the Supreme Court of the United States banned the executions of people who committed crimes while they were below 18 years of age, the sentences of Perez and Villareal were automatically commuted to life in prison. O'Brien, an African-American and the only non-Hispanic in the gang, was the first to be executed, in July 2006. O'Brien was buried in the Captain Joe Byrd Cemetery in Huntsville, Texas.\n\nJosé Ernesto Medellín appealed his execution, saying that he had informed City of Houston and Harris County police officers that he was a Mexican citizen, and that he had been unable to confer with Mexican consular officials. The prosecutors said that Medellín never told authorities that he was a Mexican citizen. Medellín said in a sworn statement that he learned that the Mexican consulate could assist him in 1997. He petitioned the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals in 1998 regarding this issue; the appeal failed.\n\nMedellín's impending execution became an international controversy, since the state did not hold a hearing about whether the inability for Medellín to meet with Mexican consular officials harmed his defense. The right of a defendant to talk with his or her consulate is specified in the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations; the United States is a party to the convention, although the U.S. withdrew from compulsory jurisdiction in 1986 to accept the court's jurisdiction only on a case-by-case basis. In 2004 the International Court of Justice responded to a lawsuit filed by Mexico against the United States; the court ordered hearings to be held for inmates, including Medellín, who were denied consular rights.\n\nIn 2005, President George W. Bush ordered hearings to be held. The State of Texas, represented by Solicitor General Ted Cruz, challenged Bush's order, and the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that only the Congress of the United States has the right to order hearings to be held. In July, the World Court ordered a stay of Medellín's execution. Governor Rick Perry argued that Texas is not bound to World Court rulings. Death penalty opponents protested the impending execution. The families of both Ertman and Peña strongly favored the execution(s).\nRandy Ertman (1952 - 2014), father of Jennifer Ertman, wanted to have Andy Kahan, the City of Houston's crime advocate, witness the execution of Medellín. TDCJ refused to permit Kahan to witness the execution. Michelle Lyons, a TDCJ official, said that Tropical Storm Edouard would likely not be a factor preventing the execution of Medellín.\n\nJosé Ernesto Medellín was executed at 9:57 p.m. on August 5, 2008, after his last-minute appeals were rejected by the Supreme Court. Governor Perry rejected calls from Mexico and Washington, D.C. to delay the execution, citing the torture, rape and strangulation of two teenage girls in Houston 15 years ago as just cause for the death penalty. Seventeen years after the crimes, Peter Anthony Cantu was executed on August 17, 2010. The lethal injection was performed at 6:09 p.m. and at 6:17 p.m. Cantu was officially pronounced dead.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Randy Ertman advocated strongly against granting parole to Venancio Medellín.\nThe parents of the murder victims successfully advocated for the State of Texas allowing relatives of victims to have permission to witness executions. Before the murders, City of Houston officials had stated that gangs were not a significant issue in the city. C.E. Anderson, a Houston Police Department officer who worked on the murder case, described the murder as \"part of the impetus for the anti-gang programs in Houston.\" Jennifer Latson of the \"Houston Chronicle\" said that the deaths of the girls \"shook\" the Oak Forest neighborhood of Houston \"to its foundation.\"\n\nWaltrip High School contains a memorial to the girls. Another memorial exists at T.C. Jester Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42481221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42481221", "title": "New Year Sprint", "text": "New Year Sprint\n\nThe New Year Sprint (formerly the Powderhall Sprint) is the name of a handicap sprint race for professional athletes that takes place each year in Scotland. The sprint is one of the original events of this type, tracing its history back to 1870.\n\nThe race was originally called the Powderhall Sprint after the district of Edinburgh where it first took place.\nThe Powderhall Sprint was one of a circuit of professional handicap sprint races that prospered in the late nineteenth century in the United Kingdom. The handicap system meant the highly rated runners ran longer distance than the less highly rated runners - the handicap being determined by previous results. Those runners that had to run the full distance, the most highly rated, were running from 'scratch'. A huge amount of betting surrounded all the professional races and they were often shrouded in allegations of fraud to ensure a winner favourable to the bookmakers.\n\nThe race later moved from Powderhall to the Meadowbank Stadium in Edinburgh and then onto Musselburgh Racecourse. The move, in 1971, to the Meadowbank Stadium happened after the newly opened venue had hosted the 1970 Commonwealth Games. The Powderhall Stadium had hosted the Powderhall Sprint uninterrupted, including through two world wars, since 1870, apart from a brief break in 1953 and between 1958 and 1964 when various venues in Scotland hosted the race. In 1999, the race moved to Musselburgh Racecourse.\n\nThe present race is run at Musselburgh Racecourse and is now run over 110 meters, with the winner receiving GBP£4,000.\n\nIn 1993, amateur athletes were allowed to compete for the first time without the risk of losing their amateur status.\n\nThe New Year Sprint in its various incarnations has attracted many of the world's top sprinters.\n\nDuring the First World War, it attracted the great Australian sprinter Jack Donaldson and British Olympic medal winner Willie Applegarth.\n\nWillie McFarlane won the race 2 years in succession in 1933 and 1934, the latter from scratch- a record that still stands.\nin 1951, Geoff Harrington from Brownhills won the race, beating Eric Cumming, and beating the 150-year-old record with a time of 11.5 seconds\nIn 1952, the great Australian sprinter Eric Cumming was champion and the American Olympian Barney Ewell was a competitor.\n\nIn 1970, the winner was George McNeill who is the holder of the world professional 120 yards record.\n\nIn 1987, the former United States collegiate 200 m champion William Snoddy won.\n\n"}
{"id": "2554521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2554521", "title": "Nialamide", "text": "Nialamide\n\nNialamide (Niamid, Niamide, Nuredal, Surgex) is a non-selective, irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) of the hydrazine class that was used as an antidepressant. It was withdrawn by Pfizer several decades ago due to the risk of hepatotoxicity.\n\nThe antiatherogenic activity of nialamide was used to design pyridinolcarbamate.\n\n"}
{"id": "8955445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8955445", "title": "O. J. Simpson", "text": "O. J. Simpson\n\nOrenthal James Simpson (born July 9, 1947), nicknamed The Juice, is an American former running back, broadcaster, actor, advertising spokesman, and convicted robber.\n\nSimpson attended the University of Southern California (USC), where he played football for the USC Trojans and won the Heisman Trophy in 1968. He played professionally as a running back in the NFL for 11 seasons, primarily with the Buffalo Bills from 1969 to 1977. He also played for the San Francisco 49ers from 1978 to 1979. In 1973, he became the first NFL player to rush for more than 2,000 yards in a season. He holds the record for the single season yards-per-game average, which stands at 143.1. He is the only player to ever rush for over 2,000 yards in the 14-game regular season NFL format.\n\nSimpson was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1983 and the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1985. After retiring from football, he began new careers in acting and football broadcasting.\n\nIn 1994, Simpson was arrested and charged with the murders of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ron Goldman. He was acquitted by a jury after a lengthy and internationally publicized trial. The families of the victims subsequently filed a civil suit against him, and in 1997 a civil court awarded a $33.5 million judgment against him for the victims' wrongful deaths.\n\nIn 2007, Simpson was arrested in Las Vegas, Nevada, and charged with the felonies of armed robbery and kidnapping. In 2008, he was convicted and sentenced to 33 years imprisonment, with a minimum of nine years without parole. He served his sentence at the Lovelock Correctional Center near Lovelock, Nevada. On July 20, 2017, Simpson was granted parole. He was eligible for release from prison on October 1, 2017, and was released shortly after midnight on that date.\nBorn and raised in San Francisco, California, Simpson is a son of Eunice (née Durden), a hospital administrator, and Jimmy Lee Simpson, a chef and bank custodian. His father was a well-known drag queen in the San Francisco Bay Area. Later in life, Jimmy Simpson announced that he was gay. He died of AIDS.\n\nSimpson's maternal grandparents were from Louisiana, and his aunt gave him the name Orenthal, which she said was the name of a French actor she liked. Simpson has one brother, Melvin Leon \"Truman\" Simpson, one living sister, Shirley Simpson-Baker, and one deceased sister, Carmelita Simpson-Durio. As a child, Simpson developed rickets and wore braces on his legs until the age of five, giving him his bowlegged stance. His parents separated in 1952, and Simpson was raised by his mother.\n\nSimpson grew up in San Francisco and lived with his family in the housing projects of the Potrero Hill neighborhood. In his early teenage years, he joined a street gang called the Persian Warriors and was briefly incarcerated at the San Francisco Youth Guidance Center. Future wife Marquerite, his childhood sweetheart, described Simpson as \"really an awful person then\"; after his third arrest, a meeting with Willie Mays during which the baseball star encouraged Simpson to avoid trouble helped persuade him to reform. At Galileo High School (currently Galileo Academy of Science and Technology) in San Francisco, Simpson played for the school football team, the Galileo Lions.\n\nAlthough Simpson was an All-City football player at Galileo, his mediocre high-school grades prevented him from attracting the interest of many college recruiters. After a childhood friend's injury in the Vietnam War influenced Simpson to stay out of the military, he enrolled at City College of San Francisco in 1965. He played football both ways as a running back and defensive back and was named to the Junior College All-American team as a running back. City College won the Prune Bowl against Long Beach State, and many colleges sought Simpson as a transfer student for football.\n\nSimpson chose to attend the University of Southern California (USC), which he had admired as a young football fan, over the University of Utah and played running back for head coach John McKay in 1967 and 1968. Simpson led the nation in rushing both years under McKay: in 1967 with 1,543 yards and 13 touchdowns, and in 1968 with 1,880 yards on 383 carries.\n\nAs a junior in 1967, Simpson was a close runner-up in the Heisman Trophy balloting to quarterback Gary Beban of UCLA. In that year's Victory Bell rivalry game between the teams, USC was down by six points in the fourth quarter with under eleven minutes remaining. On their own 36, USC backup quarterback Toby Page called an audible on third and seven. Simpson's 64-yard touchdown run tied the score, and the extra point provided a 21–20 lead, which was the final score. This was the biggest play in what is regarded as one of the greatest football games of the 20th century.\n\nAnother dramatic touchdown in the same game is the subject of the Arnold Friberg oil painting, \"O.J. Simpson Breaks for Daylight.\" Simpson also won the Walter Camp Award in 1967 and was a two-time consensus All-American.\n\nSimpson was an aspiring track athlete; in 1967 he lost a 100 m race at Stanford against the then-British record holder Menzies Campbell. Prior to playing football at Southern Cal, he ran in the USC sprint relay quartet that broke the world record in the 4 x 110-yard relay at the NCAA track championships in Provo, Utah on June 17, 1967.\nAs a senior in 1968, Simpson rushed for 1,709 yards and 22 touchdowns in the regular season, earning the Heisman Trophy, the Maxwell Award, and Walter Camp Award. He still holds the record for the Heisman's largest margin of victory, defeating runner-up Leroy Keyes by 1,750 points. In the Rose Bowl on New Year's Day, #2 USC faced top-ranked Ohio State; Simpson ran for 171 yards, including an 80-yard touchdown run in a 27–16 loss.\n\nThe first selection 1969 AFL-NFL Common Draft was held by the AFL's Buffalo Bills, after finishing 1–12–1 in 1968. They took Simpson, but he demanded what was then the largest contract in professional sports history: $650,000 over five years. This led to a standoff with Bills' owner Ralph Wilson, as Simpson threatened to become an actor and skip professional football. Eventually, Wilson agreed to pay Simpson.\n\nSimpson entered professional football with high expectations, but struggled in his first three years, averaging only 622 yards per season. Bills coach John Rauch, not wanting to build an offense around one running back, assigned Simpson to do blocking and receiving duties at the expense of running the ball. In 1971, Rauch resigned as head coach and the Bills brought in Harvey Johnson. Despite Johnson devising a new offense for Simpson, Simpson was still ineffective that year. After the 1971 season, the Bills fired Johnson and brought in Lou Saban as head coach. Unlike Rauch, Saban made Simpson the centerpiece of the Bills offense.\n\nIn 1972, Simpson rushed for over 1,000 yards for the first time in his career, gaining a league-leading total of 1,251 yards. In 1973, Simpson became the first player to break the highly coveted 2,000 yard rushing mark, with 2,003 total rushing yards and 12 touchdowns. Simpson broke the mark during the last game of the season against the New York Jets with a 7-yard rush. That same game also saw Simpson break Jim Brown's single-season rushing record of 1,863 yards. For his performance, Simpson won that year's NFL MVP Award and Bert Bell Award. While other players have broken the 2,000-yard mark since Simpson, his record was established in a time when the NFL only had 14 games per season, as opposed to the 16-game seasons that began in 1978.\n\nSimpson gained more than 1,000 rushing yards for each of his next three seasons. He didn't lead the league in rushing in 1974, but did cross the 1,000-yard barrier despite a knee injury. In game 11 of 1974, he passed Ken Willard as the rushing leader among active players, a position he maintained until his retirement over five seasons later. Simpson also made his first and only playoff appearance during the 1974 season. In a against the Pittsburgh Steelers, Simpson rushed for 49 yards on 15 attempts and caught a touchdown pass, but the Bills lost the game 32–14.\n\nSimpson won the rushing title again in 1975, rushing for 1,817 yards and 16 touchdowns. Simpson also had a career-high 426 receiving yards and 7 receiving touchdowns that season. Simpson once again led the league in rushing in 1976, rushing for 1,503 yards and 8 touchdowns. Simpson had the best game of his career during that season's Thanksgiving game against the Detroit Lions on November 25. In that game, Simpson rushed for a then-record 273 yards on 29 attempts and scored two touchdowns. Despite Simpson's performance, the Bills would lose the game 27–14.\n\nSimpson played in only seven games in 1977, as his season was cut short by injury.\n\nBefore the 1978 season, the Bills traded Simpson to his hometown San Francisco 49ers for a series of draft picks. Simpson played in San Francisco for two seasons, rushing for 1,053 yards and four touchdowns. His final NFL game was on December 16, 1979, a 31–21 loss to the Atlanta Falcons at Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium. His final play was a 10-yard run on 3rd and 10 for a first down.\n\nSimpson gained 11,236 rushing yards, placing him 2nd on the NFL's all-time rushing list when he retired; he now stands at 21st. He was named NFL Player of the Year in 1973, and played in six Pro Bowls. He was the only player in NFL history to rush for over 2,000 yards in a 14-game season and he's the only player to rush for over 200 yards in six different games in his career. From 1972 to 1976, Simpson averaged 1,540 rushing yards per (14 game) season, 5.1 yards per carry, and he won the NFL rushing title four times. Simpson was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1985, his first year of eligibility.\n\nSimpson played in only one playoff game during his 11-season Hall of Fame career: a 1974 Divisional Playoff between the Buffalo Bills and the Pittsburgh Steelers. Simpson was held to 49 rushing yards, 3 receptions for 37 yards, and one touchdown, and the Bills lost 14-32 to the team which went on to win Super Bowl IX.\n\nSimpson acquired the nickname \"Juice\" as a play on \"O.J.\", a common abbreviation for \"orange juice\". \"Juice\" is also a colloquial synonym for electricity or electrical power, and hence a metaphor for any powerful entity; the Bills' offensive line at Simpson's peak was nicknamed \"The Electric Company\".\n\n\nEven before his retirement from the NFL, Simpson embarked on a film career with parts in films such as the television mini-series \"Roots\" (1977), and the dramatic motion pictures \"The Klansman\" (1974), \"The Towering Inferno\" (1974), \"The Cassandra Crossing\" (1976) and \"Capricorn One\" (1978). In 1979, he started his own film production company, Orenthal Productions, which dealt mostly in made-for-TV fare such as the family-oriented \"Goldie and the Boxer\" films with Melissa Michaelsen (1979 and 1981), and \"Cocaine and Blue Eyes\" (1983), the pilot for a proposed detective series on NBC. He also starred in the comedic \"Back to the Beach\" (1987) and \"The Naked Gun\" trilogy (1988, 1991, 1994). \n\nBesides his acting career, Simpson worked as a commentator for \"Monday Night Football\" and \"The NFL on NBC.\" He also appeared in the audience of \"Saturday Night Live\" during its second season and hosted an episode during its third season.\n\nSimpson starred in the un-televised two-hour-long film pilot for \"Frogmen,\" an \"A-Team\"-like adventure series that Warner Bros. Television completed in 1994, a few months before the murders. NBC had not yet decided whether to order the series when Simpson's arrest cancelled the project. While searching his home, the police obtained a videotaped copy of the pilot as well as the script and dailies. Although the prosecution investigated reports that Simpson, who played the leader of a group of former United States Navy SEALs, received \"a fair amount of\" military training—including use of a knife—for \"Frogmen,\" and there is a scene in which he holds a knife to the throat of a woman, this material was not introduced as evidence during the trial.\n\nNBC executive Warren Littlefield said in July 1994 that the network would probably never air the pilot if Simpson were convicted; if he were acquitted, however, one television journalist speculated that \"\"Frogmen\" would probably be on the air before the NBC peacock could unfurl its plume\". Most pilots that are two hours long are aired as TV movies whether or not they are ordered as series. Because—as the \"Los Angeles Times\" later reported—\"the appetite for all things O.J. appeared insatiable\" during the trial, Warner Bros. and NBC estimated that a gigantic, Super Bowl-like television audience would have watched the \"Frogmen\" film. Co-star Evan Handler said that the studio's decision not to air it or release it on home video, and forego an estimated $14 million in profits, was \"just about the only proof you have that there is some dignity in the advertising and television business\".\n\nIn 2006, Simpson starred in his own improv, hidden-camera prank TV show, \"Juiced.\" Typical of the genre, Simpson would play a prank on everyday people while secretly filming them and at the end of each prank, he would shout, \"You've been Juiced!\" Less typical, each episode opened with topless strippers dancing around Simpson, who is dressed as a pimp. He sings his own rap song, which includes the lyrics \"Don't you know there's no stopping the Juice / When I'm on the floor I'm like a lion on the loose / Better shoot me with a tranquilizer dart / Don't be stupid, I'm not a Simpson named Bart.\" In one episode, Simpson is at a used car lot in Las Vegas where he attempts to sell his white Bronco (made famous during the chase in Los Angeles prior to his arrest). A bullet hole in the front of the SUV is circled with his autograph, and he pitches it to a prospective buyer by saying that if they \"ever get into some trouble and have to get away, it has escapability.\" In another sketch called \"B-I-N-G-O.J.\", Simpson pretends to be having an affair with another man's girlfriend. Later he transforms into an old white man whose dying wish is to call a game of bingo. \"Juiced\" aired as a one-time special on pay-per-view television and was later released on DVD.\n\nIn 1975, \"People\" magazine described Simpson as \"the first black athlete to become a bona fide lovable media superstar.\" Chuck Barnes helped him form business relationships with Chevrolet and ABC early in his career. By 1971, \"New York\" wrote that Simpson was already wealthy enough to, \"retire this week if [he] wanted to.\" His amiable persona and natural charisma landed Simpson numerous endorsement deals. From 1975, he appeared in advertisements with the Hertz rental car company, in whose commercials he was depicted running through airports, serving as an embodiment of speed; Simpson estimated that the very successful campaign raised the recognition rate among people he met from 30% to 90%. He was also a longtime spokesman for Pioneer Chicken and owned two franchises, one of which was destroyed during the 1992 Los Angeles riots; as well as HoneyBaked Ham, the pX Corporation, and Calistoga Water Company's line of Napa Naturals soft drinks. He also appeared in comic book ads for Dingo cowboy boots.\n\nAt age 19 on June 24, 1967, Simpson married Marguerite L. Whitley. Together, they had three children: Arnelle L. Simpson (b. 1968), Jason L. Simpson (b. 1970), and Aaren Lashone Simpson (1977–1979). In August 1979, Aaren drowned in the family's swimming pool.\n\nSimpson met Nicole Brown in 1977, while she was working as a waitress at the nightclub \"The Daisy\". Although still married to his first wife, Simpson began dating Brown. Simpson and Marguerite\ndivorced in March 1979.\n\nBrown and Simpson were married on February 2, 1985, five years after his retirement from professional football. The couple had two children, Sydney Brooke Simpson (b. 1985) and Justin Ryan Simpson (b. 1988). The marriage lasted seven years, during which Simpson pleaded no contest to spousal abuse in 1989. Brown filed for divorce on February 25, 1992, citing irreconcilable differences. In 1993, after the divorce, Brown and Simpson made an attempt at reconciliation, but according to Sheila Weller \"they were a dramatic, fractious, mutually obsessed couple before they married, after they married, after they divorced in 1992, and after they reconciled.\"\n\nOn June 12, 1994, Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman were found stabbed to death outside Nicole's condominium in the Brentwood area of Los Angeles. Simpson was a person of interest in their murders. Simpson did not turn himself in, and on June 17 he became the object of a low-speed pursuit in a white 1993 Ford Bronco SUV owned and driven by Al Cowlings. TV stations interrupted coverage of the 1994 NBA Finals to broadcast the incident live. With an estimated audience of 95 million people, the event was described as \"the most famous ride on American shores since Paul Revere's\". The pursuit, arrest, and trial were among the most widely publicized events in American history. The trial, often characterized as the Trial of the Century because of its international publicity similar to that of Sacco and Vanzetti and the Lindbergh kidnapping, culminated after eleven months on October 3, 1995, when the jury rendered a verdict of \"not guilty\" for the two murders. An estimated 100 million people nationwide tuned in to watch or listen to the verdict announcement. Following Simpson's acquittal, no additional arrests or convictions related to the murders were made.\n\nImmediate reaction to the verdict was notable for its division along racial lines: a poll of Los Angeles County residents showed that most African Americans there felt that justice had been served by the \"not guilty\" verdict, while the majority of whites and Latinos expressed an opinion that it had not. O. J. Simpson's integrated defense counsel included Johnnie Cochran, Robert Kardashian, Robert Shapiro, and F. Lee Bailey. Marcia Clark was the lead prosecutor for the State of California.\n\nAccording to a 2016 poll, 83% of white Americans and 57% of black Americans believe Simpson was guilty of the murders.\n\nFollowing Simpson's acquittal of criminal charges, Ron Goldman's family filed a civil lawsuit against Simpson. Daniel Petrocelli represented plaintiff Fred Goldman (Ronald Goldman's father), while Robert Baker represented Simpson. Superior Court Judge Hiroshi Fujisaki presided, and he barred television and still cameras, radio equipment, and courtroom sketch artists from the courtroom. On October 23, 1996, opening statements were made, and on January 16, 1997, both sides rested their cases.\n\nOn February 5, 1997, a civil jury in Santa Monica, California unanimously found Simpson liable for the wrongful death of and battery against Goldman, and battery against Brown. Simpson was ordered to pay $33,500,000 in damages. In February 1999, an auction of Simpson's Heisman Trophy and other belongings netted almost $500,000, which went to the Goldman family.\n\nThe Goldman family also tried to collect Simpson's NFL $28,000 yearly pension but failed to collect any money.\n\nIn 1997, Simpson was evicted from the estate in which he had lived for 20 years, at 360 North Rockingham Avenue, after defaulting on the mortgage. In July 1998, the house was demolished by its next owner, Kenneth Abdalla, an investment banker and president of the Jerry's Famous Deli chain. The property's address has since been renumbered to 380 North Rockingham Avenue.\n\nA 2000 \"Rolling Stone\" article reported that Simpson still made a significant income by signing autographs. He subsequently moved from California to Florida, settling in Miami. In Florida, among a few states, a person's residence cannot be seized to collect a debt under most circumstances.\n\nOn September 5, 2006, Goldman's father took Simpson back to court to obtain control over Simpson's \"right to publicity\", for purposes of satisfying the judgment in the civil court case. On January 4, 2007, a federal judge issued a restraining order prohibiting Simpson from spending any advance he may have received on a canceled book deal and TV interview about the 1994 murders. The matter was dismissed before trial for lack of jurisdiction. On January 19, 2007, a California state judge issued an additional restraining order, ordering Simpson to restrict his spending to \"ordinary and necessary living expenses\".\n\nOn March 13, 2007, a judge prevented Simpson from receiving any further compensation from the defunct book deal and TV interview, and the judge ordered the bundled book rights to be auctioned. In August 2007, a Florida bankruptcy court awarded the rights to the book to the Goldman family, to partially satisfy an unpaid civil judgment. Originally titled \"If I Did It\", the book was renamed \"If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer\", with the word \"If\" reduced in size to make the title appear to read \"I Did It: Confessions of the Killer\". Additional material was added by members of the Goldman family, investigative journalist Dominick Dunne, and author Pablo Fenjves.\n\nThe State of California claims Simpson owes $1.44 million in back taxes. A tax lien was filed in his case on September 1, 1999.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Simpson attempted to register \"O. J. Simpson\", \"O. J.\", and \"The Juice\" as trademarks for \"a broad range of goods, including figurines, trading cards, sportswear, medallions, coins, and prepaid telephone cards\". A \"concerned citizen\", William B. Ritchie, sued to oppose the granting of federal registration on the grounds that doing so would be immoral and scandalous. Simpson gave up the effort in 2000.\n\nIn February 2001, Simpson was arrested in Miami-Dade County, Florida, for simple battery and burglary of an occupied conveyance, for yanking the glasses off another motorist during a traffic dispute three months earlier. If convicted, Simpson could have faced up to 16 years in prison, but he was tried and quickly acquitted of both charges in October 2001.\n\nOn December 4, 2001, Simpson's Miami home was searched by the FBI on suspicion of ecstasy possession and money laundering. The FBI had received a tip that Simpson was involved in a major drug trafficking ring after 10 other suspects were arrested in the case. Simpson's home was thoroughly searched for two hours, but no illegal drugs were discovered, and no arrest or formal charges were filed following the search. However, investigators uncovered equipment capable of stealing satellite television programming, which eventually led to Simpson's being sued in federal court.\n\nOn July 4, 2002, Simpson was arrested in Miami-Dade County, Florida, for water speeding through a manatee protection zone and failing to comply with proper boating regulations. The misdemeanor boating regulation charge was dropped, and Simpson was fined for the speeding infraction.\n\nIn March 2004, satellite television network DirecTV, Inc. accused Simpson in a Miami federal court of using illegal electronic devices to pirate its broadcast signals. The company later won a $25,000 judgment, and Simpson was ordered to pay an additional $33,678 in attorney's fees and costs.\n\nOn the night of September 13, 2007, a group of men led by Simpson entered a room at the Palace Station hotel-casino and took sports memorabilia at gunpoint, which resulted in Simpson's being questioned by police. Simpson admitted to taking the items, which he said had been stolen from him, but denied breaking into the hotel room; he also denied that he or anyone else carried a gun. He was released after questioning.\n\nTwo days later, Simpson was arrested and initially held without bail. Along with three other men, Simpson was charged with multiple felony counts, including criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, assault, robbery, and using a deadly weapon. Bail was set at $125,000, with stipulations that Simpson have no contact with the co-defendants and that he surrender his passport. Simpson did not enter a plea.\n\nBy the end of October 2007, all three of Simpson's co-defendants had plea-bargained with the prosecution in the Clark County, Nevada, court case. Walter Alexander and Charles H. Cashmore accepted plea agreements in exchange for reduced charges and their testimony against Simpson and three other co-defendants, including testimony that guns were used in the robbery. Co-defendant Michael McClinton told a Las Vegas judge that he too would plead guilty to reduced charges and testify against Simpson that guns were used in the robbery. After the hearings, the judge ordered that Simpson be tried for the robbery.\n\nOn November 8, 2007, Simpson had a preliminary hearing to decide whether he would be tried for the charges. He was held over for trial on all 12 counts. Simpson pleaded not guilty on November 29, and the trial was reset from April to September 8, 2008. Court officers and attorneys announced, on May 22, 2008, that long questionnaires with at least 115 queries would be given to a jury pool of 400 or more.\n\nIn January 2008, Simpson was taken into custody in Florida and flown to Las Vegas, where he was incarcerated at the county jail for violating the terms of his bail by attempting to contact Clarence \"C. J.\" Stewart, a co-defendant in the trial. District Attorney David Roger of Clark County provided District Court Judge Jackie Glass with evidence that Simpson had violated his bail terms. A hearing took place on January 16, 2008. Glass raised Simpson's bail to US$250,000 and ordered that he remain in county jail until 15 percent was paid in cash. Simpson posted bond that evening and returned to Miami the next day.\n\nSimpson and his co-defendant were found guilty of all charges on October 3, 2008. On October 10, 2008, Simpson's counsel moved for a new trial (\"trial de novo\") on grounds of judicial errors and insufficient evidence. Simpson's attorney announced he would appeal to the Nevada Supreme Court if Judge Glass denied the motion. The attorney for Simpson's co-defendant, C. J. Stewart, petitioned for a new trial, alleging Stewart should have been tried separately and cited possible misconduct by the jury foreman.\n\nSimpson faced a possible life sentence with parole on the kidnapping charge, and mandatory prison time for armed robbery. On December 5, 2008, Simpson was sentenced to a total of thirty-three years in prison, with the possibility of parole after nine years, in 2017. On September 4, 2009, the Nevada Supreme Court denied a request for bail during Simpson's appeal. In October 2010, the Nevada Supreme Court affirmed his convictions. He served his sentence at the Lovelock Correctional Center where his inmate ID number was #1027820.\n\nA Nevada judge agreed on October 19, 2012, to \"reopen the armed robbery and kidnapping case against O. J. Simpson to determine if the former football star was so badly represented by his lawyers that he should be freed from prison and get another trial\". A hearing was held beginning May 13, 2013, to determine if Simpson was entitled to a new trial. On November 27, 2013, Judge Linda Bell denied Simpson's bid for a new trial on the robbery conviction. In her ruling, Bell wrote that all of Simpson's contentions lacked merit.\n\nOn July 31, 2013, the Nevada Parole Board granted Simpson parole on some convictions, but his imprisonment continued based on the weapons and assault convictions. The board considered Simpson's prior record of criminal convictions and good behavior in prison in coming to the decision. At his parole hearing on July 20, 2017, the board decided to grant Simpson parole. He was released on October 1, 2017, having served nine years.\n\nPablo Fenjves ghostwrote the 2007 book \"If I Did It\" based on interviews with Simpson. The book was published by Beaufort Books, a New York City publishing house owned by parent company Kampmann & Company/Midpoint Trade Books. All rights and proceeds from the book were awarded to the family of murder victim Ron Goldman.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37937913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37937913", "title": "One Last Tour", "text": "One Last Tour\n\nOne Last Tour was a worldwide farewell tour by Swedish electronic dance trio Swedish House Mafia following the announcement of their break-up in June 2012. The tour took place through November 2012 to March 2013.\n\nOn September 24, 2012, Swedish House Mafia announced the dates for their farewell tour appropriately named \"One Last Tour\". The tour kicked off in November 2012 and concluded in March 2013. Due to extremely high demand, additional shows were added, and the group made their final appearance at the Ultra Music Festival with an opening and closing set on March 15 and March 24, 2013, respectively. A note was written and shown at the end of their final performance, with an acapella performance of their final single \"Don't You Worry Child\".\n"}
{"id": "5999543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5999543", "title": "P-Funk Earth Tour", "text": "P-Funk Earth Tour\n\nThe P-Funk Earth Tour was a series of concerts performed by Parliament-Funkadelic in the mid-1970s, featuring absurd costumes, lavish staging and special effects, and music from both the Parliament and Funkadelic repertoires.\n\nThe P-Funk Earth Tour was ambitious from the start. Casablanca Records executive Neil Bogart gave George Clinton a $275,000 budget for production, the largest amount ever allocated for a black music act to tour. Clinton hired Jules Fischer as set designer, who had previously worked on tours for The Rolling Stones, KISS, and other rock bands. Both the show's music and production elements were extensively rehearsed at an aircraft hangar in Newburgh, New York. The show required seven trucks to transport its equipment and scenery. With a broad range of themes embodied in the show's production, culminating in the Afrofuturist landing of the P-Funk Mothership, author Rickey Vincent states that the P-Funk Earth Tour \"drew from the ribald, uncensored entirety of the black tradition in mind-blowing ways no one had yet even attempted.\" \"Rolling Stone\" viewed the tour as embracing Clinton's \"semiserious funk mythology\" with \"[a] mixture of tribal funk, elaborate stage props and the relentless assault on personal inhibition [that] resembled nothing so much as a Space Age Mardi Gras.\" \"The New York Times\" described the tour as featuring \"superbly silly, lavish costumes\" and an \"opulent Baroque ... stage show\".\n\nThe tour began in October 1976 in New Orleans.\nThe 1977 live album \"\" was recorded at two early 1977 concerts, January 19 at the Los Angeles Forum and January 21 at the Oakland Coliseum.\nThe tour drew to a close in mid-1977; its expenses were as high as its innovation level and it was losing money steadily; indeed one tour assistant's job was \"to tell the musicians why they weren't getting paid.\" Nevertheless, the tour served as valuable publicity and marketing for \"the P-Funk brand\", making reference to the greater Parliament-Funkadelic-Clinton enterprise of acts, records, side projects, spin-offs, and so forth.\n\n"}
{"id": "42767188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42767188", "title": "Paradise Roof Garden", "text": "Paradise Roof Garden\n\nHammerstein's Roof Garden (1899 – 1915) was the official name the semi-outdoor vaudeville venue that theatre magnate, Oscar Hammerstein I, built atop the Victoria Theatre and the neighboring Theatre Republic, commonly known then as the Belasco Theatre. Unlike Hammerstein’s first roof garden theatre, which crowned his failed Olympia Theatre, the Paradise Roof Garden was able to rise to prominence and contend with its rivals for the better parts of two decades. For New York City theatre-goers, the name \"Hammerstein’s\" grew to encompass both the Victoria and its roof garden.\nFrom 1904 to 1914 it was run by Willie Hammerstein, who put on highly popular vaudeville acts.\n\nThe construction of the Victoria suffered from an anemic budget, and as a result, its roof garden developed incrementally. It opened in 1899 as the Venetian Terrace Roof Garden and featured a “‘grand promenade’ in the style of Monte Carlo.” The middle of its three tiers consisted of boxes; the third, an open-air café. In compliance with the city’s building code, Hammerstein added eight exits and two elevators to his “solid steel and concrete construction” before summer season of 1902 commenced. He also gained permission to install a roof that could open or close to accommodate the weather.\n\nThe bulk of the theatre rested over the Victoria, leaving the roof of the Belasco free for novelty features, including a pond, a Dutch-style dairy farm, and a windmill. The “Mute Revue” consisted of garden displays that paid tribute to the theatrical hits of the closing season. Just in time for the opening of the summer season of 1907, the entire venue was upgraded: the house was repainted in white and blue with splashes of red, and the boxes were remodeled and decked with geraniums.\n\nIn addition to entertainment, the open-air Paradise Roof Garden offered patrons escape from the city’s oppressive summer heat. The table-and-chair seating configuration encouraged conversation in a house that was vulnerable to sunlight and outside noise; simple, wordless variety entertainment was well suited to such conditions. Some of the “dumb acts” that played on the roof included Barnold’s Dog and Monkey Pantomime Company, and wire-walker Bird Millman; in fact, William Glackens’s painting, titled simply \"Hammerstein’s Roof Garden\", depicts such an act.\n\nAs advancements in air-conditioning were rendering New York’s roof garden theatres obsolete, silent movies were luring patrons out of vaudeville theatres. With the selling of the Victoria in 1915, the roof garden closed as well.\n"}
{"id": "620116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620116", "title": "Peaceful Revolution", "text": "Peaceful Revolution\n\nThe Peaceful Revolution () was the process of sociopolitical change that led to the end of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED) in the German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany) and the transition to a parliamentary democracy which enabled the reunification of Germany. This turning point was wholly created through the violence-free initiatives, protests, and successful demonstrations, which decisively occurred between the local elections held in May 1989 and the GDR's first free parliamentary election in March 1990.\n\nThese events were closely linked to the Soviet Union's decision under the leadership of Mikhail Gorbachev to abandon its hegemony in Eastern Europe as well as the reformist movements that spread through the region as a result. In addition to the Soviet Union's shift in foreign policy – part of its glasnost and perestroika reforms – the GDR's lack of competitiveness within an increasingly global market as well as its sharply rising national debt hastened the destabilization of the SED's one-party state and the success of the revolution.\n\nThose driving the reform process within the GDR included intellectuals and church figures, who had been in underground opposition for several years, the significant amount of people attempting to flee the country – thus displaying a clear sign of the discontentment with the SED regime – as well as the rising number of peaceful demonstrators who were no longer willing to yield to the threat of violence and repression by the authorities.\n\nOn account of its hostile response to the reforms implemented within its \"socialist brother lands\", the SED leadership was already increasingly isolated within the Eastern Bloc by the time it finally decided to abstain from the use of force to suppress the ever-larger public demonstrations and permitted the opening of the border at the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989. Through a change in leadership and a willingness to talk with opponents, the SED initially attempted to win back the political initiative. However, due to the continued political instability and the threat of national bankruptcy, control of the situation increasingly lay with the West German government under Chancellor Helmut Kohl.\n\nFrom the start of December 1989, the GDR government of Prime Minister Hans Modrow was influenced from a Central Round Table, at which the dissolution of the suppressive state security service, the Stasi, was put into action and preparations were made for free elections. After a sweeping and surprising election win for the conservative and nationalist \"Alliance for Germany\" coalition, the political path within the GDR was now clear for a swift reunification of the two German states.\n\nA fundamental shift in the policy of the Soviet Union under Mikhail Gorbachev toward the Eastern Bloc nations was the background for large numbers of the East German population to show active dissent against SED regime in the GDR.\n\nUpon becoming elected General Secretary of the Soviet Union in 1985, Gorbachev abolished the Soviet claim of leadership over the internal developments of the \"socialist brother lands\". The Brezhnev Doctrine that had seen the Warsaw Pact invade Czechoslovakia in 1968 to quell the Prague Spring liberal reforms was replaced by the so-called Sinatra Doctrine; this policy announcement was in fact retrospective as the Soviet Union had already failed to militarily intervene – despite urging from the GDR leader Erich Honecker – during the Polish crisis of 1980–81.\n\nGorbachev's decision largely stemmed from the lack of economic development within the Eastern Bloc in comparison to the western industrial nations due to the persistence of increasingly incompatible production structures and the failure to create service-orientated, micro-electronic or globalized industries. The Soviet Union therefore increasingly lacked the materials to continue the arms race with the Reagan-era United States – particularly with a drawn-out war in Afghanistan – and the resources to control Central and Eastern Europe. With his economic and sociopolitical reform program as well as his disarmament initiatives, Gorbachev therefore sought to take appropriate steps.\n\nHaving initiated a policy of \"glasnost\" (openness) and emphasized the need for \"perestroika\" (economic restructuring), Gorbachev essentially permitted the six member states of the Warsaw Pact to now each take their own direction with their own reforms. While those reforms implemented the Soviet Union were met with broad approval by the peoples across the other Eastern Bloc nations – in particular amongst students and academics – the respective governments of the region reacted at first with reserve and later, in part, with rejection of the reforms.\n\nThe fact that the GDR was a second German state, subject to western recognition and the wide influences from the West German side, meant it was considered to be of particular importance among the Eastern Bloc nations to the Soviet Union. As the weak outpost of the Iron Curtain, the GDR profited from both a unique economic relationship with the Soviet Union and a relatively stable supply situation. It was notably the only Warsaw Pact member to have large numbers of Soviet troops permanently stationed on its territory.\n\nHowever, Gorbachev's reforms soured relations between the GDR leadership and the Soviet Union as the SED showed an increasingly clear dissociation from these policies. Information about the new developments in the Soviet Union was also placed under stronger censorship. In an interview with the weekly \"Stern\" magazine in March 1987, the SED's chief ideologist Kurt Hager commented disparagingly on perestroika: \"If your neighbour wallpapered his apartment, would you also feel obliged to wallpaper your apartment?\"\n\nA further escalation of this hostility occurred in Autumn 1988 when the SED banned the Soviet monthly journal Sputnik, which had a circulation in the GDR of 190,000, on account of its supposedly distorted historical articles. This provoked a wave of protests from those in the GDR population, including even many SED members. At the turn of the year 1988/89 GDR leader Erich Honecker began speaking of \"socialism in the colours of the GDR\" to emphasize the countries' differences in policy.\n\nSince the start of the 1970s, Honecker had led social policies built on debt such as wage and pension increases, highly subsidized consumer prices, and large-scale home construction programs. When Günter Ehrensperger, the leading economic expert in the SED Central Committee at the time, informed Honecker in November 1973 that the national debt would increase under the current economic direction from 2 to 20 billion Valutamark by 1980, he was forbidden by Honecker from calculating such scenarios and ordered to destroy all evidence relating to such projections.\n\nIn 1981, a reduction in Soviet oil deliveries at special rates brought the GDR's planned economy into difficulties and throughout the decade insolvency was only avoided due to western credit. By the end of the 1980s GDR productivity in comparison to the FRG lay at only 30%. It was attempted at high cost to become a producer of micro electronics. Even the official presentation in September 1988 of a 1-Megabit-Speicher that was firstly developed in the GDR, couldn't mask the slow speed of development in comparison with the West. Nonetheless, as late as August 1989, Honecker assured at a symbolic handing over of the first 32-Bit chip produced in the GDR that: \"Neither an ox nor a donkey is able to stop the progress of socialism\".\n\nReform of the economic system was rejected, with the chairman of \nthe country's trade union federation Harry Tisch explaining to the Politbüro on 29 August 1989: \"If the economic basis is formed in a capitalist manner, the socialist superstructure cannot be maintained\".\n\nOutdated production facilities and methods were not only economically inefficient but also caused environmental damage and affected people's health. There were barely any ecologically intact flowing waters and lakes; the means were lacking for more effective environmental protection. In some especially affected regions of Leipzig-Halle-Bitterfeld, loud speaker announcements were made to keep windows and doors closed. The legal but counterproductive measures of environmental protection created further hostility toward the regime.\n\nAs a consequence of the already heated political mood, the planned local elections of May 1989 took on greater significance than usual. GDR citizens had long become accustomed to casting their vote by simply folding their ballot paper containing the confirmed candidate list and placing it in the ballot box without even using the voting booths. However, after falsified electoral results at some polling stations in 1986 had been noted by oppositional observers, such controls were now supposed to be systematically carried out in all regions. Since the previous summer, different groups – mostly religious in nature – had called on Christians in the GDR to actively intervene in the preparation of the election on 7 May 1989.\n\nIn the face of rising unrest, the SED wanted as impressive an election result as possible and took precautionary action to achieve this. Hence, all those who had applied to travel abroad, known opponents of the regime and those who had failed to vote in past elections were all removed from the electoral roll. By the same token, by mid-April 1989, more than 80,000 people declared their non-participation in the election. Under the codename \"Symbol 89\", the Stasi undertook measures to hinder non-participation. Parallel to this, there was also the attempt to give this election a notably democratic feel. People were asked to raise their concerns with the National Front coalition and to involve themselves in the selection of the candidates. Attempts by independent groups to select different candidates, however, failed almost without exception.\n\nOn election day itself, 7 May 1989, there were some unusual aspects. In many places individuals only handed their voting cards in at the polling stations in order to demonstrate their refusal to vote; this added to large queues in front of the otherwise mostly unused voting booths. Electoral observers identified an estimate electoral turnout of around 60-80% in their voting spots and abstentions of between 3–30%. When Egon Krenz as Chairman of the Electoral Commission announced a 98.85% approval vote for the National Front candidates, this was viewed by many – not only by regime critics – as clear evidence of electoral fraud. There were districts in East Berlin where independent election observers at a selection of polling stations reported clearly counted more \"no\" votes than the official result for the entire area reported; a subsequent 1993 trial would find Hans Modrow and three other associates guilty of altering the results.\n\nOver the following weeks, a multitude of criminal complaints, petitions and protest actions against the suspected fraud led to a large number of disputes and countless arrests. The public opposition to this was on a scale not before seen, bringing together those who had applied to leave the country and other opponents at events such as the Alexanderplatz demonstration in Berlin on 4 November 1989.\n\nThe ability to freely travel from the GDR to non-socialist nations was only granted to select groups such as pensioners or performers considered to be basically loyal to the party as well as athletes going to take part in competition. Aside from such situations, travel was only permitted for urgent family situations, and only then generally granted to individuals whose family would meanwhile remain back in the GDR. Serious requests to permanently leave the GDR with one's family and belongings were, aside from highly restricted \"humanitarian reasons\", not tolerated and would result in the suffering of social marginalization and discrimination. Those who entered such applications, regardless of the harassment they knew they would face, normally had to reckon with a waiting list lasting years, or until West Germany simply \"bought them out\".\n\nBy 1989, there was effectively an understanding between the Warsaw Pact members that each would prevent citizens from exiting the Eastern bloc. Discovered attempts to flee, such as via Hungary into Austria, resulted in people being returned to the GDR, which would impose lengthy prison terms on a charge of an \"attempted illegal border crossing\". However, in the course of a reformist agenda as well as for economic reasons, Hungary began in May 1989 to firstly relax then eventually cease military control of its borders, thereby creating the first gap in the Iron Curtain.\n\nWhen summer holidays began in the GDR at the start of July 1989, more than 200,000 people made their way to Hungary, the majority simply as holiday-makers but thousands also with the intention to flee. A Pan-European Picnic on 19 August at Sopron, Hungary, supposedly dedicated to the new perspectives for Europe, was used by 800-900 people as a chance to flee into Austria. By the start of August, word had spread that Hungary would not make any record of any person attempting to flee, removing the potential risk of future sanction from the GDR. Many therefore traveled to Hungary, often simply abandoning their cars there once they neared the border.\n\nOnce Hungary officially opened its borders to the waiting GDR citizens on 11 September 1989, some 15,000 people fled within the first three days, rising to almost 20,000 by the end of the month. In response, travel to Hungary was no longer permitted by the GDR authorities. Upon this decision, the West German embassies in Prague and Warsaw became overfilled with GDR citizens claiming their right to leave. When this congestion soon brought hygiene problems and the threat of disease, and with the refusal of the Czech government to have to deal with the problems of the GDR, Honecker felt compelled to allow the GDR refugees to travel as they wished. On 30 September the West German foreign minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher announced from the balcony of the embassy in Prague that those within the embassy grounds would be allowed to travel into the FRG via a train journey through the GDR; around 4,700 people left from the Prague embassy and a further 809 from Warsaw.\n\nOn 3 October, a further 6,000 people had forced themselves into the ground of the Prague embassy, with thousands more en route there too. The GDR leadership had to once more permit their exit by traveling on special trains through the GDR. Attempting to limit the exodus, the GDR closed its border with Czechoslovakia, which led to further outrage, particularly from those had been depending on that border. Those already close to the border, headed to Dresden where the trains containing those allowed to travel were expected to pass through. Here, protests and violent confrontations with police and special forces broke out, in which not only those wishing to leave the country but those regime opponents content to stay were also involved.\n\nChaplain Frank Richter attempted to deescalate the situation on 8 October by convincing demonstrators and police to instead negotiate. Twenty demonstrators were chosen to take part in talks with the Dresden Mayor Berghofer who had declared himself prepared to talk after church intervention. Events in Dresden showed the unity between the two great opposition forces, as \"we want out\" was countered with \"we're staying here\".\n\nParallel to the rising tide of those fleeing the GDR during summer 1989 occurred the formation and expansion of opposition groups focused on reforming the GDR. As a result, a number of new and (for the SED) subversive political organizations were created, beginning with the founding of the New Forum on 9–10 September 1989. Among its most noted members at the time were Katja Havemann, Rolf Henrich and Bärbel Bohley.\n\nExpressly constituted not as a party but as a \"political platform\", the New Forum focused on the collapsed lines of communication between the state and society. It demanded an open dialogue about \"the functions of the constitutional state, the economy and culture\". They hoped for better goods and supply, but were also concerned by the costs and economic consequences. It called for economic initiatives but wanted to counter an \"elbow society\".\n\nThe calls of the New Forum prompted other opposition groups to now step into the spotlight with their own specific demands and political visions. \"Democracy Now\" emerged with its hope of a democratically reformed socialism with a Christian and critical accent - similarly against the western consumer society. On 1 October a further political group in the shape of \"Democratic Awakening\" with the regime critics Rainer Eppelmann and Friedrich Schorlemmer also entered the fray.\n\nMany of these new groups consciously formed themselves not as political parties but instead used terms like forum, league or movement, which placed themselves within the concept of a civil movement. They placed value on basic democracy, openness and transparency in decision-making, in which interested non-members should also be able to participate.\n\nThe reformation of the Social Democratic Party on 7 October 1989, the 40th anniversary of the GDR's founding, which soon came under the leadership of the evangelical theologians Martin Gutzeit and Markus Meckel, was also of note.\n\nThe forming of oppositional groups across the GDR against the SED regime and the growing willingness of the populace to demonstrate became an additional threat to those in power, who were already overburdened with the problem of those fleeing the country.\n\nAttempting to scare off protesters, the SED used the events that had unfolded around the time of the GDR elections in PR China where an oppositional student movement had demonstrated on 17 April 1989 in Beijing. On the occasion of a state visit from Gorbachev, which drew media attention from across the world, a million people came together to protest on 15–18 May. A day after Gorbachev departed, though, martial law was declared and during the night of 3/4 June 1989 the Chinese military was put into action against the opposition, leading to the Tiannamen Square massacre. The violent suppression of the opposition left thousands dead and tens of thousands injured across China.\n\nThe Chinese response to the protesters was viewed positively by the SED regime. The edition of the official party newspaper \"Neues Deutschland\" on 5 June 1989 carried the headline: \"China's liberation army defeats counter-revolutionary rioting\". A statement read in the Peoples Chamber announced that law and order [in China] had been restored following disorder created by elements acting against the constitution.\n\nIn the weeks from the start of October until the opening of the border in November, it was completely unclear to both those affected and those watching on, whether the GDR leadership would seek to save itself using the \"Chinese solution\". As a precaution, the national army of the GDR was placed on high combat readiness during 6–9 October.\n\nThe SED wanted the jubilee celebrations on 7 October 1989 to pass as smoothly as possible. They therefore allowed the speedy deportation of the embassy refugees and also permitted their family members to follow.\n\nHowever, problems had already arisen during the run-up to the day: Rejected invites from guests, those selected to receive honors stayed away and all sorts of abandoned events. On the day of the anniversary, western journalists were denied entry to the country. Here and there, anti-celebratory events took place. At peace prayers, the 40th anniversary celebrations were partly critically mentioned; in Gotha, for example, forty candles were extinguished as a symbol of extinguished hope. Gorbachev, who had traveled for the celebrations, saw the writing on the wall for the SED regime.\n\nAside from the official celebrations, there were also many demonstrations of protest across the GDR: From protesters who congregated on the 7th of each month at the Alexanderplatz in Berlin to remember the electoral fraud, a protest march was formed that headed toward the Palace of the Republic, where the main celebratory banquet was taking place. The growing crowd of around 3,000 made its presence known with chants of \"Gorbi, Gorbi\", \"no violence\" and \"democracy - now or never\". However, under pressure from the security forces guarding the venue, the crowd could not directly reach it and instead swerved away to Prenzlauer Berg, where over 2,000 people were at the time gathered in the Gethsemane Church.\n\nIn total, 1,200 arrests were made, including people completely uninvolved. The majority were released from custody within 24 hours but reported being beaten, kicked, spat at or denied usage of a toilet. Unlike the other protests across the GDR, the events in East Berlin were directly reported in western media. While GDR citizens were officially prohibited from receiving western media, only a small portion of the population willingly abstained for ideological reasons. Some regions in the north-east and south-east were however closed off from West German television because they lay outside the transmitter range (satirically known as the so-called Valley of the Clueless).\n\nOf all the events seeking a peaceful and successful conclusion to the uprising against the SED dictatorship, the mass demonstrations in Leipzig under the watch of international publicity would become most pivotal. Here, over 10,000 people had already forced their way past police lines on 2 October 1989 and marched to the St Thomas Church after peace prayers in the St Nicholas Church and the Reformed Church. They countered Honecker's verbal attacks on them in the media with the chant: \"We're no hooligans\". This was spontaneously turned from a denial to a positive statement, which became the slogan of this revolution: \"We are the people!\".\n\nAt the following Monday demonstration in Leipzig on 9 October – two days after the 40th anniversary celebrations – the SED leadership initially hoped to restore its authority against the protesters. In addition to 8,000 armed security personnel, a further 5,000 people connected to the SED were supposed to mix themselves in plain clothes in among the demonstrators and cause disruption.\n\nThat the planned suppression of the Monday demonstration on 9 October was not seriously attempted did not lie solely with the fact that the planned police tactics were unlikely to have succeeded due to the scale of the crowd. The atmosphere of this demonstration was also influenced by an appeal for no violence by the three prominent Leipzig figures had agreed with three SED local party functionaries, and which had been broadcast over local radio during the day. In this, dialogue and contemplation was promoted.\n\nOpinion among the SED chiefs was split upon how to react. Egon Krenz declared in advance of the event in Leipzig that it could not come to violent means, even if the security forces themselves became attacked. When Krenz was telephoned by chief officer Helmut Hackenberg in Leipzig at 18:30 to confirm that there should be no action taken, he assured Hackenberg that he would call him back swiftly. However, while he did indeed confirm that, 45 minutes had by then passed, during which time most demonstrators had departed.\n\nThe peaceful passing-off of this demonstration encouraged many that reforms could be peacefully reached in the GDR and hereafter people became ever more willing to go on to the street. On 4 November the largest protest demonstration in GDR history took place at the Berlin Alexanderplatz. An estimated 500,000 attended the event, where civil rights campaigners, poets, actors and some political figures broke from the SED regime and declared their reform demands.\n\nLeading up the 40th anniversary celebrations, the SED leadership had used all available means to curtail the wave of people leaving the country and the pressure (both domestically and internationally) to reform. When the celebrations of 7 October 1989 failed to create the desired effect, the disillusionment became resounding. Ever since Honecker's health began to decline due to a bilious complaint that first struck at the Bucharest summit of the Warsaw Pact leaders in early July 1989 - at which the parting from the Brezhnev Doctrine and the principle to not become involved in the domestic situations of the individual states was officially laid down - an overriding sense of helplessness had set into the SED Politburo in the face of the growing opposition to their leadership of the country and the dictatorial status of the party.\n\nAs Honecker rejected each of Krenz's proposed changes of course following the flawed anniversary celebrations, Krenz secured himself the support of other Politburo members in order to overthrow Honecker and become his successor on 18 October 1989. His first keynote speech before the SED's Central Committee was broadcast on East German television, in which he abstained from the popular terms \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\" and instead set a future course of reforms on his own terms: \"I must find a German term that both allows a turning to the proven ways of the GDR for 40 years but that also makes clear that we turn away from all that has brought our country to the current situation. With today's congress we will begin a turning point. Above all, we will regain the political and ideological offensive\".\n\nKrenz himself admitted in hindsight that this speech took the wrong note: \"The people don't want to hear any more long speeches that sound like party reports. They want to know: Who is responsible for the country standing in the abyss? What are the causes? How should it go forward?\". The change of power from Honecker to Krenz failed to quell the discontent within the country and Krenz's offer of a dialogue that should win the SED back \"the political and ideological offensive\" fizzled out in the hands of the party representatives within a few weeks.\n\nAfter Krenz had called for an \"unvarnished picture of the economic situation\", the report of a commission led by Gerhard Schürer offered little comfort. For a country to be credit worthy, its debt service ratio should not grow beyond 25%. In 1989, the GDR's debt-service ratio according to Schürer's figures was 150%. The commission was unable to suggest any way out of the situation and reported that an end to debt would mean an expected 25-30% decline in living standards in 1990 and make the country ungovernable.\n\nThe finger pointing was not limited to those closest to Honecker but also directed at the entire leadership. On 1 December 1989, the People's Chamber struck the SED's right to govern from the GDR constitution. The Politburo and SED Central Committee resigned \"en masse\" under mounting internal and external pressure on 3 December 1989, and three days later, Krenz also resigned as chairman of the privy council.\n\nThat there couldn't remain the makeshift exit from the GDR across Czechoslovakia and that a travel law was now needed, which also had to offer reasonable conditions to those willing to return again, was by this point now clear to most of those in power in the SED.\n\nA draft travel law published in \"Neues Deutschland\" on 6 November was negatively received by the people and in the People's Chamber. A new bill by the head of the passport department Gerhard Lauter was put before the Central Committee by Krenz and quickly debated and rubber-stamped. With the paper handed over by Krenz – and bearing some additional changes from the Central Committee session – Günter Schabowski attended a press conference with the international media that was also broadcast live on East German television. Responding to a question by the Italian ANSA correspondent Riccardo Ehrman, Schabowski answered that the possibility to travel across the border into West German territory \"without the existence of preconditions\" existed \"immediately, without delay\". The new conditions were however only meant to come into effect from 4 am on the following day but this information had only been verbally shared at the Politburo sitting, at which Schabowski had not been present.\n\nThe reaction to the statement was instantaneous as news spread across western media that the GDR had abandoned its border controls. The West German parliament in Bonn interrupted its evening session to sing the national anthem. In East Berlin, more and more people made their way to the inner-city border checkpoints. No information had been conveyed to staff at the checkpoints though and it was only under pressure from the large crowd numbers that the first East Berliners were permitted to pass into West Berlin. Lieutenant-Colonel Harald Jäger ordered all passports to be stamped as henceforth invalid, thereby expatriating those leaving the GDR without their knowledge. The first crossings occurred at Bornholmer Strasse at 9.20pm. By 11:30 pm, attempts to stamp all passports were abandoned and the control barrier raised with the remaining checkpoints in Berlin then also being opened.\n\nDuring the following hours, Berliners from both sides of the city celebrated at the wall as well as on both sides of the border after 28 years of separation. Checkpoints along the inner German border were also passable on this night. The following weekend also brought a huge wave of travelers as the East German authorities issued more than four million visas for travel into the west.\n\nThe fall of the Berlin Wall and opening of the inner German border set new challenges for both the government and opposition in the GDR as well as those in power in the FRG. These events also brought wider world into play, with Germany's European neighbors and the four victors of World War II having their own input. General opinion saw the fate of the GDR resting upon the attitude of the Soviet Union under Gorbachev. In his memoirs, West German chancellor Helmut Kohl wrote that he had confronted the Soviet head during his visit to the FRG in June 1989 with the view that German unity would arrive - even against opposition - as surely as the Rhein that the two looked upon would arrive at the sea; Gorbachev did not dispute this.\n\nAfter 9 November there was not only a growing wave of demonstrations across the GDR, but also a strong shift in the prevailing attitude to solutions. Instead of the chant \"we are the people\", the new and ever-more-heard refrain was \"we are one people!\". An unsolved problem for both the East and the West remained the continually high numbers moving from the GDR to the FRG, which created an ever-destabilizing effect in the GDR while also placing an ever-larger burden on the FRG to handle and integrate such large numbers.\n\nOn the day the Berlin Wall fell, West German chancellor Kohl and his foreign minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher were on a state visit to Poland that was cut short to allow Kohl to directly react to the new situation. Only a day earlier, Kohl had set out new conditions for closer collaboration with the GDR leadership within a document entitled \"Report on the state of the nation in divided Germany\": The SED's abandonment of its monopoly on power, the allowing of independent parties, free elections and the building up of a market economy. During a telephone conversation on 11 November with SED General Secretary Egon Krenz – who stressed the positivity of the border opening and \"radical reforms\", but insisted that reunification was not on the agenda – Kohl conceded that the creation of \"reasonable relations\" was currently most pressing.\n\nAt first Kohl refrained from pushing through his wish for reunification to avoid raising the expected annoyance abroad about the topic. His closest foreign adviser at the time, Horst Teltschik, took confidence though from opinion polls on 20 November, which showed 70% of West Germans to be favor of reunification and that 48% considered it possible within ten years. More than 75% approved financial aid for the GDR, though without tax increases to fund it. From a conversation with Nikolai Portugalow, a high-ranking emissar of Gorbachev's, Teilschik learned that Hans Modrow's suggestion of a treaty between the two German states had already prompted the Soviets to plan for \"the unthinkable\".\n\nWith Kohl's blessing, Teltschik developed a path toward German unification. To his ten-point plan, entitled the \"Ten Point Program for Overcoming the Division of Germany and Europe\", Kohl added some additions and surprised all by reading it out in parliament on 28 November. Starting with immediate measures, the path shall flow through a contractual arrangement and the development of confederative structures to conclude with one federation.\n\nThe plan was broadly accepted in parliament even by the opposition with the exception of the Green Party that endorsed the independence of the GDR, like many GDR civil liberties campaigners, in \"a third way\". The SPD was partly skeptical and divided. While the former chancellor Willy Brandt coined the expression on 10 November: \"What now grows together, belongs together\". Oscar Lafontaine, soon to be nominated as the SPD's chancellor candidate, picked out the central themes of the GDR as being the incalculable financial risks and the curtailing of the number of those leaving.\n\nThe sudden announcement of Kohl's ten-point plan caused substantial irritation among European heads of states and Soviet chief Gorbachev. British Premier Margaret Thatcher saw international stability becoming endangered and raised doubts about the peacefulness of a united and restrengthened Germany. French President François Mitterrand was concerned that the German government could give up its tight commitment to the European integration process and instead focus on its national interests and ambitions for power. In early December 1989, he sought with Gorbachev to ensure \"that the whole European process develops faster than the German question and that it overtakes the German development. We must form pan-European structures\". Gorbachev informed West German foreign minister Genscher that Kohl was behaving \"like a bull in a china shop\".\n\nIn light of these frosty reaction, the West German government viewed a meeting of the four Allied Powers in the Berlin Building of the Allied Government on 11 December 1989 as a demonstrative affront. Only the US government, under George H. W. Bush at this time, offered the West German chancellor support by already setting out the day after Kohl's 10-point plan its own interests in any potential German reunification.\n\nKohl stressed that the driving factor behind the developments was the GDR populace and not the FRG government, which was itself surprised by the dynamics of events and had to react. He aimed to preempt a state visit by Mitterrand to the GDR on 20–22 December 1989 and planned talks with Minister President Modrow. Visiting Dresden on 19 December, Kohl spoke before a crowd of 100,000, who broke out into cheers when he stated: \"My goal remains - if the historical hour allows - the uniting of our nation\".\n\nWhen Mitterrand realized that, with the rapid change of circumstances in the GDR, controlling development from outside was not possible, he sought to commit the West German government to a foreseeable united Germany on two matters: On the final recognition of Poland's western border and on quickened European integration through the establishment of a currency union. In January 1990, the Soviet Union sent understanding signals by appealing to West Germany for food deliveries due to supply shortages. On 10 February 1990, Kohl and his advisers had positive talks with Gorbachev in Moscow, which freed up the path to reunification.\n\nAfter his election as Minister President in the People's Chamber on 13 November 1989, Hans Modrow affirmed in his government statement of 16 November that – from the GDR viewpoint – reunification was not on the agenda.\n\nSince the end of October opposition groups had called for the creations of a round table. They released a communal statement: \"In light of the critical situation in our country, which can no longer be controlled by the previous power and responsibility structures, we demand that representatives of the GDR population come together to negotiate at a round table, in order to established conditions for constitutional reform and for free elections.\n\nAimed at her fellow citizens, the East German author Christa Wolf – who, on the night before the opening of the border had called for people to remain in the GDR – read out an appeal on television on 28 November entitled \"For Our Country\", whose first 31 signatures of support came from GDR artists and civil liberties campaigners as well as critical SED members. During a press conference on the same day, the author Stefan Heym also read out the appeal and within a few days, it had received 1.17 million signatures. It called for \"a separate identity for the GDR\" to be established and warned against a \"sell-out of our material and moral values\" through reunification, stating there was still \"the chance to develop a socialist alternative to the FRG as an equal partner amongst the states of Europe\".\n\nAt the first meeting of the Central Round Table on 7 December the participants defined the function of the new body as an advisory and decision-making institution. Unlike the Polish example for this body, where the Solidarity delegates confronted the government, the Central Round Table in the GDR was formed from representatives of numerous new oppositional groups on one side and delegates made up in equal number from the SED, bloc parties and the SED-linked mass organizations on the other. To the approval of both sides, church representatives acted as moderators.\n\nThe socialist reform program of Modrow's government lacked support both domestically and internationally. On a visit to Moscow at the end of January 1990, Modrow admitted to Gorbachev: \"The growing majority of the GDR population no longer supports the idea of the existence of two German states; it no longer seems possible to sustain this idea.[…] If we don't grasp the initiative now, then the process already set in motion will spontaneously and eruptively continue onward without us being able to have any influence upon it\".\n\nIn order to expand the basis of trust for his own government at least for the transitional phase until free elections, Modrow offered the opposition groups at the Central Round Table on 22 January the chance to participate in government. The majority of these groups agreed a counter offer of placing candidates from the Central Round Table in a non-party transitional government. Modrow considered this an attempt to dismantle his government and rejected these suggestions on 28 January. After lengthy negotiations and Modrow's threatening to resign, the opposition relented and accepted a place in the government as \"ministers without portfolio\". However, when Modrow committed to a one-nation Germany a few days later, the United Left withdrew its acceptance due to \"a breach of trust\" and rejected being involving in the government.\n\nAfter the entry into the cabinet on 5 February 1990, all nine new \"ministers\" traveled with Hans Modrow to Bonn for talks with the West German government on 13 February. As had already occurred during Kohl's visit to Dresden two months earlier, Modrow was denied the immediate financial support to avoid the threat of insolvency (although a prospective currency union had already been on offer for several days). The talks were largely unproductive, with Kohl unwilling to make any decisive appointments with the pivotal election only weeks away.\n\nThe peaceful revolution is regularly commemorated and celebrated in Germany and other countries. On 18 September 2014, German president Joachim Gauck welcomed the heads of states of (partly) German-speaking countries Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein to Mecklenburg. They met in Bad Doberan, Warnemünde and the city of Rostock to commemorate the peaceful revolution of 1989 and to address the challenges of demographic change in Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "245520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245520", "title": "Peacemakers: The Paris Peace Conference of 1919 and Its Attempt to End War", "text": "Peacemakers: The Paris Peace Conference of 1919 and Its Attempt to End War\n\nPeacemakers: The Paris Peace Conference of 1919 and Its Attempt to End War (2001) is a historical narrative about the events of the Paris Peace Conference of 1919. It was written by the Canadian historian Margaret MacMillan with a foreword by American diplomat Richard Holbrooke. The book has also been published under the titles Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World and Peacemakers: Six Months That Changed the World.\n\n\"Peacemakers\" describes the six months of negotiations that took place in Paris, France following World War I. The book focuses on the \"Big Three\", photographed together on its cover (left to right): Prime Minister David Lloyd George of the United Kingdom, Premier Georges Clemenceau of France, and President Woodrow Wilson of the United States.\n\nThe book argues that the conditions imposed on Germany in the Treaty of Versailles did not lead to the rise of Adolf Hitler, asking the question: Was the Great War \"an unmitigated catastrophe in a sea of mud\", or \"about something\", and concluding \"It is condescending and wrong to think they were hoodwinked.\"\n\nBritish World War I Prime Minister David Lloyd George is the author's great-grandfather.\n\nThe book was first published in Britain. It has won the £5,000 Duff Cooper Prize for an outstanding literary work in the field of history, biography or politics, the £3,000 Hessell-Tiltman Prize for History, the prestigious BBC Samuel Johnson Prize for the best work of non-fiction published in the United Kingdom and the 2003 Governor General's Literary Award in Canada.\n\nThe book has been adapted as a 2009 docudrama film entitled \"Paris 1919,\" by Paul Cowan, produced by the National Film Board of Canada. MacMillan recorded a related series of fourteen lectures for the audiobook \"Six Months That Changed the World: The Paris Peace Conference of 1919\" (Recorded Books, The Modern Scholar series, 2003).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32315379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32315379", "title": "Refugees of Libya", "text": "Refugees of Libya\n\nRefugees of the Libyan Civil War are the people, predominantly Libyans, who fled or were expelled from their homes during the Libyan Civil War, from within the borders of Libya to the neighbouring states of Tunisia, Egypt and Chad, as well as to European countries across the Mediterranean. The majority of Libyan refugees are Arabs and Berbers, though many of the other ethnicities temporarily living in Libya originated from sub-Saharan Africa. These groups were also among the first refugee waves to exit the country. The total number of Libyan refugees were estimated at around one million as of June 2011 and most returned after the civil war ended. As of January 2013, there were 5,252 refugees originating from Libya alongside 59,425 internally displaced persons registered by the UNHCR. \n\nAccording to a Le Monde article dated May 13, 2014, there were between 600,000 and 1,000,000 Libyan refugees in Tunisia, many of which were political opponents of the present forces in power in Libya, and many of which are supporters of the Jamahiriya of Muammar Gaddafi. This represented between 10 and 15% of the population of Libya prior to the NATO intervention.\n\nAccording to journalist Barbara Slavin, reporting for Al Monitor on August 5, 2014, Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki stated that two million Libyans, or one third of the pre NATO intervention population of Libya, have taken refuge in Tunisia.\n\nFleeing the violence of Tripoli by road, as many as 4,000 refugees were crossing the Libya–Tunisia border daily during the first days of the 2011 civil war. Among those escaping the violence were native Libyans as well as foreign nationals including Egyptians, Tunisians and Turks.\n\nBy 1 March 2011, officials from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees had confirmed allegations of discrimination against sub-Saharan Africans who were held in dangerous conditions in the no-man's-land between Tunisia and Libya. On 10 May 2011, The Week posted an article claiming that roughly 746,000 people have fled Libya since the war began.\n\nA provisional refugee camp was set up at Ras Ajdir on the Libyan-Tunisian border and had a capacity for 10,000, but was overflowing with an estimated 20,000 to 30,000 refugees. By 3 March 2011, the situation there was described as a logistical nightmare, with the World Health Organization warning of the risk of epidemics. To continue responding to the needs of people staying at the Ras Ajdir crossing point in Tunisia, the WFP and Secours Islamique-France upgraded a kitchen that would provide breakfast for families. Separately, the ICRC advised it was handing over its operations at the Choucha Camp to the Tunisian Red Crescent. Since 24 March 2011, the WFP supplied over 42,500 cooked meals for TCNs at the Sallum border. A total of 1,650 cartons of fortified date bars (equivalent of 13.2 metric tons) had also been provided to supplement these meals.\n\nOver 500 mostly Berber Libyans fled their homes in Libya's Nafusa Mountains and took shelter in the Dehiba area of southeastern Tunisia between 5 and 12 April 2011.\n\n\"The Sunday Telegraph\" reported on 11 September that almost the entire population of Tawergha, a town of about 10,000 people, had been forced to flee their homes by anti-Gaddafi fighters after their takeover of the settlement. The report suggested that Tawergha, which was dominated by black Libyans, may have been the subject of an ethnic cleansing provoked by a combination of racism and bitterness on the part of Misratan fighters over the Tawergha's support for Gaddafi during the siege of Misrata.\n\nOn 1 October 2011, Red Cross official Abdelhamid al-Mendi said that more than 50,000 Libyans had fled their homes in Benghazi since the war began in February.\n\nAs of January 2013, there were 5,252 refugees originating from Libya alongside 59,425 internally displaced persons. However the Le Monde article of May 14, 2014 stated that \"Estimates of their numbers vary between 600,000 and one million by the Tunisian Ministry of Interior. If we add those, many also settled in Egypt, they would be nearly two million Libyans today outside the borders of a total population estimated at just over six million inhabitants.\"\n\nAccording to journalist Barbara Slavin, reporting for Al Monitor on August 5, 2014, Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki stated that two million Libyans, or one third of the pre NATO intervention population of Libya, have taken refuge in Tunisia.\n\nBenghazi is the area that hosts the largest share of identified IDPs, with 115,000 IDPs residing there, which as a group account for (27.6%) of all IDPs in Libya. It is followed by Ajdabiya with 31,750 of IDPs (7.6%), Bayda with 21,500 IDPs (5.2%), Abu Salim with 21,475 IDPs (5.1%), Bani Waled with 20,000 IDPs (4.8%), Alzintan with 19,425 IDPs (4.7%), Tobruk with 16,375 (3.9%), Al Ajaylat with 13,500 IDPs (3.2%), Janzour with 10,105 IDP (2.4%), Sabha with 7,215 (1.7%), and Tarhuna with 7,150 IDPs (1.7%). Combined, these 10 locations account for 67.9% of the total identified IDP population. The 31 areas shown in the table below jointly host 87.1 % of the total identified IDP population.\n\nFollowing the 2011 revolution in Tunisia and the civil war in Libya, the Italian island of Lampedusa saw a boom in irregular arrivals of refugees from those countries. In February, Italian Foreign Minister Frattini expressed his concerns that the amount of Libyan refugees trying to reach Italy might reach between 200,000 and 300,000 people. More than 45,000 refugees arrived on Lampedusa in the first five months of 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "47411280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47411280", "title": "Rescator", "text": "Rescator\n\nRescator is the name of a Ukrainian hacker specialising in the sale of credit card details. According to Russian cyber-security consultancy Group-IB, \"Rescator\" (AKA Helkern and ikaikki) runs his own marketplace at rescator.cc and uploaded over 5 million card details onto the SWIPED carder marketplace.\n\nCredit card details have been stolen from places like Minnesota and the United Kingdom, the website allows searches by zip code so that stolen card numbers can be cashed out more locally to their victim to avoid alerting banks. Unlike the now defunct Tor Carding Forums, the site is free to use, payments requiring direct Bitcoin payments to sellers without escrow features more common on darknet markets. Many of the stolen details from the Target, Home Depot and Sally Beauty data breaches ended up at the site.\n\nIn March 2014 the site was briefly defaced by a rival hacker. \n\n\"The Rescator\" is the nickname of a major character in the well-known \"Angelique\" series of historical novels. The character is depicted as a pirate whose acts are clearly illegal but still morally defensible, who always wears a mask and whose true identity remains unknown over many volumes of the series.\n"}
{"id": "15400145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15400145", "title": "Risanamento", "text": "Risanamento\n\nRisanamento (literally, \"making healthy again\") is a name given to the large scale re-planning of Italian cities following unification. Particular examples are the \"Risanamento\" of Florence and Naples.\n"}
{"id": "991705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991705", "title": "Rock Against Bush", "text": "Rock Against Bush\n\nRock Against Bush was a project mobilizing punk and alternative musicians against the 2004 U.S. Presidential re-election campaign of George W. Bush. At its core was the idea of using music to create a vibe of anti-war and pro-peace sentiment, similar to counterculture music movements of the 1960s and 1970s, such as Woodstock.\n\nThe effort was initiated by Fat Mike (Michael Burkett) of the band NOFX, inspired by the Rock Against Reagan campaign of the early 1980s. It included live concerts, a series of compilation albums, and is associated with the Punkvoter website. Its goal was to encourage people, especially punk fans, to register to vote and to oppose Bush. The album proceeds were used to support a 2004 concert tour and an associated voter registration drive, emphasizing the swing states. The effort did not achieve its goal, as George W. Bush went on to win the election. The albums have been issued by the Fat Wreck Chords label, which focuses on skate and pop punk artists, so most of the songs are by similar themed bands. Both a CD and a DVD were included, the latter containing documentaries critical of Bush, music videos, and comedy.\n\nThe effort inspired Australian punk bands to start Rock Against Howard.\n\n\nRock Against Bush and Punkvoter were subject to criticism on multiple fronts. A similar (but more obscure) project was started by conservative punks called \"Crush Kerry\". In addition, more radical punks (especially anarchists) criticized the emphasis on electoral politics, as well as the tacit endorsement of John Kerry, who they believed was not much better than George W. Bush. The band Propagandhi decided not to participate when Fat Mike requested that they change the lyrics of a song critical of George Soros that they wished to contribute.\n\nT-shirts were also printed, depicting Fat Mike with the text \"Not My Political Advisor\", as a parody of the \"Not My President\" shirts that depicted Bush, issued by Fat Mike. Fat Mike himself stated he found this to be \"pretty funny\". \n"}
{"id": "55088357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55088357", "title": "SS Puerto Rican", "text": "SS Puerto Rican\n\nThe SS \"Puerto Rican\", was an American-flagged tanker disabled by an explosion in 1984. \n\nThe ship was eight miles off the Golden Gate on October 31, 1984, at 3:24 a.m., when she was torn by a very large double explosion just forward of her deck house. A 100-foot section of deck, the whole width of the vessel, was thrown up and then back down forward on the deck in front of it, as flames shot hundreds of feet in the air.\n\nA bar pilot, the third mate, and a crew member were thrown into the sea. The pilot boat \"San Francisco\" rescued the badly injured pilot and mate, but the crewman was lost. As fire raged onboard, the Coast Guard towed the crippled ship further out to sea, to keep her from breaking up and dumping her cargo near San Francisco Bay. On November 1, a storm passed through the area, battering the \"Puerto Rican\" with 35 MPH winds and 16 foot seas. That evening, after 32 hours of effort, navy fireboats finally extinguished the fire. On November 3, 30 miles southwest of the Golden Gate, she broke up, her stern section sinking to a depth of 1500 feet within the boundaries of the Gulf of the Farallons National Marine Sanctuary. Over a million and a quarter gallons of refined petroleum products, about one-third of \"Puerto Rican's\" cargo, went into the water. \n\nIn the days after the explosion, there were intimations in the media of sabotage linked to a labor dispute. The vessel had been picketed in a Bay Area port and some of its crew harassed by maritime union pickets.. The FBI intervened, but it was quickly determined that no point source explosion had occurred. Later it was found that the explosion probably resulted from holes in tank compartment bulkheads that allowed caustic soda to mix with zinc, forming deadly hydrogen gas that then exploded. A Coast Guard board of investigation attributed this to the negligence of the ship's officers on the inbound voyage from Long Beach. But no cause of the explosion could be established with certainty.\n\nThe environmental impact was significant. In addition to the initial spill, the sunken stern section continued to discharge heavy bunker oil – as much as 8,000 barrels – for months and possibly years afterwards. An estimated 4,815 seabirds were killed by oiling as a result of this spill; another 1,368 were recovered.\n"}
{"id": "26656448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26656448", "title": "The Donner Party (2009 film)", "text": "The Donner Party (2009 film)\n\nThe Donner Party is a 2009 period drama film written and directed by Terrence Martin (credited as T.J. Martin), and starring Crispin Glover, Clayne Crawford, Michele Santopietro, Mark Boone Junior, and Christian Kane. It is based on the true story of the Donner Party, an 1840s westward traveling group of settlers headed for California. Becoming snowbound in the Sierra Nevada mountains, with food increasingly scarce, a small group calling themselves \"The Forlorn Hope\" turned to cannibalism. \"The Forlorn\" was the working title for the film.\n\nThe film opens with text explaining who the Donner Party was and how they ended up in the terrible situation of passing the cutoff.\n\n\nAs well as being Martin's directorial debut, \"The Donner Party\" was production company Anacapa Entertainment's first feature film. It premiered at the Austin Film Festival on October 23, 2009, Its DVD release was three months later on January 26. Shooting was swift, with principal photography at the Donner Pass, California taking only 12 days. Originally, the work had a higher budget, with greater use of child stars and a longer shooting schedule. However, the original production company pulled funding for the project, so several changes were made. The title change was a marketing choice by the distributor.\n\nThe soundtrack was done by the Aspiro Choir under Mary Amond O'Brien.\n\nThe film was released on DVD by First Look Pictures on January 26, 2010. It was later re-released by Millennium Entertainment on October 20, 2015 as a part of its 12 Movie Sci-Fi Pack.\n\nDread Central awarded the film a score of three out of five, commending Glover and Boone Junior's performances, writing: \"T.J. Martin's cinematic version of this dreadful episode in American history is carried off rather well although, as always seems to be the case with films based on historical events, a lot of what transpires in the film never happened, which IS annoying to history buffs like myself. At least the film was shot during the winter in the Donner Pass near Truckee, California, which helped with the verisimilitude.\" \n\"Horror News.Net\" gave the film a positive review, writing, \"Overall \"The Donner Party\" was a nice change from the hard core horror films that I usually watch. I have a feeling it will be shown in a lot of high school history classes in the future as there is really nothing offensive that would make it inappropriate for younger viewers. If you are in the mood for something a little different I suggest you give it a try. I also recommend that you have something to eat on hand while watching it as I was starving by the time I was done watching it. Then again, maybe I have issues.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49991970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49991970", "title": "The Worst Kept Secret Tour", "text": "The Worst Kept Secret Tour\n\nThe Worst Kept Secret Tour is the second official tour from American girl-group Fifth Harmony and the third overall. The tour began in Ventura, California on February 2, 2014 and ended on March 24, 2014 in Buffalo, New York. The group performed in this tour around the same time when they were opening acts for Demi Lovato's 'Neon Lights Tour'. The official poster for this tour was chosen by Fifth Harmony among many nominations submitted by fans. The tour was planned as an early tour for fans who were going to see the group in Demi Lovato's 'Neon Light's Tour'.\n\nThis set list is representative of every show in this tour. However, it does change in one show.\n\n"}
{"id": "1121705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1121705", "title": "USS Newport News (SSN-750)", "text": "USS Newport News (SSN-750)\n\nUSS \"Newport News\" (SSN-750), a , was the third ship of the United States Navy to be named for Newport News, Virginia.\n\nThe contract to build her was awarded to Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company in Newport News, Virginia on 19 April 1982 and her keel was laid down on 3 March 1984. She was launched on 15 March 1986 sponsored by Mrs. Rosemary D. Trible, and commissioned on 3 June 1989. Mayor Jessie M. Rattley presented the ship with a commemorative plaque containing the poem \"Newport News,\" written by Newport News native Ronald W. Bell, whose poem \"Admiral Rickover\" also appears upon a plaque aboard the \"Los Angeles\" class submarine .Ref: Naval Submarine Base, Groton, Ct. The poem appears on this page with permission from the author: ref: Sub Squadron 8, NOB, Norfolk\n\n\"Newport News\" returned to Norfolk, Virginia, following a six-month overseas deployment that included operations in the Middle East. In support of Operation Iraqi Freedom she launched 19 UGM-109C Tomahawk Land Attack Missiles in March 2003. She deployed in August 2004, first to take part in joint operations with allied navies in the North Atlantic, then to the U.S. Central Command area of operations \"in support of national security interests and the global war on terrorism.\"\n\nOn 8 January 2007, \"Newport News\" was operating submerged in the Arabian Sea south of the Straits of Hormuz when it hit the Japanese tanker \"Mogamigawa\". She had been operating as part of Carrier Strike Group 8 (CSG-8), organized around the aircraft carrier . The Carrier Strike Group was redeploying to the Indian Ocean to support a maritime cordon during the war in Somalia when the incident happened. \"Newport News\" suffered damage to her bow, but there was no damage to the sail, mast or reactor, and she made for port in Bahrain under her own power.\n\"Newport News\" was escorted from the mouth of the Straits of Hormuz to Bahrain by the Guided Missile Destroyer . This was due to the fact that the submarine was unable to transit submerged and has no surface defense capabilities. During the transit, Iranian aircraft and warships shadowed the ships.\nAn official of the Kawasaki Kisen Company (or K Line), which owns the tanker, announced that\n\"Mogamigawa\"s hull and propellers were damaged.\n\nAccording to a Navy spokesman, the collision occurred as a result of the venturi effect. The tanker drove over the area where the submarine was submerged and this created a sucking effect that forced the submarine upward to the surface.\nThe incident was the third collision between a U.S. nuclear-powered submarine and a Japanese civilian ship.\n\nOn 29 January, after the boat returned to Bahrain for repairs, administrative personnel actions (Admiral's Mast) were taken against several members of her crew, which included relieving the boat's commanding officer, Commander Matthew A. Weingart, of command due to a lack of confidence in his ability to command.\n\nOn 10 April the Iranian Fars News Agency reported that \"Newport News\" has been leaking radioactive and chemical pollution in the Persian Gulf and claimed that following this formal complaint, the ship departed the gulf for a complete overhaul.\nThe US Navy Fifth Fleet denied this claim restating that damage was limited to the bow and that the sail, mast and reactors were not damaged. On 2 October 2007 the U.S. Navy agreed to pay Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd, the company that owns \"Mogamigawa\" an undisclosed amount in compensation for the collision.\n\n"}
{"id": "41685227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41685227", "title": "Wandad Hurmuzd", "text": "Wandad Hurmuzd\n\nVindadhhurmuzd (Persian: هرمز ونداد), also known by the more correct form of Vandad Hormozd (ونداد هرمزد), was the ruler of the Qarinvand dynasty from 765 to 809.\n\nIn 760, during the reign of Vandad Hormozd's unnamed father, the Dabuyids, under Khurshid of Tabaristan, revolted against the Abbasid Caliphate. Khurshid was defeated, however, and fled to Daylam. From there he launched a counterattack against the Abbasids, but was once again defeated. After learning that his family was captured by the Abbasids, Khurshid poisoned himself. This marked the end of the Dabuyid dynasty, but the other local dynasties such as the Qarinvands, Bavandids and Zarmihrids, who were all formerly subject to the Dabuyids, continued to control parts of Tabaristan, as tributary vassals of the Abbasid government.\n\nIn 765, Vandad Hormozd became the ruler of the Qarinvand dynasty. In 772, Khalid ibn Barmak, the Abbasid governor of Tabaristan, left the region. Shortly after Khalid's departure, Vandad Hormozd sent the Bavand ruler Sharwin I a letter which urged him to revolt against the Abbasids. Sharwin I accepted, and along with Vandad Hormozd, and the Zarmihrid ruler, rose in revolt. They then began destroying the cities built by the Muslims in the region, and in 782, Sharwin I along with Vandad Hormozd exterminated all the Muslims in Tabaristan. During the same period, Vandad Hormozd assumed the Dabuyid title of \"Gilgilan\", while Sharwin I assumed the title of \"Padashwargarshah\" (\"king of the mountains\"). The Abbasid caliph al-Mahdi, who had received the news about the Zoroastrian revolt in Tabaristan, sent one of his most distinguished officers, named Salim of Farghana, against the rebels, but Vandad Hormozd, with the aid of his brother Vinda-Umid, managed to defeat and kill Salim. Al-Mahdi then sent Firasha, who was also defeated, captured and executed by Vandad Hormozd.\n\nVandad Hormozd continued to repel successive Arab invasions of Tabaristan until 785, when he and the other native rulers of Tabaristan were finally defeated, and once again agreed to pay tribute to the Abbasid caliphs.\n\nIn 805, the Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid visited Ray, where he met Vandad Hormozd and Sharwin I, who assured their submission to him and promised to pay tax. In order to ensure their loyalty, Harun took Sharwin's grandson Shahriyar I and Vandad Hormozd's son Qarin ibn Vindadhhurmuzd as hostages to Baghdad. The two princes were allowed to return to Tabaristan after Harun al-Rashid's death four years later.\n\nVandad Hormozd died in 809, and was succeeded by his son Qarin ibn Vindadhhurmuzd.\n\n"}
{"id": "1103509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1103509", "title": "Williamite War in Ireland", "text": "Williamite War in Ireland\n\nThe Williamite War in Ireland (1688–1691) (, meaning \"war of the two kings\"), was a conflict between Jacobites (supporters of the Catholic King James II of England and Ireland, VII of Scotland) and Williamites (supporters of the Dutch Protestant Prince William of Orange) over who would be monarch of the Kingdom of England, the Kingdom of Scotland and the Kingdom of Ireland. It is also called the Jacobite War in Ireland or the Williamite–Jacobite War in Ireland.\n\nThe cause of the war was the deposition of James as King of the Three Kingdoms in the \"Glorious Revolution\" of 1688. James was supported by the mostly Catholic \"Jacobites\" in Ireland and hoped to use the country as a base to regain his Three Kingdoms. He was given military support by France to this end. For this reason, the war became part of a wider European conflict known as the Nine Years' War (or War of the Grand Alliance). Some Protestants of the established Church in Ireland also fought on the side of King James.\n\nJames was opposed in Ireland by the mostly Protestant \"Williamites\", who were concentrated in the north of the country. William landed a multi-national force in Ireland, composed of English, Scottish, Dutch, Danish and other troops, to put down Jacobite resistance. James left Ireland after a reverse at the Battle of the Boyne in 1690 and the Irish Jacobites were finally defeated after the Battle of Aughrim in 1691.\n\nWilliam defeated Jacobitism in Ireland and subsequent Jacobite risings were confined to Scotland and England. However, the War was to have a lasting effect on Ireland, confirming British and Protestant rule over the country for over two centuries. The iconic Williamite victories of the Siege of Derry and the Battle of the Boyne are still celebrated by (mostly Ulster Protestant) unionists in Ireland today.\n\nThe war in Ireland began as a direct consequence of the Glorious Revolution in England. James II of England and Ireland, VII of Scotland, who was a Roman Catholic, attempted to introduce freedom of religion for Catholics and bypass the English Parliament to introduce unpopular laws. For many in England, this was an unpleasant reminder of the rule of Charles I, whose conflict with the Parliament led to the outbreak of the English Civil War. The breaking point in James' relationship with the English political class came in June 1688 when his second wife gave birth to a son, which opened the prospect of an enduring Catholic Stuart dynasty. This fear led some political figures to conspire to invite William III, stadtholder of the main provinces of the Dutch Republic and husband of James’ daughter Mary Stuart, to invade England. William had indicated that such an invitation would be a condition for a military intervention, which he desired primarily for military and strategic reasons.\nThe Dutch Republic was at the brink of war with the France of Louis XIV, then the greatest military power in Europe. English Stuart Kings Charles II and James II had fostered a close alliance with France since the English Restoration, and William wanted to detach England's resources of men, money, and arms from France and put them at the disposal of his League of Augsburg.\n\nWilliam invaded England in November 1688. William's invasion fleet was aided by favourable weather (the \"Protestant wind\") that gave him weather gage over the British fleet, allowing him to outmaneuver them and land unopposed. William landed at Brixham on 5 November 1688 with 18,000 troops. James fled to France after putting up only a token resistance. In 1689, Prince William and his wife Princess Mary Stuart became co-regents as King William III and Queen Mary II of England.\n\nHowever, while James II was unpopular in England, he had widespread popular support in Ireland. The Irish were almost all Roman Catholics and had fought en masse for the Stuart dynasty in the Wars of the Three Kingdoms in the 1640s, in the hope of securing religious toleration and political self-government. They had been defeated by 1652 and were punished by the English Commonwealth regime with land confiscations and penal legislation. They were largely disappointed with the failure of King Charles II to completely reverse this situation in the Act of Settlement 1662.\n\nThe majority of Irish people were \"Jacobites\" and supported James II due to his 1687 Declaration of Indulgence or, as it is also known, the Declaration for the Liberty of Conscience, that granted religious freedom to all denominations in England and Scotland and also due to James II's promise to the Irish Parliament of an eventual right to self-determination.\n\nJames had given them some concrete concessions in the 1680s by appointing an Irish Catholic, Richard Talbot, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell as Lord Deputy of Ireland, and by re-admitting Catholics as Army officers and into other public offices. When James fled England in 1688 he looked to Ireland to muster support for a re-conquest of his Three Kingdoms. In 1689 he held what became known as the \"Patriot Parliament\" in Dublin, which reversed the confiscations of the 1650s and confirmed his support from most of the Irish landed gentry.\n\nIronically, while Irish Catholics supported King James en masse, the Papal States had joined the League of Augsburg. Pope Innocent XI had lent William of Orange 150,000 Scudi for war purposes through his family's bank before his death in 1689.\n\nAfter William's landing in England, James' Lord Deputy in Ireland, Richard Talbot, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell took action to ensure that all strong points in Ireland were held by garrisons of the newly recruited Irish Catholic army, loyal to James. The northern province of Ulster, which had the heaviest concentration of English and Scottish settlers, was the only part of Ireland where Talbot encountered significant resistance. An attempted rising by the Protestant inhabitants of Bandon in County Cork was quickly defeated by Jacobite forces.\n\nBy November 1688, only the walled city of Derry had a Protestant garrison. A Jacobite army of around 1,200 men, mostly \"Redshanks\" (slang for kilt-wearing Highlanders), under Alexander MacDonnell, 3rd Earl of Antrim, was slowly organised (they set out on the week William of Orange landed in England). When they arrived on 7 December 1688 the gates were closed against them and the Siege of Derry began. While the Jacobites appeared to have great advantages in terms of numbers in Ireland, in fact, the troops raised by Tyrconnell were mainly hastily conscripted peasant bands, most of them poorly armed and trained. Nevertheless, a Jacobite force under Richard Hamilton routed a Protestant Williamite militia in an encounter at Dromore, County Down (known as the Break of Dromore) on 14 March 1689 and occupied eastern Ulster.\n\nWhen James was deposed and fled to France, Louis XIV (already at war with William of Orange) supported him with troops and money to help him regain his crown, though he stipulated that the French troops he sent to Ireland would have to be made good by the sending of the same number of Irish recruits to France.\n\nOn 12 March 1689 James landed in Kinsale, Ireland, with a force of 2,500 men under the command of de Rosen, He first marched on Dublin, where he was well received and, with a Jacobite army of Catholics, Protestant Royalists and French, then marched north, joining the Siege of Derry on 18 April. James found himself leading a predominantly Irish Catholic movement, and on 7 May he presided over an Irish Parliament composed almost entirely of Catholic gentry. He reluctantly agreed to the Parliament's demand for an Act declaring that the Parliament of England had no right to pass laws for Ireland. He also agreed, again reluctantly, to restore to Irish Catholics the lands confiscated from their families after the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland, by confiscating the lands of those (predominantly Protestants) who opposed him and supported William. This parliament was later named the Patriot Parliament by Irish nationalists.\n\nBritish Williamite warships arrived off Derry to relieve the besieged city on 11 June, but refused to risk shore guns until, ordered by Marshal Frederic Schomberg, they broke through and ended the siege on 28 July 1689.\n\nIn Enniskillen, 53 miles south of Derry, armed Williamite civilians drawn from the local Protestant population organised a formidable irregular military force. Operating with Enniskillen as a base, they carried out raids against the Jacobite forces in Connacht and Ulster. A poorly trained Jacobite army led by Justin MacCarthy, Viscount Mountcashel assembled at Dublin and marched against them. On 28 July 1689, MacCarthy's force was defeated at the Battle of Newtownbutler. Many of the Jacobite troops fled as the first shots were fired, and up to 1500 of them were hacked down or drowned when pursued by the Williamite cavalry. Partly as a result of this defeat and partly because of a major Williamite landing in the east of the province, most Jacobite troops were withdrawn from Ulster and encamped near Dundalk.\n\nOn 13 August 1689 William's army under Marshal Frederick Schomberg, 1st Duke of Schomberg landed at Ballyholme Bay in County Down and, after capturing Carrickfergus, marched unopposed to Dundalk. James's viceroy Tyrconnell, commanding the main Jacobite army, blocked Schomberg's passage southwards but did not give battle. The two armies remained encamped opposite each other in cold, wet weather for several weeks before they withdrew to winter quarters. The Williamites lost several thousand men from disease in this campaign, even though they did not fight a single major engagement with the Jacobites. Moreover, they found themselves harassed throughout the winter of 1689 and in the following two years by Irish Catholic guerrillas known as \"rapparees\". Schomberg's troops continued to die from disease in their winter quarters because of the harsh weather and poor food supplies. The lack of food was partly from bad management, but also because the Jacobites devastated the countryside as they retreated. The local civilian population also suffered terribly from this tactic.\n\nImpatient with Schomberg's slow progress, William decided to take charge. He arrived with a fleet of 300 ships at Belfast Lough on 14 June 1690. He landed at Carrickfergus, having mustered an army of 36,000 soldiers (including English, German, Dutch, Danish, and French Huguenot troops), which then marched south towards Dublin. After some resistance near Newry the Jacobites withdrew to the south bank of the River Boyne, where they took up a defensive position at the village of Oldbridge, near Drogheda. On 1 July, William attacked their position, fording the Boyne at several places, forcing the Jacobites to retreat to avoid being surrounded. (As a consequence of the adoption of the Gregorian calendar in 1753, the battle is now commemorated on 12 July).\n\nThe Battle of the Boyne was not militarily decisive and casualties on both sides were not high—around 1500 Jacobites and 500 Williamites were killed. However, it proved enough to collapse James's confidence in victory in Ireland. He rode ahead of his army to Duncannon, and from there returned to exile in France. Because he deserted his Irish supporters, James became known in Ireland as or \"James the Shit\". The battle was lost but not the war. James's illegitimate son James Fitzjames, 1st Duke of Berwick wrote in his memoirs that he fled to muster fresh French support . The Jacobite army retreated to Dublin, little damaged but demoralised and badly hit by desertion. The next day, they abandoned the city and marched to Limerick. The Williamites marched into Ireland's capital on the same day and occupied the city without a fight. On 27 July, Jacobites in Scotland secured a victory by routing a Williamite army at the Battle of Killiecrankie.\n\nWilliam's victory at the Boyne, together with James' flight, might have been the end of the war in Ireland. However, William published very harsh peace terms in the Declaration of Finglas, excluding the Jacobite officers and the Irish Catholic landed class from the pardon he offered to Jacobite foot-soldiers. As a result, Irish Jacobite leaders felt they had no choice but to fight until they received guarantees that their lives, property, and civil and religious rights would be respected in a peace settlement.\n\nAs a result of Williamite intransigence, the war continued. The Irish Jacobites retreated to Limerick, where they repulsed a Williamite assault, inflicting heavy casualties, in August 1690. The Williamites retreated from the west of Ireland but consolidated their hold on the south of the country in late 1690. Their forces, under the Earl of Marlborough, took the southern ports of Cork and Kinsale\n\nThe Irish Jacobites' position was now defensive, holding a large enclave in western Ireland, including all of the province of Connacht, bounded by the River Shannon. The Jacobites' successful defence of Limerick encouraged them to believe they could win the war with help from France (though many of the French troops sent with James were withdrawn after his flight). William left Ireland in late 1690, entrusting command of the Williamite forces to the Dutch general Godert de Ginkell.\n\nGinkell broke into Connacht via the town of Athlone, after a bloody siege there. He then advanced on the key Jacobite strongholds of Galway and Limerick. The Marquis de St Ruth, the Jacobite's French commander, attempted to block Ginkell's advance at Aughrim, County Galway, but Ginkell's army inflicted a crushing defeat on the Irish at the Battle of Aughrim, where the Jacobites lost up to 8000 men—about half their army—killed, wounded, or taken prisoner.\n\nSt Ruth himself, the Jacobite General, was among the dead. Ginkell took Galway, which surrendered on favourable terms. He went on to besiege Limerick. The Siege of Limerick ended with Irish surrender on 23 September 1691, when Patrick Sarsfield, despairing of any hope of victory, overthrew the French officers in command of the city and opened negotiations with Ginkell.\n\nThe peace Treaty of Limerick signed on 3 October 1691 offered favourable terms to Jacobites willing to stay in Ireland and give an oath of loyalty to William III. Peace was concluded on these terms between Sarsfield and Ginkell, giving toleration to Catholicism and full legal rights to Catholics that swore an oath of loyalty to William III and Mary II.\n\nThe Protestant-dominated Irish Parliament refused to ratify the articles of the Treaty in 1697, and from 1695 on, updated the penal laws, which discriminated harshly against Catholics. Catholics saw this as a severe breach of faith. A popular contemporary Irish saying was, (\"remember Limerick and Saxon treachery\"). The Papacy was an enemy of Louis of France and therefore did not support James in 1691, but the new Pope Pope Innocent XII changed its policy to support for France, and therefore James, from 1693. This factor hardened Protestant attitudes towards Catholics and Jacobitism in Ireland.\n\nPart of the treaty agreed to Sarsfield's demand that the Jacobite army could leave Ireland as a body and go to France. Ships were even provided for this purpose. This event was popularly known in Ireland as the \"Flight of the Wild Geese\". Around 14,000 men with around 10,000 women and children left Ireland with Patrick Sarsfield in 1691. Initially, they formed the army in exile of James II, though operating as part of the French army. After James's death, the remnants of this force merged into the French Irish Brigade, which had been set up in 1689 from 6,000 Irish recruits sent by the Irish Jacobites in return for French military aid.\n\nThe Williamite victory in the war in Ireland had two main long-term results. The first was that it ensured James II would not regain his thrones in England, Ireland, and Scotland by military means. The second was that it ensured closer British and Protestant dominance over Ireland. Until the nineteenth century, Ireland was ruled by what became known as the \"Protestant Ascendancy\", the mostly Protestant ruling class. The majority Irish Catholic community and the Ulster-Scots Presbyterian community were systematically excluded from power, which was based on land ownership.\n\nFor over a century after the war, Irish Catholics maintained a sentimental attachment to the Jacobite cause, portraying James and the Stuarts as the rightful monarchs who would have given a just settlement to Ireland, including self-government, restoration of confiscated lands and tolerance for Catholicism. Thousands of Irish soldiers left the country to serve the Stuart monarchs in the Spanish and French armies. Until 1766 France and the Papacy remained committed to restoring the Stuarts to their British Kingdoms, at least one composite Irish battalion (500-men) drawn from Irish soldiers in the French service fought on the Jacobite side in the Scottish Jacobite uprisings up to the Battle of Culloden in 1746.\n\nProtestants, on the other hand, portrayed the Williamite victory as a triumph for religious and civil liberty. Triumphant murals of King William still controversially adorn gable walls in Ulster, and the defeat of the Catholics in the Williamite war are still commemorated by Protestant Unionists, by the Orange Order on the Twelfth of July.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44980468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44980468", "title": "World Strategic Forum", "text": "World Strategic Forum\n\nThe World Strategic Forum is an annual economic event organized by the International Economic Forum of the Americas since 2011.\n\nThe World Strategic Forum is a not-for-profit organization whose mission is to address the major governance challenges and to foster dialogues on national and global issues by bringing together heads of state, the private sector, international organizations and civil society. It also attempts to foster exchanges of information, to promote free discussion on major current economic issues and facilitate meetings between world leaders.\n\nThe Forum brings together more than 1,400 people from across the globe, every year.\n\nThe first Forum was presented in 2011 and was held in Palm Beach, Florida, until 2014. The subsequent editions, as of 2015, are held in Miami, Florida.\n\nSee source\n\n\nCurrent members of the Advisory Board of the World Strategic Forum are:\n\n"}
