{"id": "57468925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57468925", "title": "47Soul", "text": "47Soul\n\n47Soul is a Jordanian Palestinian electronic music group who are one of the main forces behind the Shamstep electronic dance music movement in the Middle East. The band's first album, Shamstep, was released in 2015.\n\nThe group formed in Jordan in 2013. Their debut album \"Shamstep\" was released in 2015. In 2017, 47Soul released their second album \"Balfron Promise,\" which takes its name from the east London tower block Balfron Tower, where the record was created. It also refers to the Balfour Declaration of 1917 through which the British government committed itself to the creation of a Jewish homeland in Palestine. The group had been residents of Balfron Tower for two years while creating their album. The album received 4 out of 5 stars in a January 2018 review in The Guardian.\n\nThe band are playing at festivals in 2018 like Walthamstow Garden Party, Fusion festival and Festival Med.\n\n\n47Soul's style, Shamstep, is based on mijwiz (a levantine folk musical style) and electronic dance. \"Shamstep\" is a portmanteau: 'Sham' refers to the levant region, which is locally referred to as \"Bilad al-Sham\", and 'step' refers to the musical style dubstep. The band's music is also associated with the traditional dance called Dabke.\n"}
{"id": "5259993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259993", "title": "Accent reduction", "text": "Accent reduction\n\nAccent reduction, also known as accent modification or accent neutralization, is a systematic approach for learning or adopting a new speech accent. It is the process of learning the sound system (or phonology) and melodic intonation of a language so the non-native speaker can communicate with clarity to be understood by the general public of this second language.  \n\nAccent reduction training is not the same as ESL (English as a Second Language) classes. Accent reduction classes go beyond learning vocabulary and grammar and focus upon clarity of speech and fine tuning a specific accent or dialect. Foreign accent reduction training is typically appropriate for adult learners who have at least a moderate level of conversational proficiency in the second language. Non-native speakers from any background or profession can benefit from accent reduction training. That is not to say that every non-native speaker needs to modify their accent, however. The goal of accent reduction training is to improve speaking clarity so the non-native speaker is understood in the workplace as well as within their community; not necessarily to totally eliminate the accent. Business professionals, physicians, professors, researchers, telemarketers, etc. oftentimes request accent reduction training be provided by their employers so they can communicate more effectively with their colleagues, clients, and customers. \n\nForeign born students and professionals can benefit from accent modification training to improve their English intelligibility to be more competitive when interviewing for jobs.  Under U.S. labor law, employers can make job decisions based on accent if it interferes with work. The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission does receive a small number of complaints every year from individuals who believe they are victims of accent-related job discrimination.\n\nTwo distinct types of accent reduction training are available: self-study and instructor-led.  There are many types of self-study books, apps, cds, and software systems on the market.  Some of these products offer materials that are unique to individuals from specific language backgrounds.  The self-study learning methods can be helpful especially if audios are included so the user can hear the correct pronunciations.  Instructor-led training, although significantly more expensive than the self-study option, allows students to receive personalized instruction, obtain immediate feedback from the trainer, and typically make more timely progress.  Instructor-led training is available in a variety of ways:  1:1 with an instructor, small group training, seminars, or workshops.  Delivery can occur in person, web-based using webcams, or via telephone.\n\nAccent modification is offered by various certified speech-language trainers, linguists, and specialists in ESL. In the United States, they are promoted by various organizations including the Accent Freedom, the American Speech–Language–Hearing Association (ASHA), the Accent Reduction Training Association (ARTA), Corporate Speech Pathology Network (CORSPAN),  Voice, Speech Trainers Association (VASTA).\n\nInstructor-led courses typically start with a speech assessment to determine a student’s unique needs.  Speech production is a very complicated process involving coordinating movements of the lips, tongue, jaw, vocal cords, and respiratory system.  Speakers from different language backgrounds have different speech patterns when speaking English as they are attempting to implement their own language’s pronunciation rules while speaking English.  Even people from the same language background can have differing speech patterns based upon the age at which they learned English, the characteristics of their teacher’s speech, and influences of other languages they may speak.\n\nAreas of focus may include teaching students clear articulation of vowels and consonants as well as the intonation patterns that are unique to each language.  The learning sequence is typically broken down into progressive learning segments until they cumulate into using the newly learned skills in conversation. Additional areas might include linking, rate, or voice projection.  Instructor-led accent training will also frequently include conversational practice to help the student transfer these newly learned skills into everyday conversations.  \n\nTraining timelines can vary from a few days to several months depending upon the chosen model of instruction.  Outside practice time is essential for the participant to see significant changes in their speech.\n\n Although accents can be minimized through training, actually eliminating an accent is extremely difficult to master and could take years to accomplish.  It is unrealistic to expect total accent elimination in a short period of time.  \n\nAccent improvement focuses on teaching students how to pronounce difficult sounds such as , , , , and ; intonation, stress, and rhythm. Spanish and Portuguese speakers might add an before the vowel , as in \"his\" for \"is\". Therefore, vowel sounds are also covered in accent reduction training. Practicing of the vowel most commonly spelled \"i\" is done by reciting a few of the following differences: his versus is, hit versus it, hill versus ill. By not letting the back of their tongue touch the palate, native speakers of Asian languages (Chinese, etc.) can avoid adding a before the for example in speaking \"yin\" instead of \"in\".\nSpecialists also use activities, games, and printable workbooks to help students practice what they learn.\nAlthough the accents can be reduced through training, some linguists warn against giving students a false hope that they will lose their accents. According to Dennis Baron, a linguistics professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, eliminating an accent is difficult. Calming an accent, he said, takes years of interaction with native English speakers. Even so, under U.S. labor law, employers can make job decisions based on accent if it interferes with work. The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission does receive a small number of complaints every year from individuals who believe they are victims of accent-related job discrimination.\n\nThe actors Portia de Rossi, Tom Holland, Anthony La Paglia, Katherine Langford, and Charlize Theron are examples of notable people who received such training to lose their native accents and develop American accents, even in everyday speech.\n\nWith regard to English accent training, the two most distinct choices of accent reduction are the British or American pathways. However the Australian method of received pronunciation is increasingly preferred by Asian nations, given the two regions' geographic proximity; this is an important consideration given the rise of Asia's economic strength and choice in education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40726284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40726284", "title": "Age-graded variation", "text": "Age-graded variation\n\nIn linguistics, age-graded variation is differences in speech habits within a community that are associated with age. Age-grading occurs when individuals change their linguistic behavior throughout their lifetimes, but the community as a whole does not change.\n\nThe term “age-grading” was first introduced by anthropologist/linguist Charles F. Hockett, but has been defined as it is used today by sociolinguist William Labov, who identified it as an individual linguistic change against a backdrop of community stability. Age-grading is not limited to changes at any one particular stage in life, but can be studied in the way that babies, adolescents, young adults speak, and the elderly speak. \n\nAge-grading involves the use of stable sociolinguistic variables, or features that are not currently undergoing any linguistic change. Linguistic features that are age-graded typically are stigmatized or have a high degree of social awareness and can be consciously controlled. For this reason, age-graded variables tend to be semantic (e.g., an entire word) as opposed to phonetic. Age-graded changes recur at a particular age in successive generations and are regular and predictable changes. These changes are thought to mark developmental/maturational stages in the individual’s life.\n\nThe expected pattern is a u- or v-shaped curve (see figure to the right). Nonprestigious age-graded linguistic features tend to peak during adolescence “when peer group pressure not to conform to society’s norms is greatest” (Holmes 1992:184). The use of standard or prestige forms peaks between the ages of 30 and 55. When people reach middle age, they tend to follow societal norms more because that is when the societal pressure to conform is greatest. At this stage of life, people become more conservative and use the fewest vernacular forms. Nonprestigious forms may resurface in old age when people are out of the workforce and social pressures are reduced.\n\nAge-graded variation stands in contrast to the apparent-time hypothesis, which assumes that an individual’s vernacular does not change once they are past adolescence. According to the apparent-time hypothesis, age-stratified variation is often indicative of a linguistic change in progress. For example, if in a survey of a population, patterned differences between the speech of individuals 75 years old, 50 years old, and 25 years old may indicate changes that have occurred over the past 50 years. This presents a problem when studying age-graded variation because age-grading relies on individuals changing their speech patterns throughout their lives. The applicability of age-graded variation should be confirmed by real-time evidence. This can come from a longitudinal study, which tracks the same people.\n\nWhen children first learn their language, they learn language in the way of their mother and/or primary caretakers. Vernacular reorganization occurs when children adopt a norm that is different from the one they have acquired. This happens in the preadolescent and adolescent years and is necessary for linguistic change to advance.\n\nIt is not uncommon for adolescents to have certain linguistic variation in their speech. Adolescence is a transitional period when children become adults and move away from their family identity to express themselves as individuals. During this period, age-segregated networks form, giving rise to age-graded variation. Adolescents tend to lead with an increased use of vernacular and linguistic variables to differentiate themselves from the adult population.\n\nWhen studies began to include younger age groups, researchers (e.g. Ash 1982; Cedergren 1973, 1988) discovered that the frequency of incoming linguistic changes is highest among 15- to 17-year-olds, but lower among 11- to 14-year-olds and people in their twenties. This is called the adolescent peak.\n\nAdults have been shown to be more conservative in their use of linguistic variables. This has been attributed to the desired use of standard language which is used in the workplace. Adolescents tend to use more slang and swear words, but these features recede as they become adults. This phenomenon is known as sociolectal retrenchment.\n\nAlthough middle-aged adults have conservative speech as mentioned above, older adults tend to have less formal speech. Older women who have passed the years of childbearing shed some of the conservatism in their speech. Similarly, older men who are past the age of retirement and no longer in the workforce also have less formal speech because of reduced social pressure to conform.\n\nJ.K. Chambers cites an example from southern Ontario, Canada. The last letter of the English alphabet is called \"zed\" everywhere in the English-speaking world except for the United States, where it is known as \"zee\". Though the use of \"zee\" is stigmatized in southern Ontario, children learn it this way because of the alphabet song that rhymes \"zee\" with \"vee\". Surveys in southern Ontario show a higher proportion of young people who produce \"zee\" compared to older people. In a Toronto survey in 1979, two-thirds of the twelve-year-olds completed their recitation of the alphabet with \"zee\" but only 8 percent of adults did so. In 1991, when those twelve-year-olds were twenty-five, another survey showed that 39 percent of twenty- to twenty-five-year-olds said \"zee\". This pattern of declining use of \"zee\" repeats itself in succeeding generations in southern Ontario.\n\nIn Scotland and Northern England, children’s use of the glottal stop [ʔ], in place of /t/ is described as “the most openly stigmatised feature.” The glottal stop can occur in any non-initial post-tonic position and excludes words like time and tide, since the /t/ is word-initial, and in words like \"pretend\" and \"patella\", where it is pre-tonic. Examples where a glottal stop can replace a /t/ include words like \"better\", \"city\", \"dirty\", \"football\", \"hitting\", and \"water\". Children in Scotland and Northern England soon learn that the use of the glottal stop is considered inferior to the use of /t/ and are taught to correct themselves from an early age. Variation between the glottal stop and /t/ is mostly seen within the middle class due to pressure from adults. This case study provides an illustration of what Labov has identified as a “principle of transmission” (Labov 2001:437). He explains that “at some stage of socialization...children learn that variants favored in informal speech are associated with lower social status in the wider community.” Because of this, there is pressure to stop the use of the glottal stop by adolescence. However, since they are class-insensitive, children cannot be stopped from learning the glottal stop variant during childhood.\n\nThe use of instant messaging variants \"lol\", \"haha\", and \"hehe\" provides a contemporary example of age-grading among adolescents. As shown in the figure to the right, the use of \"lol\" declines systematically according to age, with the youngest people using it the most frequently. Use of the more conservative form \"haha\" increases according to age. Older adolescents become aware that \"lol\" is used by a younger group and consciously reduce their use of the form.\n\n"}
{"id": "33898982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33898982", "title": "American librarianship and human rights", "text": "American librarianship and human rights\n\nLibrarianship and human rights in the U.S. are linked by the philosophy and practice of library and information professionals supporting the rights enumerated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), particularly the established rights to information, knowledge and free expression.\n\nThe American Library Association (ALA), the national voice of the profession in the United States, has developed statements, policies and initiatives supporting human rights by affirming intellectual freedom, privacy and confidentiality, and the rights of all people to access library services and resources on an equitable basis. The daily work of librarians contributes to the personal growth, enrichment, and capabilities of individuals, which is considered to be an integral approach to advancing human rights.\n\nLibrarians, both individually and collectively, have a long history of engagement with human rights issues as they pertain to libraries and the communities they serve: against censorship and discrimination; and in support of the rights of immigrants, cultural minorities, poor people, the homeless and unemployed, people with disabilities, children and young adults, the LGBT community, older adults, those who are illiterate, and the imprisoned. Librarians also protect human rights by developing diverse collections, programs and services, and preserving cultural and historical records.\n\nThe UDHR is viewed as a set of ideals to guide librarianship. Librarianship is most closely associated with Article 19, which concerns the human right to freedom of opinion and expression, and the right to access and share information and ideas. But alignment goes beyond Article 19.\n\nLibrarians also protect other human rights detailed in the UDHR, including freedom of thought, conscience and religion (Article 18), peaceful assembly and association (Article 20), confidentiality (Articles 1, 2, 3 and 6), privacy (Articles 3 and 12), education (Article 26), and participation in the cultural life of the community (Article 27).\n\nLibrarians protect and promote human rights on a societal level, serving as a cornerstone of democracy by helping people find quality information and develop the information literacy skills needed to be informed citizens and full participants in society. They also protect democracy by promoting transparency in government, informing people about their rights and benefits, providing programs on civic issues, and offering free meeting spaces for community organizations. In times of disaster, they serve as critical community hubs and communication centers.\n\nLibrarians protect and promote human rights on an individual level—–respecting and protecting the right to free and equitable access to information for all and providing resources for personal enrichment and growth. Librarianship is aligned with the human capabilities approach to development, which contributes to human rights by valuing and supporting the development of each person.\n\nHuman rights is a professional ethic that informs the practice of librarianship. The ALA, the profession's voice in the U.S., defines the core values of librarianship as information access, confidentiality/privacy, democracy, diversity, education and lifelong learning, intellectual freedom, preservation, the public good, professionalism, service and social responsibility.\n\nInformation access is considered a \"linchpin right\" on which other human rights depend, because information is essential for supporting an informed citizenry that knows what their rights are and what their government is doing, or not doing, to respect those rights. Free and equal access to information also supports lifelong learning for all, whether for personal enrichment, building individual capabilities or for fulfillment of a goal, such as starting a business, learning new software, discovering cultural history or finding healthcare.\n\nEquity of access, which is a key action area of the ALA, is central to the philosophy of librarianship. All people, \"regardless of age, education, ethnicity, language, income, physical limitations or geographic barriers,\" should have access to the information they need. Among the many ways in which librarians work to serve all populations are by working to eliminate barriers to service, providing materials in different languages, hiring bilingual and bicultural staff, and offering literacy instruction and ESOL courses. The ALA has policies addressing free access by all, including minors, LGBT, people with disabilities, the imprisoned, people living in poverty, cultural minorities, homeless people, immigrants, and people of all ages. ALA policy also addresses diversity in terms of equity of access to information resources, services and technologies, especially for those who face language, cultural and other barriers.\n\nThe ALA's adoption of \"social responsibility and the public good\" as a core organizational value suggests that librarians have a responsibility to resist threats to intellectual freedom and advocate for democratic principles and human rights; and to address through social action the root causes of such problems as discrimination, poverty and homelessness, which are barriers to full and equal participation.\n\nThe ALA Library Bill of Rights, which is considered the \"central document\" of librarianship, expresses the profession's policy on intellectual freedom. It rejects censorship and \"affirms the ethical imperative to provide unrestricted access to information and to guard against impediments to open inquiry.\" The Library Bill of Rights, together with the Freedom to Read Statement, was instrumental in librarians' defense of intellectual freedom in the McCarthy era and is still cited regularly in response to challenges of library materials.\n\nThe Library Bill of Rights is an evolving document that has become more inclusive, expansive and firmer in its commitment to intellectual freedom since it was first adopted by ALA leadership in 1939. In 1961, for example, it was amended in support of civil rights, supporting the right to use a library regardless of \"race, religion, national origins or political views.\" Its applicability to specific library issues has been codified by ALA leadership in a series of interpretations, including the reaffirmation of the right to privacy and confidentiality of library users (2002), linked to Article 12 of the UDHR (right to privacy).\n\nThe ALA made a strong, explicit statement in support of human rights in 1991 with \"The Universal Right to Free Expression: An Interpretation of the Library Bill of Rights.\" This interpretation refers to specific human rights enumerated in the UDHR as \"inalienable rights of every person, regardless of origin, age, background, or views\": freedom of thought, conscience and religion (Article 18); freedom of opinion and expression (Article 19); and freedom to peaceful assembly and association (Article 20). The ALA also declared that it \"is unswerving in its commitment to human rights and intellectual freedom,\" noting that \"the two are inseparably linked and inextricably entwined.\" It also \"rejects censorship in any form\" and advocates for the free flow of information internationally.\n\nThe ALA's \"Code of Ethics,\" which establishes the obligations and professional responsibilities of librarians, refers to \"a profession explicitly committed to intellectual freedom and the freedom of access to information.\" Included in its ethical guidelines for librarians are protection of library users' privacy and confidentiality, and resistance to \"all efforts to censor library resources.\"\n\n\"Libraries: An American Value,\" adopted in 1999 and endorsed widely by ALA state chapters and divisions, communicated to the public the profession's commitment to assure free access to \"books, ideas, resources and information.\" It includes pledges to defend the rights of people of all ages to use the library; to reflect diversity in resources and services; to protect individual privacy and confidentiality; and to contribute toward lifelong learning for all.\n\nThe ALA's \"Declaration for the Right to Libraries\" (2013-2014) refers to the UDHR in its preamble, along with the U.S. Declaration of Independence, as an inspiration for asserting that \"libraries are essential to a democratic society\" and that all people have a \"right to quality libraries.\" It is based on the many roles of libraries: connecting people with the information and ideas they need, supporting literacy and lifelong learning; serving all people equitably, building communities; protecting the \"right to know\" and the \"right to read;\" creating a literate and informed society; advancing knowledge and research; and preserving cultural heritage.\n\nThe profession has also long expressed a global perspective on human rights. In 1978, an ALA International Relations Policy Statement pronounced support for intellectual freedom and human rights around the world, saying that \"threats to the freedom of expression of any persons become threats to the freedom of all.\" In 1991, the ALA endorsed UDHR Article 19 as part of its international relations policy, pledging to work with other members of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) to support human rights and freedom of expression. An ALA resolution in 1997 on \"IFLA, Human Rights and Freedom of Expression\" explicitly linked the profession's defense of intellectual freedom and human rights. The ALA has also adopted a series of resolutions on international human rights and free expression over the years in response to specific infringements on human rights and the free flow of information in some countries.\n\nIn response to concerns about patron privacy after passage of the USA Patriot Act, the ALA passed a resolution in 2002 reaffirming the profession's commitment to intellectual freedom and confidentiality and its opposition to government intimidation, citing the \"tolerance of dissent [as] the hallmark of a free and democratic society.\"\n\nThe daily tasks of librarians are characterized as human rights work: helping people of all ages and all abilities find information and resources for enrichment, personal growth, lifelong learning, literacy, career, health, civic participation and much more.\n\nLibrarians, especially those who specialize in archival work, preserve and organize historical records, digitize them and make them accessible to all, including records of human rights abuses. Examples include the ALA's Human Rights Video Project, which provided documentary films on human rights topics free to hundreds of libraries for public screenings and discussions; and the University of Minnesota's Human Rights Library, which houses over 60,000 core human rights documents from over 150 countries.\n\nLibrarians provide resources and programs to advance childhood and adult literacy skills, which support civic participation and the ability to access and use information. Libraries provide a gateway to the internet for those who do not have access otherwise; and librarians offer digital and information literacy training.\n\nLibrary culture often mirrors the attitudes and perspectives of their communities and time periods. Nonetheless, throughout the history of American librarianship, especially beginning in the mid-20th century, individuals and organizations have advocated for human rights. The issues and the way they are approached vary between time periods, people, and organizations but the evidence that librarians have been promoting human rights in the U.S. is irrefutable.\n\n\"Librarians lead the battle for freedom of information ... Librarians carry information and knowledge beyond barriers imposed by the page or machine into the minds of people. Librarians not only use all sources of information, in all formats, but lead the effort to make them all accessible and understandable to the rest of society\" John N. Berry III (1991)\n\nPaul Sturges lists the following as necessary for a society that has achieved Freedom of Information:\n\n\nWhile modern American librarianship has shown wide support for the aforementioned conditions, it has had to negotiate a nuanced space when supporting the Freedom of Information. Therefore, librarians must balance combating censorship with promoting intellectual freedom, open access, privacy rights, and respecting the rights of authors. Hence, while librarians can be symbolically important voices in favor of the Freedom of Information, professional and communal considerations often limit their ability to fully endorse what full freedom of information would entail. State and national library organizations strive to remain aware of new or proposed FOI laws so that they can play a part in voicing concerns and improving bills, laws, and resolutions.\n\nThe Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) generally provides that any person has the right to request access to federal agency records or information except to the extent the records are protected from disclosure by any of nine exemptions contained in the law or by one of three special law enforcement record exclusions.\n\nThe American Library Association defines intellectual freedom as the right of every individual, without restriction, to seek and receive information. It is based upon the idea that a stable and healthy democratic society progresses when ideas can be crafted and shared without social, political, or governmental restrictions. This American librarianship value is in line with First Amendment rights, established by the United States Constitution. Librarians strive to establish a balance along the spectrum of intellectual freedom - where on one side ideas flow unchecked, even harmful ones, and strict censorship exists on the other side. Librarianship allows for any person, regardless of their age, background, or beliefs to access information by any author despite whatever beliefs or viewpoints that author may hold. The individual has the freedom to decide how they express their own views and ideas as well as how they receive the views and ideas of others.\n\nThe first library in the United States to issue a formal intellectual freedom policy was the Chicago Public Library in 1936.\n\nThe American Library Association launched a Committee on Intellectual Freedom in 1940. Currently, the ALA also maintains an Office of Intellectual Freedom which was established in 1967, one year after the \"Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)\" was made law by the U.S. federal government.\n\nIn 1977, the ALA completed the controversial film \"The Speaker\". The film details the fictionalized experience of a speaker who is denied the right to speak out on his offensive views concerning race. The main theme of the film was issues of intellectual freedom. ALA members debated whether or not the film should be released. but in the end the film was released.\n\nIn 1991 the ALA added Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to their policy manual.\n\nSeveral state library organizations and associations possess Intellectual Freedom Committees, which routinely handle issues of intellectual freedom and the freedom of information.\n\nFreedom from Economic Disadvantage\n\nLibraries are also an important tool in information access to those who due to their economic situation would not normally have it. Important organizations such as Beyond Access play an important part in helping libraries around the world and specifically in poorer areas have the resources they need to provide the community with the information they need. Vulnerable populations such as the homeless, or mentally ill need libraries to speak on their behalf. Freedom of information does not apply only to the middle class or wealthy but to everyone and is an issue that libraries and governments have to contend with and not ignore.\n\nThe Critical Library Movement describes the shift librarianship has taken towards an interest in social change. The critical library movement incorporates progressive librarianship, activist librarianship, socially responsible librarianship, radical librarianship, independent librarianship, alternative librarianship, and anarchist librarianship. The movement can be traced to the 1930s push, among library activists, to get the ALA to play a larger role in responding to issues which included intellectual freedom, segregation, library unions, and peace. The movement has continued into the modern era and encompasses several forms of librarianship. Progressive librarianship, or socially responsible librarianship, is the most widely used term used to describe librarians who uphold the values which inform the Critical Library Movement.\n\nProgressive librarianship entails active advocacy and maintains the view that librarianship should not strictly adhere to ideas of being neutral and apolitical. They believe that the libraries role in a free and democratic society necessitates that libraries defend civil and independent democracy for all.\n\nNot every librarian who believes in human rights is necessarily a progressive librarian or a part of the Critical Library Movement. Some librarians have vocally denounced library organizations and staff advocating for issues of social justice or issues that are not obviously and explicitly related to library and information services. Some librarians, such as David Berninghausen, argued that the Library Bill of Rights does not include or support taking positions on or getting involved in issues of war, pollution, promoting human brotherhood, upholding the separation of church and state, the voting age, the viability of higher education, or LGBT rights. They do not say that such issues are unimportant or must be ignored, but that getting involved with them in a professional capacity could destroy organizations and the profession. They believe that it is unethical for librarians to publicly take positions on matters not directly connected to librarianship. In the early 1970s this became known as \"The Berninghausen Debate\".\n\nHowever, with the advent of many protests, such as the Occupy Wall Street Movement, many librarians have become politically active in protesting corporate globalization. The Progressive Librarians' International Coalition is an example of a network of librarians who have made human rights an integral part of their goals.\n\nThe Progressive Librarians' International Coalition\n\nThe Progressive Librarians' International Coalition is a network of progressive librarians formed as \"a basis of principles/goals shared worldwide by critical librarians.\" Their goals are as follows:\n\nAlthough there was a \"Women's Meeting\" at the 1882 14th American Libraries Conference, where issues concerning the salaries of women librarians and what female patrons do in reading rooms were discussed, librarians did not become formally active in feminist issues until over 80 years later.\n\nIn 1969 the first women's rights task force was founded, the National Women's Liberation Front for Librarians (NWFFL or New-Waffle). It was also in 1969 that children's librarians, after being unable to find children's books that included working mothers, worked to remedy the situation and succeeded in their efforts. This showed that librarians can work with publishers to diversify female representation in literature. There are many examples of women librarian's who have and continue to pioneer new ways to make the library a more inclusive place for all. That list includes Clara Estelle Breed, Emily Wheelock Reed, Maria Moliner, and Vivian G. Harsh, just to name a few. Women have played a large part in the history of the library and the library's role in human rights.\n\nLibrarians can do more to help end gender discrimination and even violence. An integral tool in the fight against gender discrimination and violence against women is empowerment. In order to promote such empowerment, the abilities of individuals and women as a whole must be strengthened in lieu of positive action. Libraries can play a pivotal role in making the public aware of inaccuracies in gender stereotypes and the harmful effects of gender biases. They can also craft online paths or pathfinders in order to help women who have been affected by domestic violence so that they can be connected to the resources and information they need.\n\nOn September 14, 2016, Carla Hayden was sworn in as the 14th Librarian of Congress, making her the first woman Librarian of Congress and the first African American. She was nominated to this position by President Barack Obama. She was also the first African American to receive the Library Journal's award for Librarian of the Year for her work in the Pratt Library.\n\nThe Earliest Libraries\n\nLibraries in the Western world began as archives in ancient Mesopotamia and ancient Egypt. These archives were recorded depositories kept by court scribes and religious functionaries. Two of the first libraries we know of which were recognizable as organized collections of written knowledge were at Alexandria in Ptolemaic Egypt and Pergamum in Hellenic Turkey. Ancient librarians would have had high status in their societies because they were often scholars or priests and they would have been among the only people able to read.\n\nThe subject of women receiving equal pay for doing the same job as their male counterparts came up in librarianship long before the Equal Rights Amendment was proposed. In 1919, an American Library Association resolution sponsored by the New York Library Employees Union and promoting equal pay and opportunities for women in librarianship was defeated by a vote of 121 to 1. In 1970, Betty Wilson brought forth a resolution that would have the ALA refrain from using facilities that discriminate against women. That resolution was also defeated by the membership. However, in 1977 the American Library Association took a stand for the Equal Rights Amendment. The organization stated that they would no longer hold conferences in states that did not ratify the amendment, with the boycott measure set to take place in 1981. An ERA Task Force was formed in 1979 towards this goal and a sum of $25,000 was allocated towards task force operations in unratified states. At the time, a number of state library associations passed pro-ERA resolutions and formed committees on women in libraries.\n\nNegative or inaccurate depictions of African Americans have long been reinforced through literature and popular culture. To counteract this inaccurate portrayal, librarians of various ethnic and cultural backgrounds, have worked with authors and publishers to ensure that racist stereotypes are kept out of books. Such efforts have been supported by Article 22 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nApproximately 85 years ago African American children were routinely exposed to the negative images of African American people and their culture. Around the 1920s African American parents, librarians, and educators realized these depictions were detrimental to both African American and Caucasian children, and therefore, needed to be removed from library shelves. There was a need for writers to create educational books for children that could be more useful and much more truthful. In response, the Associated Publishers, an African American publishing company founded in 1927 and backed by African American authors, educators, and historical scholars such as Carter G. Woodson and Charles Wesley, began publishing informative books that taught the history and culture of African Americans.\n\nAdvocacy\nIn 1871, Daniel P. Murray began working in the Library of Congress and much of his career was concerned with positive representation of Blacks in the U.S. In 1899, Murray organized an exhibit on \"Negro Authors\" for the 1900 Paris Exhibition, which culminated in the work known as the \"Preliminary List of Books and Pamphlets by Negro Authors\". Murray's goal was to collect every text authored by every Black author in existence. His collection would eventually become the Library of Congress's \"Colored Author Collection\". Charlemae Rollins, who began working for the Chicago Public Library system in 1932, wrote several collection development guides which suggest titles that feature fair depictions of African Americans. Rollins also advocated for considering African American children in the collection development process; she also urged the inclusion of materials by Black authors. Through their outreach and their writing, Murray and Rollins present examples of African American librarians who advocated for fair and accurate representations of Black Americans in literature.\n\nLibrarians who were not African American also advocated for fairer representations in literature and public perceptions. Ernestine Rose (1880-1961) was one of the most progressive librarian voices of her time, believing that positive representations of African Americans in books could not only empower African Americans but also dispel harmful stereotypes among Caucasian patrons as well. She even contacted Daniel P. Murray after he'd retired with the express wish to make the \"one of the best Negro libraries in America\" after recognizing the dearth of books on, about, and African Americans. Rose was also concerned with a diverse representation within librarianship. She deliberately diversified her workforce by hiring Nella Larson and Pura Belpré. Furthermore, Rose chaired the first meeting of the American Library Association's Work with Negroes Round Table in 1922.\n\nIn 1896, The U.S. Supreme Court decision Plessy v. Ferguson establishes the \"separate but equal\" law that legalizes segregated libraries. This would began the start of a tough battle in African American History. The Work With Negroes Round Table was approved as a temporary section of the American Library Association (ALA) during the 1921 Conference in Swampscott, MA in which there were no African American members. After the first meeting of the 1922 American Library Association's Work with Negro Round table convened, the temporary chairperson,Ernestine Rose who was a white librarian at the Harlem Branch Library in New York, ran the initial round table meeting. She worked with her integrated staff to conduct a survey on service to African Americans in public libraries. Out of the 122 survey questionnaires sent out they received ninety-eight responses. The responses reflected the inequity in how African Americans were hired and served by libraries across the U.S. The work of the round table ended in 1923, mainly because no one could agree on how to pursue a solution to the issue.\n\nIssues involving segregated populations were especially prevalent in Rose's survey. However, it wasn't all in the communities themselves. Librarianship also struggled with issues of integrationist versus segregationist practices. In 1936, the American Library Association sent a letter that outlined the conditions African American libraries would need to agree to in order to attend: they would not be allowed to view the exhibits, register in hotels where white delegates were roomed, could not attend meetings where food would be served, and would have to sit in a segregated portion of halls for any sessions they might attend. They eventually decided not to hold conventions in places where all members could not fully attend, although the first integrated conference would not occur until 1956.\n\nDespite the stance of the ALA, several librarians spoke out against segregation on an individual level. Librarians such as Ruth Brown, Juliette Hampton Morgan, and Emily Wheelock Reed either lost their jobs or were forced out of them for their pro-integrationist stances.\n\nIn 1960, the \"Library Journal\" and its editor, Eric Moon, began publishing a series of controversial editorials attacking segregationist practices and the ALA's perceived silence on the matter. Moon characterized segregation and the issues of unequal library service as \"The Silent Subject.\" White southern librarians, like Rick Estes, gave credibility to the \"Library Journal's\" campaign by describing the detrimental effect of segregation on millions of African Americans. In 1961, the ALA added amendment V, supporting equal library access for all, to the Library Bill of Rights.\n\nThe Civil Rights Movement would continue throughout the 1960s with librarians aiding the effort. In 1964, as a part of the Freedom Summer initiative, twenty-five temporary Freedom Libraries opened in Mississippi. Freedom libraries could be found within community centers established for the Freedom Summer movement and were run by volunteers. The libraries, run by volunteers, aimed to support efforts in literacy, voting rights, and to allow access to materials in non-integrated areas.\n\nLibraries have traditionally been committed to providing information access to all patrons regardless of their status in society, but the issue of how to best serve the poor and homeless population has been a challenging issue. Homeless individuals continue to face certain barriers, especially when it comes to using library services that require library membership. For example, public libraries may require users to present a government photo ID with a residential address or other proof of residency within their locality when registering for a library card. Socially driven library policies regarding appearance and hygiene can also affect homeless library users and limit their access to library resources. Some libraries have enacted policies that address \"'offensive body odor,' bathroom usage, or the presence of bulky bags and bedrolls in the library\" in response to complaints from other patrons.\n\nMany libraries, however, believe that \"A central feature of public librarianship in the United States is that librarians have worked to develop a climate of openness by defining library policies to create an institution where all are welcome.\" Libraries are a part of the local community, and many have found ways to serve their communities. Many homeless and mentally ill individuals \"come to the library for all sorts of reasons: to seek warmth and shelter, to use the restroom, to access the Internet, to meet friends and, yes, even to read books and newspapers. Many homeless individuals may also visit the library to apply for government assistance such as food, housing and other services available to them. One librarian estimates that about half of the library's regular patrons are either mentally ill or homeless.\" In light of these beliefs, in recent years, public libraries around the United States have begun offering services and implementing programs that are directly aimed at helping homeless patrons. Public libraries in Denver, San Francisco, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Washington, D.C. have hired social workers who assist homeless patrons by establishing personal relationships with them and guiding them to find the help they need. The Kansas City Public Library holds a \"Coffee and Conversations\" program for homeless people every month in order to facilitate community among the city's homeless and to provide them with resources with which they might have difficulty connecting otherwise, such as legal advice. Offering these types of services and programs to homeless patrons gives librarians a way to proactively help instead of simply being \"reactionary\" to the homeless population's presence in their libraries.\n\nThe American Library Association has been active in helping libraries become more welcoming to homeless patrons. In 1990, they \"implemented a policy on library services for the poor.\" The goal of the program was to \"make sure libraries were open to [the poor] and to work on understanding poverty in the hopes of possibly finding out how to end it.\" The American Library Association maintains a web-based toolkit with resources and policy guidelines to help librarians provide services for people who are experiencing homelessness or poverty.\n\nHistorically, libraries have a strong connection to the immigrant population. Andrew Carnegie donated millions to opening libraries as a way to build \"a place for immigrant self-education, enlightenment, and the study of democracy and English.\" Libraries are committed to provide equal access of information to all people, but through the years, there have been issues relating to the accessibility of information for those who are immigrants of varying status. At the 2006-2007 ALA Midwinter Meeting, the ALA passed a resolution in support of immigrant rights stating, \"the ALA strongly supports the protection of each person's civil liberties, regardless of that individual's nationality, residency, or status; and, be it further resolved, that ALA opposes any legislation that infringes on the rights of anyone in the USA or its territories, citizens or otherwise, to use library resources, programs, and services on national, state, and local levels.\" This provided a starting point for libraries to provide various services to support immigrants in the community. For example, libraries were able to focus on building non-English collections. Librarians at the Chicago Public Library developed a world-language collection that spanned over 200 languages. In addition, the ALA's partnership with the Dollar General Literacy Foundation, through American Dream grants, have funded over 100 libraries.\n\nPrior to this, in 2004, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services department published a report identifying partnerships in the community to better serve the immigrant population. The USCIS focused on libraries as a way to bridge the resource gap. The report outlined various ways libraries could provide resources to the immigrant population that included programming, incorporating immigrants on advisory councils and working groups, and outreach. The USCIS has continued to rely on libraries to fill a critical role in serving immigrant communities. They have partnered with the IMLS to \"educate librarians, and in turn their immigrant customers, on topics ranging from naturalization, the unauthorized practice of immigration law, and the importance of digital literacy.\" Through the resources provided by the USCIS, libraries are creating \"Citizenship Corners\" as a way to provide information to immigrants to help them prepare for the citizenship interview and test. With resources provided by the USCIS, libraries are able to disseminate necessary information for immigrants who are seeking naturalization. Libraries are also providing naturalization information sessions and becoming hosts for administrative naturalization ceremonies.\n\nAccess to All to Every Library: Inclusive actions and Universal Design\n\nIn the United States, the Americans with disability Act (ADA) paved the way for access to all who required accommodations or modifications. Not every country in the world has required law for those in need. It is necessary to make sure to provide equity among all patrons. The term equity was used, because things are put in place to help those that need it; even though all do not need accommodations and modifications it is helpful for all to be fair and impartial which gives those with disabilities the feeling of acceptance within that adapted space.\n\nLibraries generally are required to provide access to all. \"The design of all public areas of a library shall comply with 8 (ADA reference to libraries), including reading and study areas, stacks, reference rooms reserve areas and special facilities or collections.\" Therefore, space between furniture must be a distance clearance to allow wheelchair pass through or a minimum width of 42 inches. Having this as a standard also allows walking space for those traveling in different directions as well as wheeling carts to move materials stored in the library. Along with space between the books and other furniture in the library.\n\nHistorically, early 19th prisons in the United States had collections of materials for the \"moral and religious education\" of their prisoners, and it was members of the clergy that served as librarians. Later in the 19th century, during the Prison Reform Movement, which advocated rehabilitation into society and education, rather than retribution for crimes committed; prison libraries were available as an incentive for good behavior. Prison administrators approved library use and materials provided, usually materials that \"furthered the reformative goals\" of the movement. In the 1930s the ALA and the American Correctional Association (ACA) published a manual directing the proper materials that should be made available for inmates. Through the 1970s prison libraries grew at an unprecedented rate. A major factor was the authorization of Congress for the Library Services and Construction Act (LSCA), providing federal funding for \"institutional library services.\" Furthermore, the U.S. Supreme Court decision of \"Bounds v. Smith,\" 430. U.S. 817 (1977) \"stipulated that all prisons must provide 'meaningful access to the courts through people trained in the law or through law library collections.'\" In 1996, the Supreme Court decision of \"Lewis v. Casey\" decision (518 U.S. 804), narrowed it earlier interpretations and limited the boundaries within which the correctional facilities were required to provide concerning legal assistance and resources. As a result, prison library collections were reduced or eliminated altogether, or simply not updated.\n\nToday the challenges that prison libraries face range from access to/lack of materials, lack of resources and programs, and untraditional learning environments, to appropriate training to access and lack of the proper technology to utilize those materials and resources. The fastest growing population in prisons is the elderly, due primarily to longer sentences and limited parole. Many facilities are overcrowded, and the incarceration rate of ethnic minorities is high, including the growing population of non- or limited English speaking inmates. Research shows that between 50 and 60 percent of prisoners and inmates did not finish high school.\n\nThe ALA's Association of Specialized and Cooperative Library Agencies (ASCLA) maintains an active forum for \"prison and jail librarians and others interested in library services to incarcerated persons.\" The Library Services to Prisoners Forum (LSPF) is a unit of the ASCLA that meets annually at the yearly ALA Conference to discuss topics that can help facilitate a successful library in a prison or jail. Finally, the ALA’s Office for Diversity, Literacy and Outreach Services (ODLOS) maintains a webpage with link that may be helpful for prison librarians, including documents, statistics, and facts about the criminal justice system.\n\nAs the printing industry expands, by the 1700s, the social culture shifts from the idea that only the wealthy should have access to books and education to the social premise of equitable access to education and books. In 1638, Harvard University establishes the first institutional library; by 1764, Harvard's library contains 5,000 volumes of books.\n\nHistorically, the library profession's claim to neutrality has drawn a line between professional issues such as literacy and so-called non-library issues such as war, politics, segregation, and poverty.\n\nWhile not explicitly employing the term social responsibility, the July 1852 Report of the Trustees of the Boston Public Library makes clear that the library has two primary social obligations:\n\n\nAdditionally, the idea that people agree to tax themselves for the support of the public library — an institution that activates human capabilities; diminishes the division between people of different classes; and provides access to information — is an indicator of our society's commitment to fundamental human rights, democracy, and social responsibility.\n\n\n\n\n\nThough many positive steps have been made, librarianship continues to face challenges to democracy, social responsibilities, and human rights. In recent years, libraries have banned homeless people from checking out books or even using the library's restrooms; books with homosexual themes have been moved to \"adult only\" areas; gay pride displays have been ordered down; Spanish-language materials have been refused to be purchased; and the Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA) and Deleting Online Predators Act (DOPA) have aimed to limit access to information available on the Internet.\n\nCensorship, intellectual freedom, closing of libraries, and discrimination remain critical issues for librarianship., while the ALA has no authority to enforce what individual library administrations do. Despite these challenges, librarians are fighting back against budget cuts and closures, providing access to materials, protecting the freedom of inquiry, and allowing groups to meet in their common areas. The ALA provides numerous tools to libraries and librarians and has developed several task forces to cover human rights issues. The ALA's 2015 Strategic Plan envisions a future in which librarians are committed to diversity, globalization of information, intellectual freedom, and social responsibility for the public good. McCook and Phenix (2011) argue that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights can provide libraries with a widely understood international document that can be used to guide development of policy, and services that help maintain policy.\n\nIn a 2017 interview Deidre Conkling, ALA SRRT Coordinator, observed: \"Today, just following the mission of libraries we are being thrown into an activist roll. When we stand up to other people and government agencies in support of free access to information today we are suddenly activists, even though this is what we have done for years. It is our job to fight for free access to information and to support the retention of all kinds of information, especially information created by our government agencies. We are now on the front lines of activism.\" \n\nMathiesen has proposed that governments have an obligation to create and fund public libraries, because access to them is a human right. Starting with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and appealing to recent work in Human Rights Theory, she argues that there is a right to information, which states are obligated to fulfill. Given that libraries are highly effective institutions for ensuring that this right is fulfilled, there is a derived human right to a public library.\n\nThe essay, \"True Community: Connecting the Millennium Development Goals to Public Library Services in the United States\" asserts that U.S. public libraries have the potential to actively participate in realizing the collective vision of the eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).\n\n2018 sees the start of a year-long campaign to commemorate the creation of the pivotal Declaration of Human Rights that is one of the three pillars of the United Nations. Human right abuses did not end with the creation of this document, it has and continues to help countless people gain more freedoms. The campaign started in Palais de Challoit in Paris.\n\nThe following individuals are noted for their contributions to the cause of human rights and the field of librarianship:\n\nThe organizations listed below exemplify the link between libraries, librarianship and human rights:\n\nThere are a number of awards provided by library organizations in an effort to encourage and acknowledge individuals who support various issues in human rights. This is a list of some of those awards:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3848809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3848809", "title": "Blind contour drawing", "text": "Blind contour drawing\n\nBlind contour drawing is a drawing exercise, where an artist draws the contour of a subject without looking at the paper. The artistic technique was introduced by Kimon Nicolaïdes in \"The Natural Way to Draw\", and it is further popularized by Betty Edwards as \"pure contour drawing\" in \"The New Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain\".\n\nThe student fixes their eyes on the outline of the model or object, then tracks the edge of the object with his or her eyes, while simultaneously drawing the contour very slowly, in a steady, continuous line without lifting the pencil or looking at the paper.\n\nNicolaïdes and Edwards propose different ideas of why blind contour drawing is an important method of drawing for art students. Nicolaïdes instructs students to keep the belief that the pencil point is actually touching the contour. He suggested that the technique improves students' drawings because it causes students to use both senses of sight and touch. Edwards suggests that pure contour drawing creates a shift from left mode to right mode thinking. The left mode of the brain rejects meticulous, complex perception of spatial and relational information, consequently permitting the right brain to take over. Blind contour drawing may not produce a good drawing; however, it helps students to draw more realistically, rather than relying on their memorized drawing symbols. Blind contour drawing trains the eye and hand to work as a team, and it helps students to see all of the details of the object.\n\nSome artists use contour drawing to warm up for a drawing session.\n"}
{"id": "35500544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35500544", "title": "Carlos Marichal", "text": "Carlos Marichal\n\nCarlos Marichal (born 1948) is a Mexican economic historian who currently works at El Colegio de México, where he has taught since 1989. He has done research and published widely on the economic and financial history of Latin America.\n\nHe received his Ph.D. in History from Harvard University (1977) and has been visiting professor at Stanford University (1998-1999), Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (1996), École des hautes études en sciences sociales (1994), Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona (1990, 1993 and 2009) and Universidad Complutense de Madrid (1987).\n\nHis best known work is the book \"A Century of Debt Crises in Latin America: From Independence to the Great Depression, 1820-1930\" (Princeton University Press, 1989). Barry Eichengreen wrote about Marichal's book as follows:\n\nHe is also the author of \"Bankruptcy of Empire: Mexican Silver and the Wars Between Spain, Britain, and France\" (Cambridge University Press, 2007). In September 2008, this work received the Alice Hanson Jones Biennial Prize of the Economic History Association of the United Status, as “Outstanding Book on North American Economic History”. Almost a year later in August 2009, the same work was awarded the Jaume Vicens Vives Prize of the Spanish Economic History Association, being judged the best book published on the economic history of Spain and Latin America in the biennial period of 2007-2008.\nHis more recently book publication is \"Nueva historia de las grandes crisis financieras, 1873-2008\" (Random House Mondadori, 2010). He is also the editor of a dozen collective monographs on the economic history of Latin America, including studies on banking and fiscal history as well as a number of joint studies on history of enterprise in Mexico in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.\n\nHe is founder and past president of the Mexican Economic History Association (2001-2004), and has served as member of the executive committee of the International Economic History Association during the years 2000-2008. He received a Guggenheim fellowship in 1994/95 and a Tinker Fellowship in 1997/98, as well other awards. He is also member of the academic boards of ten international journals on economic history and Latin American history, he is member of the Mexican Sistema Nacional de Investigadores, at the highest level. From 2003 until 2008 he was a member of the Board of Governors of El Colegio de México.\n\nAs author\n\n\nAs editor\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23439419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23439419", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1975", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1975\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1975 was the third Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in Kingston, Jamaica, between 29 April 1975 and 6 May 1975, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Michael Manley. \n\nAmong the topics discussed were nuclear disarmament, the situation in Rhodesia, South Africa and decolonization in Southern Africa, the Turkish invasion and occupation of northern Cyprus, the end of the Vietnam War, the aftermath of the war between Bangladesh and Pakistan and other regional issues.\n"}
{"id": "10407562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10407562", "title": "DIG: an archaeological adventure", "text": "DIG: an archaeological adventure\n\nDIG is an educational resource owned by the York Archaeological Trust which aims to increase understanding of archaeology and related matters.\n\nDIG is based in St Saviour's Church, one of York's medieval churches, which became redundant in the 1950s. It was acquired by the Trust in 1975. Between 1990 and 2005, the building was called the Archaeological Resource Centre. In April 2006, it reopened as DIG.\n\nActivities in which visitors can engage include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "590397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590397", "title": "David Gareja monastery complex", "text": "David Gareja monastery complex\n\nDavid Gareja () is a rock-hewn Georgian Orthodox monastery complex located in the Kakheti region of Eastern Georgia, on the half-desert slopes of Mount Gareja, some 60–70 km southeast of Georgia's capital Tbilisi. The complex includes hundreds of cells, churches, chapels, refectories and living quarters hollowed out of the rock face.\n\nPart of the complex is located in the Agstafa rayon of Azerbaijan and has become subject to a border dispute between Georgia and Azerbaijan. The area is also home to protected animal species and evidence of some of the oldest human habitations in the region.\n\nThe complex was founded in the 6th century by David (St. David Garejeli), one of the thirteen Assyrian monks who arrived in the country at the same time. His disciples Dodo and Luciane expanded the original lavra and founded two other monasteries known as Dodo's Rka (literally, \"the horn of Dodo\") and Natlismtsemeli (\"the Baptist\"). The monastery saw further development under the guidance of the 9th-century Georgian saint Ilarion. The convent was particularly patronized by the Georgian royal and noble families. The 12th-century Georgian king Demetre I, the author of the famous Georgian hymn \"Thou Art a Vineyard\", even chose David Gareja as a place of his confinement after he abdicated the throne.\n\nDespite the harsh environment, the monastery remained an important centre of religious and cultural activity for many centuries; at certain periods the monasteries owned extensive agricultural lands and many villages. The renaissance of fresco painting chronologically coincides with the general development of the life in the David Gareja monasteries. The high artistic skill of David Gareja frescoes made them an indispensable part of world treasure. From the late 11th to the early 13th centuries, the economic and cultural development of David Gareja reached its highest phase, reflecting the general prosperity of the medieval Kingdom of Georgia. New monasteries Udabno, Bertubani and Chichkhituri were built, the old ones were enlarged and re-organized.\n\nWith the downfall of the Georgian monarchy, the monastery suffered a lengthy period of decline and devastation by the Mongol army (1265), but was later restored by the Georgian kings. It survived the Safavid attack of 1615, when the monks were massacred and the monastery's unique manuscripts and important works of Georgian art destroyed, to be resurrected under Onopre Machutadze, who was appointed Father Superior of David Gareja in 1690.\n\nAfter the violent Bolshevik takeover of Georgia in 1921, the monastery was closed down and remained uninhabited. In the years of the Soviet–Afghan War, the monastery's territory was used as a training ground for the Soviet military that inflicted damage to the unique cycle of murals in the monastery. In 1987, a group of Georgian students led by the young writer Dato Turashvili launched a series of protests. Although, the Soviet defense ministry officials finally agreed to move a military firing range from the monastery, the shelling was resumed in October 1988, giving rise to generalized public outrage. After some 10,000 Georgians demonstrated in the streets of Tbilisi and a group of students launched a hunger strike at the monastery, the army base was finally removed.\n\nAfter the restoration of Georgia's independence in 1991, the monastery life in David Gareja was revived. However, in 1996, the Georgian defense ministry resumed military exercises in the area, leading to renewed public protests. In May 1997, hundreds of Georgian NGO activists set up their tents in the middle of the army's firing range and blocked the military maneuvers. The army officials finally bowed to the public pressure and the exercises were banned.\n\nThe monastery remains active today and serves as a popular destination of tourism and pilgrimage.\n\nBecause the complex is partially located on the territory of Azerbaijan, it has become subject to a border dispute between Georgia and Azerbaijan, with ongoing talks since 1991. Georgian monks at the monastery say that \"they see the dispute as the result of Soviet scheming to undermine relations between Christian Georgians and Muslim Azerbaijanis.\" Giorgi Manjgaladze, Georgia's deputy foreign minister proposed that Georgia would be willing to exchange other territory for the remainder of David Gareja because of its historical and cultural significance to the Georgians. Baku disapproves of this land swap because of David Gareja's strategic military importance. \"There is no room for territorial exchange. There are no negotiations over this issue,\" stated Azerbaijan's deputy foreign minister Khalaf Khalafov.\nIn April 2007, Khalafov told a press conference in that it was \"out of the question\" for Azerbaijan to \"give up its claims to the borderlands\" including David Gareja. He then made a controversial statement that the monastery \"was home to the Caucasian Albanians, who are believed to have been the earliest inhabitants of Azerbaijan.\" This prompted a response from Georgian foreign minister Gela Bezhuashvili. \"It is absolutely unclear to me why my colleague made these remarks,\" he told reporters in Tbilisi. \"His history lessons are absolutely incomprehensible. He should read up on world history.\"\n\nThe Albanian theory is also supported by some Azerbaijani historians who are strongly opposed to transferring any part of their territory to Georgia. \"The monastery was inside Georgia only in the 12th century,\" stated Ismail Umudlu, an Azeri journalist and historian. \"Both before and after this period, the area was part of a state to which Azerbaijan is a successor.\" Georgian art historian Dimitri Tumanishvili dismissed this claim and stated that the complex \"is covered in the work of Georgian masters.\" \"There are Georgian inscriptions everywhere dating back to the sixth century,\" he said \"There are no traces of another culture there. After that, I don’t think you need any further proof.\" \"The idea that this monastery was founded by the Caucasus Albanians is simply absurd,\" said Zaza Datunashvili, a monk from David Gareja. \"You might as well say that Georgians built the Great Wall of China.\"\n\nGeorgian President Mikheil Saakashvili downplayed the dispute and said that \"it can be resolved through friendly dialogue.\" However, Giga Bukia, a member of the Georgian parliament with the Rightist Opposition stated that \"Georgians will never, under any circumstances, give up this territory\" and also accused the government of softening its position on the complex in order to secure financial aid from Azerbaijan. \"Azerbaijan has absolutely no historical rights to this land,\" he said. \"And what is this talk of it being a strategic location? Are they planning to go to war with Georgia?\"\n\nAzeri officials confirmed that Azerbaijan \"is open to implementation of joint projects with Georgia for the restoration of the complex.\" However, official suggestions that the complex could be a \"shared tourist zone\" have sparked indignation from the Georgian public. Catholicos-Patriarch of All Georgia Ilia II said that \"the monastery was a holy shrine that should lie entirely on Georgian soil.\" A number of fresh rounds of \"border delimitation\" talks have been conducted between Azeri and Georgian authorities (in Tbilisi and then in Baku).\n\n"}
{"id": "339989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339989", "title": "Don Henley", "text": "Don Henley\n\nDonald Hugh Henley (born July 22, 1947) is an American musician, singer, songwriter, record producer and founding member of the Eagles. Henley was the drummer and co-lead vocalist for the Eagles from 1971 to 1980, when the band broke up, and from 1994 to 2016, when they reunited. Following a year-long break due to Eagles founder Glenn Frey's death, Henley reformed the band in summer 2017 for the Classic West and Classic East rock festivals, hiring Vince Gill and Deacon Frey to replace Glenn and becoming the last remaining original member. Henley sang the lead vocals on Eagles hits such as \"Witchy Woman\", \"Desperado\", \"Best of My Love\", \"One of These Nights\", \"Hotel California\", \"Life in the Fast Lane\", \"The Long Run\" and \"Get Over It\".\n\nAfter the Eagles broke up in 1980, Henley pursued a solo career and released his debut album \"I Can't Stand Still\", in 1982. He has released five studio albums, two compilation albums, and one live DVD. His solo hits include \"Dirty Laundry\", \"The Boys of Summer\", \"All She Wants to Do Is Dance\", \"The Heart of the Matter\", \"The Last Worthless Evening\", \"Sunset Grill\", \"Not Enough Love in the World\", and \"The End of the Innocence\".\n\nThe Eagles have sold over 150 million albums worldwide, won six Grammy Awards, had five No. 1 singles, 17 Top 40 singles, and six No. 1 albums. They were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998 and are the biggest selling American band in history. As a solo artist, Henley has sold over 10 million albums worldwide, had eight Top 40 singles, won two Grammy Awards and five MTV Video Music Awards. Combined with the Eagles and as a solo artist, Henley has released 25 Top 40 singles on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. He has also released seven studio albums with the Eagles and five as a solo artist. In 2008, he was ranked as the 87th greatest singer of all time by the \"Rolling Stone\" magazine.\n\nHenley has also played a founding role in several environmental and political causes, most notably the Walden Woods Project. From 1994 to 2016, he divided his musical activities between the Eagles and his solo career.\n\nDonald Hugh Henley was born in Gilmer and grew up in the small northeast Texas town of Linden. He is the son of Hughlene (McWhorter) and C. J. Henley. He has Irish, English and Scottish ancestry. Henley attended Linden-Kildare High School where he initially played football, but due to his relatively small build his coach suggested that he quit, and he joined the high school band instead. He first played the trombone, then in the percussion section. After leaving high school in 1965, he initially attended college at Stephen F. Austin State University in Nacogdoches, Texas. He then attended North Texas State University (renamed in 1988 as the University of North Texas) in Denton, Texas, from 1967 to 1969. Henley left school to spend time with his father, who was dying from heart and arterial disease.\n\nWhile still at high school, Henley was asked to join a Dixieland band formed by his childhood friend Richard Bowden's father Elmer, together with another school friend Jerry Surratt. They then formed a band called the Four Speeds. In 1964 the band was renamed Felicity, then finally Shiloh, and went through a number of changes in band personnel. As the Felicity they were signed to local producer and released a Henley-penned song called \"Hurtin'\". In 1969, they met by chance fellow Texan Kenny Rogers who took an interest in their band. They changed their name to Shiloh and recorded a few songs for Rogers, and \"Jennifer (O' My Lady)\" was released as their first single. Surratt however died in a dirt bike accident just before their single was released, and the band members then became Henley, Richard Bowden and his cousin Michael Bowden, Al Perkins, and Jim Ed Norman. Rogers helped sign the band to Amos Records, and brought the band to Los Angeles in June 1970. They recorded a self-titled album produced by Rogers at Larrabee Studios, while living at the home of Rogers for a few months. Shiloh disbanded in 1971 over the band's leadership and creative differences between Henley and Bowden,\n\nIn Los Angeles, Henley met Glenn Frey as they were both signed to the same label (Frey was signed to Amos Records, together with J. D. Souther, as the duo Longbranch Pennywhistle), and they were recruited by John Boylan to be members of Linda Ronstadt's backup band for her tour in 1971. Touring with her was the catalyst for forming a group, as Henley and Frey decided to form their own band. They were joined by Randy Meisner and Bernie Leadon who also played in Ronstadt's backing band (the four however had only played together once before as the band personnel changed) and became the Eagles.\n\nThe Eagles were formed in September 1971, and signed to David Geffen's label Asylum Records. They released their first studio album in 1972, which contained the hit song \"Take It Easy,\" written by Jackson Browne. During the band's run, Henley co-wrote (usually with Frey) most of the band's best-known songs. \"Witchy Woman\", which was co-written with Leadon, was his first commercially successful song, while \"Desperado\" marks the beginning of his songwriting partnership with Frey.\n\nHenley sang lead vocals on many of the band's popular songs, including \"Desperado,\" \"Witchy Woman,\" \"Best of My Love,\" \"One of These Nights\", \"Hotel California\", \"The Long Run\", \"Life in the Fast Lane\" and \"Wasted Time.\" The Eagles won numerous Grammy Awards during the 1970s and became one of the world's most successful rock bands of all time. They are also among the top 5 overall best-selling bands of all time in America and the highest selling American band in U.S. history. Henley and Frey have been called the American version of McCartney and Lennon.\n\nThe band broke up in 1980, following a difficult tour and personal tensions that arose during the recording of \"The Long Run\". The Eagles reunited 14 years later in 1994. Henley continues to tour and record with the Eagles. Their latest album, \"Long Road Out of Eden\", was released in 2007. The band had a number of highly successful tours, such as the Hell Freezes Over Tour (1994-1996), and Long Road Out of Eden Tour. On April 1, 2013, during a concert at the Casino Rama in Rama, Ontario, Henley announced the History of the Eagles Tour, which began in July 2013 and ended in July 2015, six months before Frey's death. At the 2016 Grammy Awards, the Eagles and Jackson Browne performed \"Take It Easy\" as a tribute to Frey.\n\nOn his songwriting in the band, Henley stated in a March 2001 interview on \"Charlie Rose\" that \"rock bands work best as a benevolent dictatorship,\" with the principal songwriters in a band (in the case of the Eagles, \"me and Glenn Frey\") being the ones that will likely hold the power.\n\nFollowing the breakup of the Eagles, Henley embarked on a solo career. He and Stevie Nicks (his girlfriend at the time) had duetted on her Top 10 Pop and Adult Contemporary hit \"Leather and Lace\", written by Nicks for Waylon Jennings and his wife Jessi Colter, in late 1981. Henley's first solo album, \"I Can't Stand Still\", was a moderate seller. The single \"Dirty Laundry\" reached No. 3 on \"Billboard\" Hot 100 at the beginning of 1983 and earned a Gold-certified single for sales of over a million copies in the US. It was Henley's all-time biggest solo hit single, and also was nominated for a Grammy Award. Henley also contributed \"Love Rules\" to the 1982 \"Fast Times at Ridgemont High\" movie soundtrack.\n\nThis was followed in 1984 by the album, \"Building the Perfect Beast\". A single release, \"The Boys of Summer\", reached No. 5 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The music video for the song was directed by Jean-Baptiste Mondino and won several MTV Video Music Awards including Best Video of the Year. Henley also won the Grammy Award for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance for the song. Several other songs on the album, \"All She Wants to Do Is Dance\" (No. 9 on Hot 100), \"Not Enough Love in the World\" (No. 34) and \"Sunset Grill\" (No. 22) also received considerable airplay. He then had a No. 3 album rock chart hit with \"Who Owns This Place?\" from 1986's \"The Color of Money\" soundtrack.\nHenley's next album, 1989's \"The End of the Innocence\", was even more successful. The album's title track, a collaboration with Bruce Hornsby, reached No. 8 as a single. \"The Heart of the Matter\", \"The Last Worthless Evening\" and \"New York Minute\" were among other songs that gained radio airplay. Henley again won the Best Male Rock Vocal Performance Grammy Award in 1990 for \"The End of the Innocence\". Also in 1990, Henley made a brief appearance on MTV's \"Unplugged\" series.\n\nIn 1995 Henley released the single \"The Garden of Allah\" to promote his greatest hits solo album \"\".\n\nMusicRadar called Henley one of the greatest singing drummers of all time.\n\nIn live shows, Henley plays drums and sings simultaneously on some Eagles songs. On his solo songs and other Eagles songs, he plays electric guitar and simultaneously sings or just sings solo. Occasionally Eagles songs would get drastic rearrangements, such as \"Hotel California\" with four trombones.\n\nHenley spent many years in legal entanglements with Geffen Records. In January 1993, following prolonged tensions between Henley and the label, the dispute went public and the record company filed a $30-million breach-of-contract suit in the Superior Court after receiving a notice from Henley saying that he was terminating his contract even though he reportedly owed the company two more studio albums and a greatest-hits collection. Henley wanted to sign a publishing deal with EMI that would have been worth a few million dollars. Geffen Records stopped this from happening, which in turn upset Henley.\n\nGeffen Records claimed that Henley was in breach of contract and Henley attempted to get out of his contract in 1993 based on an old statute. Under the statute, a California law enacted over 50 years ago to free actors from long-term studio deals, entertainers cannot be forced to work for any company for more than seven years. Geffen Records did not want Henley signing with any other label, and had an agreement from Sony and EMI that they would not sign Henley. He counter-sued Geffen Records, claiming that he was \"blackballed\" by David Geffen, who had made agreements with other record labels not to sign him. Henley eventually became an outspoken advocate for musicians' rights, taking a stand against music labels who he believes refuse to pay bands their due royalties. Henley came to terms with Geffen Records when the Eagles' reunion took off and the company eventually took a large chunk of the profit from the reunion album. Glenn Frey was also in legal entanglements with his label, MCA Records (whose parent company had also acquired Geffen). Before the Eagles reunion tour could begin, the band had to file a suit against Elektra Records, which had planned to release a new Eagles \"Greatest Hits\" album. The band won that battle.\n\nA long period without a new recording followed, as Henley waited out a dispute with his record company while also participating in a 1994 Eagles reunion tour and live album. During the hiatus, Henley recorded a cover of \"Sit Down, You're Rockin' the Boat\" for the film \"Leap of Faith\", and provided the background vocals for country star Trisha Yearwood's hit single \"Walkaway Joe\", and duetted with Patty Smyth on \"Sometimes Love Just Ain't Enough\", and Roger Waters on \"Watching TV\" on Waters' \"Amused to Death\" album, in 1992. Henley provided the voice of Henry Faust in \"Randy Newman's Faust\", a 1993 musical which was released on compact disc that year.\n\nHenley and Courtney Love testified at a California Senate hearing on that state's contractual laws in Sacramento on September 5, 2001. In 2002 Henley became the head of the Recording Artists' Coalition. The coalition's primary aim was to raise money to mount a legal and political battle against the major record labels. Henley says the group seeks to change the fundamental rules that govern most recording contracts, including copyright ownership, long-term control of intellectual property and unfair accounting practices. This group filed a friend-of-the-court brief in the Napster case, urging District Judge Marilyn Hall Patel not to accept the industry's broad claims of works made for hire authorship.\n\nIn 2000, after 11 years, Henley released another solo album named \"Inside Job\" which peaked at number 7 on The Billboard 200 and contained the new singles \"Taking You Home\", \"Everything Is Different Now\", \"Workin' It\" and \"For My Wedding\". He performed songs from the album in a \"VH1 Storytellers\" episode during 2000. In 2002 a live DVD entitled \"Don Henley: Live Inside Job\" was released. In 2005 Henley opened 10 of Stevie Nicks' concerts on her Two Voices Tour.\n\nHenley performed duets with Kenny Rogers on Rogers' 2006 release \"Water & Bridges\", titled \"Calling Me\" and on Reba McEntire's 2007 album, \",\" performing \"Break Each Other's Hearts Again\".\n\nIn a 2007 interview with CNN, while discussing the future of the Eagles, Henley indicated he still has plans for more records: \"But we all have some solo plans still. I still have a contract with a major label [Warner] for a couple of solo albums.\" In January 2011, Henley commenced work on a solo album of country covers featuring special guests. Ronnie Dunn from Brooks & Dunn and Alison Krauss have recorded a song with Henley for the album.\n\nOn July 18, 2015, Henley started pre-orders of his album, \"Cass County\". The album was released on September 25.\n\nIn 1990, Henley founded the Walden Woods Project to help protect \"Walden Woods\" from development. The Thoreau Institute at Walden Woods was started in 1998 to provide for research and education regarding Henry David Thoreau. In 1993, a compilation album titled \"\" was released, with a portion of the royalties from the sales going to the Walden Woods Project. In 2005, he had a fundraiser concert with Elton John and others to buy Brister's Hill, part of Walden Woods, and turn it into a hiking trail.\n\nHenley co-founded the non-profit Caddo Lake Institute in 1993 with Dwight K. Shellman to underwrite ecological education and research. As part of the Caddo Lake Coalition, CLI helps protect the Texas wetland where Henley spent much of his childhood. As a result of the Caddo Lake Institute's success in restoring and protecting Caddo Lake's wetlands, Caddo Lake was included as the 13th site in the United States on the Ramsar Convention's list of significant wetlands. The Ramsar Convention is an intergovernmental treaty that provides a framework for national action and international cooperation for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources.\n\nIn 2000, Henley co-founded the Recording Artists' Coalition, a group founded to protect musicians' rights against common music industry business practices. In this role he testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary in 2001 and the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation in 2003.\n\nHenley in a 2008 interview revealed that he contributes to many other worthy charitable causes such as The Race to Erase MS, and the Rhythm and Blues Foundation. He is also a member of the CuriosityStream Advisory Board.\n\nA lifelong supporter of the Democratic Party, Henley has also been a generous donor to political campaigns of Democrats. In 2008, \"The Washington Post\" reported Henley had donated over $680,000 to political candidates since 1978. Several tracks on the 2007 Eagles album \"Long Road Out of Eden\" (including the title track, which Henley co-wrote) are sharply critical of the Iraq War and other policies of the Bush administration.\n\nIn 1974, Henley became involved with Loree Rodkin, and the breakup of their relationship was the inspiration for the song \"Wasted Time\" and parts of the lyrics for \"Hotel California\". Late in 1975, Henley started dating Fleetwood Mac singer Stevie Nicks as her relationship with Lindsey Buckingham came to an end. The relationship lasted on and off for around two years. Nicks later wrote a song \"Sara\" that Henley claimed is about their unborn child. Henley then began a three-year-long relationship with actress/model and Bond girl Lois Chiles.\n\nHenley called paramedics to his home on November 21, 1980, where a 16-year-old girl was found naked and claiming she had overdosed on quaaludes and cocaine. She was arrested for prostitution, while a 15-year-old girl found in the house was arrested for being under the influence of drugs. He was subsequently charged for contributing to the delinquency of a minor, fined and put on probation. Henley was arrested and pleaded no contest. He was fined $2,500 and put on two years' probation. Chiles, who was no longer in a relationship with Henley at the time of the incident, later said, \"I was shocked to hear about it. He didn't have drugs around the house. It was an accident, I'm sure.\"\n\nIn the early 1980s, Henley was engaged to \"Battlestar Galactica\" actress Maren Jensen. His first solo album (\"I Can't Stand Still\") is dedicated to Jensen, who also sings harmony vocals on the song, \"Johnny Can't Read.\" Henley and Jensen separated in 1986.\n\nIn 1995, Henley married Sharon Summerall. Performers at the wedding included Bruce Springsteen, Sting, Billy Joel, John Fogerty, Jackson Browne, Sheryl Crow, Glenn Frey, and Tony Bennett. Henley later wrote the song \"Everything Is Different Now\" from the album \"Inside Job\" for Sharon. Summerall has been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. They have three children together, two girls and a boy.\n\nIn 2012, Henley was estimated to be the fourth wealthiest drummer in the world, behind Ringo Starr, Phil Collins and Dave Grohl, with a $200 million fortune.\n\nAs of 2018, he resides in Dallas, Texas, with his wife and three children. Henley also maintains a home in Hollywood, California\n\nDuring the Eagles' activities from the 1970's to 1980, Henley used Ludwig and Tama drums. \n\n\n\nHenley has won 2 Grammys, and further award associated with Grammy, MusiCares Person of the Year. He has also won a number of other awards, such as the MTV Music Video Awards for \"The Boys Of Summer\" in 1985, and \"The End of the Innocence\" in 1990. See the article on Eagles for awards won as the band.\n\nIn May 2012, Henley was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Music from Berklee College of Music along with Timothy Schmit and Glenn Frey.\n\nIn 2015, Henley received the Trailblazer Award from the Americana Music Honors & Awards.\n\n!scope=\"row\"|1983\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"4\"|1986\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"4\"|1990\n!scope=\"row\" |1993\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"3\"|2001\n!scope=\"row|2002\n!scope=\"row|2003\n!rowspan=\"2\" scope=\"row\" |2007\n!scope=\"row\"|2016\n\n"}
{"id": "35005007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35005007", "title": "En attendant les hommes", "text": "En attendant les hommes\n\nEn attendant les hommes is a 2007 documentary film by Katy Léna N'diaye about women muralists in Oualata, Mauritania. In this town on the far edge of the Sahara desert, three women practice traditional painting, and decorate the walls of the town. In a society apparently dominated by tradition, religion and men, these women unreservedly express themselves and comment freely on the relationship between men and women.\n"}
{"id": "16386720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16386720", "title": "Eva Lundgren", "text": "Eva Lundgren\n\nEva Lundgren (born November 24, 1947) is a Norwegian-Swedish sociologist. She is an expert on violence against women and sexual violence, particularly in religious contexts. She is Professor Emerita of sociology at Uppsala University.\n\nLundgren is best known for developing the theory of the process of normalization of violence, according to which, abused women gradually adopt the perspective of their abusers. Lundgren has written several books on violence, sexuality and religion. She held a government-appointed chair of sociology at Uppsala University 1993–2011, to study \"the relation between power and gender in family and society, particularly in regard to men's violence against women\", and has been a Visiting Professor at several universities, including New York University. Since 2017 she has been active in the Me Too debate.\n\nA native of Flekkefjord, she started her career as a model and studied at the University of Bergen, where she earned her (6-year) Candidate's degree in Theology in 1978 and her doctoral degree in 1985. She was first employed as a Research Fellow at the University of Bergen, and was appointed an Associate Professor in 1986. She was head of the Department of Gender Studies at the University of Bergen 1987-1988, and was found to be competent as a full professor in 1988. In 1989, she was appointed a Docent (Reader) in Theology at Uppsala University, relocating to Stockholm.\n\nIn 1993, she was appointed Professor of Sociology at Uppsala University by the government of Sweden, to study the \"relation between power and gender in family and society, in particular men's violence against women\". She was installed as a Professor with a military parade and gave her inaugural lecture on eroticised power in Uppsala Cathedral. She was a Visiting Professor at New York University from 1996 to 1997, and has also held visiting professorships at the University of North London, the University of Bradford and Åbo Akademi University. In 2003, Lundgren became head of department for the newly created Department of Gender Studies (Samgenus) at Uppsala University.\n\nTheoretically, Lundgren has focused on developing the concept of the process of normalisation, a model to explain how battered women gradually break down and accept the violent situation. Lundgren has also argued that men who systematically use sexualised violence against their partner do so in order to consolidate their position of power, rather than to satisfy a sexual desire.\n\nIn recent years, Lundgren's research has focused on the Knutby murder. Her 2008 book \"The Knutby Code\", published simultaneously in Swedish and Norwegian, is a critical analysis of the Knutby case.\n\nLundgren's research has had considerable influence on public policy in Sweden, particularly under the social democratic governments in the 1990s and early 2000s. One of her supporters is Margareta Winberg, the former deputy PM and Minister for Gender Equality, who once described Lundgren as \"cool\". The 1998 Violence Against Women Act (Kvinnofridslagen) is said to be based on Lundgren's research.\n\nA controversial TV documentary on radical feminism in Sweden titled \"The Gender War\", which was aired in 2005, generated debate on Eva Lundgren's work in both Sweden and Norway. This led Uppsala University's rector Bo Sundqvist to first announce a public debate on Lundgren's research, then cancel the debate and appoint a commission consisting of political scientist Jörgen Hermansson and philosopher Margareta Hallberg to investigate Lundgren's research. The inquiry cleared her of any wrongdoing, although Hallberg and Hermansson aimed criticism at her conclusions. However, the inquiry and the report were criticized by Uppsala University's chief lawyer Marianne Andersson, who stated that Hallberg and Hermansson's criticism of Lundgren's conclusions was inappropriate and illegal in the context of such a report, and not in their mandate, which was solely to investigate claims of wrongdoing. Lundgren dismissed the criticism. 14 leading researchers in Lundgren's field of study also criticized the \"unique\" inquiry, stating that Hermansson and Hallberg were not competent to assess Lundgren's research. The university committed itself to restoring Lundgren's reputation, granting her and her research group increased funding in compensation for having subjected her to an unjustified inquiry.\n\nIn 2011, Eva Lundgren resigned from her chair at Uppsala University, stating that she will concentrate on her international career in the future, and criticizing Uppsala University for not doing enough to support her. She had previously criticized the university for not honouring the agreement to restore her reputation. Lundgren is writing a book on what she considers an attack on feminist scholarship in Sweden.\n\nIn the context of the Me Too debate in 2017, the Swedish newspaper \"Svenska Dagbladet\" wrote that Lundgren had been proven right and that the criticism of her in the early 2000s had been discredited. In 2018, also in the context of the Me Too debate, Lundgren and legal scholar Jenny Westerstrand wrote that the Swedish journalistic profession bore a large part of the blame in Sweden for the problems the debate had highlighted because Swedish journalists had systematically attacked critical discussion of and research on men's violence against women for over 20 years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28341403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28341403", "title": "Exploration of the Americas", "text": "Exploration of the Americas\n\nThe exploration of the Americas includes:\n"}
{"id": "41281181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41281181", "title": "Fifty Shades of Oy Vey: A Parody", "text": "Fifty Shades of Oy Vey: A Parody\n\nFifty Shades of Oy Vey: A Parody by E.L. Jamesbergstein is a parody of E.L. James' \"Fifty Shades of Grey\". It was published in print and e-book editions by Alfred A. Knish in 2013. Described on its book jacket as \"So erotic, you'll plotz,\" the comic novel, which follows the outline of the original \"Fifty Shades of Grey\", tells the story of the relationship between a beautiful young woman, Anatevka Stein, and a portly bagel tycoon, Chaim Silver.\n\nWhen Baruch college senior Anatevka Stein goes to interview Chaim Silver for the Hillel Newsletter, she encounters a brilliant, lecherous owner of a bagel making plant. Successful, overweight and reeking of herring, he still lives with his mother. Anatevka finds herself irresistibly drawn to all of these qualities. In a series of encounters, Chaim introduces Anatevka to increasingly unusual sexual techniques, often involving Jewish food and Jewish holidays. He also asks her to sign a Kinky Ketubah spelling out their respective sexual obligations. At times, he serenades her with melancholy music on his accordion. As the love story progresses, it gradually reveals the reasons for Chaim Silver's inner sadness and neurotic behavior.\n\nJournalists and reviewers in the U.S., Canada and overseas have mentioned the spoof of the \"Fifty Shades\" books in a generally positive way. \"Fifty Shades of Oy Vey: A Parody\" was also cited and its cover used on the WCBS website's coverage of \"Fifty Shades of Grey\" and its parodies. An excerpt appeared on the Jewish erotica website Jewrotica.org on March 9, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "675321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675321", "title": "Immanuel Wallerstein", "text": "Immanuel Wallerstein\n\nImmanuel Maurice Wallerstein (; born September 28, 1930) is an American sociologist, historical social scientist, and world-systems analyst, arguably best known for his development of the general approach in sociology which led to the emergence of his world-systems approach. He publishes bimonthly syndicated commentaries on world affairs. He has been a Senior Research Scholar at Yale University since 2000.\n\nHaving grown up in a politically conscious family, Wallerstein first became interested in world affairs as a teenager while living in New York City. He received all three of his degrees from Columbia University: a BA in 1951, an MA in 1954, and a PhD in 1959. However, throughout his life, Wallerstein has also studied at other universities around the world, including Oxford University from 1955–56,\nUniversité libre de Bruxelles, Universite Paris 7 Denis Diderot, and Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1953 Wallerstein served in the U.S. Army. After returning from his service, he wrote his master's thesis on McCarthyism as a phenomenon of American political culture, which was widely cited and which, Wallerstein states, \"confirmed my sense that I should consider myself, in the language of the 1950s, a 'political sociologist. Eleven years later, on May 25, 1964, he married Beatrice Friedman; the couple have one daughter.\n\nWallerstein's academic and professional career began at Columbia University, where he started as an instructor and later became an associate professor of sociology from 1958 to 1971. During his time there, he served as a prominent supporter of the students during the Columbia University protests of 1968. In 1971, he moved from New York to Montreal, where he taught at McGill University for five years.\n\nOriginally, Wallerstein's prime area of intellectual concern was not American politics, but politics of the non-European world, most especially those of India and Africa. For two decades, Wallerstein served as an Africa scholar, publishing numerous books and articles, and in 1973, became president of the African Studies Association.\n\nIn 1976, Wallerstein was offered the unique opportunity to pursue a new avenue of research, and so became head of the Fernand Braudel Center for the Study of Economies, Historical Systems and Civilization at Binghamton University in New York, whose mission is \"to engage in the analysis of large-scale social change over long periods of historical time.\" The Center was opened with the publishing support of a new journal \"Review\" (of which Wallerstein was the founding editor), and would go on to produce a body of work that \"went a long way toward invigorating sociology and its sister disciplines, especially history and political-economy.\" Wallerstein would serve as a distinguished professor of sociology at Binghamton until his retirement in 1999.\n\nThroughout his career, Wallerstein has held visiting professor posts at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, British Columbia, and Amsterdam, among numerous others. He has been awarded multiple honorary titles, intermittently served as Directeur d'études associé at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and was president of the International Sociological Association between 1994 and 1998. Similarly, during the 1990s, he chaired the Gulbenkian Commission on the Restructuring of the Social Sciences, whose object was to indicate a direction for social scientific inquiry for the next 50 years.\n\nSince 2000, Wallerstein has served as a Senior Research Scholar at Yale University. He is also a member of the Advisory Editors Council of the \"Social Evolution & History\" journal. In 2003, he received the Career of Distinguished Scholarship Award from the American Sociological Association, and in 2004 was awarded with the Gold Kondratieff Medal by the International N. D. Kondratieff Foundation and the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (RAEN).\n\nWallerstein began as an expert of post-colonial African affairs, which he selected as the focus of his studies after attending international youth conferences in 1951 and 1952. His publications were almost exclusively devoted to this until the early 1970s, when he began to distinguish himself as a historian and theorist of the global capitalist economy on a macroscopic level. His early criticism of global capitalism and championship of \"anti-systemic movements\" have recently made him an \"éminence grise\" with the anti-globalization movement within and outside of the academic community, along with Noam Chomsky and Pierre Bourdieu.\n\nHis most important work, \"The Modern World-System\", has appeared in four volumes since 1974, with additional planned volumes still forthcoming. In it, Wallerstein draws on several intellectual influences:\n\n\nHowever, Wallerstein categorizes Frantz Fanon, Fernand Braudel, and Ilya Prigogine as the three individuals that have had the greatest impact \"in modifying my line of argument (as opposed to deepening a parallel line of argument).\" In \"The Essential Wallerstein\", he chronologically lists the three individuals and describes their influence on his views:\n\n\nWallerstein has also stated that another major influence on his work was the \"world revolution\" of 1968. He was on the faculty of Columbia University at the time of the student uprising there, and participated in a faculty committee that attempted to resolve the dispute. He has argued in several works that this revolution marked the end of \"liberalism\" as a viable ideology in the modern world system. He also argued that the end of the Cold War, rather than marking a triumph for liberalism, indicates that the current system has entered its 'end' phase; a period of crisis that will end only when it is replaced by another system. Wallerstein anticipated the growing importance of the North–South divide at a time when the main world conflict was the Cold War..\n\nHe has argued since 1980 that the United States is a \"hegemon in decline\". He was often mocked for making this claim during the 1990s, but since the Iraq War this argument has become more widespread. Overall, Wallerstein sees the development of the capitalist world economy as detrimental to a large proportion of the world's population. Similar to Marx, Wallerstein predicts that capitalism will be replaced by a socialist economy.\n\nWallerstein has both participated in and written about the World Social Forum.\n\nWallerstein's first volume on world-systems theory (\"The Modern World System\", 1974) was predominantly written during a year at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (now affiliated with Stanford University). In it, he argues that the modern world system is distinguished from empires by its reliance on economic control of the world order by a dominating capitalist center (core) in systemic economic and political relation to peripheral and semi-peripheral world areas.\n\nWallerstein rejects the notion of a \"Third World\", claiming that there is only one world connected by a complex network of economic exchange relationships — i.e., a \"world-economy\" or \"world-system\" in which the \"dichotomy of capital and labor\" and the endless \"accumulation of capital\" by competing agents (historically including, but not limited, to nation-states) account for frictions. This approach is known as the world-system theory.\n\nWallerstein locates the origin of the modern world-system in 16th-century Western Europe and the Americas. An initially slight advance in capital accumulation in Britain, the Dutch Republic, and France, due to specific political circumstances at the end of the period of feudalism, set in motion a process of gradual expansion. As a result, only one global network or system of economic exchange exists in modern society. By the 19th century, virtually every area on earth was incorporated into the capitalist world-economy.\n\nThe capitalist world-system is far from homogeneous in cultural, political, and economic terms; instead, it is characterized by fundamental differences in social development, accumulation of political power, and capital. Contrary to affirmative theories of modernization and capitalism, Wallerstein does not conceive of these differences as mere residues or irregularities that can and will be overcome as the system evolves.\n\nA lasting division of the world into \"core\", \"semi-periphery\", and \"periphery\" is an inherent feature of world-system theory. Other theories, partially drawn on by Wallerstein, leave out the semi-periphery and do not allow for a grayscale of development. Areas which have so far remained outside the reach of the world-system enter it at the stage of \"periphery\". There is a fundamental and institutionally stabilized \"division of labor\" between core and periphery: while the core has a high level of technological development and manufactures complex products, the role of the periphery is to supply raw materials, agricultural products, and cheap labor for the expanding agents of the core. Economic exchange between core and periphery takes place on unequal terms: the periphery is forced to sell its products at low prices, but has to buy the core's products at comparatively high prices. Once established, this unequal state tends to stabilize itself due to inherent, quasi-deterministic constraints. The statuses of core and periphery are not exclusive and fixed geographically, but are relative to each other. A zone defined as \"semi-periphery\" acts as a periphery to the core and as a core to the periphery. At the end of the 20th century, this zone would comprise Eastern Europe, China, Brazil, and Mexico. It is important to note that core and peripheral zones can co-exist in the same location.\n\nOne effect of the expansion of the world-system is the commodification of things, including human labor. Natural resources, land, labor, and human relationships are gradually being stripped of their \"intrinsic\" value and turned into commodities in a market which dictates their exchange value.\n\nIn the last two decades, Wallerstein has increasingly focused on the intellectual foundations of the modern world-system and the pursuit of universal theories of human behavior. In addition, he has shown interest in the \"structures of knowledge\" defined by the disciplinary division between sociology, anthropology, political science, economics, and the humanities, which he himself regards as Eurocentric. In analyzing them, he has been highly influenced by the \"new sciences\" of theorists like Ilya Prigogine.\n\nWallerstein's theory has provoked harsh criticism, not only from neo-liberal or conservative circles, but even from some historians who say that some of his assertions may be historically incorrect. Some critics suggest that Wallerstein tends to neglect the cultural dimension of the modern world-system, arguing that there is a world system of global culture which is independent from the economic processes of capitalism; this reduces it to what some call \"official\" ideologies of states which can then easily be revealed as mere agencies of economic interest. Nevertheless, his analytical approach, along with that of associated theorists such as Andre Gunder Frank, Terence Hopkins, Samir Amin, Christopher Chase-Dunn, Thomas D. Hall and Giovanni Arrighi, has made a significant impact on the field and has established an institutional base devoted to the general approach of intellectual inquiry. Their ideology has also attracted strong interest from the anti-globalization movement.\n\nCapitalist world-system\nWallerstein's definition follows dependency theory, which intended to combine the developments of the different societies since the 16th century in different regions into one collective development. The main characteristic of his definition is the development of a global division of labour, including the existence of independent political units (in this case, states) at the same time. There is no political center, compared to global empires like the Roman Empire; instead, the capitalist world-system is identified by the global market economy. It is divided into core, semi-periphery, and periphery regions, and is ruled by the capitalist method of production.\n\nCore/periphery\nDefines the difference between developed and developing countries, characterized e.g. by power or wealth. The core refers to developed countries, the periphery to the dependent developing countries. The main reason for the position of the developed countries is economic power.\n\nSemi-periphery\nDefines states that are located between core and periphery, and who benefit from the periphery through unequal exchange relations. At the same time, the core benefits from the semi-periphery through unequal exchange relations.\n\nQuasi-monopolies\nDefines a kind of monopoly where there is more than one service provider for a particular good/service. Wallerstein claims that quasi-monopolies are self-liquidating because new sellers go into the market by exerting political pressure to open markets to competition.\n\nKondratiev wavesA Kondratiev wave is defined as a cyclical tendency in the world's economy. It is also known as a \"supercycle.\" Wallerstein argues that global wars are tied to Kondratiev waves. According to him, global conflicts occur as the summer phase of a wave begins, which is when production of goods and services around the world are on an upswing.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58208186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58208186", "title": "Inquisitive semantics", "text": "Inquisitive semantics\n\nInquisitive semantics is a framework in logic and natural language semantics which captures both informative and inquisitive content. In inquisitive semantics, sentences are associated with semantic objects which capture both the information they convey and the issues that they raise. Inquisitive semantics was originally developed by Ivano Ciardelli, Jeroen Groenendijk, and Floris Roelofsen.\n\nThe essential notion in inquisitive semantics is that of an \"inquisitive proposition\".\n\n\nInquisitive propositions encode informational content via the region of logical space which their information states cover. For instance, consider a simple inquisitive proposition which contains only a singleton information state and the empty set formula_1. This inquisitive proposition conveys the information that the actual world must be }. In this respect, inquisitive propositions aren't very different from classical propositions, which also convey information by carving out a region of logical space. However, inquisitive propositions differ from classical ones in that they also convey inquisitive content by offering different avenues which one can take in refining their information. These avenues are provided by the maximal information states of an inquisitive proposition, which we call its \"alternatives\". An inquisitive proposition can be thought of as raising the issue of which of its alternatives contains the actual world. \n\n\nTo see how inquisitive propositions work, let's look at two brief examples. Consider the inquisitive proposition \"P\" which contains two singleton information states and , as well as the empty set formula_1. \"P\" conveys the information that the actual world must either be \"w\" or \"w\", but it also raises the issue of which of those two ways the world actually is. Contrast this with the inquisitive proposition \"Q\" which consists of the information state and all of its subsets. This inquisitive proposition conveys the same informational content as \"P\", but it differs in its inquisitive content. Since \"Q\" contains only a single maximal information state, it offers only a single avenue for refining its information, and therefore doesn't raise any non-trivial issues.\n\nWe can isolate the informational content of an inquisitive proposition by pooling its constituent information states as shown below.\n\n\nWe will make use of inquisitive propositions in order to provide an alternative interpretation of the language of propositional logic. Since the set of inquisitive propositions ordered by the subset relation forms a Heyting algebra, we can use the inventory of basic algebraic operations as the basis of our semantics. For instance, for every proposition \"P\" we have a relative pseudocomplement formula_4 which amounts to formula_5. Similarly, for any propositions \"P\" and \"Q\" we have a meet and a join which amount to formula_6 and formula_7 respectively. Thus we can assign inquisitive propositions to formulas of formula_8 as shown below.\n\nGiven a model formula_9 where \"W\" is a set of possible worlds and \"V\" is a valuation function: \n\n\nWe will also use the operators ! and ? as abbreviations in the manner shown below.\n\n\nConceptually, the !-operator can be thought of as cancelling the issues raised by whatever it applies to while leaving its informational content untouched. For any formula formula_16, the inquisitive proposition formula_17 expresses the same information as formula_18, but it may differ in that it raises no nontrivial issues. For example, if formula_18 is the inquisitive proposition \"P\" from a few paragraphs ago, then formula_17 is the inquisitive proposition \"Q\".\n\nThe ?-operator trivializes the information expressed by whatever it applies to, while converting information states which would establish that its issues are unresolvable into states which resolve it. This is very abstract, so let's consider another example. Imagine that logical space consists of four possible worlds, \"w\", \"w\", \"w\", and \"w\", and consider a formula formula_16 such that formula_18 contains , , and of course formula_1. This proposition conveys that the actual world is either \"w\" or \"w\" and raises the issue of which of those worlds it actually is. Therefore, the issue it raises would not be resolved if we learned that the actual world is in the information state . Rather, learning this would show that the issue raised by our toy proposition is unresolvable. As a result, the proposition formula_24 contains all the states of formula_18, along with and all of its subsets.\n\n"}
{"id": "30940837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30940837", "title": "International Hygiene Exhibition", "text": "International Hygiene Exhibition\n\nThe International Hygiene Exhibition was a world's fair focusing on medicine and public health, held in Dresden, Germany, in 1911.\n\nThe leading figure organizing the exhibition was German philanthropist and businessman , who had grown wealthy from his Odol mouthwash brand, and was enthusiastic to educate the public about advances in public health. Lingner had previously organized a public-health exhibition as part of the 1903 Dresden municipal expo, and its success led him to plan a larger endeavor.\n\nThe exhibition opened on May 6, 1911, with 30 countries participating, 100 buildings built for the event, and 5 million visitors over its duration. It emphasized accessible visual representations of the body, and a particular sensation were the transparent organs preserved and displayed according to a method devised by Werner Spalteholz.\n\nFollowing the exhibition, its contents became the permanent German Hygiene Museum in Dresden. Its success spawned several follow-up expos, most notably the 1926 \"GeSoLei\" exhibition in Düsseldorf.\n\nOther International Exhibitions of Hygiene were held in:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932073", "title": "Jade burial suit", "text": "Jade burial suit\n\nA jade burial suit () is a ceremonial suit made of pieces of jade in which royal members in Han dynasty China were buried.\n\nOf the jade suits that have been found, the pieces of jade are mostly square or rectangular in shape, though triangular, trapezoid and rhomboid plaques have also been found. Plaques are often joined by means of wire, threaded through small holes drilled near the corners of each piece. The composition of the wire varies, and several suits have been found joined with either gold or silver. Other suits, such as that of King Zhao Mo, were joined using silk thread, or silk ribbon that overlapped the edges of the plaques. In some instances, additional pieces of jade have been found beneath the head covering, including shaped plaques to cover the eyes, and plugs to fit the ears and nose.\n\nAccording to the \"Book of Later Han\", the type of wire used was dependent on the status of the person buried. The jade burial suits of emperors used gold thread; princes, princesses, dukes, and marquises, silver thread; sons or daughters of those given silver thread, copper thread; and lesser aristocrats, silk thread, with all others being forbidden to be buried in jade burial suits. Examination of the known suits, such as the two found in Mancheng, has revealed that these rules were not always followed. Considering the vast size of the country, and the relatively slow means of disseminating information, it is not surprising that the materials and techniques used in a jade burial suit occasionally differed from the official guidelines.\n\nA jade burial suit was extremely expensive to create, and only wealthy aristocrats could afford to be buried in them. Additionally, the process of manufacturing a suit was labor-intensive and is estimated to have required several years to complete a single suit.\n\nTombs from the Spring and Autumn period belonging to the dukes of the Jin state in Quwo were discovered in which the body was covered with small jade pieces once interwoven with silk.\n\nFor many years, many archaeologists suspected that records of jade burial suits were only legends. The discovery in 1968 of two complete jade suits in the tombs of Liu Sheng and Dou Wan in Mancheng, Hebei, finally proved their existence. The jade suits of Liu Sheng and Dou Wan consisted of 2,498 plates of solid jade connected with two and a half pounds of gold wires.\n\nIn 1973, a jade burial suit belonging to Prince Huai of the Western Han Dynasty was discovered in Dingxian, Hebei. It consisted of 1,203 pieces of jade and 2,580 grams of gold thread.\n\nIn 1983, a jade suit was found in the tomb of Zhao Mo, the second king of Southern Yue, in Guangzhou. The red silk thread used to bind the 2,291 jade plates represented Zhao Mo's immersion into local culture. It is exhibited in the local Museum of the Mausoleum of the Nanyue King.\n\nIn 1991, a jade burial suit was excavated from a group of monumental tombs of the King of Chu, Liu Wu, in Xuzhou. This magnificent, life-sized jade and gold burial suit is the finest to have survived, thereby possessing a high value for artistic appreciation. \n\nIt is now believed that jade burial suits were actually relatively common among the wealthiest aristocrats of the Han Dynasty, but that over the years most have been lost due to the activities of grave robbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22953663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22953663", "title": "Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur", "text": "Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur\n\nJews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur was painted by Polish Jewish artist Maurycy Gottlieb in 1878. It depicts Jews in the midst of the Yom Kippur service, on one of the holiest days of the Jewish calendar.\n\nYom Kippur is the Jewish holiday of repentance, a time for Jews to repent for their sins and reflect on their behaviour in the past and coming year. As Soussloff writes in Jewish Identity in Modern Art History, “Yom Kippur is also the occasion in the Jewish year when the dead are solemnly commemorated (in the service called Yizkor), and Gottlieb has injected into this picture several prominent self-memorials.” In his book Painting a People, Ezra Mendelsohn confirms that Gottlieb’s subject in this painting is the Days of Atonement: “Nathan Samuely, who discussed the work with Gottlieb in 1878, does specifically connect it, in his German essay on the artist published in 1885, with Yom Kippur, and informs us that the artist himself had the idea of painting it during the days of repentance preceding this holiday.”\n\nThe painting is composed of glazed (semi-transparent) oil paint. Gottlieb used the technique of impasto (wide, three-dimensional brushstrokes), and physically created patterns from the paint. This contributes to the painting's richness and depth.\n\nThe figures in the painting appear solemn, and some appear to be in anguish, particularly the central figure (the artist himself), leaning his head on his hand. The adult men are wearing tallitot (ritual garments often referred to in English as prayer shawls) and kippot (head coverings). There is a Torah scroll in the center of the composition, stained glass windows in the back, and candles on the top left. Women look on from the women's balcony; it has been suggested that one of the women is a depiction of Laura, the artist's fiancée.\n\nThe artist Maurycy Gottlieb appears in the painting three different times, depicted in different stages of his life. In one self-portrait he is an adult, in another he is a young child, and in the third self-portrait he is depicted as an adolescent. Ezra Mendelsohn writes, “Maurycy himself stands, in a colorful, exotic-looking talith, with head in hand. On the left we have the artist as a small boy, wearing a medallion with his initials written in Hebrew. On the extreme right is a young male figure, perhaps again Maurycy, reading from the prayer book alongside a man who might well be his father. Malinowski assumes that this is the case when he says that the painting presents ‘an account of [the artist's] whole life’.”\n\nIt has been suggested that the artist placed his fiancée Laura among the female worshippers, at the right of the column whispering to another woman (perhaps her mother), and to the left of the column, holding a prayerbook in hand. In the painting, many of the figures are people that are close to Gottlieb or people he knew at the time. As said by the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, Maurycy Gottlieb created this work of art at the young age of 22 years old; a year later, Gottlieb would pass away. Most of the 20 figures depicted here represent people close to the artist.\n\nThere are many characteristics that create a somber tone within this painting. Author Jonathan Boyarin described motifs present in the image as “sadness, nostalgia, and beautification. There is no religious ecstasy, no intensity of emotion, only a pervasive melancholy.” The holiday of Yom Kippur is a solemn holiday when it is said that the Book of Life is sealed, and the fates of all those living are decided for the coming year. Certainly this aspect of the occasion would contribute to the sobriety of its depiction.\n\nThe somber character of the painting may also reflect the time in which it was painted. During the late 19th century, Jews in what is now Ukraine were living under the auspices of the Russian Empire, in the Pale of Settlement. Antisemitic discrimination was systemic and everpresent, and pogroms and expulsions occurred. Living under this regime in a time of deep antisemitic discrimination and political instability may have had a major impact on Gottlieb's work.\n\nHowever, the painting may also evoke the anguish Gottlieb experienced in his personal life. Gottlieb may have suffered from depression, and in fact referenced his own suicide in the painting. The mantle of the Torah scroll is inscribed with a Hebrew dedication: “... donated in memory of ... R. Moshe [Maurycy’s Hebrew name] Gottlieb, the righteous of blessed memory.” A year after the painting's completion, the aforementioned Laura married another man, breaking her engagement with Gottlieb. He became ill and died shortly thereafter; some believe as a result of physical ailment, but others suspect it was death by suicide due to deep depression.\n\nMaurycy Gottlieb, ”Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur.” Tel Aviv Museum of Art, accessed January 31, 2017, http://www.tamuseum.org.il/collection-work/8224.\n\nBoyarin, Jonathan. “Painting a People: Maurycy Gottlieb and Jewish Art.” Slavic Review 2004.\n\nGilya and Schmidt. The Art and Artists of the Fifth Zionist Congress, 1901: Heralds of a New Age. Syracuse University Press, 2003.\n\nMałaszewska, Wanda. \"Gottlieb, Maurycy.\" Grove Art Online, accessed March 19, 2017, http://oxfordindex.oup.com/view/10.1093/gao/9781884446054.article.T033787\n\nMendelsohn, Ezra. Painting a People: Maurycy Gottlieb and Jewish Art. Hanover: University Press of New England [for] Brandeis University Press, 2002.\n\nRishon, Mekor. \"Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur by Maurycy Gottlieb.\"Accessed January 31, 2017, http://yaelmaly.blogspot.com/2016/10/jews-p praying-in-synagogue-on-yom-kippur.html.\n\nSoussloff, Catherine M. Jewish Identity in Modern Art History. Berkeley [u.a.]: Univ. of California Press, 1999.\n"}
{"id": "51257231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51257231", "title": "John Beasley Greene", "text": "John Beasley Greene\n\nJohn Beasley Greene, also John Beasly Greene, (1832 Le Havre, France – to 1856 Cairo, Egypt) was an Egyptologist and one of the earliest archaeological documentary photographers.\n\nThe son of an American banker, Greene was born in Le Havre and then lived in at 10 rue de la Grange Bateliere in the 9th arrondissement of Paris.\n\nHis work combined two passions: the new technology of photography and the discovery of Ancient Egypt. After his father's death in 1850, Greene was able to finance his first trip to Egypt in 1854.\n\nHe was a founding member of the Société française de photographie, founded on 15 November 1854.\n\nIn Algeria in late 1855 and early 1856 he photographed his excavation campaigns of the Royal Mausoleum of Mauretania led by Louis-Adrien Berbrugger.\n\nHe left Egypt shortly afterwards and died of tuberculosis in Cairo at the age of 24.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59170916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59170916", "title": "Life of the Party: A Political Press Tart Bares All", "text": "Life of the Party: A Political Press Tart Bares All\n\nLife of the Party: A Political Press Tart Bares All is a 2011 memoir by Lisa Baron describing her time as a spokesperson for Ralph Reed.\n\nLisa Baron is a Jewish woman who, despite not sharing Reed's political reviews, went to work for him. Baron stated that the book reveals previously secret information including Reed's view of the Jack Abramoff Indian lobbying scandal and Baron's sexual life; Kirkus Reviews stated that sexual encounters \"seem almost quaint\" since there was a \"long list of prominent conservatives who have been caught doing much worse\".\n\nMichelle Goldberg, an opinion columnist of \"The New York Times\", characterized the book as \"a self-portrait of a cynical, fame-hungry narcissist\".\n\nKirkus Reviews described the book as \"A misguided focus on sex and booze overshadows the moments of insight and inspiration.\" It criticized the focus on social life over day-to-day life in politics.\n"}
{"id": "1678583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678583", "title": "Limmu", "text": "Limmu\n\nLimmu was an Assyrian eponym. At the beginning of the reign of an Assyrian king, the limmu, an appointed royal official, would preside over the New Year festival at the capital. Each year a new limmu would be chosen. Although picked by lot, there was most likely a limited group, such as the men of the most prominent families or perhaps members of the city assembly. The Assyrians used the name of the limmu for that year to designate the year on official documents. Lists of limmus have been found accounting for every year between 892 BC and 648 BC.\n\nDuring the Old Assyrian period, the king himself was never the \"limmum\", as it was called in their language. In the Middle Assyrian and Neo-Assyrian periods, however, the king could take this office.\n\n"}
{"id": "12759452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12759452", "title": "Linguistic marketplace", "text": "Linguistic marketplace\n\nIn sociolinguistics, the notion of linguistic marketplace, also known as linguistic market, refers to the symbolic market where linguistic exchanges happen. On linguistic markets, linguistic capital—a subtype of the broader concept of cultural capital according to Pierre Bourdieu—is exchanged, and different languages and varieties have different symbolic values.\n\nOn the standard linguistic market, standard languages usually enjoy more value due to the high overt prestige associated with them while on linguistic markets that value non-standard varieties, vernaculars can also enjoy a higher value. This concept has been proven to be useful in understanding other sociolinguistic concepts such as language variation and change and gender.\n"}
{"id": "6144979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6144979", "title": "List of FoxTrot books", "text": "List of FoxTrot books\n\nThere have been 39 \"FoxTrot\" books published so far, all by Andrews McMeel Publishing. Of the 39 books, 27 are collections and 12 are anthologies. The anthologies are composed of the two or three previous collections, and include Sunday strips in color.\n\nBeginning with \"Death by Field Trip\", the size and shape of the regular collections changed to accommodate a new Sunday strip layout. The books also became shorter (and much cheaper) to create a larger gap between anthologies.\nOriginally, the anthologies were made up of the previous two smaller collections, with color Sunday strips (as opposed to black and white in the smaller books). Starting with \"FoxTrot: Assembled with Care\", the anthologies are made up of the three previous smaller books.\n"}
{"id": "31191005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31191005", "title": "List of Ripley's Believe It or Not! episodes (2000–03)", "text": "List of Ripley's Believe It or Not! episodes (2000–03)\n\nThis is a list of episodes of the \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" television series, which was hosted by Dean Cain and aired on TBS from 2000 to 2003.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12981064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12981064", "title": "Mastodon State Historic Site", "text": "Mastodon State Historic Site\n\nMastodon State Historic Site is a publicly owned, archaeological and paleontological site with recreational features in Imperial, Missouri, maintained by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, preserving the Kimmswick Bone Bed. Bones of mastodons and other now-extinct animals were first found here in the early 19th century. The area gained fame as one of the most extensive Pleistocene ice age deposits in the country and attracted scientific interest worldwide. \n\nThe site was purchased by the state in 1976 following an effort to preserve it from destruction with the construction of Interstate 55. Archaeological history was made at the site in 1979 when scientists excavated a stone spear point made by hunters of the Clovis culture (14,000–10,000 years ago) in direct association with mastodon bones. This was the first solid evidence of the coexistence of people and these giant prehistoric beasts. The Kimmswick Bone Bed was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nA museum tells the natural and cultural story of the oldest American Indian site one can visit in the state's park system. A full-size replica of a mastodon skeleton highlights the exhibits. A picnic area, hiking trails, and a special-use campground offer chances to explore the land where the lives of Native Americans and mastodons once intertwined.\n\n"}
{"id": "5506770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5506770", "title": "Matched-guise test", "text": "Matched-guise test\n\nThe matched-guise test is a sociolinguistic experimental technique used to determine the true feelings of an individual or community towards a specific language, dialect, or accent. This experiment was first introduced by Wallace Lambert and his colleagues at McGill University in 1960s to determine attitudes held by bilingual French Canadians towards English and French (Davies & Elder 2004:189, Agheyisi & Fishman, 1970). \n\nIn this technique experimental candidates listening to apparently different speakers representing guises in two or more languages and evaluating those speakers across various traits including body height, good looks, leadership, sense of humor, intelligence, religiousness, self-confidence, dependability, kindness, ambition, sociability, character, and likability (Stefanowitsch 2005). Without the knowledge of the informant (the listener of guises), the speaker is actually a bilingual or polyglot and the reactions elicited by each of their linguistic guises are compared not as individual's guises but as actual speech of an individual.\n\nSince the initial aim of these studies range from the influence of linguistic attitudes on educational and political systems to their influence on workplace environments, Lambert's technique has proven successful in identifying and eliciting certain stereotypes toward particular social groups. The matched-guise technique has been widely used in bicultural settings such as in Quebec, as well as in cross-cultural studies and multi-ethnic societies, and it has been employed not only as an instrument in comparing attitudes toward languages, but also toward variations in dialects and accents. And depending on particular listener, a speaker's accent, speech patterns, vocabulary, intonation, etc., can all serve as markers for evaluating speaker's appearance, personality, social status, and character. Among other things, listeners also possess language attitudes, which they use to evaluate the speakers whom they are hearing.\n\nThe matched-guise technique was developed and pioneered by Lambert et al. (1960) to evaluate the reactions of Montreal residents towards both French-speakers and English-speakers. Lambert continued to implement the matched-guise technique to further studies, including an investigated on how people evaluated English speakers with and without a Jewish accent (Anisfeld 1962), moving beyond the technique's original purpose of evaluating attitudes to different languages.\n\nThe same technique has been applied to English-speakers in the United Kingdom. In an investigation into assessing people's varying reactions to London and Yorkshire accents (Strongman and Woosley 1967), the judges of the various guises were all students and were split equally into a “southern” and a “northern” group. The results, however, did not show much variation in the judges' attitudes towards the accents.\n\nThe matched-guise test has since been used on many other countries for a range of other languages and dialects.\n\n\nIn certain scenarios it may be impossible for the passages to be spoken by the individual due to the likelihood that the listener recognizes \nspeakers as one and the same. To avoid this many studies have used different speakers to read the passage. This is problematic as it is difficult to control for differences between the speakers, such as speed or intonation (Tsalikis et al. 1991). Another method is to split up the listeners into two groups and have each group listen to only a single guise, in which case it becomes necessary to include identical filler material to see if the two groups rate identical passages similarly (Stefanowitsch 2005).\n\nGardner and Lambert (1972) point out some of the limitations of his method:\n\nAnother aspect of this technique with negative connotations are its experimental features: the matched guise technique is usually used with groups in classrooms or laboratories and has thus been qualified as artificial or not very 'natural'; Robinson (1978) also believes that\nexperimental situations, by their nature, force individuals to provide an answer. Moreover, the use of oral stimulus material created for the experiment has increased skepticism about obtaining significant results with this technique (Tajfel, 1962; Lee, 1971; Robinson, 1972). Lee (1971) even suggests that repeating the message can mean that 'judges' focus on the linguistic features of the varieties used more than they would in a normal and unconditioned situation.\n\nMoreover, this technique presupposes that the linguistic varieties evaluated have only one functional style (Agheyisi & Fishman, 1970). Thus, it is unable to explain the social meaning of speakers' multistylistic capacity in different contexts or degrees of knowledge of the linguistic varieties evaluated. However, efforts have been made to improve the matched-guise test to cater for this (Howard & Bourhis 1976).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2445030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2445030", "title": "Mooncalf", "text": "Mooncalf\n\nA mooncalf (or moon-calf, calvaluna) is a monstrous birth, the abortive fetus of a cow or other farm animal. The term was occasionally applied to an abortive human fetus.\n\nThe term derives from the once widespread superstition, present in many European folk traditions, that such malformed creatures were the product of the sinister influence of the Moon on fetal development.\n\nThe term came to also refer to any monstrous or grotesque thing. Shakespeare, for instance, used the term to describe Caliban, the deformed servant of Prospero, in \"The Tempest\".\n\nIn H. G. Wells' 1901 novel \"The First Men in the Moon\", large creatures domesticated by the Selenites are referred to as \"mooncalves.\"\n\nMooncalf is used as a derogatory term indicating someone is a dullard, fool or otherwise not particularly bright or sharp. For example, W. C. Fields in \"The Bank Dick\" (1940) advises his prospective son-in-law to avoid being a \"mooncalf\" by buying shares he has been conned into believing are worth much more than the proffered price.\n\nMooncalf is also the name of a species of magical creatures in the world of the Harry Potter series. It is described in \"Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them\" as a shy, nocturnal creature with a smooth, pale grey body, bulging eyes and four spindly legs with large flat feet. Mooncalves perform dances in the moonlight, and are apparently responsible for crop circles. In the film of the same name, Newt Scamander's collection of creatures in his suitcase includes a herd of Mooncalves.\n\nWilfred Maxwell, narrator and protagonist of occultist Dion Fortune’s 1938 novel, \"The Sea Priestess\", refers several times to a mentally handicapped character who falls into the sea and disappears as a \"mooncalf\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1823520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823520", "title": "Māhū", "text": "Māhū\n\nIn the pre-colonial history of Hawai'i, Māhū were notable priests and healers, although much of this history was elided through the intervention of missionaries. A surviving monument to this history is the four so-called \"wizard\" stones in Waikiki, which commemorated four important Māhū healer priests from the early history of Hawaii. Hawaiian historian Mary Kawena Pukui mentions twelve male supernatural beings called \"papa pae māhū\", said to be \"hermaphrodite\" healers from Kahiki, the ancient homeland of Hawaiians. \n\nAccording to māhū kumu hula Kaua'i Iki:\nWhen painter Paul Gauguin first came to Tahiti he was thought to be a māhū, due to his flamboyant manner of dress for the times. His 1893 painting \"Papa Moe\" depicts a māhū drinking from a small waterfall.\n\nMissionaries to Hawai'i introduced homophobic and transphobic biblical laws to the islands in the 1820s; under their influence Hawai'i's first anti-sodomy law was passed in 1850. These laws led to the social stigmatization of the māhū in Hawai'i. Beginning in the mid-1960s the Honolulu City Council required trans-women to wear a badge identifying themselves as male. \n\nIn American artist George Biddle's \"Tahitian Journal\" (1920–1922) he writes about several māhū friends in Tahiti, of their role in native Tahitian society, and of the persecution of a māhū friend Naipu, who fled Tahiti due to colonial French laws that sent māhū and homosexuals to hard labor in prison in New Caledonia. Rae rae is a social category of māhū that came into use in Tahiti in the 1960s, although it is criticized by some māhū as an abject reference to sex work.\n\nDuring World War II, māhū and gender bending peoples of the South Pacific were encountered by American men and women in the U.S. military and helped influence the beginnings of gay liberation. Māhū and fa'afafine of Samoa and other queer cultures of the Pacific began organizing from the 1980s, as māhū and queer Pacific Islanders were beginning to receive international recognition in various fields.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the word \"mahuwahine\" was coined within the māhū community: māhū (in the middle) + wahine (woman), similar to Samoan fa'a (the way of) + fafine (woman/wife).\n\nNotable contemporary \"\", or mahuwahine, include activist and kumu hula Hinaleimoana Kwai Kong Wong-Kalu, Hokuleʻa Borofsky, Amelia Rachel, \"'Gender Identity Disorder' to Go the Way of Homosexuality\", in \"The Atlantic\". Oct 29, 2012. Accessed Dec 7, 2017.</ref> kumu hula Kaumakaiwa Kanaka'ole, and kumu hula Kaua'i Iki; and within the wider māhū LGBT community, historian Noenoe Silva, activist Ku‘u-mealoha Gomes, singer and painter Bobby Holcomb, and singer Kealii Reichel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12585628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12585628", "title": "New York Friars Club", "text": "New York Friars Club\n\nThe Friars Club is a private club in New York City, founded in 1904 that hosts risqué celebrity roasts. The club's membership is composed mostly of comedians and other celebrities. It is located at 57 East 55th Street, between Park Avenue and Madison Avenue, in a building known as the Monastery.\n\nThe organization traces its roots to 1904, when representatives of the Broadway theatres working with New York publicists organized the Press Agents' Association to exchange lists of people who were fraudulently receiving complimentary passes to shows. The group regularly met at Browne's Chop House. Shortly thereafter it began its tribute dinners to theatrical celebrities, the first being Clyde Fitch. The impresario Oscar Hammerstein was toasted in 1908, the year in which the Friars moved into a clubhouse at 107 West 47th Street.\n\nThe first Friars Frolics were held in 1911, with Abbot George M. Cohan working with Will Rogers, Irving Berlin (who wrote \"Alexander's Ragtime Band\" for the event), and Victor Herbert; the money generated by the Frolics enabled them to purchase 106-108-110 West 48th Street. Under Abbot Cohan it laid a cornerstone on the building in 1915. In 1924 Walter Donaldson wrote the music for \"My Blue Heaven\" one afternoon while waiting in the club for his turn at the billiard table.\n\nIn 1950 Sam Levenson and fellow comedian Joe E. Lewis were the first members of the New York Friars Club to be roasted. The club has roasted a member every year since the inaugural roasting.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2002, the club's roasts were aired on Comedy Central, which then began organizing its own annual roasts.\n\nThe Friars Club moved into its current headquarters in 1957, an English Renaissance mansion built for Speyer & Company investment banker Martin Erdman by architects Alfredo S. G. Taylor and Levi in 1908. Friars Club roasts were first televised in the late 1960s, first as part of the \"Kraft Music Hall\" series and later \"The Dean Martin Show\". From 1998 to 2002, the roasts were broadcast on Comedy Central.\n\nIn 1999 filmmaker Dean Ward's documentary \"Let Me In, I Hear Laughter: A Salute to the Friars Club\" was shown on Cinemax. It featured previously unseen footage of roasts and interviews with Friars such as Milton Berle, Buddy Hackett, Sid Caesar, Steve Allen, Henny Youngman, Jeffrey Ross, Larry King, Ed McMahon, and Phyllis Diller.\n\nIn 2001 Hugh Hefner's roast at the Friars Club was the scene of Gilbert Gottfried's public telling of the Aristocrats joke, made famous by the documentary of the same name. In 2004 the City of New York named the southeast corner of 55th Street, where the clubhouse stands, Friars Way.\n\nIn 2008, the Friars Club began a stand-up comedy competition, \"So You Think You Can Roast!?\" On October 24 of that year, the winner performed at the Friars Club roast of Matt Lauer. The inaugural Friar's Club Comedy Film Festival was held in September 2009, opening with the American premiere of the Coen Brothers' \"A Serious Man\".\n\nFrederick F. Schrader is credited with suggesting \"Friars\" as the organization's name. Following the theme, their monthly newsletter is the \"Epistle\". Officers of the Club (as distinct from the Friars Foundation) are given monastic titles: Larry King is the current dean, Freddie Roman is the Dean Emeritus. Jerry Lewis was the Abbot, named in 2006 during a roast in New York City. Previous abbots have included Alan King, Frank Sinatra, Ed Sullivan and George M. Cohan.\nIn the 1960s, the Friars Club, the Lambs Club, and the Players Club were often confused. The columnist Earl Wilson put it this way in 1964: \"Long ago a New Yorker asked the difference between the Lambs, Friars, and Players, since the membership was, at the time, predominantly from Broadway.\" It was left to \"a wit believed to have been George S. Kaufman\" to draw the distinction: \"The Players are gentlemen trying to be actors, the Lambs are actors trying to be gentlemen, and the Friars are neither trying to be both.\"\n\nMichael Gyure is the executive director of the Friars Club and of its charitable arm, the Friars Foundation.\n\n\nIn its debut year, the festival featured the US premiere of the Coen brothers’ Academy Award–nominated film \"A Serious Man\". Other festival highlights include screenings of Lena Dunham’s \"Tiny Furniture\", Christopher Morris’s \"Four Lions\", and the Oscar-winning short \"God of Love\". In 2011 Jerry Lewis and Russel Simmons presented a comedy achievement award to Brett Ratner. In 2012 the festival hosted America Ferrera and David Cross, the stars of the opening film \"It's a Disaster\". According to the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"The festival has quietly become one of the city's most sharply curated cinema gatherings. It takes the funny business seriously.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21131780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21131780", "title": "Newspeak", "text": "Newspeak\n\nNewspeak is the language of Oceania, a fictional totalitarian state and the setting of the novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (1949), by George Orwell. The ruling Party of Oceania created the Newspeak language to meet the ideological requirements of English Socialism (Ingsoc). Newspeak is a controlled language, of restricted grammar and limited vocabulary, meant to limit the freedom of thought—personal identity, self-expression, free will—that ideologically threatens the régime of Big Brother and the Party, who thus criminalized such concepts as thoughtcrime, contradictions of Ingsoc orthodoxy.\n\nIn \"The Principles of Newspeak\", the appendix to the novel, George Orwell explains that Newspeak usage follows most of the English grammar, yet is a language characterised by a continually diminishing vocabulary; complete thoughts reduced to simple terms of simplistic meaning. Linguistically, the contractions of Newspeak—\"Ingsoc\" (English Socialism), \"Minitrue\" (Ministry of Truth), etc.—derive from the syllabic abbreviations of Russian, which identify the government and social institutions of the Soviet Union, such as \"politburo\" (Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union), \"Comintern\" (Communist International), \"kolkhoz\" (collective farm), and \"Komsomol\" (Young Communists' League). The long-term political purpose of the new language is for every member of the Party and society, except the Proles—the working-class of Oceania—to exclusively communicate in Newspeak, by the year A.D. 2050; during that 66-year transition, the usage of Oldspeak (Standard English) shall remain interspersed among Newspeak conversations.\n\nNewspeak is also a constructed language, of planned phonology, grammar, and vocabulary, like Basic English, which Orwell promoted (1942–44) during the Second World War (1939–45), and later rejected in the essay \"Politics and the English Language\" (1946), wherein he criticises the bad usage of English in his day: dying metaphors, pretentious diction, and high-flown rhetoric, which produce the meaningless words of \"doublespeak\", the product of unclear reasoning. Orwell's conclusion thematically reiterates linguistic decline: \"I said earlier that the decadence of our language is probably curable. Those who deny this may argue that language merely reflects existing social conditions, and that we cannot influence its development, by any direct tinkering with words or constructions.\"\n\nThe grammar of Newspeak has two characteristics: (i) the virtual interchangeability of linguistic function (noun, verb, adverb, adjective, etc.) among the parts of speech; (ii) the inflectional regularity in the construction and usages of words. In all verbs, the preterite and the past participle constructions are alike, ending in \"–ed\"; hence, the preterite of \"steal\" is \"stealed\" and that of \"think\" is \"thinked\".\n\nBecause Newspeak has no antonyms, the prefix \"Un-\" is used for negation; thus, the Standard-English word \"warm\" becomes \"uncold\" in Newspeak. Moreover, the intellectual concept communicated with the word \"bad\" is expressed as \"ungood\". When the prefix is appended to a verb, \"un-\" communicates a negative imperative mood, thus, the Newspeak \"unproceed\" means \"do not proceed\" in Standard English.\n\n\n\nThe political purpose of Newspeak is to eliminate ambiguity and nuance (shades of meaning) from the language, and so reduce the language to simple concepts—pleasure and pain, happiness and sadness, \"goodthink\" and \"crimethink\"—that reinforce the totalitarian dominance of the State. In Newspeak, root words function as nouns and verbs, which further reduced the total number of words available to the speaker; for example, \"think\" is both noun and verb, thus, the word \"thought\" is not required to communicate thought, and can be abolished from the language. The Party also intend that Newspeak be spoken in staccato rhythm with syllables that are easy to pronounce, which shall facilitate automatic and unconscious speech, thereby diminishing the likelihood of critical thought.\n\nWords with comparative and superlative meanings were simplified; thus, \"better\" becomes \"plusgood\" and \"best\" becomes \"doubleplusgood\".\n\nAdjectives are formed by adding the suffix \"–ful\" to a root-word, e.g. \"goodthinkful\" means \"Orthodox in thought.\"; adverbs are formed by adding the suffix \"–wise\", e.g. \"goodthinkwise\" means \"In an orthodox manner.\"\n\n\"The purpose of Newspeak was not only to provide a medium of expression for the world-view and mental habits proper to the devotees of Ingsoc, but to make all other modes of thought impossible. Its vocabulary was so constructed as to give exact and often very subtle expression to every meaning that a Party member could properly wish to express, while excluding all other meaning and also the possibility of arriving at them by indirect methods. This was done partly by the invention of new words, but chiefly by eliminating undesirable words and stripping such words as remained of unorthodox meanings, and so far as possible of all secondary meaning whatever.\"\n\nThe Oldspeak word \"free\" existed in Newspeak, but could only be used in terms of something not present, as in the sentences \"The dog is free from lice.\" and \"This field is free from weeds.\" Politically, the word \"free\" could not denote free will, because such a humanist concept does not exist in the society of Oceania. The linguistic design of Newspeak is for thought control, by diminishment of the user's range of thought, which is realised with a minimal vocabulary of limited denotation and connotation; hence words such as: \"crimethink\" (thought crime), \"doublethink\" (accepting contradictory beliefs), and \"Ingsoc\" (English Socialism).\n\nThe character Syme discusses his work on the latest edition of the \"Newspeak Dictionary\": \"By 2050—earlier, probably—all real knowledge of Oldspeak will have disappeared. The whole literature of the past will have been destroyed. Chaucer, Shakespeare, Milton, Byron—they'll exist only in Newspeak versions, not merely changed into something different, but actually contradictory of what they used to be. Even the literature of The Party will change. Even the slogans will change. How could you have a slogan like \"Freedom is Slavery\" when the concept of freedom has been abolished? The whole climate of thought will be different. In fact there will \"be\" no thought, as we understand it now. Orthodoxy means not thinking—not needing to think. Orthodoxy is unconsciousness.\"\n\nAs a controlled language, Newspeak influences and limits thought by decreasing the range of expressiveness of the English language, wherein words serve as nouns and as verbs; thus, the word \"crimethink\" denotes \"a thoughtcrime\" (noun) and the action \"to commit thoughtcrime\" (verb). The adjective is formed with the suffix \"–ful\" (\"crimethinkful\") and the adverb is formed with the suffix \"–wise\" (\"crimethinkwise\").\n\nThe few irregular-form words, such as \"Minitrue\" (Ministry of Truth), \"Minipax\" (Ministry of Peace), \"Miniplenty\" (Ministry of Plenty), and \"Miniluv\" (Ministry of Love) identify the government ministries of the Party. The superlative forms of words are formed with the addition of the positive prefix \"plus–\" (\"plusgood\") and with the negative prefix \"un–\" (ungood). To communicate a greater degree, either of negativity or of positivity, requires affixing the prefix \"double\" to the other two prefixes to the root word \"good\" (\"doubleplusungood\"), as in the phrases \"Big Brother is doubleplusgood\" and \"Emmanuel Goldstein is doubleplusungood\".\n\nThe words of the A vocabulary describe the functional concepts of everyday-life activities (eating and drinking, working and cooking, etc.), and is composed of words from Oldspeak (Standard English).\n\nThe words of the B vocabulary are deliberately constructed to convey complicated ideas; compound words (noun-verb) of political implication meant to impose upon and instill in the user the politically correct mental attitude required by the Party, e.g. the Newspeak word \"goodthink\" connotes \"political orthodoxy\", and inflected according to the grammar of Oldspeak.\n\nThe words of the C vocabulary are technical terms that supplement the linguistic functions of the A and B vocabularies. Distributions of various fields within the overall C vocabulary are implemented on a need-to-know basis, because the Party does not want the citizens of Oceania to know more than one technique of life and production. Hence, there is no Newspeak word for \"science\"; instead, there are specific words for different fields.\n\nThe word bellyfeel refers to a blind, enthusiastic acceptance of an idea.\n\n\"Consider, for example, such a typical sentence from a \"Times\" leading article as \"Oldthinkers unbellyfeel Ingsoc\". The shortest rendering one could make of this in Oldspeak would be: 'Those whose ideas were formed before the Revolution cannot have a full emotional understanding of the principles of English Socialism.' But this is not an adequate translation. [...] [O]nly a person thoroughly grounded in Ingsoc could appreciate the full force of the word \"bellyfeel\", which implied a blind, enthusiastic and casual acceptance difficult to imagine today.\"\n— Orwell's 1984 appendix\n\nThe word \"blackwhite\" denotes the Newspeak user's ability to believe that black is white, to know that black is white, and to forget that one has ever believed the contrary. Yet it has two contradictory connotations: (i) Applied to an opponent of Ingsoc (\"Impudently claiming that black is white, in contradiction of the plain facts\") and (ii) applied to a member of the Party (\"A loyal willingness to say that black is white when Party discipline demands\"). Moreover, as Newspeak, the word blackwhite also is an example of the Party's doublethink, which re-writes the past.\n\nCrimethink is the Newspeak word for thoughtcrime (thoughts that are unorthodox or outside the official government platform), as well as the verb meaning \"to commit thoughtcrime\". Goodthink, which is approved by the Party, is the opposite of crimethink. Winston Smith, the main character, writes in his diary, \"Thoughtcrime does not entail death: thoughtcrime IS death.\"\n\nDuckspeak is a Newspeak term that means \"to quack like a duck\" (literal meaning) or \"to speak without thinking\". Duckspeak can be good or \"ungood\" (bad) depending on who is speaking, and whether what they are saying aligns with Big Brother's ideals. To speak rubbish and lies may be \"ungood\", but to do so for the benefit of The Party may be good. Orwell explains in the appendix: \"Ultimately it was hoped to make articulate speech issue from the larynx without involving the higher brain centres at all. This aim was frankly admitted in the Newspeak word duckspeak […]. Like various words in the B vocabulary, duckspeak was ambivalent in meaning. Provided that the opinions which were quacked out were orthodox ones, it implied nothing but praise, and when the Times referred to one of the orators of the Party as a doubleplusgood duckspeaker it was paying a warm and valued compliment.\"\n\nAn example of duckspeak in action is provided in chapter 9, when an Inner Party speaker is haranguing the crowd about the crimes of Eurasia when a note is passed into his hand. He never stops speaking or changes his inflection, but (according to the changed Party position) he now condemns the crimes of Eastasia, which is Oceania's new enemy.\n\nThe term \"goodsex\" describes the forms of sexual intercourse that the Party deem morally acceptable behaviour for the rank-and-file members of the Party. Specifically, \"goodsex\" denotes only heterosexual relations exclusively for procreation; and no pleasure (sexual or emotional) for the woman. All other forms of sexual relations are classified as \"sexcrime\" (sexual immorality).\n\nOwnlife refers to the tendency to enjoy being solitary or individualistic, which is considered subversive. Winston Smith comments that even to go for a walk by oneself can be regarded as suspicious.\n\nAn unperson is someone who has been \"vapourized\"—not only killed by the state, but erased from existence. Such a person would be written out of existing books, photographs and articles so that no trace of their existence could be found in the historical record. The idea is that such a person would, according to the principles of doublethink, be forgotten completely (for it would be impossible to provide evidence of their existence), even by close friends and family.\n\nMentioning an unperson's name, or even speaking of their past existence, is itself thoughtcrime; the concept that the person may have existed at one time and has disappeared cannot be expressed in Newspeak.\n\n\nTotalitarian regimes:\n\nFiction:\n\n"}
{"id": "9323628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9323628", "title": "Order of Nine Angles", "text": "Order of Nine Angles\n\nThe Order of Nine Angles (ONA; O9A) is a Satanic and Left-Hand Path occult group based in the United Kingdom, but with affiliated groups in various other parts of the world. Claiming to have been established in the 1960s, it rose to public recognition in the early 1980s, attracting attention for its neo-Nazi ideologies and activism. Describing its approach as \"Traditional Satanism\", it has been identified by academic researchers as also exhibiting Hermetic and Neo-Pagan elements in its beliefs. It has been described as one of the most extreme and dangerous Satanist groups in the world.\nAccording to the Order's own account, it was established in the Welsh Marches of Western England during the late 1960s by a woman who had previously been involved in a secretive pre-Christian tradition surviving in the region. This account also states that in 1973 a man named \"Anton Long\" was initiated into the group, subsequently becoming its Grand Master. Several academic commentators to have studied the ONA express the view that the name \"Anton Long\" is probably the pseudonym of the British neo-Nazi activist David Myatt, although Myatt has denied that this is the case. From the late 1970s onward, Long authored a number of books and articles propagating the Order's ideas, and in 1988 it began production of its own journal, \"Fenrir\". Through these ventures it established links with other neo-Nazi Satanist groups around the world, furthering its cause through embracing the Internet in the 2000s.\nThe ONA promotes the idea that human history can be divided into a series of Aeons, each of which contain a corresponding human civilization. It expresses the view that the current Aeonic civilization is that of the Western, but claims that the evolution of this society is threatened by the \"Magian/Nazarene\" influence of Judeo-Christian religion, which the Order seeks to combat in order to establish a militaristic new social order, termed the \"Imperium\". According to Order teachings, this is necessary in order for a Galactic civilization to form, in which \"Aryan\" society will colonise the Milky Way. It advocates a spiritual path in which the practitioner is required to break societal taboos by isolating themselves from society, committing crimes, embracing political extremism and violence, and carrying out an act of human sacrifice. ONA members practice magick, believing that they are able to do so through channeling energies into our own \"causal\" realm from an \"acausal\" realm where the laws of physics do not apply, with such magical actions designed to aid in the ultimate establishment of the Imperium.\nThe ONA lacks any central authority or structure, instead operating as a broad network of associates – termed the \"kollective\" – who are inspired by the texts originally authored by Long and other members of the \"Inner ONA\". The group comprises largely of clandestine cells, termed \"nexions\", as well as gangs known as Dreccs, artists known as Balobians, and folk mystics known as Rounwytha. With the first nexion based in Shropshire, Western England, the majority of groups have been established in the British Isles and Germany, although others have been formed elsewhere in Europe, Russia, South Africa, Australia, and North America. Academic estimates suggest that the number of individuals broadly associated with the Order falls in the low thousands.\n\nAcademics have found it difficult to ascertain \"exact and verifiable information\" about the ONA's origins given the secrecy with which the group shields itself. As with many other occult organisations, the Order shrouds its history in \"mystery and legend\", creating a \"mythical narrative\" for its origins and development. The ONA claims to be the descendant of pre-Christian pagan traditions which survived the Christianisation of Britain and which were passed down from the Middle Ages onward in small groups or \"temples\" based in the Welsh Marches – a border area between England and Wales – which were each led by a Grand Master or Grand Mistress. According to the Order, in the late 1960s a Grand Mistress of one such group united three of these temples – Camlad, the Temple of the Sun, and The Noctulians – to form the ONA, before welcoming outsiders into the tradition.\n\nAccording to the Order's account, one of those whom the Grand Mistress initiated into the group was \"Anton Long\", an individual who described himself as a British citizen who had spent much of his youth visiting Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. Long claimed that prior to his involvement in the ONA he had been interested in occultism for several years, having contacted a coven based in Fenland in 1968, before moving to London and joining groups that practiced ceremonial magic in the style of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn and Aleister Crowley. He also claimed a brief involvement in a Satanic group based in Manchester, the Orthodox Temple of the Prince run by Ray Bogart, during which time he encountered the ONA Grand Mistress. According to the Order's account, Long joined the ONA in 1973 – the first to have done so in five years – and became the Grand Mistress' heir. He later recalled that at that time the group held rituals at henges and stone circles around the solstices and equinoxes.\n\nThis account further states that when the Order's Grand Mistress migrated to Australia, Long took over as the group's new Grand Master. The group claimed that Long \"implemented the next stage of Sinister Strategy – to make the teachings known on a large scale\". From the late 1970s onward, Long encouraged the establishment of new ONA groups, which were known as \"temples\", and from 1976 onward he authored an array of texts for the tradition, codifying and extending its teachings, mythos, and structure. These texts are typically written in English, although they include passages of Classical Greek as well as terms from Sanskrit and Arabic, reflecting Long's fluency in such languages. After examining these texts, the historian Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke stated that in them, Long \"evokes a world of witches, outlaw peasant sorcerers, orgies and blood sacrifices at lonely cottages in the woods and valleys of this area [Shropshire and Herefordshire] where he has lived since the early 1980s\".\n\nThe real identity of \"Anton Long\" remains a mystery to both members of the Order and to academics who have studied it. However, in a 1998 issue of the anti-fascist magazine \"Searchlight\", it was claimed that \"Anton Long\" was a pseudonym of David Myatt, a prominent figure in the British neo-Nazi movement. Born in the early 1950s, Myatt had been involved in various neo-Nazi groups, initially serving as a bodyguard for Colin Jordan of the British Movement before joining the Combat 18 militia and becoming a founding member and leader of the National Socialist Movement. His text on \"A Practical Guide to Aryan Revolution\", in which he advocated violent militancy in aid of the neo-Nazi cause, was cited as an influence on the nail bomber David Copeland. In 1998 Myatt converted to Islam and remained a practicing Muslim for eight years, in which time he encouraged violent jihad against Zionism and Israel's Western allies. In 2010, he announced that he had renounced Islam and was practicing an esoteric tradition that he termed the \"Numinous Way\".\n\nGoodrick-Clarke supported the idea that Myatt was Long, with the religious studies scholar Jacob C. Senholt adding that \"the role of David Myatt [is] paramount to the whole creation and existence of the ONA\". Senholt presented additional evidence that he believed confirmed Myatt's identity as Long, writing that Myatt's embrace of neo-Nazism and radical Islamism represented \"insight roles\" which Myatt had adopted as part of the ONA's \"sinister strategy\" to undermine Western society, a view endorsed by scholar of Satanism Per Faxneld. In 2015, an ONA member known as R. Parker argued in favour of the idea that Myatt was Long. As a result of Page's publication, the sociologist of religion Massimo Introvigne stated that the ONA has \"more or less acknowledged\" that Myatt and Long are the same person, which claim about Myatt the ONA has disputed. \n\nMyatt himself has repeatedly denied allegations that he has any involvement with the ONA, and that he has used the pseudonym \"Anton Long\", furthermore challenging the arguments used to connect him with Long by claiming that they are based on insufficient evidence. Religious studies scholar George Sieg expressed concern with this association, stating that he found it to be \"implausible and untenable based on the extent of variance in writing style, personality, and tone\" between Myatt and Long. Jeffrey Kaplan, an academic specialist in the far right, has also suggested that Myatt and Long are separate people, while the religious studies scholar Connell R. Monette posited the possibility that \"Anton Long\" was not a singular individual but rather a pseudonym used by several different people.\n\nThe ONA arose to public attention in the early 1980s. During the 1980s and 1990s it spread its message through articles in various magazines, such as Stephen Sennitt's \"Nox\", as well as through the publication of such volumes as \"The Black Book of Satan\", and \"Naos\". In 1988 it began publication of its own in-house journal, titled \"Fenrir\". Among written material that it has publicly issued have been philosophical tracts, ritual instruction, letters, poetry, and gothic fiction. Its core ritual text is titled the \"Black Book of Satan\". It has also issued its own music, painted tarot set known as the Sinister Tarot, and a three-dimensional board game known as the Star Game. The ONA established links with other neo-Nazi Satanist groups: its international distributor was New Zealander Kerry Bolton, the founder of the Black Order, who is described as an ONA adept in the group's published letter-correspondence, and it has access to a private library of occult and far right material owned by the Order of the Jarls of Bælder. According to Monette, the group now have associates, and groups, in the United States, Europe, Brazil, Egypt, Australia, and Russia. One of these associate groups is the U.S.-based Tempel ov Blood, which has published a number of texts through Ixaxaar Press, while another is the California-based White Star Acception, which has been designated as the ONA's \"Flagship Nexion\" in the United States despite diverting from mainstream ONA teachings on a number of issues.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, the Order stated that it was entering the second stage of its development, in which it would leave behind its prior focus on recruitment and public outreach within the occult community and that it would instead focus on refining its teachings; its resulting quietness led some occultists to erroneously speculate that the ONA had become defunct.\nIn 2000, the ONA established a presence on the Internet, using it as a medium to communicate with others and to distribute its writings. \nIn 2008, the ONA announced that it was entering the third phase in its history, in which it would once again focus heavily on promotion, utilising such social media as online blogs, forums, Facebook, and YouTube to spread its message. In 2011, the \"Old Guard\", a group of longstanding members of the Order, stated that they would withdraw from active, public work with the group. In March 2012, Long announced that he would be withdrawing from public activity, although appears to have remained active in the Order.\n\nThe ONA describes its beliefs as belonging to \"a sinisterly-numinous mystic tradition\", adding that \"it is not now and never was either strictly satanist or strictly Left Hand Path, but uses \"satanism\" and the LHP as \"causal forms\"; that is, as techniques/experiences/ordeals/challenges\" to aid the practitioner's spiritual advancement. Monette described the ONA as \"a fascinating blend of both Hermeticism and Traditional Satanism, with some pagan elements\".\nFaxneld described the ONA as \"a dangerous and extreme form of Satanism\" and as \"one of the most extreme Satanist groups in the world.\" Jeffrey Kaplan and Leonard Weinberg characterised it as a \"National Socialist-oriented Satanist group\", while Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke similarly deemed it to be a \"Satanic Nazi cult\" which \"combine[d] paganism with praise for Hitler\". He added that the ONA \"celebrated the dark, destructive side of life through anti-Christian, elitist and Social Darwinist doctrines.\" Considering the manner in which the ONA had syncretized both Satanism and Heathenry, the historian of religion Mattias Gardell described its spiritual perspective as \"a heathen satanic path\". The scholar George Sieg however argued that the ONA should be categorised as \"post-Satanic\" because it has \"surpassed (without fully abandoning) identification with its original satanic paradigm\".\n\nThe ONA describe their occultism both as \"Traditional Satanism\", and as a \"mystical sinisterly-numinous tradition\".\nAccording to Jesper Aagaard Petersen, an academic specialist of Satanism, the Order present \"a recognizable new interpretation of Satanism and the Left Hand Path\", and for those involved in the group, Satanism is not simply a religion but a way of life.\nThe Order postulates Satanism as an arduous individual achievement of self-mastery and Nietzschean self-overcoming, with an emphasis on individual growth through practical acts of risk, prowess and endurance. Therefore, \"[t]he goal of the Satanism of the ONA is to create a new individual through direct experience, practice and self-development [with] the grades of the ONA system being highly individual, based on the initiates' own practical and real-life acts, instead of merely performing certain ceremonial rituals\". Thus Satanism, the ONA assert, requires venturing into the realm of the forbidden and illegal in order to shake the practitioner loose of cultural and political conditioning. Intentionally transgressive, the Order has been characterised as providing \"an aggressive and elitist spirituality\". Religious studies scholar Graham Harvey claimed that the ONA fit the stereotype of the Satanist \"better than other groups\", something which he thought was deliberately achieved by embracing \"deeply shocking\" and illegal acts.\n\nThe ONA are strongly critical of larger Satanic groups like the Church of Satan and the Temple of Set, whom they deem to be \"sham-Satanic\" because they embrace the \"glamour associated with Satanism\" but are \"afraid to experience its realness within and external to them\". In turn, the Church of Satan has criticised what they alleged was the Order's \"paranoic insistence that they are the only upholders of Satanic tradition\", with Kaplan stating that these comments reflect \"the intramural tensions\" that are common within \"the world of Satanism\", and about which criticism Anton Long wrote that the ONA does not \"claim to be a peer organization with a claim to some kind of authority ... When in the past we and others like us have said things that others interpret as being against the [Temple of Set] or La Vey, we were simply assuming the role of Adversary – challenging what seemed to be becoming accepted dogma.\"\n\nAlthough conceiving of itself as having pre-Christian origins and describing Satanism as \"militant paganism\", the ONA does not advocate the re-establishment of pre-Christian belief systems, with one ONA tract stating that \"all past gods of the various Western Traditions are rendered obsolete by the forces which Satanism alone is unleashing\". However, Goodrick-Clarke noted that the group's \"ideas and rituals\" draw upon \"a native tradition\", with references to the pre-Christian Anglo-Saxon concept of \"wyrd\", an emphasis on ceremonies performed at equinoxes, and the construction of incense using indigenous trees, thus suggesting the idea of \"rootedness in English nature\". Practitioners undergo \"black pilgrimages\" to prehistoric ceremonial sites in the area around Shropshire and Herefordshire in the English Midlands.\nFurthermore, Monette writes that \"a critical examination of the ONA's key texts suggests that the satanic overtones could be cosmetic, and that its core mythos and cosmology are genuinely hermetic, with pagan influences.\"\n\nThe ONA states that cosmic evolution is guided by a \"sinister dialectics\" of alternating Aeonic energies. It divides history into a series of Aeons, believing that each was dominated by a human civilization that emerged, evolved, and then died. It states that each Aeon lasts for approximately 2000 years, with its respective dominating human civilization developing within the latter 1500 years of that period. It holds that after 800 years of growth, each civilization faces problems, resulting in a \"Time of Troubles\" that lasts from between 398 and 400 years. In each civilization's final stage is a period that lasts for approximately 390 years, in which it is controlled by a strong military and imperial regime, after which the civilization falls. The ONA claims that humanity has lived through five such Aeons, each with an associated civilization: the Primal, Hyperborean, Sumerian, Hellenic, and Western. Both Goodrick-Clarke and Senholt have stated that this system of Aeons is inspired by the work of Arnold J. Toynbee, with Senholt suggesting that it might also have been influenced by Crowley's ideas regarding Thelemic Aeons. However, the ONA has stated that their concept \"has nothing to do with Crowley\", but is based on the work of both Toynbee and Spengler.\n\nThe ONA claim that current Western civilization has a Faustian ethos and that it has recently undergone its Time of Troubles, with its final stage, an \"Imperium\" of militaristic governance, due to commence at some point in 1990–2011 and last until 2390. This will be followed by a period of chaos from which will be established a sixth Aeon, the Aeon of Fire, which will be represented by the Galactic civilization in which an Aryan society shall colonize the Milky Way galaxy. However, the Order holds that unlike previous Aeonic civilizations, the Western has been infected with the \"Magian/Nazarene\" distorion, which they associate with Judeo-Christian religion. The group's writings state that while Western civilization had once been \"a pioneering entity, imbued with elitist values and exalting the way of the warrior\", under the impact of the Magian/Nazarene ethos it has become \"essentially neurotic, inward-looking and obsessed\", embracing humanism, capitalism, communism, as well as \"the sham of democracy\" and \"the dogma of racial equality\". They believe that these Magian/Nazarene forces represent a counter-evolutionary trend which threaten to prevent the emergence of the Western Imperium and thus the evolution of humanity, opining that this cosmic enemy must be overcome through the force of will. Both Goodrick-Clarke and Sieg note that these ideas regarding the \"Magian soul\" and \"cultural distortion\" brought about by Jews were derived from the work of Oswald Spengler and Francis Parker Yockey.\n\nThe ONA praise Nazi Germany as \"a practical expression of Satanic spirit ... a burst of Luciferian light – of zest and power – in an otherwise Nazarene, pacified, and boring world.\" Embracing Holocaust denial, they claim that the Holocaust was a myth constructed by the Magian/Nazarene establishment in order to denigrate the Nazi administration following the Second World War and erase its achievements from \"the psyche of the West\". The group believe that a neo-Nazi revolution is necessary to overthrow the Magian-Nazarene domination of Western society and to establish the Imperium, ultimately allowing humanity to enter the Galactic civilization of the future. \nAccordingly, positive references to Nazism and neo-Nazism can be found within the group's written material, and it evokes the Nazi leader Adolf Hitler as a positive force in its text for the performance of a Black Mass, also known as The Mass of Heresy. However, some ONA texts stress that members should embrace neo-Nazism and racism not out of a genuine belief in Nazi ideology, but rather as part of a \"sinister strategy\" to advance Aeonic evolution. A version of the Black Mass-produced by an Australian ONA group, The Temple of THEM, replaces praise for Hitler with praise for Islamist militant Osama bin Laden, while the writings of Chloe Ortega and Kayla DiGiovanni, key publicists for the U.S.-based White Star Acception, express what Sieg termed a \"left-anarchist\" platform which lacked the condemnation of Zionism and endorsement of Aryan racialism found in Long's writings. The Order is thus far more overtly political extreme in its aims than other Satanic and Left Hand Path organisations, seeking to infiltrate and destabilise modern society through both magical and practical means.\n\nThe ONA's core system is known as the \"Seven Fold Way\" or \"Hebdomadry\", and is outlined in one of the Order's primary texts, \"Naos\". The sevenfold system is reflected in the group's symbolic cosmology, the \"Tree of Wyrd\", on which seven celestial bodies – the Moon, Venus, Mercury, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn – are located. The term \"wyrd\" was adopted from Old English, where it referred to fate or destiny. Monette identified this as a \"hermetic system\", highlighting that the use of seven planetary bodies had been influenced by the Medieval Arabic texts \"Ghāyat al-Ḥakīm\" and \"Shams I-Maarif\".\nThe Seven Fold Way is also reflected in the group's initiatory system, which has seven grades through which the member can gradually progress. These are: (1) Neophyte, (2) Initiate, (3) External Adept, (4) Internal Adept, (5) Master/Mistress, (6) Grand Master/Mousa and (7) Immortal. The group has revealed that very few of its members raise to the fifth and sixth degrees, and in a 1989 article the ONA stated that at that point there were only four individuals who had reached the stage of Master.\n\nThe ONA does not initiate members into the group itself, but rather expects an individual to initiate themselves. It requires that initiates be in a good physical condition, and recommends a training regimen for prospective members to follow. Newcomers are expected to take on a magical partner of the opposite sex, or of the same sex if they are lesbian or gay. Thenceforth, the practitioner must undertake personal and increasingly difficult challenges in order to move through the different grades. Most of the ordeals that allow the initiate to proceed to the next stage are publicly revealed by the Order in its introductory material, as it is believed that the true initiatory element lies in the experience itself and can only be attained through performing them. For instance, part of the ritual to become an External Adept involves an ordeal in which the prospective member is to find a lonely spot and to lie there, still, for an entire night without moving or sleeping. The initiatory process for the role of Internal Adept entails the practitioner withdrawing from human society for three months, from an equinox to a solstice, or (more usually) for six months, during which time they must live in the wild without modern conveniences or contact with civilisation. The next stage – the Ritual of the Abyss – involves the candidate living alone in a dark isolated cavern for a lunar month. According to Jeffrey Kaplan, an academic specialist of the far right, these physically and mentally challenging initiatory tasks reflect \"the ONA's conception of itself as a vanguard organization composed of a tiny coterie of Nietzschean elites.\"\n\nWithin the initiatory system of the ONA, there is an emphasis on practitioners adopting \"insight roles\" in which they work undercover among a politically extreme group for a period of six to eighteen months, thus gaining experience in something different from their normal life. Among the ideological trends that the ONA suggests its members adopt \"insight roles\" within are anarchism, neo-Nazism, and Islamism, stating that aside from the personal benefits of such an involvement, membership of these groups has the benefit of undermining the Magian-Nazarene socio-political system of the West and thus helping to bring about the instability from which a new order, the Imperium, can emerge. However, Monette noted a potential shift in the insight roles recommended by the group over the decades; he highlighted that while the ONA recommended criminal or military activities during the 1980s and early 1990s, by the late 1990s and 2000s they were instead recommending Buddhist monasticism as an insight role for practitioners to adopt.\nTherefore, \"through the practice of \"insight roles\", the order advocates continuous transgression of established norms, roles, and comfort zones in the development of the initiate ... This extreme application of ideas further amplifies the ambiguity of satanic and Left Hand Path practices of antinomianism, making it almost impossible to penetrate the layers of subversion, play and counter-dichotomy inherent in the sinister dialectics.\" Senholt suggested that Myatt's involvement with both neo-Nazism and Islamism represent such \"insight roles\" in his own life.\n\nThe ONA believe that humans live within the \"causal\" realm, which obeys the laws of cause and effect. However, they also believe in an \"acausal\" realm, in which the laws of physics do not apply, further promoting the idea that numinous energies from the acausal realm can be drawn into the causal, allowing for the performance of magic. Believing in the existence of magic – which the group spell \"magick\" following the example of Elias Ashmole's 1652 work \"Theatrum Chemicum Britannicum\" – the ONA distinguish between external, internal, and aeonic magick. External magic itself is divided into two categories: ceremonial magick, which is performed by more than two people to achieve a specific goal, and hermetic magick, which is performed either solitarily or in a pair and which is often sexual in nature. Internal magick is designed to produce an altered state of consciousness in the participant, in order to result in a process of \"individuation\" which bestows adepthood. The most advanced form of magick in the ONA system is aeonic magick, the practice of which is restricted to those who are already perceived to have mastered external and internal magick and attained the grade of master. The purpose of aeonic magick is to influence large numbers of people over a lengthy period of time, thus affecting the development of future aeons. In particular it is employed with the intent of disrupting the current socio-political system of the Western world, which the ONA believe has been corrupted by Judeo-Christian religion.\n\nThe ONA utilises two methods in its performance of aeonic magick. The first entails rites and chants with the intent of opening a gateway – known as a \"nexion\" – to the \"acausal realm\" in order to manifest energies in the \"causal realm\" that will influence the existing aeon in the practitioner's desired direction. The second method involves playing an advanced form of a board game known as the Star Game; the game was devised by the group, with the game pieces representing different aeons. The group believes that when an initiate plays the game they can become a \"living nexion\" and thus a channel for acausal energies to enter the causal realm and effect aeonic change. An advanced form of the game is used as part of the training for the grade of Internal Adept. According to Myatt, he invented the game in 1975.\n\nThe Order promotes the idea that \"Dark Gods\" exist within the acausal realm, although it is accepted that some members will interpret them not as real entities but as facets of the human subconscious. These entities are perceived as dangerous, with the ONA advising caution when interacting with them. Among those Dark Gods whose identities have been discussed in the Order's publicly available material are a goddess named Baphomet who is depicted as a mature woman carrying a severed head, with the ONA stating that the name is of ancient Greek origin. In addition, there are entities whose names, according to Monette, are borrowed from or influenced by figures from Classical sources and astronomy, such as Kthunae, Nemicu, and Atazoth.\n\nAnother of these acausal figures is termed Vindex, after the Latin word for \"avenger\". The ONA believe that Vindex will eventually incarnate as a human – although the gender and ethnicity of this individual is unknown – through the successful \"presencing\" of acausal energies within the causal realm, and that they will act as a messianic figure by overthrowing the Magian forces and leading the ONA to prominence in the establishment of a new society. Sieg drew comparisons between this belief in Vindex and the ideas of Savitri Devi, the prominent Esoteric Hitlerist, regarding the arrival of Kalki, an avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu, to Earth. The ONA also propagate the idea that it is possible for the practitioner to secure an afterlife within the acausal realm through their spiritual activities. It is for this reason that the final stage of the Seven Fold Way is known as the \"Immortal\", constituting those initiates who have been able to advance to the stage of dwelling in the acausal realm.\n\nThe ONA's writings condone and encourage human sacrifice, referring to their victims as \"opfers\".\nThe ONA outline their views on human sacrifice in a number of documents: \"A Gift for the Prince – A Guide to Human Sacrifice\", \"Culling – A Guide to Sacrifice II\", \"Victims – A Sinister Exposé\", and \"Guidelines for the Testing of Opfers\". According to the ONA's beliefs, the killer must allow their victim to \"self-select\" themselves; this is achieved through testing the victim to see if they expose perceived character faults. If this proves to be the case, the victim is believed to have shown that they are worthy of death, and the sacrifice can commence. Those deemed ideal for sacrifice by the group include individuals perceived as being of low character, members of what they deem \"sham-Satanic groups\" like the Church of Satan and Temple of Set, as well as \"zealous, interfering Nazarenes\", and journalists, business figures and political activists who disrupt the group's operations. The ONA explains that because of the need for such \"self-selection\", children must never be victims of sacrifice. Similarly, the ONA \"despise animal sacrifice, maintaining that it is much better to sacrifice suitable mundanes given the abundance of human dross\".\n\nThe sacrifice is then carried out through either physical or magical means, at which point the killer is believed to absorb power from the body and spirit of the victim, thus entering a new level of \"sinister\" consciousness. As well as strengthening the character of the killer by heightening their connection with the acausal forces of death and destruction, such sacrifices are also viewed as having wider benefits by the ONA, because they remove from society individuals whom the group deems to be worthless human beings. Monette noted that no ONA nexion cells publicly admitted to carrying out a sacrifice in a ritual manner, but that members had joined the police and military groups in order to engage in legal violence and killing.\n\nThe ONA believe that there are historical precedents to their practice of human sacrifice, expressing belief in a prehistoric tradition in which humans were sacrificed to a goddess named Baphomet at the spring equinox and to the Arcturus star in the autumn. However, the ONA's advocacy of human sacrifice has drawn strong criticism from other Satanist groups like the Temple of Set, who deem it to be detrimental to their own attempts to make Satanism more socially acceptable within Western nations.\n\nIn its essays and other writings, the ONA offers various differing explanations as to the meaning of the term \"Nine Angles\". One explanation is that it pertains to the seven planets of the group's cosmology (the seven angles), added to the system as a whole (the eighth angle), and the mystic themselves (the ninth angle). A second explanation is that it refers to seven \"normal\" alchemical stages, with an additional two processes. A third is that it pertains to the nine emanations of the divine, a concept originally found in Medieval texts produced within the Islamic mystical tradition of Sufism. Monette further suggested that it was a reference to a classical Indian tradition which divided the solar system into nine planets.\n\nAccording to the O9A, they use the term \"nine angles\" in reference to not only the nine emanations, and transformations, of the three basic alchemical substances (mercury, sulfur, salt) as occurs in their occult use of the Star Game, but also in reference to their hermetic journey with its seven spheres and its two acausal aspects.\n\nThe ONA is a secretive organization. It lacks any central administration, instead operating as a network of allied Satanic practitioners, which it terms the \"kollective\". Thus, Monette stated that the Order \"is not a structured lodge or temple, but rather a movement, a subculture or perhaps metaculture that its adherents choose to embody or identify with\". Monette also suggested that this absence of a centralised structure would aid the Order's survival, because its fate would not be invested solely in one particular leader. The ONA dislikes the term \"member\", instead favouring the word \"associate\". In 2012, Long stated that those affiliated with the Order fell into six different categories: associates of traditional nexions, Niners, Balobians, gang and tribe members, followers of the Rounwytha tradition, and those involved with ONA-inspired groups.\n\nThe group largely consists of autonomous cells known as \"nexions\". The original cell, based in Shropshire, is known as \"Nexion Zero\", with the majority of subsequent groups having been established in Britain, Ireland, and Germany, however nexions and other associated groups have also been established in the United States, Australia, Brazil, Egypt, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Serbia, Russia and South Africa. Some of these groups, such as the U.S.-based Tempel ov Blood, describe themselves as being distinct from the ONA while both having been greatly influenced by it and having connections to it.\n\nIn the ONA's terminology, the terms Drecc and Niner refer to folk-based or gang-based culture or individuals who support the Order's aims by practical (including criminal) means rather than esoteric ones. One such group is the White Star Acception, who claim to have perpetrated rapes, assaults, and robberies in order to advance the group's power; Sieg noted that the reality of these actions has not been verified.\nA Balobian is an artist or musician who contributes to the group through their production of fine art. The Rounwytha is a tradition of folk-mystics deemed to exhibit gifted psychic powers reflecting their embodiment of the \"sinister feminine archetype\". Although a minority are men, most Rounwytha are female, and they often live reclusively as part of small and often lesbian groups.\n\nSeveral academic commentators have highlighted the existence of a position within the ONA called an \"Outer Representative\", who serves as an official spokesperson for the group to the outer world. The first to publicly claim to be the group's \"Outer Representative\" was Richard Moult, an artist and composer from Shropshire who used the pseudonym of \"Christos Beest\". Moult was followed as \"Outer Representative\" by \"Vilnius Thornian\", who held the position from 1996 to 2002, and who has been identified by ONA insiders as the Left Hand Path ideologue Michael Ford. Subsequently, on the blog of the White Star Acception, the claim was made that the group's member Chloe Ortega was the ONA's Outer Representative, also this blog later became defunct by 2013. In 2013, a female American Rounwytha using the name of \"Jall\" appeared claiming to be the Order's \"Outer Representative\".\n\nHowever, according to Long the \"outer representative\" was \"an interesting and instructive example of [the O9A's] Labyrinthos Mythologicus, ... a ploy,\" and which was designed to \"intrigue, select, test, confuse, annoy, mislead\". Long wrote that \"the ploy was for a candidate or an initiate to openly disseminate ONA material, and possibly give interviews about the O9A to the Media, under the guise of having been given some sort of 'authority' to do so even though such an authority – and the necessary hierarchy to gift such authority – was in fact a contradiction of our raison d'être; a fact we of course expected those incipiently of our kind to know or sense.\" According to Senholt the ONA \"does not award titles\", with Monette writing that \"there is no central authority within the ONA.\"\n\nWithin the ONA was a group of longstanding initiates known as the \"Old Guard\" or \"Inner ONA\", whose experience with the tradition led to them becoming influential over newer members who often sought their advice. Members of this Old Guard included Christos Beest, Sinister Moon, Dark Logos, and Pointy Hat, although in 2011 they stated that they would withdraw from the public sphere.\n\nWhile the ONA has stated that it is not an occult organization in the conventional sense but an esoteric philosophy, several academics have written about ONA membership. In a 1995 overview of British Satanist groups, Harvey suggested that the ONA consisted of less than ten members, \"and perhaps fewer than five.\" In 1998, Jeffrey Kaplan and Leonard Weinberg stated that the ONA's membership was \"infinitesmally small\", with the group acting primarily as a \"mail-order ministry\". Regarding the question of membership, Anton Long, in a letter to Aquino dated October 1990, wrote that \"once the techniques and the essence [of the ONA] are more widely available then membership as such is irrelevant, since everything is available and accessible ... with the individual taking responsibility for their own development, their own experiences.\"\n\nIn 2013 Senholt noted that because the group has no official membership, it is \"difficult, if not impossible, to estimate the number of ONA members\". Senholt suggested that a \"rough estimate\" of the \"total number\" of individuals involved with the ONA in some capacity from 1980 to 2009 was \"a few thousand\"; he had come to this conclusion from an examination of the number of magazines and journals about the subject circulated and the number of members of online discussion groups devoted to the ONA. At the same time he thought that the number of \"longtime adherents is much smaller.\" Also in 2013, Monette estimated that there were over two thousand ONA associates, broadly defined. He believed that the gender balance was roughly equal, although with regional variation and differences among particular nexions. Introvigne noted that if Monette's estimate was correct, it would mean that the ONA is \"easily... the largest Satanist organization in the world\".\n\nAccording to a recent survey, the ONA has more female supporters than either the Church of Satan or the Temple of Set; more women with children; more older supporters; more supporters who are better established in socio-economic terms; and more who politically are further to the Right.\n\nThe ONA's main influence lies not with the group itself, but with its prolific release of written material. According to Senholt, \"the ONA has produced more material on both the practical and theoretical aspects of magic, as well as more ideological texts on Satanism and the Left-Hand Path in general, than larger groups such as the Church of Satan and the Temple of Set has produced in combination [which] makes the ONA an important player in the theoretical discussion of what the Left-Hand Path and Satanism is and should be according to the practitioners\".\n\nThese writings were initially distributed to other Satanist and neo-Nazi groups, although with the development of the Internet this was also used as a medium to propagate its writings, with Monette expressing the view that they had attained \"a sizable presence in occult cyberspace\", and thus become \"one of the most prominent Left Hand Path groups by virtue of its public presence\". Many of these writings were then reproduced by other groups. Kaplan considered the ONA to be \"an important source of Satanic ideology/theology\" for \"the occultist fringe of National Socialism\", namely neo-Nazi groups like the Black Order. The group gained increased attention following the growth in public interest in Myatt's impact on terrorist groups during the War on Terror in the 2000s. The historian of esotericism Dave Evans stated that the ONA were \"worthy of an entire PhD thesis\", while Senholt expressed the view that it would be \"potentially dangerous to ignore these fanatics, however limited their numbers might be\".\n\nAccording to a report by the civil rights group the Southern Poverty Law Center the ONA \"holds an important position in the niche, international nexus of occult, esoteric, and/or satanic neo-Nazi groups.\"\n\nIn the \"Jack Nightingale\" series of novels by Stephen Leather, a Satanic \"Order of Nine Angles\" are the leading antagonists. Similarly, a fictionalised Satanic group named the \"Order of Nine Angels\" appear in Conrad Jones' 2013 novel \"Child for the Devil\". In another of his novels, \"Black Angel\", Jones included a page titled \"Additional Information\" giving a warning about the Order of Nine Angles.\n\nONA influence extends to some black metal bands such as Hvile I Kaos, who performed at the Blacklight District Lounge in Long Beach, California during May 2018 and who, according to a report in the music section of LA Weekly, \"attribute their purpose and themes to the philosophies of the Order of Nine Angles.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50428393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50428393", "title": "Pastiches et mélanges", "text": "Pastiches et mélanges\n\nPastiches et mélanges is a 1919 collection of writings by Marcel Proust.\n"}
{"id": "25839489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25839489", "title": "Penguin 60s", "text": "Penguin 60s\n\nTo celebrate its 60th anniversary circa 1995, Penguin Books released three boxed sets of \"Penguin 60s\".\n\nThe main set (, ) contained \"classic\" works. The set with orange spines ( / ) focused on 20th century or contemporary writers. A children's set () was also released, consisting of 30 volumes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24561", "title": "Plutocracy", "text": "Plutocracy\n\nA plutocracy (, ', 'wealth' + , ', 'rule') or plutarchy is a society that is ruled or controlled by people of great wealth or income. The first known use of the term in English dates from 1631. Unlike systems such as democracy, capitalism, socialism or anarchism, plutocracy is not rooted in an established political philosophy. The concept of plutocracy may be advocated by the wealthy classes of a society in an indirect or surreptitious fashion, though the term itself is almost always used in a pejorative sense.\n\nThe term \"plutocracy\" is generally used as a pejorative to describe or warn against an undesirable condition. Throughout history, political thinkers such as Winston Churchill, 19th-century French sociologist and historian Alexis de Tocqueville, 19th-century Spanish monarchist Juan Donoso Cortés and today Noam Chomsky have condemned plutocrats for ignoring their social responsibilities, using their power to serve their own purposes and thereby increasing poverty and nurturing class conflict, corrupting societies with greed and hedonism.\n\nHistoric examples of plutocracies include the Roman Empire, some city-states in Ancient Greece, the civilization of Carthage, the Italian city-states/merchant republics of Venice, Florence and Genoa, and the pre-World War II Empire of Japan (the \"zaibatsu\"). According to Noam Chomsky and Jimmy Carter, the modern day United States resembles a plutocracy, though with democratic forms. Former Chairman of the federal reserve, Paul Volcker, also believes the US is developing into a plutocracy.\n\nOne modern, formal example of a plutocracy, according to some critics, is the City of London. The City (also called the Square Mile of ancient London, corresponding to the modern financial district, an area of about 2.5 km) has a unique electoral system for its local administration, separate from London proper. More than two-thirds of voters are not residents, but rather representatives of businesses and other bodies that occupy premises in the City, with votes distributed according to their numbers of employees. The principal justification for this arrangement is that most of the services provided by the City of London Corporation are used by the businesses in the City. In fact about 450,000 non-residents constitute the city's day-time population, far outnumbering the City's 7,000 residents.\n\nSome modern historians, politicians, and economists argue that the United States was effectively plutocratic for at least part of the \"Gilded Age\" and \"Progressive Era\" periods between the end of the Civil War until the beginning of the Great Depression. President Theodore Roosevelt became known as the \"trust-buster\" for his aggressive use of United States antitrust law, through which he managed to break up such major combinations as the largest railroad and Standard Oil, the largest oil company. According to historian David Burton, \"When it came to domestic political concerns, TR's Bete Noire was the plutocracy.\" In his autobiographical account of taking on monopolistic corporations as president, TR recounted …we had come to the stage where for our people what was needed was a real democracy; and of all forms of tyranny the least attractive and the most vulgar is the tyranny of mere wealth, the tyranny of a plutocracy.\n\nThe Sherman Antitrust Act had been enacted in 1890, with large industries reaching monopolistic or near-monopolistic levels of market concentration and financial capital increasingly integrating corporations, a handful of very wealthy heads of large corporations began to exert increasing influence over industry, public opinion and politics after the Civil War. Money, according to contemporary progressive and journalist Walter Weyl, was \"the mortar of this edifice\", with ideological differences among politicians fading and the political realm becoming \"\"a mere branch\" in a still larger, integrated business. The state, which through the party formally sold favors to the large corporations, became one of their departments.\"\n\nIn his book \"The Conscience of a Liberal\", in a section entitled The Politics of Plutocracy, economist Paul Krugman says plutocracy took hold because of three factors: at that time, the poorest quarter of American residents (African-Americans and non-naturalized immigrants) were ineligible to vote, the wealthy funded the campaigns of politicians they preferred, and vote buying was \"feasible, easy and widespread\", as were other forms of electoral fraud such as ballot-box stuffing and intimidation of the other party's voters.\n\nThe U.S. instituted progressive taxation in 1913, but according to Shamus Khan, in the 1970s, elites used their increasing political power to lower their taxes, and today successfully employ what political scientist Jeffrey Winters calls \"the income defense industry\" to greatly reduce their taxes.\n\nIn 1998, Bob Herbert of \"The New York Times\" referred to modern American plutocrats as \"The Donor Class\" (list of top donors) and defined the class, for the first time, as \"a tiny group – just one-quarter of 1 percent of the population – and it is not representative of the rest of the nation. But its money buys plenty of access.\"\n\nIn modern times, the term is sometimes used pejoratively to refer to societies rooted in state-corporate capitalism or which prioritize the accumulation of wealth over other interests. According to Kevin Phillips, author and political strategist to Richard Nixon, the United States is a plutocracy in which there is a \"fusion of money and government.\"\n\nChrystia Freeland, author of \"Plutocrats: The Rise of the New Global Super-Rich and the Fall of Everyone Else\", says that the present trend towards plutocracy occurs because the rich feel that their interests are shared by society.\n\nWhen the Nobel-Prize winning economist Joseph Stiglitz wrote the 2011 \"Vanity Fair\" magazine article entitled \"Of the 1%, by the 1%, for the 1%\", the title and content supported Stiglitz's claim that the United States is increasingly ruled by the wealthiest 1%. Some researchers have said the US may be drifting towards a form of oligarchy, as individual citizens have less impact than economic elites and organized interest groups upon public policy. A study conducted by political scientists Martin Gilens (Princeton University) and Benjamin Page (Northwestern University), which was released in April 2014, stated that their \"analyses suggest that majorities of the American public actually have little influence over the policies our government adopts\". Gilens and Page do not characterize the U. S. as an \"oligarchy\" or \"plutocracy\" per se; however, they do apply the concept of \"civil oligarchy\" as used by Jeffrey A. Winters with respect to the US.\n\nA report by Credit Suisse in 2013 states that \"Russia has the highest level of wealth inequality in the world, apart from small Caribbean nations with resident billionaires.\" Worldwide, there is one billionaire for every USD 170 billion in household wealth; Russia has one for every USD 11 billion.\n\nYevgeny Chichvarkin\n\nYulia Latynina\n\nIn the political jargon and propaganda of Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany and the Communist International, western democratic states were referred to as \"plutocracies\", with the implication being that a small number of extremely wealthy individuals were controlling the countries and holding them to ransom. \"Plutocracy\" replaced \"democracy\" and \"capitalism\" as the principal fascist term for the United States and Great Britain during the Second World War. For the Nazis, the term was often a code word for \"the Jews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23288", "title": "Point-of-view shot", "text": "Point-of-view shot\n\nA point of view shot (also known as POV shot, first-person shot or a subjective camera) is a short film scene that shows what a character (the subject) is looking at (represented through the camera). It is usually established by being positioned between a shot of a character looking at something, and a shot showing the character's reaction (see shot reverse shot). The technique of POV is one of the foundations of film editing.\n\nA POV shot need not be the strict point-of-view of an actual single character in a film. Sometimes the point-of-view shot is taken over the shoulder of the character (third person), who remains visible on the screen. Sometimes a POV shot is \"shared\" (\"dual\" or \"triple\"), i.e. it represents the joint POV of two (or more) characters.\n\nPoint-of-view, or simply p.o.v., camera angles record the scene from a particular player's viewpoint. The point-of-view is an objective angle, but since it falls between the objective and subjective angle, it should be placed in a separate category and given special consideration. A point-of-view shot is as close as an objective shot can approach a subjective shot—and still remain objective. The camera is positioned at the side of a subjective player—whose viewpoint is being depicted—so that the audience is given the impression they are standing cheek-to-cheek with the off-screen player. The viewer does not see the event through the player's eyes, as in a subjective shot in which the camera trades places with the screen player. He sees the event from the player's viewpoint, as if standing alongside him. Thus, the camera angle remains objective, since it is an unseen observer not involved in the action.\" \n\nSupporting narrative elements are required to indicate the shot to the viewer as a POV shot. These may include shot sequencing, sound effects, visual effects and acting.\n\nWhen the leading actor is the subject of the POV it is known as the subjective viewpoint. The audience sees events through the leading actor's eyes, as if they were experiencing the events themselves. Some films are partially or totally shot using this technique, for example the 1947 film noir \"Lady in the Lake\", which is shot entirely through the subjective POV of its central character in an attempt to replicate the first-person narrative style of the Raymond Chandler novel upon which the film is based.\n\nPOV footage has existed since the first cameras were mounted in early airplanes and cars, anywhere a film’s creator intended to take viewers inside the action with the psychological purpose of giving viewers a feel of \"What he or she is going through\", he or she being a participant in the subject matter. Cameras were increasingly introduced into more difficult experiences.\n\nDick Barrymore, an early action filmmaker akin to Warren Miller, experimented with film cameras and counter weights mounted to a helmet. Barrymore could ski unencumbered while capturing footage of scenery and other skiers. Though the unit was heavy relative to its manner of use, it was considered hands-free, and worked.\n\nNumerous companies have developed successful POV designs, from laparoscopic video equipment used inside the body during medical procedures, to high tech film and digital cameras mounted to jets and employed during flight. On professional levels, the equipment is well defined, expensive, and requires intensive training and support.\n\nHowever the race for hands-free POV cameras for use on a consumer level has always faced problems. The technology has had issues with usability, combining lenses with microphones with batteries with recording units; all connected using spidery cables, which proved cumbersome in use when compared to the quality of the end content.\n\nIn making 1927's \"Napoléon\", director Abel Gance wrapped a camera and much of the lens in sponge padding so that it could be punched by other actors to portray the leading character's point of view during a fist fight, part of a larger snowball fight between schoolboys including young Napoleon. Gance wrote in the technical scenario that the camera \"defends itself as if it were Bonaparte himself. It is in the fortress and fights back. It clambers on the wall of snow and jumps down, as if it were human. A punch in the lens. Arms at the side of the camera as if the camera itself had arms. Camera K falls on the ground, struggles, gets up.\" In the scenario, \"Camera K\" refers to Gance's main photographer, Jules Kruger, who wore the camera mounted to a breastplate strapped to his chest for these shots.\n\nPOV shots were used extensively by Alfred Hitchock for various narrative effects.\n\nThe long running British sitcom \"Peep Show\", is filmed entirely in point of view shots.\n\n\"Enter the Void\" (2009) by Gaspar Noé is shot from the first-person viewpoint, although in an unusual way, since most of the movie involves an out-of-body experience.\n\nThe film \"Hardcore Henry\" (2015) consists almost entirely of POV shots, presenting events from the perspective of the title character, in the style of a first-person shooter video game. Deep Web Smooth Criminal\n\nNearly the entire film \"Maniac\", is shot from the murderer's point of view, with his face being shown only in reflections and occasionally in the third person.\n"}
{"id": "1830609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830609", "title": "Political ideas in science fiction", "text": "Political ideas in science fiction\n\nThe exploration of politics in science fiction is arguably older than the identification of the genre. One of the earliest works of modern science fiction, H. G. Wells’ \"The Time Machine\", is an extrapolation of the class structure of the United Kingdom of his time, an extreme form of Social Darwinism; during tens of thousands of years, human beings have evolved into two different species based on their social class.\n\nMost story and novel-length works of science fiction include speculation (directly or indirectly) on modes of life and behaviour. They are sometimes allegorical and often serious attempts to model possible future societies, political institutions and systems. Examples include Harry Harrison's novel \"Make Room! Make Room!\", \"The Dispossessed\" by Ursula K. Le Guin; and the \"Hostile Takeover\" Trilogy by S. Andrew Swann. \nImagined societies may be based on very different assumptions. Often the future is modeled on historic forms - feudalism, or in the case of The Foundation series, the Roman Empire. A common theme is the integration of humanity into some greater interstellar society. A popular modern example is the \"Uplift\" series by David Brin where a species' status is defined based on the concept of biologically uplifting other species.\n\nThe term Utopia was invented by Thomas More as the title of his Latin book \"De Optimo Reipublicae Statu deque Nova Insula Utopia\" (circa 1516), known more commonly as Utopia. He created the word \"utopia\" to suggest two Greek neologisms simultaneously: outopia (no place) and eutopia (good place). More depicts a rationally organised society, through the narration of an explorer who discovers it—Raphael Hythlodaeus. Utopia is a republic where all property is held in common. In addition, it has few laws, no lawyers and rarely sends its citizens to war, but hires mercenaries from among its war-prone neighbours.\n\nGenerally speaking, utopias are generally societies whose author believes either perfect, or as perfect as can be attainable. Ernest Callenbach's \"Ecotopia\" is a contemporary example. This can cause some confusion, in that some works generally recognized as “utopian”, such as Plato’s \"Republic\", can come across as much less than ideal to a modern reader. They are one of the smaller subsets of political science fiction, possibly because it is difficult to create dramatic tension in a world the author believes is perfect. Various authors get around this problem by postulating problems in the utopian society, such L. Neil Smith does. Other ways of presenting a utopian society in science fiction, is to send characters outside it to explore beyond its confines (ala \"Star Trek\"), or focus on an outsider character entering the society, as in Aldous Huxley’s \"Brave New World\". This last method is often used to show that the utopian society shown is actually a dystopia. Kim Stanley Robinson's approach in \"The Mars Trilogy\" involved exploring the creation of utopian and ecotopian societies on Mars.\n\nAnother option for a Utopian society can be found in robotocracy, or the rule of Robots or Computers, with the theory that a programmed machine can dispassionately provide for the welfare of all. Examples of this include various works of Isaac Asimov and the planet of Sigma Draconis VI in the Star Trek episode \"Spock's Brain\". If the machine rule becomes harsh or oppressive, it may become a dystopia instead.\n\nDystopias are societies where the author illustrates the worst that can happen. Usually this encompasses extrapolating trends the author sees as dangerous. During the 20th century many examples were written in reaction to the rise of Nazism, Communism and Religious Fundamentalism:\n\n\nIt is important to keep in mind that scenarios which some would describe as dystopic, others would describe as utopian. Norman Spinrad's novel\" The Iron Dream\" was generally recognised to be a dystopic novel, but lauded by neo-Nazis as a utopia.\n\nOften the political focus of a science fiction novel is less on the social order, but how people maneuver and achieve their agendas within a given system. Many space operas rely on vast interstellar bureaucracies to drive their plots \"(see: Galactic empire)\". George Lucas's famous \"Star Wars\" saga features political science modeled after historic events. The Retief stories by Keith Laumer and the Chanur books by C. J. Cherryh have politics and political maneuverings as some of the main themes, and Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" books offer advanced explorations of human politics, including the dovetailing economics. Often this focus can descend into conspiracy and paranoia where the premise is that there are secret forces out to get the protagonists, the seminal example of which is the \"Illuminatus! Trilogy\". Most commonly, science fiction deals with the political fallout of its own premises. A story will posit some new event or technology and explore its political dimensions; this includes most techno-thrillers but also encompasses a large body of traditional science fiction. An example is the Philip K. Dick story \"The Minority Report\" (upon which the film starring Tom Cruise is based), which introduces the idea of perfectly predicting a crime of violence so the perpetrator can be arrested before the crime is committed, and the political and legal ramifications of actually using such a system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21468429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21468429", "title": "Puppet", "text": "Puppet\n\nA puppet is an object, often resembling a human, animal or mythical figure, that is animated or manipulated by a person called a puppeteer. The puppeteer uses movements of their hands, arms, or control devices such as rods or strings to move the body, head, limbs, and in some cases the mouth and eyes of the puppet. The puppeteer often speaks in the voice of the character of the puppet, and then synchronizes the movements of the puppet's mouth with this spoken part. The actions, gestures and spoken parts acted out by the puppeteer with the puppet are typically used in storytelling. Puppetry is a very ancient form of theatre which dates back to the 5th century BC in Ancient Greece. There are many different varieties of puppets, and they are made from a wide range of materials, depending on their form and intended use. They range from very simple in construction and operation to very complex.\n\nTwo simple types of puppets are the finger puppet, which is a tiny puppet that fits onto a single finger, and the sock puppet, which is formed and operated by inserting one's hand inside a sock, with the opening and closing of the hand simulating the movement of the puppet's \"mouth.\" The sock puppet is a type of hand puppet, which is controlled using one hand that occupies the interior of the puppet and moves the puppet around. A \"live-hand puppet\" is similar to a hand puppet but is larger and requires two puppeteers for each puppet. A Marionette is a much more complicated type of puppet that is suspended and controlled by a number of strings connected to the head, back and limbs, plus sometimes a central rod attached to a control bar held from above by the puppeteer.\n\nA rod puppet is constructed around a central rod secured to the head. A shadow puppet is a cut-out figure held between a source of light and a translucent screen. Bunraku puppets are a type of Japanese wood-carved puppet. A ventriloquist's dummy is a human-shaped puppet operated by a ventriloquist performer's hand; the performer produces the puppets voice with little or no movement of her mouth, which creates the illusion that the puppet is alive. Carnival puppets are large puppets, typically bigger than a human, designed to be part of a large spectacle or parade.\n\nPuppetry was practiced in Ancient Greece and the oldest written records of puppetry can be found in the works of Herodotus and Xenophon, dating from the 5th century BC. The Greek word translated as \"puppet\" is \"νευρόσπαστος\" (\"nevrospastos\"), which literally means \"drawn by strings, string-pulling\", from \"νεῦρον\" (\"nevron\"), meaning either \"sinew, tendon, muscle, string\", or \"wire\", and \"σπάω\" (\"spaō\"), meaning \"draw, pull\".\n\nAristotle (384–322 BC) discusses puppets in his work \"On the Motion of Animals\".\n\nThe movements of animals may be compared with those of automatic puppets, which are set going on the occasion of a tiny movement; the levers are released, and strike the twisted strings against one another.<ref http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/motion_animals.html>Aristotle, On the Motion of Animals, 350 BC.</ref>\n\nIn India, puppetry was practiced from ancient times and is known by different names in different parts of the country. Excavation of clay dolls from Indus valley sites serve as an indication. The art of puppetry called Bommalattam is mentioned in Tamil literature Silappadikaram, which is written around 2nd century B.C.\n\nPuppetry by its nature is a flexible and inventive medium and many puppet companies work with combinations of puppet forms and incorporate real objects into their performances. They might, for example, incorporate performing objects such as torn paper for snow, or a sign board with words as narrative devices within a production. The following are, alphabetically, the basic and conventional forms of puppet:\n\nThe black light puppet is a form of puppetry where the puppets are operated on a stage lit only with ultraviolet lighting, which hides the puppeteer and accentuates the colours of the puppets, which are normally designed using colours that respond to UV light by glowing brightly. The puppeteers perform dressed in black against a black background, with the background and puppeteer's costume normally made of black velvet. The puppeteers manipulate the puppets under the light, while they position themselves unseen against the black unlit background. Puppets of many sizes and types may be used. The original concept of this form of puppetry can be traced to Bunraku puppetry.\n\nBunraku puppets are a type of wood-carved puppet originally made to stand out through torch illumination. Developed in Japan over a thousand years ago and formalised and combined with shamisen music at the end of the 16th century, the puppeteers dress to remain neutral against a black background, although their presence as a kind of 'shadow' figure adds a mysterious power to the puppet. Bunraku traditionally uses three puppeteers to operate a puppet that varies from 1/3 to 1/2 life size.\n\nCantastoria is a form of visual storytelling in which a puppet, illustration, painting, or other visual medium is accompanied by rhythmical speech or song that describes or reenacts events to tell a story.\n\nCarnival puppets (also known as body puppets) are usually designed to be part of a large spectacle. These are often used in parades (such as the Mayday parade in Minneapolis, United States and The Cape Town Carnival in South Africa) and demonstrations, and are at least the size of a human and often much larger. One or more performers are required to move the body and limbs. In parades, the appearance and personality of the person inside is not relevant to the spectator. These puppets are particularly associated with large-scale entertainment, such as the nightly parades at various Disney complexes around the world. Similar puppets were designed by Julie Taymor for \"The Lion King\".\n\nThe Jim Henson Company also has their version of these puppets called full-bodied puppets.\n\nThe finger puppet is a simple puppet variant which fits onto a single finger. Finger puppets normally have no moving parts, and consist primarily of a hollow cylinder shape to cover the finger. Finger puppets are often decorated with eyes and mouths made out of fabric or other materials. This form of puppet has limited application, and is used mainly in pre-schools or kindergartens for storytelling with young children.\n\nA hand puppet (or glove puppet) is a puppet controlled by one hand, which occupies the interior of the puppet. The Punch and Judy puppets are familiar examples of hand puppets. Larger varieties of hand puppets place the puppeteer's hand in just the puppet's head, controlling the mouth and head, and the puppet's body then hangs over the entire arm. Other parts of the puppet (mainly arms) are usually not much larger than the hand itself. Often the mouth can also open and close, and special variants exist with eyelids that can be manipulated. A sock puppet is a particularly simple type of hand puppet made from a sock.\nAlso called a \"two-man puppet\" or a \"live-hand puppet\", the human-arm puppet is similar to a hand puppet but is larger and requires two puppeteers. One puppeteer places their dominant hand inside the puppet's head and operates the puppet's head and mouth, while putting their non-dominant arm into a glove and special sleeve attached to the puppet. The second puppeteer puts their arm into a glove and special sleeve attached to the puppet in order to operate the other arm. This way, the puppet can perform hand gestures. This is a form of glove or hand puppetry and rod puppetry.\n\nLight curtain puppet presentations use light to highlight small portions of a performance area, allowing the puppet to be seen while the manipulators remain invisible. The puppets stand on a stage divided into an unlit background and a well-lit foreground, meeting to form a \"curtain\" of light. The puppeteer dresses in black and remains hidden in the unlit background of the stage while the puppet is held across the light curtain in the lit foreground of the stage. \"Light curtain puppet\" is an umbrella term, and any puppet which is extended into a well-lit area where its handler remains separated from the puppet by a division of light may be called a light curtain puppet.\n\nMarionettes, or \"string puppets,\" are suspended and controlled by a number of strings, plus sometimes a central rod attached to a control bar held from above by the puppeteer. The control bar can be either horizontal or vertical. Basic strings for operation are usually attached to the head, back, hands (to control the arms) and just above the knee (to control the legs). This form of puppetry is complex and sophisticated to operate, requiring greater manipulative control than a finger, glove or rod puppet. The puppet play performed by the Von Trapp children with Maria in \"The Sound of Music\" is a marionette show.\n\nProminent Marionette Theaters operating today include: Salzberg Marionette Theater, Bob Baker Marionette Theater, Center for Puppetry Arts, Melchior Marionette Theater, The Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater in Central Park, Le Theatre de Marionette.\nFamous Italian puppet is Romeo Gallo.\n\nThe marotte is a simplified rod puppet that is just a head and/or body on a stick. It was used by jesters in renaissance times. In a \"marotte à main prenante\", the puppeteer's other arm emerges from the body (which is just a cloth drape) to act as the puppet's arm. Some marottes have a small string running through the stick attached to a handle at the bottom. When the handle is squeezed, the mouth opens.\n\nMotekar or wayang motekar is a kind of shadow puppet theater known in Sundanese, Javanese, and Indonesian as 'wayang (kulit)', that is, (leather) shadow puppet. While most shadow puppets cast black silhouettes from behind a screen, motekar shadow puppets can be in full color. They use plastic materials, transparent dyes, a special light system, and a special type of screen to make this happen.\nMotekar puppet shows can be performed by one or several puppeteers and usually feature music, singing, and a series of dances.\n\nNot all forms of puppetry need specially created items to puppet. Object puppets can be created with found everyday objects either assembled in advance or during performance. Señor Wences was a Spanish ventriloquist who became popular through his appearances on the American program \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". His characters included Johnny (a face drawn on his hand) and Pedro (a gruff head in a box) who would talk when Wences opened the box. Similarly, chinface puppetry involves puppet features drawn or attached onto an upside-down chin.\n\nA pull string puppet is a puppet consisting of a cloth body where in the puppeteer puts his/her arm into a slot in the back and pulls rings on strings to make certain movements such as waving the arms or moving the mouth.\n\nA push puppet consists of a segmented character on a base which is kept under tension until the button on the bottom is pressed. The puppet wiggles, slumps and then collapses. Push puppets are usually intended as novelty toys, rather than as part of professional puppet theatre.\n\nA rod puppet is a puppet constructed around a central rod secured to the head. A large glove covers the rod and is attached to the neck of the puppet. A rod puppet is controlled by the puppeteer moving the metal rods attached to the hands of the puppet (or any other limbs) and by turning the central rod secured to the head.\n\nA shadow puppet is a cut-out figure held between a source of light and a translucent screen. Shadow puppets can form solid silhouettes or be decorated with various amounts of cut-out details. Colour can be introduced into the cut-out shapes to provide a different dimension and different effects can be achieved by moving the puppet (or light source) out of focus. Javanese shadow puppets known as Wayang Kulit are the classic example of this. In China, it became popular from Song Dynasty.\n\nA sock puppet is a puppet formed and operated by inserting a hand inside a sock. The hand is opened and closed to simulate the movement of the puppet's \"mouth\" and give the impression of speaking. Sometimes eyes and other facial features are added to the sock in order to make the puppet more realistic. Sock puppets are popular in many puppet performances, as they are simple to make and easy to use. They are mostly used in satirical or children's works.\n\nSupermarionation is a method of puppetry invented by Gerry Anderson, which he used in his television shows \"Stingray\" and \"Thunderbirds\". The puppets were marionettes with electronically moving mouths to allow for lip-synchronised speech. The marionettes were still controlled by human manipulators with darkened strings.\n\nA table top puppet is a puppet usually operated by rod or direct contact from behind, on a surface similar to a table top (hence the name). Shares many characteristics with Bunraku.\n\nA Ticklebug is a type of hand puppet created from a human hand to have four legs, where the puppet features are drawn on the hand itself. The middle finger is lifted as a head, and the thumb and forefinger serve as a first set of two legs on one side, while the ring finger and little finger serve as a second set of two legs on the opposite side.\n\nThe toy theatre is a puppet cut out of paper and stuck onto card. It is fixed at its base to a stick and operated by pushing it in from the side of the puppet theatre. Sheets of puppets and scenery were produced from the 19th century for children's use.\n\nThe Ventriloquist's Dummy is a puppet shaped like a small human which is operated by a ventriloquist performer to focus the audience's attention away from the performer's activities and heighten the illusion that the dummy is speaking. They are called dummies because they do not speak on their own. The ventriloquist dummy is controlled by one hand of the ventriloquist. Ventriloquism acts are not always performed with a traditional dummy; occasionally other forms of puppetry are used.\n\nA water puppet is a Vietnamese puppet form, the \"Múa rối nước\". Múa rối nước literally translates to \"dance underwater\" or \"dancing underwater\". This is an ancient tradition that dates back to the 10th century. The puppets are built out of wood and the shows are performed in a waist-deep pool. A large rod supports the puppet under the water and is used by the puppeteers to control them. The appearance is of the puppets moving over the water. When the rice fields would flood, the villagers would entertain each other using this puppet form.\n\nThe water also provides the setting for traditional stories depicting day-to-day village life. Water puppets bring wry humor to scenes of farming, fishing, festival events such as buffalo fights, and children's games of marbles and coin-toss. Fishing turns into a game of wits between the fisherman and his prey, with the fisherman getting the short end (often capturing his surprised neighbor by mistake). Besides village life, scenes include legends and national history. Lion dogs romp like puppies while dragons exhale fire and smoke and shoot sprays of water at the audience. Performances of up to 18 short scenes are usually introduced by a pig-tailed bumpkin known as Teu, and accompanied by a small folk orchestra.\n\nThe word \"puppet\" can mean a political leader installed, supported and controlled by powerful external forces, without legitimacy in the country itself. In modern times, this usually implies no democratic mandate from the country's electorate; in earlier times, it could have meant a monarch imposed from outside, who was not a member of a country's established ruling dynasty, or unrecognised by its nobility. \"Puppet government\", \"puppet regime\" and \"puppet state\" are derogatory terms for a government which is in charge of a region or country, but only through being installed, supported and controlled by a more powerful outside government. An example is Vidkun Quisling, a Norwegian fascist leader during World War Two who collaborated with the Nazis and led a puppet government.\n\nIn a more general sense, a puppet is any person who is controlled by another by reasons of (for instance) undue influence, intellectual deficiency, or lack of character or charisma. Science fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein's novel \"The Puppet Masters\" depicts alien parasites who attach themselves to human beings and control their actions.\n\nPoppet, a word that sounds similar, is sometimes a term of endearment, similar to \"love\", \"pet\", \"doll\" or \"dear\". It alludes to folk-magic and witchcraft, where a poppet is a special doll created to represent a person for the purpose of casting healing, fertility, or binding spells.\n\nSock Puppet is used on social media as a term to describe fake accounts used to spread political disinformation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47700434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47700434", "title": "RefME", "text": "RefME\n\nRefME was a free citation management tool available on web, iOS and Android. It offered a functionality that allowed users to scan book and journal barcodes with a mobile device and generate citations automatically. It was compatible with other citation management tools such as Mendeley, Zotero, RefWorks, and EndNote and enables exporting in over 7000 citation styles. In May 2015, the company released a Chrome plug-in to allow for direct clipping of web sources, which was followed in August 2015 by a similar iOS extension. RefME was shut down on March 7, 2017, after being acquired by the education company Chegg, Inc..\n\nRefME was founded 2014 by Tom Hatton, Ian Forshew, and Tom Gardiner It was based in London and had over a million registered users. In April 2015, it was announced that GEMS Education had invested $5 million (£2.7) in the company’s seed investment round.\n\nIn 2017, RefMe was acquired by Chegg, Inc. and RefMe user accounts were transferred over to CiteThisForMe, Chegg's own citation service.\n\nRefME was a free service that required registration to use. Registration could be performed by email, Facebook single sign on, or via Edmodo. It was available on Desktop (Windows, macOS and Linux) via the RefME.com web platform, iOS (for iPhones and iPads), Android and Google Chrome via the RefME WebClipper browser extension. \n\nRefME allowed sharing and collaborating on resources, adding information through both desktop and mobile devices with cloud synchronization between platforms. The tool also allowed for citations to be exported into other tools as well as batch-importing using.Ris files. \n\nThe mobile apps also offered a feature that allowed users to scan books with their smartphones and turn them automatically into citations.\n\nIn October 2014, RefME was selected as one of the nineteen fastest-growing startups to participate in the Great Enterprise Tech Expedition organised by the \nUK Trade and Investment (UKTI) to showcase UK technology in the US.\n\nRefME was named 2014 Startup of the Year by \"The Guardian\" and in March 2015 was voted Best British Mobile Startup at the Mobile World Congress (MWC) and also received the EdTech20 award in June 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "57070998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57070998", "title": "Selp-Helf", "text": "Selp-Helf\n\nSelp-Helf is a book by Colleen Ballinger and her brother Christopher Ballinger, released July 21, 2015 by Gallery Books, an imprint of Simon & Schuster. It is a parody of the self-help book genre. Simon & Schuster calls it a \"decidedly unhelpful, candid, hilarious 'how-to' guide\". The book is written in the voice of Colleen Ballinger's YouTube character Miranda Sings and presented in mock-scrapbook format, with silly advice, photos and comically bad artwork. \n\nThe book debuted at No. 1 on the \"Publishers Weekly\" Hardcover Non-Fiction best sellers list and \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list for Advice, How-To & Miscellaneous, and at No. 6 on \"USA Today's\" Best-Selling Books list. It remained on the \"Times\" Best Seller list for Advice & Misc. for 11 weeks and was on their monthly Best Seller list for \"Humor\" for eleven months.\n\nAndrea Beach of Common Sense Media gave the book a rating of three out of five stars, stating, in part, \"Fans of her Miranda Sings YouTube channel will love this colorfully absurd satire of the self-help industry. ...Older teens can be encouraged to think about how Colleen Ballinger ... uses satire, irony, and exaggeration and how those techniques affect the real message conveyed.\" The site goes on to state, \"The book may seem ridiculous at first glance, but mature, media-savvy teens can absorb positive messages about the absurdity of how self-help and self-esteem videos make things look so easy ... and find a sense of community in realizing they're not the only ones who recognize social media's often-unrealistic expectations.\"\n"}
{"id": "4416107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4416107", "title": "Semantic technology", "text": "Semantic technology\n\nIn software, semantic technology encodes meanings separately from data and content files, and separately from application code. \n\nThis enables machines as well as people to understand, share and reason with them at execution time. With semantic technologies, adding, changing and implementing new relationships or interconnecting programs in a different way can be just as simple as changing the external model that these programs share.\n\nWith traditional information technology, on the other hand, meanings and relationships must be predefined and “hard wired” into data formats and the application program code at design time. This means that when something changes, previously unexchanged information needs to be exchanged, or two programs need to interoperate in a new way, the humans must get involved.\n\nOff-line, the parties must define and communicate between them the knowledge needed to make the change, and then recode the data structures and program logic to accommodate it, and then apply these changes to the database and the application. Then, and only then, can they implement the changes.\n\nSemantic technologies are “meaning-centered.” They include tools for:\n\n\nGiven a question, semantic technologies can directly search topics, concepts, associations that span a vast number of sources.\n\nSemantic technologies provide an abstraction layer above existing IT technologies that enables bridging and interconnection of data, content, and processes. Second, from the portal perspective, semantic technologies can be thought of as a new level of depth that provides far more intelligent, capable, relevant, and responsive interaction than with information technologies alone.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29115541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29115541", "title": "Sex, Slander, and Salvation", "text": "Sex, Slander, and Salvation\n\nSex, Slander, and Salvation (Investigating The Family/Children of God) was a 1994 book edited by J. Gordon Melton and James R. Lewis, on the Family International. \"Sex, Slander, and Salvation\" consists of 17 chapters made up of essays and research papers revolving around the Family International religious movement.\nThe introduction was written by James R. Lewis.\n\nRobert Balch, critiquing the book in a 1996 issue of \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\", wrote that the book suffered from a \"methodological flaw running throughout the book.\" According to Balch sources of information were limited exclusively to committed members and Family literature failing to triangulate it with ex-member testimony. Balch also expressed concern about the scholars being subjected to impression management by the Family thus skewing their research data. Balch concluded that it was a book worth having for the information on the Family but also for the \"serious questions it raises about bias in the way new religions are studied.\"\n\nRichard Singelenberg discussed the book in a review he wrote for the \"Journal of Contemporary Religion\"; he wrote favorably on it but identified two flaws he found in the book.\n\nJames D. Chancellor, a Christian researcher who undertook his own study of The Family, wrote in \"Toward Reflexive Ethnography: Participating, Observing, Narrating\" (2001) that \"a number of insightful articles\" in \"Sex, Slander and Salvation\" were among \"the most useful sources\" he had consulted at the beginning of his own research.\n\nBenjamin Beit-Hallahmi in the 2001 book \"Misunderstanding Cults\" characterized the work as \"made-to-order PR efforts (with a few scholarly papers which got in by honest mistakes on the part of both authors and editors)\" and just one of the \"extreme examples of the literature of apologetics that has dominated NRM research for years.\"\n\nStephen A. Kent and Theresa Krebs would later allege the use of \"media homes\" during the course of the researchers' studies for \"Sex, Slander and Salvation\". \"Media homes\" were described by Kent and Krebs as follows: \"Hand-picked individuals living in these well-funded facilities went through rehearsals about how to portray themselves and the group to media, scholars, and others who might scrutinize them.\" Kent and Krebs also noted question-and-answer pamphlets produced by the group to prevent members from \"revealing sensitive information about the group.\"\n"}
{"id": "1586182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1586182", "title": "Simulacra and Simulation", "text": "Simulacra and Simulation\n\nSimulacra and Simulation () is a 1981 philosophical treatise by Jean Baudrillard, in which he seeks to examine the relationships between reality, symbols, and society, in particular the significations and symbolism of culture and media involved in constructing an understanding of shared existence. \n\nSimulacra are copies that depict things that either had no original, or that no longer have an original. Simulation is the imitation of the operation of a real-world process or system over time.\n\n\"Simulacra and Simulation\" is most known for its discussion of symbols, signs, and how they relate to contemporaneity (simultaneous existences). Baudrillard claims that our current society has replaced all reality and meaning with symbols and signs, and that human experience is a simulation of reality. Moreover, these simulacra are not merely mediations of reality, nor even deceptive mediations of reality; they are not based in a reality nor do they hide a reality, they simply hide that nothing like reality is relevant to our current understanding of our lives. The simulacra that Baudrillard refers to are the significations and symbolism of culture and media that construct perceived reality, the acquired understanding by which our lives and shared existence is and are rendered legible; Baudrillard believed that society has become so saturated with these simulacra and our lives so saturated with the constructs of society that all meaning was being rendered meaningless by being infinitely mutable. Baudrillard called this phenomenon the \"precession of simulacra\".\n\n\"Simulacra and Simulation\" delineates the sign-order into four stages:\n\"Simulacra and Simulation\" identifies three types of simulacra and identifies each with a historical period:\n\nBaudrillard theorizes that the lack of distinctions between reality and simulacra originates in several phenomena:\nA specific analogy that Baudrillard uses is a fable derived from \"On Exactitude in Science\" by Jorge Luis Borges. In it, a great Empire created a map that was so detailed it was as large as the Empire itself. The actual map was expanded and destroyed as the Empire itself conquered or lost territory. When the Empire crumbled, all that was left was the map. In Baudrillard's rendition, it is conversely the map that people live in, the simulation of reality where the people of Empire spend their lives ensuring their place in the representation is properly circumscribed and detailed by the map-makers; conversely, it is reality that is crumbling away from disuse.\n\nWhen Baudrillard refers to the \"precession of simulacra\" in \"Simulacra and Simulation\", he is referring to the way simulacra have come to \"precede\" the real in the sense mentioned above, rather than to any \"succession\" of historical phases of the image. Referring to \"On Exactitude in Science\", he argued that just as for contemporary society the simulated copy had superseded the original object, so, too, the map had come to precede the geographic territory (c.f. Map–territory relation), e.g. the first Gulf War (which Baudrillard later used as an object demonstration): the image of war preceded real war. War comes not when it is made by sovereign against sovereign (not when killing for attritive and strategic neutralisation purposes is authorised; nor even, properly spoken, when shots are fired); rather, war comes when society is generally convinced that it is coming.\n\n"}
{"id": "52122195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52122195", "title": "Streitraum", "text": "Streitraum\n\nJason Farago of BBC Culture has regarded \"Streitraum\" as \"an intelligent and aggressive public lecture series\".\n\nThe theme of the 2014–15 season was ' (In search of democracyor: Publicity and mistrust). The season opened with ', a discussion with Deirdre Curtin, professor of European law, on the role of the economy and secret services in politics. In the second event, Alain Badiou and Thomas Ostermeier discussed the legitimacy and authority of democracy from the perspective of philosophy and theatre.\n\nTwo discussions were dedicated to the conflict in Russia and the Ukraine. The title ' (When I think of Russia ..., after Heine's ') was given to the discussions between Emcke and her guestswho included Alice Bota, Nino Haratischwili and about the relevance of fiction to an evaluation of the actual political situation in these regions. Another discussion, \"?\" (Far-right politicsin the blind spot of democracy?), with , , and Antonia von der Behrens, covered German domestic policy, focusing on the NSU.\nA month later Emcke and her guest, the Indian-American author Suketu Mehta, explored the relationship between people and their cities, while the following discussion, ' (Misrust and publicity), with , Bernhard Pörksen and Sonja Zekri, focused on the crisis of trust in journalism. The next event was related to a play performed at the Schaubühne, Milo Rau's \"The Civil Wars\", which was in 2015 part of the \"Festival Internationale Neue Dramatik\" (F.I.N.D.). The author Gudrun Krämer and politician Franziska Brantner () discussed with Emcke the ' (Questioning the idea of Europe, in the light of radicalism, less solidarity, and violence). In the final event, Klaus Theweleit drew connections between his analysis of \"\" (The desire to kill) and the political discourse on violence.\n\nOccasionally, events unrelated to the season's theme are held under the name of \"Streitraum Extra\". For example, the \"Streitraum Extra\" discussions of 2013 included \"\"\" (Asylum in Germany?); ', with David Grossman; and ' (Power, Sexuality, and Violence), with .\n\nThe December 2015 \"Streitraum Extra\" was dedicated to refugees with a reading of pertinent texts, with Lars Eidinger, Nina Hoss, , Terézia Mora, Thomas Ostermeier, Katja Petrowskaja, Najem Wali, Liao Yiwu, and Carolin Emcke participating. It was held as a charity event for Pro Asyl.\n\n"}
{"id": "711032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711032", "title": "Takatāpui", "text": "Takatāpui\n\nTakatāpui (also spelled takataapui) is the Māori word meaning a devoted partner of the same sex. In modern terminology, a person who identifies as takatāpui is a Māori individual who is queer, in other words gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender (LGBT). \"Takatāpui\" is used nowadays in response to the Western construction of \"sexuality, gender, and corresponding identity expressions.\" (gender identity and sexual identity). The term encompasses not only aspects of sexuality but also cultural identity. \"Takatāpui\" incorporates both a sense of indigenous identity and communicates sexual orientation; it has become an umbrella term to build solidarity among sexuality and gender minorities within Māori communities.\n\n\"Takatāpui\" is not a new term, but the application of it is recent. The \"Dictionary of the Māori Language\"—first compiled by missionary Herbert Williams in 1832—notes the definition as \"intimate companion of the same sex\". After a long period of disuse there has been a resurgence since the 1980s for a label to describe an individual who is both Māori and non-heterosexual. The word \"takatāpui\" was found to have existed in pre-colonial New Zealand to describe relationships between people of the same sex. The existence of this word repudiates the conservative Māori argument that homosexuality did not exist in Māori society prior to the arrival of Europeans.\n\nThe classic and earliest full account of the origins of gods and the first human beings is contained in a manuscript entitled \"Nga Tama a Rangi\" (\"The Sons of Heaven\"), written in 1849 by Wī Maihi Te Rangikāheke, of the Ngāti Rangiwewehi tribe of Rotorua. The manuscript \"gives a clear and systematic account of Māori religious beliefs and beliefs about the origin of many natural phenomena, the creation of woman, the origin of death, and the fishing up of lands. No other version of this myth is presented in such a connected and systematic way, but all early accounts, from whatever area or tribe, confirm the general validity of the Rangikāheke version. It begins as follows: 'My friends, listen to me. The Māori people stem from only one source, namely the Great-heaven-which-stands-above, and the Earth-which-lies-below. According to Europeans, God made heaven and earth and all things. According to the Māori, Heaven (Rangi) and Earth (Papa) are themselves the source'\" (Biggs 1966:448).\n\nOne of the great love stories of the Māori world is the legend of Hinemoa and Tūtānekai. The story remains popular and is retold in songs, films, cultural theatre and dance. Hinemoa defies her family to claim Tūtānekai, her \"heart's desire\" - the love-child of a chief's wife who was not her social equal. In reading Te Rangikāheke's original version in Māori, Laurie found that Tūtānekai had a male friend, \"hoa takatāpui\", and Tūtānekai was \"nowhere near as impressed by Hinemoa as the romantic Victorian narrative had construed\". After Tūtānekai became united with Hinemoa, Tiki famously grieved for the loss of his \"hoa takatāpui\". Tūtānekai, feeling grieved as well, arranged that his younger sister marry Tiki to console him. While no-one can say Tūtānekai and Tiki were sexually involved, their relationship was accepted to be intimate beyond mere friendship, and the story illustrates the concept that \"takatāpui\" in traditional Māori life was not exactly the same as constructions of contemporary homosexuality in Western societies.\n\nOne of the first contemporary uses of \"takatāpui\" was in a report to the Public Health Commission by Herewini and Sheridan (1994), which used the term to encompass Māori gay men as well as men who have sex with men but who don't identify as gay. The historical usage of the term might not correspond with contemporary understanding of LGBT identities, while information on non-heterosexual sexuality and variations from gender roles as we understand them today has been substantially eradicated by Victorian morality brought by colonizers and Christian missionaries. Although circumstantial, there remains some evidence that takatāpui lived without discrimination in pre-European times. Some contemporary Māori LGBT people use the terms \"gay\" and \"lesbian\" as a convenience, while others self-identify as \"takatāpui\" to resist the colonization of their identities and bodies which would \"deny access to important ancestral knowledge\". Some use both terms depending on the context. Using \"takatāpui\" to self-identify requires acceptance of oneself as Māori as well as being LGBT. About one fifth of Māori are young people, but the state education system does not explicitly provide for exploring multiple identities. The traditional spiritual and social roles that \"takatāpui\" have played in historical Māori societies are not easily incorporated into teaching plans and despite a 2002 mandate from the Ministry of Education, there remains a \"wholesale absence of culturally appropriate sexuality curriculum in schools for the Māori.\"\n\nDerivatives of \"takatāpui\" include \"takatāpui kaharua\" for bisexual, \"takatāpui wahine\" for lesbian and \"takatāpui wahine ki tāne\" or \"takatāpui tāne ki wahine\" for trans men/trans man or trans women. \"Takatāpui\" serves as an umbrella term for all these identities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78775", "title": "Terpsichore", "text": "Terpsichore\n\nIn Greek mythology, Terpsichore (; Τερψιχόρη) \"delight in dancing\" is one of the nine Muses and goddess of dance and chorus. She lends her name to the word \"terpsichorean\" which means \"of or relating to dance\". She is usually depicted sitting down, holding a lyre, accompanying the ballerinas' choirs with her music. Her name comes from the Greek words τέρπω (\"delight\") and χoρός (\"dance\"). She is also a Mother of the sirens and Parthenope.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1117016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1117016", "title": "The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins", "text": "The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins\n\nThe 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins is a children's book, written and illustrated by Theodor Geisel under the pen name Dr. Seuss and published by Vanguard Press in 1938. Unlike the majority of Geisel's books, it is written in prose rather than rhyming and metered verse. Geisel, who collected hats, got the idea for the story on a commuter train from New York to New England while he was sitting behind a businessman wearing a hat; the passenger was so stiff and formal that Geisel idly wondered what would happen if Geisel took his hat and threw it out the window. Geisel concluded that the man was so \"stuffy\" that he would just grow a new one.\n\nSet in feudal times, the story begins in the Kingdom of Didd, when King Derwin is riding through a street past peasant protagonist Bartholomew Cubbins. Ordered to remove his hat, according to the laws, Bartholomew does so, but another hat mysteriously appears; when he attempts to remove this one, yet another one appears; as this continues, the hats begin to grow in extravagance and beauty from the 451st hat onwards. Ultimately the 500th hat, studded with massive gems and gilding, leaves Bartholomew's head bare. Stunned by the beauty of the hat, King Derwin grants him reprieve and trades him 500 gold coins for the 500th hat.\n\nThe book received positive reviews from critics. \"The New York Times\" reviewer called the book \"a lovely bit of tomfoolery which keeps up the suspense and surprise until the end.\" \"Booklist\", which had criticized Geisel's previous book, \"And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street\", for containing only enough material for one comic strip, praised \"The 500 Hats\" as \"a brand-new idea, developed into a complete tale, not too long, not too short, just right. Somewhere between the Sunday supplements and the Brothers Grimm, Dr. Seuss has produced a picture book combining features of both.\" Alexander Laing, who had worked with Geisel on the \"Dartmouth Jack-O-Lantern\" humor magazine, wrote in his review of the book in the \"Dartmouth Alumni Magazine\", \"His several other occupations, madly fascinating as they are, may have been only preludes to a discovery of his proper vocation. That he is a rare and loopy genius has been common knowledge from an early epoch of his undergrad troubles. It now becomes plain that his is the self-consistent, happy madness beloved by children. I do not see what is to prevent him from becoming the Grimm of our times.\"\n\n\nThe characters of Bartholomew and King Derwin returned a decade later in \"Bartholomew and the Oobleck\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48303325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48303325", "title": "Victor Langlois", "text": "Victor Langlois\n\nVictor Langlois (20 March 1829 – 14 May 1869) was a French historian, archaeologist, professor, numismatist, and orientalist who specialized in the study of the Middle Ages. Langlois was particularly known for his work on Armenian history and culture. He authored more than thirty books on Armenian history.\n\nVictor Langlois was born on rue Sygogne in Dieppe, France on 20 March 1829. He was educated at the École Nationale des Chartes and Institut national des langues et civilisations orientales. On 7 May 1852, at the age of 23, he received orders from the French government to visit the predominantly Armenian populated area of Cilicia in the Ottoman Empire to carry out studies about historic French and Armenian relations. In particular, Langlois was tasked with studying Armenian-French relations during the Crusades, and to uncover archaeological findings. Remaining in Cilicia until 1853, Langlois published a book on his findings in 1861 entitled \"Voyage dans la Cilicie et dans les montagnes du Taurus\" (\"Travels in Cilicia and the Taurus Mountains\"). Terracotta figures which he had found in his excavations in the necropolis of Tarsus were exhibited in the Louvre.\n\nBetween the year 1857 and 1861, Langlois traveled in Italy in order to discover more historical information concerning the relations between France and Armenia during the Crusades. His other works relate to Egyptian and Georgian numismatics (1852), and to the convent of San Lazzaro degli Armeni of the Armenian Mekhitarist congregation, with an outline of Armenian history and literature (1862). During this time, in 1863, he published a book about the massacres of Armenians by Turks entitled \"Les Armeniens de la Turquie et les Massacres du Taurus\" (\"The Armenians of Turkey and the Taurus massacres\"). In 1867 he published \"Le mont Athos et ses monasteres\", with a photo-lithographic reproduction of the geography of Ptolemy, of which the Greek manuscript of the 17th century is preserved in that monastery. He became a professor at the Collège de France in Paris. The first volume of his \"Collection des historiens anciens et modernes de l'Armenie\", a translation from the Armenian language, was published in 1868, under the auspices of the Egyptian-Armenian prime minister Nubar Pasha, but he did not live to complete the work.\n\nSome of Victor Langlois' published works include:\n\nAmong Langlois' illustrations in his books concerning Armenian history include:\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "26585953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26585953", "title": "Youssef Hourany", "text": "Youssef Hourany\n\nYoussef Hourany (born 1931) is a Lebanese writer, archeologist and historian. Hourany received his diploma in philosophy, from the Lebanese University, and his PhD on the ancient philosophy of history from The Université Saint-Esprit de Kaslik ().\n\nHourany taught ancient history in the Université Saint-Esprit de Kaslik from 1970 to 1977, and from 1977 to 1995 he taught philosophy and archeology in the Lebanese University, then he retired according to the law with professor grade.\n\nHourany has five children: Monique, Dominique, Marwan, Dania and Lotof.\n\n\n\nmain website: http://www.youssefhourani.blog.com\n"}
