{"id": "8834586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8834586", "title": "American City Flags", "text": "American City Flags\n\nAmerican City Flags is a special double volume issue of \"\", a peer-reviewed journal published by the North American Vexillological Association. It is the first comprehensive work on the subject, documenting the municipal flags of the largest 100 U.S. cities, all 50 state capitals, and at least two cities in each state. Each article describes in detail the flag’s design, adoption date, proportions, symbolism, selection, designer, and predecessors.\n\n"}
{"id": "48932437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48932437", "title": "Antiquary's Books series", "text": "Antiquary's Books series\n\nThe Antiquary's Books series was edited by John Charles Cox, and published in London by Methuen & Co.. It comprised some 28 titles. In relation to British parish history, it has been said that\n\n\"[...] several of Cox's series (1904–15) of Antiquary's Books retained their value, notably his own contributions on parish registers and churchwarden's accounts and Nathaniel Hone on manorial records.\n"}
{"id": "1970608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970608", "title": "Artstor", "text": "Artstor\n\nArtstor is a non-profit organization that builds and distributes the Digital Library, an online resource of more than 2 million images in the arts, architecture, humanities, and sciences, and Shared Shelf, a Web-based cataloging and image management software service that allows institutions to catalog, edit, store, and share local collections.\n\nSince 2003, the organization has been an independent non-profit 501(C)(3) organization based in New York. Starting in 2016, it joined in a strategic alliance with Ithaka Harbors, which currently operates the services JSTOR, Portico, and Ithaka S+R.\n\nIn the late 1990s, as universities and libraries began to convert their slide libraries into local digital image databases, Artstor was created to address the growing need for a shared online image library that would be accessible to educational institutions worldwide. The Artstor Digital Library is intended to reduce redundant efforts of scanning and cataloging thousands of the same images from multiple repositories, and also to enable new digital image collections to be shared for teaching and research. The initiative paired innovative digital image and online technologies with Mellon Foundation’s ongoing mission to support higher education, museums, the arts, and art conservation to “bring about a substantial transformation in art-related teaching, learning, and research.”\n\nArtstor's primary goals as an organization are: to assemble image collections from across many time periods and cultures; to create an organized, central, and reliable digital resource that supports strictly non-commercial use of images for research, teaching and learning; and to work with the arts and educational communities to develop collective solutions for building, managing and sharing digital images for educational use. Like many non-profits, Artstor has a mixed business model; some services are provided on a fee basis (geared toward the size of the subscribing institution) and others are provided free of charge to the community.\n\nThe Artstor Digital Library includes a set of software tools to view, present, and manage images for research and teaching purposes. There are currently more than 1,500 Artstor institutional subscribers in over 40 countries, including colleges and universities, museums, libraries, primary and secondary schools, and other non-profit organizations.\nThe Artstor Digital Library offers a wide range of images needed for interdisciplinary teaching and research, including contributions from the leading museums, photo archives, libraries, scholars, photographers, artists, and artists’ estates. These diverse collections include: Magnum Photos, Carnegie Arts of the United States, The Illustrated Bartsch, the Mellon International Dunhuang Archive, The Huntington Archive of Asian Art, and The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) Architecture and Design Collection, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Bodleian Library, and more.\n\nThe Digital Library comprises more than one million images from hundreds of collections worldwide. The Digital Library is continually expanded by new contributions such as: Mark Rothko Estate; Latin American Art (Cisneros Collection); San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (SFMOMA); Christopher Roy: African Art and Architecture; Berlin State Museums; the Gernsheim Corpus of Master Drawings (185,000 images of old master drawings); Larry Qualls Archive (100,000 images documenting 30 years of New York City gallery exhibitions); architectural photography from Esto, Canyonlights and ART on FILE; university collections from Harvard and Yale; and historical photo archives such as the National Gallery of Art and Frick Art Reference Library, among many others.\n\nTools and features\n\nArtstor users have the ability to search, organize, present, upload, and share images. In addition to keyword and advanced searching, users may browse works by geography, classification, or collection name. Users can zoom in on high-resolution images in the image viewer and review related information in image data records. They can also export images for use in classroom presentations and other non-commercial, educational uses, either as JPEGs, or presentations for PowerPoint 2007. Artstor has also developed the Offline Image Viewer (OIV), an alternative tool for giving offline classroom presentations. OIV allows users to download much larger images from Artstor, combine Artstor images with their own content to create digital slide show presentations that feature side-by-side comparisons, zooming and panning, and the ability to customize text on the slides. OIV enables instructors to give reliable classroom presentations using both high-resolution Artstor images and local content without being connected to the Internet. The Artstor Digital Library is accessible through Apple iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, and Android-powered devices, providing read-only features such as searching and browsing, zooming, and viewing saved image groups.\n\nArtstor also provides Shared Shelf, a Web-based cataloging and digital media management software service that allows institutions to catalog, edit, store, and share local collections. Shared Shelf was launched in 2011. Artstor worked with ten institutional partners to develop this service: Bard College, Colby College, Cornell University, Harvard University, Middlebury College, New York University, Society of Architectural Historians, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, University of Miami, and Yale University.\n\nAs part of Artstor's mission of using digital technologies to further education, scholarship, and research worldwide, the organization collaborates with other institutions in the community to offer a number of services, many of them free.\n\nDigital Public Library of America (DPLA)\n\nThrough a collaboration with Artstor, the Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) is providing free access to more than 10,000 high-quality images and data records from six leading museums: the Dallas Museum of Art, the Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Samuel H. Kress Collection at the National Gallery of Art, the Walters Art Museum, the Yale Center for British Art and the Yale University Art Gallery.\n\nImages for Academic Publishing (IAP)\n\nArtstor’s Images for Academic Publishing (IAP) program makes available publication-quality images for use in scholarly publications free of charge. The IAP program was initiated by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2007 and is now available as an optional service to all museums who contribute images to the Artstor Digital Library. Scholars can access these images through the Artstor Digital Library at subscribing institutions or can request free access to IAP by contacting Artstor.\n\nCurrent IAP contributors include Frank Cancian (University of California, Irvine) (forthcoming), Dallas Museum of Art, Getty Research Institute, Indianapolis Museum of Art, Mellink Archive (Bryn Mawr College), Metropolitan Museum of Art, Northwestern University Library, Princeton University Art Museum (forthcoming), the Walters Art Museum, and the Yale University Art Gallery.\n\nBuilt Works Registry (BWR)\n\nArtstor and the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University are collaborating on the creation of the Built Works Registry (BWR), a community-generated data resource for architectural works and the built environment. The BWR’s goal is to create the system and tools to enable the gathering and widespread dissemination of a large and growing body of built works information. It will serve scholars, students, educators, librarians, and catalogers from academic and cultural heritage organizations worldwide, and will be openly accessible to the general public. The project is supported by a three-year National Leadership grant awarded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS).\n\nThe Getty Research Institute (GRI), nine other institutions, and an international advisory board will also participate throughout the three-year project development cycle. BWR data will be contributed to the Getty Vocabulary Program’s Cultural Objects Name Authority (CONA) and will be a critical component to the controlled vocabulary warehouse in Shared Shelf.\n\nSociety of Architectural Historians Architecture Resources Archive (SAHARA)\n\nThe SAH Architecture Resources Archive (SAHARA), an online library of architectural and landscape images for research and teaching, is a collaboration among The Society of Architectural Historians (SAH), scholars of architectural history, librarians, and Artstor, funded by a grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.\n\nEMET (Embedded Metadata Extraction Tool)\n\nEMET is a software tool that is freely available for download as a stand-alone application. EMET is intended to facilitate management and preservation of digital images and their incorporation into external databases and applications. EMET was created by Artstor through funding from the National Digital Information Infrastructure and Preservation Program (NDIIPP). For programmers interested in reviewing and customizing the code, EMET is also available as an open source application on SourceForge.\n\n"}
{"id": "54920088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54920088", "title": "Arxivers sense Fronteres", "text": "Arxivers sense Fronteres\n\nThe Arxivers sense Fronteres (English: Archivists without Borders) (est. 1998) is an organization of archivists headquartered in Barcelona, Spain. It facilitates volunteer efforts to preserve documentary heritage, especially in developing countries. \n\nThe group coordinates with branch organizations in other countries, such as: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "41217435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41217435", "title": "Bivouac Mountain Encyclopedia", "text": "Bivouac Mountain Encyclopedia\n\nThe Canadian Mountain Encyclopedia is an organization based in Vancouver, British Columbia founded in 1995 to provide information on Canada's mountains, backroads and trails. It is aimed at hikers and mountaineers, a similar audience to the Canadian Alpine Journal or a guidebook. The articles are supported by a GIS database and mapping system. The organization maintains a structured database of mountains for all Canada with access trails and backroads. The online reference database has about 30,000 mountains, 4000 backroads and 3000 trails.\n\nThe initial core of the website was the mountain, road and trail databases. In 2009, a project was begun to upgrade the road and trail database, taking advantage of the newer air photos currently available via Google Earth. This has resulted in numerous corrections to previous data based on government maps. Roads and trails were classified and color coded according to their current conditions reported by about 7000 road bulletins written by eye witness users of the roads. \n\nIn October 2000, a major project involving about 30 volunteer editors was begun to catalog every Canadian and US mountain. The initial scope was to catalog every peak over 300 meters of topographic prominence. The source of the data in Canada was the 1:50,000 series National Topographic Series maps, and in the United States, the USGS maps. In British Columbia the source was the TRIM data published by British Columbia Basemap. The catalog involved charting and cataloging many peaks without official name. Many of these peaks had \"standing names\" in the previous authoritative guidebooks such as Climber's Guide to the Rocky Mountains of Canada, first published in 1921, and \"A Guide to Climbing and Hiking in Southwestern British Columbia\" published in 1986 by Bruce Fairley, and these were adopted by Canadian Mountain Encyclopedia. Previously uncharted peaks were assigned letter codes, geographic names and provisional names. The first phase of the cataloging was completed in 2003 and from then on, a steady trickle of updates were made as errors were reported. In 2012, a major project was begun to systematically recheck every peak, now plotted on the newer mapping systems of the website.\n\n"}
{"id": "31361231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31361231", "title": "Boogie-Doodle", "text": "Boogie-Doodle\n\nBoogie-Doodle is a 1940 drawn-on-film visual music short by Norman McLaren, set to the boogie-woogie music of African-American jazz pianist Albert Ammons.\n\nThough released by the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) in 1941, \"Boogie-Doodle\" was actually made by McLaren in New York City in 1940, a year before he was invited by John Grierson to Canada to found the NFB's animation unit. McLaren, who had been influenced by the hand-painted films of Len Lye, was in New York exploring the technique on a grant from the Solomon Guggenheim Foundation, creating \"Boogie-Doodle\" along with three other cameraless films: \"Dots\", \"Loops\" and \"Stars and Stripes\".\n\nThe animation in \"Boogie-Doodle\" coincides exactly with Ammon's musical piece, with McLaren's animation beginning at the very first bar and concluding at the final note.\n\n"}
{"id": "57384745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57384745", "title": "Bustop, Inc. v. Los Angeles Bd. of Ed.", "text": "Bustop, Inc. v. Los Angeles Bd. of Ed.\n\nBustop, Inc. v. Los Angeles Bd. of Ed. was the name shared by two separate challenges to the desegregation plan in Los Angeles, California, ruled on in 1977 and 1978. The plaintiff, Bustop, Inc., sued the Los Angeles Board of Education over its policy of desegregation busing of students in order to fulfill the desegregation ordered by the California Supreme Court. The plaintiff argued that the school district had ignored, \"the federal rights of its citizens to be free from racial quotas and to be free from extensive pupil transportation that destroys fundamental rights of liberty and privacy.\" The District argued that it had acted in accordance with its court-ordered and approved plan to desegregate the district. In the 1977 case the court ruled in favor of the plaintiff.. However, in the 1978 case, the court ruled in favor of the Board of Education.\n"}
{"id": "13433884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13433884", "title": "Comparative historical research", "text": "Comparative historical research\n\nComparative historical research is a method of social science that examines historical events in order to create explanations that are valid beyond a particular time and place, either by direct comparison to other historical events, theory building, or reference to the present day. Generally, it involves comparisons of social processes across times and places. It overlaps with historical sociology. While the disciplines of history and sociology have always been connected, they have connected in different ways at different times. This form of research may use any of several theoretical orientations. It is distinguished by the types of questions it asks, not the theoretical framework it employs.\n\nSome commentators have identified three waves of historical comparative research. The first wave of historical comparative research concerned how societies came to be modern, i.e. based on individual and rational action, with exact definitions varying widely. Some of the major researchers in this mode were Alexis de Tocqueville, Karl Marx, Emile Durkheim, Max Weber, and W.E.B. Du Bois. The second wave reacted to a perceived ahistorical body of theory and sought to show how social systems were not static, but developed over time. Notable authors of this wave include Barrington Moore, Jr., Theda Skocpol, Charles Tilly, Michael Mann, and Mark Gould. Some have placed the Annales school and Pierre Bourdieu in this general group, despite their stylistic differences. The current wave of historical comparative research sociology is often but not exclusively post-structural in its theoretical orientation. Influential current authors include Julia Adams, Anne Laura Stoler, Philip Gorski, and James Mahoney.\n\nStudies of comparative nature have taken place in recent years. For PhD dissertations this can be an approach used. One example is comparing communities and minorities and social groups. Mordechai Zaken compared two non-Muslim minorities in Kurdistan, the Jews and the Assyrian Christians in their relationships with their Muslim rulers and tribal chieftains during the 19th and 20th centuries. His comparative study gave a much clearer picture on the status of the minorities and their relationships with the ruling elites in and around Kurdistan. His PhD dissertation and the online book upon which it was based have been widely spread and translated into the local languages in Kurdistan and the surrounding.\n\nThere are four major methods that researchers use to collect historical data. These are archival data, secondary sources, running records, and recollections. The archival data, or primary sources, are typically the resources that researchers rely most heavily on. Archival data includes official documents and other items that would be found in archives, museums, etc. Secondary sources are the works of other historians who have written history. Running records are ongoing series of statistical or other sorts of data, such as census data, ship's registries, property deeds, etc. Finally recollections include sources such as autobiographies, memoirs or diaries.\n\nThere are four stages, as discussed by Schutt, to systematic qualitative comparative historical studies: (1) develop the premise of the investigation, identifying events, concepts, etc., that may explain the phenomena; (2) choose the case(s) (location- nation, region) to examine; (3) use what Theda Skocpol has termed as \"interpretive historical sociology\" and examine the similarities and the differences; and (4) based on the information gathered, propose a causal explanation for the phenomena.\n\nThe key issues in methods for historical comparative research stem from the incomplete nature of historical data, the complexity and scale of the social systems, and the nature of the questions asked. Historical data is a difficult set of data to work with due to multiple factors. This data set can be very biased, such as diaries, memoirs, letters, which are all influenced not only by the person writing them, that person's world view but can also, logically, be linked to that individual's socioeconomic status. In this way the data can be corrupt/skewed. Historical data regardless or whether it may or may not be biased (diaries vs. official documents) is also vulnerable to time. Time can destroy fragile paper, fade ink until it is illegible, wars, environmental disasters can all destroy data and special interest groups can destroy mass amounts of data to serve a specific purpose at the time they lived, etc. Hence, data is naturally incomplete and can lead social scientists to many barriers in their research. Often historical comparative research is a broad and wide reaching topic such as how democracy evolved in three specific regions. Tracking how democracy developed is a daunting task for one country or region let alone three. Here the scale of the social system, which is attempting to be studied, is overwhelming but also the complexity is extreme. Within each case there are multiple different social systems that can affect the development of a society and its political system. The factors must be separated and analyzed so that causality can be attained. It is causality that brings us to yet another key issue in methods for historical comparative research, the nature of the questions which are asked is attempting to propose causal relationships between a set of variables. Determining causality alone is a difficult task; coupled with the incomplete nature of historical data and the complexity and scale of the social systems being used to examine causality the task becomes even more challenging.\n\nThe three identifying issues of historical comparative research are causal relationships, processes over time, and comparisons. As mentioned above causal relationships are difficult to support although we make causal assumptions daily. Schutt discusses the five criteria, which must be met in order to have a causal relationship. Of the five the first three are the most important: association, time order and nonspuriousness. Association simply means that between two variables; the change in one variable is related to the change in another variable. Time order refers to the fact that the cause (the independent variable) must be shown to have occurred first and the effect (the dependent variable) to have occurred second. Nonspuriousness says that the association between two variables is not because of a third variable. The final two criteria are; identifying a causal mechanism- how the connection/association among variables is thought to have occurred- and the context in which this association occurs. The deterministic causal approach requires that in every study, the independent and dependent variable have an association, and within that study every case (nation, region) the independent variable has an effect on the dependent variable.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill devised five methods for systematically analyzing observations and making more accurate assumptions about causality. Mill's Methods discusses; direct method of agreement, method of difference, joint method of agreement and difference, method of residues and method of concomitant variations. Mill's methods are typically the most useful when the causal relationship is already suspected and can therefore be a tool for eliminating other explanations. Some methodologists contend Mill's methods cannot provide proof that the variation in one variable was caused by the variation of another variable.\n\nThere are several difficulties that historical comparative research faces. James Mahoney, one of the current leading figures in historical comparative research, identifies several of these in his book \"Comparative Historical Analysis in the Social Sciences.\" Mahoney highlights key issues such as how micro level studies can be incorporated into the macro level field of historical comparative research, issues ripe for historical comparative research that continue to remain overlooked, such as law, and the issue of whether historical comparative research should be approached as a science or approached as a history. This is one of the more prevalent debates today, often debated between Theda Skocpol, who sides with the historical approach, and Kiser and Hechter, who are proponents of the scientific view that should search for general causal principles. Both Kiser and Hechter employ models within Rational Choice Theory for their general causal principles. Historical researchers that oppose them (Skocpol, Summers, others) argue that Kiser and Hechter do not suggest many other plausible general theories, and thus it seems as though their advocacy for general theories is actually advocacy for their preferred general theory. They also raise other criticisms of using rational choice theory in historical comparative research.\n\nIn recent decades historical comparative researchers have debated the proper role of general theory. Two of the main players in this debate have been Edgar Kiser and Michael Hechter. They have argued that it is important to use a general theory in order to be able to test the results of the research that has been conducted. They do not argue that one specific theory is better than the other just that a theory needs to be used. Their chosen theory is rational choice. One of the main problems is that everyone has a different concept of what a theory is and what makes something a theory. Some of their opponents feel that any theory can be tested and they are arguing that some cannot be. Kiser and Hecter do acknowledge that this is a growing field and that their perspective may change in the future.\n\nThe comparative-historical method can be seen in \"The Familial State: Ruling Families and Merchant Capitalism in Early Modern Europe\". Researcher Julia Adams draws on both original archival work and secondary sources to analyze how merchant families contested with noble families for influence in the early modern Dutch Republic. She argues that those contests produced the political institutions that became the modern Dutch state, by frequently making reference to England and France. Her use of feminist theory to account for elements of the Dutch Republic, such as patriarchal kinship structures in the ruling families, expanded on earlier theories of how modern states came to be. This is an illustration of how comparative-historical analysis uses cases and theories together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31522095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31522095", "title": "Cyclopedia of Universal History", "text": "Cyclopedia of Universal History\n\nThe Cyclopedia of Universal History was an encyclopedia of then known world history (universal history) authored by John Clark Ridpath. The book was produced, initially in 3 volumes, from 1880 to 1884 and was copiously illustrated in black and white, and then expanded to four volumes in 1890 to include a comprehensive account of the events of the nineteenth century up to that time. This was later expanded to 16 volumes. It also became the prototype for his later \"History of the World\" (8 volumes, 1894) and \"Universal History\" (16 volumes, 1895). The latter comprises his four-volume work, \"Great Races of Mankind\" (1894), which was contributed to his wife, and was his last major work, having devoted ten years researching and four years writing.\n\nThe following volumes are from Ridpath's later edition of \"Cyclopedia of Universal History\" with missing volumes made up from the closely related \"Universal History\":\n"}
{"id": "15160679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15160679", "title": "Domain name front running", "text": "Domain name front running\n\nDomain name front running is the practice whereby a domain name registrar uses insider information to register domains for the purpose of re-selling them or earning revenue via ads placed on the domain's landing page. By registering the domains, the registrar locks out other potential registrars from selling the domain to a customer. The registrar typically takes advantage of the five-day \"domain tasting\" trial period, where the domain can be locked without payment. \n\nThe term was coined by domain investor and retired stockbroker Daniel Stager. ICANN \"likens this activity to front running in stock and commodities markets and calls this behavior domain name front running. ... There does not appear to be a strong set of standards and practices to conclude whether monitoring availability checks is an acceptable or unacceptable practice.\"\n\nIn January 2008, it was reported that Network Solutions uses data collected from their web-based WHOIS search to register every domain that users check for availability. Although the practice forces users to register the searched-for domains from Network Solutions, Network Solutions defends the practice, claiming that \"This protection measure provides our customers the opportunity to register domains they have previously searched without the fear that the name will be already taken through Front Running.\" However, during the four-day period, the domain is still up for sale to the general public solely through Network Solutions and is not, in fact, reserved for a specific person at all.\n\nIn June 2008, Network Solutions proposed a small fee for domain tasting, in part to end the practice of domain name front running.\n\n"}
{"id": "22869371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22869371", "title": "Encyclopaedia Metallum", "text": "Encyclopaedia Metallum\n\nEncyclopaedia Metallum: The Metal Archives (commonly known as Metal Archives per the URL or just MA) is a website which lists bands from various forms of heavy metal music. Encyclopaedia Metallum was described by Matt Sullivan of \"Nashville Scene\" as \"the Internet's central database for all that is 'tr00' in the metal world.\" \"Terrorizer\" described the site as \"a exhaustive list of pretty much every metal band ever, with full discographies, an active forum and an interlinking members list that shows the ever-incestuous beauty of the metal scene\". Nevertheless, there are exceptions for bands which fall under disputed genres not accepted by the website.\n\nEncyclopaedia Metallum attempts to provide comprehensive information on each band, such as a discography, logos, pictures, lyrics, line-ups, biography, trivia and user-submitted reviews. The site also provides a system for submitting bands to the archives. The website is free of advertisements and is run completely independently.\n\nThe Encyclopaedia Metallum was officially launched on July 17, 2002 by two Canadians from Montreal using the pseudonyms HellBlazer and Morrigan. A couple years prior, HellBlazer had the idea of an encyclopedia for heavy metal and attempted to write each band's page using HTML. Although he gave up with that initial attempt, a fully automated site with contributions from its users was in the works. The site initially went live early in July 2002 and the first band added (Amorphis) on July 7. In just over a year the site had amassed a database of over 10,000 bands. The site continues to grow at a rate of about 500 bands per month.\n\nOn 1 January 2013, the site announced that bands with entirely digital discographies could now be submitted to the Archives, changing the site's decade-long policy of physical releases only. Digital releases must have a fixed track listing, album art, professional or finished production and be available in a high-quality or lossless format through official distribution sources (such as Bandcamp and/or iTunes).\n\nOn 13 November 2014, the number of bands listed in the database reached 100,000.\n\nThe site has a tradition of April Fool's Day pranks that are sometimes taken seriously. This started in 2009 with the addition of Korn into the Metal-Archives and several dozen user reviews praising their first self-titled album, with the news article of the day claiming that the first album was metal enough for the site. A series of staged arguments between moderators appeared throughout the day on the site's forum. 2010 was the year they removed \"The Tavern\" (the general discussion forum) for a day. In 2012 the site posted an FBI logo on the main page, suggesting that the site was suspended by the FBI as a result from the SOPA and PIPA bill, which was a much-talked about phenomenon in the media around this time. Despite the ability to bypass this image just by clicking on it, many people took the prank seriously and thought that Metal Archives had actually been shut down for promoting internet piracy. Nickelback was added to the Metal-Archives in 2013 in a prank that was similar to the 2009 Korn prank, as it also had user submitted joke reviews praising various Nickelback albums.\n\nIn 2014, the prank consisted on the addition of several (mostly praising) reviews of an EP called \"Penis Metal\" released by Chilean black metal band Hades Archer, followed by the addition of the band's logo and pictures which included penis on them. The band's style was also changed to \"Penis Metal\". A secondary prank involved the spontaneous deletion of controversial band Meshuggah (whose genre was listed on the site as \"technical nu-metal/djent\" and later changed to simply \"djent\"), leading to another series of arguments between moderators on the site's forum, although not to the extent of the 2009 prank. Meshuggah were reinstated the following day. For the 2015 prank a hoax news story was posted \"announcing\" that the site was no longer free to use and the site was introducing paid membership features. A following news post revealed that the previous post was a prank. In 2016, following an argument between moderators and users alike on the question of moderating reviews, an announcement was made that reviews were no longer being accepted and that all existing ones would be deleted. Later the same day another announcement was made that the staff had changed their minds by bringing back the reviews as well as having every future review accepted automatically. This resulted in a wave of joke reviews that were deleted from the site the next day.\n\nIn 2017, the staff members announced that they would now produce articles commentating on the metal scene, and proceeded to post tabloid and gossip articles on the site. These were taken down the next day. In 2018, the website announced that it was no longer accepting new band submissions, arguing, \"We currently have over 120,000 bands, more than we ever thought possible. That is more than enough to declare our database 100% complete. Safe to say, no other resource comes close to being as thorough and comprehensive.\" The \"last\" band to be added on the site was Michael Schenker Fest. Later that day, the website revealed that this was an April Fool's prank, and wrote, \"Band submissions are open again. Here's to another 120,000 bands and more!.\"\n\nTraditional heavy metal genres and era (such as the NWOBHM) have stringent rulings; users are warned in the rules section to consider bands submitted under these classifications as \"ambiguous,\" in the sense that if a band is submitted with these terms as their genre, the music will be extensively reviewed by the moderators before they decide whether or not to accept the band onto the website. This is because in the past, some submissions labeled with those genres have turned out not to be metal, according to the site's guidelines. Some bands which are commonly referred to as traditional heavy metal or NWOBHM, such as Def Leppard, Mötley Crüe, Scorpions and Stryper, are on the website due to only one or two of the bands' albums meeting the website's specifications.\n\nAdditionally, there are some non-metal bands featured on the site that are considered to be part of the metal scene despite not being metal themselves (usually dark ambient and folk bands, examples being Mortiis, Elend, Nest, Of The Wand & The Moon, Autumn Tears, Stille Volk, etc.). These bands are selected by the moderators \"in an admittedly arbitrary fashion,\" and their submission by normal users is discouraged. Their submission was entirely restricted to site staff in September 2015.\n\nCertain genres related to metal that the site does not accept are djent and nu metal, although some bands who are on the site have released albums in the latter genre (examples being Machine Head, who released two nu-metal albums while the genre was at its peak in popularity, but have spent most of their career as a groove metal band, and Soulfly, who started out as nu-metal before moving away from that sound, and were accepted on the basis of their later albums). Metalcore and deathcore are only allowed on the site if the moderators consider at least one album \"clearly more metal than core\", examples being As I Lay Dying, Killswitch Engage, After the Burial, Carnifex, Whitechapel, Thy Art Is Murder and Despised Icon are allowed on the site while Bring Me the Horizon, Atreyu, Born of Osiris, Between the Buried and Me and Oceano are not allowed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31099202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31099202", "title": "Europa World Year Book", "text": "Europa World Year Book\n\nThe Europa World Year Book provides detailed country surveys containing analytical, statistical and directory data available for over 250 countries and territories.\n\nVolume I contains a listing of more than 2,000 international organizations such as the United Nations and its agencies, the European Union, the International Criminal Court and the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, and provides coverage of countries arranged alphabetically from Afghanistan to Equatorial Guinea.\n\nVolume II covers countries from Eritrea to Nicaragua.\n\nVolume III covers countries from Niger to Zimbabwe and includes an index of territories.\n\nEach country is covered by an individual chapter containing:\n\n\nAll is also available in nine regional surveys:\n\nAlmanacs issued by other publishers:\n\n"}
{"id": "44016952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44016952", "title": "Francis J. McCabe", "text": "Francis J. McCabe\n\nFrancis Joseph McCabe (May 3, 1936 - March 15, 2014) was a manufacturing company executive, inventor, pilot and an environmentalist. He was the founder of Prefco Products, a fire and smoke damper manufacturer and also designed the world’s fastest and lowest wind-responding wind-turbine airfoil.\n\nIn addition, McCabe was a rocket scientist and had worked with Boeing, MDI and NASA engineers. McCabe gave speeches, was a consultant, a writer and owned more than 100 patents in machinery and aerodynamics. Before his death, McCabe was working on gryoscopic physics, examining its spin-motion-power energy usages. He had submitted this idea to NASA as a way to replace rocket propulsion. McCabe taught gyroscopic science through The Institutes for the Achievement of Human Potential and at The Quaker School in Horsham, PA.\nMcCabe was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Felix and Josephine McCabe. He graduated from Northeast Catholic High School for Boys, where he was an honor student. After graduation, McCabe took mechanical engineering classes at Drexel University. He then joined the Navy where he served as a pilot from 1958-1964. Upon leaving the Navy he worked in various jobs, including owning a hot rod building company that modified engines in different combinations of hot rods. McCabe once modified a 1958 Corvette to go faster than 200 miles per hour with his own engine accessories. In 1968 he started his first company, Prefco Products, a fire damper and smoke control company in Doylestown, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe research and development team at Prefco developed 'The McCabe Link'- a resettable Bi-metal fire link that is a heat releasing device for fire and smoke protection applications. The McCabe Link became recognized as a life saving invention by the UL and ASHRAE. Prefco also manufactured fire and smoke dampers that allow ventilation systems to draw toxic smoke from a building that is on fire. Their products are sold throughout the United States, Canada, South America, Asia and the Middle East. Prefco helped standardize the smoke control industry worldwide, and was instrumental in changing laws on fire regulation and safety.\n\nMcCabe also founded the Levr/Air firm in Doylestown, where he created the most powerful max-torque windmill airfoil system from the air and wind technology he developed at Prefco. This new wind technology was deployed to power the air system and production lines at Levr/Air. McCabe also created the first car to run on compressed air. The vehicle was charged by a low RPM high-torque wind mill, either from the wind mill mounted on the car or remotely.\nWith the help of NASA engineers, McCabe also modified the world's fastest single engine airplane, the Glasair III. McCabe had also built and owned 3 experimental airplanes and had flown parachute hang gliders, experimental planes, civilian planes, Navy planes, commercial airliners and the Space Shuttle trainer.\n\nIn 2009, McCabe was Vice-President of Advanced Designs for Omniwind Energy. Omniwind had the idea of mounting a wind turbine on a 30-foot pole and positioning it next to a house. The turbine, with its unique airfoil design, would be capable of producing energy at wind speeds as low as three to five miles per hour. The design was invented by McCabe, with the idea of using the energy as it is produced, so there would be no need for battery cells to store it.\n\nIn later life, he became interested in gyroscopic physics and conducted experiments in gyroscopic motion. McCabe said he believed that the spiral energy called gyroscopic precession had the potential to become the world’s most powerful generator of energy and power. McCabe claimed that his discovery could be used to reduce greenhouse gases, thereby reducing pollution.\n\nAccording to McCabe, there was power created from the gyroscopic precession and he explored how to channel that power. McCabe's theory was that a spinning wheel shaped like a disc put into gyroscopic motion by a certain amount of torque could, in turn, produce an exponential amount of torque. McCabe discovered that when he used an air compressor to put 1.2 pounds per square inch (PSI) of torque into his gyroscopic wheel, it created 1,200 PSI of torque out. He also discovered the in-to-out relationship grew in an exponential manner and that by adding a second wheel, it put in 25 PSI, and the result was 4,200 PSI. McCabe was quoted as saying about his experiment: “If Isaac Newton ever saw this thing, the world would be a different place today.”\n\nMcCabe also explored using gyroscopes for use in DNA re-encryption. This work began when he built moving machines for brain damaged children for the Institute for Achievement of Human Potential. McCabe taught gyroscopic science at the Institute and at The Quaker School in Horsham, Pennsylvania.\n\nMcCabe has published 11 scientific articles on aerodynamics, gyrodynamics, smoke/fire control, building and hospital disease control and social policies. He was invited by the Queen to speak to the Parliament of England about reducing germs in hospitals by implementing pressurization (contaminated-low; uncontaminated-high) to prevent the spread of germs, which had already been initiated by McCabe in his local hospital. McCabe's other awards and achievements include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50175712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50175712", "title": "G &amp; G v Wikimedia Foundation Inc", "text": "G &amp; G v Wikimedia Foundation Inc\n\nG & G vs. Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. [2009] EWHC 3148 (QB) was an English legal case. The case involved \"G\" who sought a Norwich Pharmacal order requiring that the respondent disclose the IP address of an individual who had edited Wikipedia to include private and sensitive information about her and her child. The order was granted.\n"}
{"id": "31584795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31584795", "title": "Gabriel de Vallseca", "text": "Gabriel de Vallseca\n\nGabriel de Vallseca, also referred to as Gabriel de Valseca and Gabriel de Valsequa and Gabriel de Vallsecha (before 1408 - after 1467) was a Catalan cartographer of Jewish descent connected to the Majorcan cartographic school. His most notable map is the portolan of 1439, containing the first depiction of the recently discovered Azores islands.\n\nGabriel de Vallseca was born in Barcelona to a family of Jewish conversos. He is sometimes said to be the son of Haym ibn Risch (of the Cresques family), who, upon conversion, took the name Juan de Vallsecha. Alternatively, he had Majorcan relatives through his mother or his wife.\n\nBy 1433, Vallseca had left Barcelona and was living in Palma, Majorca, where he soon made a name for himself as a master cartographer, instrument-maker and merchant. He lived in the parish of Santa Creu, in the marine and commercial district of the city. He married Floreta Miró and had two sons, Francesc and Joan, both of whom later had run-ins with the Spanish Inquisition for \"judaizing\", which suggests their father Gabriel may also have been a crypto-Jew. Vallseca wrote out his last will in the city of Majorca in 1467 and died shortly after.\n\nThere are three existing portolan charts signed by Gabriel Vallseca\n\n\nThere are also two anonymous maps attributed to him:\n\n\nAlthough his style conforms to the traditional Majorcan cartographic school, Vallseca incorporated some more contemporary innovations in cartography from Italy, Portugal and elsewhere, most notably from Francesco Beccario (e.g. the homogenization of the scale between the Mediterranean and Atlantic). Gabriel de Vallseca's charts retain some signature Majorcan decorative motifs, such as the wind rose, miniature humans,animals and plants, the Atlas Mountains shaped as a palm, the Alps as a chicken's foot, Bohemia as a horseshoe, the Danube as a chain, the Tagus as a shepherd's crook, the Red Sea colored red, and scattered notes and labels in the Catalan language.\n\nVallseca's most famous map is the portolan of 1439, particularly for incorporating the very recent discoveries of the captains of the Portuguese Prince Henry the Navigator. Its depiction of the Atlantic Ocean stretches from Scandinavia down to the Rio de Oro and including the Atlantic islands of the Azores, Madeira and Canaries, as well as the imaginary islands of Thule, Brazil and Mam.\n\nThe most notable is the depiction of the islands of the Azores (officially discovered in 1431 by Henry's captain Gonçalo Velho Cabral), which although incorrectly spaced, are accurately depicted for the first time as strung out from southeast to northwest.\n\nThe 1439 map is signed \"Gabriell de Valsequa la feta en Malorcha, any MCCC.XXX.VIIII\". According to a marginal note on the reverse side, this map was once owned by Amerigo Vespucci, who paid 80 gold ducats for it. (\"Questa ampia pella di geographia fue pagata da Amerigo Vespuci - LXXX ducati di oro di marco\"). It is conjectured Vespucci probably acquired it in Florence in the 1480s, and that he might have even have taken it on his 1497-1504 voyages to the New World.\n\nThe 1439 Vallseca map was acquired in Florence by the Cardinal Antonio Despuig y Dameto sometime before 1785, and subsequently came into the possession of his heirs, the Majorcan Counts of Montenegro. The map suffered an accident in the winter of 1838/39, when the Count of Montenegro was in the process of showing it to his visitors, Frédéric Chopin and George Sand. A carelessly-placed inkwell tipped onto the map, causing irreparable blots and marring the legibility of some of the labels on the western part of the map.\n\nMost notably, the inkwell accident damaged Vallseca's crucial note pertaining to the discovery of the Azores. The current note reads as follows:\n\nThe surname and part of the date are smudged. The earliest reading we have of this portion of the map is by a Majorcan named Pasqual in 1789 who jotted the surname down as \"Guullen\". It has since been read as Diego de Senill ('the Old' - a hopeful reading in the direction of Gonçalo Velho) and de Sevill or de Sunis, Survis, Sinus, Simis, Sines. The date has been alternatively interpreted \nMCCCCXXVII (1427) or MCCCCXXXII (1432) or MCCCCXXXVII (1437). In 1943, historian Damião Peres proposed Diogo de Silves and the date as 1427, which is now commonly cited in Portuguese sources.\n\nVallseca names eight or nine islands of the Azores, which have been hard to read because of the ink accident. One 1841 reading (by the Visconde de Santarem) identifies the names of the eight islands as \"Ylla de Osels\" (Ucello, Santa Maria), \"Ylla de Frydols\" (São Miguel), \"Ylla de l'Inferno\" (Terceira), \"Guatrilla\" (São Jorge), \"de Sperta\" (Pico), \"Ylla de ...?\" (erased, Faial?) and (although not yet officially discovered) the more westerly \"Ylla de Corp-Marinos\" (Corvo) and \"Conigi\" (Flores) (these last two would only be officially discovered by Diogo de Teive in 1452; Vallseca apparently lifted these last two from the Catalan Atlas of 1375). Other readings decipher \"deserta\" (rather than de Sperta), \"jlla bela\" (instead of Guatrilla), \"illa aucells\" or \"jlha aurolls\" (instead of Osels/Uccello), \"faucols\" (instead of Frydols) and \"raio marnos\" or \"vegis marins\" (instead of Corp-Marinos).\n\nIn 1910, the Count of Montenegro put the 1439 map up for sale. It was bought by the Catalan Pere Bosc i Oliver, who proceeded to sell it to the Institute of Catalan Studies, which deposited it at the National Library of Catalonia in Barcelona in 1917. It was transferred in 1960 to the Museu Marítim de Barcelona, where it is currently on display.\n\nThere is one reproduction of the map, made in 1892 for an exhibition on the 4th centenary of Columbus in Spain, that is currently in the possession of the Naval Museum of Madrid.\n\n"}
{"id": "53613736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53613736", "title": "Gaddala Solomon", "text": "Gaddala Solomon\n\nG. Solomon (Telugu: గద్దల సొలమన్ అయ్యగరు) \"(born 28 December 1910; died 6 February 1993)\" was an Old Testament Scholar and a Baptist Patriarch hailing from the Protestant Samavesam of Telugu Baptist Churches Society \"(an affiliate member of the Baptist World Alliance and the National Council of Churches in India)\" and led it as its President during the years 1978-1982 overseeing the spiritual affairs of the Church Society whose ecclesiastical jurisdiction comprises the three states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana with 873 Churches comprising nearly a million members per present statistics.\n\nIn 1957, Solomon made a comparative analysis of suffering as viewed in two ancient scriptures, one from the Ancient Near East and the other from the Indian subcontinent where he provides the respective literature on suffering in both the scriptures, its genesis and outlook and some common insights between the two, particularly on retribution (see Klaus Koch (1955): \"Is there a Doctrine of Retribution in the Old Testament\"). Solomon highlights the example of Job (biblical figure) where the sufferer endures it with the thought of a glimmer of hope some day or the other reposing unflinching trust in God. Old Testament Scholars down the line have drawn parallels on Prophet Job and Raja Satya Harishchandra providing scholarly insights into the problem of suffering endured by these two legends and how they overcame it for a cause. A chronological analysis of the comparative literature on the problem of suffering in addition to the one by Solomon, reveals that John Bowker came out with \"Problems of Suffering in Religions of the World\" in 1970 where suffering as viewed by the diverse religions of the world has been presented. Later, in 1979, the Pune-based inquisitive Chemical engineers of the National Chemical Laboratory namely S. Prabhakara Rao and M. Prakasa Reddy came out with \"Job and His Satan - Parallels in Indian Scripture\" which was published in the German Old Testament scholarly journal, \"ZAW\". A couple of years' later, David J. A. Clines came out with a research paper entitled \"In Search of the Indian Job\" where he provides a century of scholarly research on Job and Raja Satya Harishchandra that appeared in the \"Vetus Testamentum\". Later in 1998, a Scholar at the St. Peter's Pontifical Seminary, Bangalore studying under Anthony Raymond Ceresko and Gnana Robinson researched specifically on Job and Harishchandra focusing on the problem of suffering.\n\nSolomon's research brought out the many facets of suffering where his scholarship is profoundly visible as he sheaves through the views on suffering in the Old Testament as he quotes from the Pentateuch and the other books of the Old Testament with a comprehensive bibliography but the conclusions that he drew are an eye opener for those viewing suffering as a reason of our own follies. In the final analysis, Solomon looks into the possibilities of a more humane understanding of suffering overcoming Dogma and providing for repentance or rather an opportunity to set right the past and move forward. Solomon wrote, \"The solution of the problem of suffering in Christianity is that God also suffers along with the sufferer and helps him to endure it for His glory.\"\n\nSolomon's work could best be understood if one were to look at a 1990 work entitled \"Wisdom tradition and the Indian Parallels with special reference to Telugu literature\" by the Old Testament Scholar, G. Babu Rao, who writes, \nAs an Old Testament Teacher, Solomon first taught at the Ramayapatnam Baptist Theological Seminary, Ramayapatnam from 1958 to 1972 during the Principalships of The Rev. Maurice Blanchard and The Rev. Louis F. Knoll. Subsequently in 1962, the seminary was affiliated to the Senate of Serampore College (University), India's first University making the seminary become the first B.D.-level institution in Andhra Pradesh to be affiliated with the University.\n\nIn the seventies, Ecumenism brought together the different seminaries in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana with the starting of the near-ecumenical Andhra Christian Theological College in the year 1964 by the Baptists (CBCNC), the Lutherans (AELC, SALC), the Methodists (MCI) and the Anglicans, Congregationalists and the Wesleyans (CSI). Solomon's Church Society, the Samavesam of Telugu Baptist Churches was already running a seminary with English as a medium of instruction with Serampore affiliation for its B.D. whereas the new near-ecumenical venture offered L.Th. courses in Telugu as a medium of instruction.\n\nHowever, two years' later, the Ramayapatnam Baptist Theological Seminary through the efforts of both The Rev. Maurice Blanchard as well as The Rev. Louis F. Knoll in 1967, with the cooperation of the Convention of Baptist Churches of Northern Circars who sent their learned faculty comprising W. G. Carder began to function as a separate entity together with the within the campus of the newly-formed near-ecumenical Andhra Christian Theological College at its erstwhile location in Rajahmundry, giving an unprecedented impetus to the new near-ecumenical venture as the inclusion of the Ramayapatnam Seminary meant higher level theological education as well as English as the medium of instruction and also the availability of the well-trained faculty of the Ramayapatnam Seminary comprising Solomon, Suppogu Joseph, Louis F. Knoll, P. Joseph, K. Wilson and others who moved from Ramayapatnam to Rajahmundry to take up B.D. classes teaching alongside the faculty of Andhra Christian Theological College which was then entitled to offer only Licentiate in Theology courses. By 1972, Louis F. Knoll along with W. P. Peery led the integration of the B.D. section of the Ramayapatnam Baptist Theological Seminary into the Andhra Christian Theological College before it moved in 1973 to its present location in Secunderabad.\n\nAfter general studies at the AELC-Andhra Christian College, Guntur leading to Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics under the Andhra University in 1934, Solomon took up work at the Buckingham and Carnatic Mills in Chennai but a decade later, discerned his avocation towards priesthood and much like the early Church Father, Saint Ambrose of Milan, Solomon relinquished civil work at Chennai and took to priesthood.\n\nBy 1949, Solomon enrolled at the Protestant Regional Theologiate - the United Theological College, Bangalore for spiritual studies during the Principalship of Max Hunter Harrison, the College's first Old Testament Teacher and studied until 1952 for the three year Bachelor of Divinity course. Solomon's companions who were studying at the College at varying intervals included, D. J. Ambalavanar, N. D. Ananda Rao Samuel, V. C. Samuel, Victor Premasagar, E. C. John, Bobbili Prabhudass and others.\n\nDuring the ensuing convocation of the Senate of Serampore College (University) held in 1953, Solomon was awarded a Bachelor of Divinity during the Registrarship of The Rev. W. W. Winfield.\n\nDuring 1956-1957, Solomon was sent for postgraduate studies to the Eastern Baptist Theological Seminary, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania where he specialized in Old Testament and Biblical Hebrew language under the guidance of Edward R. Dalglish, Carl H. Morgan, and Walter B. S. Davis. By 1957, Solomon's research with the title, \"The Concept of Suffering in the Bible and Hinduism\" was published by the seminary leading to the award of Master of Theology in Old Testament.\n\nSolomon's research work was translated into Telugu and published in 1964 with the title, \"Images in Suffering\" (Telugu: బాధయొక్క భావఛిత్రణము) that also appeared in 1993 in the compilation entitled \"Bibliography of Original Christian Writings in India in Telugu\" published by the Board of Theological Education of the Senate of Serampore College (BTESSC). Solomon was among the first in India to have specialized in the Old Testament in the fifties with the others being K. V. Mathew, Rene Van de Walle, and E. C. John, all of whom were distinguished members of the Society for Biblical Studies in India.\n\nDuring 1972-1973, Solomon again joined his alma mater, the United Theological College, Bangalore during the Principalship of the Systematic Theologian, Joshua Russell Chandran to study for a Biblical Hebrew language refresher course studying under the Old Testament Scholars, E. C. John and G. M. Butterworth, the former being a direct student of Old Testament's Master Specialists, Gerhard von Rad and Claus Westermann at the University of Heidelberg, Germany.\n\nSolomon's companions at the College during 1972-1973 included Johanna Rose Ratnavathi, Florence, Nirmala Kumari, Eleanor, D. Dhanaraj, John Sadananda, J. W. Gladstone, Sydney Salins, Christopher Asir, P. Surya Prakash and others hailing from the graduate section, while D. S. Satyaranjan, Nitoy Achumi, Timotheas Hembrom, G. Babu Rao, Basil Rebera and S. J. Theodore hailed from the postgraduate section.\n\nSolomon first served as a Pastor at the Waterbury Memorial Telugu Baptist Church in Perambur in suburban Chennai during 1951-1957 till he embarked on an overseas sojourn for his postgraduate studies.\n\nWhile teaching at the Andhra Christian Theological College, Solomon was recalled by the Samavesam of Telugu Baptist Churches in 1977 to take up ministerial duties at the STBC-Centenary Baptist Church, Secunderabad in 1977. Solomon pastored the Church for nearly a decade until 1986 when he voluntarily resigned from the ministerial functions of the Church citing health reasons much like the present Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nWhen Solomon returned from the United States in 1958, he took up teaching of the Old Testament at the Ramayapatnam Baptist Theological Seminary, Ramayapatnam and later affiliated to the Senate of Serampore College (University) in 1962. Subsequently, in 1967, the B.D. section of the Seminary moved to Rajahmundry and was housed within the premises of the newly-founded Andhra Christian Theological College in Rajahmundry until it fully integrated into the Andhra Christian Theological College in 1972 by Louis F. Knoll and later shifted to Secunderabad in 1973. Solomon's students at Ramayapatnam and Rajahmundry included the Church historian Ravela Joseph, the New Testament Scholar Suppogu Joseph, Bishop Emeritus T. S. Kanaka Prasad, S. E. Krupa Rao, B. J. Christie Kumar and others.\n\nIn 1973, Solomon moved to the Andhra Christian Theological College which by then had shifted in its entirety from Rajahmundry to Secunderabad and taught Old Testament and Biblical Hebrew language to aspirants hailing from the Anglican, Baptist, Congregational, Lutheran, Methodist, Pentecostal, Wesleyan and other small and indigenous Church Societies. Solomon's other teaching colleagues included the Cantabrigian Victor Premasagar, the Wisconsin University-Scholar, R. R. Sundara Rao, the New Testament Scholar, Muriel Spurgeon Carder, the Religions Scholars, Eric J. Lott, W. P. Peery, the Systematic Theologians, Ryder Devapriam, R. Yesurathnam and others coinciding with the teaching tenures of Gali Bali, John Wijngaards and others at the St. John's Regional Seminary, the Catholic Regional Theologiate. By 1977, Solomon had to leave the College as his Church Society recalled him and assigned ministerial duties at the local Church in Secunderabad and was succeeded by The Rev. G. Babu Rao, a Teacher - in - Old Testament at Serampore College, Serampore.\n\nAmong Solomon's students during that period included Alexander John, CSI, T. Punnaiah, STBC, L. Samuel John, AELC, D. Vasantha Rao, CBCNC, K. C. Martin, CSI, Bishop Emeritus A. Rajarathnam, CSI, and others.\n\nTalathoti Punnaiah, who was an aspirant at the Ramayapatnam Baptist Theological Seminary in Ramayapatnam during 1969 in his memoir titled \"My Memoir, Ministry and Message\" writes,\n"}
{"id": "219662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219662", "title": "Gemütlichkeit", "text": "Gemütlichkeit\n\nGemütlichkeit () is a German-language word used to convey the idea of a state or feeling of warmth, friendliness, and good cheer. Other qualities encompassed by the term include coziness, peace of mind, and a sense of belonging and well-being springing from social acceptance. \n\n\"Gemütlichkeit\" derives from \"gemütlich\", the adjective of \"Gemüt\", which means \"heart, mind, temper, feeling\" expressed by (and cognate with) English \"mood\". The German abstract noun \"Gemütlichkeit\" has been adopted into English. The current meaning of the word derives from its use in the Biedermeier period. By the second half of the 19th century, it also became associated with a set of traits supposedly unique to the German culture. In the United States, the city of Jefferson, Wisconsin uses the phrase: \"The Gemütlichkeit City\" as its motto. The Wisconsin Department of Tourism also offers their own definition of gemütlichkeit on travelwisconsin.com, with claims that gemütlichkeit is a feeling one gets when visiting Wisconsin. \n\nThe word can be used in descriptions of holidays. In the 1973 English contract law case \"Jarvis v Swans Tours Ltd\", a holidaymaker sued after not receiving the \"Gemütlichkeit\" promised by the promotional literature for a package holiday to the Swiss Alps.\n\nThe communal connotations of \"Gemütlichkeit\" are also emphasized in some uses of the term. For example, one academic described it as a tradition of \"public festivity\" (in the form of a \"mixture of music, food, and drink\"), which \"promote[d] community solidarity.\" The Harlem Renaissance was then cited as of how a sense of \"Gemütlichkeit\" arises from a \"mix of music, art and politics in service of community consciousness\".\n\n\"Gemütlichkeit\" has been appropriated at least once to describe the tenor of an economic era rather than spirit of a social gathering. In analyzing the \"inflation dampening effects of globalization\" a Georgia Southern University professor wrote that certain U.S. economic trends could \"spell an end of the Gemütlichkeit — a situation in which cheap labor and money abroad as well as ever-increasing productivity at home had permitted an uninterrupted spell of controlled growth in overall prices\".\n\nEnglish has no direct translation for \"gemütlich\" or \"Gemütlichkeit\". \"Cozy\" captures an element of it but crucially lacks those of friendliness and belonging. Stemming from the Scottish Gaelic word \"còsagach\", cozy means \"1 Full of holes or crevices. 2 Snug, warm, cosy, sheltered. 3 Spongy\", according to Edward Dwelly's Scots Gaelic - English dictionary.\n\nThe English author G. K. Chesterton mentioned \"Gemütlichkeit\" in his 1906 book on \"Charles Dickens\". In the first half of the seventh chapter on \"English comfort\" he wrote that \"... the thing you cannot see out of Germany is a German beer-garden\", a venue which is the very epitome of \"Gemütlichkeit\" in that nation. Later, seeking to define what he regarded as a peculiarly English quality captured in the chapter title \"English comfort\", he continued, \"The word \"comfort\" is not indeed the right word, it conveys too much of the slander of mere sense; the true word is \"cosiness\", a word not translatable.\" Indeed, it is no direct synonym for \"Gemütlichkeit\".\n\nThe Swedish language equivalent is \"gemytlig\", deriving directly from the German word and sharing its meaning.\n\nThe Danish also has \"gemytlig\" but uses \"hygge\" (hyggelig as an adjective) instead. Likewise, in Norwegian the word translates into \"hyggelig\", but the meaning is closer to the word \"koselig\" which means cozy, comfortable, nice, or pleasant. The Dutch equivalent \"gezelligheid\" has broader social connotations than the German \"Gemütlichkeit\" and can be more accurately compared to the Danish \"hygge\".\n\nIn Bulgarian, the word is commonly translated as \"уют\" and in Russian, which means cosiness, comfort, contentment, ease, and carries almost identical connotations as the German word.\n\nThe Romance languages with Latin roots do not have a single term expressing the many connotations of \"Gemütlichkeit\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55725009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55725009", "title": "Green's Dictionary of Slang", "text": "Green's Dictionary of Slang\n\nGreen's Dictionary of Slang (\"GDoS\") is a multivolume dictionary defining and giving the history of English slang from around the Early Modern English period to the present day written by Jonathon Green. As a historical dictionary it covers not only slang words in use in the present day but also those from the past which are no longer used, and illustrates its definitions with quotations. It is thus comparable in method to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\") though with a narrower scope, since it includes only slang words; nonetheless it is more comprehensive within its scope, containing 125,000 items of slang while the \"OED\" has only 7,700 terms carrying a slang label.\n\nJonathon Green, the dictionary's author, considers the work to be in the lineage of English slang dictionaries going back to Francis Grose's 18th-century \"Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue\" and further to the 1566 glossary \"Caveat for Common Cursetours\" by Thomas Harman. The dictionary's direct ancestor is Eric Partridge's \"Dictionary of Slang and Unconventional English\" (1937–84) which originally inspired Green to write his own dictionary of slang, published as \"The Dictionary of Contemporary Slang\" in 1984.\n\nIn 1993 Cassell commissioned Green to create a new dictionary, this time broadening the focus to include slang terms from approximately 1500 onwards, but without citations. The first edition of the single-volume \"Cassell's Dictionary of Slang\" appeared in 1998. Cassell immediately commissioned a sequel with full historical quotations as in the \"OED\". Green turned down an offer from Routledge to revise Partridge's dictionary in order to embark on his own work of far greater magnitude, helped by the bequest of his deceased uncle which allowed Green to spend much more money on the necessary lexicographical research than his publisher was able to provide.\n\nWork on the dictionary continued throughout the 2000s, with a second edition of \"Cassell's Dictionary of Slang\" appearing as an interim work in 2005 and, after the acquisition of Cassell by Chambers, a third edition under the new title of the \"Chambers Slang Dictionary\" in 2008.\n\nIn 2009 the dictionary was ready to be published in its first edition, and was released in 2010 in Great Britain by Hachette (the new owners of Chambers Harrap) and in 2011 in North America by the Oxford University Press. Though Green hoped to release a full and regularly updated online edition shortly thereafter, due to a legal dispute with the dictionary's new publishers, only a limited release as an Oxford Reference ebook was possible, with no updates made.\n\nHowever, having found a suitable partner through an appeal posted on the website \"Language Log\", an updated and fully searchable online edition of the dictionary was launched in 2016 as an independent publication.\n\nUpon release of the first print edition, critical reception was broadly positive. \"The Guardian\", the \"Financial Times\", \"The Daily Telegraph\", the \"New Statesman\", and \"The New York Times\" among others praised the dictionary for its breadth and the quality of the research. It received the 2012 Dartmouth Medal of the American Library Association as a reference work of outstanding quality and significance. Michael Quinion of the website \"World Wide Words\" wrote of the dictionary's approach that \"In its historical approach, GDoS matches the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and it’s not hyperbolic to suggest that it’s the OED of slang.\"\n\nAcademic reviews of the print edition also generally praised the dictionary, though there were some points of criticism. Michael Adams wrote in the journal \"Dictionaries\" that, though the dictionary was good overall, there were problems with the clarity and focus of definitions and the accuracy of etymology which he felt left him unable to unequivocally recommend \"GDoS\" to the exclusion of previous similar dictionaries (such as the \"Historical Dictionary of American Slang\" (\"HDAS\") of Jonathan Lighter) as others had done.\n\nA similar comparison to \"HDAS\" was made by Simon Winchester in the \"New York Review of Books\". Unlike Adams, Winchester wrote that \"GDoS\" scored strongly against \"HDAS\" in almost every regard, but his view was disputed in a response by Geoffrey Nunberg of \"Language Log\", who claimed that Lighter's dictionary was better organized and often had earlier citations which \"GDoS\" missed. Green responded to Nunberg pointing out that \"HDAS\" often used a hypothetical date of composition of texts in its citations where \"GDoS\" consistently uses the more certain, but inevitably later date of first publication instead, and also defending \"GDoS\" against some of Nunberg's other claims.\n\nUpon launch of the online edition in 2016, the new version also garnered praise in the \"International Journal of Lexicography\" and positive news coverage in publications including \"Time\", \"Qz.com\", and \"Slate\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33310928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33310928", "title": "Hamed v R", "text": "Hamed v R\n\nHamed & Ors v. R [2011] NZSC 101 was a decision by the Supreme Court of New Zealand which ruled on the admissibility of video surveillance. The ruling held that evidence collected using criminal trespass on private land to conduct covert surveillance under a warrant is only admissible for serious crimes. The charges involved were related to the 2007 New Zealand anti-terror raids, as a result of the ruling, charges against all but four of the defendants were dropped.\n\nThe ruling was initially suppressed from 24 March 2011 to September 2011. Very shortly after the lifting of the suppression, the Video Camera Surveillance (Temporary Measures) Act 2011 was introduced and passed under urgency.\n"}
{"id": "32232699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32232699", "title": "John and Michael Banim bibliography", "text": "John and Michael Banim bibliography\n\nThis is a bibliography of the works of John Banim and Michael Banim. Many of their works were published pseudonymously under the name \"The O'Hara Family\". John used the name Barnes O'Hara, while Michael used the name Abel O'Hara.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "384162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384162", "title": "Legion of Honor (museum)", "text": "Legion of Honor (museum)\n\nThe Legion of Honor (formerly known as The California Palace of the Legion of Honor) is a part of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco (FAMSF). The name is used both for the museum collection and for the building in which it is housed. Since Nov 1, 2018, Thomas P. Campbell serves as its Director and CEO.\n\nThe Legion of Honor was the gift of Alma de Bretteville Spreckels, wife of the sugar magnate and thoroughbred racehorse owner/breeder Adolph B. Spreckels. The building is a full-scale replica, by George Applegarth and H. Guillaume, of the French Pavilion at the 1915 Panama–Pacific International Exposition, which in turn was a three-quarter-scale version of the Palais de la Légion d'Honneur also known as the Hôtel de Salm in Paris, by Pierre Rousseau (1782). At the close of the exposition, which was located just a few miles away, the French government granted Spreckels permission to construct a permanent replica of the French Pavilion, but World War I delayed the groundbreaking until 1921.\n\nThe museum building occupies an elevated site in Lincoln Park in the northwest of the city, with views over the Golden Gate Bridge. Most of the surrounding Lincoln Park Golf Course is on the site of a potter's field called the \"Golden Gate Cemetery\" that the City had bought in 1867. The cemetery was closed in 1908 and the bodies were relocated to Colma. During seismic retrofitting in the 1990s, however, coffins and skeletal remains were unearthed.\n\n\"Between March 1992 and November 1995—its seventy-first anniversary—the Legion underwent a major renovation that included seismic strengthening, building systems upgrades, restoration of historic architectural features, and an underground expansion that added 35,000 square feet. Visitor services and program facilities increased, without altering the historic façade or adversely affecting the environmental integrity of the site. The architects chosen to accomplish this challenging feat were Edward Larrabee Barnes and Mark Cavagnero.\"\n\nThe plaza and fountain in front of the Palace of the Legion of Honor is the western terminus of the Lincoln Highway, the first improved road for automobiles across America. The terminus marker and an interpretive plaque are located in the southwest corner of the plaza and fountain, just to the left of the Palace. Dominating the classical plaza is \"Pax Jerusalemme,\" a modern sculpture by Mark di Suvero.\n\nThe Legion of Honor displays a collection spanning more than 6,000 years of ancient and European art and houses the Achenbach Foundation for Graphic Arts in a neoclassical building overlooking Lincoln Park and the Golden Gate Bridge.\n\nThe museum contains a representative collection of European art, the largest portion of which is French. Its most distinguished collection is of sculpture by Auguste Rodin. Casts of some of his most famous works are on display, including one of \"The Thinker\" in the Court of Honor. However, there are individual works by many other artists, including François Boucher, Rembrandt, Gainsborough, David, El Greco, Giambattista Pittoni, Rubens, and many of the Impressionists and post-Impressionists—Degas, Renoir, Monet, Pissarro, Seurat, Cézanne and others. There are also representative works by key 20th century figures such as Braque and Picasso, and works of contemporary artists like Gottfried Helnwein and Robert Crumb.\n\nThe museum's contemporary art initiative brings the work of living artists into dialogue with the buildings and collections of the de Young Museum and Legion of Honor, with exhibitions such as Urs Fischer and Sarah Lucas in juxtaposition with the museum's acclaimed Rodin collection to commemorate the centenary of Rodin's death in 1917.\n\nIn 1924, John D. Spreckels commissioned the Ernest M. Skinner Company of Boston to build the symphonic organ. The museum organ, which is housed inside the museum above the main galleries, has 4 manuals and pedals, 7 divisions, 63 ranks, with a total of 4,526 pipes. Symphonic music is especially effective on the museum organ with its battery of pneumatically operated percussion instruments and set of tubular chimes. A thunder pedal is used for the musical representation of storms. All together, the organ comprises one Great Organ, a Swell Organ, a Choir Organ featuring a 16-foot Contra Dulciana, Choir Organ Echo, a Solo Organ, Solo Organ Echo, an Arch Organ outfitted with 8-foot Arch Clarion, a 64-foot Gravissima and a 32-foot Bourdon Profunda, in addition to the final Traps that were enclosed in the Choir: Bass drum, castanets, Chinese block, crash cymbal, gong snare drum (f), snare drum (ff), and a tambourine triangle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7450068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7450068", "title": "List of ATI chipsets", "text": "List of ATI chipsets\n\nThis is a comparison of chipsets, manufactured by ATI Technologies.\n\n\"Note 1\": A-Link Express and A-Link Express II is essentially PCI-Express x4 lanes, so that any PCI Express capable southbridge can be used (such as ULI M1573/M1575).\n\n\"Note 2\": For the comparison of chipsets sold under the AMD brand for AMD processors, after the completion of the acquisition of ATI, please see Comparison of AMD chipsets.\n\n\"Note 1\": For the comparison of chipsets sold under the AMD brand for AMD processors, after the completion of the acquisition of ATI, please see Comparison of AMD chipsets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35172411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35172411", "title": "List of left and far-left parties in Europe", "text": "List of left and far-left parties in Europe\n\nThis is a list of European political parties that have been classified as left-wing or far-left in the political spectrum. The categorisation of some parties may vary in different sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "40886482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40886482", "title": "Luwr", "text": "Luwr\n\nLuwr (or Luvr; Turkish: \"Lura\", Hungarian: \"Búvár\"), is a legendary female animal in Turkic and Nivkh mythologies. It is the creator wildduck.\n\nIn the Altai creation myth, in the beginning of the Earth emanated from Water. In ancient Turkish beliefs, Tangri (God) Kaira Khan is a pure, white goose that flies constantly over an endless expanse of water (time). But before Ak-Ana appears to urge Kaira Khan to create, he experiences a disturbance of his calm. From the bottom of the Water a \"sacred duck\" Lura lifted up the sand, clay and silt, from which the Earth was created. Water was the initial state of everything in existence.\n\nIn ancient Turkish beliefs, Tangri (God) Kara Han is a pure, white goose that flies constantly over an endless expanse of water (time). As a gander, Kara-han is lord of the three realms of air, water and land.\n\nIn Hungarian mythology, the sea duck is a spirit animal because ducks fly in the air and dive in the water. Thus ducks belong to both the upper world and the world below. The Sun takes the form of a golden diving-duck to retrieve the first living creatures from the bottom of the sea. Arany Atya asked the duck to bring up mud from below the water to create land. But she hid the mud in her mouth, and he was punished by having his legs broken so he could not walk.\n\nChinghiz Aitmatov in his book \"Piebald Dog Running Along The Shore\" told the story of Luvr, to be heard from Vladimir Sangi:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364210", "title": "Magic carpet", "text": "Magic carpet\n\nA magic carpet, also called a flying carpet, is a legendary carpet, and common trope in fantasy fiction. They are typically used as a form of transportation, and can quickly or instantaneously carry users to their destination.\n\nOne of the stories in the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" relates how Prince Husain, the eldest son of Sultan of the Indies, travels to Bisnagar (Vijayanagara) in India and buys a magic carpet. This carpet is described as follows: \"Whoever sitteth on this carpet and willeth in thought to be taken up and set down upon other site will, in the twinkling of an eye, be borne thither, be that place nearhand or distant many a day's journey and difficult to reach.\" The literary traditions of several other cultures also feature magical carpets, in most cases literally flying rather than instantly transporting their passengers from place to place.\n\nSolomon's carpet was reportedly made of green silk with a golden weft, sixty miles long and sixty miles wide: \"when Solomon sat upon the carpet he was caught up by the wind, and sailed through the air so quickly that he breakfasted at Damascus and supped in Media.\" The wind followed Solomon's commands, and ensured the carpet would go to the proper destination; when Solomon was proud, for his greatness and many accomplishments, the carpet gave a shake and 40,000 fell to their deaths. The carpet was shielded from the sun by a canopy of birds. In Shaikh Muhammad ibn Yahya al-Tadifi al-Hanbali's book of wonders, \"Qala'id-al-Jawahir\" (\"Necklaces of Gems\"), Shaikh Abdul-Qadir Gilani walks on the water of the River Tigris, then an enormous prayer rug (\"sajjada\") appears in the sky above, \"as if it were the flying carpet of Solomon [\"bisat Sulaiman\"]\".\n\nIn Russian folk tales, Baba Yaga can supply Ivan the Fool with a flying carpet or some other magical gifts (e.g. a ball that rolls in front of the hero showing him the way, or a towel that can turn into a bridge). Such gifts help the hero to find his way \"beyond thrice-nine lands, in the thrice-ten kingdom\". Russian painter Viktor Vasnetsov illustrated the tales featuring a flying carpet on two occasions (\"illustrations above and to the left\").\n\nIn Mark Twain's \"Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven\", magic wishing carpets are used to instantaneously travel throughout Heaven.\n\nPoul Anderson's \"Operation Chaos\" features a world making extensive use of magic in daily life, and among other things having flying carpets as a common, non-polluting means of transportation - in fierce competition with the also available flying brooms. Travelers need not sit on the bare carpet itself, as the carpet serves as the platform for a comfortable cabin. \n\nMagic carpets have also been featured in modern literature, movies, and video games, and not always in a classic context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46638053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46638053", "title": "Martin Declaration", "text": "Martin Declaration\n\nThe Martin Declaration () is the name usually given to the \"Declaration of the Slovak Nation\" () that was proclaimed in the town of Turčiansky Svätý Martin (now Martin, Slovakia) on 30 October 1918. The declaration was effectively a declaration of independence from the Kingdom of Hungary (within the Austro-Hungarian Empire) and presaged Slovakia's unification with the Czech lands as part of the new state of Czechoslovakia.\n\nSlovak separatist ambitions were largely suspended during World War I, when the leading Slovak nationalist party – the Slovak National Party (SNP) – proclaimed its loyalty to the empire. The final months of the war saw a gradual disintegration of the empire, leading to the SNP deciding to resume its drive for a separate Slovak state. Its chairman, Matúš Dula, chose Martin – a centre for Slovak cultural and political life since the 19th century – as the venue for a general meeting of the party. \n\nOn the morning of 30 October 1918, 108 delegates attended the meeting in the Tatra Bank in Martin and elected a twelve-member Slovak National Council, drawn mainly from the Slovak National Party. In the afternoon, the newly constituted council issued the declaration and sent it to Prague. The declaration announced: \"The Slovak Nation is a part of the Czecho-Slovak Nation, united in language and in the history of its culture\", and declared that only the Slovak National Council, and not the Hungarian government or any other authority, was authorised to speak for the Slovak nation.\n\nThe declaration came two days after the declaration of Czechoslovak independence by the Czech National Committee in Prague. The Slovaks acted independently as news of the Czech declaration had not reached Martin by the time of the Slovak declaration. The council attempted to take control of Slovakia but was thwarted by a Hungarian military intervention which seized Martin on 15 November. Czech troops soon took the town and the new government in Prague appointed Vavro Šrobár as minister for Slovakia. \n\nAlthough some Slovak representatives argued for autonomy for Slovakia and for the country to have its own devolved assembly, this was rejected by the Czechoslovak government; Šrobár dissolved the Slovak National Council in January 1919. The delegates at Turčiansky Svätý Martin had not defined exactly what they meant by the \"Czecho-Slovak Nation\" but seem to have had in mind a definition that upheld the distinct national identity and individuality of the Slovak people. Instead of the Slovaks being equal partners in what Edvard Beneš, the foreign minister of the Provisional Czechoslovak government, had previously declared would be a Swiss-style federated state, they found themselves being relegated to the status of a national minority. Thereafter, Slovakia was governed as part of the centralised Czechoslovak state that had been established by the Czechoslovak National Assembly in Prague.\n"}
{"id": "9099577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9099577", "title": "Masters of the Wild", "text": "Masters of the Wild\n\nMasters of the Wild: A Guidebook to Barbarians, Druids, and Rangers is an optional rulebook for the 3rd edition of \"Dungeons & Dragons\", and notable for its trade paperback format.\n\nThe guidebook provides supplemental information for characters belonging to the Druid, Ranger, and Barbarian base classes. This book introduced Natural Feats, which were still used in version 3.5. This book also contained tips for creating and playing characters of the aforementioned class, as well as several prestige classes.\n\n\"Masters of the Wild\" was written by David Eckelberry and Mike Selinker and published in 2001 by Wizards of the Coast. Cover art was by Jeff Easley, with interior art by Dennis Cramer, David Day, and Wayne Reynolds.\n\nAccording to Eckelberry: \"we looked at much of the previously published material on the \"nature classes,\" but spent more time examining how the subjects of this book work in the new \"D&D\". Since we had a bit more time post-release of the new edition of \"D&D\" than the other books in this series, we were able to listen to people we gamed with and to fans we met online and at conventions. They had a lot of things to say about what we'd be dealing with in \"Masters of the Wild\".\"\n\nIt was not updated to 3.5 Edition, although most of the prestige classes were reintroduced in the 3.5 supplemental sourcebook \"Complete Divine\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36212341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36212341", "title": "Maxim Gorky bibliography", "text": "Maxim Gorky bibliography\n\nThis is a bibliography of the works of Maxim Gorky.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30235834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30235834", "title": "Netherlands Music Institute", "text": "Netherlands Music Institute\n\nThe Netherlands Music Institute (Nederlands Muziek Instituut, NMI) is the central institution for the preservation of the musical heritage of the Netherlands.\n\nThe NMI has existed as a foundation since 1996; it became fully independent in 2006. In that same year the NMI was designated ‘sector institute for musical heritage’ by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. It receives a subsidy from the municipality of The Hague and from the national government.\n\nHistorical roots of the NMI are the music archives and music library of the Gemeentemuseum Den Haag (Municipal Museum) in The Hague and the documentary collection of the Musica Neerlandica Foundation.\n\nThe library collection contains at present 140.000 titles, with focus on the history of music in the Netherlands, European music before 1900, and organology. Several major collections have been integrated into its holdings of sheet music; among them, that of the Théâtre Français de La Haye (700 scores with parts, printed before 1850), the Johann Alsbach collection of music published in the Netherlands (11.000 titles), the Frans Vester collection of flute music (4000 titles) and Willem Noske collection of violin music (27.000 titles). Besides numerous rare first editions the library contains a number of important manuscripts, including the Siena Lute Manuscript, Mozart's Galimathias Musicum K.32 and the so-called Frankenberg organ manuscript of Johann Gottfried Walther.\n\nThe archives collection contains archives of Dutch composers, performing musicians and musical institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "369596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369596", "title": "New York Botanical Garden", "text": "New York Botanical Garden\n\nThe New York Botanical Garden (NYBG) is a National Historic Landmark located in the Bronx, New York City. The site's verdant landscape supports over one million living plants in extensive collections. Each year over a million visitors come to the garden's diversity of tropical, temperate, and desert flora, as well as programming that ranges from exhibitions in the Haupt Conservatory to festivals on Daffodil Hill.\n\nThe Garden is also a major educational institution. As of 2016, more than a million people annually—among them Bronx families, school children, and teachers—learn about plant science, ecology, and healthful eating through NYBG's hands-on, curriculum-based programming. Nearly 90,000 of those visitors are children from underserved neighboring communities, while more than 3,000 are teachers from New York City's public school system participating in professional development programs that train them to teach science courses at all grade levels.\n\nNYBG operates one of the world's largest plant research and conservation programs, with nearly 600 staff members.\n\nThe Lorillard family owned most of the land that later became the New York Botanical Garden. That land and adjacent acreage was acquired by the City of New York and set aside for the creation of a zoo and botanical garden. The Garden was established on 28 April 1891 on part of the grounds of the Lorillard Estate (formerly owned by the tobacco magnate Pierre Lorillard) and a parcel that was formerly the easternmost portion of the campus of St. John's College (now Fordham University). The Garden's creation followed a fund-raising campaign led by the Torrey Botanical Club and Columbia University botanist Nathaniel Lord Britton and his wife Elizabeth Gertrude Britton who were inspired to emulate the Royal Botanic Gardens in London. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1967.\n\n\nThe Garden contains 50 different gardens and plant collections. There is a serene cascade waterfall, as well as wetlands and a tract of original, never-logged, old-growth New York forest.\n\nGarden highlights include an 1890s-vintage, wrought-iron framed, \"crystal-palace style\" greenhouse by Lord & Burnham, now Haupt Conservatory; the Peggy Rockefeller Rose Garden (originally laid out by Beatrix Jones Farrand in 1916); a Japanese rock garden; a Herb Garden (designed by Penelope Hobhouse), a conifer collection; extensive research facilities including a propagation center, 550,000-volume library, and an herbarium of 7.8 million botanical specimens dating back more than three centuries, the largest in the U.S. and second largest in the world after the French National Museum of Natural History in Paris.\n\nAt the heart of the Garden is the old-growth forest, the largest existing remnant of the original forest which covered all of New York City before the arrival of European settlers in the 17th century. The forest, which was never logged, contains oaks, American beeches, cherry, birch, tulip and white ash trees, some more than two centuries old.\n\nThe forest itself is split by the Bronx River, the only fresh water river in New York City, and this stretch of the river includes a riverine canyon and rapids. Along the shores sits the landmark Stone Mill, previously known as the Lorillard Snuff Mill built in 1840. Sculptor Charles Tefft created the \"Fountain of Life\" on the grounds in 1905. \"It was conceived in the spirit of Italian baroque fountains, with the surging movement of galloping horses and muscular riders.\"\n\nThe Pfizer Plant Research Laboratory, built with funding from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, New York State and New York City, and named for its largest private donor, is a major new research institution at the Garden that opened in 2006. The laboratory is a pure research institution, with projects more diverse than research in universities and pharmaceutical companies.\n\nThe laboratory's research emphasis is on plant genomics, the study of how genes function in plant development. One question scientists hope to answer is Darwin's \"abominable mystery\"; when, where, and why flowering plants emerged. The laboratory's research also furthers the discipline of molecular systematics, the study of DNA as evidence that can reveal the evolutionary history and relationships of plant species. Staff scientists also study plant use in immigrant communities in New York City and the genetic mechanisms by which neurotoxins are produced in some plants, work that may be related to nerve disease in humans.\n\nA staff of 200 trains 42 doctoral students at a time, from all over the world. Since the 1890s, scientists from The New York Botanical Garden have mounted about 2,000 exploratory missions worldwide to collect plants in the wild.\n\nAt the Pfizer Plant Research Laboratory, genomic DNA from many different species of plants is extracted to create a library of the DNA of the world's plants. This collection is stored in a DNA storage room with 20 freezers housing millions of specimens, including rare, endangered or extinct species. To protect the collection during winter power outages, there is a backup 300-kilowatt electric generator.\n\nThe Alfred P. Sloan Foundation has granted the NYBG $572,000 to begin a project called TreeBOL, the Tree Barcode of Life. By sampling the DNA from all 100,000 different species of trees from around the world over the next few years, TreeBOL will document the diversity of plant life, and advance the process of plant DNA barcoding.\n\nWhen, in 1881, land was set aside by the New York State Legislature for the creation of \"a public botanic garden of the highest class\" for the City of New York, the Library and Conservatory were the first two structures built on the grounds. Prominent civic leaders and financiers, including Andrew Carnegie, Cornelius Vanderbilt, and J. P. Morgan, agreed to match the City's commitment to finance the buildings and improvements.\n\nFounded in 1899, the LuEsther T. Mertz Library is the largest, most comprehensive botanical library in the Americas. In addition to botany and horticulture, the Library's collections are used for studies in fields as diverse as history, anthropology, landscape and building design, architectural history, ethnobotany, economic botany, urban social history, and environmental policy. In addition to current scholarly books and serials, the Mertz Library holds many rare and historically important works ranging from medieval herbals, to 17th-century depictions of the princely gardens of Europe, to accounts of botanical exploration and discovery in the 18th century, to the writings of Carl von Linné (Linnaeus) and Charles Darwin.\n\nThe library is named after supporter LuEsther Mertz.\n\nThe Library has been led by a series of accomplished individuals during its over-100-year history:\n\n\nThe collection grew both through the purchase of books and through the generous donation of significant botanical and horticultural libraries from notable botanists, gardeners, scientists and book collectors Among the important personal collections to be given to the LuEsther T. Mertz Library are donations from\n\nThe Enid A. Haupt Conservatory, named after Enid A. Haupt, is a greenhouse located toward the western end of the NYBG. Inspiration for the park and the conservatory stemmed from Nathaniel Lord Britton and his wife Elizabeth. The couple had visited the Royal Botanic Garden at Kew on their honeymoon and thought a similar park and conservatory should be built for New York City. The conservatory was designed by the major greenhouse company of the late 1890s, Lord and Burnham Co. The design was modeled after the Palm House at the Royal Botanic Garden and Joseph Paxton's Crystal Palace in Italian Renaissance style. Groundbreaking took place on January 3, 1899 and construction was completed in 1902 at a cost of $177,000. The building was constructed by John R. Sheehan under contract for the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. Since the original construction, major renovations took place in 1935, 1950, 1978, and 1993. The Conservatory houses numerous tropical plants and flowers, cacti and other desert plants, and rainforest vegetation. In summer months, the two pools adjacent to the Conservatory display many varieties of lotuses and water lilies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12859706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12859706", "title": "Non-profit organizations and access to public information", "text": "Non-profit organizations and access to public information\n\nWhen government agencies outsource basic services to third-party non-profit contractors, one consequence is that the public may lose its access to information about the service that the public would have retained, had a government agency carried out the service directly.\n\nA concern that previously public information will become privatized and inaccessible to the public when a government agency moves to contract out services to third-party vendors arises whether the third-party vendor is a non-profit organization or a for-profit organization. However, a number of key court cases in this area have arisen when non-profits have rebuffed requests for information under a state's right-to-know laws.\n\nThe Piedmont Park Conservancy is a private non-profit that oversees and manages Piedmont Park. In 2007, when the organization moved forward with a plan to install a controversial parking structure, a group opposed to the plan—Friends of Piedmont Park—filed an open record request under Georgia's open records legislation for records of the Conservancy. The request was declined, and the Friends group sued. On September 12, 2007, a Georgia judge ruled that the records must be made public.\n\nIn this case, the New Jersey Supreme Court unanimously ruled in 2005 that Lafayette Yard CDC, a private non-profit, was subject to the provisions of New Jersey's open records (OPRA) legislation because it issued city-backed bonds and the majority of its board was appointed by the city council of Trenton. The litigation arose because the board of Lafayette Yard CDC kicked a reporter for the Trenton newspaper out of a meeting on the grounds that, as a private non-profit, they were not subject to open records or open meetings laws.\n\nIn this 2005 case, the Iowa Supreme Court overturned a lower court and ruled that outsourcing a public function to a private board does not privatize the records of the private board. The court wrote, \"In this appeal, we are asked to decide whether a government body may outsource one of its core functions to a private corporation, making that part of its operation nongovernmental and not subject to public scrutiny. We hold the Iowa State University Foundation, a recipient of such outsourcing, is performing a government function, and therefore its records are subject to disclosure.\"\n\nFourteen cheerleaders sued Powers Management, a private company that ran a public stadium in Nashville, Tennessee, on the grounds that their privacy had been violated by two employees of Powers Management. Powers Management reached an out-of-court settlement with the cheerleaders. The Tennessean asked for a copy of the settlement from Powers, on the grounds that Powers was functionally a government agency. In 2006, a Tennessee appeals court agreed with The Tennessean, ordering Powers to turn over a copy of the settlement to the newspaper.\n\nDowntown Vision agreed in September 2007 that it falls under Florida's open records law. Previously, the organization had stated that it was exempt because it is a private not-for-profit corporation.\n\nThe non-profit Charleston Area Alliance in West Virginia receives $100,000 annually from the Kanawha County Commission to provide economic development services to the county. However, the Charleston Area Alliance has refused to provide information about the salaries its officers receive, on the grounds that it is a private organization.\n\nIn Connecticut, the state Department of Social Services contracted with three for-profit companies and one non-profit company for Medicaid services. Each organization refused to respond to Connecticut open records requests for information about how much they were paying doctors under the plans. The Connecticut Attorney General and Connecticut Freedom of Information Coalition ruled that the documents must be made public.\n\nIn New Mexico, the non-profit New Mexico State University Foundation is claiming that because it is private, it doesn't have to release the names of donors, even though the donors are partially funding the salaries of employees at New Mexico State University. Basketball coach Reggie Theus is one recipient of a salary partially funded by undisclosed private donors. Since Theus has spoken at a public governmental hearing in favor of a private real-estate development, questions have arisen about whether he is receiving part of his salary from those real estate developers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2673834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2673834", "title": "Numeronym", "text": "Numeronym\n\nA numeronym is a number-based word.\n\nMost commonly, a numeronym is a word where a number is used to form an abbreviation (albeit not an acronym or an initialism). Pronouncing the letters and numbers may sound similar to the full word: \"K9\" for \"canine\" (phonetically: \"kay\" + \"nine\").\n\nAlternatively, the letters between the first and last are replaced with a number representing the number of letters omitted, such as \"i18n\" for \"internationalization\". Sometimes the last letter is also counted and omitted. These word shortenings are sometimes called \"alphanumeric acronyms\", \"alphanumeric abbreviations\", or \"numerical contractions\".\n\nAccording to Tex Texin, the first numeronym of this kind was \"S12n\", the electronic mail account name given to Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) employee Jan Scherpenhuizen by a system administrator because his surname was too long to be an account name. By 1985, colleagues who found Jan's name unpronounceable often referred to him verbally as \"S12n\" (\"ess-twelve-en\"). The use of such numeronyms became part of DEC corporate culture.\n\nA number may also denote how many times the character before or after it is repeated. This is typically used to represent a name or phrase in which several consecutive words start with the same letter, as in W3 (World Wide Web) or W3C (World Wide Web Consortium).\n\nSome numeronyms are composed entirely of numbers, such as \"212\" for \"New Yorker\", \"4-1-1\" for \"information\", \"9-1-1\" for \"help\", and \"101\" for \"basic introduction to a subject\". Words of this type have existed for decades, including those in 10-code, which has been in use since before World War II.\n\nChapter or title numbers of some jurisdictions' statutes have become numeronyms, for example 5150 and 187 from California's penal code. Largely because the production of many American movies and television programs are based in California, usage of these terms has spread beyond its original location and user population.\n\nThe concept of incorporating numbers into words can also be found in Leet-speak, where numbers are frequently substituted for orthographically similar letters (e.g. \"H4CK3D\" for \"HACKED\").\n\nAnne H. Soukhanov, editor of the new \"Microsoft Encarta College Dictionary\", gives the original meaning of the term as \"a telephone number that spells a word or a name\" on a telephone dial.\n\nWhere words have multiple meanings, abbreviations such as these are almost always used to refer to their computing sense; for example, \"G11n\" for \"globalization\" refers to software preparedness for global distribution, and not the social trend of globalization. In some cases, the use of appropriate case makes it easier to distinguish between letters such as uppercase I/i and lower case L/l.\n\n"}
{"id": "14601746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14601746", "title": "Our Dumb World", "text": "Our Dumb World\n\nOur Dumb World is a parody of the standard desk atlas created by the staff of \"The Onion\" and published by Little, Brown and Company on October 30, 2007. It is The Onion's first book of entirely original content since 1999's \"Our Dumb Century\".\n\nThe book, written in the satirical paper's editorial voice, contains entries for nearly every country on Earth, including detailed maps, feature articles, and humorous stereotyped descriptions of regional history and customs. For example, Romania's entry is subtitled, \"Bram Stoker's Romania.\"\n\nThere are eight distinct sections of the atlas. In order, North America, South America, Africa, Middle East, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and Extra. Included in the Extra section are the Northern and Southern Poles and Greenland, which is \"larger than Africa and South America combined.\"\n\nThe visual style of the book has been compared to Dorling Kindersley's Eyewitness series. The book uses faux xenophobia to illustrate the cultural differences of various nations, often mocking racial stereotypes with satirical comments. Each section contains \"facts\" about the nation, a brief history, and other information.\n\nElements of the book have been transferred to an electronic format available on the paper's website and as a layer on Google Earth. \"Our Dumb World\" is also available as an audio book.\n\nCritical reaction to \"Our Dumb World\" has been generally positive with reviewers praising the humor and use of satire. In the \"New York Times\", William Grimes called it \"an astoundingly offensive guide to the states of the union and the countries of the world, compiled on the premise that all countries are ridiculous and contemptible\" and found it \"sophomoric, transgressive and intermittently brilliant.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52070578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52070578", "title": "People v. Rizzo", "text": "People v. Rizzo\n\nPeople v. Rizzo, Court of Appeals of New York, 246 N.Y. 334, 158 N.E. 888 (1927), is a criminal case that set precedent for what constitutes an attempt to commit a crime.\n"}
{"id": "25129298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25129298", "title": "Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. v. Bucci", "text": "Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. v. Bucci\n\nPlanned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. v. Bucci, 42 U.S.P.Q.2d 1430 (S.D.N.Y. 1997), an early Internet domain trademark infringement case heard in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, established the theory that hosting a site under a domain name that was the registered trademark of a third party constituted trademark infringement. The case was also important in determining what constitutes \"Use in Commerce\" under the Lanham Act in cyberspace. Although these holdings were modified and overruled by various American courts following the decision, \"Bucci\" stands as a seminal case for being one of the first cases to address these issues.\n\nPlanned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. is the U.S. affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation. The organization receives its funding from governmental grants and contracts as well as private contributions.\n\nPlanned Parenthood has been using the Planned Parenthood mark since as early as 1922 and registered the mark in the 1950s. At the commencement of the action, the Planned Parenthood mark was considered strong, famous, and incontestable under federal trademark law.\n\nRichard Bucci, at the time of the decision, operated a daily Catholic Radio program in Syracuse, New York. Bucci operated websites at www.catholicradio.com and www.lambofchrist.com.\n\nOn August 28, 1996, Bucci registered the domain www.plannedparenthood.com. The site's homepage, as operated by Bucci, contained the text \"Welcome to the PLANNED PARENTHOOD HOME PAGE!\" The page also included a scanned cover of the book \"The Cost of Abortion\" by Lawrence Roberge. The site also included a text version of the book's foreword and afterword, quotes about the book, a section about the author, and the author's contact information.\n\nPlanned Parenthood filed a request for preliminary injunction citing trademark infringement under §§ 1114, 1125(a) and 1125(c) of the Lanham Act.\n\nThe question before the court was whether Bucci's use of the PLANNED PARENTHOOD trademark in the website's domain name violated the Lanham Act's provisions.\n\nTrademark Infringement: Federal trademark law makes it a violation for a party to \"use in commerce any reproduction, counterfeit, copy, or colorable imitation of a registered mark in connection with the sale, offering for sale, distribution, or advertising of any goods or services on or in connection with which such use is likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive.\" \n\nThe court interpreted the \"Use in Commerce\" provision broadly to be co-extensive with Congress' commerce clause power under the Constitution. Accordingly, even though Bucci wasn't selling anything on his website, the court held that he violated this provision. First, the court held Bucci was in violation because he was helping Roberge \"plug\" his book. Second, by promoting anti-birth control information, Bucci was providing a \"service\" to site viewers. Third, because Bucci had the domain name, people looking for Planned Parenthood's services may abandon their search for the legitimate Planned Parenthood site, and this interfered with Planned Parenthood's services.\n\nTrademark Dilution: The Lanham Act also provides that the owner of a famous mark can enjoin a party's \"commercial use in commerce of a mark or trade name, if such use begins after the mark has become famous and causes dilution of the distinctive quality of the mark.\" \n\nAlthough Bucci claimed that his use of the mark was not commercial, the court held that the use was commercial for three reasons: 1) Bucci was involved in promoting a book; 2) Bucci was a non-profit activist who solicited funds; 3) Bucci's actions were designed to do commercial harm to Planned Parenthood.\n\nBecause these actions were held to be commercial, the court found that the domain name diluted the PLANNED PARENTHOOD trademark.\n\nImpermissible Implied Sponsorship: Under Federal trademark law, a party infringes a mark if the use \"is likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive as to the affiliation, connection, or association of such person with another person, or as to the origin, sponsorship, or approval of his or her goods, services, or commercial activities by another person.\" The court held that because Bucci offered information relating to anti-abortion materials and solicited funds, he was acting commercially and therefore violated this provision.\n\nLikelihood of confusion: Finding that Lanham §§ 1114, 1125(a) and 1125(c) were applicable, the court applied Second Circuit's eight factor \"Polaroid\" balancing test in determining if the use was likely to cause confusion. Because the bulk of the factors weighed in favor of Planned Parenthood, the court decided that a preliminary injunction was appropriate.\n\nBucci's Defenses: Bucci argued that he was protected because his usage of the mark was both parody and protected by the First Amendment. As for the parody defense, the court held that it did not apply because the initial site viewing did not contradict an internet user's assumption that the site was operated by Planned Parenthood. For the First Amendment defense, the court held that because Planned Parenthood wanted only to restrain Bucci's usage of their mark as a domain, and not his actual speech, the defense did not apply.\n\nThe defendant was barred from using the Planned Parenthood mark, making \"colorable\" imitations, representing the defendant (by offering information, products, or services), and from taking any other action in creating confusion for internet users or consumers in relation to the Planned Parenthood mark.\n\nBucci appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In a non-substantive summary order, the Second Circuit affirmed the trial court's reasoning and upheld the injunction.\n\nBucci then appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States, but certiorari was denied.\n\nFollowing the denial of certiorari, the domain was transferred to Planned Parenthood in early 1999.\n\nIn \"Ford Motor Co. v. 2600 Enterprises\", 177 F. Supp. 2d 661 (E. D. Mich. 2001), the court narrowed the \"Bucci\" holding by stating that the mere usage of a mark in a domain name in itself is not commercial, emphasizing Bucci's plugging of the book.\n\nIn \"Taubman Co. v. Webfeats\", 319 F. 3d 770 (6th Cir. 2003), the Sixth Circuit declined to strictly follow the \"Bucci\" holding by stating that one of the reasons Bucci infringed was that Bucci adopted another party's mark without any other changes in the domain name and that the mere incorporation of a trademark into a domain was not, in itself, infringement.\n\nIn \"Bosley Medical Institute, Inc. v. Kremer\", 403 F.3d 672 (9th Cir. 2005), the Ninth Circuit looked not just at the nature of a potentially infringing webpage, but also the nature of the outbound links from the page, before determining that there was not a use in commerce.\n\nBecause there has been no Supreme Court decision on the issue of what exactly constitutes a \"Use in Commerce\" under the Lanham Act with regard to the incorporation of a trademark into a domain name, it is difficult to say whether the \"Bucci\" case is still good law. However, because there have been so many divergent opinions and fact specific determinations from subsequent cases, it is not likely that the case would be strictly followed by other courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "8197011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8197011", "title": "Rafiq Tağı", "text": "Rafiq Tağı\n\nRafiq Tağı, born Rafig Nazir oglu Taghiyev (5 August 1950, Khoshchobanly, Masally District, Azerbaijan — 23 November 2011, Baku, Azerbaijan) was an Azerbaijani short story writer and a journalist who worked for \"Sanat\" newspaper until police arrested him and \"Sanat\" editor Samir Sadagatoglu for \"Europe and Us\", an article that was deemed to be critical of Islam and the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He was considered to be inciting racial hatred and sentenced to three years in prison. Released on a presidential pardon some months later he was assassinated in a car park.\n\nTağı was born in the village of Khoshchobanly, Masally District, Azerbaijan. He graduated from the Azerbaijan State Medical University and worked as a physician in rural parts of Azerbaijan. He later received a degree in cardiology from the I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University. Beginning in 1990, he worked at the Emergency Medical Services Hospital in Baku.\n\nA journalist whose works have been published in both Azerbaijani and foreign media, Tağı over his career became particularly known as an author of six collected prose books and a number of controversial articles. His membership at the Writers' Union of Azerbaijan of which he had been a member for 16 years was revoked after he wrote a critical essay analysing social and political views of the renowned Soviet-era Azerbaijani poet Samad Vurghun. Another article entitled \"Europe and Us\" published in 2006 in the newspaper \"Sanat\" provoked protests in Azerbaijan and Iran, as well as a fatwa pronouncing the death penalty from Grand Ayatollah Fazel Lankarani.\n\nIn 2006, some residents of the village of Nardaran, \"a stronghold for Shia Islamists\" in Azerbaijan, during their demonstrations demanded severe punishment for Tağı. Protesters carried placards saying \"Death to Israel!\" and all speeches were met with a loud \"Allahu Akbar!\" Hajiagha Nuriyev, chairman of Azerbaijan's unregistered Islamic Party, said that Tağı was \"acting on behalf of international Zionism and Armenia\".\n\nIn 2007 the Azerbaijan Court of Appeals in absentia of the culprits has rejected the appeals request filed by Tağı and editor Sadagatoglu. He was accused of promoting religious hatred and was sentenced to four years in jail by for instigating religious hostility. After 8 months of imprisonment with a presidential pardon, he was released.\n\nRafiq Tağı died on 23 November 2011 of a knife injury received on 19 November in a car park near his home. In an interview held just one day prior to his death, Rafiq Tağı stated the attack could be an act of retaliation for the article \"Iran and the Inevitability of Globalization\" he had published on 10 November 2011 and in which he criticised Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for \"discrediting Islam.\"\n\nTağı's family voiced concerns that no one had been held liable for the murder within a week from the event and informed of their intention to sue the Ministry of Health and the chief physician of the clinic where Tağı had died for negligence causing death. In addition, they announced their plans to seek political asylum in one of the Western countries.\n\nOn 15 December 2011, the European Parliament passed a resolution in which it condemned the murder of Rafiq Tağı.\n\nInvestigative journalist and Tağı's fellow columnist Khadija Ismayilova blames the assassination on radical Islamists who are working closely with Iran's secret intelligence.\n\nWhistleblower Elshad Abdullayev believes Ministry of National Security general Akif Chovdarov is responsible for the assassination.\n\nThe Iranian embassy in Baku denied all allegations that Iran was somehow linked to the assassination and called them \"ungrounded.\"\n\nOn his website, ayatollah Mohammad Javad Lankarani, the son of the fatwa-issuing ayatollah Mohammad Fazel Lankarani who himself died in 2007, published a statement in which he praised the killers for \"sending the reprobate who insulted the prophet to hell\" and was assured that Muslim youths would not let \"the intrigues of global imperialism and Zionism be carried on.\"\nIn this case, the dissident jurist, Mohsen Kadivar, engaged in a heated moral and legal debate over the legitimacy of the Fatwa with the son of the recently deceased Ayatollah. He argued that the Fatwa its extraterritorial enforcement was inhumane, sacrilegious, and unconstitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3284866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3284866", "title": "Seven Days to the River Rhine", "text": "Seven Days to the River Rhine\n\nSeven Days to the River Rhine (, \"Sem' dney do reki Reyn\") was a top-secret military simulation exercise developed in 1979 by the Warsaw Pact. It depicted the Soviet bloc's vision of a seven-day nuclear war between NATO and Warsaw Pact forces.\n\nThis possible World War III scenario was released by the conservative Polish government following their election in 2005, in order to \"draw a line under the country's Communist past\", and \"educate the Polish public about the old regime.\" \n\nRadosław Sikorski, the Polish defense minister at the time the documents were released, stated that documents associated with the former regime would be declassified and published through the Institute of National Remembrance in the coming year.\n\nThe files released included documents about \"Operation Danube\", the 1968 Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. They also included files on the 1970 Polish protests, and from the martial law era of the 1980s.\n\nThe Czechs and Hungarians had declassified related documents in the 1990s.\n\nThe scenario for the war was NATO launching a nuclear attack on Polish cities in the Vistula river valley area in a first-strike scenario, as well as Czech cities, which would prevent Soviet bloc commanders from sending reinforcements to East Germany to forestall a possible NATO invasion of that country. The plan expected that as many as two million Polish civilians would die in such a war and Polish operational strength would be completely destroyed.\n\nA Soviet nuclear counter-strike would be launched against West Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Denmark.\n\nThe assumption of NATO initiating the conflict might have been a politically palatable cover for what might have been an offensive plan. This is seen in many NATO and USSR war game scenarios.\n\nMaps associated with the released plan show nuclear strikes in many NATO states, but exclude both France and the United Kingdom. There are several possibilities for this lack of strikes, the most probable being that both France and the United Kingdom are nuclear weapons states, and as such retain nuclear arsenals that could be employed in retaliation for nuclear strikes against their nations.\n\nThe French forces employed a nuclear strategy known as \"dissuasion du faible au fort\" (weak-to-strong deterrence); this is considered a \"counter-value\" strategy, which implies that a nuclear attack on France would be responded to by a strike on Russian cities. See Force de frappe for more information on the French conceptualization of nuclear warfare.\n\n\"The Guardian\" newspaper, however, speculates that \"France would have escaped attack, possibly because it is not a member of NATO's integrated structure. Britain, which has always been at the heart of NATO, would also have been spared, suggesting Moscow wanted to stop at the Rhine to avoid overstretching its forces.\"\n\nThere are many high-value targets in Britain (like RAF Fylingdales, RAF Mildenhall, and RAF Lakenheath) that would then have to be struck in a conventional manner in this plan, though a nuclear strike would be far more effective (and, as the plans show, a preferable option for the Soviet leadership as shown by their strikes in Western Europe). The plan also indicates that USAF fighter-bombers, primarily the long-ranged F-111, would be employed in nuclear strikes, and that they would launch from those British bases.\n\nThe Soviets planned to use about 7.5 megatons of atomic weaponry in all during such a conflict.\n\nVienna was to be hit by two 500-kiloton bombs, while Vicenza, Verona, Padova, and several bases in Italy were to be hit by single 500-kiloton bombs. Hungary was to capture Vienna.\n\nStuttgart, Munich, and Nuremberg in West Germany were to be destroyed by nuclear weapons and then captured by the Czechoslovaks and Hungarians.\n\nIn Denmark, targets would include Roskilde and Esbjerg. Roskilde, while having no military significance, would be targeted for its cultural and historical significance to break the morale of the Danish population and army, while Esbjerg would be targeted for its large harbour capable of facilitating delivery of large NATO reinforcements.\n\nThe Soviets planned to have reached Lyon by day nine and to press on to a final position at the Pyrenees. The Czechoslovaks thought it to be too optimistic at the time, and some present-day Western planners believe that such a goal was difficult or even unattainable. There were also plans of a naval operation in the North Atlantic against NATO shipping.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1684332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684332", "title": "Slavic dragon", "text": "Slavic dragon\n\nA slavic dragon is any dragon in Slavic mythology, including the Russian \"zmei\" (or \"zmey\"; ), known in Ukraine as \"zmiy\" (), and its counterparts in other Slavic cultures: the Bulgarian \"zmei\" (), the Polish , the Serbian and Croatian \"zmaj\" (, ). The Romanian \"zmeu\" is also a Slavic dragon, but a non-cognate etymology has been proposed. \n\nA \"zmei\" may be beast-like or human-like, sometimes wooing women, but often plays the role of chief antagonist in Russian literature. In the Balkans, the \"zmei\" type is overall regarded as benevolent, as opposed to malevolent dragons known variously as \", \"ala\" or \"hala\", or \"aždaja\".\n\nThe Polish \"smok\" (e.g. Wawel Dragon of Kraków) or the Ukrainian or Belarusian \"smok\" (смок), \"tsmok\" (цмок), can also be included. In some Slavic traditions \"smok\" is an ordinary snake which may turn into a dragon with age.\n\nSome of the common motifs concerning Slavic dragons include their identification as masters of weather or water source; that they start life as snakes; and that both the male and female can be romantically involved with humans.\n\nThe derivation that Serbo-Croatian \"zmaj\" \"dragon\" and \"\" \"earth\" descended from proto-Slavic root \"zbm\", and Indo-European *ḡhdem, was proposed by Croatian linguist Petar Skok.\n\nThe forms and spellings are Russian: \"zmei\" or \"zmey\" (pl. \"zmei\" ); Ukrainian: \"zmiy\" (pl. \"zmiyi\" ); Bulgarian: \"zmei\" (pl. \"zmeiove\" ); Polish \"zmiy\" (pl. \"żmije\"); Serbian \"zmaj\" (pl. ), Croatian (pl. \"zmàjevi\"); Slovene \"zmaj\" \"zmáj\" or \"zmàj\" (pl. \"zmáji\" or \"zmáji\"). \n\nIn the legends of Russia and Ukraine, a particular dragon-like creature, Zmey Gorynych ( or ), has three to twelve heads, and spits fire. According to one bylina, Zmei Gorynych was the dragon killed by Dobrynya Nikitich.\n\nTugarin Zmeyevich, known as \"zmei-bogatyr\" or \"serpent hero\", is a man-like dragon who appears in Russian (or Kievan Rus) heroic literature. Tugarin may symbolize the Turkic or Mongol steppe peoples.\n\nChudo-Yudo (or Chudo-Iudo, ; pl. \"Chuda-Yuda\") is a multi-headed dragon, appearing in some wondertale variants. The Chudo-Iudo is considered to be water-dwelling. In some legends he is described as the brother of Koschey the Deathless, and thus the off-spring of Baba Yaga, and in others as personification of the witch in her foulest form. Chudo Yudo is one of the guardians of the Water of Life and Death, and his name traditionally was invoked in times of drought. He can apparently assume human-like forms, this being is able to ride a horse. He has the ability to grow up the missing heads.\n\nThe term may not be a name for a specific type of dragon at all, but rather a fanciful term for a generic \"monster\". According to this explanation, the term is to be understood as a poetic form of \"chudovishe\" () meaning \"monster\", with a \"-iudo\" ending appended simply for the rhyme.\n\nA three and six-headed \"zmei\" slain by the titular hero in \"Ivan Popyalov\" (. \"Ivan Cinders\". Afanasyev's tale #135) are substituted with six-, nine-, and twelve-headed Chuda-Iuda in the cognate tale #137 \"Ivan Bykovich\" (). The inference is that Chudo-Yudo must also be a dragon, despite the lack of the word serpent (\"zmei\") explicitly appearing in the latter tale. The six-, nine-, and twelve-headed Chuda-Yuda that appear out of the Black Sea are explicitly described as \"zmei\" in yet another cognate tale, #136 \"Storm-Bogatyr, Ivan the Cow's Son\" (). The Storm-Bogatyr is in possession of a magic sword (Sword Kladenets) but uses his battle club (or mace) to attack it.\n\nChudo-Yudo's heads have remarkable healing property and even if severed, they can be picked up and reattached with a stroke of its fiery finger, according to one of these tales; this has been compared to the regenerative power of the Lernaean hydra that grows its head back.\n\nThe terms \"smok\" (\"serpent\") and \"tsmok\" (\"sucker\") can signify a dragon, but also just an ordinary snake. There are Slavic folklore in which a snake (which is called \"smok\") when it reaches a certain age grows into a dragon (\"zmaj\", etc.). Similar lore is widespread across Slavic countries, as described below.\n\nThe folklore that an ancient snake grows into a dragon is fairly widespread in Slavic regions. This is also paralleled by similar lore in China.\n\nIn Bulgaria is a similar folk belief that the \"smok\", which starts out as a non-venomous snake, grows to become a \"zmei\" dragon after living 40 years. Or, if the body of a decapitated snake (\"zmiya\") was joined to a ox or buffalo horn, it grew into a lamia after just 40 days, according to Bulgarian folk tradition published by in the 19th century.\n\nThere are also among the East Slavic folk the tradition that a viper transforms into a dragon. In Ukrainian folklore the viper needs 7 years to metamorphosize into a dragon, while in Belorussian folklore the requisite time is 100 years, according to one comparison.\n\nThe weather-making dragon, \"ismeju\" (or \"zmeu\"), of Romanian Scholomance folklore is also locally believed to grow out of a snake which has lived for 9 years (belief found at \"Hatzeger Thal\" or Hațeg).\n\nLocally in Ukraine, around Lutsk, the rainbow is called \"tsmok\" (\"sucker\") which is said to be a tube that guzzles water from the sea and rivers and carries the moisture up into the clouds.\n\nThere is the notion (thought to be inspired by the tornado) of a slavic dragon that dips its tail into a river or lake and siphons up the water, ready to cause floods.\n\nIn Rumanian folklore, dragons are ridden by weather-controlling wizards called the Solomonari. The type of dragon they ride may be the \"zmeu\" or the \"balaur\", depending on the source.\n\nThe lamia and the hala (explained further below) are also generally perceived as weather dragons or demons.\n\nIn Bulgarian lore, the \"zmei\" is sometimes described as a scale-covered serpent-like creature with four legs and bat's wings, at other times as half-man, half-snake, with wings and a fish-like tail.\n\nIn Bulgaria, this \"zmei\" tends to be regarded as a benevolent guardian creature, while the \"lamya\" and \"hala\" were seen as detrimental towards humans.\n\nA favorite topic of folk songs was the male \"zmey\"-lover who may marry a woman and carry her to the underworld, or a female \"zmeitsa\" (zmeitza) who falls in love with a shepherd. When a \"zmei\" falls in love with a woman, she may \"pine, languish, become pale, neglect herself.. and generally act strangely\", and the victim stricken with the condition could only be cured by bathing in infusions of certain herbs, according to superstition.\n\nIn Serbia, there is the example of the epic song \"Tsaritsa Militsa i zmay od Yastreptsa\" () and its folktale version translated as \"The Tsarina Militza and the Zmay of Yastrebatz\".\n\nThere is a pan-Balkan notion that the \"zmei\" (known by various cognates) is a sort of \"guardian-spirit dragon\" against the \"evil\" types of dragon, given below. One explanation is that the Balkan \"zmej\" symbolized the patriotic dragon fighting the Turkish dragon, a way to vent the local population's frustration at not being able to overthrow the long-time Turkish rule.\n\nThe zmaj dragon in Serbian fairy tales are nevertheless have sinister roles in a number of instances. In the well-known tale \"A Pavilion Neither in the Sky nor on the Earth\" the youngest prince succeeds in killing the dragon (\"zmaj\") that guards the three princesses held captive.\n\nVuk Karadžić's collection of folktales have other examples. In \"The Golden Apple-tree and the Nine Peahens\", the dragon carries away the peahen maiden who is the hero's lover. In \"Baš Čelik\" the hero must contend with a dragon-king.\n\nThe or \"lamya\" (), derived from the Greek lamia, is also seen as a dragon-like creature in Bulgarian ethnic population, currently inhabiting Bulgaria, with equivalents in Macedonia (\"lamja\", \"lamna\"; ), and South-East Serbian areas (\"lamnia\" ).\n\nThe Bulgarian lamia is described as reptile- or lizard-like and covered with scales, with 3–9 heads which are like dog's heads with sharp teeth. It may also have sharp claws, webbed wings, and the scales may be yellow color.\n\nThe Bulgarian lamia dwells in the bottoms of the seas and lakes, or sometimes mountainous caverns, or tree holes and can stop the supply of water to the human population, demanding sacrificial offerings to undo its deed. The lamia, bringer of drought, was considered the adversary of St. Ilya (Elijah) or a benevolent zmei. \n\nIn the Bulgarian version of Saint George and the Dragon, the dragon was a \"lamia\". Bulgarian legends tell of how a hero (actually a double of St. George, denoted as \"George of the Flowers\", \"Cveten Gǝorgi\", ) cuts off the heads of the three- or multi-headed Lamia, and when the hero accomplishes its destruction and sever all its heads, \"rivers of fertility\" are said to flow. This song about St. George's fight with the lamia occurs in ritual spiritual verse supposed to be sung around St. George's day,\n\nOne of the versions collected by ethnologist begins: \" (George of the Flowers fared out / Going around his congregation /On the road he met the tawny/fallow lamia..)\". Another version collected by Marinov substitutes \"Yuda-Samodiva\" in the place of the lamia. Three rivers gush out of the dragons head-stumps: typically one of corn, one of red wine, and one of milk and honey. These benefitted the crop-growers, vineyard growers (winemakers), and the beekeepers and shepherds, respectively.\n\nThere is some overlap or conflation of the lamia and the \"hala\" (or \"halla\"), although the latter is usually conceieved of as a \"whirlwind\". Or it might be described as regional differences. The \"lamia\" in Eastern Bulgaria is the adversary of the benevolent zmei, and the \"hala\" or \"ala\" takes its place in Western Bulgaria.\n\nThis motif of hero against the evil dragon (lamia, ala/hala, or aždaja) is found more generally throughout the Balkan Slavic region. Sometimes this hero is a saint (usually St. George). And after the hero severs all its (three) heads, \"three rivers of wheat, milk, and wine\" flow out of the stumps.\n\nThe demon or creature known as \"hala\" (or ala), whose name derived from the Greek word for \"hail\" took the appearance of a dense mist or fog, or a black cloud. Hala was believed to be the cause of strong winds and whirlwind in Eastern Bulgaria, while the lamya was blamed as the perpetrator in Southwestern Bulgarian lore. In Western Bulgarian tradition, the \"halla\" itself was regarded as the whirlwind, which guarded clouds and contained the rain, but was also regarded as a type of dragon, alongside the folklore that the \"grass snake\" (\"smok\") was a crag-dwelling whirlwind.\n\nThese (\"h\")\"ala\" were also known in East and Central Serbia. Similar lore occur in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro.\n\nThe demon (\"h\")\"ala\" was also called by other names regionally, in some parts of Bulgaria they were known as \"aždarha\" () or \"ažder\" (), in Macedonian as \"aždaja\" or \"ažder\" (), in Serbian as \"aždaja\" ().\n\nThe word \"aždaja\" or ' is borrowed from Persian \"azdahā\" (), and has its origins in the Indo-Iranian mythology surrounding the dragon \"azidahā\". As an example, in some local Croatian icons, St. George is represented as slaying the aždaja and not a \"zmaj\".\n\nThe \"hala\" or \"aždaja\" correspond to the dragon known in South Serbia (Kosovo) and Albania as kulshedra (; ).\n\nA \"pozoj\" is a dragon of legends in Croatia. In Međimurje County, the Čakovec \"pozoj\" was said to dwell beneath the city, with its head under the church and tail under the town square, or vice versa, and it could only be gotten rid of by a \"grabancijaš\" (a \"wandering scholar\", glossed as a \"black [magic] student\"). \n\nThe \"pozoj\" is also known in Slovenia, and according to legend there is one living underneath Zagreb, causing an earthquake whenever it shrugs. Poet (1866) has published some tales concerning the pozoj in the \"Slovenski glasnik\" magazine, which also connected the creature to the \"črne škole dijak\" (\"black school student\"), which other Slovene sources call \"črnošolec\" (\"sorcerer's apprentice\"), and which some equate with a \"grabancijaš dijak\" \n\nDragons in Slovenia are generally negative in nature, and usually appear in relation with St. George. The Slovene god-hero Kresnik is known as a dragonslayer.\n\nThere are natural and man-made structures that have dragon lore attached to them. There are also representations in sculpture and painting. In iconography, Saint George and the Dragon is prominent in Slavic areas. The dragon is a common motif in heraldry, and the coat of arms of a number of cities or families depict dragons.\n\nThe Dragon Bridge () in Ljubljana, Slovenia depicts dragons associated with the city or said to be the city's guardians, and the city's coat of arms features a dragon (representing the one slain by Kresnik).\n\nThe coat of arms of Moscow also depicts a St George (symbolizing Christianity) killing the Dragon (symbolizing the Golden Horde).\n\nSome prehistoric structures, notably the Serpent's Wall near Kiev, have been associated with dragons as symbols of foreign peoples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47141114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47141114", "title": "Smithsonian Transcription Center", "text": "Smithsonian Transcription Center\n\nThe Smithsonian Transcription Center is a crowdsourcing transcription project that aims to assist with the preservation and digitization of handwritten material in the Smithsonian Institution. The Transcription Center cites five reasons why transcription matters: discovery, humanities research, scientific research, education, and readability. Collections available for transcription include such documents as scientist field notebooks, artist diaries, astronomy logbooks, botany and bumblebee specimens and certified currency proofs.\n\nThe Smithsonian Transcription Center began in June 2013 and spent approximately a year in a beta test phase. On 12 August 2014 the Transcription Center website was launched to the public. As well as transcribing, volunteers review the submitted work before it is sent for approval. The final transcription is then checked by Smithsonian staff and once accepted, both the original images of the work and the transcription are kept on line.\n\nThe Transcriptions Center has an open call for anyone wanting to join in on transcribing documents for their many projects. Researches, educators, history buffs, amateur social scientists, and citizens are welcome to volunteer to transcribe for any of the many projects. The Transcription Center hopes that it will engage the public by making the Smithsonian Institution collections accessible.\n\n"}
{"id": "17116592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17116592", "title": "Spunk Library", "text": "Spunk Library\n\nThe Spunk Library (also known as Spunk Press) was an anarchist Internet archive. The name \"spunk\" was chosen for the term's meaning in Swedish (\"anything we want it to mean\"), English (\"courage or spirit\"), and Australian (\"an attractive person\"), summarized by the website as \"nondescript, energetic, courageous and attractive\".\n\nAccording to anarchist librarian Chuck Munson, the library was begun as Spunk Press in 1992. The founding contributors – Ian Heavens, Jack Jansen, Andrew Flood, Iain McKay and \"Practical Anarchy\" editors Munson and Mikael Cardell – originally met via an online forum, namely Jansen's Anarchy Discussion email list. The Library was run by an editorial collective during the 1990s. It was not intended to replace print publishing, but rather served a shop window promoting anarchist book publishers, newspapers and journals.\n\nBy 1995, it was already the largest anarchist archive of published material catalogued on computer networks, though it faced a media assault accusing it of collaborating with terrorists such as the Red Army Faction, of providing instructions for bombmaking and of co-ordinating the “disruption of schools, looting of shops and attacks on multinational firms.” The Library remained largely inactive during the 2000s (decade), with the mainpage last being updated in March 2002.\n\nThe \"Rough Guide to the Internet\" described the Library as being \"organized neatly and with reassuring authority\". Chris Atton, writing in \"Alternative Media\" (2002) hailed the site as an \"advertisement for socially responsible anarchism with a significant intellectual pedigree\", remarking that \"[i]n a world where anarchism is still largely derided or maligned by the mass media, that is an important function\" and drawing a comparison to Infoshop.org.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3690578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3690578", "title": "Stanley Gibbons catalogue", "text": "Stanley Gibbons catalogue\n\nThe first Stanley Gibbons stamp catalogue was a penny price list issued in November 1865 and reissued at monthly intervals for the next 14 years. The company produces numerous catalogues covering different countries, regions and specialisms; many of them are reissued annually. The catalogues list all known adhesive postage stamp issues and include prices for used and unused stamps.\n\nUnlike other dealers' catalogues, Stanley Gibbons state that their catalogue is a retail price list. In other words, if they had that exact stamp in stock in the exact condition specified, the current catalogue price is the price that they would charge for it. This contrasts with most other catalogues which are produced by firms that do not sell stamps and therefore base their pricing on an average of market values in the country where the catalogue is published. In practice, the actual price charged by Stanley Gibbons for an individual stamp may be different from the catalogue price because the specimen for sale is of a different grade, the market conditions have changed since the catalogue was produced, the firm has a plentiful or restricted supply of that stamp, or for a variety of other reasons.\n\nThe range includes the following catalogues:\n\n\nAll are based on the same numbering system drawn from 'Stamps of the World', apart from the British specialised catalogues which have their own numbering system.\n"}
{"id": "12630993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12630993", "title": "The Fabulous Kangaroos", "text": "The Fabulous Kangaroos\n\nThe Fabulous Kangaroos was a professional wrestling tag team that existed in various forms from 1957 until 1983. The first incarnation of The Fabulous Kangaroos was formed when Italian Australian Al Costello teamed with Australia native Roy Heffernan and adopted an \"Ultra Australian\" gimmick complete with boomerangs, bush hats, and the song \"Waltzing Matilda\" as their entrance music. Costello and Heffernan are arguably the most famous version of The Kangaroos, regarded as one of the top tag teams to ever compete in professional wrestling, and are often credited with popularizing tag team wrestling in the late 1950s and 1960s.\n\nLater versions of The Kangaroos saw Al Costello team with Ray St. Clair in 1967, and then with Don Kent from 1968 until 1974. Don Kent went on to team with Bruno Bekkar, and later Johnny Heffernan (a storyline cousin of Roy Heffernan) to keep The Fabulous Kangaroos name alive until 1983.\n\nThe Fabulous Kangaroos made their last appearance in 1983, but almost a decade later, the then 72-year-old Al Costello managed a team known as \"The New Fabulous Kangaroos\" in the American Independent circuit. The New Fabulous Kangaroos consisted of little known wrestlers Mickey Doyle, Denny Kass and Al Snow; of the three, only Snow went on to national and international recognition.\n\nBoth Costello and Heffernan died before The Kangaroos were honored as the first tag team to ever be inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame in 2003, which started a tradition of inducting a new team every year.\n\n\"The Fabulous Kangaroos\" were the brainchild of Al Costello, who had spent the first 18 years of his wrestling career as a fairly unsuccessful singles competitor. In 1956, Costello mentioned his idea of an \"Ultra Australian\" tag team to fellow wrestler, and future promoter, Joe Blanchard. Blanchard happened to be a good friend of Roy Heffernan, who had previously trained with Costello and became his choice for a partner. Costello and Heffernan made their debut as The Fabulous Kangaroos on 3 May 1957, for Stu Hart’s Stampede Wrestling promotion of Canada, in a match against Maurice LaPointe and Tony Baillargeon. Only weeks after making their debut, The Kangaroos were working with the top tag teams of the promotion.\n\nAfter working in Stampede for a while The Fabulous Kangaroos started to travel across the United States, headlining shows wherever they went due to their ability to rile up crowds with their heel (bad guy) tactics. On one occasion in August 1958, The Kangaroos, or \"Kangaroo Men\" as they were billed, nearly caused a riot in Madison Square Garden during a match against Antonino Rocca and Miguel Pérez; the fans began to throw fruit and stones at them. After the match ended without a decisive winner, the promoters stepped in, turned up the arena lights, and played the National Anthem to stop a potential riot. This was a common tactic used at the time by the New York promoters to prevent riots and help the heels leave the arena unharmed. Later that year, Costello and Heffernan started working for Dory Funk’s NWA Western States promotion based in Amarillo, Texas. Here, The Kangaroos won their first title as a team when they defeated Pepper Gomez and El Medico to win the Texas version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship on 17 November 1958. Their first title reign was short lived, however, as Pepper Gomez and Rito Romero defeated them to regain the titles two weeks later.\n\nThe following year, The Fabulous Kangaroos won the main tag team titles in NWA New Mexico, as well as the Texas version of the NWA International Tag Team Championship. In 1960 the Kangaroos moved on to New York, where they worked for Capitol Wrestling (predecessor to the modern-day WWE). On 21 July 1960 The Fabulous Kangaroos defeated Red and Lou Bastien to claim the North East version of the NWA United States Tag Team Championship (which was later known as the WWWF United States Tag Team Championship). The Bastien brothers sought revenge and regained the gold during a rematch on 8 August 1960. This time, the Bastiens' title reign only lasted 16 days when The Fabulous Kangaroos beat them again in Washington, D.C. to become two-time United States champions. Their second tenure as champions lasted almost three months, before they were defeated by Johnny Valentine and Buddy Rogers on 19 November 1960. Costello and Heffernan won the titles for a third time only a week later and carried the gold into 1961. On 11 January 1962, The Kangaroos third title reign ended when they lost to the team of Johnny Valentine and Bob Ellis. This third reign is the longest reign with this championship by any team. It was also the longest reign by any team with any tag team championship in WWF/WWWF history until exceeded by WWF World Tag Team Champions Demolition on May 12, 1989. In 2016, the Kangaroos' reign was pushed down into third place by The New Day's reign with the WWE Raw Tag Team Championship.\n\nAs was common in their day, The Kangaroos began to move around between territories to avoid overexposure. The team arrived in Championship Wrestling from Florida billed as NWA Florida United States Tag Team Champions. It was a tag team title they never technically won, but were instead awarded by the promoter. The Kangaroos stayed in Florida, defending against all challengers until the duo of Eddie Graham and Dick Steinborn took the United States titles from them in a match on 1 November 1961. In 1962, The Kangaroos once again traveled across the United States, working for the Midwest Wrestling Association of Ohio where they held the Ohio version of the NWA United States tag team title. They also toured Japan with the Japan Wrestling Association and were the first to hold the Japanese version of the NWA International Tag Team Championship. In 1964, Costello and Heffernan made their west coast debut, working in Los Angeles, California for the World Wrestling Association (WWA) where they beat Édouard Carpentier and Ernie Ladd for the WWA World Tag Team Championship. The Kangaroos held the titles for three months before losing them to the Torres brothers (Alberto and Ramon) on 28 April 1964.\n\nThe Kangaroos never forgot their roots, and continued to work in Canada off and on through the years; in addition to Stampede Wrestling, the team also worked for NWA All-Star Wrestling based in Vancouver, British Columbia. While working for All-Star Wrestling, The Kangaroos were involved in a heated storyline with Don Leo Jonathan and Roy McClarty that sold out arenas all across the territory. On 25 May 1964 The Kangaroos won the Vancouver version of the NWA Canadian Tag Team Championship, and immediately had to fend off the challenges of Jonathan and McClarty. During one infamous match in Winnipeg, The Kangaroos made Stan Stasiak an \"honorary Kangaroo\" for the night (complete with bush hat and all) for a six-man tag team match against Jonathan, McClarty and Karl Gotch. During the match The Kangaroos' cheating tactics aggravated the crowd so much that the fans threw chairs at the team. The Kangaroos attempted to hide under the ring to escape the flying chairs, but rabid fans tried to light the ring apron on fire to \"smoke out\" The Kangaroos. Peace was restored before anyone got seriously hurt and Jonathan and McClarty defeated The Kangaroos for the Canadian Tag Team titles, only to lose them back to the team from \"Down Under\" less than a month later. The Fabulous Kangaroos held the Canadian Tag team titles a total of four times while working for All-Star wrestling, losing them for the final time on 17 May 1965 to the team of Do Leo Jonathan and Jim Hardy. For the better part of a year The Kangaroos had been double champions, holding both the Canadian Tag Team titles and the All-Star version of the NWA International Tag Team titles.\n\nTheir time in NWA All-Star Wrestling was the last time the original Kangaroos teamed together. In June 1965, The Kangaroos lost to Don Leo Jonathan and Jim Hardy, and then split up. Heffernan had left Australia to tour the world in 1953 and wanted to return to his homeland, while Costello was determined to remain in the United States for a while longer.\n\nIn 1967, after having wrestled with other partners, including a stint as The Internationals with Karl Von Brauner, Costello decided that he wanted to reform The Fabulous Kangaroos. He got in touch with a friend from Great Britain, Tinker Todd, and asked him to be his new partner and reform The Fabulous Kangaroos. Todd agreed, taking the name \"Ray St. Clair\" and adopting an \"Australian\" persona. George \"Crybaby\" Cannon had managed Costello and Von Brauner when they wrestled as The Internationals, and he was brought in to be The Kangaroos new manager. Not long after Costello and St. Clair hit the circuit, they captured both gold and the hatred of the crowd, just like the original Kangaroos. A couple of months after reforming, Costello and St. Clair won the NWA Detroit version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship from Fred Curry and Billy Red Lyons, but lost the titles to Fred Curry and Dan Miller a few weeks later. Costello and St. Clair showed the same gift for riling up the fans as Costello and Heffernan had and even caused their own share of riots. One particular event in Cincinnati, Ohio saw the predominantly African American crowd start a riot after The Kangaroos spat in the eye of the African American Bobo Brazil during a match. The crowd rushed towards the ring when a fan fell from the balcony, causing a diversion that enabled Costello and St. Clair to escape the ring and get back to their dressing room. When fans started to break down the door to the dressing room, The Kangaroos ducked out the back, ran down an alley and hid in a half full dumpster overnight. The next morning when The Kangaroos returned to their car, they found all four tires slashed. Despite the success of the new version of The Fabulous Kangaroos, the Costello / St. Ray team did not last more than six tumultuous months. St. Clair missed his native Britain and was suffering from a debilitating knee injury that meant he had to retire from wrestling altogether.\n\nCostello was not ready to give up on The Fabulous Kangaroos concept after St. Clair retired, and a few months later he found a new man to don the bush hat: Don Kent. Kent, who was from Michigan, adopted the Ultra-Australian gimmick (but retained his American accent) and the two formed the third overall and second most well-known version of the Fabulous Kangaroos. Costello and Kent continued in a tradition that was reminiscent of the original Kangaroos; when a federation needed a new tag team title, the Kangaroos were brought in and acknowledged as champions on arrival instead of holding a tournament to determine the champions. In 1967, the Japanese federation \"International Wrestling Enterprise\" (IWE) brought the Kangaroos in as the first Trans-World Wrestling Alliance World Tag Team Champions. They held this title until 10 January 1968 when IWE mainstays Toyonobori and Thunder Sugiyama beat them for the gold.\n\nTheir time in Japan was only the first of many international tours for these third generation Kangaroos; they worked all over Asia as well as in Costello's homeland of Australia. In 1969, the Kangaroos wrestled for the newly created Eastern Sports Association (ESA) out of Halifax, Nova Scotia, where they were once again recognized as champions on their arrival, becoming the inaugural holders of the ESA International Tag Team Championship. On 5 August 1969, the Kangaroos dropped the titles to Eastern Sports Association mainstays The Beast and Rudy Kay. In 1970, they joined Dick the Bruiser’s World Wrestling Association (WWA), where they competed regularly for nearly two years. On 26 December 1970 Costello and Kent defeated WWA World Tag Team Champions Dick the Bruiser and Bill Miller to claim the tag titles. The Kangaroos used every dirty tactic to hold on to the gold for six months before losing the titles to Wilbur Snyder and Moose Cholak. On 18 June 1971, the Kangaroos regained the titles, and held them for just over two months before Wilbur Snyder and Paul Christy beat them for their straps. After leaving the WWA, Costello and Kent made a few appearances in New York for the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF), a promotion the original Fabulous Kangaroos (Al Costello and Roy Hefferman) had previously worked for under the company's former name, Capitol Wrestling. In one of their headline appearances at Madison Square Garden, the Kangaroos wrestled to a 45-minute time limit draw against Terry and Dory Funk, Sr..\n\nThe Kangaroos were not only stars in the wrestling world, they also made a series of popular \"celebrity baseball\" appearances in 1971–1972. At one celebrity all-star game in Three Rivers Stadium, Pittsburgh, PA, the Kangaroos became the stars of the celebrity team by going 7 for 8 collectively and entertaining the fans with their horseplay and comedy antics.\n\nOn 18 December 1971, The Fabulous Kangaroos defeated Ben Justice and the Stomper in the tournament finals for the new Detroit version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship. The Kangaroos worked for NWA Detroit for most of 1971, defending the gold until Justice and the Stomper won the titles in July 1972. By the end of 1972, the Kangaroos began working for Nick Gulas’ NWA Mid-America promotion, based in the Southern United States, a promotion that Don Kent had worked for before becoming a Kangaroo. On 1 February 1973, the Kangaroos defeated \"The Heavenly Bodies\" (Don and Al Green; not to be confused with the 1990s team of the same name) to add yet another version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship, the Mid-America version, to their long list of title accomplishments. The Kangaroos held that title three times between February and 22 September 1973, when they lost to the team of Lorenzo Parente and Randy Curtis. During 1973 George Cannon was replaced as the Kangaroos manager by \"Sir\" Dudley Clements.\n\nAfter a match in the Cincinnati Gardens, an enraged fan took a fire extinguisher off the wall and threw it at Costello and Kent from the balcony of the Gardens. The extinguisher hit Costello in the hip, damaging it so much that he needed hip replacement surgery later that year. The fan was arrested, served 15 days in jail, and fined $50 for damaging the fire extinguisher. The hip injury meant that Costello was unable to compete and The Fabulous Kangaroos split up once again. Don Kent returned to NWA Mid-America to work as a singles wrestler, while Costello had a full hip replacement, and was forced to retire from active competition. In 1975, Costello surprised everyone by returning to professional wrestling as the manager of a team known as \"The Love Brothers\" (Hartford and Reggie Love). He actually stepped into the ring on occasion as part of special six-man tag team matches.\n\nAfter recovering from his hip surgery, Costello returned to active competition at the age of 56, teaming up with Tony Charles to form yet another version of The Fabulous Kangaroos. The team defeated Dominic DeNucci and Chris Markoff to win the Detroit version of the NWA World Tag Team title, the same title that Costello and Kent had previously held. The Kangaroos title run was short, however, and they lost their gold to \"Crazy\" Luke Graham and Ripper Collins. In 1977 Tony Charles was replaced by Don Kent and the two reunited for a tour of Puerto Rico with the World Wrestling Council (WWC). In Puerto Rico, the Kangaroos arrived billed as the WWC World Tag Team Champions, once more to give a newly created title legitimacy. They dropped the titles to Carlos Colón and Jose Rivera on 12 March 1977. The Kangaroos remained in the WWC till 1978, chasing, but never regaining the WWC World Tag Team Championship. After their tour in Puerto Rico ended, Don Kent returned to singles wrestling, and Costello refocused on managing.\n\nIn 1981, Don Kent donned the bush hat and picked up the boomerang once more after not having worked as a Kangaroo since 1974, except for the short run in 1977. Costello asked Kent to team up with Bruno Bekkar, who was mostly known from working in his native New Zealand and Australia. Kent and Bekkar worked a tour for the WWC while Costello served as their manager. The team won the WWC North American Tag Team titles from Jack and Jerry Brisco on 22 October 1981. They then lost the titles to Invader I and Super Gladiator but quickly gained them back before dropping the titles for good to Invader and Gladiator on 26 January 1982. The Kent and Bekkar team only lasted through one tour of the Caribbean, after which Bruno Bekkar returned to Australia and New Zealand to work for the local promotions there.\n\nAfter Bekkar went back to Australia, Kent found a new partner to create yet another version of the Fabulous Kangaroos that turned out to be the last incarnation of the team. In mid 1982, Kent teamed up with Lutte Internationale mainstay Bob Della Serra, who took the wrestling name \"Johnny Heffernan\" (or \"Bobby Heffernan\" at times) - a storyline cousin of Roy Heffernan. The team ended Terry and Dory Funk, Jr.'s year and a half run with the WWC World Tag Team championship on 1 May 1982. Kent and Heffernan held the gold for less than two months before losing the WWC World Tag Team titles to Invader I and Pierre Martel. After a tour in Puerto Rico, Costello Kent and Heffernan returned to work for Championship Wrestling from Florida (CWF), a promotion the Kangaroos last worked for in 1962. On 5 January 1983, the Kangaroos defeated Barry Windham and Ron Bass to win the NWA Florida Global Tag Team Championship. They held the titles four times between January and 13 April 1983, losing to and winning titles from such teams as Terry Allen and Scott McGhee, Terry Allen and The Midnight Rider, and Terry Allen and Brad Armstrong. The final storyline involving The Fabulous Kangaroos saw Al Costello bring in J.J. Dillon to act as his short term replacement while he was \"away on business\". When Costello returned from his business trip, Dillon (kayfabe) refused to give up the Kangaroos contracts and was backed up by both Kent and Heffernan. The angle was designed to write Al Costello out of The Fabulous Kangaroos' storyline, and allow him to retire from wrestling altogether. Not long after Costello retired, Kent and Della Serra went their separate ways. Don Kent retired in 1986, but made guest appearances in the ring from time to time as late as 1992.\n\nAfter retiring from wrestling, Al Costello became the head of security at College Harbor, Florida. In 1992, at the age of 71, Costello retired from his job in Florida and began teaching wrestling. He also started to manage \"The New Fabulous Kangaroos\" in 1993 consisting of Mickey Doley and Denny Kass who worked for \"Motor City Wrestling\" (MCW). By the fall of 1993 Mickey Doyle had been replaced by a young wrestler by the name of Al Snow, and with Costello's help The New Fabulous Kangaroos defeated \"Canadian Lighting\" (Otis Apollo and \"Irish\" Bobby Clancy) on 29 December 1993 to win the MCW Tag Team Championship. On 14 May 1994, after Al Snow had started working for the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), Kass and Snow defeated Canadian Lighting to win the Border City Wrestling (BCW) Can-Am Tag Team Championship, unifying the two tag team championships. A week later, The New Fabulous Kangaroos lost both sets of titles to Scott D'Amore and \"Irish\" Bobby Clancy. After losing the unified MCW/BCW Tag Team championships, The New Kangaroos split up. Snow focused on his WWF career, while Costello retired for good.\n\nThe Fabulous Kangaroos are considered by many in the wrestling world as one of the best tag-teams in the history of wrestling. In fact, many people in the past held the mistaken belief that The Fabulous Kangaroos invented tag team wrestling, which was not true since tag team wrestling had been seen as early as 1936. The reason for this belief lies in the fact that The Kangaroos were one of the first teams to popularize tag team wrestling, and because tag teaming was often referred to as \"Australian rules\" or \"Australian tag team\". The Kangaroos themselves were not slow to play off this belief, often claiming (kayfabe) that they were such a well coordinated tag team because \"Amateur team wrestling was very popular in Australia\". The term \"Australian rules\" had been coined long before 1957 debut of The Kangaroos. Records indicate that tag team wrestling was already being referred to as \"Australian rules\" already in the mid-1940s. The Fabulous Kangaroos were among the first people in wrestling to play up the sports entertainment elements in professional wrestling; beyond being talented wrestlers, Costello especially was also very good at playing up their characters. The Kangaroos showed their \"advertising\" skills through promotional literature, which stated that The Fabulous Kangaroos had \"fashioned a razor-edged aluminum boomerang to cut the jugular of a Kodiak bear from afar\". They also frequently threw cardboard boomerangs with their name and pictures on them into the crowd as they walked to the ring. The team carried a huge Australian banner with the name \"The Fabulous Kangaroos\" on it as part of their entrance rituals as well.\n\nRoy Heffernan died on 24 September 1992 in his home in Sydney, Australia from a heart attack. Don Kent died on 14 June 1993 after a long battle with Leukemia. On 22 January 2000, the last of the original Fabulous Kangaroos died. Costello had been suffering from pneumonia, and was diagnosed with heart problems, the combination of which took his life at age 80.\n\nOnly Bruno Bekkar and Johnny Heffernan remain alive, with managers Red Berry, George Cannon and Dudley Clement having passed on as well. Ray St. Clair, whose birth name was Ramon Napolitano, died on 14 July 2013.\n\nIn 2003, the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame inducted Al Costello and Roy Heffernan collectively as The Fabulous Kangaroos, the first tag team to be inducted into the Hall of Fame. Since that time, the Hall of Fame has honored other tag teams, but The Fabulous Kangaroos were given the honor of being the first. In the tradition of The Kangaroos, they were \"billed as champions on arrival\" one last time. In 2013, Costello and Heffernan was inducted into the NWA Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41074841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074841", "title": "The Great Big Book of Horrible Things", "text": "The Great Big Book of Horrible Things\n\nThe Great Big Book of Horrible Things: The Definitive Chronicle of History’s 100 Worst Atrocities is a popular history book by Matthew White, an independent scholar and self-described atrocitologist. The book provides a ranking of the hundred worst atrocities of mankind based on the number of deaths.\n\nMatthew White, a self-described atrocitologist and a librarian at the federal courthouse in Richmond, Virginia, wrote the book in 2011. He compiled his list of hundred worst atrocities without any degree or formal training in history or statistics. However, his statistics have been used as source by many authors, including in 377 books and 183 scholarly articles. White previously administered the \"Historical Atlas of the 20th Century\" on his own website, and became interested in the subject due to constant arguments in cyberspace about who was actually responsible for various atrocities throughout history. \n\nThe foreword of the book was written by psychologist Steven Pinker. After the foreword the book chronologically lists the hundred atrocities. Some of these are the Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia, An Lushan Rebellion, and World War II.\n\nWhite's methodology for creating the list was gathering all available data on atrocities and attempting to discern consensus estimates for each one's death tolls. His focus is on armed conflict, with famine and disease relating to such conflict counting for the statistics, while natural disasters and economic events do not. White notes that there is no atrocity for which the statistics can be agreed upon worldwide.\n\nOne of White's conclusions is that no one system of government is obviously more murderous, and anarchy can be worst of all. He furthermore claims that governments don't kill people, rather people kill people. Another conclusion is that chaos is more deadly than tyranny.\n\nThe book was first published in hardcover by W. W. Norton & Company in November 2011. The paperback was published by W. W. Norton in May 2013 under the new title Atrocities: The 100 Deadliest Episodes in Human History. The UK edition (Canongate Books, 20 Oct 2011) is entitled Atrocitology: Humanity's 100 Deadliest Achievements. It has been translated into Italian, Japanese, Portuguese and Spanish.\n\nSteven Pinker credits White with creating \"the most comprehensive, disinterested and statistically nuanced estimates available\". He does however say that numbers provided by White are \"at the high end of the range\". He praised the methodological standards of White and the transparency of sources. Charles S. Maier, a professor at Harvard University, says that \"these figures are notoriously elusive\" and that White \"seems to have tried to get the best figures he could\". He added that most historians feel ashamed about doing this kind of raw exercise, adding \"here’s a guy who hasn’t been afraid to get his hands dirty\". Ben Kiernan, director of the Genocide Studies Program at Yale University commented that \"averaging guesses alongside more precise counts can be misleading\". Randolph Roth, co-director of the Historical Violence Database at Ohio State University, said that it is difficult to make a quantitative analysis of an event while not knowing about the qualitative side of the context. He praised White's effort to look at the big picture, while adding \"it’s going to be hard for many historians to read this book and look at that death toll for Genghis Khan, that 40 million, and not have a sinking feeling\".\n\nRudolph Rummel, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Hawaii, disagrees with White on the extent of democide present in the 20th century. He calls White's statistics \"not reliable\", and claims that Stalin killed 61 million people, rather than the 20 million mentioned in the book by White. He insisted that the difference in numbers is \"a profound statement on the nature of Communism\".\n\nJennifer Schuessler of \"The New York Times\" praised the \"stylishly lurid graphics and goofy asides\". James Hannaham of \"The Village Voice\" stated that the book might start controversy. He picked the example of slavery, saying that White claimed it was nearly eradicated, which he argues is not true if human trafficking is accounted for. He does compliment the style of writing: \"even reading this world bummer with a grain of salt, you can't resist White's witty prose or put the damned thing down\". Bill Blakemore of \"ABC News\" praised the elegant use of humor in the book, furthermore calling it a \"fascinating, new, big and easy-to-read reference book\". He called the style of writing \"crystal clear\" and said that \"White’s list of the 100 Deadliest Atrocities is full of surprises\". Randy Dotinga of \"The Christian Science Monitor\" said of the book that \"despite being a kind of encyclopedia of evil, it actually manages to be a fascinating read thanks to White's keen grasp of history and his wry take on the villains of the past\".\n\n"}
{"id": "287659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287659", "title": "Thomas Guide", "text": "Thomas Guide\n\nThomas Guides were a local icon in Southern California for decades, with many companies including the Thomas Guide map grid information for their locations in Yellow Pages listings and other advertisements.\n\nThomas Bros. Maps, the publishers of the \"Thomas Guide, \" previously known as \"Popular Street Atlas\", \"Street Guide\", and \"Popular Atlas\", was started in Oakland, California, in 1915 by cartographer George Coupland Thomas and his two brothers, who were business partners. Early publications were detailed block maps, bird eye view of communities, road & highway maps, and what would be generally referred as generalized tourist maps.\n\nThe company relocated its headquarters to Los Angeles in 1940. The company had grown to publish street maps of cities in several Western states; these maps were sold in fold-out, card stock covers. By the late 1940s, the company had added pocket-sized guidebooks of California and the city of San Francisco which included fold-out maps attached to the inner rear cover. The first street guides, which were initially pocket sized paperback booklets also began to appear at about this time, and were introduced for several counties in California, and one in Washington.\n\nAfter George Coupland Thomas died in 1955, the ownership was bought by Coupland Thomas's family lawyer Warren B. Wilson, brother of Lionel Wilson, the past mayor of Oakland, California.\n\nDuring the big California home development boom of the late 1970s Wilson moved the company to a newly built state-of-the-art designed building in the industrial park area of Irvine, California, in early 1980. For 40 years Wilson served as CEO and owner of Thomas Bros. Maps and was responsible for leading the company into the digital age. Starting in the 1990s Wilson hired many CEOs to run the company to give him more time traveling and studying his love of art.\n\nAfter conversion and completion of all of their pen and ink map atlases to digital format in the mid-1990s, map data became a significant part of TBM company sales. The company had large data contracts in the 1990s with the California CHP, large utilities, and many area cities and counties. The Thomas Brothers map database had a monopoly in the 1990s, since they had the best street address indexes in them, making them very good for address matching for businesses.\n\nBecause sales of its last produced guidebooks for Washington, D.C., and Virginia did not sell as expected and much money was lost on the website store design, the company was in major debt. The company also intended to conquer the East Coast, but failed to compete against existing mapmakers there. It was purchased by and became a wholly owned subsidiary of Rand McNally in 1999.\n\nThe company took a new radical direction in November 2003 and let go many of Thomas Brothers' most skilled cartographers and employees. The Rand McNally CEO announced all Irvine data edits would be outsourced to Bangalore, India. The remaining Irvine employees would send and manage the data to and from India and check the map work India editors did before publishing.\n\nAfter January 2004, many important things in the guides were cut to save money. The valued POI index was no longer updated. Thinner and cheaper paper was used in the map guides. The Irvine source department was closed and no customer corrections were taken or recorded. Many guides were no longer printed yearly. The book name was dropped to just Thomas Guide and colors changed to match Rand McNally colors and product line releases. The popular map store was closed at the Irvine building, which was the last TBM store to close after they shut the ones in San Francisco, downtown Los Angeles, and the South Coast Plaza Mall years earlier. The map guides still sell, but the famous digital map database is now outdated. Rand McNally now buys their map data and updates from the big map digital data companies like Teleatlas and Navteq. They overlay the new streets on their old database for publication.\n\nRand McNally/TBM no longer has any employees or customer service in California, after laying off the final Irvine headquarters employees in 2009.\n\nFrom the early days until the late 1970s, draftsmen, not cartographers, annually compiled and updated maps. Maps were drawn in various scales and sizes. As communities infilled and expanded during the post-war period, this presented problems because the early base maps did not account for the earth's curvature. Large wall maps were mosaics of smaller units making street alignment interesting. Easter-egg, or deliberate errors, were included on maps to help protect copyrights. These bugs usually were lakes, parks, or other fictitious landmarks; fictitious streets and trap streets, were avoided due to extensive use by emergency services.\n\nIn this new growth period of the early 1990s the company led the way and did a lot of new innovative things in the map industry. They were the first map company to start a map education foundation that trained teachers on geography and interesting map lessons and donated map materials to area schools. They were also the first map publishing company to set up a computer map database that could have sections checked out by cartographers, updated, and then checked back in to a live digital map library with date stamps to keep track of what was edited. They also solved many software digital mapping problems that other companies still use today. And they were the first map company to set up a digital map page and grid look-up system for the whole world. Many old-time TBM map book users can still tell you what page and grid they live on, even though they stopped using the map books years ago. \n\nThomas Guide atlases are sometimes referred to as a \"Thomas Brothers\" (for \"Thomas Bros. Maps\"). However, \"Thomas Guides\" are so commonly used in Southern California that governments, businesses, individuals and even emergency response agencies will often refer to a \"Thomas Guide\" page number and map grid to help specify a location.\n\nBusinesses often use the large \"Thomas Guide\" wall maps. One common use for the wall maps is for delivery businesses, such as a local pizza restaurant. In addition, custom versions of the guides and wall maps are produced for businesses and governments that include such things as census tracts, locations of government facilities, watershed boundaries, and political boundaries.\n\nThere are also CD-ROM digital editions of the \"Thomas Guide\" atlases available (Microsoft Windows only). In addition, the Thomas Brothers digital database can be licensed to companies and governments to use as a base map for geographical information systems applications.\n\nUpdated \"editions\" are released annually, although according to interviews with former employees responsible for product updates, actual map content for some titles is updated only every other year. (Product covers are updated every year, even if map content has not changed.) Folding map products are created as a derivative of the Thomas Guides, which carry the Rand McNally name, but mention that the content is from the Thomas Guides. Rand McNally also releases Thomas Guide-like Street Guides and traditional fold-out versions of maps covering regions of North America not covered by the Thomas Guides.\n\nA wide variety of products were produced for sales planning, dispatching, routing, real estate listings and territorial assignments. Besides the regular annual street atlases, they also produced wall maps, Zip Code guides, Rock Products Zones, and Census Tract editions.\n\nPopular Street Atlases (counties):\n\nStreet Guides (counties):\n\nTwo hundred copies are stored at the Central Library in downtown Los Angeles, and managed by map librarian Glen Creason.\n\nThomas Guides at Rand McNally store\n"}
{"id": "3591118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3591118", "title": "Wendell Phillips Garrison", "text": "Wendell Phillips Garrison\n\nWendell Phillips Garrison (1840–1907) was an American editor and author.\n\nHe was born at Cambridgeport, Massachusetts, a son of William Lloyd Garrison. He graduated from Harvard in 1861 and was literary editor of the \"Nation\" from 1865 to 1906.\n\nAs a young man, Garrison had adopted pacifist and anti-imperialist beliefs. He had assisted E. L. Godkin in establishing the magazine. Henry Villard, who merged the \"Nation\" with the \"New York Evening Post\", was Garrison's brother-in-law. Garrison also wrote several books, including \"What Mr. Darwin Saw\", an abridged and illustrated version of Darwin's \"The Voyage of the Beagle\" for children.\n\nW. P. Garrison contributed to periodicals, compiled \"Bedside Poetry: a Parents' Assistant\" (1887), and wrote:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55466103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55466103", "title": "Witching hour (supernatural)", "text": "Witching hour (supernatural)\n\nIn folklore, the witching hour or devil's hour is a time of night associated with supernatural events. Creatures such as witches, demons and ghosts are thought to appear and to be at their most powerful. Black magic is thought to be most effective at this time. In the Western Christian tradition, the hour between 3 and 4 a.m. was considered a period of peak supernatural activity, due to the absence of prayers in the canonical hours during this period. Women caught outside without sufficient reason during this time were sometimes executed on suspicion of witchcraft. The phrase \"witching hour\" was first recorded in 1835.\n\nPsychological literature suggests that apparitional experiences and sensed presences are most common between the hours of 2 and 4 a.m., corresponding with a 3 a.m. peak in the amount of melatonin in the body.\n\nMore recently, the hours between midnight and 2 a.m. have been considered the witching hour. \n\nThe term may be used colloquially to refer to any period of bad luck, or in which something bad is seen as having a greater likelihood of occurring.\n\n"}
