{"id": "39686399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39686399", "title": "AGSB University", "text": "AGSB University\n\nThe American Graduate School of Business (AGSB) is a non-profit, private business school located in Switzerland.\n\nAGSB University was established in September 1991 as a non-profit, private institution of higher education. The founding members recognized the needs of the existing student population and the educative demand for an American-paradigm offering undergraduate and graduate programs in business administration. A special emphasis on the existing cross-cultural commercial environment and the multilingual Swiss context is distinctive to AGSB's knowledge-based academic structure.\n\nAGSB offers English-language business education programs. Programs are classified at undergraduate and graduate level and include bachelor's, masters and doctoral degree programs in Business Administration (BSBA, MIBA and DBA).\n\nBradley C. Birkenfeld - Author of Lucifer’s Banker\nNikita Gryzunov - Founder Cafe Tres & Craft and Concept\n\n"}
{"id": "4234887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4234887", "title": "AP Computer Science", "text": "AP Computer Science\n\nIn the United States, Advanced Placement Computer Science is a suite of Advanced Placement courses and examinations covering areas of computer science. They are offered by the College Board to high school students as an opportunity to earn college credit for college-level courses. The suite consists of two current classes and one discontinued class.\n\nAP Computer Science was taught in Pascal for the 1984–1998 exams, in C++ for 1999–2003, and in Java since 2004.\n\nAP Computer Science Principles is an introductory course to computer science, \"with a focus on how computing powers the world\". It is designed as a parallel to AP Computer Science A, to emphasize computational thinking and fluency. It is meant to be the equivalent of a first-semester course in computer science.\n\nAP Computer Science Principles was introduced in the 2016–2017 school year.\n\nAP Computer Science A is a programming class. The course emphasizes object-oriented programming methodology, especially problem solving and algorithm development, plus an overview of data structures and abstraction. The AP Computer Science A exam tests students on their knowledge of Java.\n\nIt is meant to be the equivalent of a first-semester course in computer science. \n\nThe Microsoft-sponsored program Technology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS) aims to increase the number of students taking AP Computer Science classes.\n\nAP Computer Science AB included all the topics of AP Computer Science A, as well as a more formal and a more in-depth study of algorithms, data structures, and data abstraction. For example, binary trees were studied in AP Computer Science AB but not in AP Computer Science A. The use of recursive data structures and dynamically allocated structures were fundamental to AP Computer Science AB. \n\nAP Computer Science AB was equivalent to a full-year college course. \n\nDue to low numbers of students taking the exam, AP Computer Science AB was discontinued following the May 2009 exam administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "58671724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58671724", "title": "Abdur Rashid Talukdar Degree College", "text": "Abdur Rashid Talukdar Degree College\n\nAbdur Rashid Talukdar Degree College is a public college in Dashmina, Patuakhali, Barisal, Bangladesh. It was established in 1994. The college is affiliated with National University.\n\n"}
{"id": "3993703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3993703", "title": "Academic genealogy of theoretical physicists", "text": "Academic genealogy of theoretical physicists\n\nThe following is an academic genealogy of theoretical physicists and is constructed by following the pedigree of thesis advisors. If an advisor did not exist, or if the field of physics is unrelated, an academic genealogical link can be constructed by using the university from which the theoretical physicist graduated.\n\nAn academic genealogy tree lists the physicists' PhD (or in some cases BA/MA) date and school, if known. Nobel Prize winners are indicated by . If physicists are advised by mathematicians, their genealogy can be readily traced using the Mathematics Genealogy Project.\n\nFor the meaning of \"s.v.\", see here.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Max Planck, the Albert Einstein, the Lev Landau, and the Eugene Wigner academic genealogies ultimately lead to the Renaissance humanist Niccolò Leoniceno.\n\nThe Arnold Sommerfeld genealogy leads to Felix Klein and then to Otto Mencke \"via Gauss\" and Gottfried Leibniz. The Leibniz heritage, however, is due to the premature death of Klein's advisor, Julius Plücker, which forced a second supervisor for the final examination, namely Rudolf Lipschitz.\n\nThe Enrico Fermi and the Friedrich Hasenöhrl academic genealogies lead to Jurij Vega.\n\nThe Max Born academic genealogy leads to Carl Friedrich Gauss and then on to Otto Mencke and ultimately to Friedrich Leibniz, Gottfried Leibniz's father. The Léon Van Hove lineage stems from the Gottfried Leibniz one as well.\n\nAnother advisor line in continental Europe descends from Gottfried Leibniz via—among others—Poisson, Lagrange, the Bernoullis, and Euler. The Gottfried Leibniz lineage ultimately proceeds from the Heinrich von Langenstein one (the Heinrich von Langenstein lineage also includes Nicolaus Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, and Johannes Kepler).\n\nThe lineage of the two main American branches (the Henry Augustus Rowland branch and the Arthur Gordon Webster branch—see s.v.) proceeds \"via Hermann von Helmholtz\" from Gerard van Swieten—and his mentor Herman Boerhaave—and ultimately from Jacques Dubois and Jacques Lefèvre d'Étaples. The Ralph H. Fowler lineage also stems from the same line.\n\nIsaac Barrow was influenced by the work of Vincenzo Viviani, an assistant of Galileo Galilei.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11176371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11176371", "title": "Anna Grabka", "text": "Anna Grabka\n\nAnna Grabka (born 1961) is a Polish dancer, ballet teacher and choreographer.\n\nShe began to dance at the age 6 in her native town of Szczecin. At the age of 10 she began her professional Studies at the National Ballet School in Warsaw. At the age 11 she perform at the National Theatre (Teatr Wielki) in Warsaw the leading part of the small Klara in \"The Nutcracker\" (chor. Gennadij Ledyakh).\nBetween 1980-1985 she was member of the ballet company of the National Theatre in Warsaw as a principal soloist. In 1982 she won a silver medal in the Polish Ballet Competition.\n\nAt the same time, (1980–1984) she completed a course of study in ballet pedagogics at the music academy in Warsaw. In 2002 she completed a master's degree on the theme \"Pregnancy and Dance\". Since 2002 she has worked at the F. Chopin Music Academy in Warsaw.\n\nIn 1985 she joined The Hamburg Ballet in Germany, where she flourished as a principal soloist under the artistic direction of John Neumeier from 1987 until 2001 . She toured with the company, including appearances in New York in 1998 . She danced solo and principal roles in ballets by Friderick Ashton, George Balanchine, Maurice Béjart, August Bournonville, Jean Coralli/Jules Perrot, John Cranko, Mats Ek, William Forsythe, Kevin Haigen, Leonid Jacobson, Jiri Kilian, Serge Lifar, José Limón, Asaf Messerer, John Neumeier and Marius Petipa. In the 2001/02 season she danced as a guest soloist with The Hamburg Ballet and worked as a ballet mistress.\n\nIn Hamburg she worked with a number of ballet masters including Boris Akimov, Truman Finney, Kavin Haigen, Irina Jacobson, Charles Mudry, Anatoli Nisnevich and Ilse Wiedmann.\n\nSince 1997 she worked as a guest ballet mistress in a range of European ballet companies including Dance Company Thoss, Baviarien Ballet, English National Ballet, Northern Ballet Theatre, Royal Swedish Ballet, Finnish National Ballet, Het National and the Queensland Ballet in Brisbane.\n\nSince 2003 she has worked as ballet mistress and repetitor in the Royal Swedish Ballet.\n\nIn summer 2005 she took part in the choreology workshop by Prof. Roderyk Lange in Poznań, Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "162619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162619", "title": "Apprenticeship", "text": "Apprenticeship\n\nAn apprenticeship is a system of training a new generation of practitioners of a trade or profession with on-the-job training and often some accompanying study (classroom work and reading). Apprenticeship also enables practitioners to gain a license to practice in a regulated profession. Most of their training is done while working for an employer who helps the apprentices learn their trade or profession, in exchange for their continued labor for an agreed period after they have achieved measurable competencies. Apprenticeships typically last 3 to 7 years. People who successfully complete an apprenticeship reach the \"journeyman\" or professional certification level of competence.\n\nAlthough the formal boundaries and terminology of the apprentice/journeyman/master system often do not extend outside guilds and trade unions, the concept of on-the-job training leading to competence over a period of years is found in any field of skilled labor.\n\nIn early modern usage, the clipped form prentice was common.\n\nThe system of apprenticeship first developed in the later Middle Ages and came to be supervised by craft guilds and town governments. A master craftsman was entitled to employ young people as an inexpensive form of labour in exchange for providing food, lodging and formal training in the craft. Most apprentices were males, but female apprentices were found in crafts such as seamstress, tailor, cordwainer, baker and stationer. Apprentices usually began at ten to fifteen years of age, and would live in the master craftsman's household. Most apprentices aspired to becoming master craftsmen themselves on completion of their contract (usually a term of seven years), but some would spend time as a journeyman and a significant proportion would never acquire their own workshop.\n\nIn Coventry those completing seven-year apprenticeships with stuff merchants were entitled to become freemen of the city.\n\nSubsequently, governmental regulation and the licensing of technical colleges and vocational education formalized and bureaucratized the details of apprenticeship.\n\nAustralian Apprenticeships encompass all apprenticeships and traineeships. They cover all industry sectors in Australia and are used to achieve both 'entry-level' and career 'upskilling' objectives. There were 475,000 Australian Apprentices in-training as at 31 March 2012, an increase of 2.4% from the previous year. Australian Government employer and employee incentives may be applicable, while State and Territory Governments may provide public funding support for the training element of the initiative. Australian Apprenticeships combine time at work with formal training and can be full-time, part-time or school-based.\n\nAustralian Apprentice and Traineeship services are dedicated to promoting retention, therefore much effort is made to match applicants with the right apprenticeship or traineeship. This is done with the aid of aptitude tests, tips, and information on 'how to retain an apprentice or apprenticeship'.\n\nInformation and resources on potential apprenticeship and traineeship occupations are available in over sixty industries.\n\nThe distinction between the terms apprentices and trainees lies mainly around traditional trades and the time it takes to gain a qualification. The Australian government uses Australian Apprenticeships Centres to administer and facilitate Australian Apprenticeships so that funding can be disseminated to eligible businesses and apprentices and trainees and to support the whole process as it underpins the future skills of Australian industry. Australia also has a fairly unusual safety net in place for businesses and Australian Apprentices with its Group Training scheme. This is where businesses that are not able to employ the Australian Apprentice for the full period until they qualify, are able to lease or hire the Australian Apprentice from a Group Training Organisation. It is a safety net, because the Group Training Organisation is the employer and provides continuity of employment and training for the Australian Apprentice.\n\nIn addition to a safety net, Group Training Organisations (GTO) have other benefits such as additional support for both the Host employer and the trainee/apprentice through an industry consultant who visits regularly to make sure that the trainee/apprentice are fulfilling their work and training obligations with their Host employer. There is the additional benefit of the trainee/apprentice being employed by the GTO reducing the Payroll/Superannuation and other legislative requirements on the Host employer who pays as invoiced per agreement.\n\nApprenticeship training in Austria is organized in a dual education system: company-based training of apprentices is complemented by compulsory attendance of a part-time vocational school for apprentices (Berufsschule). It lasts two to four years – the duration varies among the 250 legally recognized apprenticeship trades.\n\nAbout 40 percent of all Austrian teenagers enter apprenticeship training upon completion of compulsory education (at age 15). This number has been stable since the 1950s.\n\nThe five most popular trades are: Retail Salesperson (5,000 people complete this apprenticeship per year), Clerk (3,500 / year), Car Mechanic (2,000 / year), Hairdresser (1,700 / year), Cook (1,600 / year). There are many smaller trades with small numbers of apprentices, like \"EDV-Systemtechniker\" (Sysadmin) which is completed by fewer than 100 people a year.\n\nThe Apprenticeship Leave Certificate provides the apprentice with access to two different vocational careers. On the one hand, it is a prerequisite for the admission to the Master Craftsman Exam and for qualification tests, and on the other hand it gives access to higher education via the TVE-Exam or the Higher Education Entrance Exam which are prerequisites for taking up studies at colleges, universities, \"Fachhochschulen\", post-secondary courses and post-secondary colleges.\n\nThe person responsible for overseeing the training inside the company is called \"Lehrherr\" or \"Ausbilder\". An Ausbilder must prove that he has the professional qualifications needed to educate another person, has no criminal record and is an otherwise-respectable person. The law states that \"the person wanting to educate a young apprentice must prove that he has an ethical way of living and the civic qualities of a good citizen\".\n\nIn the Czech Republic, the term \"vocational school\" (učiliště) can refer to the two, three or four years of secondary practical education. Apprenticeship Training is implemented under Education Act (školský zákon). Apprentices spend about 30–60% of their time in companies (sociální partneři školy) and the rest in formal education. Depending on the profession, they may work for two to three days a week in the company and then spend two or three days at a vocational school.\n\nIn Switzerland, after the end of compulsory schooling, two thirds of young people follow a vocational training. Ninety percent of them are in the dual education system.\n\nSwitzerland has an apprenticeship similarly to Germany and Austria. The educational system is ternar, which is basically dual education system with mandatory practical courses. The length of an apprenticeship can be 2, 3 or 4 years.\n\nApprenticeships with a length of 2 years are for persons with weaker school results. The certificate awarded after successfully completing a 2-year apprenticeship is called \"Eidgenössisches Berufsattest\" (EBA) in German and \"Certificato federale di formazione pratica\" (CFP) in Italian.\n\nApprenticeship with a length of 3 or 4 years are the most common ones. The certificate awarded after successfully completing a 3 or 4-year apprenticeship is called \"Certificat Fédérale de Capacité\" (), \"Eidgenössisches Fähigkeitszeugnis\" (EFZ) or \"Attestato federale di capacità\" (AFC).\n\nSome crafts, such as electrician, are educated in lengths of 3 and 4 years. In this case, an Electrician with 4 years apprenticeship gets more theoretical background than one with 3 years apprenticeship. Also, but that is easily lost in translation, the profession has a different name.\n\nEach of the over 300 nationwide defined vocational profiles has defined framework – conditions as length of education, theoretical and practical learning goals and certification conditions.\n\nTypically an apprenticeship is started at age of 15 and 18 after finishing general education. Some apprenticeships have a recommend or required age of 18, which obviously leads to a higher average age. There is formally no maximum age, however, for persons above 21 it is hard to find a company due to companies preferring younger ages due to the lower cost of labour.\n\nIn Canada, each province has its own apprenticeship program, which may be the only route into jobs within compulsory trades. In Canada, apprenticeships tend to be formalized for craft trades and technician level qualifications. At the completion of the provincial exam, they may write the Provincial Standard exam. British Columbia is one province that uses these exams as the provincial exam. This means a qualification for the province will satisfy the whole country. The inter-provincial exam questions are agreed upon by all provinces of the time. At the time there were only four (4) provinces, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Canada East ( now Ontario ), and Canada West ( now Quebec).\nIn France, apprenticeships also developed between the ninth and thirteenth centuries, with guilds structured around apprentices, journeymen and master craftsmen, continuing in this way until 1791, when the guilds were suppressed.\n\nThe first laws regarding apprenticeships were passed in 1851. From 1919, young people had to take 150 hours of theory and general lessons in their subject a year. This minimum training time rose to 360 hours a year in 1961, then 400 in 1986.\n\nThe first training centres for apprentices (\"centres de formation d'apprentis\", CFAs) appeared in 1961, and in 1971 apprenticeships were legally made part of professional training. In 1986 the age limit for beginning an apprenticeship was raised from 20 to 25. From 1987 the range of qualifications achieveable through an apprenticeship was widened to include the \"brevet professionnel\" (certificate of vocational aptitude), the \"bac professionnel\" (vocational baccalaureate diploma), the \"brevet de technicien supérieur\" (advanced technician's certificate), engineering diplomas, master's degree and more.\n\nOn January 18, 2005, President Jacques Chirac announced the introduction of a law on a programme for social cohesion comprising the three pillars of employment, housing and equal opportunities. The French government pledged to further develop apprenticeship as a path to success at school and to employment, based on its success: in 2005, 80% of young French people who had completed an apprenticeship entered employment. In France, the term apprenticeship often denotes manual labor but it also includes other jobs like secretary, manager, engineer, shop assistant... The plan aimed to raise the number of apprentices from 365,000 in 2005 to 500,000 in 2009. To achieve this aim, the government is, for example, granting tax relief for companies when they take on apprentices. (Since 1925 a tax has been levied to pay for apprenticeships.) The minister in charge of the campaign, Jean-Louis Borloo, also hoped to improve the image of apprenticeships with an information campaign, as they are often connected with academic failure at school and an ability to grasp only practical skills and not theory. After the civil unrest end of 2005, the government, led by prime minister Dominique de Villepin, announced a new law. Dubbed \"law on equality of chances\", it created the First Employment Contract as well as manual apprenticeship from as early as 14 years of age. From this age, students are allowed to quit the compulsory school system in order to quickly learn a vocation. This measure has long been a policy of conservative French political parties, and was met by tough opposition from trade unions and students.\n\nApprenticeships are part of Germany's dual education system, and as such form an integral part of many people's working life. Finding employment without having completed an apprenticeship is almost impossible. For some particular technical university professions, such as food technology, a completed apprenticeship is often recommended; for some, such as marine engineering it may even be mandatory.\n\nIn Germany, there are 342 recognized trades (\"Ausbildungsberufe\") where an apprenticeship can be completed. They include for example doctor's assistant, banker, dispensing optician, plumber or oven builder. The dual system means that apprentices spend about 50–70% of their time in companies and the rest in formal education. Depending on the profession, they may work for three to four days a week in the company and then spend one or two days at a vocational school (\"Berufsschule\"). This is usually the case for trade and craftspeople. For other professions, usually which require more theoretical learning, the working and school times take place blockwise e.g., in a 12–18 weeks interval. These \"Berufsschulen\" have been part of the education system since the 19th century.\n\nIn 2001, two-thirds of young people aged under 22 began an apprenticeship, and 78% of them completed it, meaning that approximately 51% of all young people under 22 have completed an apprenticeship. One in three companies offered apprenticeships in 2003, in 2004 the government signed a pledge with industrial unions that all companies except very small ones must take on apprentices.\n\nThe latent decrease of the German population due to low birth rates is now causing a lack of young people available to start an apprenticeship.\n\nAfter graduation from school at the age of fifteen to nineteen (depending on type of school), students start an apprenticeship in their chosen professions. Realschule and Gymnasium graduates usually have better chances for being accepted as an apprentice for sophisticated craft professions or apprenticeships in white-collar jobs in finance or administration. An apprenticeship takes between 2.5 and 3.5 years. Originally, at the beginning of the 20th century, less than 1% of German students attended the Gymnasium (the 8–9 year university-preparatory school) to obtain the Abitur graduation which was the only way to university back then. In the 1950s still only 5% of German youngsters entered university and in 1960 only 6% did. Due to the risen social wealth and the increased demand for academic professionals in Germany, about 24% of the youngsters entered college/university in 2000. Of those, who did not enter university many started an apprenticeship. The apprenticeships usually end a person's education by age 18–20, but also older apprentices are accepted by the employers under certain conditions. This is frequently the case for immigrants from countries without a compatible professional training system.\n\nIn 1969, a law (the \"Berufsbildungsgesetz\") was passed which regulated and unified the vocational training system and codified the shared responsibility of the state, the unions, associations and the chambers of trade and industry. The dual system was successful in both parts of the divided Germany. In the GDR, three-quarters of the working population had completed apprenticeships.\n\nThe precise skills and theory taught on German apprenticeships are strictly regulated. The employer is responsible for the entire education programme coordinated by the German chamber of commerce. Apprentices obtain a special apprenticeship contract until the end of the education programme. During the programme it is not allowed to assign the apprentice to regular employment and he is well protected from abrupt dismissal until the programme ends. The defined content and skill set of the apprentice profession must be fully provided and taught by the employer. The time taken is also regulated. Each profession takes a different time, usually between 24 and 36 months.\n\nThus, everyone who had completed an apprenticeship e.g., as an industrial manager (\"Industriekaufmann\") has learned the same skills and has attended the same courses in procurement and stocking up, controlling, staffing, accounting procedures, production planning, terms of trade and transport logistics and various other subjects.\nSomeone who has not taken this apprenticeship or did not pass the final examinations at the chamber of industry and commerce is not allowed to call himself an \"Industriekaufmann\". Most job titles are legally standardized and restricted. An employment in such function in any company would require this completed degree.\n\nThe rules and laws for the trade and craftwork apprentices such as mechanics, bakers, joiners, etc. are as strict as and even broader than for the business professions. The involved procedures, titles and traditions still strongly reflect the medieval origin of the system. Here, the average duration is about 36 months, some specialized crafts even take up to 42 months.\n\nAfter completion of the dual education, e.g., a baker is allowed to call himself a bakery journeyman (\"Bäckergeselle\"). After the apprenticeship the journeyman can enter the master's school (\"Meisterschule\") and continue his education at evening courses for 3–4 years or full-time for about one year. The graduation from the master's school leads to the title of a master craftsman (\"Meister\") of his profession, so e.g., a bakery master is entitled as \"Bäckermeister\". A master is officially entered in the local trade register, the craftspeople's roll (\"Handwerksrolle\"). A master craftsman is allowed to employ and to train new apprentices. In some mostly safety-related professions, e.g., that of electricians only a master is allowed to found his own company.\n\nTo employ and to educate apprentices requires a specific license. The AdA – \"Ausbildung der Ausbilder\" – \"Education of the Educators\" license needs to be acquired by a training at the chamber of industry and commerce.\n\nThe masters complete this license course within their own master's coursework. The training and examination of new masters is only possible for masters who have been working several years in their profession and who have been accepted by the chambers as a trainer and examiner.\n\nAcademic professionals, e.g., engineers, seeking this license need to complete the AdA during or after their university studies, usually by a one-year evening course.\n\nThe holder of the license is only allowed to train apprentices within his own field of expertise. For example, a mechanical engineer would be able to educate industrial mechanics, but not e.g., laboratory assistants or civil builders.\n\nWhen the apprenticeship is ended, the former apprentice now is considered a journeyman. He may choose to go on his journeyman years-travels.\n\nIn India, the Apprentices Act was enacted in 1961. It regulates the programme of training of apprentices in the industry so as to conform to the syllabi, period of training etc. as laid down by the Central Apprenticeship Council and to utilise fully the facilities available in industry for imparting practical training with a view to meeting the requirements of skilled manpower for industry.\n\nThe Apprentices Act enacted in 1961 and was implemented effectively in 1962. Initially, the Act envisaged training of trade apprentices. The Act was amended in 1973 to include training of graduate and diploma engineers as \"Graduate\" & \"Technician\" Apprentices. The Act was further amended in 1986 to bring within its purview the training of the 10+2 vocational stream as \"Technician (Vocational)\" Apprentices.\n\nOverall responsibility is with the Directorate General of Employment & Training (DGE&T) in the Union Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.\n\n\nIn Pakistan, the Apprenticeship Training is implemented under a National Apprenticeship Ordinance 1962 and Apprenticeship Rules 1966. It regulates apprenticeship programs in industry and a TVET institute for theoretical instructions. It is obligatory for industry having fifty or more workers in an apprenticeable trade to operate apprenticeship training in the industry. Entire cost of training is borne by industry including wages to apprentices. The provincial governments through Technical Education & Vocational Training Authorities (Punjab TEVTA, Sindh TEVTA, KP TEVTA, Balochistan TEVTA and AJK TEVTA) enforce implementation of apprenticeship.\n\nThe training period varies for different trades ranging from 1–4 years. As of 2015, more than 30,000 apprentices are being trained in 2,751 industries in 276 trades across Pakistan. This figure constitutes less than 10% of institution based Vocational Training i.e. more than 350 thousand annually.\n\nRecently, Government of Pakistan through National Vocational & Technical Training Commission (NAVTTC) has initiated to reform existing system of apprenticeship. Highlights of the modern apprenticeship system are:\n\n- Inclusion of services, agriculture and mining sector\n- Cost sharing by Industry and Government\n- Regulating and formalizing Informal Apprenticeships\n- Mainstream Apprenticeship Qualifications with National Vocational Qualifications Framework (Pakistan NVQF)\n- Increased participation of Female\n- Training Cost reimbursement (for those industries training more number of apprentices than the required)\n- Assessment and Certification of apprentices jointly by Industry – Chamber of Commerce & Industry – Government\n- Apprenticeship Management Committee (having representation of 40% employers, 20% workers and 40% Government officials)\n\nIn Turkey, apprenticeship has been part of the small business culture for centuries since the time of Seljuk Turks who claimed Anatolia as their homeland in the 11th century.\n\nThere are three levels of apprenticeship. The first level is the apprentice, i.e., the \"çırak\" in Turkish. The second level is pre-master which is called, \"kalfa\" in Turkish. The mastery level is called as \"usta\" and is the highest level of achievement. An 'usta' is eligible to take in and accept new 'ciraks' to train and bring them up. The training process usually starts when the small boy is of age 10–11 and becomes a full-grown master at the age of 20–25. Many years of hard work and disciplining under the authority of the master is the key to the young apprentice's education and learning process.\n\nIn Turkey today there are many vocational schools that train children to gain skills to learn a new profession. The student after graduation looks for a job at the nearest local marketplace usually under the authority of a master.\n\nApprenticeships have a long tradition in the United Kingdom, dating back to around the 12th century and flourishing by the 14th century. The parents or guardians of a minor would agree with a master craftsman or tradesman the conditions for an apprenticeship. This contract would then bind the youth for 5–9 years (e.g., from age 14 to 21). Apprentice's families would sometimes pay a \"premium\" or fee to the craftsman and the contract would usually be recorded in a written indenture. Modern apprenticeships range from craft to high status in professional practice in engineering, law, accounting, architecture, management consulting, and others.\n\nIn towns and cities with guilds, apprenticeship would often be subject to guild regulation, setting minimum terms of service, or limiting the number of apprentices that a master could train at any one time. Guilds also often kept records of who became an apprentice, and this would often provide a qualification for later becoming a freeman of a guild or a citizen of a city. Many youths would train in villages or communities that lacked guilds, however, so avoiding the impact of these regulations.\n\nIn the 16th century, the payment of a \"premium\" to the master was not at all common, but such fees became relatively common by the end of the 17th century, though they varied greatly from trade to trade. The payment of a one-off fee could be very difficult for some parents, limiting who was able to undertake apprenticeships. In the 18th-century, apprenticeship premiums were taxed, and the registers of the Stamp Duty that recorded tax payments mostly survive, showing that roughly one in ten teenage males served an apprenticeship for which they paid fees, and that the majority paid five to ten pounds to their master.\n\nIn theory no wage had to be paid to an apprentice since the technical training was provided in return for the labour given, and wages were illegal in some cities, such as London. However, it was usual to pay small sums to apprentices, sometimes with which to buy, or instead of, new clothes. By the 18th century regular payments, at least in the last two or three years of the apprentice's term, became usual and those who lived apart from their masters were frequently paid a regular wage. This was sometimes called the \"half-pay\" system or \"colting\", payments being made weekly or monthly to the apprentice or to his parents. In these cases, the apprentice often went home from Saturday night to Monday morning. This was the norm in the 19th century but this system had existed in some trades since the 16th century.\n\nIn 1563, the Statute of Artificers and Apprentices was passed to regulate and protect the apprenticeship system, forbidding anyone from practising a trade or craft without first serving a 7-year period as an apprentice to a master (though in practice Freemen's sons could negotiate shorter terms).\n\nFrom 1601, 'parish' apprenticeships under the Elizabethan Poor Law came to be used as a way of providing for poor, illegitimate and orphaned children of both sexes alongside the regular system of skilled apprenticeships, which tended to provide for boys from slightly more affluent backgrounds. These parish apprenticeships, which could be created with the assent of two Justices of the Peace, supplied apprentices for occupations of lower status such as farm labouring, brickmaking and menial household service.\n\nIn the early years of the Industrial Revolution entrepreneurs began to resist the restrictions of the apprenticeship system, and a legal ruling established that the Statute of Apprentices did not apply to trades that were not in existence when it was passed in 1563, thus excluding many new 18th century industries. In 1814 the requirement that a worker in a skilled trade needed to have served an apprenticeship was abolished.\n\nThe mainstay of training in industry has been the apprenticeship system (combining academic and practice), and the main concern has been to avoid skill shortages in traditionally skilled occupations and higher technician and engineering professionals, e.g., through the UK Industry Training Boards (ITBs) set up under the 1964 Act. The aims were to ensure an adequate supply of training at all levels; to improve the quality and quantity of training; and to share the costs of training among employers. The ITBs were empowered to publish training recommendations, which contained full details of the tasks to be learned, the syllabus to be followed, the standards to be reached and vocational courses to be followed. These were often accompanied by training manuals, which were in effect practitioners' guides to apprentice training, and some ITBs provide training in their own centres. The ITBs did much to formalise what could have been a haphazard training experience and greatly improved its quality. The years from the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s saw the highest levels of apprentice recruitment, yet even so, out of a school leaving cohort of about 750,000, only about 110,000 (mostly boys) became apprentices. The apprenticeship system aimed at highly developed craft and higher technician skills for an elite minority of the workforce, the majority of whom were trained in industries that declined rapidly from 1973 onwards, and by the 1980s it was clear that in manufacturing this decline was permanent.\n\nSince the 1950s, the UK high technology industry (Aerospace, Nuclear, Oil & Gas, Automotive, Telecommunications, Power Generation and Distribution etc.) trained its higher technicians and professional engineers via the traditional indentured apprenticeship system of learning – usually a 4–6 year process from age 16–21. There were 4 types of traditional apprenticeship: craft, technician, higher technician, and graduate. Craft, technician and higher technician apprenticeships usually took 4 to 5 years while a graduate apprenticeship was a short 2-year experience usually while at university or post graduate experience. Non-graduate technician apprenticeships were often referred to as \"technical apprenticeships\". The traditional apprenticeship framework in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s was designed to allow young people (from 16 years old) an alternative path to A Levels to achieve both an academic qualification (equivalent to today's level 4 or 5 NVQs) and competency-based skills for knowledge work. Often referred to as the \"Golden Age\" of work and employment for bright young people, the traditional technical apprenticeship framework was open to young people who had a minimum of 4 O Levels to enroll in an Ordinary National Certificate or Diploma (ONC, OND) or a City & Guilds engineering technician course. Apprentices could progress to the Higher National Certificate, Higher National Diploma (HNC, HND) or advanced City and Guilds course such as Full Technological Certification. Apprenticeship positions at elite companies often had hundreds of applications for a placement. Academic learning during an apprenticeship was achieved either via block release or day release at a local technical institute. An OND or HND was usually obtained via the block release approach whereby an apprentice would be released for periods of up to 3 months to study academic courses full-time and then return to the employer for applied work experience. For entrance into the higher technical engineering apprenticeships, O Levels had to include Mathematics, Physics, and English language. The academic level of subjects such as mathematics, physics, chemistry on ONC/OND, and some City & Guilds advanced technician courses, was equivalent to A level mathematics, physics and chemistry. The academic science subjects were based on applied science in subjects such as thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, mechanics of machines, dynamics and statics, electrical science and electronics. These are often referred to as the engineering sciences. HNC and HND were broadly equivalent to subjects in the first year of a bachelor's degree in engineering but not studied to the same intensity or mathematical depth. HNC was accepted as entrance into the first year of an engineering degree and high performance on an HND course could allow a student direct entry into the second year of a degree. Few apprentices followed this path since it would have meant 10–12 years in further and higher education. For the few that did follow this path they accomplished a solid foundation of competency-based work training via apprenticeship and attained a higher academic qualification at a university or Polytechnic combining both forms of education; vocational plus academic. During the 1970s, City and Guilds assumed responsibility for the administration of HNC and HND courses.\n\nThe City and Guilds of London Institute the forerunner of Imperial College engineering school has been offering vocational education through apprenticeships since the 1870s from basic craft skills (mechanic, hairdresser, chef, plumbing, carpentry, bricklaying, etc.) all the way up to qualifications equivalent to university master's degrees and doctorates. The City and Guilds diploma of fellowship is awarded to individuals who are nationally recognised through peer review as having achieved the very highest level in competency-based achievement. The first award of FCGI was approved by Council in December 1892 and awarded in 1893 to Mr H A Humphrey, Engineering Manager of the Refined Bicarbonate and Crystal Plant Departments of Brunner, Mond & Co. His award was for material improvements in the manufacture of bicarbonate of soda. The system of nomination was administered within Imperial College, with recommendations being passed to the Council of the Institute for approval. About 500–600 people have been awarded Fellowship.\n\nThe traditional apprenticeship framework's purpose was to provide a supply of young people seeking to enter work-based learning via apprenticeships by offering structured high-value learning and transferable skills and knowledge. Apprenticeship training was enabled by linking industry with local technical colleges and professional engineering institutions. The apprenticeship framework offered a clear pathway and competency outcomes that addressed the issues facing the industry sector and specific companies. This system was in place since the 1950s. The system provided young people with an alternative to staying in full-time education post- 16/18 to gain purely academic qualifications without work-based learning. The apprenticeship system of the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s provided the necessary preparation for young people to qualify as a Craft trade (Machinist, Toolmaker, Fitter, Plumber, Welder, Mechanic, Millwright etc.), or Technician (quality inspector, draughtsman, designer, planner, work study, programmer), or Technician Engineer (tool design, product design, methods, stress and structural analysis, machine design etc.) and enabled a path to a fully qualified Chartered Engineer in a specific discipline (Mechanical, Electrical, Civil, Aeronautical, Chemical, Building, Structural, Manufacturing etc.). The Chartered Engineer qualification was usually achieved aged 28 and above. Apprentices undertook a variety of job roles in numerous shop floor and office technical functions to assist the work of master craftsmen, technicians, engineers, and managers in the design, development, manufacture and maintenance of products and production systems.\n\nIt was possible for apprentices to progress from national certificates and diplomas to engineering degrees if they had the aptitude. The system allowed young people to find their level and still achieve milestones along the path from apprenticeship into higher education via a polytechnic or university. Though rare, it was possible for an apprentice to advance from vocational studies, to undergraduate degree, to graduate study and earn a master's degree or a PhD. The system was effective; industry was assured of a supply of practically educated and work-skilled staff, local technical colleges offered industry relevant courses that had a high measure of academic content and an apprentice was prepared for professional life or higher education by the age of 21. With the exception of advanced technology companies particularly in aerospace (BAE systems, Rolls-Royce, Bombardier) this system declined with the decline of general manufacturing industry in the UK.\n\nTraditional apprenticeships reached their lowest point in the 1980s: by that time, training programmes declined. The exception to this was in the high technology engineering areas of aerospace, chemicals, nuclear, automotive, power and energy systems where apprentices continued to served the structured four- to five-year programmes of both practical and academic study to qualify as engineering technician or Incorporate Engineer (engineering technologist) and go on to earn a master of engineering degree and qualify as a Chartered Engineer (UK); the UK gold standard engineering qualification. Engineering technicians and technologists undertook combined theory and practice typically for example at a technical college for one day and two evenings per week on a City & Guilds programme or Ordinary National Certificate / Higher National Certificate course. Becoming a chartered engineer via the apprenticeship route normally involved 10 – 12 years of academic and vocational training at a combination of an employer, college of further education and/or university. In 1986 National Vocational Qualifications (NVQs) commenced to stem a great fall in vocational training. By 1990, apprenticeship had reached an approximate low, at of 1% of total employment.\n\nIn 1994, the UK Government introduced Modern Apprenticeships (renamed Apprenticeships in England, Wales and Northern Ireland), based on frameworks today of the Sector Skills Councils. In 2009, the National Apprenticeship Service was founded to coordinate apprenticeships in England. Apprenticeship frameworks contain a number of separately certified elements:\n\nIn Scotland, Modern Apprenticeship Frameworks are approved by the Modern Apprenticeship Group (MAG) and it, with the support of the Scottish Government, has determined that from January 2010, all Frameworks submitted to it for approval, must have the mandatory elements credit rated for the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF).\n\nAs of 2009, there are over 180 apprenticeship frameworks. The current scheme extends beyond manufacturing and high technology industry to parts of the service sector with no apprenticeship tradition. In 2008, Creative & Cultural Skills, the Sector Skills Council, introduced a set of Creative Apprenticeships awarded by EDI. A freelance apprenticeship framework was also approved and uses freelance professionals to mentor freelance apprentices. The Freelance Apprenticeship was first written and proposed by Karen Akroyd (Access To Music) in 2008. In 2011, Freelance Music Apprenticeships are available in music colleges in Birmingham, Manchester and London. The Department of Education under its 2007–2010 name stated their intention to make apprenticeships a \"mainstream part of England's education system\".\n\nEmployers who offer apprenticeship places have an employment contract with their apprentices, but off-the-job training and assessment is wholly funded by the state for apprentices aged between 16-18 years. In England, Government only contributes 50% of the cost of training for apprentices aged 19-24 years. Apprenticeships at Level 3 or above for those aged 24 or over no longer receive state funding, although there is a state loan facility in place by which individuals or companies can cover the cost of study and assessment and repay the state by installments over an extended period at preferential rates of interest.\n\nGovernment funding agencies (in England, the Skills Funding Agency) contract with \"learning providers\" to deliver apprenticeships, and may accredit them as a National Skills Academy. These organisations provide off-the-job tuition and manage the bureaucratic workload associated with the apprenticeships. Providers are usually private training companies but might also be further education colleges, voluntary sector organisations, Chambers of Commerce or employers themselves.\n\nThe UK government has implemented a rigorous apprenticeship structure which in many ways resembles the traditional architecture of the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. There are three levels of apprenticeship available spanning 2–6 years of progression. It is possible for ambitious apprentices to progress from level 2 (intermediate) to level 7 ( master's degree) over many years of training and education. Learners start at a level which reflects their current qualifications and the opportunities available in the sector of interest:\n\nIntermediate Apprenticeship (Level 2; equivalent to five good GCSE passes): provides learners with the skills and qualifications for their chosen career and allow entry (if desired) to an Advanced Apprenticeship. To be accepted learners need to be enthusiastic, keen to learn and have a reasonable standard of education; most employers require applicants to have two or more GCSEs (A*-C), including English and Maths.\n\nAdvanced Apprenticeship (Level 3; equivalent to two A-level passes): to start this programme, learners should have five GCSEs (grade A*-C) or have completed an Intermediate Apprenticeship. This will provide them with the skills and qualifications needed for their career and allow entry (if desired) to a Higher Apprenticeship or degree level qualification. Advanced apprenticeships can last between two and four years.\n\nHigher Apprenticeship (Level 4/5; equivalent to a Foundation Degree): to start this programme, learners should have a Level 3 qualification (A-Levels, Advanced Diploma or International Baccalaureate) or have completed an Advanced Apprenticeship. Higher apprenticeships are designed for students who are aged 18 or over.\n\nDegree Apprenticeship (Level 5/6; achieve bachelor's degree) and (Level 7 Masters): to start this programme, learners should have a level 3/4 qualification (A-Levels, Advanced Diploma or International Baccalaureate) relevant to occupation or have completed an Advanced Apprenticeship also relevant to occupation. It differs from a 'Higher Apprenticeship' due to graduating with a bachelor's degree at an accredited university. Degree apprenticeships can last between two and four years.\n\nUnder the current UK system, commencing from 2013, groups of employers ('trailblazers') develop new apprenticeships, working together to design apprenticeship standards and assessment approaches. As at July 2015, there were 140 Trailblazer employer groups which had so far collectively delivered or were in the process of delivering over 350 apprenticeship standards.\n\nFrom April 2017 an Apprenticeship Levy has been in place to fund apprenticeships. Many UK public bodies are subject to a statutory target to employ an average of at least 2.3% of their staff as new start apprentices over the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2021, and to \"have regard\" to this target when planning their recruitment and career development activities.\n\nIn 2018 the Institute for apprenticeships IFA set out a new Apprenticeship standards development process as part of the ‘faster and better’ campaign. This campaign was launched after calls from trailer blazer to simplify the system. Johnathan Mitchell - IFA Deputy Director (Standards Development) set out the changes to the standards development process which includes a restructure and refresh of all forms and templates. In addition to new guidance, new intense workshops and generally more support to trailblazers. \n\nApprenticeship programs in the United States are regulated by the Smith–Hughes Act (1917), The National Industrial Recovery Act (1933), and National Apprenticeship Act, also known as the \"Fitzgerald Act.\"\n\nThe number of American apprentices has increased from 375,000 in 2014 to 500,000 in 2016, while the federal government intends to see 750,000 by 2019, particularly by expanding the apprenticeship model to include white-collar occupations such as information technology.\n\nIn the United States, education officials and nonprofit organizations who seek to emulate the apprenticeship system in other nations have created school to work education reforms. They seek to link academic education to careers. Some programs include job shadowing, watching a real worker for a short period of time, or actually spending significant time at a job at no or reduced pay that would otherwise be spent in academic classes or working at a local business. Some legislators raised the issue of child labor laws for unpaid labor or jobs with hazards.\n\nIn the United States, school to work programs usually occur only in high school. American high schools were introduced in the early 20th century to educate students of all ability and interests in one learning community rather than prepare a small number for college. Traditionally, American students are tracked within a wide choice of courses based on ability, with vocational courses (such as auto repair and carpentry) tending to be at the lower end of academic ability and trigonometry and pre-calculus at the upper end.\n\nAmerican education reformers have sought to end such tracking, which is seen as a barrier to opportunity. By contrast, the system studied by the NCEE (National Center on Education and the Economy) actually relies much more heavily on tracking. Education officials in the U.S., based largely on school redesign proposals by NCEE and other organizations, have chosen to use criterion-referenced tests that define one high standard that must be achieved by all students to receive a uniform diploma. American education policy under the \"No Child Left Behind Act\" has as an official goal the elimination of the achievement gap between populations. This has often led to the need for remedial classes in college.\n\nMany U.S. states now require passing a high school graduation examination to ensure that students across all ethnic, gender and income groups possess the same skills. In states such as Washington, critics have questioned whether this ensures success for all or just creates massive failure (as only half of all 10th graders have demonstrated they can meet the standards).\n\nThe construction industry is perhaps the heaviest user of apprenticeship programs in the United States, with the US Department of Labor reporting 74,164 new apprentices accepted in 2007 at the height of the construction boom. Most of these apprentices participated in what are called \"joint\" apprenticeship programs, administered jointly by construction employers and construction labor unions. For example, the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT) has opened the Finishing Trades Institute (FTI). The FTI is working towards national accreditation so that it may offer associate and bachelor's degrees that integrate academics with a more traditional apprentice programs. The IUPAT has joined forces with the Professional Decorative Painters Association (PDPA) to build educational standards using a model of apprenticeship created by the PDPA.\n\nPersons interested in learning to become electricians can join one of several apprenticeship programs offered jointly by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the National Electrical Contractors Association. No background in electrical work is required. A minimum age of 18 is required. There is no maximum age. Men and women are equally invited to participate. The organization in charge of the program is called the National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee .\n\nApprentice electricians work 32 to 40+ hours per week at the trade under the supervision of a journeyman wireman and receive pay and benefits. They spend an additional 8 hours every other week in classroom training. At the conclusion of training (five years for inside wireman and outside lineman, less for telecommunications), apprentices reach the level of journeyman wireman. All of this is offered at no charge, except for the cost of books (which is approximately $200–600 per year), depending on grades. Persons completing this program are considered highly skilled by employers and command high pay and benefits. Other unions such as the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, United Association of Plumbers, Fitters, Welders and HVAC Service Techs, Operating Engineers, Ironworkers, Sheet Metal Workers, Plasterers, Bricklayers and others offer similar programs.\n\nTrade associations such as the Independent Electrical Contractors and Associated Builders and Contractors also offer a variety of apprentice training programs. Registered programs also are offered by the\nAerospace Joint Apprenticeship Committee (AJAC) to fill a shortage of aerospace and advanced manufacturing workers in Washington State.\n\nFor FDA-regulated industries such as food, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, nutraceuticals and cosemecuticals, companies may offer apprenticeships in Quality Assurance, Quality Control, Medical Affairs (MSLs), Clinical Trials, or Regulatory Affairs. Apprentices may be placed at a host company and must continue to work toward an industry certification such as those offered by ASQ or RAPS while they remain in the apprenticeship. The costs of training and mentorship can be covered by the program and apprentices receive full pay and benefits.\n\nA modified form of apprenticeship is required for before an engineer is licensed as a Professional Engineer in any of the states of the United States. In the United States, regulation of professional engineering licenses is the right and responsibility of the federated state. That is, each of the 50 states sets its own licensing requirements and issues (and, if needed, revokes) licenses to practice engineering in that state.\n\nAlthough the requirements can vary slightly from state to state, in general to obtain a Professional Engineering License in a given state, one must graduate with Bachelor of Science in Engineering from an accredited college or university, pass the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) Exam, which designates the title of Engineer in Training (EIT), work in that discipline for at least four years under a licensed Professional Engineer (PE), and then pass the Principles and Practice of Engineering Exam. One and two years of experience credit is given for those with qualifying master’s and doctoral degrees, respectively.\n\nIn most cases the states have reciprocity agreements so that once an individual becomes licensed in one state can also become licensed in other states with relative ease.\n\nYouth Apprenticeship is promising new strategy to engage youth in career connected learning, encourage high school completion, lower the youth unemployment rate, lower the skills gap and to provide a pipeline for youth into higher education or into industry as qualified workers to fill open positions. \nThese programs provide high school juniors and seniors with a career and educational pathway into industry. They develop real-world skills, earn competitive wages, and gain high school credits towards graduation and receive tuition free college credits. Upon completion of the program, the youth apprentices will obtain a journey level certification from the State Department of Labor and Industries, a nationally recognized credential.\n\nYouth apprenticeship has been successfully piloted in a number of states including, Washington, Wisconsin, Colorado, Oregon, North Carolina and South Carolina. In these states, thousands of high school students engage in both classroom technical training and paid structured on-the-job training across a number of high-growth, high-demand industries. In Charlotte, NC several companies, many rooted in Europe, have started joint programs (Apprenticeship Charlotte and Apprenticeship 2000) to jointly further the idea of apprenticeships and close the gap in technical workforce availability.\n\nIn Liberia, tailor apprenticeships engage with more skilled tailors to learn the craft and the skills that may be taught in more traditional school settings. They learn from master tailors, which gives the apprentices a promised job once their training is completed. \nApprentices must have a grasp on patterns, measurement, and other math skills. They demonstrate full concept mastery before moving on to the next piece of clothing. Instead of formal testing for evaluation, articles of clothing must meet the quality standards before they can be sold and before the apprentice can begin a new design. \n\nThe modern concept of an internship is similar to an apprenticeship but not as rigorous. Universities still use apprenticeship schemes in their production of scholars: bachelors are promoted to masters and then produce a thesis under the oversight of a supervisor before the corporate body of the university recognises the achievement of the standard of a doctorate. Another view of this system is of graduate students in the role of apprentices, post-doctoral fellows as journeymen, and professors as masters . In the \"Wealth of Nations\" Adam Smith states that Seven years seem anciently to have been, all over Europe, the usual term established for the duration of apprenticeships in the greater part of incorporated trades. All such incorporations were anciently called universities, which indeed is the proper Latin name for any incorporation whatever. The university of smiths, the university of tailors, etc., are expressions which we commonly meet with in the old charters of ancient towns [...] As to have wrought seven years under a master properly qualified was necessary in order to entitle any person to become a master, and to have himself apprenticed in a common trade; so to have studied seven years under a master properly qualified was necessary to entitle him to become a master, teacher, or doctor (words anciently synonymous) in the liberal arts, and to have scholars or apprentices (words likewise originally synonymous) to study under him.\nAlso similar to apprenticeships are the professional development arrangements for new graduates in the professions of accountancy, engineering, management consulting, and the law. A British example was training contracts known as 'articles of clerkship'. The learning curve in modern professional service firms, such as law firms, consultancies or accountancies, generally resembles the traditional master-apprentice model: the newcomer to the firm is assigned to one or several more experienced colleagues (ideally partners in the firm) and learns his skills on the job.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2986429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2986429", "title": "Ashesi University", "text": "Ashesi University\n\nAshesi University is a private college located in Ghana, West Africa.\n\nThe mission of Ashesi University is to educate ethical, entrepreneurial leaders in Africa.\n\nIn 2017, Ashesi was awarded the World Innovation Summit in Education Prize, one of the world’s biggest prizes in education, for its impact on higher education in Africa. In 2018, Ashesi was also awarded a Charter by the President of Ghana, granting it full independence as a nationally recognised degree-granting institution. It was the youngest university to have been granted a Presidential Charter in Ghana’s history, a rare accomplishment.\n\nAshesi offers a four-year bachelors programme grounded in a multidisciplinary core curriculum, featuring majors in Business Administration, Management Information Systems, Computer Science, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Computer Engineering and Mechanical Engineering. With an academic program designed in collaboration with some of the world's best universities and organisations, Ashesi continues to shape an educational experience like no other in Africa.\n\n\nAshesi was founded by Patrick Awuah, a Ghanaian who spent over 15 years living and working in the United States. Awuah left Ghana in 1985 to attend Swarthmore College on a full scholarship, after which he worked for Microsoft Corporation as an engineer and a program manager for eight years. Experiencing first hand the dramatic impact that education can have on one's life, Awuah embarked on a mission in 1997 to provide greater educational opportunities in Ghana. He enrolled in business school at the University of California at Berkeley's Haas School of Business, both to evaluate the feasibility of his goal and to gain managerial skills with which to found and manage a university.\n\n\n\"If there is anything you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it. Begin it now.\"\nThese words by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe are the inspiration behind the university's name, Ashesi, which means \"beginning\" in Fante, a native Ghanaian language.\n\nDuring the summer of 1998, a team of four MBA students from UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business travelled to Ghana to conduct extensive market research and evaluate the feasibility of establishing a new university. With the goal of gathering data to provide a foundation for business decisions, the team administered over 3,300 surveys to students and parents; conducted interviews and focus groups with parents, teachers and business leaders; and gathered secondary information from local and international sources. The result was a comprehensive feasibility study, analysing Ghanaian tertiary education.\n\nSet on 100 acres in Berekuso, overlooking Ghana's capital city of Accra, Ashesi’s campus unites traditional Ghanaian design, modern technology and environmental best practices. The campus has interconnected courtyards, that emphasize a sense of community. The architecture borrows from the Ghanaian vernacular, with echoes of traditional compound houses, as well as elements of traditional Northern dwellings. The natural contours of the site are used in concert with buildings to create exterior gathering spaces throughout campus, as well as ramps that provide wheel chair access to buildings. Buildings are designed to maximize natural views, light and ventilation.\n\nGround water is supplemented with harvested rainwater, filtered and treated to provide potable water all year round. A community-scale sewage and organic treatment plant provides environmental and economic benefits by converting waste to biogas for some of the campus’ cooking needs and recycling treated water for landscaping.\n\nOn Wednesday 3 May 2018, President of the Republic of Ghana, H.E Nana Akufo-Addo awarded Ashesi University a Presidential Charter meaning the University will now award degrees to its graduated in its name. Ashesi, until this year was affiliated to the University of Cape Coast(UCC), Ghana meaning its graduates were awarded a UCC degree.\n\nIn 2012, the university was ranked by PwC as the seventh most respected organisation in Ghana, becoming the first university to make the list. Ashesi's President, Dr. Patrick Awuah, was also ranked the 4th Most Respected CEO in Ghana. In 2015, Africa.com again named Ashesi among its list of top 10 African Universities (excluding South Africa).\n\nIt has also been ranked as one of Ghana's 50 Best Places to work (2015), according to a survey by Ghanaian consulting firm Goodman AMC; it was again, the only university on the list.\n\nIn 2013, CNN shared the story of Ashesi and its founder on its African Voices programme. In the interview, Ashesi's President said: \"If you come back in 30 years, universities will be competing for the best and brightest students. I hope that universities will also be competing on things such as whose students are the most ethical. If that happens, it will change the continent.\"\n\nIn 2015, Ashesi's President was ranked by Fortune (magazine) as one of the World's 50 Greatest Leaders, together with the likes of Bill & Melinda Gates, Pope Francis and founder of Amazon.com, Jeff Bezos. The list according to Forbes, was made up of men and women who \"in an era that feels starved for leadership, will inspire you—some famous, others little known, all of them energizing their followers and making the world better.\" \n\nIn 2017, Ashesi was awarded the World Innovation Summit in Education Prize, one of the world’s biggest prizes in education, for its impact on higher education in Africa. In 2018, Ashesi was also awarded a Charter by the President of Ghana, granting it full independence as a nationally recognised degree-granting institution. It was the youngest university to have been granted a Presidential Charter in Ghana’s history, a rare accomplishment.\n\nKey Projects Ashesi runs\n\n\nSee also\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45508656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45508656", "title": "Börje Holmberg", "text": "Börje Holmberg\n\nBörje Holmberg was born in 1924 in Malmö, Sweden. Holmberg has written profusely on distance education in Swedish, German and English. He has been awarded honorary doctorates by Deakin University in Australia and the Open University in the United Kingdom. He is a member of the Royal Physiographic Society in Lund, an academy of sciences founded in 1792, is a Knight of the Royal Order of Vasa, Sweden, as well as of the Order of the White Rose of Finland.\n\nHolmberg studied English, German, Romance Languages and Education at the University of Lund and later went on to earn his doctorate in 1956. Holmberg worked in the field of distance education at in Sweden for over 19 years. He held the position of Education Director from 1956 to 1965. In 1966 he was appointed was appointed Director General of Hermods Foundation up till his resignation in 1975.\n\nIn 1976, Holmberg became Professor of Distance Education Methodology and Director of the Institute for Distance Education Research at the FernUniversität in Hagen, Germany. During his tenure there Holmberg published several books and made contributions to scholarly journals and papers. Among his works is \"Theory and Practice of Distance Education\", a second and revised edition of which was published by Routledge in 1990.\n\nIn 1995 he became Planning President of the new \"Private FernFachhochschule Darmstadt\" (Distance Polytechnic, now ) in Darmstadt. After his retirement from the FernUniversität, Holmberg continued contributing both to research and debate on distance education as an active practitioner in the field.\n\nIn July 2003, Holmberg joined a project concerned with online teaching and learning initiated by Ulrich Bernath and Eugene Rubin. As a member of their team he contributed to the development of the Virtual Seminar for Professional Development in Distance Education, which was successfully conducted in 1997 and 1998 with participants from all over the world. This course became the recommended first core course in the online Master of Distance Education (MDE) program, which is jointly offered by the University of Maryland University College and the Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg.\n\nGuided Didactic Conversation\n\nHolmberg is primarily known for his theory of personal communication between instructors and learners in distance education. He views distance education as the conversation-like interaction between the student on the one hand and the tutor/counselor of the supporting organization administering the study on the other. The central concepts of his theory are motivation; empathy; non-contiguous communication; learner autonomy and interpersonal communication.\n\nIn Holmberg's way of describing how distance educators should communicate with students in order to ensure real learning. He uses the analogy of conversation to describe didactic conversation and derived seven postulates.\n\nGuided didactic communication includes: Simulated conversation (one-way, the presentation of materials) and Real conversation (two-way between tutor and student). Examples of simulated conversation include self-checking exercises, review questions w/ model answers, and inserted questions. In essence, Holmberg believes that by fostering empathy between learning and tutor parties through appropriate one-way and two-way interactions, learners will be motivated and encouraged to engage in their studies. He also holds a general assumption that \"real learning is primarily an individual activity and is attained only through an internalizing process.\" This assumption is one in which theory on distance education can be based. Thus, the goal of his theory is to support individualized learning.\n\nIn his Distance Education in Essence publication as a researcher Holmberg, looked carefully into the character and applications of distance education, and presents a revised version of his much discussed overarching theory. Particular attention is paid to the innovatory character of distance education and the role of technology in today's practice.\n"}
{"id": "3148426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3148426", "title": "Canadian IT Body of Knowledge", "text": "Canadian IT Body of Knowledge\n\nCanadian Information Technology Body of Knowledge (CITBOK) is the project sponsored and undertaken by Canadian Information Processing Society (CIPS) to define and outline the body of knowledge that defines a Canadian Information Systems Professional (ISP).\n\nCIPS recognizes that in order to strengthen the criteria of the ISP designation successfully while still maintaining high standards, the association needs to develop a Canadian Information Technology Body of Knowledge (CITBOK) that will set standards for knowledge. The CITBOK is an outline of the knowledge bases that form the intellectual basis for the IT profession. CIPS has identified a core CITBOK that all professionals would be expected to master and specialty bodies of knowledge that would depend on your area of practice. When setting this Canadian standard for Information Technology (IT) knowledge, CIPS looked to other organizations and internationally for standards and bodies of knowledge that CIPS could adopt or adapt, especially for the specialty areas. For example, in 2004, CIPS adopted the British Computer Society (BCS) Professional Examination Study Guide Syllabus Diploma level (Core and 11 specialist modules) as the initial Body of Knowledge for CIPS.\n\nThe CITBOK aims to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33133405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33133405", "title": "College of Teacher Education of Nanjing Normal University", "text": "College of Teacher Education of Nanjing Normal University\n\nThe College of Teacher Education of Nanjing Normal University (Chinese:南京师范大学教师教育学院) is one of twenty-three colleges of Nanjing Normal University. It was proposed in 2005 and came into existence in 2010. The college has 10 majors and the total enrolment is on a large scale. \n\nAs the southern birthplace of China's education of teachers, Nanjing Normal University has developed into a comprehensive university with a distinct feature of teacher education. The title “the southern birthplace of China's education of teachers” given to Nanjing Normal University is intended to honor its long history in teacher education. Nanjing Normal University has a history more than 100 years, its predecessor was dating from Three Rivers Normal School which established in 1902. In this period, many celebrities were born here. They are the great Chinese educator Tao Xingzhi, the famous Chinese educator Wu Yifang,the Chinese early childhood educationist Chen Heqin the artist Xu Beihong and so on. To respond to the call of Chinese government and conform to the trend of teacher's professional development in China, the university founded the faculty of Teachers' Education in 2010.\n\nBefore the foundation of the faculty, effort had been put into the project. Since the construction programme of the new undergraduate course about the teacher education was put into effort in 2005, an experience on the reformation of \"2.5+1.5\" developing pattern was conducted, which targeted the normal students of 2007, 2008 and 2009 on campus. When a university is on the “2.5+1.5” developing pattern in China, the university students are expected to learn the basic and general knowledge in the beginning two and half years of university. While in the last one and half years of university, the students will be exposed to specialized and professional subjects. Double-tutors system has been set up in the course of graduation design.\n\nTen academic majors have been gathered in the faculty. They are English teaching，chemistry teaching, history teaching, physics teaching, mathematics teaching, Chinese teaching, biology teaching, geography teaching, politics teaching and computer teaching. literally, these academic majors belong to the faculty of Teachers' Education. Actually, the teacher - training students are also exposed to other relevant professional resources from other colleges in Nanjing Normal University. For example, the English teaching student will be cultivated by both the College of Teacher Education and College of Foreign Languages of Nanjing Normal University.\nThe faculty today has 112 specialized teachers with 26 professors and 34 associate professors.The dean of the faculty is Xia Jinwen (Chinese:夏锦文)who is also the vice-president of Nanjing Normal University.\n\nIn China, universities provide students with opportunities to challenge and promote their sophisticated abilities in addition to their academic level. In this way, various students’ organizations spring like mushroom. There are four major organizations in this college. They are the Students’ Union, the Youth Volunteers Association, the Youth League general branch and the Mental Weather Station. The four organizations almost cover all the aspects of students’ activities.\nThe leading organization is the Students’ Union, which consists of 8 separate and distinctive departments. It is operated by students themselves for its chairman is selected from students in the college. To ensure necessary help from the college is available and punctual, a certain teacher acts as a supervisor to the organization. The organization’s responsibility is to organize varied and extensive activities on the behalf of students.\n\nAs to Youth League general league, it deals with the issues related to the Communist Youth League and the Chinese Communist Party. For example, if a student in the Teacher’s College submits an application to join the Chinese Communist Party, then the general branch will inspect the student in a certain period to find whether he or she is qualified or not. Apart from that, to assist the students to accomplish their summer social practice is what they are working on.\nVolunteer work is an essential part of university life, so the Youth Volunteers Association is supposed to provide information and opportunities about the available volunteer work, both in school and in society. \nThese three organizations mentioned above are customary ones of a college while the Mental Weather Station is set aside from the Students’ Union particularly. This organization caters to the affairs of state that more and more university students are suffering pressure。 In the way, more professional advice and instant help is in touch for the students in the College of Teacher Education whenever needed.\n"}
{"id": "54056981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54056981", "title": "Education about the Holocaust", "text": "Education about the Holocaust\n\nEducation about the Holocaust or Holocaust education refers to efforts, in formal and non-formal settings, to teach about the Holocaust. Teaching and Learning about the Holocaust (TLH) addresses didactics and learning, under the larger umbrella of education about the Holocaust, which also comprises curricula and textbooks studies. The expression “Teaching and Learning about the Holocaust” is used by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance.\n\nWhile most Holocaust education centers have focused on the genocide committed against Jews by the Nazis, a growing number have expanded their mission and programming to include the murder of other groups by the Nazi and Stalinist regimes, the Armenian genocide, the Rwandan genocide, Kurdish genocide, Croatian genocide, Bosnian genocide, indigenous genocide due to colonization, and other mass exterminations. These centers also address racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, homophobia, lesbophobia, biphobia, and transphobia.\n\nMultiple opportunities exist for teaching about the Holocaust. The text that follows explores the role that teaching and learning about the Holocaust can play in three specific contexts: the prevention of genocide, the promotion of human rights and dealing with traumatic pasts. \n\nTo teach about the particularity of the Holocaust is an opportunity to teach about the nature and dynamics of mass atrocity crimes, i.e. genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The United Nations Framework of Analysis of Atrocity Crimes states “atrocity crimes are considered to be the most serious crimes against humankind. Their status as international crimes is based on the belief that the acts associated with them affect the core dignity of human beings.” From a human perspective, but also from social, political and economic perspectives, the costs and consequences of these crimes are immeasurable and extend far beyond the limits of territories where they were perpetrated. Prevention has, therefore, been identified by the international community as a necessity for international peace and stability. Prevention requires continuous efforts and awareness in both the short and long term at the local, national and global levels. Such measures may include institutional initiatives that strengthen the rule of law and protect human rights, ensure a better management of diverse societies and reinforce civil society and independent media.\n\nEducation about the Holocaust, as well as education more broadly about genocide and mass atrocities, provides the opportunity to help build critical thinking skills, to augment resilient and effective responses to extreme and exclusionary ideologies, and to illuminate for students how they see themselves in the context of their country’s past, present and future.\n\nThe Holocaust began with abuses of power and gross human rights violations by Nazi Germany that over time escalated into war and genocide. While not all human rights violations result in genocide, the Holocaust presents an important case to be explored in a human rights context. The discriminatory policies and practices that dehumanized and marginalized Jews and other minority or political groups (such as depriving individuals of their citizenship) illuminate how human rights violations when combined with factors such as the abuse of power and/or exclusionary ideology can become normalized in a society – even one framed by the rule of law. That these policies escalated over time to a state-sponsored system for murder underlines the dangerous environment that can result when human rights are disavowed. In the aftermath of the Second World War and the Holocaust, a number of international norms promoting human rights were formulated, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide. Examining this outcome represents a crucial phase in understanding the evolution of human rights concepts.\n\nStill, education about the Holocaust and human rights education are two distinct fields. How educators can create the space for students to examine the history in a manner that respects the tenets of each field requires some thought. A number of organizations have considered these points of intersection, including the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA), in partnership with Yad Vashem, and the German Foundation “Remembrance, Responsibility and Future” (EVZ). Thoughtfully integrating examination of the Holocaust into a human rights framework can be an important dimension of education that promotes critical thinking about the roles and responsibilities of members of society and their leaders in the context of human rights. \n\nEducating about the Holocaust is primarily a duty for European countries, in which considerable segments of societies either collaborated with Nazi Germany or stood by. After an initial period of silence and/or minimization, many countries have developed an understanding of the need to educate about the Holocaust and the obligation to investigate and face their national past. Nevertheless, national, professional or individual responsibilities remain heavily debated within and among countries where the Holocaust took place. Even more than 70 years after the events, a self-critical vision of history that accounts for the range of responsibilities in the murder of Jews and other groups such as the Roma has yet to emerge in many places. Nationalistic ideologies continue to influence the ways in which history is remembered and taught.\n\nMany post-atrocity communities throughout the world struggle with divided societies. Social cohesion remains fractured and progress is blocked by the country’s refusal to deal with its national history of genocide and mass atrocities and the long-term trauma such crimes cause. This challenge increases when con icting parties or survivors and their tormentors must co-exist in the same society in the aftermaths of atrocity crimes. While some societies opt for an approach of silence, others have found that as a society transitions towards non-violent and humane ways to handle conflict, facing the past can become an important element of the national narrative.\n\nTeaching about a contested history involving atrocities that still affect the present is a particularly challenging task, all the more so because history education is one of the most difficult segments of education systems to reform. Moreover, dealing with the history of past abuses through education often requires a minimal consensus within the society, and therefore institutional support, before new historical narratives accounting for crimes perpetrated can be integrated in curricula and textbooks or tackled by teachers in formal education settings. Such a process is happening in Lithuania, where the Holocaust and the history of the Jews in Lithuania has not been taught adequately until fairly recently.\n\n“Genocide education” deals with the phenomenon of genocide, while education about the Holocaust focuses above all on the causes and dynamics of the genocide of the Jewish people and responses to it. However, both fields are increasingly interconnected. To date, the Holocaust has been the most researched, documented and widely taught case of genocide. \n\nThe Institute on the Holocaust & Genocide in Jerusalem established in 1979, believes that it may be the first holocaust education center to address the genocide of all peoples A growing number of holocaust education centers include genocide, intolerance, hatred, and human rights within their mission, programming, and curriculum. \n\nThe Holocaust in curricula and textbooks discusses the ways in which the Holocaust is presented in secondary school level history and social studies curricula worldwide, and conceptualized and narrated in textbooks. The status of the Holocaust in curricula and textbooks varies considerably worldwide.\n\nCurricula and textbooks, in particular those designed for history teaching, provide both a space for the formation of a condensed canon of knowledge which is considered to be relevant to a specific society, and a means by which claims to social legitimacy may be made. The study of curricula and textbooks enables the reconstruction of patterns of perception and interpretation, or the standards and values which hold sway at any given time. Moreover, they offer insights into the variety of ways in which national identities are conceived of and constructed. They are ideal sources for the following reasons:\n\nGlobal Citizenship Education (GCED) aims to develop students to be informed and critically literate, socially connected, respectful of diversity, and ethically responsible and engaged. There exist strong opportunities for aligning education about the Holocaust with the goals of GCED. Indeed, understanding how and why the Holocaust happened can help learners reflect on their role as global citizens, develop skills in historical understanding regarding why individuals and states acted the way they did in their given circumstances, and possibly take action on civic issues important for their school and society. Teaching about the Holocaust can, therefore, be expected to provide opportunities for contemporary skill-building, decision-making, and critical self-reflection on one’s own role in society. The study of the Holocaust is highly compatible with GCED for at least three key reasons:\nUNESCO has stated that holocaust and genocide education is part of its efforts to promote Global Citizenship Education and a priority within its Education 2030 agenda. \n\nAssociation of Holocaust Organizations\n\nFor a complete list of Holocaust museums, memorials, foundations, and education centers, please visit the Association of Holocaust Organizations.\n\nAFRICA\nASIA\n\nAUSTRALIA / NEW ZEALAND\nCANADA\nUNITED KINGDOM / IRELAND\n\nEUROPE\n\nThe Netherlands\nNorway\nSweden\n\nISRAEL\n\nLATIN AMERICA\nUNITED STATES\n\nCalifornia\n\n\n\nColorado\n\nFlorida\nIllinois\n\nIndiana\n\nIowa\n\nMaine\n\nMassachusetts\nMinnesota\n\n\nNew Hampshire\nNew Jersey\n\n\nNew York\n\nNorth Carolina\nTexas\nWashington\nWashington D.C.\n"}
{"id": "26245152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26245152", "title": "Educational aims and objectives", "text": "Educational aims and objectives\n\nThe Compact Oxford English Dictionary and others interchangeably define the noun \"objective\" as, \"Objective: noun 1 a goal or aim.\" Although the noun forms of the three words \"aim\", \"objective\" and \"goal\" are often used synonymously, professionals in organised education define the words \"aim\" and \"objective\" more narrowly and consider them to be distinct from each other. \n\nAims are concerned with purpose whereas objectives are concerned with achievement. \n\nUsually an educational objective relates to gaining an ability, a skill, some knowledge, a new attitude etc. rather than having merely completed a given task. Since the achievement of objectives usually takes place during the course and the aims look forward into the student's career and life beyond the course one can expect the aims of a course to be relatively more long term than the objectives of that same course.\nThe course aims are the raison d'être of the course. In the context of an organised unit of education, such as a course module or course programme, an aim is a (relatively) long-term goal. Sometimes an aim sets a goal for the teacher to achieve in relation to the learners, sometimes course aims explicitly list long-term goals for the learner and at other times there is a joint goal for the teacher and learner to achieve together. While the aim may be phrased as a goal for the teacher within the scope of the course it can also imply goals for the learner beyond the duration of the course. In a statement of an aim the third person singular form of the verb with the subject \"course, programme or module\" is often used as an impersonal way of referring to the teaching staff and their goals. Similarly the learner is often referred to in the third person singular even when he or she is the intended reader.\n\nAn objective is a (relatively) shorter term goal which successful learners will achieve within the scope of the course itself. Objectives are often worded in course documentation in a way that explains to learners what they should try to achieve as they learn. Some educational organisations design objectives which carefully match the SMART criteria borrowed from the business world.\n\nSince both aim and objective are in common language synonymous with goal they are both suggestive of a form of goal-oriented education. For this reason some educational organisations use the term learning outcome since this term is inclusive of education in which learners strive to achieve goals but extends further to include other forms of education. For example, in learning through play children are not made aware of specific goals but planned, beneficial outcomes result from the activity nevertheless.\n\nTherefore, the term learning outcome is replacing objective in some educational organisations. In some organisations the term learning outcome is used in the part of a course description where aims are normally found. One can equate aims to \"intended\" learning outcomes and objectives to \"measured\" learning outcomes. A third category of learning outcome is the \"unintended\" learning outcome which would include beneficial outcomes that were neither planned nor sought but are simply observed.\n\n"}
{"id": "22666301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22666301", "title": "Escuela de Periodismo Carlos Septién García", "text": "Escuela de Periodismo Carlos Septién García\n\nThe Escuela de Periodismo Carlos Septién García (EPCSG - \"School of Journalism Carlos Septién García\") was the first Mexican educational institution of journalism. It was founded by Luis Beltrán y Mendoza, and supported by the Acción Católica Mexicana (Mexican Catholic Action), on May 30, 1939, and achieved certification of the Secretaría de Educación Pública on July 2, 1976. The school was named after its second director.\n\nUnder the leadership of Alejandro Avilés Insunza the school detached itself from the Acción Católica Mexicana and its associated political and ideological tendencies concerning academic freedom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2724543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2724543", "title": "Flannelgraph", "text": "Flannelgraph\n\nFlannelgraph (also called flannel board or flannelgram) is a storytelling system that uses a board covered with flannel fabric, usually resting on an easel. It is very similar to Fuzzy Felt, although its primary use is as a storytelling medium, rather than as a toy.\n\nThe flannel board is usually painted to depict a background scene appropriate to the story being told. Paper cutouts of characters and objects in the story are then placed on the board, and moved around, as the story unfolds. These cutouts are backed, either with flannel, or with some other substance that adheres lightly to the flannel background, such as coarse sandpaper.\n\nPlain, undecorated flannel boards can also be used as a visual aid during presentations, allowing the speaker to display and remove charts and graphs as needed.\n\nFlannelgraph has been (and continues to be) a popular medium for telling Bible stories to young Sunday School students in Christian (and particularly Evangelical) churches. Indeed, it is used as a storytelling method almost exclusively in elementary-level Christian education. This may be attributed, in part, to the fact that flannelgraph is relatively inexpensive, yet provides a more vivid alternative to storytelling without visual illustration.\n\n"}
{"id": "21864194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21864194", "title": "Gamal Abdel Nasser University of Conakry", "text": "Gamal Abdel Nasser University of Conakry\n\nGamal Abdel Nasser University of Conakry (in French \"L'Université Gamal Abdel Nasser de Conakry\", UGANC), is the largest university in Guinea and located in Dixinn Commune, Conakry, the Guinean capital. The name is generally shortened to the University of Conakry.\n\nThe university came into being in 1962 as the Institut Polytechnique de Conakry, the first institution of higher education in Guinea, with the assistance of the Soviet Union. It was established during a period of progressive economic development in the country after independence. In 1970, the school's name was changed to the Institut Polytechnique Gamal Abdel Nasser de Conakry, after the popular Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser. In 1989, it was renamed again, this time to the Université Gamal Abdel Nasser de Conakry.\n\nIn 1965, the separate \"École supérieure d'administration\" was incorporated into the \"Institut Polytechnique\". As of 1974, the university had 13 schools and faculties, including medicine. It currently has a \"Faculté de Médecine, Pharmacie et Odontostomatologie\" (Faculty of Medicine, Pharmacy and Dentistry), with a department for each of the three disciplines; a \"Faculté des Sciences\" (Faculty of Sciences), with biology, chemistry, mathematics and physics departments; a \"Centre d’Etude et de Recherche en Environnement\" (Centre for Study and Environmental Research); a \"Centre Informatique\" (Computing Centre); and an \"Institut Polytechnique\" (Polytechnic Institute), with departments of electrical engineering, civil engineering, computer engineering, chemical engineering, industrial engineering and maintenance, mechanical engineering and telecommunications. On 21 September 2015, a protocol of agreement was signed in Conakry between Guinea and the Institut Pasteur to create the Institut Pasteur of Guinea, which will be an independent department of the University of Conakry.\n\nThe university has a campus-wide computer network with a fiber optic backbone and 100BaseT Ethernet cabling as of 2007. The United States Agency for International Development helped set up the network and internet connection. Each faculty provides a lab with 5-9 computers for faculty and students, but that is a ratio of only one PC per hundred users, again as of 2007. Online university courses are offered.\n\nIn 2002, the university entrance exam was controversially abolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13410111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13410111", "title": "Hutchinson Letters Affair", "text": "Hutchinson Letters Affair\n\nThe Hutchinson Letters Affair was an incident that increased tensions between the colonists of the Province of Massachusetts Bay and the British government prior to the American Revolution. In June 1773 letters written several years earlier by Thomas Hutchinson and Andrew Oliver, governor and lieutenant governor of the province at the time of their publication, were published in a Boston newspaper. The content of the letters was propagandistically claimed by Massachusetts radical politicians to call for the abridgement of colonial rights, and a duel was fought in England over the matter.\n\nThe affair served to inflame tensions in Massachusetts, where implementation of the 1773 Tea Act was met with resistance that culminated in the Boston Tea Party in December 1773. The response of the British government to the publication of the letters served to turn Benjamin Franklin, one of the principal figures in the affair, into a committed Patriot.\n\nDuring the 1760s, relations between Great Britain and some of its North American colonies became strained by a series of Parliamentary laws (including the 1765 Stamp Act and the 1767 Townshend Acts), intended to raise revenue for the crown, and to assert Parliament's authority to pass such legislation despite a lack of colonial representation. These laws had sparked strong protests in the Thirteen Colonies; the Province of Massachusetts Bay in particular saw significant unrest and direct action against crown officials. The introduction of British Army troops into Boston in 1768 further raised tensions that escalated to the Boston Massacre in 1770.\n\nIn the years after the enactment of the Townshend Acts, Massachusetts Lieutenant Governor Thomas Hutchinson and his colonial secretary (and brother-in-law) Andrew Oliver wrote a series of letters concerning the acts, the protests against them, and containing suggestions on how to respond, to Thomas Whately, an assistant to Prime Minister George Grenville. Whately died in 1772, and his papers were turned over to his brother William. Whately at one point gave access to his brother's papers to John Temple, another colonial official who sought to recover letters of his own from those papers.\n\nHutchinson was appointed governor of Massachusetts in 1770, following the critical publication by opposition politicians of letters written by his predecessor, Francis Bernard. Over the next two years Hutchinson engaged in an extended and rancorous written debate with the provincial assembly and the governor's council, both of which were dominated by radical leadership hostile to Parliamentary authority. The debate centered on the arbitrariness of executive prerogative and the role of Parliament in colonial governance, and greatly deepened divisions in the province.\nThe Massachusetts debate reached a pitch in England when the colonial secretary, Lord Dartmouth, insisted that Benjamin Franklin, then acting as agent for Massachusetts in London, demanded that the Massachusetts assembly retract its response to a speech the governor gave early in 1772 as part of this ongoing debate. Franklin had acquired a packet of about twenty letters that had been written to Whately. Upon reading them, Franklin concluded that Hutchinson and Oliver had mischaracterized the situation in the colonies, and thus misled Parliament. He felt that wider knowledge of these letters would then focus colonial anger away from Parliament and at those who had written the misleading letters. Franklin sent the letters to Thomas Cushing, the speaker of the Massachusetts assembly, in December 1772. He insisted to Cushing that they not be published or widely circulated. He specifically wrote that they should be seen only by a few people, and that he was not \"at liberty to make the letters public.\"\n\nThe letters arrived in Massachusetts in March 1773, and came into the hands of Samuel Adams, then serving as the clerk of the Massachusetts assembly. By Franklin's instructions, only a select few people, including the Massachusetts Committee of Correspondence, were to see the letters. Alarmed at what they read, Cushing wrote Franklin, asking if the restrictions on their circulation could be eased. In a response received by Cushing in early June, Franklin reiterated that they were not to be copied or published, but could be shown to anyone.\n\nA longtime opponent of Hutchinson's, Samuel Adams narrowly followed Franklin's request, but managed to orchestrate a propaganda campaign against Hutchinson without immediately disclosing the letters. He informed the assembly of the existence of the letters, after which it designated a committee to analyze them. Strategic leaks suggestive of their content made their way into the press and political discussions, causing Hutchinson much discomfort. The assembly eventually concluded, according to John Hancock, that in the letters Hutchinson sought to \"overthrow the Constitution of this Government, and to introduce arbitrary Power into the Province\", and called for the removal of Hutchinson and Oliver. Hutchinson complained that Adams and the opposition were misrepresenting what he had written, and that nothing he had written in them on the subject of Parliamentary supremacy went beyond other statements he had made. The letters were finally published in the \"Boston Gazette\" in mid-June 1773, causing a political firestorm in Massachusetts and raising significant questions in England.\n\nThe letters were written primarily in 1768 and 1769, principally by Hutchinson and Oliver, although the published letters also included some written by Charles Paxton, a customs official and Hutchinson supporter, and Hutchinson's nephew Nathaniel Rogers. The letters written by Oliver (who became lieutenant governor when Hutchinson became governor) proposed a significant revamping of the Massachusetts government to strengthen the executive, while those of Hutchinson were ruminations on the difficult state of affairs in the province. Historian Bernard Bailyn confirms Hutchinson's own assertion that much of the content of his letters expressed relatively little that had not already been publicly stated.\n\nAccording to Bailyn, Hutchinson's ruminations included the observation that it was impossible for colonists have the full rights they would have in the home country, essentially requiring an \"abridgement of what are called English liberties\". Hutchinson, unlike Oliver, made no specific proposals on \"how\" the colonial government should be reformed, writing in a letter that was not among those published, \"I can think of nothing but what will produce as great an evil as that which it may remove or will be of a very uncertain event.\" Oliver's letters, in contrast, specifically proposed that the governor's council, whose members where then elected by the assembly with the governor's consent, be changed to one whose members were appointed by the crown.\n\nIn England, speculation ran rampant over the source of the leak. William Whately accused John Temple of taking the letters, which Temple denied, challenging Whately to a duel. Whately was wounded in the encounter in early December 1773, but neither participant was satisfied, and a second duel was planned. In order to forestall that event, Franklin on Christmas Day published a letter admitting that he was responsible for the acquisition and transmission of the letters, to prevent \"further mischief\". He justified his actions by pointing out that the letters had been written between public officials for the purpose of influencing public policy.\n\nWhen Hutchinson's opponents in Massachusetts read the letters, they seized on key phrases (including the \"abridgement\" phrase) to argue that Hutchinson was in fact lobbying the London government to make changes that would effect such an abridgement. Combined with Oliver's explicit recommendations for reform, they presented this as a clear indication that the provincial leaders were working against the interests of the people and not for them.\n\nBostonians were outraged at the content of the published letters, burning Hutchinson and Oliver in effigy on Boston Common. The letters were widely reprinted throughout the British North American colonies, and acts of protest took place as far away as Philadelphia. The Massachusetts assembly and governor's council petitioned the Board of Trade for Hutchinson's removal. In the Privy Council hearing concerning Hutchinson's fate, in which the aftermath of the Boston Tea Party was also discussed, Franklin stood silently while he was lambasted by Solicitor General Alexander Wedderburn for his role in the affair. He was accused of thievery and dishonor, and called the prime mover in England on behalf of Boston's radical Committee of Correspondence. The Board of Trade dismissed Franklin from his post as colonial Postmaster General, and dismissed the petition for Hutchinson's removal as \"groundless\" and \"vexatious\". Parliament then passed the so-called \"Coercive Acts\", a package of measures designed to punish Massachusetts for the tea party. Hutchinson was recalled, and the Massachusetts governorship was given to the commander of British forces in North America, Lieutenant General Thomas Gage. Hutchinson left Massachusetts in May 1774, never to return. Andrew Oliver suffered a stroke and died in March 1774.\nGage's implementation of the Coercive Acts further raised tensions that led to the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War in April 1775. Franklin, who had been politically neutral with respect to the colonial radicals prior to his appearance before the Board of Trade, returned to America in early 1775, committed to independence. He went on to serve in the Second Continental Congress and became a leading figure in the American Revolution.\n\nA number of candidates have been proposed as the means by which Benjamin Franklin acquired the letters. John Temple, despite his political differences with Hutchinson, was apparently able to convince the latter in 1774 that he was not involved in their acquisition. He did, however, claim to know who \"was\" involved, but refused to name him, because that would \"prove the ruin of the guilty party.\" Several historians (including Bernard Bailyn and Bernard Knollenberg) have concluded that Thomas Pownall was the probable source of the letters. Pownall was Massachusetts governor before Francis Bernard, had similar views to Franklin on colonial matters, and had access to centers of colonial administration through his brother John, the colonial secretary. Other individuals have also been suggested, but all appear to have an only tenuous connection to Franklin or the situation. Historian Kenneth Penegar believes the question will remain unanswerable unless new documents emerge to shed light on the episode.\n\n\n (Full transcription of 1773 Boston publication)\n"}
{"id": "7894462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7894462", "title": "Independent reading", "text": "Independent reading\n\nIndependent reading is a term used in educational settings, where students are involved in choosing and reading material (fiction books, non-fiction, magazine, other media) for their independent consumption and enjoyment. Students that read independently have an emphasized creative choice in what they want to read and choose to learn. Usually, Independent Reading takes place alongside the ongoing curriculum in the classroom or homeschool. Independent Reading can be tied to assessment and evaluation or remain as an activity in itself. \n\nStudents will\n\nTeachers can\nParents can:\n\n"}
{"id": "11674624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11674624", "title": "International Conference on Web Services", "text": "International Conference on Web Services\n\nThe International Conference on Web Services or ICWS is an international forum for researchers and industry practitioners focused on Web services. ICWS is sponsored by Services Society and the IEEE Computer Society. It has an 'A' rating in the Conference Portal - Core and an 'A' rating in the Excellence in Research for Australia.\n\nICWS features research papers with a wide range of topics, focusing on various aspects of IT services. Some of the topics include Web services specifications and enhancements, Web services discovery and integration, Web services security, Web services standards and formalizations, Web services modeling, Web services-oriented software engineering, Web services-oriented software testing, Web services-based applications and solutions, Web services realizations, semantics in Web services, and all aspects of Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) infrastructure.\n\nThe International Conference on Web Services was founded by Dr. Liang-Jie Zhang in June 2003, Las Vegas, USA. Meanwhile, the first ICWS-Europe 2003 (ICWS-Europe'03), founded by Dr. Liang-Jie Zhang with Prof. Mario Jeckle, was held in Germany in Oct, 2003. In 2004, ICWS-Europe was changed to the European Conference on Web Services (ECOWS), held in Erfurt, Germany. In 2012, ECOWS was formally merged into ICWS. Since then, the entire Services Computing community combined the efforts and focused on one prime international forum for web-based services: ICWS.\n\nFor 2018, there are two ICWS conferences. One is sponsored by the IEEE and the other by the Services Society and Springer.\n\n"}
{"id": "44852441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44852441", "title": "Jeff Weld", "text": "Jeff Weld\n\nJeffrey \"Jeff\" Weld (born August 17, 1960 in Glendale, California) is a science educator serving as Senior Policy Advisor in STEM Education for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, on leave from his post as executive director of the Iowa Governor's STEM Advisory Council which he's occupied since its launch in July, 2011. He is an Associate Professor of Biology at the University of Northern Iowa (UNI) in Cedar Falls, Iowa.\n\nWeld is a prolific author, focusing on surmounting impediments to high quality science teaching. His latest publication, the book Creating a STEM Culture for Teaching and Learning (NSTA Press), examines all aspects of the nation's STEM (science-technology-engineering-mathematics) movement. Formerly a secondary school science teacher he was awarded as Ciba-Geigy 1993 Life Science Teacher of the Year in Iowa, the 1994 Pella Corporation Focus on Teaching Excellence award, and in 1995 a national Access Excellence Fellowship of the Genentech corporation. As a college professor Weld was named national collegiate biology teacher of the year, four-year institutions in 2007 by the National Association of Biology Teachers. In 2013, Weld received an \"Outstanding Service\" award from the Iowa Academy of Science and an \"Alumni Accomplishment Honor\" from his alma mater, the University of Iowa. In 2014, he received a \"STEM Champion\" award from the Triangle Coalition.\n\nWeld is the fifth of six offspring (Vicki, Douglas, Rhonda, Sandra, Eric) of single parent Aileen (Feany) Weld, a career government servant, first for the FBI then for the Veterans Administration, now retired. Weld’s father Don had served in the Marine Corp and written for newspapers. Weld spent his early school years, 1969 to 1977, in Iowa City, Iowa, before relocating to Northampton, Massachusetts, and graduating from Northampton High School in 1978. A first-generation collegian, he attended Greenfield Community College in Massachusetts before transferring to the University of Iowa in 1980. He earned a bachelor of science degree in secondary education from the University of Iowa in 1983. After serving Camp Fire youth camps in Anchorage, Alaska, followed by ski lodge maintenance at Millers Inn, Winter Park, Colorado, he returned to the University of Iowa for graduate study, completing an endorsement in science education (biology) in 1985. From 1990 to 1992 Weld enrolled in the master’s program in biology at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. He completed a master's degree in Science Education at the University of Iowa in 1994. In 1998, Weld completed the doctoral program in Science Education at the University of Iowa under John Penick and Robert Yager, earning competencies in ecology for work in predator-prey aquatic population regulation, and endocrinology for work on molt hormone synthesis in \"Cancer antennarius\".\n\nIn December, 2017, Dr. Weld commenced an appointment to the White House Office of Science And Technology Policy as Senior Policy Advisor for STEM Education. His main responsibility at the OSTP is to lead the development of an updated 2018-2023 Federal STEM Education 5-Year Strategic Plan. He is on leave from directing the Iowa Governor’s STEM Advisory Council, a role he has occupied since the Council's inception in July, 2011. Under Weld's directorship, Iowa showed annual gains in test scores, elective enrollments, post-secondary enrollments, and public support for STEM education. Weld previously directed the inter-university collaborative program the Iowa Mathematics and Science Education Partnership from 2008 to 2011. Weld has hosted an annual Midwest STEM Leaders Forum and served on the Boards of the national organizations the Triangle Coalition for STEM Education and the National Alliance for Partnerships in Equity Education Foundation.\nFrom 2000 to 2008 Dr. Weld occupied a faculty line in the department of biology at the University of Northern Iowa where he created a minor in Natural History Interpretation, taught courses in teacher preparation, published in scholarly and popular press including the popular textbook The Game of Science Education. During his faculty service Weld won $7.2 million in external funding, operated a teachers-in-research program, conducted faculty workshops on interdisciplinarity through Carver Trust grants, presided over the Iowa science teachers association, chaired the campus chapter of the scientific research society Sigma Xi, and served as Provost’s Administrative Fellow for the university’s central administration. \nFrom 1998 to 2000, Dr. Weld was an assistant professor in science education at Oklahoma State University.\nFrom 1985 to 1996 Weld taught high school sciences in Mission, Texas (1985-1988), Kirkwood, Missouri (1988 to 1992), and Pella, Iowa (1992-1996) and coached football, wrestling, baseball, basketball, and soccer. During that time he wrote columns for Educational Leadership and Phi Delta Kappan, among others.\n\nWeld resides in Cedar Falls, Iowa with his wife Mary Kathleen Rovane Weld, and has two grown sons, Andrew (Madison) of St. Paul, Minnesota, and David of Austin, Texas.\n\nWeld is a member of the following organizations:\nSigma Xi scientific research society;\nEpsilon Pi Tau international technology honor society;\nNational Association of Science Writers (NASW);\nAssociation for Science Teacher Education (ASTE); \nNational Science Teachers Association (NSTA);\nComputer Science Teachers Association (CSTA);\nIowa Academy of Science (IAS);\nIowa Council of Teachers of Mathematics (ICTM).\n\n"}
{"id": "48449278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48449278", "title": "Komar University of Science and Technology", "text": "Komar University of Science and Technology\n\nKomar University of Science and Technology (KUST) is a private university located in the city of Sulaimany in Kurdistan region. It was founded in 2009.\n\nKomar University of Science and Technology (KUST) - Sulaimani was established and licensed by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research of the Kurdistan Regional Government, by the official letter no. 17867/7 on October 18, 2009. KUST is a private university governed by a Board of Trustees and run by an Administration Council. Its main campus is located in the city of Sulaimani, in Kurdistan- Iraq.\nKUST offered its first teaching classes in 2010 with an English language summer course (levels 1 and 3).\n\nKUST has three colleges, the College of Business, the College of Engineering, and the College of Sciences.\n\nThe College of Business has four departments:\n\nThe College of Engineering has four departments:\n"}
{"id": "6257594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6257594", "title": "Kroppedal", "text": "Kroppedal\n\nKroppedal Museum in Denmark, from Copenhagen, was established in 2003. Kroppedal is the national museum of Danish astronomy, has a large archaeological unit, and an ethnological unit specializing in modern society. The museum has a permanent exhibition centred on the famous astromer and engineer Ole Rømer (1644-1710), and its collections include his only surviving pendulum clock.\n\n"}
{"id": "42081580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42081580", "title": "List of archives in Albania", "text": "List of archives in Albania\n\nThe Declaration of Independence in 1912 and the subsequent formation of the Independent Albanian State created framework conditions for the organizing and safekeeping of documents. For the first time, the assessment of documents and their administration and preservation is reflected in the highest normative act of the state, enacted in the Provisional Kanun of the Vlora Government (22 November 1913).\nThe first document stored in the Central State Archive, which deals with efforts to create a Central Archive, is the decision dated on 02.01.1932 of the High State Council for reviewing the draft-regulation for the registration of important events. In this draft-regulation, it was foreseen the creation of a General State Archive.\n\nWorld War II slowed down the initiatives undertaken by state authorities for the creation of a centralized system of archives. During this period, documents and records were preserved and managed by the administration of the institution which they belonged to. This collection of documents and records enabled the creation of a large archivial database which became the foundation of a future Central State Archive.\n\nEfforts to create a central archive continued after the war. In 1947, the \"Documentary Archive of the Institute\" was created at the Institute of Studies. It collected a considerable amount of historical documents kept by state institutions or individuals, thus taking on the attributes of a Central Archive, but not with all the features of such an entity.\n\nThe Central State Archive (AQSH) was finally established as a central body, although subordinated to the Institute of Studies, by the Council of Ministers Order No. 21 dated 08.06.1949.\n\nIts creation marked a culminating moment in the history of Albanian archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "42082110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42082110", "title": "List of archives in Finland", "text": "List of archives in Finland\n\nThis is a list of archives in Finland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5127913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5127913", "title": "List of multilingual countries and regions", "text": "List of multilingual countries and regions\n\nThis is an incomplete list of areas with either multilingualism at the community level or at the personal level.\n\nThere is a distinction between social and personal bilingualism. Many countries, such as Belarus, Belgium, Canada, India, Ireland, South Africa and Switzerland, which are officially multilingual, may have many monolinguals in their population. Officially monolingual countries, on the other hand, such as France, can have sizable multilingual populations. Some countries have official languages but also have regional and local official languages, notably Brazil, China, Mexico, Russia, Spain and Taiwan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Although there is a sizable English-speaking population in Quebec, French is the only official language of the provincial government. At the same time, many services are provided in English, such as health services, education, legislative activities and judiciary services. Many government services are available in English and French.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24115503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24115503", "title": "Lorien Novalis School", "text": "Lorien Novalis School\n\nLorien Novalis School for Rudolf Steiner Education is a Steiner School in Dural, New South Wales, Australia. Established in 1971, the school teaches from classes Preschool to Year 12, and offers Playgroup..\n\nLorien Novalis is named after Lothlórien from Tolkien's book \"The Lord of the Rings\" and Novalis, a man who followed the Rudolf Steiner philosophy.\n\nThe school is a member of the Association of Independent Schools NSW & Steiner Education Australia.\n\nThe school grounds are five hectares\nAll students throughout the school follow a universal curriculum including English, Mathematics, Science, Social Science (History & Geography), Art, Music, Craft/Technology, Language, Performing Arts, Eurythmy, and PE/Health/PD. In the high school, students also have the opportunity through an elective program of extension work in various subjects.\n\nStudents who graduate from the school receive the Lorien Novalis Class 12 Certificate of Steiner Education. They continue to access undergraduate university courses through the STAT examination, audition/portfolio and/or interview. Classes 11 and 12 follow the school’s Steiner curriculum, which does cross-map against various Preliminary and HSC subjects. Currently, these courses are credentialed by the Board of Studies NSW, in a Preliminary HSC Record of Achievement for each student. However an ATAR is unachievable even if students complete the required 10 units of subjects.\n\nOnce a term Lorien holds an Insight Day, where prospective parents can come along and find out about what the school has to offer.\n\nAt Lorien, sports are played for enjoyment and overall well-being rather than competition. They include aquatics, athletics, badminton, basketball, dance, soccer, squash, and volleyball. High school students may choose to participate in abseiling, caving, canyoning, or rock climbing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11323390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11323390", "title": "Margie Holmes", "text": "Margie Holmes\n\nMargarita Go-Singco Holmes, popularly known as Dr. Margie Holmes, is a popular psychologist specializing in sex therapy in the Philippines.\n\nHolmes graduated with a degree in Bachelor of Arts in psychology from the University of the Philippines Diliman in 1973. She was one of only seven people to graduate \"magna cum laude\" among more than two thousand who graduated that year. Holmes was adjudged \"Most Outstanding Graduate\" for 1973 by the University of the Philippines Alumni Association.\n\nHolmes was awarded a scholarship grant from the East West Center to study at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where she received a Master of Public Health, major in International Family Planning, with special studies in Sex Therapy and Marriage Counselling.\n\nHolmes capped her credentials with a Doctor of Philosophy in Clinical Psychology from Ateneo de Manila University.\n\nHolmes was elected into membership of international honor societies of Phi Kappa Phi and Pi Gamma Mu.\n\nHolmes has been a professor at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, University of the Philippines, International School, San Carlos Seminary, Ateneo de Manila University and De La Salle University. She also served as a consultant in government and non-government organizations, notably the Population Center Foundation and the Department of Health.\nIn addition to being a frequent lecturer and resource speaker to academic, corporate and socio-civic groups in the Philippines and overseas, she is also currently a professorial lecturer at the Graduate School of Psychology at the Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila.\n\nHolmes created the first-ever Philippine-based show to deal with psychological issues, entitled \"No Nonsense with Dr. Holmes\". She also hosted a segment, \"Magtanong Kay Dra. Holmes\" (Ask Dr. Holmes) which was broadcast twice weekly in \"Teysi ng Tahanan\", a daytime talk-show primarily hosted by veteran comedian and impersonator Tessie Tomas.\n\nHolmes is negotiating a cable show that will be broadcast in the Philippines, Hong Kong, Singapore, Guam, Saipan, Honolulu and California.\n\nHolmes is a regular columnist at \"Abante\", a popular tabloid, \"Business Mirror\" and \"Opinyon\", all in Metro Manila. She has published 21 books to date. As a pioneer, she has written the first books in the Philippines to tackle controversial issues on sex and relationships, homosexuality and clinical depression. Along with her husband, Jeremy Baer, she has co-authored two books: “Love Triangles” and “Imported Love”. They have a weekly column entitled “Two-Pronged” in www.rappler.com, aside from her own column, “Walang Bolahan” for the tabloid, Abante. Her books and columns have been reviewed in international periodicals, such as \"Newsweek\", \"Time\", the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\", Associated Press, Agence France Press, \"Asiaweek\", \"Asia Magazine\" and the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10918796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10918796", "title": "Marilee Jones", "text": "Marilee Jones\n\nMarilee Jones (born June 12, 1951) is a former dean of admissions at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the co-author of the popular guide to the college admission process \"Less Stress, More Success: A New Approach to Guiding Your Teen Through College Admissions and Beyond\" (American Academy of Pediatrics, 2006). The book received critical acclaim and Jones was featured on CBS, National Public Radio, \"USA Today\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"The Boston Globe\". Jones resigned from her position in 2007 when it became known she had fabricated her academic degrees from Union College and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute on a job application in 1979 and she had added a fabricated degree to her resume from Albany Medical College sometime \"after she was hired.\" \"The Times\" characterized Jones's earlier prestige as \"the guru of the movement to tame the college-admissions frenzy.\" \"The Boston Globe\" called her \"the most celebrated and outspoken admissions dean in America.\" After her resignation, she became the number 2 newsmaker of the day on \"COUNTDOWN with Keith Olbermann\" for \"begging college applicants not to pad their resumes\" while having done so herself.\n\nJones was first hired by MIT as an entry-level admissions officer in 1979; she was later promoted to associate director of admissions. She then served as interim dean of admissions from May 1997 until January 1998, when she was appointed to the position full-time.\n\nJones is quoted in Daniel Golden's “The Price of Admission,\" as describing a Korean-American student as “yet another textureless math grind.”\n\nOn April 23, 2007, Jones resigned her position after MIT learned she had fabricated her academic degrees from Union College and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute when she first applied for an entry-level admissions officer position with MIT in 1979 and she had fabricated \"a degree\" from Albany Medical College \"after she was hired.\" MIT administrators were alerted to the discrepancy on or around April 16, 2007. MIT has not released the name of the person or persons who alerted them about Jones's background. Jones issued a statement on the MIT web site, in which she admitted to wrongdoing: \n\nA spokesperson from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute reported on April 26, 2007, that Jones attended the institute as a \"part-time, non-matriculating student\" from September 1974 to June 1975 and did not receive a degree.\nSpokespeople from Union College and from Albany Medical College both reported that there are no records of Jones ever attending either institution. On May 2, 2007, it was reported that she had actually earned a bachelor's degree in biology from The College of Saint Rose in 1973, though she did not list that degree when applying for her first job at MIT or when being considered for subsequent promotions.\n\nWhen Jones was appointed to the position of Dean of Admissions in 1998, she was credited with having earned an \"SB and an SM in biology from Rennselaer Polytechnic Institute\" in an article published in \"The Tech\" as well as an article published by \"MIT Tech Talk\". Neither article made any mention of the degree from Union College which she had placed on her resume in 1979 nor of a Ph.D. credited to her several times in 2007. Shortly before her resignation, she was referred to by the title \"Dr. Marilee Jones\" in a number of forums. A biography of her on the website for the 2007 September Conference of the National Association of College Admission Counselors referred to her as \"Dr. Marilee Jones, Ph.D.\" and credited her with degrees from RPI and Albany Medical in biology and chemistry but offered no further details. She was also referred to as \"Dr. Marilee Jones\" in the local Concord press in April 2007. A February 2007 NPR transcript from \"All Things Considered\" referred to her as \"Dr. Marilee Jones\" (though the audio program itself did not address her as \"Dr\"). And a brief bio of her for an April 17, 2007 speaking engagement at Kean University's Annual School Counselor Conference referred to her as \"Dr. Marilee Jones.\" When asked in a December 6, 2009 interview with the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" about having added \"a degree\" from Albany Medical to her resume \"after she was hired\" by MIT, Jones did not dispute the fact. She could not, however, remember the details.\n\nAfter her departure from MIT Jones created her own consulting firm which provides service for admissions both institutions and applicants. She states she was also offered the position of Dean of Admissions at several undisclosed universities for which she declined.\n\nIn 2008, she hired Rose Marie Terenzio, a public relations consultant who was the former personal assistant of John F. Kennedy Jr, to help her make a \"reclamation,\" a \"comeback.\"\n\nIn 2001, Jones received MIT's Excellence Award for Leading Change, which recognized Jones's leadership as dean of admissions. An excerpt from the presentation reads: \n\nJones also received MIT's Gordon Y. Billard Award \"for special service of outstanding merit performed for the Institute\" in 2006.\n\nJones is divorced from Steven R. Bussolari, an engineer at MIT's Lincoln Laboratory. They have one daughter.\n\nWhile still holding the position of dean of admissions at MIT, Jones delivered a speech at her daughter's 2006 commencement from Middlesex School, advising the graduates to \"create your own reality\" and \"give out what you want to get back\". \n"}
{"id": "56988862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56988862", "title": "Masters of the Elements", "text": "Masters of the Elements\n\nMasters of the Elements is an educational adventure video game developed by IJsfontein Interactive Media, and published by Bombilla (Dutch), Van In (Belgium), VNU Interactive, Tivola (English & German), and Gallimard (French). The game was originally released in November, 1997 and ended up on Macintosh and Windows. \n\nIn the Anglosphere, it was published by Tivola, who had recently published other edutainment titles such as Physicus, Bioscopia, and Chemicus. Originally in Dutch, the game was later translated into English, German, Japanese, French and Italian. The game was voiced by Joost Prinsen and won a BAFTA Award in 1999 after its English-language release.\n\nThe game was created by Jan Willem Huisman, Hayo Wagenaar, and Sander Hassing. The three developers at IJsfontein knew each other from the InterAction Design department of the Utrecht School of the Arts, where they designed the concept of the game. Hajo Wagenaar made all the drawings, Sander Hassing served as programmer, Jan Willem Huisman organised the operation. The came up with the name \"IJsfontein\" during the development of this game, which was their first project; while other development companies had English names they wanted to choose something Dutch-sounding. The game's sound designer came up with \"Ice fountain\" because ice is static while a fountain is dynamic.\n\nWhile getting into large debt, the team was invited to the Cannes expo named Milia, where they set up a stall in a section for young talent. Interest from a Japanese publisher put them in a strong negotiating position with VNU Interactive; while it was standard for the publisher to get rights to the game, the develoeprs refused. They felt the publisher was condescending from their comments that the world does not work the way they think it does. \n\nUpon signing a contract with the Chinese, they discovered VNU still expected the company to lose the copyright due to not meeting a deadline. The team entered into a 'double or nothing' negotiation, whereby failing to complete the titled by 6 October, it would result in heavy royalty regulations. The team ultimately presented a beta version to children at an Amsterdam primary school, after suffering through a panic-stricken September. The game was playtested by children from the top three groups of primary school; the developers noted the potential for the game to be popular with girld due to them finding solutions in a process-wise way, as opposed to boys who will click the screen 10,000 times until something happens. By 2016, 40 people would work at IJsfontein.\n\nIt was one of the first serious games ever to be developed. At the time, IJsfontein was the first Dutch studio to explicitly develop a game with an educational bend. The game attempts to bridge two opposing sides of the video gaming market by offering an experience that is both fun and educational.\n\nIn the Castle of Infinity, there are five masters that bring balance to the elements. When Master of Chance loses his cat, the balance of the elements is disturbed. It is up to the player to collect pages of the Garden of Chance story, which will then cause Master of Chance to reveal clues about the whereabouts of his cat.\n\nThe game is puzzle based, with themes ranging from the natural world to physics to science.\n\nGameboomers felt the puzzles required more dexterity than thought. Feibel felt the game was difficult and beautifully illustrated. The essay \"Op de koffie bij de Meester van Wanhoop \" thought the game demonstrated the wondrous potential of merging art and play in the digital world.\n\nThe game won a BAFTA award and a La Fletche d'Or. The game was nominated for the Bafta for most instructive game for children, and for the most interactive game for children. The game was featured at the IFFR.\n\nThe game was also a commercial success, and become one of the best-selling pieces of Dutch CD-ROM software.\n\n"}
{"id": "13113721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13113721", "title": "Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia", "text": "Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia () is a governmental body responsible for education system and children's services in Georgia. Ministry of Education works under the Minister of Education and Science of Georgia. The ministry is located on Uzandze street in Tbilisi in a historical building built in Mauritanic style. Tamar Sanikidze's resignation was announced on 3 June 2016. Her proposed replacement is Aleksandre Jejelava. \n\n"}
{"id": "18163348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18163348", "title": "Neues Wiener Konservatorium", "text": "Neues Wiener Konservatorium\n\nThe Neues Wiener Konservatorium (New Vienna Conservatory) was a music school established in Vienna by Theobald Kretschmann in 1909. In 1929 it had the largest number of enrolled students during its lifetime.\n\nOther names include \"Privatmusikschule Theobald Kretschmann\" and \"Neues Konservatorium für Musik\".\n\nAmong its faculty were Richard Robert (briefly its director), Simon Pullman and Severin Eisenberger.\n\n"}
{"id": "1046676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1046676", "title": "Nicholas Wolterstorff", "text": "Nicholas Wolterstorff\n\nNicholas Wolterstorff (born January 21, 1932) is an American philosopher. A prolific writer with wide-ranging philosophical and theological interests, he has written books on aesthetics, epistemology, political philosophy, philosophy of religion, metaphysics, and philosophy of education. In \"Faith and Rationality,\" Wolterstorff, Alvin Plantinga, and William Alston developed and expanded upon a view of religious epistemology that has come to be known as Reformed epistemology. He also helped to establish the journal \"Faith and Philosophy\" and the Society of Christian Philosophers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNicholas Wolterstorff lives in Grand Rapids, Michigan with his wife Claire. He has 4 grown children and 1 that died at age 25 while mountain climbing in Austria. He has seven grandchildren.\n\nWhile an undergraduate at Calvin College, Wolterstorff was greatly influenced by professors William Harry Jellema, Henry Stob and Henry Zylstra, who introduced him to schools of thought that have dominated his mature thinking: Reformed theology and common sense philosophy (these have also influenced the thinking of Wolterstorff's friend and colleague Alvin Plantinga, another alumnus of Calvin College).\n\nWolterstorff builds upon the ideas of the Scottish common sense philosopher Thomas Reid, who approached knowledge \"from the bottom-up\". Instead of reasoning about transcendental conditions of knowledge, Wolterstorff suggests that knowledge and our knowing faculties are not the subject of our research but have to be seen as its starting point. Wolterstorff rejects classical foundationalism and instead sees knowledge as based upon insights in reality which are direct and indubitable.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56590380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56590380", "title": "Nicolas Babin", "text": "Nicolas Babin\n\nNicolas Babin (born April 9, 1966) is a French businessman, specialized in gamification, as well as technological innovation. He is best known for being the former CEO of Sony Europe in several departments, including robotics. He is currently at the head of Babin Business Consulting.\n\nNicolas Babin studied at the École supérieure des ingénieurs commerciaux de Bordeaux in computer science. He is the holder of a master in Sales-Marketing.\nHe began his career in 1989 for BNP Paribas as a programmer in San Francisco. He moved to California as a result. In 1992, he left BNP Paribas in order to take the head of the French and German branches for Atwork Health Systems. He then left Atwork in order to take the head of Administration for Cats Software US, thus moving to Palo Alto, in California. He notably contributed to its IPO, before becoming the Managing Director EMEA for Cats Software in London.\n\nNicolas Babin began his career for Sony in 1997, where he became the Managing Director for Sony Europe for Etak a unit of the Sony group specialized in digital mapping in London.\n\nIn 2001, while living in Brussels and being the Managing Director for Sony Entertainment Robot Europe, he contributed to the launch of AIBO, Sony's robotic pets. In 2004 he became the Director of Corporate Communications Sony Europe in Berlin and contributed to the marketing of the most recent Sony products. In 2005, he also contributed to the launch of the PSP in Europe.\n\nIn 2006, during the battery recall controversy that Sony faced (some notebook computers from brands like Toshiba, Dell, Lenovo or Apple were provided with built-in lithium batteries that could provoke fire due to overheating, causing property damage or minor burns, forcing Sony to initiate the biggest recall recall policy in the world at the time), Nicolas Babin was heavily involved in the crisis management.\n\nNicolas Babin left Sony in 2008 in order to join AT Internet, a French company specialized in web analytics, becoming the company Chief Operating Officer. He occupied this post during the Google bug in 2009, or when Microsoft allowed other browsers on their machines. In 2010, he became the Managing Director of the Groupe Concoursmania in France, specialized in online competition and marketing gaming.\nHe notably managed the IPO process of the Groupe Concoursmania, as well as its developpement in Europe.\n\nHe then joined Neopost in 2013, a French company specialized in franking machines or postage meters as the marketing Director and as the head of the group of Digital Solutions. He then left Neopost in 2017.\n\nNicolas Babin is also a board member of several companies, including Commanders Act, Maxicoffee or GamFed, a company he founded in 2012 in order to developp gamification.\n\nIn March 2017, Nicolas Babin founded his own company Babin Business Consulting, specialized in consulting, marketing, innovations and business development, which he presides since then.\n\nNicolas Babin is also the cofounder of Mirambeau AppCare, which product includes DiabiLive, an app allowing diabetics to better cope with their disease, thanks to a personalized monitoring of food and exercise, an optimized insuline dosage management and also a panic button in case of emergency. He also manages the international development of this app, notably in the US, where they are waiting the Food and Drug Administration authorization to be available, but also in Japan. Diabilive won several prizes including the French Concours Lépine, rewarding innovation in 2016, as well as the Consumer Electronics Show Innovation Award in 2018.\n\nNicolas Babin also gave lectures related to marketing and gamification at Epitech or at KEDGE Business School.\n\nDuring the third edition of the Digital week in Bordeaux in 2013, Nicolas Babin participated as a lecturer about gamification.\n\nIn August 2017, he founded with his wife a company specialized in real estate in Bordeaux.\n\nNicolas Babin also writes articles for websites like Gladiacteur or IndieWatch, specialized in marketing and gaming.\n\nNicolas Babin married Sarah E. Ashworth in 1993. They have two children named John and Philippe.\n\n"}
{"id": "20926301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20926301", "title": "Open Source University Meetup", "text": "Open Source University Meetup\n\nThe Open Source University Meet-Up is a student developer organization sponsored by Sun Microsystems that educates its members about open-source technologies through technical demonstrations, access to web courses, and discounts on Sun Certification.\n\nSun started the Open Source University Meet-Up as part of its program to help connect students in computer science to its technologies. Typically led by a campus ambassador or on-campus volunteer, Open Source University Meet-Ups exist in many countries.\n\nThe Open Source University Meet-Up is a place for Sun to connect student developers to Sun’s wide array of open source software platforms, following Sun’s initiatives to open-source all of its software technologies. As a whole it also helps give software developers, students, and other interested people an opportunity to learn more about open source software.\n\nMSDN Academic Alliance\n\n"}
{"id": "2996317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2996317", "title": "Pforta", "text": "Pforta\n\nPforta, or Schulpforta, is a school located in a former Cistercian monastery, Pforta monastery (1137–1540), near Naumburg on the Saale River in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt. \n\nSince the 16th century the site has been a school. Notable past alumni include the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche and the German chancellor Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg. Today, it is a well-known public boarding school for academically gifted children, called Landesschule Pforta. It is coeducational and teaches around 300 high school students. \n\nPforta is proposed for inscription in the World Heritage List as one component of the German nomination Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut. \n\nThe abbey was at first situated in Schmölln on the Sprotta, near Altenburg. In 1127, Count Bruno of Pleissengau founded a Benedictine monastery there and endowed it with 1,100 hides of land. This foundation not being successful, on 23 April 1132, , a relative of Bruno's, replaced the Benedictines by Cistercian monks from Walkenried Abbey. The situation here proved undesirable, and in 1137 Udo transferred the monastery to Pforta, and conferred upon it fifty hides of arable land, an important tract of forest, and two farms belonging to the diocese.\n\nThe patroness of the abbey was the Blessed Virgin Mary. The first abbot was Adalbert, from 1132 to 1152. Under the third abbot, Adetold, two daughter houses were founded under Pforta's auspices, in the Mark of Meissen and in Silesia, and in 1163, the monasteries of Altzella and Leubus were also established in the latter province. At this period the monks numbered about eighty. In 1205, Pforta sent a colony of monks to Livonia, founding there the monastery of Dünamünde. The abbey was distinguished for its excellent system of management, and after the first 140 years of its existence its possessions had increased tenfold.\n\nAt the end of the 13th and the beginning of the 14th centuries, after a period of strife, the monastery flourished again. The last quarter of the 14th century witnessed, however, the gradual decline of its prosperity, and also the relaxation of monastic discipline. When Abbot Johannes IV was elected in 1515, there were forty-two monks and seven lay brothers who later revolted against the abbot; an inspection by Duke George of Saxony reported that morality had ceased to exist in the monastery.\n\nThe last abbot, Peter Schederich, was elected in 1533. When the Catholic Duke George was succeeded by his Protestant brother Henry, the monastery was suppressed on 9 November 1540, with the abbot, eleven monks, and four lay brothers being pensioned off.\n\nIn 1543, Henry's son Duke Moritz opened a national school in the abbey, appropriating for its use the revenues of the suppressed monastery of Memleben Abbey. At first the number of scholars was 100; in 1563 fifty more could be accommodated. The first rector was Johann Gigas, renowned as a lyric poet. Under Justinus Bertuch (1601–1626) the school attained the zenith of its prosperity. It suffered greatly during the Thirty Years' War, in 1643, there being only eleven scholars. After the Napoleonic Wars ended in 1815, Pforta belonged to Prussia, and then to Imperial Germany.\n\nFrom 1935 until 1945 Schulpforta served as a \"Nationalpolitische Erziehungsanstalt\" (NPEA) or National Political Institution of Teaching. As an NPEA the institution was concerned with promoting National Socialist (Nazi) ideals and encouraging boys between the ages of 11 and 18 to pursue occupations (such as work within the Schutzstaffel/SS) which supported the National Socialist cause.\n\nIn 1949, the institute became co-educational. Today the school is maintained by the German state of Saxony-Anhalt, but still supported by its own Schulpforta Foundation.\n\nThe remains of the monastery include the 13th century gothic church; it is a cross-vaulted, colonnaded basilica with an extraordinarily long nave, a peculiar western façade, and a late Romanesque double-naved cloister. What remains of the original building (1137–40) is in the Romanesque style, while the restoration (1251–1268) belongs to the early Gothic. Other buildings are now used as dormitories and lecture halls. There is also the \"Fürstenhaus\" (\"prince's house\"), built in 1573. Schulpforta was one of the three \"Fürstenschulen\" (\"prince's schools\") founded in 1543 by Maurice, Elector of Saxony (at that time Duke), the two others being at Grima and at Meissen.\n\nNotable pupils include:\n\n\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "2417757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2417757", "title": "Pre-medical", "text": "Pre-medical\n\nPre-medical (often referred to as pre-med) is an educational track that undergraduate students in the United States and Canada pursue prior to becoming medical students. It involves activities that prepare a student for medical school, such as pre-med coursework, volunteer activities, clinical experience, research, and the application process. Some pre-med programs providing broad preparation are referred to as “pre-professional” and may simultaneously prepare students for entry into a variety of first professional degree or graduate school programs that require similar prerequisites (such as medical, veterinary, or pharmacy schools).\nAt most colleges and universities, students do not have the option of pre-medical academic major or minor. A student on a pre-med track may choose any undergraduate major in any field, so long as certain required courses are completed. Such courses are generally focused in the scientific fields of biology, chemistry, organic chemistry, neuroscience, and physics, which are necessary to prepare for the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and satisfy most medical school prerequisites. It is for this reason students on a pre-med track generally undertake a major associated with one of those fields; however, an increasing number of students with a background in humanities have been applying in recent years, a situation applauded by medical schools. For example, Mount Sinai School of Medicine has created a program specifically for non-science majors. The Humanities and Medicine Program admits undergraduates majoring in the humanities or social sciences without requiring the MCAT, or science coursework.\n\nTypical pre-med students will structure their coursework in their first year in university to accommodate the required courses. After a semester, many pursue extracurricular activities that demonstrate a commitment to medicine. Once junior year arrives, students register for and take the MCAT, the required standardized exam that medical schools use to identify qualified candidates. Once the test is taken, students apply to various schools using the automated American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS) system, American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine Application Service (AACOMAS) system, or in some cases, the school's own application system. AMCAS primary applications are verified by AMCAS staff, a process that often takes four to six weeks. The application process consists of a review of academic records, MCAT scores, activities, work experience, and a personal statement. Applicants can expect to hear from schools within a few months, at which point they may receive \"secondary applications\". Different schools have different policies on sending secondary applications to students; many send secondary applications to all students, others screen applications prior to inviting an applicant to submit a secondary application. These applications are generated by each individual school. They generally contain essay questions that the applicant must answer to demonstrate that the applicant possesses qualities that the schools deem necessary to be a good medical student and physician. Qualified applicants can next expect to receive invitations to interview at schools. Upon completion of an interview and receipt of any additional application materials, the application is considered to be complete, and the student then waits for the school's decision to either accept or reject the student.\n\nSome applicants receive admittance to medical school through a \"post-baccalaureate\" pre-medical program. These programs may be formal, such as the programs offered through Columbia, Johns Hopkins, Mayo Clinic with Barrett, The Honors College, Bryn Mawr, Goucher and Scripps, or semi-formal, such as the program offered at Harvard, but often consist of a student informally enrolling in a college to complete science coursework required for admission to medical school prior to sitting for the MCAT. The Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) maintains a list of all formal and semi-formal post-baccalaureate pre-medical programs in the United States.\n\nThe AAMC has created a list of required courses that every pre-med student must take. Each school is allowed to place its own further requirements.\n\nThe pre-medical coursework is offered at many American colleges and universities; however, it is considered to be a \"track\" that follows a certain curriculum. Most pre-medical students major in the natural and applied sciences, such as agricultural science, biology, chemistry, or physics, though this is not a requirement. Some pre-professional degree programs in agriculture prepare students for direct entry into the workforce in fields in high demand, while also meeting requirements for medical or veterinary schools. The latter curriculum model is meant to enhance employability of graduates awaiting admission or choosing not to attend professional or graduate school.\n\nThe courses that must be taken to meet the pre-medical requirements from the AAMC are two years of chemistry, with one being in chemistry, one year of biology, and one year of physics. These course requirements are expected to change since the MR5 Committee, charged with revising the MCAT has created a new set of core competencies for success in medical education and practice. Those core competencies will include a greater emphasis on molecular genetics within the biology curriculum and will include biochemistry. In addition, the 2015 MCAT will test in areas related to multicultural sensitivity and in critical analysis of ethics and philosophy. Many colleges of medicine and undergraduate pre-medical advising offices have yet to formalize pre-medical curricular recommendations. Though it did not address changes in the mathematics, physics, psychosocial or humanities portion of pre-medical education, the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (ASBMB) developed a set of pre-medical curricular recommendations. ASBMB advocated that the year of biology includes genetics; that general and organic chemistry be taught with an orientation toward the chemistry of molecules encountered in living things; that one semester of biochemistry be required and two semesters of biochemistry be recommended; and that the laboratory course requirement can be taught in biology, chemistry or biochemistry, so long as research methods and data analysis are emphasized.\n\nPre-medical students may be advised or required to take upper level biology and chemistry electives, such as cellular biology, physical chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology and genetics. Specific requirements for these courses vary by institution. Schools may also have requirements for non-science classes. Some require a certain number of general humanities credits, while others have specific requirements for courses in English, psychology, or other disciplines.\n\nMany pre-medical students volunteer in a health care setting to explore the option of a career in medicine. Past volunteer experience can increase an applicant's chances of acceptance to a medical school. Often volunteer experiences are topics of discussion during medical school interviews. Some students \"shadow\" a physician, where the student follows a physician, directly observing the doctor as they care for patients.\n\nIn Australia and the United Kingdom, a number of universities offer a three or four year Bachelor of Medical Science, Bachelor of Health Sciences or Biomedical Science degree, which is similar in content and aim to pre-med courses in the US. However, it is also possible to gain entry to a professional degree program in medicine (usually the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery degree) directly from High School if the applicant achieves high grades upon graduation and is successful in the Undergraduate Medicine and Health Sciences Admission Test (UMAT), for Australian and New Zealand medicine courses, and the UK Clinical Aptitude Test (UKCAT) and BioMedical Admissions Test (BMAT) for UK medicine courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "48643696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48643696", "title": "Pyongyang Maternity Hospital", "text": "Pyongyang Maternity Hospital\n\nPyongyang Maternity Hospital () is a maternity and teaching hospital in Pyongyang. Nurses and midwives are educated in the hospital for work outside the North Korean capital. There is a neonatal intensive care unit at the hospital. In addition, there are multiple different wards, such as dental and breast cancer wards, to treat mothers' various health problems.\n\nThe hospital employs a unique system of video call booths for family to communicate with a woman who has given birth, as family members are restricted from being in personal contact with the newborn and the mother for five days. It is believed that this helps to prevent infections.\n\nTraditional Korean medicine is used conspicuously in the treatment of patients, and around 30 percent of all given treatments are based on traditional methods.\n\nIn 2012 the hospital was expanded when a new wing specialized for breast cancer was constructed at the hospital grounds by orders of Kim Jong-un.\n\nIn the 1970s, a state policy for maternity issues was initiated. Kim Jong-il decided to build the hospital in 1978, and it was rumored that he wished that no women would die any longer due to pregnancy complications, as his mother Kim Jong-suk had died. The achievement of building the hospital was used as means to emphasize Kim Jong-il's achievements for his confirmed status as a heir apparent.\n\nThe Pyongyang Maternity Hospital was part of the Pyongyang Speed campaign to construct various public facilities for the 6th Congress of the Workers' Party of Korea, which took place on 10–14 October 1980—the congress' beginning coincided with the 35th Party Foundation Day—and the congress was followed by large construction projects continuing into the early 1980s. The hospital was completed in less than nine months. Completed in 1979, the hospital began operating on the 34th anniversary of the Law on Sex Equality on 30 July 1980. The hospital was praised as one of the best in mainland Northeast Asia after opening; the quality of maternity care in the country had improved since the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nAround 2005, nationwide attention was given to maternity hospitals and obstetric and gynecological departments to ensure that a larger proportion of women would receive in-hospital care for childbirth by competent medical staff. The Pyongyang Maternity Hospital's management and facilities were also improved at that time.\n\nIn 2012 the hospital was expanded by Kim Jong-un with a new wing, equipped with modern medical equipment, which houses the Breast Cancer Research Center. The hospital has a personal connection for Kim Jong-un, as it had for his father Kim Jong-il, as Kim Jong-un's mother Ko Yong-hui died due to breast cancer.\n\nHealth services are provided for childbirth, infertility, menstrual disorder, dystonia, chronic inflammatory disease, problems associated with pregnancy and cardiology, neurology, ophthalmology, dentistry, ear, nose and throat, and physiotherapy. In addition, a neonatal intensive care unit operates at the hospital.\n\nThe hospital has 1,500 beds, which include 650 beds for obstetrics patients, 350 for gynecology patients, 57 for general medical care, and 500 for children. Floor space of the hospital is 60,000 m on 13 floors and 2,030 rooms. There is also a library with 100,000 volumes.\n\nThe hospital trains North Korean nurses and midwives for work outside of Pyongyang. North Korean sources claim that women's health care services can be provided via telemedicine to hospitals and clinics outside Pyongyang.\n\nKim Jong-un gave orders to build a new wing for the hospital in 2012. The Breast Cancer Research Center, also known as the Breast Cancer Institute, began operating in this wing on 8 October 2012. The institute has a floor space of 8,500 m on six floors and over 160 rooms. It contains rooms for CT scan and X-ray, and other rooms for medical procedures such as treating tumours. Achieving early diagnosis and regular cancer screening were goals set for the new medical services offered by the institute. There is also office space for research work.\n\nPyongyang Maternity Hospital uses both conventional and traditional medicine to treat patients. The hospital has a Department of Traditional Medicine known as The Koryo Medical Gynecology Department. Traditional medicine is used for treating obstetrics and gynecology patients. A separate pharmacy for herbal medicine exists, and there are facilities for producing traditional medicines within the hospital. A manufacturing unit for herbal medicines maintains extraction, sterilization, and storage units within the hospital.\n\nAround 60 different traditional medicines were in use . Common traditional treatments include cupping therapy, moxibustion, and acupuncture with and without electric charge. Approximately 30 percent of services provided by the hospital are based on traditional medicine.\n\nKim Song-hui is the director of the Pyongyang Maternity Hospital, and the vice-director of the hospital is Han Myong-gun. 70-percent of the staff was female.\n\nThe hospital contains a unique system of visitor booths, which can be accessed directly from the ground floor, to be used by fathers and other family members. This system of closed circuit cameras and televisions is used for video calls. They are meant to protect newborn babies and mothers from infection. Fathers and other visitors may not be in contact with mothers and babies for the first five days after birth, and in the meantime use these booths.\n\nThe Breast Cancer Research Center was featured on the local news in 2012 after it had received two advanced Siemens medical imaging scanners. North Korea Tech speculated from the news that these were Artis and Somatom Emotion type medical scanners. However, modern medical equipment remains rare in the North Korean healthcare system, despite the presence of some advanced equipment from Siemens. old equipment dating back from the 1970s was still in use.\n\nMembers of the NGO \"WomenCrossDMZ\" were told on their visit to the hospital that international sanctions had previously stopped the hospital from obtaining necessary parts for an x-ray machine. Experts have responded unclearly on these claims that the sanctions could cause problems with medicine. However, the x-ray machine contains radioactive materials, which complicates the export of such machines from the United States.\n\n the daily amount of new patients is 400, and it has been estimated that 710,000 children have been born at the hospital. In 2006 around 30 babies were born daily. , 453 triplets have been born in the hospital. The first triplets were born in September 1980.\n\nAll mothers from Pyongyang are admitted to the hospital for their first birth. Any North Korean woman may come to give birth to her first baby in the hospital. Mothers typically stay for ten days after giving birth, and those who give birth through a Caesarean section stay for 15 days. Mothers of triplets are hospitalized until the smallest child weights at least . However, Chinese media claims that access to the hospital requires a correct background (\"Songbun\") or a connection with an employee of the hospital. In addition, the inability of common people to conveniently travel from city to city adds another barrier to access to hospitals with high-quality treatments.\n\nMothers who have given birth to triplets and quadruplets are given gifts. Silver knives are given for boys, and gold rings are given for girls. Clothes and blankets have been also given as gifts. The children born from a multiple birth of three or more are taken from their parents until they are four years old.\n\nLeader Kim Jong-un has visited and given field guidance at the hospital multiple times. Premiers Kim Yong-nam and Choe Yong Rim have also visited. For instance, premier Choe Yong Rim and other party officials attended the opening ceremony of the Breast Cancer Research Center's new wing on 8 October 2012. He made another field inspection on 30 December 2012.\n\nForeigners have been treated at the hospital, and many foreign children have been born here, including South Korean, Palestinian, and Cuban children. The first known South Korean baby to be born in North Korea was born on 10 October 2005 to a mother who had come to watch the Arirang Mass Games. The baby was born on the 60th Party Foundation Day. Foreign tourist groups are sometimes allowed to access the hospital.\n\nLee Hui-ho, the former First Spouse of South Korea, visited on 5 August 2015. Some members of the Namibian delegation led by president Sam Nujoma visited the hospital in November 2000.\n\n\"Our Warm House\", a North Korean medical drama television series filmed in 2000, was set in Pyongyang Maternity Hospital. \n\nThe hospital has commonly appeared in Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) news articles. Many of these news stories are about cases of triplets, and North Koreans are fascinated by triple births. When asked to explain this fascination, the doctors of the hospital explained that the third baby needs extra care as women only have two breasts for two children. As a result, the government provides help for mothers of triplets.\n\nPyongyang Maternity Hospital and North Pyongan Provincial Maternity Hospital were awarded plaques declaring them a \"Baby-Friendly Hospital\" on 5 February 2009 by the UNICEF Thailand office for attaining all ten targets of breastfeeding set by WHO and UNICEF. A reassessment in late 2008 indicated that the hospitals had met the targets. However, South Pyongan Provincial Maternity Hospital, a new candidate for the award, did not meet the breastfeeding standards. Previously the Pyongyang Maternity Hospital and North Pyongan Provincial Maternity Hospital had been awarded in 1996. Director Kim Song-hui stated that in addition to health workers, both community-based and nursery workers will help mothers maintain breastfeeding after their hospital discharge. It was planned that by the end of 2009, there would be seven baby-friendly hospitals in North Korea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2472065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472065", "title": "Raymond Durgnat", "text": "Raymond Durgnat\n\nRaymond Durgnat (1 September 1932 – 19 May 2002) was a British film critic, who was born in London of Swiss parents. During his life he wrote for virtually every major English language film publication. In 1965 he published the first major critical essay on Michael Powell, who had hitherto been \"fashionably dismissed by critics as a 'technician’s director'\", as Durgnat put it.\n\nHis many books include \"Films and Feelings\" (1967), \"A Mirror for England: British Movies from Austerity to Affluence\" (1970), and \"The Strange Case of Alfred Hitchcock\" (1974). He wrote principally for \"Films and Filming\" (in the 1960s), \"Film Comment\" (in the 1970s) and \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" (in the 1980s), and taught at various art schools and universities, notably St Martin's College and the Royal College of Art, where his students included Tony Scott. Toward the end of his life he was visiting professor at the University of East London.\n\nDurgnat was born in London in 1932 to Swiss parents who had emigrated to England in 1924. Durgnat's family was of French Huguenot descent, and he was raised in a religious Calvinist household. Durgnat's father worked as a window dresser but lost his job in 1932; afterwards, he opened a drapery shop.\n\nHe was educated at the Sir George Monoux School, a state grammar school in Walthamstow, before serving his statutory two years of National Service, which he spent in the Education Corps in Hong Kong, then a British possession. After leaving the army in 1954, he studied English Literature at Pembroke College, Cambridge. With the filmmaker Don Levy, Durgnat became one of the first post-graduate students of film in Britain, studying under Thorold Dickinson (director of \"Gaslight\" and \"The Next of Kin\") at the Slade School of Fine Art from 1960. The thesis he wrote there provided the source material for a number of his books.\n\nIn the early 1950s, he had written for \"Sight and Sound\", but fell out with this British Film Institute publication after the exit of Gavin Lambert in 1957, often accusing it of elitism, puritanism, and upper-middle-class snobbery, notably in his 1963 essay \"Standing Up For Jesus\" (which appeared in the short-lived magazine \"Motion\", which he co-edited with Ian Johnson) and in his 1965 piece \"Auteurs and Dream Factories\" (an edited version of which later appeared in \"Films and Feelings\"). From 1960 he was a regular presence in the monthly \"Films and Filming\", writing reviews and serial essays.\n\nIn 1966–7 he was a major player in the nascent London Film-Makers' Co-op (LFMC), then based at Better Books on Charing Cross Road, a hub of the emerging British underground. As the LFMC's chairman he was instrumental in promoting filmmakers such as Jeff Keen and Stephen Dwoskin, writing the first articles on both.\n\nThe rise of structural film (at the LFMC) and of structuralism (in the journal \"Screen\") – and the far-left politics which accompanied the latter – saw Durgnat become an outsider figure within British film culture. In 1973 he moved to Canada, beginning a peripatetic teaching career in North America which took him to New York, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. In the late 1970s he taught film at the University of California, San Diego alongside Manny Farber, Jean-Pierre Gorin and Jonathan Rosenbaum.\n\nReturning to London at the close of the decade, he launched a series of withering assaults on the linguistics-based film theory that had come to dominate film academia over the previous decade; perhaps as a result, he did not published another new book until 1999. He did, however, return to write for the BFI publication \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" in the years before its merger with \"Sight and Sound\" in 1991, and contributed to that publication again later in the 1990s.\n\nHis last two books, including \"A Long Hard look at Psycho\", were also published by the BFI. \"The Essential Raymond Durgnat\", published in 2014 – again by the BFI – contains previously unpublished work, including a translation of an essay originally published in \"Positif\" on Michael Powell, on whom Durgnat began but did not complete a full-length book. It also includes such rare pieces as \"Standing Up for Jesus\". The collection was described by Adrian Martin as \"the essential film book of this or almost any year\".\n\nDurgnat's socio-political approach – strongly supportive of the working classes and, almost as a direct result of this, American popular culture, and dismissive of left-wing intellectuals whom he accused of actually being petit-bourgeois conservatives in disguise, and dismissive of overt politicisation of film criticism, refusing to bring his own left-wing views overtly into his writings on film – can best be described as \"radical populist\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5613921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613921", "title": "Rehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology Society of North America", "text": "Rehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology Society of North America\n\nRehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology Society of North America (RESNA) is an association of people with an interest in technology and disability. Its mission statement notes that RESNA's mission is to improve the potential of people with disabilities to achieve their goals through the use of technology through promoting research, development, education, advocacy and provision of technology; and by supporting the assistive technology service providers engaged in these activities.\n\nRESNA was started in August 1979. In 1993 RESNA became a self-managed organization. RESNA has over 1,000 members, the bulk of whom are concentrated in the US and Canada.\n\nBeginning in 1995, RESNA developed certification programs for credentialing professionals working as assistive technology service providers. These certification programs are administered through RESNA's Professional Standards Board (PSB), which includes representatives from RESNA, the National Registry of Rehabilitation Technology Suppliers (NRRTS), and consumers. In December 2015, the Rehabilitation Engineering Assistive Technology Society of North America (RESNA) updated the WC18 standards for wheelchair tie-down and occupant restraint systems (WTORS)standards for wheelchair tie-down and occupant restraint systems (WTORS).\nRESNA is governed by a 14-member Board of Directors. The president is Roger O. Smith, PhD, OT, FAOTA, RESNA Fellow\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1656053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1656053", "title": "Reza Aslan", "text": "Reza Aslan\n\nReza Aslan (, ; born May 3, 1972) is an Iranian-American author, public intellectual, religious studies scholar, producer, and television host. He has written three books on religion: \"\", \"Beyond Fundamentalism: Confronting Religious Extremism in the Age of Globalization\", and \"\". Aslan is a member of the American Academy of Religion, the Society of Biblical Literature, and the International Qur'anic Studies Association. He is also a professor of creative writing at University of California, Riverside. He is also currently a board member of the National Iranian American Council (NIAC).\n\nAslan's family came to the United States from Tehran in 1979, fleeing the Iranian Revolution. He grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area. He attended Del Mar High School in San Jose, and graduated class of 1990. In the early 1990s, Aslan taught courses at De La Salle High School in Concord, California.\n\nAslan holds a B.A. in religious studies from Santa Clara University, a Master of Theological Studies (MTS) from Harvard Divinity School, a Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) in fiction writing from the University of Iowa's Writers' Workshop, and a PhD in sociology from the University of California, Santa Barbara. His 2009 dissertation, titled \"Global Jihadism as a Transnational Social Movement: A Theoretical Framework\", discussed contemporary Muslim political activism.\n\nIn August 2000, while serving as the Truman Capote Fellow at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, Aslan was a visiting faculty member in Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Iowa.\n\nAslan was the 2012–13 Wallerstein Distinguished Visiting Professor at the Drew University Center on Religion, Culture & Conflict.\n\nAn Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations from 2012 to 2013, he is also a member of the Los Angeles Institute for the Humanities, and the Pacific Council on International Policy. He has served as Legislative Assistant for the Friends Committee on National Legislation in Washington D.C., and was elected President of Harvard's Chapter of the World Conference of Religions for Peace. Aslan also serves on the board of directors of the Ploughshares Fund, which gives grants for peace and security issues, PEN Center USA, a writer's advocacy group, and he serves on the national advisory board of The Markaz (formerly the Levantine Cultural Center), a program to promote peace between Americans and the Arab/Muslim world. He also serves on the board of trustees for the Chicago Theological Seminary and is on the advisory board of the Yale Humanist Community.\n\nAslan was born into a Shia Muslim family. He converted to evangelical Christianity at the age of 15, and converted back to Islam the summer before attending Harvard. In 2005 \"The Guardian\" called him \"a Shia by persuasion\". In a 2013 interview with WNYC host Brian Lehrer, Aslan said: \"I'm definitely a Muslim and Sufism is the tradition within Islam that I most closely adhere to.\" He also proclaims himself a \"genuinely committed disciple of Jesus of Nazareth.\" In a 2013 article in \"The Washington Post\", Aslan states: \"It's not [that] I think Islam is correct and Christianity is incorrect. It's that all religions are nothing more than a language made up of symbols and metaphors to help an individual explain faith.\" In 2014, in an interview with Cenk Uygur of \"The Young Turks\", Aslan described Islam as:\n\na man-made institution. It's a set of symbols and metaphors that provides a language for which to express what is inexpressible, and that is faith. It's symbols and metaphors that I prefer, but it's not more right or more wrong than any other symbols and metaphors. It's a language, that's all it is. \n\nAslan has published three books, edited two anthologies and writes frequently for different media outlets.\n\n\"No god but God: The Origins, Evolution, and Future of Islam\" is a non-fiction book published in 2005. The book describes the history of Islam and argues for a liberal interpretation of the religion. It blames Western imperialism and self-serving misinterpretations of Islamic law by past scholars for the current controversies within Islam, challenging the \"clash of civilizations\" thesis.\n\nIn 2009, Aslan published his second book, \"How to Win a Cosmic War: God, Globalization, and the End of Terror.\" The following year, it was rereleased in paperback as \"Beyond Fundamentalism: Confronting Religious Extremism in the Age of Globalization.\" The book is both an in-depth study of the ideology fueling Al Qaeda, the Taliban and like-minded militants throughout the Muslim world, and an exploration of religious violence in Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The author argues that the United States, by infusing the War on Terror with its own religiously polarizing rhetoric, is fighting a similar war - a war that he asserts can't be won.\n\nAslan refers to Al Qaeda's jihad against the west as \"a cosmic war\", distinct from holy war, in which rival religious groups are engaged in an earthly battle for material goals. \"A cosmic war is like a ritual drama in which participants act out on earth a battle they believe is actually taking place in the heavens.\" American rhetoric of \"war on terrorism\", Aslan says, is in precise \"cosmic dualism\" to Al Qaeda's jihad. Aslan draws a distinction between Islamism and Jihadism. Islamists have legitimate goals and can be negotiated with, unlike Jihadists, who dream of an idealized past of a pan-Islamic, borderless \"religious communalism\". Aslan's prescription for winning the cosmic war is not to fight, but rather to engage moderate Islamic political forces in the democratic process. \"Throughout the Middle East, whenever moderate Islamist parties have been allowed to participate in the political process, popular support for more extremist groups has diminished.\"\n\n\"The New Yorker\" called Beyond Fundamentalism a \"thoughtful analysis of America's War on Terror\". The Washington Post added that it \"offers a very persuasive argument for the best way to counter jihadism.\"\n\nIn 2013, Aslan published \"Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth,\" an historical account of the life of Jesus, which analyzes the various religious perspectives on Jesus, as well as the creation of Christianity. In the book, Aslan argues that Jesus was a political, rebellious and eschatological (end times) Jew whose proclamation of the coming kingdom of God was a call for regime change that would end Roman hegemony over Judea and end a corrupt and oppressive aristocratic priesthood.\n\nAslan has written articles for \"The Daily Beast\" as a contributing editor. He has also written for various newspapers and periodicals, including the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\", \"Slate\", \"The Boston Globe\", \"The Guardian\", \"The Nation\", and \"The Christian Science Monitor\".\n\n\"Tablet and Pen: Literary Landscapes from the Modern Middle East\", an anthology edited and published by him, appeared in 2011. In collaboration with Words Without Borders, Aslan worked with a team of three regional editors and seventy-seven translators, amassing a collection of nearly 200 pieces originally written in Arabic, Persian, Urdu and Turkish, many presented in English for the first time.\n\n\"Muslims and Jews in America: Commonalities, Contentions, and Complexities\" (2011 ) coedited with Abraham's Vision founder Aaron J. Hahn Tapper, is a collection of essays exploring contemporary Jewish-Muslim relations in the United States and the distinct ways in which these two communities interact with one another in that context.\n\nAslan founded Aslan Media, a media platform offering alternative coverage of the Middle East and its global diaspora communities.\n\nIn 2006, Aslan teamed up with Iranian American cinematographer and producer Mahyad Tousi to create BoomGen Studios, a studio and production company focused to bring stories from and about the Middle East to American audiences. Projects that they consulted on include National Geographic's \"Amreeka\"; Disney's \"\" and the Broadway adaptation of \"Aladdin\"; the Weinstein Company's \"Miral\"; Relativity Media's \"Desert Dancer\"; Fork Films' \"The Trials of Spring\"; Jon Stewart's directorial debut \"Rosewater\"; and 2014 Oscar-nominated documentary \"The Square\".\n\nIn January 2015, BoomGen announced that ABC picked up its biblical epic, \"Of Kings and Prophets\", a dramatic retelling of the central story in the Hebrew Bible: the story of King David from shepherd to king. The series followed an ensemble of characters including Saul and David, the successive Kings of Israel, their families, and their political rivals. \"Of Kings and Prophets\" was set in the Kingdom of Israel, but filmed in Cape Town, South Africa. Aslan, Tousi and Jason Reed served as executive producers on the show.\n\nIn 2015, Aslan joined popular HBO series \"The Leftovers\" as a consulting producer for both its second and third seasons. In addition to helping to craft the foundation of the show, Aslan was integral in protagonist Kevin Garvey's season two character arc.\n\nIn March 2016, cable network Ovation premiered \"Rough Draft with Reza Aslan\", a fast-paced and timely talk show featuring Aslan in conversation with critically acclaimed authors and writers in film, TV and journalism.\n\nIn 2015, Aslan began production for \"spiritual travel series\" \"Believer\", a documentary series that follows Aslan as he immerses himself and experiences various religious traditions all over the world, focusing on sects considered fringe and disreputable by larger religions. The program, which Aslan compared to \"\" was part of CNN's original programming lineup and premiered in March 2017.\n\nThe first episode focused on the Aghori sect of Hinduism. This led to controversy with accusations of sensationalism and anti-Hinduism when Aslan ate part of a human brain while meeting Aghori sadhus. The United States India Political Action Committee said in a statement that \"[w]ith multiple reports of hate-fueled attacks against people of Indian origin from across the U.S., the show characterizes Hinduism as cannibalistic, which is a bizarre way of looking at the third largest religion in the world.\" Vamsee Juluri, professor of media studies at the University of San Francisco, described the episode as \"reckless, racist, and anti-immigrant\", while Aseem Shukla of the Hindu American Foundation accused Aslan of being \"poorly informed\", circulating \"common stereotypical misconceptions\" about Hinduism and indulging in \"religion porn\" \"to grab ratings\", with the \"most clichéd, spurious conflations of the Hindu religion with the caste system\".\n\nUS Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard compared the show to \"touring a zoo\". The show has also been criticized for saying that Varanasi was called \"the city of the dead\", calling the immersion of ashes \"dumping\", presenting the Aghors as an exception in their struggle against the caste system, and claims he misunderstood the distinction between Varna and Jāti, and the notion of God in Hinduism. The organizations American Hindus Against Defamation (AHAD) and the Hindu American Foundation (HAF) have also both questioned why Aslan's show does not cover Islam, his own religion. Aslan said that he had planned to cover the Ashura festival in Pakistan, but abandoned the plan because of insurance costs. He pledged to cover Islam if \"Believer\" had a second series. On June 9, 2017, CNN announced that it has \"decided to not move forward with production\" on Aslan's \"Believer\" series after his profane anti-Trump tweets were widely criticized earlier in the week.\n\nAslan has defended the episode on Facebook.\n\nAfter the June 2017 London Bridge attack Aslan took to Twitter to call President Trump \"a piece of shit\" and a \"man baby\" for his response to the attack. On June 9, 2017, in response to his remarks, CNN decided to cut ties with Aslan and announced they would not move forward with season two of the \"Believer\" series. Aslan said of the cancellation, \"I am not a journalist. I am a social commentator and scholar. And so I agree with CNN that it is best that we part ways.\"\n\nAslan has made numerous appearances on TV and radio, including National Public Radio (NPR), \"Spirited Debate\" on Fox News, PBS, \"The Rachel Maddow Show\", \"Meet the Press\", \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\", \"The Colbert Report\", \"Anderson Cooper 360°\", \"Hardball\", \"Nightline\", \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", \"Fareed Zakaria GPS\", and \"ABC Australia's\" \"Big Ideas\".\n\nOn 26 July 2013, Aslan was interviewed on \"Spirited Debate\", a Fox News webcast by Chief Religion Correspondent Lauren Green about his book \"\". Green was \"unsatisfied with Aslan's credentials,\" and she pressed Aslan, questioning why a Muslim would write about Jesus. Aslan answered, \"Because it's my job as an academic. I am a professor of religion, including the New Testament. That's what I do for a living, actually.\" The interview lasted about ten minutes and focused \"on Aslan's background more than the actual contents of the book.\" The video clip of the interview went viral within days and the book, which was up to that point selling \"steadily\", appeared at the 4th place on the \"New York Times\" print hardcover best-seller list. By late July 2013, it was topping the U.S. best-seller list on Amazon.\n\nFollowing Aslan's interview with Fox News, Elizabeth Castelli, professor of religion at Barnard College, Columbia University, reported a sense of outrage in academia, writing \"Those of us in the academic field of religious studies, especially biblical scholars and historians of early Christianity, found the whole business deeply cringe-worthy. The Fox News interview was not just embarrassing but downright offensive. The anti-Muslim bias of Fox is well-documented and is bad enough, whatever the specific context. For scholars of religion, Green's conflation of the academic study of religion with personal religious identification is a familiar misunderstanding.\"\n\nDespite Elizabeth Castelli's dismissal of Fox News for questioning Aslan as a religious scholar as she acknowledged Aslan could claim as a scholar of \"history-of-religions\", she dismissed his claims of being a historian. She wrote \"\"History of religions\" is [...] a particular disciplinary approach[...] often associated in the United States with the University of Chicago and the University of California at Santa Barbara, where Aslan earned his PhD in sociology. To the extent that he did coursework in the UCSB Religious Studies department, he can certainly lay claim... But his claims are more grandiose than that and are based on his repeated public statements that he speaks with authority as a historian. He has therefore reasonably opened himself to criticism.\" \"The Atlantic\" concurred with Prof. Castelli's acknowledgment on Aslan's religious credentials.\n\nIn \"The Washington Post\", the journalist Manuel Roig-Franzia concurred with Prof. Castelli's critique of Aslan's historian credentials, noting that Aslan's university does not offer degrees in the history or the sociology of religion and writing that Aslan \"boasts of academic laurels he does not have.\" However, he quoted Aslan's dissertation adviser, Mark Juergensmeyer, who acknowledged that their departments \"don't have a degree in sociology of religions as such\" but said that he \"doesn't have a problem with Aslan's characterization of his doctorate, noting... [Aslan] did most of his course work in religion\" and his arrangement of getting Aslan out of the religious studies department into the sociology department \"was undertaken to get Aslan out of time-consuming required language courses\". The \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" also noted UCSB \"is famous for its interdisciplinary program—students tailor their studies around a topic, not a department. They choose a department only for the diploma.\"\n\nAslan is a sitting member of the advisory board for the National Iranian American Council. In 2015 as a member of the group, he joined with 73 other \"prominent International Relations and Middle East scholars\" in signing a statement of support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, an international agreement regarding the Iranian nuclear program.\n\nAslan refers to Al Qaeda's \"jihad\" against the west as \"a cosmic war\", distinct from holy war, in which rival religious groups are engaged in an earthly battle for material goals. \"A cosmic war is like a ritual drama in which participants act out on earth a battle they believe is actually taking place in the heavens.\" American rhetoric of \"war on terrorism\", Aslan says, is in precise \"cosmic dualism\" to Al Qaeda's \"jihad\". Aslan draws a distinction between Islamism and Jihadism. Islamists have legitimate goals and can be negotiated with, unlike Jihadists, who dream of an idealized past of a pan-Islamic, borderless \"religious communalism\". Aslan's prescription for winning the cosmic war is not to fight, but rather to engage moderate Islamic political forces in the democratic process. \"Throughout the Middle East, whenever moderate Islamist parties have been allowed to participate in the political process, popular support for more extremist groups has diminished.\"\n\nAslan has argued for religious freedom and protection for religious minorities throughout the Middle East. He has called for Iran to protect and stop the \"horrific human rights abuses\" against its Baha'i community. Aslan has also said that the persecution and displacement of Middle Eastern Christian communities \"is nothing less than a regional religious cleansing that will soon prove to be a historic disaster for Christians and Muslims alike.\"\n\nIn a 2014 interview, Aslan criticized the \"armchair atheism\" of atheists like Sam Harris and Bill Maher for not having a formal background in the study of religion, and who in Aslan's opinion are therefore unable to effectively comment on how it shapes human behavior. Aslan has also referred to Richard Dawkins as a \"buffoon, embarrassing himself every day.\" He contrasted New Atheists to the \"philosophical atheism\" of earlier thinkers who \"were experts in religion, and so they were able to offer critiques of it that came from a place of knowledge, from a sophistication of education, of research.\"\n\nOn 29 September 2014, Antonia Blumberg in \"The Huffington Post\" stated that Reza Aslan, on CNN, \"criticized comedian Bill Maher for characterizing female genital mutilation as an 'Islamic problem,' in addition to making several other sweeping generalizations about the faith.\" Aslan was reported as saying that \"To say 'Muslim countries', as though Pakistan and Turkey are the same... it's frankly, and I use this word seriously, stupid!\" His criticism was not just of Maher, but of the overall way Muslims are portrayed in mainstream media. Prachi Gupta, in \"Salon\", wrote that Reza Aslan believed that the United States was partnering with Saudi Arabia while simultaneously condemning ISIS.\n\nOn 8 October 2014, Aslan published a \"New York Times\" article titled, \"Bill Maher Isn't the Only One Who Misunderstands Religion\" writing that, \"Bill Maher is right to condemn religious practices that violate fundamental human rights. Religious communities must do more to counter extremist interpretations of their faith. But failing to recognize that religion is embedded in culture—and making a blanket judgment about the world's second largest religion—is simply bigotry.\"\n\nWriting in \"New Republic\", Eric Sasson took issue with Aslan's claim in the CNN interview that men and women are treated equally in Indonesia and Turkey due to the countries having elected female leaders, pointing out that the Human Rights Watch reported a \"significant rollback\" of women's rights in both countries. Sasson also challenged Aslan's statement that female genital mutilation is only a problem in Central Africa, stating that it's also an issue in the predominantly Muslim country of Malaysia, which is in Asia. The television and radio host David Pakman also cast doubt on some of Aslan's claims from the CNN interview. Sam Harris criticized Aslan for blaming individuals rather than Islam as a whole for violence in the Muslim world, calling his approach \"post-modernist nonsense.\"\n\nAslan and his ex-fiancée, journalist Amanda Fortini, ended their engagement in 2008. He married entrepreneur and author, Jessica Jackley, a Christian, in 2011 together forming an interfaith family. They have three sons. His aunt is famed Iranian-American pop singer, Leila Forouhar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47795814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47795814", "title": "Rotation model of learning", "text": "Rotation model of learning\n\nThe rotation model of learning involves the traditional face-to-face learning with online learning. In this, the time schedule is divided and fixed between these two processes or it runs on the teacher's discretion for a given course. The classroom teacher usually monitors both the face-to-face and online learning, and the online learning takes place on a one-to-one basis. Students rotate across online learning, small group instruction and pencil-pen assignments. This model includes four sub-models:\nStation rotation, lab-rotation, and flipped-classroom rotation are to be considered truly blended or hybrid classrooms while individual-rotation model borders on a more typical online classroom. Station, lab, and flipped-classroom rotations are considered to be blended, or hybrid classrooms, because they meet the four criteria; they represent an integration of old and new styles, they are designed with traditional mainstream curriculum in mind with the addition of online content, they keep students in their seats in traditional brick-and-mortar classrooms, and they are not simpler versions of the class but integrated classrooms where the teacher still needs expertise from traditional styles. The individual-rotation model, while considered a blended classroom, really falls closer to online learning. The curriculum is built for the individual, meaning that students could independently work completely online if this style suits them.\n\nOver all the rotation model of learning consists of the following components:\n\nIn the rotation model, teachers navigate the program in such a way that they would be aware of the issues faced by the students during their independent work time, which helps in designing assessment tools to monitor their students' learning path. \nTeachers should follow certain guidelines to assist the students to use computers effectively, appropriately and safely.\nTeachers should be always prepared for technical issues or the power outages coming up between or before the class.\nThey should address the behaviour of the students on the computer.\nThe physical layout of the class should be designed for the transition happening during the rotations.\n\nThis model helps the students to receive differentiated experiences from face-to-face learning to online learning along with independent and collaborative practice.\nThis model helps students to learn on their own pace and researchers have shown that these students out performs the students who have exposure only to one type of instruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "11128526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11128526", "title": "Scientifically based research", "text": "Scientifically based research\n\nScientifically based research (SBR) is the required standard in professional development and the foundation of academic instruction under the guidelines of No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB).\n\nThe definition of what should be considered to be \"scientifically based\" has been the subject of a great deal of controversy, particularly relating to the Reading First program authorized under NCLB. The first time the concept appeared in Federal legislation was in the Reading Excellence Act, and subsequently the term appeared in the Comprehensive School Reform program authorized for many years on the annual appropriations bills.\n\nNCLB, however, marked the first time that the idea that education practice should be scientifically based became a central feature of major federal education legislation. Within the Act, the Reading First program became the standard bearer for this concept – or its misapplication. After publishing a series of 7 reports on the mismanagement of Reading First – and referring the matter to the Justice Department – the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) requested that the US Congress clarify what is meant by scientifically based, and whether it is sufficient to contain elements that have been researched, or whether it's necessary for a program's efficacy to have itself been researched.\n\nSince the 2001 passage of NCLB, various efforts have been undertaken both by the US government and by private businesses to create databases of such scientifically based, or scientifically proven, programs. Examples of these databases include the What Works Clearinghouse, a program of the federal Institute of Education Sciences that has been criticized for its questionable standards and extremely slow review process; the Doing What Works web site, an attempt to address criticisms of the WWC; and the Best Evidence Encyclopedia, a grant-funded site operating under the Center for Data-Driven Reform in Education. This site, known as the BEE, synthesizes the available research on specific education programs in several formats, including summaries directed to educators. \n\n"}
{"id": "2424129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2424129", "title": "Sluggish cognitive tempo", "text": "Sluggish cognitive tempo\n\nSluggish cognitive tempo (SCT) is the term for a syndrome that may comprise a novel and distinct attention disorder from ADHD. Symptoms of it include dreaminess, mental fogginess, hypoactivity, sluggishness, staring frequently, inconsistent alertness and a slow working speed.\n\nSCT has been a subject of controversy for decades and debate about its nature still continues. But it is clear now that this set of symptoms is important because it significantly adds to impairment in ADHD and independently predicts a low quality of life. Some have encouraged the use of the term concentration deficit disorder (CDD) for SCT because it may be more appropriate and less derogatory.\n\nOriginally, SCT was thought to be entirely limited to about 1/3 of the inattentive subtype of ADHD and being apparently incompatible with hyperactivity. But new studies showed that it is also seen in some with the other two ADHD subtypes – and in individuals without ADHD as well. Therefore, some psychologists and psychiatrists think it should be its own mental disorder. Others dismiss it altogether or believe it is a separate symptom group within ADHD (like Hyperactivity, Impulsivity or Inattention). It even may be useful as a transdiagnostic concept that is shared among different mental disorders (like emotional dysregulation, for example, which cuts across many disorders).\n\nADHD is the only disorder of attention currently defined by the DSM-5 or ICD-10. Formal diagnosis is made by a qualified professional. It includes demonstrating six or more of the following symptoms of inattention or hyperactivity-impulsivity (or both).\nThe symptoms must also be age inappropriate, start before age 12, occur often and be present in at least two settings. They must clearly interfere with social, school, or work functioning and not be better explained by another mental disorder. Based on the above symptoms, three types of ADHD are defined:\n\n\nSCT is proposed to be a similar disorder to the predominantly inattentive presentation (ADHD-I), but can be distinguished from it by the very different symptoms shown below who were developed by leading researchers.\nAs a comparison of both tables shows, there is no overlap between the official ADHD-I symptoms and those for SCT (although both may exist in parallel within the same person). Yet, one problem is still that some individuals who actually have SCT are currently misdiagnosed with the inattentive presentation. \n\nIn many ways, those who have an SCT profile have some of the opposite symptoms of those with classic ADHD: instead of being hyperactive, extroverted, obtrusive, excessively energetic and risk takers, those with SCT are drifting, absent-minded, listless, introspective and daydreamy. They feel as if \"in the fog\" and seem \"out of it\".\n\nThe comorbid psychiatric problems often associated with SCT are more often of the internalizing types, such as anxiety, unhappiness or depression. Most consistent across studies was a pattern of reticence and social withdrawal in interactions with peers. Their typically shy nature and slow response time has often been misinterpreted as aloofness or disinterest by others. In social group interactions, those with SCT may be ignored. People with classic ADHD are more likely to be rejected in these situations, because of their social intrusiveness or aggressive behavior. Compared to children with SCT, they are also much more likely to show antisocial behaviours like substance abuse, oppositional-defiant disorder or conduct disorder (frequent lying, stealing, fighting etc.). Fittingly, in terms of personality, ADHD seems to be associated with sensitivity to reward and fun seeking while SCT may be associated with punishment sensitivity.\n\nThose with SCT symptoms may show a qualitatively different kind of attention deficit that is more typical of a true information input-output problem, such as poor focusing of attention on details or the capacity to distinguish important from unimportant information rapidly. In contrast, people with ADHD have more difficulties with persistence of attention and action toward goals coupled with impaired resistance to responding to distractions. Unlike SCT, they also have no difficulty processing information or selecting and filtering sensory input. Instead, those with classic ADHD have problems with inhibition.\n\nSome think that SCT and ADHD produce two different kinds of inattention: While those with ADHD can engage their attention but fail to sustain it over time, people with SCT seem to have difficulty with engaging their attention to a specific task. Accordingly, the attentional style in SCT may be more halting and sluggish, whereas in ADHD it is jumpy and flighty.\n\nBoth disorders interfere significantly with academic performance but may do so by different means. SCT may be more problematic with the accuracy of the work a child does in school and lead to making more errors. Conversely, ADHD may more adversely affect productivity which represents the amount of work done in a particular time interval. Children with SCT seem to have more difficulty with consistently remembering things that were previously learned and make more mistakes on memory retrieval tests than do children with ADHD. They have been found to perform much worse on psychological tests involving perceptual-motor speed or hand-eye coordination and speed. They also have a more disorganized thought process, a greater degree of sloppiness, and lose things more easily. The risk for additional learning disabilities seems equal in both ADHD and SCT (23–50%) but math disorders may be more frequent in the SCT-group.\n\nA key behavioral characteristic of those with SCT symptoms is that they are more likely to appear to be lacking motivation and may even have an unusually higher frequency of daytime sleepiness. They seem to lack energy to deal with mundane tasks and will consequently seek to concentrate on things that are mentally stimulating perhaps because of their underaroused state. Alternatively, SCT may involve a pathological form of excessive mind-wandering.\n\nThe executive system of the human brain provides for the cross-temporal organization of behavior towards goals and the future and coordinates actions and strategies for everyday goal-directed tasks. Essentially, this system permits humans to self-regulate their behavior so as to sustain action and problem solving toward goals specifically and the future more generally. Dysexecutive syndrome is defined as a \"cluster of impairments generally associated with damage to the frontal lobes of the brain\" which includes \"difficulties with high-level tasks such as planning, organising, initiating, monitoring and adapting behaviour\". Such executive deficits pose serious problems for a person's ability to engage in self-regulation over time to attain their goals and anticipate and prepare for the future.\n\nAdele Diamond postulated that the core cognitive deficit of those with ADHD-I is working memory, or, as she coined in her recent paper on the subject, \"childhood-onset dysexecutive syndrome\". However, two more recent studies by Barkley found that while children and adults with SCT had some deficits in executive functions (EF) in everyday life activities, they were primarily of far less magnitude and largely centered around problems with self-organization and problem-solving. Even then, analyses showed that most of the difficulties with EF deficits were the result of overlapping ADHD symptoms that may co-exist with SCT rather than being attributable to SCT itself. More research on the link of SCT to EF deficits is clearly indicated—but, as of this time, SCT does not seem to be as strongly associated with EF deficits as is ADHD.\n\nSCT is currently not an official diagnosis in DSM-5 and no universally accepted set of symptoms exists yet. But there are rating scales that can be used to screen for SCT symptoms such as the \"Concentration Inventory\" (for children and adults) or the \"Barkley Sluggish Cognitive Tempo Scale-Children and Adolescents (BSCTS-CA)\". The \"Comprehensive Behaviour Rating Scale for Children\" (CBRSC), an older scale, can also be used for SCT as this case study shows.\n\nAlthough having no diagnosic code either, ICD-10 mentions the SCT group as a reason for why it did not replace the term \"Hyperkinetic Disorder\" with \"\"ADHD\".\"\n\nOther mental disorders may produce similar symptoms to SCT (e.g. excessive daydreaming or \"staring blankly\") and should not be confused with it. Examples might be conditions like depersonalization disorder, dysthymia, thyroid problems, absence seizures, Bipolar II disorder, Kleine–Levin syndrome, forms of autism or schizoid personality disorder. However, the prevalence of SCT in these clinical populations has yet to be empirically and systematically investigated.\n\nAdditional requirements for a proposed SCT diagnosis (such as the number and duration of symptoms or the impact on functioning) are continuing to be investigated. But there is no doubt that both ADHD and SCT are found in children and adults and are linked to significant impairment and a diminished quality of life (QoL). SCT on its own is linked to increased stress as well as lower educational attainment and socioeconomic status.\n\nThe research by Barkley suggests that ADHD and SCT compound each other if they occur together: In adults, those comorbid cases were more likely to be unmarried and to be out of work on disability compared to cases with ADHD only. But SCT alone is also present in the population and can be quite impairing in educational and occupational settings, even if it is not as pervasively impairing as ADHD.\n\nUnlike ADHD, the general causes of SCT symptoms are almost unknown, though one recent study of twins suggested that the condition appears to be nearly as heritable or genetically influenced in nature as ADHD. That is to say that the majority of differences among individuals in these traits in the population may be due mostly to variation in their genes. The heritability of SCT symptoms in that study was only slightly lower than that for ADHD symptoms with a somewhat greater share of trait variation being due to unique environmental events. For instance, in ADHD, the genetic contribution to individual differences in ADHD traits typically averages between 75 and 80% and may even be as high as 90%+ in some studies. That for SCT may be 50–60%.\n\nFar less is known about SCT yet the symptoms seem to indicate that the posterior attention networks may be more involved in the disorder than the prefrontal cortex region of the brain and difficulties with working memory so prominent in ADHD. This hypothesis gained greater support following a 2015 fMRI-study comparing Inattentive ADHD and SCT-diagnosed patients, which found that the left superior parietal lobule (SPL) showed remarkably decreased activity in SCT-cohorts.\n\nUnlike ADHD in which there exist hundreds of studies on molecular genetics identifying candidate genes that may contribute to the disorder, there are no studies of molecular genetics that specifically evaluated individuals having SCT. Although ADHD appears to be linked to problems with the availability of or sensitivity to dopamine and norepinephrine and the efficiency of the large chemical structures of the specific receptors and re-uptake receptors, the neurotransmitters that may be linked to SCT are unknown.\n\nRecently a study showed a small link between thyroid functioning and SCT symptoms suggesting that thyroid dysfunction is not the cause of SCT. High rates of SCT were observed in children who had suffered prenatal alcohol exposure and in survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, where they were associated with cognitive late effects.\n\nTreatment of SCT has not been well investigated. Initial drug studies were done only with the ADHD medication methylphenidate (e.g. Ritalin®), and even then only with children who were diagnosed as ADD without hyperactivity (using DSM-III criteria) and not specifically for SCT. The research seems to have found that most children with ADD with Hyperactivity (currently ADHD-C) responded well at medium-to-high doses. However, a sizable percentage of children with ADD without hyperactivity (currently ADHD-I, therefore the results may apply to SCT) did not gain much benefit from methylphenidate, and when they did benefit, it was at a much lower dose.\n\nHowever, one study and a retrospective analysis of medical histories found that the presence or absence of SCT symptoms made no difference in response to methylphenidate in children with ADHD-I. But these studies did not specifically and explicitly examine the effect of the drug on SCT symptoms in children. The only medication study to date who did this used atomoxetine (Strattera) and found it to have significant beneficial effects that were independent of ADHD symptoms.\n\nOnly one study has investigated the use of behavior modification methods at home and school for children with predominantly SCT symptoms and it found good success.\n\nIn April 2014, \"The New York Times\" reported that sluggish cognitive tempo is the subject of pharmaceutical company clinical drug trials, including ones by Eli Lilly that proposed that one of its biggest-selling drugs, Strattera, could be prescribed to treat proposed symptoms of sluggish cognitive tempo. Other researchers believe that there is no effective treatment for SCT.\n\nThe prognosis of SCT is unknown. In contrast, much is known about the adolescent and adult outcomes of children having ADHD. Those with SCT symptoms typically show a later onset of their symptoms than do those with ADHD, perhaps by as much as a year or two later on average. They have as much or more difficulty with academic tasks and far fewer social difficulties than do people having ADHD. They do not have the same risks for oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, or social aggression and thus may have different life course outcomes compared to children with ADHD-HI and Combined subtypes who have far higher risks for these other \"externalizing\" disorders.\n\nHowever, unlike ADHD, there are no longitudinal studies of children with SCT that can shed light on the developmental course and adolescent or adult outcomes of these individuals.\n\nRecent studies indicate that the symptoms of SCT in children form two dimensions: daydreamy-spacey and sluggish-lethargic, and that the former are more distinctive of the disorder from ADHD than the latter. This same pattern was recently found in the first study of adults with SCT by Barkley and also in more recent studies of college students. These studies indicated that SCT is probably not a subtype of ADHD but a distinct disorder from it. Yet it is one that overlaps with ADHD in 30–50% of cases of each disorder, suggesting a pattern of comorbidity between two related disorders rather than subtypes of the same disorder. Nevertheless, SCT is strongly correlated with ADHD inattentive and combined subtypes. According to a Norwegian study, \"SCT correlated significantly with inattentiveness, regardless of the subtype of ADHD.\"\n\nThere have been descriptions in literature for centuries of children who are very inattentive and prone to foggy thought.\n\nSymptoms similar to ADHD were first systematically described in 1775 by Melchior Adam Weikard and in 1798 by Alexander Crichton in their medical textbooks. Although Weikard mainly described a single disorder of attention resembling the hyperactive-impulsive subtype of ADHD, Crichton postulates an additional attention disorder, described as a \"morbid diminution of its power or energy\", and further explores possible \"corporeal\" and \"mental\" causes for the disorder (including \"irregularities in diet, excessive evacuations, and the abuse of corporeal desires\"). However, he does not further describe any symptoms of the disorder, making this an early but certainly non-specific reference to an SCT-like syndrome.\n\nOne example from fictional literature is Heinrich Hoffmann's character of \"Johnny Head-in-Air\" (\"Hanns Guck-in-die-Luft\"), in \"Struwwelpeter\" (1845). (Some researchers see several characters in this book as showing signs of child psychiatric disorders).\n\nThe Canadian pediatrician Guy Falardeau, besides working with hyperactive children, also wrote about very dreamy, quiet and well-behaved children that he encountered in his practice.\n\nIn more modern times, research surrounding attention disorders has traditionally focused on hyperactive symptoms, but began to newly address inattentive symptoms in the 1970s. Influenced by this research, the DSM-III (1980) allowed for the first time a diagnosis of an ADD subtype that presented without hyperactivity. Researchers exploring this subtype created rating scales for children which included questions regarding symptoms such as short attention span, distractibility, drowsiness, and passivity. In the mid 1980s, it was proposed that as opposed to the then accepted dichotomy of ADD with or without hyperactivity (ADD/H, ADD/noH), instead a three factor model of ADD was more appropriate, consisting of hyperactivity-impulsivity, inattention-disorganization, and slow tempo subtypes.\n\nIn the 1990s, Weinberg and Brumback proposed a new disorder: \"primary disorder of vigilance\" (PVD). Characteristic symptoms of it were difficulty sustaining alertness and arousal, daydreaming, difficulty focusing attention, losing one's place in activities and conversation, slow completion of tasks and a kind personality. The most detailed case report in their article looks like a prototypical representation of SCT. The authors acknowledged an overlap of PVD and ADHD but argued in favor of considering PVD to be distinct in its unique cognitive impairments. Problematic with the paper is that it dismissed ADHD as a nonexistent disorder (despite it having several thousand research studies by then) and preferred the term PVD for this SCT-like symptom complex. A further difficulty with the PVD diagnosis is that not only is it based merely on 6 cases instead of the far larger samples of SCT children used in other studies but the very term implies that science has established the underlying cognitive deficits giving rise to SCT symptoms, and this is hardly the case.\n\nWith the publication of DSM-IV in 1994, the disorder was labeled as ADHD, and was divided into three subtypes: predominantly inattentive, predominantly hyperactive-impulsive, and combined. Of the proposed SCT specific symptoms discussed while developing the DSM-IV, only \"forgetfulness\" was included in the symptom list for ADHD-I, and no others were mentioned. However, several of the proposed SCT symptoms were included in the diagnosis of \"ADHD, not otherwise specified\".\n\nPrior to 2001, there were a total of four scientific journal articles specifically addressing symptoms of SCT. But then a researcher suggested that sluggish tempo symptoms (such as inconsistent alertness and orientation) were, in fact, adequate for the diagnosis of ADHD-I. Thus, he argued, their exclusion from DSM-IV was inappropriate. The research article and its accompanying commentary urging the undertaking of more research on SCT spurred the publication of over 30 scientific journal articles to date which specifically address symptoms of SCT.\n\nHowever, with the publication of DSM-5 in 2013, ADHD continues to be classified as predominantly inattentive, predominantly hyperactive-impulsive, and combined type and there continues to be no mention of SCT as a diagnosis or a diagnosis subtype anywhere in the manual. The diagnosis of \"ADHD, not otherwise specified\" also no longer includes any mention of SCT symptoms. Similarly, ICD-10, the medical diagnostic manual, has no diagnosis code for SCT. Although SCT is not recognized as a disorder at this point, researchers continue to debate its usefulness as a construct and its implications for further attention disorder research.\n\nSignificant skepticism has been raised within the medical and scientific communities as to whether SCT, currently considered a \"symptom cluster,\" actually exists as a distinct disorder.\n\nDr. Allen Frances, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at Duke University, has commented \"We're seeing a fad in evolution: Just as ADHD has been the diagnosis du jour for 15 years or so, this is the beginning of another. This is a public health experiment on millions of kids...I have no doubt there are kids who meet the criteria for this thing, but nothing is more irrelevant. The enthusiasts here are thinking of missed patients. What about the mislabeled kids who are called patients when there’s nothing wrong with them? They are not considering what is happening in the real world.\"\n\nUCLA researcher and Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology editorial board member Steve S. Lee has also expressed concern based on SCT's close relationship to ADHD, cautioning that a pattern of over-diagnosis of the latter has \"already grown to encompass too many children with common youthful behavior, or whose problems are derived not from a neurological disorder but from inadequate sleep, a different learning disability or other sources.\" Lee states, \"The scientist part of me says we need to pursue knowledge, but we know that people will start saying their kids have [sluggish cognitive tempo], and doctors will start diagnosing it and prescribing for it long before we know whether it’s real...ADHD has become a public health, societal question, and it’s a fair question to ask of SCT.\"\n\nAdding to the controversy are potential conflicts of interest among the condition's proponents, including the funding of prominent SCT researchers' work by the global pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly and, in the case of Dr. Russell Barkley, a leader in the burgeoning SCT research field, direct financial ties to that company (Dr. Barkley has received $118,000 from 2009 to 2012 for consulting and speaking engagements from Eli Lilly). When referring to the \"increasing clinical referrals occurring now and more rapidly in the near future driven by increased awareness of the general public in SCT\", Dr. Barkley writes \"The fact that SCT is not recognized as yet in any official taxonomy of psychiatric disorders will not alter this circumstance given the growing presence of information on SCT at various widely visited internet sites such as YouTube and Wikipedia, among others.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "524457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524457", "title": "Technology Student Association", "text": "Technology Student Association\n\nThe Technology Student Association (TSA) is a national student organization created to develop skills in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) as well as business education. TSA aims to develop leadership, academic, and business management skills in the workplace among students and leaders within the community. The organization has 250,000 members. The 2017 national conference was held June 21–25, 2017, in Orlando, Florida. The 2018 national conference will be held June 22-26, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nCompetitive events are separated into middle school and high school levels, with students competing only with their respective age group. Competitions take place at the local, state, regional and national level. A component of leadership is often entailed in events at both levels, with some events being devoted to leadership (such as the Leadership Challenge).\n\nAll TSA competitions are correlated with national science, technology, engineering and mathematics and business standards. Expert judging by technology educators and industry representatives inspires the best from participants. Sample middle school events include Agriculture and Biotechnology Issues, Career Prep, Video Game Design, and Inventions and Innovations. High school events include Animatronics, Computer Aided Design (CAD), Dragster Design, Promotional Design, System Control Technology, Flight Endurance, Software Development, and Desktop Publishing. Scores are out of 100 points and based upon a nationally developed rubric. Winners are chosen based on these scores. In many events, semi-finalists (top 12) move onto a second round of competition which usually involves an interview with the judges about the project. First, second, and third-place winners are awarded a trophy, and finalists (top 10) are recognized at the national level.\n\nThe Technology Student Association has partnered with many groups to promote other skills. Junior Solar Sprint is a national program allows students to design solar-powered cars. Tests of Engineering Aptitude, Mathematics, and Science (TEAMS) is an annual one-day competition where students use their skills to solve issues facing our global society. TSA has partnered with the VEX Robotics Competition to allow students to design and create robots to complete specific tasks. UNITE is a summer program funded by the U.S. Army Research Office that encourages high school students to pursue engineering careers. Every TSA middle school and high school member is required to submit LEAP (Leadership. Education. Achievement. Personal Growth.) documentation as part of every competition in which they compete. LEAP documentation tracks the leadership activities and experiences a TSA member has completed as part of each competition.\n\nTSA became an independent organization in 1978, when AIASA Inc. was formed to oversee the activities of the American Industrial Arts Student Association. Between the foundation of AIASA as an independent organization (it had formerly been a part of the American Industrial Arts Association) and 1988, the association grew and began to take shape.\n\nIn 1988, the AIASA changed its name to the Technology Student Association as part of a shift in focus from industrial arts to mainstream technology. This action followed a similar name change by the Texas state delegation the previous year. In 1989, the official logo, submitted by a chapter advisor, was adopted. In 1990, the logo received a trademark from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.\n\nToday, the association has grown to include over 250,000 members in 2,000 secondary schools across 49 states. It has established an Honor Society, manages numerous competitive events and has partnerships with several organizations.\n\nAdditionally, TSA has a service partnership with the American Cancer Society (ACS), which are parts of their National Service Project. TSA members raise money to promote advocacy and research in the ACS, and the ACS issues Spirit of Service awards at each national conference. In the past, conferences have hosted Relay for Life events on site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9780169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9780169", "title": "The Race Question", "text": "The Race Question\n\nThe Race Question is the first of four UNESCO statements about issues of race. It was issued on 18 July 1950 following World War II and Nazi racism to clarify what was scientifically known about race, and as a moral condemnation of racism. It was criticized on several grounds and revised versions were publicized in 1951, 1967, and 1978.\n\nThe statements were signed by some of the leading researchers of the time, in the field of sociology, psychology, biology, cultural anthropology and ethnology.\n\nThe original statement was drafted by Ernest Beaglehole; Juan Comas; Luiz de Aguiar Costa Pinto; Franklin Frazier, sociologist specialised in race relations studies; Morris Ginsberg, founding chairperson of the British Sociological Association; Humayun Kabir, writer, philosopher, and twice Education Minister of India; Claude Lévi-Strauss, one of the founders of ethnology and leading theorist of structural anthropology; and Ashley Montagu, anthropologist and author of \"The Elephant Man: A Study in Human Dignity\", who was the rapporteur.\n\nThe text was then revised by Ashley Montagu following criticisms submitted by Hadley Cantril; E. G. Conklin; Gunnar Dahlberg; Theodosius Dobzhansky, author of \"Genetics and the Origin of Species\" (1937); L. C. Dunn; Donald Hager; Julian Huxley, first director of UNESCO and one of the many key contributors to modern evolutionary synthesis; Otto Klineberg; Wilbert Moore; H. J. Muller; Gunnar Myrdal, author of \"\" (1944); Joseph Needham, a biochemist specialist of Chinese science; and geneticist Curt Stern.\n\nThe introduction states that it was inevitable that UNESCO should take a position in the controversy. The preamble to the UNESCO constitution states that it should combat racism. The constitution itself stated that \"The great and terrible war that has now ended was a war made possible by the denial of the democratic principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men, and by the propagation, in their place, through ignorance and prejudice, of the doctrine of the \"inequality\" of men and races.\"\n\nA 1948 UN Social and Economic Council resolution called upon UNESCO to consider the timeliness \"of proposing and recommending the general adoption of a programme of dissemination of scientific facts designed to bring about the disappearance of that which is commonly called race prejudice.\" In 1949, the UNESCO adopted three resolutions which committed it to \"study and collect scientific materials concerning questions of race\", \"to give wide diffusion to the scientific material collected\", and \"to prepare an education campaign based on this information.\" Before undertaking this campaign, the scientific position had to be clarified.\n\nFurthermore, in doing this\nThe introduction stated \"Knowledge of the truth does not always help change emotional attitudes that draw their real strength from the subconscious or from factors beside the real issue.\" But it could \"however, prevent rationalizations of reprehensive acts or behaviour prompted by feelings that men will not easily avow openly.\"\n\nUNESCO made a moral statement:\nUNESCO would start a campaign to spread the results of the report to a \"vast public\" such as by publishing pamphlets. It described Brazil as having an \"exemplary situation\" regarding race relations and that research should be undertaken in order to understand the causes of this \"harmony\".\n\nDespite the introduction stating that \"The competence and objectivity of the scientists who signed the document in its final form cannot be questioned\", the first version of the statement was heavily criticized. A revised edition in 1951 explained the controversy as \"At the first discussion on the problem of race, it was chiefly sociologists who gave their opinions and framed the ‘Statement on Race’. That statement had a good effect, but it did not carry the authority of just those groups within whose special province fall the biological problems of race, namely the physical anthropologists and geneticists. Secondly, the first statement did not, in all its details, carry conviction of these groups and, because of this, it was not supported by many authorities in these two fields. In general, the chief conclusions of the first statement were sustained, but with differences in emphasis and with some important omissions.\"\n\nSome examples of differences include that the first version argued that there was no evidence for intellectual or personality differences. The revised version stated that \"When intelligence tests, even non-verbal, are made on a group of non-literate people, their scores are usually lower than those of more civilised people\" but concluded that \"Available scientific knowledge provides no basis for believing that the groups of mankind differ in their innate capacity for intellectual and emotional development.\"\n\nThe first version did not reject the idea of race biology, a biological basis to racial categories. It defined the concept of race in terms of a population defined by certain anatomical and physiological characteristics diverging from other populations; it gives as examples the Caucasian race, Mongoloid and Negroid races.\n\nThe first version stated that \"National, religious, geographic, linguistic and cultural groups do not necessarily coincide with racial groups: and the cultural traits of such groups have no demonstrated genetic connection with racial traits. Because serious errors of this kind are habitually committed when the term ‘race’ is used in popular parlance, it would be better when speaking of human races to drop the term ‘race’ altogether and speak of ethnic groups.\" The revised version instead stated that the experts \"agreed to reserve race as the word to be used for anthropological classification of groups showing definite combinations of physical (including physiological) traits in characteristic proportions.\"\n\nThe well known English statistician and biologist Ronald Fisher opposed the statement, believing that evidence and everyday experience showed that human groups differ profoundly \"in their innate capacity for intellectual and emotional development\" and concluded that the \"practical international problem is that of learning to share the resources of this planet amicably with persons of materially different nature\", and that \"this problem is being obscured by entirely well-intentioned efforts to minimize the real differences that exist\". The revised statement titled \"The Race Concept: Results of an Inquiry\" (1951) was accompanied by Fisher's dissenting commentary.\n\nThe 1951 revised statement stated that \"Homo sapiens\" is one species. \"The concept of race is unanimously regarded by anthropologists as a classificatory device providing a zoological frame within which the various groups of mankind may be arranged and by means of which studies of evolutionary processes can be facilitated. In its anthropological sense, the word ‘race’ should be reserved for groups of mankind possessing well-developed and primarily heritable physical differences from other groups.\" These differences have been caused in part by partial isolation preventing intermingling, geography an important explanation for the major races, often cultural for the minor races. National, religious, geographical, linguistic and cultural groups do not necessarily coincide with racial groups.\n\nThere is no evidence for the existence of so-called \"pure races\" and no scientific justification exists for discouraging reproduction between persons of different races.\n\nThe UNESCO later published other similar statements on racism. In 1978, the \"UNESCO Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice\" stated that \"All peoples of the world possess equal faculties for attaining the highest level in intellectual, technical, social, economic, cultural and political development\" and \"The differences between the achievements of the different peoples are entirely attributable to geographical, historical, political, economic, social and cultural factors.\" It also argued for implementing a number of policies in order to combat racism and inequalities, and stated that \"Population groups of foreign origin, particularly migrant workers and their families who contribute to the development of the host country, should benefit from appropriate measures designed to afford them security and respect for their dignity and cultural values and to facilitate their adaptation to the host environment and their professional advancement with a view to their subsequent reintegration in their country of origin and their contribution to its development; steps should be taken to make it possible for their children to be taught their mother tongue.\"\n\nA draft of the statement was prepared by the Director-General and \"eminent specialists in human rights\". It was discussed at a meeting by government representatives from over 100 member states. It was recommended that the representatives should include among them \"social scientists and other persons particularly qualified to in the social, political, economic, cultural, and scientific aspects of the problem\". A number of non-governmental and inter-governmental organizations sent observers. A final text of was adopted by the meeting of government representatives \"by consensus, without opposition or vote\" and later by the UNESCO General Conference, Twentieth Session.\n\nIn 1995, UNESCO published a \"Declaration of Principles on Tolerance\" to add to its dialogue about racial equality with recommendations for tolerant treatment of persons with varied racial and cultural backgrounds. It stated \"Tolerance is respect, acceptance and appreciation of the rich diversity of our world's cultures, our forms of expression and ways of being human. It is fostered by knowledge, openness, communication, and freedom of thought, conscience and belief. Tolerance is harmony in difference. It is not only a moral duty, it is also a political and legal requirement. Tolerance, the virtue that makes peace possible, contributes to the replacement of the culture of war by a culture of peace.\"\n\nThe 1950 UNESCO statement contributed to the 1954 U.S. Supreme Court desegregation decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5023749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5023749", "title": "Training camp (National Football League)", "text": "Training camp (National Football League)\n\nIn the National Football League, training camp refers to the time before the season commences. During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside location, usually a university, to conduct training camp for at least the first few weeks. This is similar to baseball's spring training.\n\nTraining camp is used in several different ways. New players and coaches use it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems. For younger players, it serves as a period of evaluation; for veterans, it is time to round back into form.\n\nTraining camp is divided into several different components. The first is scrimmages. These are pseudo-games where teams run nearly full games' worth of plays. Sometimes, two practice sessions are held on the same day. This concept is referred to as \"two-a-days\". Other parts of training camp include drills, meetings with coaches and other players at one's position, weight training, and pre-season games.\n\nThe latter half of training camp leads directly into the exhibition season.\n\nWith NFL training camps starting in late-July, the biggest concern has been dehydration. In 2001, Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a medical condition based from dehydration and heatstroke. The death of Stringer prompted the NFL to change their training policies. At each practice, every team must have the team doctor and trainers on the field; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.\n\nWith NFL training camps beginning in late July, severe weather can affect practice and exhibition games. In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning near Cleveland Browns Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.\n\nFans are often able to visit their favorite team's training camp to catch an early look at the players; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket, making training camp trips a popular option for fans who cannot attend many games due to financial or other reasons. NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience.\n\nOfficial NFL training camps should be distinguished from private training camps, often for certain tactics or positions.\n\nRecently the NFL has let teams have off-season training sessions, officially called \"organized team activities\" (OTAs). Many teams use the OTAs to help develop players and make them better. These training sessions are in late May and early June. The OTAs are the only practices between the end of the previous season and the start of training camp. Players new to the NFL attend seminars and lectures organized by the NFL from mid-June to mid-July. For veteran players, they use the off-time to sponsor football camps for children, golf outings for charity, or even some family time.\n\nUnlike Major League Baseball spring training, where teams congregate at locations in two states (Arizona and Florida), NFL teams train all over the United States. However, an increasing number of teams do so in the same facilities at which they practice all year long - 19 teams in 2014, and 20 in 2015, up from five in 2000. Most teams have abandoned remote locations to \"come home\" for training camp, largely for practicality reasons. Many clubs have recently constructed state-of-the-art practice facilities, replete with amenities (multiple practice fields, indoor practice fields, weightlifting rooms, meeting rooms, lecture halls, film study rooms, cafeteria, medical facilities, IT infrastructure, etc.) that can not be provided or matched at other distant locations (colleges, parks, etc.) Most if not all of these new team practice facilities were in fact designed with hosting training camp in mind, and they are able to accommodate the expanded training camp roster sizes. In addition, the cost of temporarily relocating and accommodating the entire team organization to another location is substantial.\n\nThe attitudes about how to run training camp have also evolved - leading more teams to stay home. With \"Organized Team Activities\" (\"OTAs\"), mini-camps, and conditioning during the off-season, players remain in top physical shape year-round. The focus of training camp is no longer getting players back in shape, but more of fostering camaraderie.\n\nFor example, the Lions' camp was long held at Saginaw Valley State College, the Broncos trained at the University of Northern Colorado, the Patriots at Bryant University in Smithfield, Rhode Island, and the Redskins moved in from Dickinson College, the former site of Carlisle Indian School. Tampa Bay used to train at the University of Tampa, then at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex before moving permanently back to their headquarters. Similarly, after many years on the road, the Jets (SUNY Cortland) and the Giants (Albany) both recently moved back to team headquarters.\n\nThere are still a handful of teams that use somewhat distant locations at the fringes of their markets to promote their team. For instance, the Buffalo Bills moved their training camp from SUNY Fredonia to Saint John Fisher College in suburban Rochester; as a team representing one of the smallest cities in the NFL, the holding of training camp in the nearby city of Rochester allows the Bills to lay claim to a larger portion of upstate New York and thus take advantage of a market closer in size to other teams in the NFL (similar rationale was used for the Bills' games in Toronto, Ontario, Canada prior to 2014). The Dallas Cowboys have historically hosted their training camp in locales very distant from their home market, even before they were given the moniker \"America's Team\" in the late 1970s; from 2001 to 2015, the Cowboys held their training camp at the River Ridge Playing Fields in Oxnard, California, a suburb of Los Angeles. The Cowboys' arrangement with Oxnard ended when the Los Angeles Rams returned to southern California and the Cowboys constructed a considerable multi-purpose facility in Frisco, Texas whose main lure is being the team's practice facility.\n\nAnother difference between spring training and training camp is that true intra-squad games do not take place (anymore), though informal scrimmages are very common. Split-squad games never happen in the NFL. It is also fairly common to see two teams hold a short joint camp and scrimmage at a neutral site in addition to their main camp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "378959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378959", "title": "Varsity letter", "text": "Varsity letter\n\nA varsity letter (or monogram) is an award earned in the United States for excellence in school activities. A varsity letter signifies that its winner was a qualified varsity team member, awarded after a certain standard was met.\n\nThe award letter is usually made in the colors and initials representing the school that the recipient attends. The letter patch is primarily constructed of chenille and felt materials. Standard sizes range from to . While and usually denote Junior Varsity achievements, to would denote full (Senior) Varsity. The stitching style used for creating the chenille look is called a moss stitch, while the outlining sew down is called a chain stitch.\n\nWith the advent of organized sports, there was a need for uniforms. There was an additional need for identifications which was satisfied by the use of emblems or letters.\n\nIn 1865, the Harvard baseball team added an Old English 'H'. The 'H' was embroidered on the gray flannel shirt. The football team started to use the 'H' in 1875. For 25 years following the introduction in 1865 of the letter, it was the practice for the team captain to allow certain players who played in the most important games (Yale or Princeton) to keep the 'H' jerseys as an award. If a player did not play in an important game, the player had to return the jersey at the end of the season. Awarding the 'H' jersey may have been the birth of the varsity letter as an award. The letterman sweater was first regularly used by the 1891 \"Nine\" (baseball) and was black with a small Crimson 'H' on the left breast.\n\nIt is not known when the letter sweater came to high schools. The earliest known example of a letter sweater in a high school is found in the 1911 yearbook of Phoenix Union High School, Arizona Territory. A student in a group photo is pictured, not in football uniform, wearing a V-neck sweater with the letter 'P' on the left side.\n\nThe sweater seems to be the home of the award letter from the 1890s until the 1930s. Another award during the 1920s and 1930s was a stadium style blanket given as an award. In the 1930s, the letter award started to appear on leather sleeved, wool-bodied jackets. The jackets from the 1930s were different in design than today's modern jacket.\n\nAs a decorative clothing item, the varsity letter has a huge number of variations and no set standard is made to any school on how it should look.\n\nChenille letters come in many different forms and shapes. Some institutions use Old English or script style, two or three letter monogram, 3D shading, chenille bordered or the traditional straight block style. Students generally receive only one actual letter, but can win the distinction multiple times. These additional designations are shown by adding embroidered sport insignias, modeled metal insert pins, or bars that are attached to the letter. Some schools may embroider non-athletic letters with their award title, such as \"Academics\" or \"Arts\".\n\nThe chenille letter is traditionally placed on the left chest of the varsity jacket, which is also at times adorned with championship chenille patches showcasing the team or individual accomplishments. School mascot patches are also commonly used.\n\nDuring the 1980s, and again in the 2010s, varsity jackets have been adopted into hip-hop fashion, with companies such as Avirex, Phat Farm and Rocawear making their own variations.\n\n"}
{"id": "35610473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35610473", "title": "Video-based reflection", "text": "Video-based reflection\n\nVideo-based reflection is a reflective practice technique in which video recordings, rather than one's own memory, is used as a basis for reflection and professional growth. Video-based reflection is used with moderations in various professional fields, e.g. in the field of education and pedagogy. Several workshop formats can be described as based on video-based reflection, e.g. \"Videobased Reflection on Team Interaction\" (The ViRTI Method; Due & Lange 2015) within the conversation analytic school of research, or the concept of Marte Meo, a method of educational counseling.\n\nIndividual teachers can practice video-based reflection, but it is more commonly done when teachers are a part of video clubs. Research about the effect that video club participation can have on teacher practice has been done by Katherine A. Linsenmeier, Miriam Gamoran Sherin, and Elizabeth van Es.\n\nResearch indicates that teachers can benefit from video-based reflection, even when done apart from a group. Individuals using this mode of reflection tend to write longer and have more specific reflections than when writing a reflection using memory alone. This practice has also been shown to help pre-service and novice teachers focus their attention on their students' learning rather than on their own experiences.\n\nVideo clubs are formed by groups of teachers who want to investigate a specific aspect of their teaching practice. These clubs often meet on a monthly basis to view and discuss a video clip of a member's teaching. Teachers participating in video clubs focused on student learning report feeling better able to notice and respond to student learning during instruction.\n"}
{"id": "28103848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28103848", "title": "WISHES", "text": "WISHES\n\nWISHES stands for Web-based Information Service for Higher Education Students (WISHES). As a European Project run by nine European institutions WISHES centrally promotes European work and study offers for students worldwide by means of a user-driven web-based information portal.\nBased on the expressed needs of over 4.000 students, this WISHES web-portal centralizes information and creates profiles of European higher education institutions (HEIs) and employment bodies, tailored to Bologna and Lisbon parameters.\n\nBacked up with a powerful and diverse supporting network consisting of more than 100 HEIs, European associations and networks, as well as with the support of various national agencies, Rector's Conferences and the European Commission, WISHES offers its services to three main target groups: Students worldwide, higher education institutions and enterprises.\n\nWISHES offers its benefits to three main target groups:\n\nStudents – students of universities and colleges worldwide interested in studying or working abroad. Additionally, WISHES also targets pupils searching for higher abroad. Close cooperation with student associations are currently set up (such as with the Erasmus Student Network or the European Medical Students Association).\n\nHigher education institutions – Universities, Colleges, Academic Associations, Educational Networks, European Network, and other higher education institutions based in the Bologna signatory countries are eligible to present themselves and their offers in WISHES. Concretely WISHES targets persons responsible for international affairs such as vice rectors for international relations and international officers.\n\nEnterprisers – employment bodies, members of professional associations, and companies based in the Bologna signatory states looking for ways to reach international students and recent graduates worldwide.\n\nMeeting the needs of today's international students, the WISHES Mobility Portal consists of three components:\n\n\nThe WISHES consortium consists of 9 institutions:\n\nIn December 2006 during their Erasmus Semester at Tomas Bata University in Zlín, Czech Republic Michael Steinmann and Ricardo Dores came up with the idea of creating one web portal centrally presenting all relevant information about living and learning in the Erasmus Universities throughout Europe.\n\nDue to their huge commitment and achieved early support by various universities, their idea grew rapidly : Presentations on diverse international conferences were followed by an invitation from Alan Smith to present the idea behind WISHES in the Directorate General of Education and Culture (DG EAC) of the European Commission in Brussels in April 2007.\n\nSupported by the University of Paderborn, Michael Steinmann and Prof. Dr. Leena Suhl submitted in 2008 a project proposal within the Action 4 of the Erasmus Mundus Programme to enhance the attractiveness of higher in Europe. Subsequently, in October 2008, WISHES has been approved by the European Commission (Agreement No. 2008-2457 / 001 – 001 MUN MUNATT), and was kicked of in December 2008.\n\nIn 2009 three major WISHES surveys have been carried out to lay solid grounds for the future WISHES mobility portal: Within these surveys 600 higher education institutions, 100 enterprises and 4 000 students stated their wishes concerning a central source of information concerning European study and work options. Additionally, to further promote the project's idea, WISHES has in 2009 been presented within various major European conferences on higher education mobility: The ERACON Conference 2009 (29 April – 3 May 2009, Nicosia, Cyprus) and the EAIE Conference 2009 (16th – 19 September, Madrid, Spain).\n\nIn May 2010 the WISHES mobility portal was launched for higher education institutions during the WISHES Networking days (NWD 2010) in Essen, Germany. Since June 2010 European higher education institutions have been enabled to prepare their presentations in WISHES for the launch of WISHES for students worldwide in September 2010.\n\nIn September 2010 WISHES will be launched for students worldwide. Starting from February 2011 employment bodies will be able to promote their offers by means of WISHES.\n\nFurthermore, Erasmus Mundus WISHES Project will be presented on the following conferences:\n\n2010\n\n\n2011\n\nWISHES is still offering further institutions to join its network. Until today the following higher education institutions have joined in on the WISHES idea:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3125604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3125604", "title": "Školska knjiga", "text": "Školska knjiga\n\nŠkolska knjiga (lit. \"Schoolbook\", ) is one of the largest publishing companies in Croatia. It was established in 1950. Until the mid-1990s it had a virtual monopoly on publishing schoolbooks and this remains its core business.\n"}
