{"id": "140444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140444", "title": "A. J. P. Taylor", "text": "A. J. P. Taylor\n\nAlan John Percivale Taylor (25 March 1906 – 7 September 1990) was an English historian who specialised in 19th- and 20th-century European diplomacy. Both a journalist and a broadcaster, he became well known to millions through his television lectures. His combination of academic rigour and popular appeal led the historian Richard Overy to describe him as \"the Macaulay of our age\".\n\nTaylor was born in 1906 in Birkdale, Southport, which was then part of Lancashire. His wealthy parents held left-wing views, which he inherited. Both his parents, Percy Lees and Constance Sumner (Thompson) Taylor, were pacifists who vocally opposed the First World War, and sent their son to Quaker schools as a way of protesting against the war. These schools included The Downs School at Colwall and Bootham School in York. \nGeoffrey Barraclough, a contemporary at Bootham School, remembered Taylor as \"a most arresting, stimulating, vital personality, violently anti-bourgeois and anti-Christian\". In 1924, he went to Oriel College, Oxford, to study modern history.\n\nIn the 1920s, Taylor's mother, Constance, was a member of the Comintern while one of his uncles was a founder member of the Communist Party of Great Britain. Constance was a suffragette, feminist, and advocate of free love who practised her teachings via a string of extramarital affairs, most notably with Henry Sara, a communist who in many ways became Taylor's surrogate father. Taylor has mentioned in his reminiscences that his mother was domineering, but his father enjoyed exasperating her by following his own ways. Taylor had a close relationship with his father, and enjoyed his father's quirkiness. Taylor himself was recruited into the Communist Party of Great Britain by a friend of the family, the military historian Tom Wintringham, while at Oriel; a member from 1924 to 1926, he broke with the Party over what he considered to be its ineffective stand during the 1926 General Strike. After leaving, he was an ardent supporter of the Labour Party for the rest of his life, remaining a member for over sixty years. Despite his break with the Communist Party, he visited the Soviet Union in 1925, and again in 1934.\n\nTaylor graduated from Oxford in 1927. After working briefly as a legal clerk, he began his post-graduate work, going to Vienna to study the impact of the Chartist movement on the Revolution of 1848. When this topic turned out not to be feasible, he switched to studying the question of Italian unification over a two-year period. This resulted in his first book, \"The Italian Problem in European Diplomacy, 1847–49\" published in 1934.\n\nTaylor lectured in history at the University of Manchester from 1930 to 1938. He came with his wife to live firstly in an unfurnished flat (before they could get a furnished one) at the top floor of an eighteenth-century house opposite the entrance to Didsbury Park called The Limes at 148 Wilmslow Road at the southern end of Didsbury village and set back from the street (still there in 2013).\nHe became a Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford, in 1938, a post he held until 1976. He also lectured in modern history at Oxford from 1938 to 1963. At Oxford he was such an extraordinarily popular speaker he had to give his lectures at 8:30 a.m. to avoid the room becoming over-crowded. \n\nIn 1962, Taylor wrote in a review of \"The Great Hunger: Ireland 1845-1849\" by Cecil Woodham-Smith that: \"All Ireland was a Belsen...The English governing class ran true to form. They had killed two million Irish people.\" Taylor added that if the death rate from the Irish Potato Famine was not higher it \"was not for want of trying\" on the part of the British government, writing: \"I have always felt a certain horror of political economists since I heard one of them say that the Famine in Ireland would not kill more than a million people, and that would scarcely be enough to do much good.\" Taylor later reprinted his book review under the stark title \"Genocide\" in his 1976 book \"Essays in English History\".\"\n\nIn 1964, when Oxford refused to renew his term as lecturer in the aftermath of the controversy occasioned by \"The Origins of the Second World War\", he became a lecturer at the Institute of Historical Research in London, University College London, and the Polytechnic of North London.\n\nAn important step in Taylor's \"rehabilitation\" was a \"festschrift\" organised in his honour by Martin Gilbert in 1965. He was honoured with two more \"festschriften\", in 1976 and 1986. The \"festschriften\" were testaments to his popularity with his former students as receiving even a single \"festschrift\" is considered to be an extraordinary and rare honour.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Taylor served in the Home Guard and befriended émigré statesmen from Eastern Europe, such as the former Hungarian President Count Mihály Károlyi and Czechoslovak President Edvard Beneš. These friendships helped to enhance his understanding of the region. His friendship with Beneš and Károlyi may help explain his friendly portrayal of them, in particular Károlyi, whom Taylor portrayed as a saintly figure. Taylor became friends with Hubert Ripka, the press attache for Beneš, who lived in Oxford, and through him, got to know President Beneš who lived in London. Taylor wrote that because Beneš was a President, \"he was not allowed to brave the front line in London and had to live in a sovereign state at Aston Abbots-a Rothschild house of, for them, a modest standard. Bored and isolated, Beneš summoned an audience whatever he could and I was often swept over to Aston Abbots in the presidential car\". In 1943, Taylor wrote his first pamphlet, \"Czechoslovakia's Place in a Free Europe\", explaining his view that Czechoslovakia would after the war serve as a \"bridge\" between the Western world and the Soviet Union. \"Czechoslovakia's Place in a Free Europe\" began as a lecture Taylor had given at the Czechoslovak Institute in London on 29 April 1943 and at the suggestion of Jan Masaryk was turned into a pamphlet to explain Czechoslovakia's situation to the British people. Taylor argued that the Czechoslovaks would have to \"explain\" to the Soviets and \"explain\" socialism to the British, saying: \"You must appear to the English people as communists and to the Russians as democrats and therefore receive nothing, but abuse from both sides\". \"Czechoslovakia's Place in a Free Europe\" reflected Beneš's theory of \"convergence\" as he felt based on what he was seeing in wartime Britain that the western nations would become socialist after the war while the Soviet Union would become more democratic. In 1945, Taylor wrote: \"Beck, Stojadinović, Antonescu, and Bonnet despised Beneš's integrity and prided themselves on their cunning; but their countries, too, fell before the German aggressor, and every step they took has made the resurrection of their countries more difficult. In contrast, the foreign policy of Dr. Beneš during the present war has won Czechoslovakia a secure future\". During the same period, Taylor was employed by the Political Warfare Executive as an expert on Central Europe and frequently spoke on the radio and at various public meetings. During the war, he lobbied for British recognition of Josip Broz Tito's Partisans as the legitimate government of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn 1964, while he retained his college fellowship, the University of Oxford declined to renew Taylor's appointment as a university lecturer in modern history. This apparently sudden decision came in the aftermath of the controversy around his book \"The Origins of the Second World War\". Moving to London, he became a lecturer at the Institute of Historical Research at University College London and also at the Polytechnic of North London.\n\nIn 1979, Taylor resigned in protest from the British Academy over its dismissal of Anthony Blunt, who had been exposed as a Soviet spy. Taylor took the position that:\n\nTaylor married three times. He married his first wife, Margaret Adams, in 1931 (divorced in 1951) and with her he had four children. For a time in the 1930s, he and his wife shared a house with the writer Malcolm Muggeridge and his wife Kitty. It was suggested that he had had an affair with Kitty Muggeridge.\n\nTaylor lived for a while in Disley, Cheshire, where Dylan Thomas (who was his first wife's lover) was his guest; he later provided Thomas with a cottage in Oxford so that he could recover from a breakdown. His second wife was Eve Crosland, whom Taylor married in 1951 and divorced in 1974; he had two children by her. Even after divorcing Margaret Adams, Taylor continued to live with her, while maintaining a household with Eve. His third wife was the Hungarian historian Éva Haraszti, whom he married in 1976.\n\nTaylor's first book, published in 1934, addressed the question of Italian unification \"The Italian Problem in European Diplomacy, 1847–49\" . However, Taylor's speciality was in Central European, British and diplomatic history. He was especially interested in the Habsburg dynasty and Bismarck. His main mentors in this period were the Austrian-born historian Alfred Francis Pribram and the Polish-born historian Sir Lewis Bernstein Namier. Taylor's earlier writings reflected Pribram's favourable opinion of the Habsburgs; however, his 1941 book \"The Habsburg Monarchy 1809–1918\" (published in a revised edition in 1948) showed the influence of Namier's unfavourable views. In \"The Habsburg Monarchy\", Taylor stated that the Habsburgs saw their realms entirely as a tool for foreign policy and thus could never build a genuine nation-state. To hold their realm together, they resorted to playing one ethnic group off against another and promoted German and Magyar hegemony over the other ethnic groups in Austria-Hungary.\n\nIn 1954 he published his masterpiece, \"The Struggle for Mastery in Europe 1848–1918\" and followed it up with \"The Trouble Makers\" in 1957, a critical study of British foreign policy. \"The Trouble Makers\" was a celebration of those who had criticised the government over foreign policy, a subject dear to his heart. \"The Trouble Makers\" had originally been the Ford Lectures in 1955 and was his favourite book by far. When invited to deliver the Ford Lectures, he was initially at a loss for a topic, and it was his friend Alan Bullock who suggested the topic of foreign policy dissent.\n\nThe recurring theme of accidents deciding history appeared in Taylor's best-selling 1955 biography of Bismarck. Taylor controversially argued that the Iron Chancellor had unified Germany more by accident than by design; a theory that contradicted those put forward by the historians Heinrich von Sybel, Leopold von Ranke, and Heinrich von Treitschke in the latter years of the 19th century, and by other historians more recently.\n\nIn 1961, he published his most controversial book, \"The Origins of the Second World War\", which earned him a reputation as a revisionist. Gordon Martel notes that \"it made a profound impact. The book became a classic and a central point of reference in all discussion on the Second World War.\"\n\nIn the book Taylor argued against the widespread belief that the outbreak of the Second World War (specifically between Germany, Poland, the United Kingdom and France, September 1939) was the result of an intentional plan on the part of Adolf Hitler. He began his book with the statement that too many people have accepted uncritically what he called the \"Nuremberg Thesis\", that the Second World War was the result of criminal conspiracy by a small gang comprising Hitler and his associates. He regarded the \"Nuremberg Thesis\" as too convenient for too many people and held that it shielded the blame for the war from the leaders of other states, let the German people avoid any responsibility for the war and created a situation where West Germany was a respectable Cold War ally against the Soviets.\n\nTaylor's thesis was that Hitler was not the demoniacal figure of popular imagination but in foreign affairs a normal German leader. Citing Fritz Fischer, he argued that the foreign policy of the Third Reich was the same as those of the Weimar Republic and the Second Reich. Moreover, in a partial break with his view of German history advocated in \"The Course of German History\", he argued that Hitler was not just a normal German leader but also a normal Western leader. As a normal Western leader, Hitler was no better or worse than Gustav Stresemann, Neville Chamberlain or Édouard Daladier. His argument was that Hitler wished to make Germany the strongest power in Europe but he did not want or plan war. The outbreak of war in 1939 was an unfortunate accident caused by mistakes on everyone's part and was not a part of Hitler's plan.\n\nNotably, Taylor portrayed Hitler as a grasping opportunist with no beliefs other than the pursuit of power and anti-Semitism. He argued that Hitler did not possess any sort of programme and his foreign policy was one of drift and seizing chances as they offered themselves. He did not even consider Hitler's anti-Semitism unique: he argued that millions of Germans were just as ferociously anti-Semitic as Hitler and there was no reason to single out Hitler for sharing the beliefs of millions of others.\n\nTaylor argued that the basic problem with an interwar Europe was a flawed Treaty of Versailles that was sufficiently onerous to ensure that the overwhelming majority of Germans would always hate it, but insufficiently onerous in that it failed to destroy Germany's potential to be a Great Power once more. In this way, Taylor argued that the Versailles Treaty was destabilising, for sooner or later the innate power of Germany that the Allies had declined to destroy in 1918–1919 would inevitably reassert itself against the Versailles Treaty and the international system established by Versailles that the Germans regarded as unjust and thus had no interest in preserving. Though Taylor argued that the Second World War was not inevitable and that the Versailles Treaty was nowhere near as harsh as contemporaries like John Maynard Keynes believed, what he regarded as a flawed peace settlement made the war more likely than not.\n\nIn 1965 he rebounded from the controversy surrounding \"The Origins of the Second World War\" with the spectacular success of his book \"English History 1914–1945\", his only venture into social and cultural history, where he offered a loving, affectionate portrayal of the years between 1914 and 1945. \"English History 1914–1945\" was an enormous best-seller and in its first year in print sold more than all of the previous volumes of the \"Oxford History of England\" combined. Though he felt there was much to be ashamed of in British history, especially in regard to Ireland, he was very proud to be British and more specifically English. He was fond of stressing his nonconformist Northern English background and saw himself as part of a grand tradition of radical dissent that he regarded as the real glorious history of England.\n\nIn 1964 Taylor wrote the introduction for \"The Reichstag Fire\" by the journalist Fritz Tobias. He thus became the first English-language historian and the first historian after Hans Mommsen to accept the conclusions of the book, that the Nazis had not set the \"Reichstag\" on fire in 1933 and that Marinus van der Lubbe had acted alone. Tobias and Taylor argued that the new Nazi government had been looking for something to increase its share of the vote in the elections of 5 March 1933, so as to activate the Enabling Act and that van der Lubbe had serendipitously (for the Nazis) provided it by burning down the Reichstag. Even without the Reichstag fire, the Nazis were quite determined to destroy German democracy. In Taylor's opinion, van der Lubbe had made their task easier by providing a pretext. Moreover, the German Communist propaganda chief Willi Münzenberg and his OGPU handlers had manufactured all of the evidence implicating the Nazis in the arson. In particular, Tobias and Taylor pointed out that the so-called \"secret tunnels\" that supposedly gave the Nazis access to the \"Reichstag\" were in fact tunnels for water piping. At the time Taylor was widely attacked by many other historians for endorsing what was considered to be a self-evident perversion of established historical facts.\n\nIn his 1969 book \"War by Timetable\", Taylor examined the origins of the First World War, concluding that though all of the great powers wished to increase their own power relative to the others, none consciously sought war before 1914. Instead, he argued that all of the great powers believed that if they possessed the ability to mobilise their armed forces faster than any of the others, this would serve as a sufficient deterrent to avoid war and allow them to achieve their foreign policy. Thus, the general staffs of the great powers developed elaborate timetables to mobilise faster than any of their rivals. When the crisis broke in 1914, though none of the statesmen of Europe wanted a world war, the need to mobilise faster than potential rivals created an inexorable movement towards war. Thus Taylor claimed that the leaders of 1914 became prisoners of the logic of the mobilisation timetables and the timetables that were meant to serve as deterrent to war instead relentlessly brought war.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, Taylor befriended Lord Beaverbrook and later wrote his biography in 1972. Beaverbrook, Canadian in origin, was a Conservative who believed strongly in the British Empire and whose entry into politics was in support of Bonar Law, a Conservative leader strongly connected with the establishment of Northern Ireland. Despite the disdain for most politicians expressed in his writings, Taylor was fascinated by politics and politicians and often cultivated relations with those who possessed power. Beside Lord Beaverbrook, whose company Taylor very much enjoyed, his favourite politician was the Labour Party leader Michael Foot, whom he often described as the greatest Prime Minister Britain never had.\n\nTaylor also wrote significant introductions to British editions of Marx's \"The Communist Manifesto\" and of \"Ten Days that Shook the World\", by John Reed. He had long been an advocate of a treaty with the Soviet Union so British Communists expected him to be friendly. In 1963, the British Communist Party, which held the copyright to \"Ten Days that Shook the World\" in the United Kingdom, offered Taylor the opportunity to write the introduction to a new edition. The introduction Taylor wrote was fairly sympathetic towards the Bolsheviks. However, it also pointed out certain contradictions between Reed's book and the official historiography in the Soviet Union—for instance, that Leon Trotsky played a very prominent, heroic role in \"Ten Days That Shook The World\" while in 1963 Trotsky was almost a non-person in Soviet historiography, mentioned only in terms of abuse. The British Communist Party rejected Taylor's introduction as anti-Soviet. The rejection annoyed Taylor. When the copyright expired in 1977 and a non-Communist publisher reissued the book, asking Taylor to write the introduction, he strengthened some of his criticisms. Taylor also wrote the introduction for \"\" by Len Deighton.\n\nStarting in 1931, Taylor worked as book reviewer for the \"Manchester Guardian\", and from 1957 he was a columnist with the \"Observer\". In 1951 Taylor made his first move into mass-market journalism, spending just over a year as a columnist at the tabloid \"Sunday Pictorial\", later renamed the \"Sunday Mirror\". His first article was an attack on the stance of the United Nations during the Korean War, in which he argued that the UN was merely a front for American policy. After leaving the \"Sunday Pictorial\" in 1952, in the wake of editor Philip Zec's dismissal, he began writing a weekly column the following year for the \"Daily Herald\" until 1956. From 1957 until 1982 he wrote for the \"Sunday Express\", owned by his friend and patron Lord Beaverbrook. His first column for that paper was \"Why Must We Soft-Soap The Germans?\", in which he complained that the majority of Germans were still Nazis at heart and argued the European Economic Community was little more than an attempt by the Germans to achieve via trade what they failed to accomplish through arms in the First and Second World Wars. At a time when the relationship with the EEC was a major issue in Britain, Taylor's pro-Commonwealth Euroscepticism became a common theme in many of his articles. Other frequent targets were the BBC, the anti-smoking lobby, and reversing his earlier stance, the motor car, with Taylor calling for all private motor vehicles to be banned.\n\nThe Second World War gave Taylor the opportunity to branch out from print journalism, initially into radio and then later television. On 17 March 1942 Taylor made the first of seven appearances on \"The World at War – Your Questions Answered\" broadcast by BBC Forces' Radio. After the war Taylor became one of the first television historians. His appearances began with his role as a panellist on the BBC's \"In The News\" from 1950 to 1954. Here he was noted for his argumentative style, and in one episode he declined to acknowledge the presence of the other panellists. The press came to refer to him as the \"sulky don\" and in 1954 he was dropped. From 1955 Taylor was a panellist on ITV's rival discussion programme \"Free Speech\", where he remained until the series ended in 1961. In 1957, 1957–1958 and 1961 he made a number of half-hour programmes on ITV in which he lectured without notes on a variety of topics, such as the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the First World War. These were huge ratings successes. Despite earlier strong feelings against the BBC, he lectured for a BBC historical series in 1961 and made more series for it in 1963, 1976, 1977 and 1978. He also hosted additional series for ITV in 1964, 1966 and 1967. In \"Edge of Britain\" in 1980 he toured the towns of northern England. Taylor's final TV appearance was in the series \"How Wars End\" in 1985, where the effects of Parkinson's disease on him were apparent.\n\nTaylor had a famous rivalry with the historian Hugh Trevor-Roper, with whom he often debated on television. One of the more famous exchanges took place in 1961. Trevor-Roper said \"I'm afraid that your book \"The Origins of the Second World War\" may damage your reputation as a historian\", to which Taylor replied \"Your criticism of me would damage your reputation as a historian, if you had one.\"\n\nThe origins of the dispute went back to 1957 when the Regius Professorship for History at Oxford was vacant. Despite their divergent political philosophies, Taylor and Trevor-Roper had been friends since the early 1950s, but with the possibility of the Regius Professorship, both men lobbied for it. The Conservative Prime Minister Harold Macmillan awarded the chair to the Tory Trevor-Roper rather than the Labourite Taylor. In addition, a number of the other Oxford dons had felt that Taylor's profile in journalism was \"demeaning\" to the historian's craft and had lobbied against him.\n\nIn public, Taylor declared that he would never have accepted any honour from a government that had \"the blood of Suez on its hands\". In private, he was furious with Trevor-Roper for holding an honour that Taylor considered rightfully his. Adding to Taylor's rancour was the fact that he had arrived at Oxford a decade before Trevor-Roper. From then on, Taylor never missed a chance to disparage Trevor-Roper's character or scholarship. The famously combative Trevor-Roper reciprocated. The feud was given much publicity by the media, not so much because of the merits of their disputes but rather because their acrimonious debates on television made for entertaining viewing. Likewise, the various articles written by Taylor and Trevor-Roper denouncing each other's scholarship, in which both men's considerable powers of invective were employed with maximum effect, made for entertaining reading. Beyond that, it was fashionable to portray the dispute between Taylor and Trevor-Roper as a battle between generations. Taylor, with his populist, irreverent style, was nearly a decade older than Trevor-Roper, but was represented by the media as a symbol of the younger generation that was coming of age in the 1950s–1960s. Trevor-Roper, who was unabashedly old-fashioned (he was one of the last Oxford dons to lecture wearing his professor's robes) and inclined to behave in a manner that the media portrayed as pompous and conceited, was seen as a symbol of the older generation. A subtle but important difference in the style between the two historians was their manner of addressing each other during their TV debates: Trevor-Roper always addressed Taylor as \"Mr Taylor\" or just \"Taylor\", while Taylor always addressed Trevor-Roper as \"Hugh\".\n\nAnother frequent sparring partner on TV for Taylor was the writer Malcolm Muggeridge. The frequent television appearances helped to make Taylor the most famous British historian of the 20th century. It was a measure of his fame that featured in a cameo in the 1981 film \"Time Bandits\" and was satirised in an episode of \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\", in which a scantily clad woman (identified by an onscreen caption as \"A. J. P. Taylor, Historian\"), dubbed over with a man's voice, delivers a lecture on \"Eighteenth Century Social Reform\". Another foray into the world of entertainment occurred in the 1960s when he served as the historical consultant for both the stage and film versions of \"Oh, What a Lovely War!\". Though he possessed great charm and charisma and a sense of humour, as he aged he presented himself as, and came to be seen as, cantankerous and irascible.\n\nThroughout his life, Taylor took public stands on the great issues of his time. In the early 1930s, he was in a left-wing pacifist group called the Manchester Peace Council, for which he frequently spoke in public. Until 1936, Taylor was an opponent of British rearmament as he felt that a re-armed Britain would ally itself with Germany against the Soviet Union. However, after 1936, he resigned from the Manchester Peace Council, urged British rearmament in the face of what Taylor considered to be the Nazi menace, and advocated an Anglo-Soviet alliance to contain Germany. After 1936, he also fervently criticised appeasement, a stance that he would disavow in 1961.\n\nIn 1938, he denounced the Munich Agreement at several rallies and may have written several leaders in the \"Manchester Guardian\" criticising it; later, he would compare the smaller number of Czechoslovak dead with the number of Polish dead. In October 1938, Taylor attracted particular controversy by a speech he gave at a dinner held every October to commemorate a protest by a group of Oxford dons against James II in 1688, an event that was an important prelude to the Glorious Revolution. He denounced the Munich Agreement and those who supported it, warning the assembled dons that if action were not taken immediately to resist Nazi Germany, then they might all soon be living under the rule of a much greater tyrant than James II. Taylor's speech was highly contentious, in part because in October 1938 the Munich Agreement was popular with the public even if subsequently it was to be reviled along with the policy of appeasement, and also because he used a non-partisan and non-political occasion to make a highly partisan, politically charged attack on government policy.\n\nThroughout his life, Taylor was sympathetic to the foreign policy of the Soviet Union, and after 1941 he was overjoyed to have the Soviet Union as Britain's ally, as this was the realisation of his desire for an Anglo-Soviet alliance. The Second World War further increased Taylor's pro-Soviet feelings, as he was always profoundly grateful for the Red Army's role in destroying Nazi Germany. Despite his pro-Soviet views he was strongly critical of Stalinism, and in 1948 he attended and did his best to sabotage a Stalinist cultural congress in Wrocław, Poland. His speech, which was broadcast live on Polish radio and via speakers on the streets of Wrocław, about the right of everyone to hold different views from those who hold power, was enthusiastically received by the delegates and was met with thunderous applause. The speech was clearly intended as a rebuttal of a speech given by the Soviet writer Alexander Fadeyev the previous day, who had demanded obedience on the part of everyone to Joseph Stalin.\n\nAfter 1945, he was very disappointed to see Britain choose the United States, not the Soviet Union, as its major ally. As a socialist, Taylor saw the capitalist system as wrong on practical and moral grounds, although he rejected the Marxist view that capitalism was responsible for wars and conflicts. He felt that the status quo in the West was highly unstable and prone to accidents, and prevented a just and moral international system from coming into being. Moreover, Taylor was enraged by the decision of the Western powers, which he blamed on the US, to re-build and establish the West German state in the late 1940s, which Taylor saw as laying the foundations for a Fourth Reich that would one day plunge the world back into war.\n\nHe also blamed the United States for the Cold War, and in the 1950s and 1960s was one of the leading lights of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. Though he preferred that the United Kingdom be neutral in the Cold War, he felt that if Britain should have to align itself with a major power, the best partner was the Soviet Union rather than America, which in Taylor's opinion was carrying out reckless policies that increased the risk of World War Three. Taylor never visited the United States, despite receiving many invitations.\n\nIn 1950 he was again temporarily banned by the BBC when he attempted to deliver a radio address against British participation in the Korean War. After a public outcry, the BBC relented and allowed him to deliver his address. In 1956 Taylor demonstrated against the Suez War, though not the Soviet crushing of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, which he believed had saved Hungary from a return to the rule of Admiral Miklós Horthy. He also championed Israel, which he saw as a model socialist democracy threatened by reactionary Arab dictatorships. Taylor was also opposed to, and condemned, the US intervention in the Vietnam War.\n\nTaylor was also opposed to the British Empire and against Britain's participation in the European Economic Community and NATO.\n\nIn an interview with Irish State radio in April 1976, Taylor argued that the British presence in Northern Ireland was perpetuating the conflict there. Taylor claimed the best solution would be for an \"armed push\" by the Irish nationalists to drive out the one million Ulster Protestants from Ireland. He cited as a successful precedent the expulsion of Germans from Czechoslovakia after the Second World War. On the threat of civil war should Britain quit Ireland, Taylor answered: \"What we have, after all, is an incipient civil war. To put it brutally, if there were a civil war in Northern Ireland, and I am not convinced that there would be, quite a lot of people would be killed and the war would be decided within a few months. Spread over the years, probably more people have been killed\".\n\nTaylor was fearless in championing unpopular people and causes. In 1980, he resigned from the British Academy in protest against the expulsion of the art historian and Soviet spy Anthony Blunt, which he saw as an act of McCarthyism. Closer to his work as a historian, Taylor championed less government secrecy and, paradoxically for a staunch leftist, fought for more privately owned television stations. His experiences with being banned by the BBC had led him to appreciate the value of having many broadcasters. In regard to government archives, Taylor took part in a successful attempt to lobby the British government to replace the 50-year rule with a 30-year rule.\n\nTaylor held fierce Germanophobic views. In 1944, he was temporarily banned from the BBC following complaints about a series of lectures he gave on air in which he gave full vent to his anti-German feelings. In his 1945 book, \"The Course of German History\", he argued that National Socialism was the inevitable product of the entire history of the Germans going back to the days of the Germanic tribes. He was an early champion of what has since been called the \"Sonderweg\" (Special Way) interpretation of German history, that German culture and society developed over the centuries in such a way as to make Nazi Germany inevitable. Moreover, he argued that there was a symbiotic relationship between Hitler and the German people, with Adolf Hitler needing the Germans to fulfil his dreams of conquest and the German people needing Hitler to fulfil their dreams of subjugation of their neighbours. In particular, he accused the Germans of waging an endless Drang nach Osten against their Slavic neighbours since the days of Charlemagne. For Taylor, Nazi racial imperialism was a continuation of policies pursued by every German ruler. \"The Course of German History\" was a best-seller in both the United Kingdom and the United States; it was the success of this book that made Taylor's reputation in the United States. Its success also marked the beginning of the breach between Taylor and his mentor Namier, who wanted to write a similar book. By the 1950s, relations between Taylor and Namier had noticeably cooled and in his 1983 autobiography, \"A Personal History\", Taylor, though acknowledging a huge intellectual debt to Namier, portrayed him as a pompous bore.\n\nTaylor's approach to history was a populist one. He felt that history should be open to all and enjoyed being called the \"People's Historian\" and the \"Everyman's Historian\". He usually favoured an anti-Great man theory, history being made for the most part by towering figures of stupidity rather than of genius. In his view, leaders did not make history; instead they reacted to events — what happened in the past was due to sequences of blunders and errors that were largely outside anyone's control. To the extent that anyone made anything happen in history, it was only through their mistakes.\n\nThough Taylor normally preferred to portray leaders as fools blundering their way forward, it is fair to add that he did think that individuals sometimes could play a positive role in history—his heroes were Vladimir Lenin and David Lloyd George. But for Taylor, people like Lloyd George and Lenin were the exceptions. Despite Taylor's increasing ambivalence toward appeasement from the late 1950s, which became explicitly evident in his 1961 book \"Origins of the Second World War\", Winston Churchill remained another of his heroes. In \"English History 1914–1945\" (1965) he famously concluded his biographical footnote of Churchill with the phrase \"the saviour of his country.\" Another person Taylor admired was the historian E. H. Carr, who was his favourite historian and a good friend.\n\nHis narratives used irony and humour to entertain as well as inform. He examined history from odd angles, exposing what he considered to be the pomposities of various historical characters. He was famed for \"Taylorisms\": witty, epigrammatic, and sometimes cryptic remarks that were meant to expose what he considered to be the absurdities and paradoxes of modern international relations. An example is in his television piece \"Mussolini\" (1970), in which he said the dictator \"kept up with his work — by doing none.\" Or, about Metternich's political philosophies: \"Most men could do better while shaving\". His determination to bring history to everyone drove his frequent appearances on radio and later on television. He was also careful to puncture any aura of infallibility that historians might have. On one occasion when asked what he thought the future might bring, he replied \"Dear boy, you should never ask an historian to predict the future – frankly we have a hard enough time predicting the past.\" Taylor wrote about \"English History 1914-1945\" that he offered up a parody of Oxford historians:\"...delivering the Judgement of History in the highest Olympian spirit. I followed their example except the poor were always right and the rich always wrong-a judgement that happens to be correct historically. Some of the details were also a parody, as for instance the solemn discussion as when 'Fuck' attained literary through not conversational respectability. I had more fun writing \"English History 1914-1945\" than in writing any of my other books\".\n\nTaylor has been credited with coining the term \"the Establishment\" in a 1953 book review, but this is disputed. On 29 August 1953, in reviewing a biography of William Cobbett in \"New Statesman\", Taylor wrote \"The Establishment draws in recruits from outside as soon as they are ready to conform to its standards and become respectable. There is nothing more agreeable in life than to make peace with the Establishment — and nothing more corrupting.\"\n\nIn 1967, Taylor wrote an article for the Sunday Express in which he argued that speed limits had made absolutely no positive difference to road safety and that 'on the contrary, [speed limits] tend to increase the risks and dangers'. Taylor went on to claim 'I have been driving a car for 45 years. I have consistently ignored all the various speed limits. Never once have I encountered the slightest risk as a result'. The article caused a member of the public to lodge a complaint with the Press Council, on the grounds that Taylor's remarks 'amount[ed] to an indirect incitement to drivers to break the law'. The Council eventually rejected the complaint and ruled that 'while Mr Taylor's views are controversial, he has an unchallengeable right to express them'.\n\n\"The Origins of the Second World War\" was received negatively in some quarters when it was published in 1961. The book set off a huge storm of controversy and debate that lasted for years. At least part of the vehement criticism was due to the confusion in the public's mind between Taylor's book and another book published in 1961, \"Der Erzwungene Krieg\" (\"The Forced War\") by the American historian David Hoggan. Taylor criticised Hoggan's thesis that Germany was the innocent victim of an Anglo-Polish conspiracy in 1939 as nonsense but many critics confused Taylor's thesis with Hoggan's.\nMost of the criticism was over Taylor's arguments for appeasement as a rational political strategy, his mechanistic portrayal of a world destined for another world war by post-war settlement of 1918–1919, his depiction of the Second World War as an \"accident\" caused by diplomatic blunders, his portrayal of Hitler as a \"normal leader\" and what many considered his flippant dismissal of Nazi ideology as a motivating force. Leading the charge against Taylor was his arch-enemy Trevor-Roper, who contended that Taylor had wilfully and egregiously misinterpreted the evidence. In particular, Trevor-Roper criticised Taylor's argument that the Hossbach Memorandum of 1937 was a meaningless document because none of the scenarios outlined in the Memorandum as the prerequisite for war such as the Spanish Civil War leading to a war between Italy and France in the Mediterranean or civil war breaking out in France occurred. In Trevor-Roper's opinion, what really mattered about the Hossbach Memorandum was that Hitler clearly expressed an intention to go to war sooner rather than later and it was Hitler's intentions rather than his plans at the time which mattered. However, in the newest edition of the book, Taylor argues that the significant parts, if not the whole, of the memorandum are in fact fabrications. Other historians who criticised \"The Origins of the Second World War\" included; Isaac Deutscher, Louis Morton, Barbara Tuchman, Ian Morrow, Gerhard Weinberg, G.F. Hudson, Elizabeth Wiskemann, W.N. Medlicott, Tim Mason, John Lukacs, Karl Dietrich Bracher, Frank Freidel, Harry Hinsley, John Wheeler-Bennett, Golo Mann, Lucy Dawidowicz, Gordon A. Craig, A. L. Rowse, Raymond Sontag, Andreas Hillgruber and Yehuda Bauer.\nRowse, who had once been a close friend of Taylor's, attacked him with an intensity and vehemence that was second only to Trevor-Roper's. In addition, several historians wrote books on the origins of the Second World War with the aim of refuting Taylor's thesis. Taylor was angered by some of the criticism, especially the implication that he had set out to exonerate Hitler, writing that \"to the best of my recollection, those who now display indignation against me were not active [against appeasement] on the public platform.\" Some notable examples include Gerhard Weinberg's two-volume \"The Foreign Policy of Hitler's Germany\" and Andreas Hillgruber's \"Deutschlands Rolle in der Vorgeschichte der beiden Weltkriege\", translated as \"Germany And The Two World Wars\".\n\nThe issue of misinterpretation is also addressed in Gordon A. Craig's book \"Germany: 1866–1945\", where it is argued that Taylor dismissed Hitler's foreign policy, as presented in \"Mein Kampf\", and in particular, the remilitarisation of the Rhineland, as a jumble of idle thoughts written down under the impact of the French occupation of the Ruhr.\n\nAs angry as the reaction in Britain was to \"The Origins of the Second World War\", it was greater when the book was published in January 1962 in the United States. With the exception of Harry Elmer Barnes and Murray Rothbard, every American historian who reviewed Taylor's book gave it a negative review. Perhaps ironically, Taylor had indirectly criticised Barnes when he wrote contemptuously of certain self-styled American Revisionist historians whose work Taylor characterised as marked by obsessive loathing for their own country, nostalgia for isolationism, hatred for the New Deal and a tendency to engage in bizarre conspiracy theories. Despite the best efforts of Barnes and his protégé David Hoggan to recruit Taylor to their cause, Taylor always made clear that he wanted nothing to do with either Barnes or Hoggan.\n\nDespite the criticism, \"The Origins of the Second World War\" is regarded as a watershed in the historiography of the origins of the Second World War. In general, historians have praised Taylor for the following:\n\n\nAnother criticism is of Taylor's views on Italy. Taylor drew a picture of Benito Mussolini as a great showman but an inept leader with no beliefs. The first part of this picture has not been generally challenged by historians but the second part has been questioned. Taylor argued that Mussolini was sincere when he helped forge the Stresa Front with Britain and France to resist any German challenge to the \"status quo\" in Europe and that only the League of Nations sanctions imposed on Fascist Italy for Italian invasion of Ethiopia drove Mussolini into an alliance with Nazi Germany. Recently, a number of specialists in Italian history have challenged this by arguing that Mussolini possessed a belief in the \"spazio vitale\" (vital space) as a guiding foreign policy concept in which the entire Mediterranean, the Balkans, the Middle East and the Horn of Africa were regarded as rightfully belonging to Italy, leading to inevitable conflict with the two dominant Mediterranean powers, Britain and France.\n\nFinally, Taylor has been criticised for promoting the \"La décadence\" view of the French Third Republic. This historical concept portrays the Third Republic as a decadent state, forever on the verge of collapse. In particular, advocates of the \"La décadence\" concept have asserted that inter-war France was riven by political instability; possessed a leadership that was deeply divided, corrupt, incompetent and pusillanimous, which ruled over a nation rent by mass unemployment, strikes, a sense of despair over the future, riots and a state of near-civil war between the Left and the Right. Of all the French governments of the interwar era, only the Popular Front government of Léon Blum was presented sympathetically by Taylor, which he praised for carrying out what he regarded as long overdue social reforms. Many experts in French history have admitted that there is a kernel of truth to Taylor's picture of France but have complained that Taylor presented French politics and society in such a manner as to border on caricature.\n\nTaylor was badly injured in 1984 when he was run over by a car while crossing Old Compton Street in London. The effect of the accident led to his retirement in 1985. In his last years, he endured Parkinson's disease, which left him incapable of writing. His last public appearance was at his 80th birthday, in 1986, when a group of his former students, including Sir Martin Gilbert, Alan Sked, Norman Davies and Paul Kennedy, organised a public reception in his honour. He had, with considerable difficulty, memorised a short speech, which he delivered in a manner that managed to hide the fact that his memory and mind had been permanently damaged by Parkinson's disease.\n\nIn 1987, he entered a nursing home in Barnet, London, where he died on 7 September 1990 aged 84. He was cremated at Golders Green Crematorium.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "48656020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48656020", "title": "Amil Mammedali oglu Maharramov", "text": "Amil Mammedali oglu Maharramov\n\nAmil Mammedali oglu Maharramov (; born December 24, 1974 in Azerbaijan) is an Azerbaijani economic, Doctor of science of economic, Professor.\n\nMaharramov Amil Mammedalioglu was born on 24 December 1974 in Baku (Azerbaijani Republic).In 1991 he finished school No. 54 in Baku.\n\nIn 1991-1996 he graduated from Baku State University faculty “Social sciences and psychology”, speciality “Economic theory” with honors. In 1996-2000 he graduated from post-graduate course at Baku State University by majoring in “Economic theory”.\n\nHe started to work in December 1995 as a chief technician in İnstitute of Economy in Azerbaijan National Academia of Sciences. In 1999, he served as lecturer at the Baku State University. From 1999 to 2006Maharramov Amil Mammedaliogli was working as a lecturer, senior lecturer, docent at the Department of “International Economic Relations and Management”. From the 2002 he worked as “International relations and international law” faculty deputy dean. From 2006 till now he is a docent and the head of the department of “Organization of Customs Business and management”. From 2015 he is professor of this department.\n\nAcademy degrees obtained.\n\n\nHeistheauthorof170 scientificresearches (251,5p.p.), included: 4 monographs, 15 training programs, 1 manuals, 1 tutorial and 3 textbooks.\nAbout 20 scientific articles was published in the materials of international conferences, symposiums and congresses.\n\nThe study of modern trends of the world economy, regulation of foreign economic activities and business management issues.\n\nForeign economic activity - regulation of foreign economic activity in a market economy, economic security and protection of national interests, the selection and application of rational methods, forms and means of the construction of foreign economic relations, the study of the problems associated with the place, role and functions of the state in the regulation of foreign economic activity, especially international trade during the occurrence of economics and in modern times, its theoretical concepts, foreign trade policy, the mechanism of regulation of foreign trade, the system of customs payments, the customs tariff as the general form of customs duties and taxes, especially exchange relations and monetary policy in foreign trade activities, documentation of foreign economic activity, economic security and mechanisms of its maintenance, the current state of foreign trade operations in Azerbaijan and tendencies of development prospects, non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity.\n\nNew economic problems - theoretical and methodological mechanisms of regulation of structural reforms, small and medium enterprises, regional economy, tourism, globalization and regionalization, the Great Silk Road transport corridor North-South cooperation and to stimulate socio-economic growth, the problems of the third sector development, improvement of social ensuring the principles of the system and situational approach to the analysis of investment projects, prospects of development of regional business, tariff preferences and progressive model of customs business, national, economic, energy food and transportation security, information and communication technologies, the concept of e-government, e-government development, development the information society, the economy of information resources.\n\nProblems of the Development of Education - the Bologna process, training of masters, economic diplomacy, the economy of the company, training of the world economy, the preparation of master's theses, the organization of scientific research and scientific-pedagogical practice masters, development and presentation of abstracts, preparation of PhD and doctors.\n\n\n\n\nTrends in the development of the world economy and the problems of economic diplomacy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19759969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19759969", "title": "Andrew Ryan (BioShock)", "text": "Andrew Ryan (BioShock)\n\nAndrew Ryan is a fictional character in the \"BioShock\" video game series developed by Irrational Games. He serves as the primary antagonist of the first half of the first \"BioShock\" and a minor character in its sequel, \"BioShock 2\". Ryan is an idealistic business magnate in the 1940s and 1950s; seeking to avoid scrutiny from governments and other oversight, he ordered the secret construction of an underwater city, Rapture. When Ryan's vision for a utopia in Rapture collapsed into dystopia, he hid himself away and used armies of mutated humans (\"Splicers\") to defend himself and fight against those resisting him, including the player-character Jack within the first game.\n\nRyan was created by Irrational Games' Ken Levine, based on figures like Ayn Rand, Howard Hughes, Citizen Kane, and Walt Disney. The character has received significant praise from critics, with \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" ranking him ninth on their list of top ten video game politicians. He is voiced by Armin Shimerman, whose voice acting was cited as one of the contributing factors to the success of \"BioShock\" as it won \"Best Use of Sound\" from IGN. Ryan has been compared to several different real-life and fictional figures, and his world of Rapture compared to the world of Galt's Gulch in the Ayn Rand novel \"Atlas Shrugged\".\n\n\"BioShock\" director Ken Levine described Andrew Ryan as a character of ideals, in contrast to the game's other antagonist, Frank Fontaine, who has no ideals. Designing the encounter between the player and Ryan was a controversial decision for the developers, due to the question of what the player's motive is at this point. Ryan taking his own life to prevent Jack, the protagonist, from accomplishing this, was described as the \"ultimate insult\" by Levine. The scene took a long time for the developers to finish. Levine stated that they figured out who the character of Andrew Ryan is too early, adding that they underestimated the impact that this would make. While he is saner than the opponents the players encounter before him, including a plastic surgeon who takes his ideal of beauty too far, he is as unmovable as they are, unwilling to change his ideals. When discussing how many people would get the good ending to \"BioShock\", he commented that Ryan would not, choosing to take the easier path.\n\nIn creating the world of Rapture, Levine imagined a utopia that its creators did not want the outside world to discover. Following this, he created the character of Ryan as its creator, giving him a \"pseudo-objectivism and extremely capitalistic view on the world\" as well as a fear of the New Dealers in the United States and communists in Russia would find it. Levine states that to him, Ryan's philosophies come from Art Deco, describing the style as, \"Yes, we are men, and we control the universe!\" He considered Ryan a combination of historical figures such as Howard Hughes and Ayn Rand; and, though he compared Ryan to John Galt, he considered Ryan more similar to a real person, making mistakes and having fear and doubts. Levine purposely named Ryan as he did, using a semi-anagram of Ayn Rand's name to establish the connection. During a questions and answers segment, a questioner stated that he did not want to kill Ryan, asking Levine, \"Are [we] still doomed to make games where we have to use plot devices to clean that up?\" to which Levine responded that video games were admittedly linear, saying that it was hard enough to come up with one good plot, let alone multiple ones. Levine stated that he did not expect the \"ugly comedown from the stratospheric highs\" from the Andrew Ryan scene near the end.\n\nAndrew Ryan has objectivist ideals, to a degree that they are the most important thing to him, more so than his own life. He has an enormous hatred of what he refers to as \"parasites\" consisting mainly of people who support left-wing political viewpoints, namely socialism and communism. Ryan also has a vast hatred for the religious, as well as the altruistic, as he believes altruism to be the root of all evil.\n\nRyan is a strong supporter of meritocracy. He believes that all individuals have the right to keep what they earn and the place to live without government interference, with \"parasites\" being the only ones who would attempt to deny mankind that of free will. Ryan accentuates this belief to the extreme, denouncing all laws. One of Ryan's main ethics is that of free market, asserting that all industry should be kept completely unfettered by government intervention. But Ryan is also a vociferous dictator, ruling without government interference. He keeps the city on tight curfews and martial law when the civil war starts and the people start killing each other.\n\nRyan coined his own economic philosophy which he named the \"Great Chain of Industry,\" or simply the \"Great Chain\", similar to the \"invisible hand of the market\" metaphor coined by Adam Smith. Ryan conceptualised all of society as bound together by an invisible, intangible \"chain\" of economic inter-relations. This great, invisible chain of industry only pulls society in the right direction when all pull on it to serve their own interests, i.e. in a totally free market completely free of any government regulation (similar to Ayn Rand's views of totally unregulated capitalism). This principle extended to the point that Ryan opposed regulation for basic quality control or safety, on the grounds that the \"Great Chain\" of the free market would ensure that a stable level of quality was maintained without outside interference. As a practical result, after fifteen years this plunged Rapture's economy into a race to the bottom: every product was made as cheaply as possible and at the lowest quality, meaning that the only way any one business could turn a profit was to also sell low quality products at inflated prices.\n\nA strong atheist, Ryan disregards all forms of organised religion.\n\nThe player only encounters Ryan once in person throughout the entire \"BioShock\" franchise, with most of his appearance being made via radio transmission and audio diaries. Ryan is always seen with his hair slicked back and sporting a smart suit and necktie. In an image the player encounters of Ryan during the \"Welcome to Rapture\" and \"Rapture Control Centre\" levels, he can be seen wearing a black fedora.\n\nRyan's first appearance in the franchise is in \"BioShock\", the first installment of the series. He created \"BioShock\"s world, Rapture, as a means to escape from such constraints as religion, communism, and altruism. Rapture eventually fell apart after the scientist Brigid Tenenbaum discovered a substance she later named \"ADAM\". While the initial properties of her new discovery were confusing, she later diagnosed that when \"ADAM\" was injected via a hypodermic syringe into the arm, it allows the user to \"bend the double-helix\" and provides what could be described as \"superpowers.\" However, the long-term effects of ADAM soon became obvious later, as the substance is highly addictive and both mental and physical deterioration begin to occur.\n\nWhen Jack (the player's character in \"BioShock\") arrives in Rapture, Ryan views him as a threat, initially believing him to be a government agent, most likely sent by the Russian KGB or the American CIA. Ryan attempts to do whatever possible to kill Jack, who is aided by Ryan's nemesis, Atlas. Over the course of the game it is gradually revealed to the player that Jack is actually Andrew Ryan's illegitimate son. Ryan had sexual intercourse with a young female stripper named Jasmine Jolene, resulting in her pregnancy, though Ryan was not aware of this. Throughout Rapture's history Ryan had frequent encounters with a smuggler named Frank Fontaine, who later became a leading figure in Rapture's genetic arms race towards the end of the 1950s. Fontaine decided to take advantage of this opportunity, and paid a high-ranking employee of his, Brigid Tenenbaum, to purchase the embryo from Jolene, which Jolene agreed to simply because she \"needed the money.\" After Andrew Ryan became aware of this, he brutally murdered her, leaving her corpse on a bed in the \"Eve's Garden\" strip club. Fontaine later named the child, \"Jack\", and ordered a scientist under his employment, Dr. Yi Suchong to accelerate Jack's growth, and make him vulnerable to several mental techniques; one such technique was to force Jack to perform any requested action by pronouncing the phrase \"Would you kindly...\".\n\nWhen Andrew Ryan and Jack finally meet, Ryan states that Jack was his \"greatest disappointment.\" Ryan gives a short monologue, explaining his past to Jack, and saying how little he differs from a simple slave. According to Ryan, \"In the end, what separates a man from a slave? Money? Power? No... A man chooses, a slave obeys.\" Ryan hands Jack his golf putter, and then asks Jack, using the \"would you kindly\" phrase, to kill him, which Jack is forced to do.\n\nRyan also appears through audio diaries in \"BioShock's\" sequel, \"BioShock 2\", which give the player an expanded insight into Ryan's history and ideals.\n\nHe is ranked ninth in \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"s list of the top ten video game politicians. IGN editor Charles Onyett described him as \"anything but a prototypical villain\", describing him as having a bottomless ambition for creating a city at the bottom of the sea. He added that while his words resemble \"totalitarian propaganda\", players cannot help but sympathise with him.\nDuring a discussion about the potential plot of the game's sequel \"BioShock 2\", editor Hilary Goldstein said that Ryan should reappear in it, and that while it should be in a new area, it should still have connections to him. Onyett called Ryan a key element, and if not included in the sequel, there would be a dramatic loss of personality. He claimed that much of Rapture's personality comes from Ryan, and it would have much less of an impact without him. Editor Ryan Geddes agreed, adding that he felt there was more to Ryan than Rapture. Editor Nate Ahem suggested that the game's sequel, \"BioShock 2\", could potentially put the players in the role of Ryan, to explore the story of trying to create a perfect world and having it crumble beneath their feet.\n\nGamasutra editor Leigh Alexander ranked him the third most affecting character of 2007, behind GLaDOS from \"Portal\" and player-created characters such as in massive multiplayer online role-playing games. Leigh calls him a \"cautionary example of the danger of pure philosophy\", adding that while he begins as the primary antagonist, players sympathise with him once it becomes clear that he is so \"bitterly wrong\". Adam Volk of Gamasutra described him as a fascinating take on the mad scientist character, adding that if more developers steer away from stereotypes of the character type, these characters could easily rival those in film, television, or novels. In the book \"Halos and Avatars: Playing Video Games with God\", author Craig Detweiler calls him an \"obvious reference to the objectivist writer and philosopher Ayn Rand\".\n\nOnyett praised Shimerman for his portrayal of Ryan, calling him a \"joy to listen to\" and adding that he would \"give Stephen Colbert a run for his money.\" 411 Mania editor Adam Larck agreed, praising the introduction Ryan gives to the player as they enter Rapture. Game Chronicles editor Mark Smith praised the voice acting of the game, praising Shimerman's commitment to the story and theme. Total PlayStation editor gave similar praise to Shimerman, commenting that he and Atlas' voice actor rounded out the cast. Worthplaying editor Brian Dumlao commented that Ryan's voice \"conveys ... the struggle of a man whose ideals are being threatened by a rival businessman\", and praising the delivery of the actors to why the story is so good. In their Game of the Year awards, IGN praised the voice acting, citing Ryan's speech he delivers to players as what convinced them. They awarded \"BioShock\" \"Best use of sound\".\n\nHe has been compared to several other characters in fiction and real life. Ryan's world of Rapture has been compared to that of Ayn Rand's \"Atlas Shrugged\". Blog Critics editor described Ryan as arrogant, greedy, and naive, adding that these traits led Rapture to destruction. Lou Kesten of the San Francisco Chronicle also made this comparison, comparing the name \"Andrew Ryan\" to the author, \"Ayn Rand\", in its similarity. Onyett agreed, describing him as a \"Randian hero\". He has also been compared to the eponymous character of \"Citizen Kane\". Official Xbox Magazine editor Dan Griliopoulos likened his appearance to that of Gomez Addams, the father from \"The Addams Family\". IGN editors Phil Pirrello and Christopher Monfette described him as being more communist than Vladimir Lenin, the first head of state of the Soviet Union, also comparing him to Italian philosopher and writer Niccolò Machiavelli. While discussing potential actors who could portray Ryan in the upcoming \"BioShock\" film, IGN editors chose Anthony Hopkins as the perfect choice for the role.\n\nIGN later put Andrew Ryan at number 10 in their list of the Top 100 Videogame Villains, saying, \"The force of his personality and clarity of his vision is admirable throughout the game. Rapture wouldn't be nearly as interesting without Ryan and his complementing the action and exploration, shouting propaganda and taking every opportunity to broadcast his world view.\" The \"PlayStation Official Magazine\" placed him as the eighth best videogame villain on PS3.\n\n"}
{"id": "3781033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3781033", "title": "Andy Daly", "text": "Andy Daly\n\nAndrew Daly (born April 15, 1971) is an American actor, comedian, and writer. He starred as Forrest MacNeil on the Comedy Central series \"Review\", and had a supporting role in the HBO comedy series \"Eastbound & Down\" as Terrence Cutler. He has also made recurring appearances on television programs such as \"Silicon Valley\", \"Modern Family\", \"Black-ish\", \"Trial & Error\", the Netflix series \"The Who Was? Show\", \"Reno 911!\", and \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\" as well as animated shows such as \"Bob's Burgers\" and \"Adventure Time\"\n\nDaly was born in Mount Kisco, New York, and was raised in New Jersey. He graduated in 1989 from Ridgewood High School in Ridgewood, New Jersey, and then attended Ithaca College, where he received a bachelor's degree in drama.\n\nAfter college, Daly moved to New York City, where he performed, along with Andy Secunda, in the sketch comedy duo The Two Andys, which appeared at the 1999 Aspen Comedy Festival. He was also a part of the Mainstage company at Chicago City Limits as an improvisational actor.\n\nWhen the Upright Citizens Brigade relocated to New York from Chicago in 1996, Daly was one of the first New Yorkers to study improvisation with the group and performed in many of the earliest shows produced by the UCB. He was a member of the long-form improvisation group The Swarm, which was assembled and directed by Amy Poehler.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, Daly appeared frequently in sketches on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" and lent his voice to Robert Smigel's \"TV Funhouse\" cartoons on \"Saturday Night Live\".\n\nIn 2000, Daly joined the cast of \"MADtv\". He was a featured player in the show's 6th season and returned as a full cast member the following season.\n\nHe next appeared on television in the main cast of Comedy Central's parody news show \"Crossballs\" and later played several different characters on \"Reno 911!\", recurring as \"Brad the Friendly Homeowner\". He also worked as a correspondent on \"The Showbiz Show with David Spade\" for all three seasons and as an advocate on both seasons of \"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\".\n\nIn 2007, Daly appeared as a Benjamin Franklin impersonator in an episode of \"The Office\" entitled \"Ben Franklin\".\n\nIn 2008, Daly joined the cast of the HBO series \"Eastbound & Down\" as Terrence Cutler. \n\nHe made frequent appearances on HBO's \"The Life and Times of Tim\", Adult Swim's \"Delocated\", and IFC's \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\" as well as \"Adventure Time\", for which he provided the voices of Wyatt and The King of Ooo. He is also the voice of Krombopolous Michael on \"Rick and Morty\".\n\nDaly appeared in the NBC sitcom \"The Paul Reiser Show\", which was a midseason replacement for the 2010–11 television season. The show was cancelled after two episodes.\n\nStarting in 2014, Daly has guest starred in the ABC sitcom \"Modern Family\" as Principal Brown and has also played recurring roles on ABC’s \"Blackish\", HBO’s \"Silicon Valley\", and NBC’s \"Trial & Error\".\n\nFrom 2014 to 2017, Daly starred in, executive produced, and wrote episodes of the Comedy Central series \"Review\", which he co-adapted from the Australian series \"Review with Myles Barlow\".\n\nSince 2016, Daly has been the spokesman in commercials for CarMax.\n\nDaly has appeared in numerous films, most notably as courtside announcer Dick Pepperfield in the 2008 film \"Semi-Pro\" starring Will Ferrell.\n\nIn 2004, Daly appeared in the movie \"Christmas with the Kranks\" as a shopper who is bribed by Jamie Lee Curtis' character Nora Krank into giving her a Christmas ham.\n\nIn 2010, Daly co-starred as Mayor Brown in the 3D live action/CGI film version of \"Yogi Bear\" and appeared in \"She's Out of My League\" as Fuller.\n\nHe had a small role in the 2011 film, \"\" as a mailroom worker.\n\nIn 2016, he played Principal Dwight in \"\".\n\nDaly does many different characters in his stand-up. In 2007, a character named \"Jerry O'Hearn\" was featured on the \"Comedy Death-Ray\" compilation album. In 2008, Daly released the critically acclaimed \"Nine Sweaters\", a comedy album compiled from a nine-week residency at Comedy Death-Ray's Tuesday night shows, on AST Records.\n\nIn December 2010, Daly performed stand-up on \"The Benson Interruption\" on Comedy Central.\n\nDaly has made a number of appearances on podcasts such as \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\", \"Superego\", \"How Did This Get Made?\", \"The Nerdist Podcast\", and \"Never Not Funny\". In 2014, he began hosting the limited-run Earwolf podcast \"The Andy Daly Podcast Pilot Project\", which continued in 2018 with a second season of 8 episodes.\n\nDaly lives in Los Angeles and is married to actress Carri Levinson. They have two daughters. \n\nDaly was raised as a Catholic, and he served as an altar boy, but he converted to Judaism after marrying his wife, who comes from a Jewish family.\n\n"}
{"id": "53869938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53869938", "title": "Anno O'Rahilly", "text": "Anno O'Rahilly\n\nAnna \"Anno\" O'Rahilly (née Rahilly) (17 February 1873 – 1958) was an Irish revolutionary and Cumann na mBan member, republican prisoner and hunger-striker active in the period from 1916 to 1923. Born in Ballylongford, Co. Kerry to grocer and nationalist public representative Richard Rahilly and Ellen Mangan, she was a sister of the 1916 leader The O'Rahilly and the Cummann na mBan leader Nell Humphreys (née Rahilly). She was educated at Ursuline College Waterford and became a member of the Gaelic League. Like The O'Rahilly, she changed her name from the original Rahilly. In April 1914 she was one of a small group of women present at the founding of Cumann na mBan in Wynne's Hotel, Dublin.\n\nFollowing the death of her brother The O'Rahilly in combat in 1916 she was arrested and detained in the aftermath of the Easter rising.She provided the first money to be handled by Dail Eireann in 1919, a loan for £2000. The National Library of Ireland holds a letter from her appealing for money on behalf of republican prisoners' dependents. During the Civil war, on 4 November 1922 she was accidentally shot in the family home in Ailesbury Road by Ernie O'Malley\n\nAfter her recovery, she was detained for the rest of the civil war in Mountjoy Prison, Kilmainham Gaol and the North Dublin Union, where she was on hunger strike in October–November 1923.\n"}
{"id": "51187719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51187719", "title": "Associated Training Services", "text": "Associated Training Services\n\nAssociated Training Services, commonly known as ATS is a heavy equipment training institution based in Sun Prairie, Wisconsin. It was founded in 1959 by Robert Klabacka as the National Institute of Concrete Construction. The institute offers training programs in heavy equipment, mobile cranes, construction-related trucks, rigging, signaling, and commercial motor vehicles. ATS is one of the oldest training institution in United States of America has been an accredited sponsor providing accredited crane operator certification through the National Center for Construction Education and Research (NCCER), in Alachua, Florida since 2003,  and the National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operators (NCCCO)\n\nKlabacka started the \"Diesel Truck Driver Training School\" on eighty acres of land ten miles from Madison, Wisconsin in 1963, the organization still maintains its primary office and training facilities at the location. ATS was founded in 1996 as an affiliate of \"Diesel Truck Driver Training School\". Since its formation, Associated Training Services has become a nationally recognized school has expanded its course offerings.\n\nAssociated Training Services provides training in following types of heavy equipment.\n\n\nThe school’s crane operator training teaches people how to operate a variety of mobile cranes along with subjects such as:\n\n\nThe ATS rigger training programs will certify rigger/signalperson personnel to meet the new OSHA crane mandate. Training covers the following\n\nATS provides following CDL learners permit.\n\n\nAssociated Training Services (ATS) is also a veteran's approved training school.\n\n"}
{"id": "1303937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303937", "title": "Bat-Mite", "text": "Bat-Mite\n\nBat-Mite is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Bat-Mite is an imp similar to the Superman villain Mister Mxyzptlk. Depicted as a small, childlike man in an ill-fitting costume, Bat-Mite possesses what appear to be near-infinite magical powers, but he actually utilizes highly advanced technology from the fifth dimension that cannot be understood by humans' limited four-dimensional views. Unlike Mxyzptlk, Bat-Mite idolizes his superhero target and thus he has visited Batman on various occasions, often setting up strange events so that he could see his hero in action. Bat-Mite is more of a nuisance than a supervillain, and often departs of his own accord upon realizing that he has angered his idol.\n\nBat-Mite made his first appearance in \"Detective Comics\" #267 (May 1959) in a story titled \"Batman Meets Bat-Mite\" written by Bill Finger, with art by Sheldon Moldoff.\n\nBat-Mite regularly appeared in \"Batman\", \"Detective Comics\", and \"World's Finest Comics\" for five years. Bat-Mite and Mr. Mxyzptlk teamed up four times in the pages of \"World's Finest Comics\" to plague Superman and Batman together, as well. In 1964, however, when the Batman titles were revamped under new editor Julius Schwartz, Bat-Mite vanished along with the other extraneous members of the Batman family such as Ace the Bat-Hound. After this, only three more Bat-Mite stories were published in the pre-\"Crisis\" DC Universe: two Bat-Mite/Mr. Mxyzptlk team ups in \"World's Finest Comics\" #152 (August 1965) and #169 (September 1967) (which were not edited by Schwartz but by Mort Weisinger), and \"Bat-Mite's New York Adventure\" from \"Detective Comics\" #482 (February–March 1979), in which the imp visits the DC Comics offices and insists that he be given his own feature in a Batman comic. This story featured protestors with picket signs shouting \"We want Bat-Mite!\" outside the Tishman Building (where DC's editorial offices were located at the time), and was accompanied by an editorial comment that this story was published specifically to acknowledge the actual requests of fans for this character's revival.\n\nLater Bat-Mite appeared in a one-page story in the 200th issue of \"The Brave and the Bold\".\n\nAfter the continuity-changing 1985 limited series \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" was published, Bat-Mite was mostly removed from the Batman comics canon. Bat-Mite made an appearance in the series \"Legends of the Dark Knight\", although he may have been the hallucination of a drug-addled criminal named Bob Overdog. This comic states that Bat-Mite is one of the many admirers of superheroes from another dimension. This version of Bat-Mite later appeared in \"Batman: Mitefall\", a one-shot book which was a parody of the \"\" Batman storyline (with Overdog in the Jean-Paul Valley role). In #6 of the 1999 \"World's Finest\" miniseries, Mr. Mxyzptlk encountered Bat-Mite, shortly after being mistaken for him by Overdog. While in this story the post-\"Crisis\" Bat-Mite encountered Batman for the first time, Superman and Batman subsequently concluded that Mxyzptlk had created him, inspired by Overdog's ravings.\n\nBat-Mite also appeared in the 2000 one-shot Elseworlds comic special \"\", in which he battles Mr. Mxyzptlk, destroying the pre-\"Crisis\" multiverse and the post-\"Crisis\" DC Universe, as well as the Elseworlds of \"Kingdom Come\", \"\", and the DC animated universe. As an Elseworlds story itself, \"World's Funnest\" has no impact on continuity, as inferred from \"Dark Knight Returns\" and \"Kingdom Come\" being introduced to the official DC multiverse as a result of the series. \"52\".\n\nApart from \"World's Funnest\", there has been no direct connection between Bat-Mite and Mr. Mxyzptlk. In the \"Bizarro Comics\" anthology, Mxyzptlk's native 5th Dimension seemed to include beings similar to Bat-Mite and Johnny Thunder's Thunderbolt. Neither of these comics are considered canonical; however, in a JLA/JSA crossover in \"JLA\" and in \"JSA\" #78–80 it was revealed that both Mxyzptlk and Thunderbolt come from the 5th Dimension. Letter columns and writer interviews suggest that Bat-Mite comes from there as well, although this has never been shown thus far in the comic stories themselves.\n\nIn the post-\"Crisis\" issue \"Superman/Batman\" #25, it was revealed that the Joker had gained Fifth Dimensional powers by maintaining the essence of Mr. Mxyzptlk from the earlier \"Emperor Joker\" storyline; at the end, Bizarro was able to extract this latent magical essence from the Joker, which manifested in a form recognizable as Bat-Mite. As such, a Bat-Mite has been fully reestablished into the current continuity as an outgrowth of Mr. Mxyzptlk incubated within the Joker.\n\nThe first post-\"Infinite Crisis\" appearance of Bat-Mite was in \"Batman\" #672, written by Grant Morrison. Batman is confronted with Bat-Mite (or \"Might\") after being shot in the chest and suffering a heart attack. Might, who bears a green insectoid creature on his back, claims to have come from \"Space B at the Fivefold Expansion of Zrfff\" (at times Zrfff has been used as the name of Mr. Mxyzptlk's home dimension). Only Batman sees him. As Batman is having an increasingly difficult time keeping his grip on reality during this period, it is possible that Mite is a mental delusion.\n\nIn \"Batman\" #678, after Batman transforms himself into \"the Batman of Zur-En-Arrh\", Might reappears on the last page with him, commenting \"uh-oh\" regarding Batman's increasing delusions. He then counsels the Zur-En-Arrh Batman, a 'back-up' personality manufactured by Bruce himself to keep Batman able to fight in case he was mindwiped, or driven to insanity. \"Batman\" #680 reveals that Might is indeed a product of Batman's imagination, representing the last vestiges of Batman's rational mind within the Zur-En-Arrh Batman, although when asked by Batman whether he is an extra-dimensional being or a figment of his imagination, Bat-Mite responds that \"the fifth dimension \"is\" imagination\".\n\nIn \"Superman/Batman\" #52, Bat-Mite appears having had a bet with Mr. Mxyzptlk similar to that of \"World's Funnest\". This Bat-Mite appears to admire Batman, and Batman addresses him with familiarity.\n\nOn February 6, 2015, DC Comics announced a \"Bat-Mite\" monthly series for release in June 2015. The six-issue series concluded in November.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209068", "title": "Biblical Magi", "text": "Biblical Magi\n\nThe biblical Magi ( or ; singular: magus), also referred to as the (Three) Wise Men or (Three) Kings, were, in the Gospel of Matthew and Christian tradition, a group of distinguished foreigners who visited Jesus after his birth, bearing gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh. They are regular figures in traditional accounts of the nativity celebrations of Christmas and are an important part of Christian tradition.\n\nMatthew is the only of the four canonical gospels to mention the Magi. Matthew reports that they came \"from the east\" to worship the \"king of the Jews\". The gospel never mentions the number of Magi, but most western Christian denominations have traditionally assumed them to have been three in number, based on the statement that they brought three gifts. In Eastern Christianity, especially the Syriac churches, the Magi often number twelve. Their identification as kings in later Christian writings is probably linked to Psalm 72:11, \"May all kings fall down before him\".\n\nTraditional nativity scenes depict three \"Wise Men\" visiting the infant Jesus on the night of his birth, in a manger accompanied by the shepherds and angels, but this should be understood as an artistic convention allowing the two separate scenes of the Adoration of the Shepherds on the birth night and the later Adoration of the Magi to be combined for convenience. The single biblical account in Matthew simply presents an event at an unspecified point after Christ's birth in which an unnumbered party of unnamed \"wise men\" (\"μάγοι\") visits him in a house (\"οἰκίαν\"), not a stable, with only \"his mother\" mentioned as present. The New Revised Standard Version of – describes the visit of the Magi in this manner:\n\nThe text specifies no interval between the birth and the visit, and artistic depictions and the closeness of the traditional dates of December 25 and January 6 encourage the popular assumption that the visit took place the same winter as the birth, but later traditions varied, with the visit taken as occurring up to two winters later. This maximum interval explained Herod's command at that the Massacre of the Innocents included boys up to two years old. More recent commentators, not tied to the traditional feast days, may suggest a variety of intervals.\n\nThe wise men are mentioned twice shortly thereafter in , in reference to their avoidance of Herod after seeing Jesus, and what Herod had learned from their earlier meeting. The star which they followed has traditionally become known as the Star of Bethlehem.\n\nThe Magi are popularly referred to as \"wise men\" and \"kings\". The word \"magi\" is the plural of Latin \"magus\", borrowed from Greek μάγος \"magos\", as used in the original Greek text of the Gospel of Matthew (\"μάγοι\"). Greek \"magos\" itself is derived from Old Persian \"maguŝ\" from the Avestan \"magâunô\", i.e., the religious caste into which Zoroaster was born (see Yasna 33.7: \"ýâ sruyê parê magâunô\" = \"so I can be heard beyond Magi\"). The term refers to the Persian priestly caste of Zoroastrianism. As part of their religion, these priests paid particular attention to the stars and gained an international reputation for astrology, which was at that time highly regarded as a science. Their religious practices and use of astrology caused derivatives of the term \"Magi\" to be applied to the occult in general and led to the English term \"magic\", although Zoroastrianism was in fact strongly opposed to sorcery. The King James Version translates the term as \"wise men\"; the same translation is applied to the wise men led by Daniel of earlier Hebrew Scriptures (). The same word is given as \"sorcerer\" and \"sorcery\" when describing \"Elymas the sorcerer\" in , and Simon Magus, considered a heretic by the early Church, in . Several translations refer to the men outright as astrologers at Matthew Chapter 2, including New English Bible (1961); Phillips New Testament in Modern English (J.B.Phillips, 1972); Twentieth Century New Testament (1904 revised edition); Amplified Bible (1958-New Testament); An American Translation (1935, Goodspeed); and The Living Bible (K. Taylor, 1962-New Testament).\n\nAlthough the Magi are commonly referred to as \"kings,\" there is nothing in the account from the Gospel of Matthew that implies that they were rulers of any kind. The identification of the Magi as kings is linked to Old Testament prophecies that describe the Messiah being worshipped by kings in Isaiah 60:3, Psalm 68:29, and Psalm 72:10, which reads, \"Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations serve him.\" Early readers reinterpreted Matthew in light of these prophecies and elevated the Magi to kings. By AD 500 all commentators adopted the prevalent tradition that the three were kings. Later Christian interpretation stressed the Adorations of the Magi and shepherds as the first recognition by the people of the earth of Christ as the Redeemer, but the reformer John Calvin was vehemently opposed to referring to the Magi as kings. He once wrote: \"But the most ridiculous contrivance of the Papists on this subject is, that those men were kings... Beyond all doubt, they have been stupefied by a righteous judgment of God, that all might laugh at [their] gross ignorance.\"\n\nThe New Testament does not give the names of the Magi. However, traditions and legends identify a variety of different names for them. In the Western Christian church, they have been all regarded as saints and are commonly known as:\n\n\n\"Encyclopædia Britannica\" states: \"according to Western church tradition, Balthasar is often represented as a king of Arabia, Melchior as a king of Persia, and Gaspar as a king of India.\" These names apparently derive from a Greek manuscript probably composed in Alexandria around 500, and which has been translated into Latin with the title \"Excerpta Latina Barbari\". Another Greek document from the 8th century, of presumed Irish origin and translated into Latin with the title \"Collectanea et Flores\", continues the tradition of three kings and their names and gives additional details.\n\nOne candidate for the origin of the name Caspar appears in the Acts of Thomas as \"Gondophares\" (21 – c. AD 47), i.e., Gudapharasa (from which \"Caspar\" might derive as corruption of \"Gaspar\"). This Gondophares declared independence from the Arsacids to become the first Indo-Parthian king, and he was allegedly visited by Thomas the Apostle. According to Ernst Herzfeld, his name is perpetuated in the name of the Afghan city Kandahar, which he is said to have founded under the name Gundopharron.\n\nIn contrast, many Syrian Christians name the Magi \"Larvandad\", \"Gushnasaph\", and \"Hormisdas\". These names have a far greater likelihood of being originally Persian, though that does not guarantee their authenticity.\n\nIn the Eastern churches, Ethiopian Christianity, for instance, has \"Hor\", \"Karsudan\", and \"Basanater\", while the Armenian Catholics have \"Kagpha\", \"Badadakharida\" and \"Badadilma\".\nMany Chinese Christians believe that one of the magi came from China.\n\nThe phrase \"from the east\" (ἀπὸ ἀνατολῶν), more literally \"from the rising [of the sun]\", is the only information Matthew provides about the region from which they came. The Parthian Empire, centered in Persia, occupied virtually all of the land east of Judea and Syria (except for the deserts of Arabia to the southeast). Though the empire was tolerant of other religions, its dominant religion was Zoroastrianism, with its priestly magos class.\n\nAlthough Matthew's account does not explicitly cite the motivation for their journey (other than seeing the star in the east, which they took to be the star of the King of the Jews), the Syriac Infancy Gospel provides some clarity by stating explicitly in the third chapter that they were pursuing a prophecy from their prophet, Zoradascht (Zoroaster).\n\nThere is an Armenian tradition identifying the \"Magi of Bethlehem\" as Balthasar of Arabia, Melchior of Persia, and Gaspar of India. Historian John of Hildesheim relates a tradition in the ancient silk road city of Taxila (near Islamabad in Pakistan) that one of the Magi passed through the city on the way to Bethlehem.\n\nSebastian Brock, a historian of Christianity, has said: \"It was no doubt among converts from Zoroastrianism that… certain legends were developed around the Magi of the Gospels\". And Anders Hultgård concluded that the Gospel story of the Magi was influenced by an Iranian legend concerning magi and a star, which was connected with Persian beliefs in the rise of a star predicting the birth of a ruler and with myths describing the manifestation of a divine figure in fire and light.\n\nA model for the homage of the Magi might have been provided, it has been suggested, by the journey to Rome of King Tiridates I of Armenia, with his magi, to pay homage to the Emperor Nero, which took place in 66 AD, a few years before the date assigned to the composition of the Gospel of Matthew.\n\nThere was a tradition that the Central Asian Naimans and their Christian relatives, the Keraites, were descended from the biblical Magi. This heritage passed to the Mongol dynasty of Genghis Khan when Sorghaghtani, niece of the Keraite ruler Toghrul, married Tolui, the youngest son of Genghis, and became the mother of Möngke Khan and his younger brother and successor, Kublai Khan. Toghrul became identified with the legendary Central Asian Christian king, Prester John, whose Mongol descendants were sought as allies against the Muslims by contemporary European monarchs and popes. Sempad the Constable, elder brother of King Hetoum I of Cilician Armenia, visited the Mongol court in Karakorum in 1247–1250 and in 1254. He wrote a letter to Henry I King of Cyprus and Queen Stephanie (Sempad’s sister) from Samarkand in 1243, in which he said: “Tanchat [Tangut, or Western Xia], which is the land from whence came the Three Kings to Bethlehem to worship the Lord Jesus which was born. And know that the power of Christ has been, and is, so great, that the people of that land are Christians; and the whole land of Chata [Khitai, or Kara-Khitai] believes those Three Kings. I have myself been in their churches and have seen pictures of Jesus Christ and the Three Kings, one offering gold, the second frankincense, and the third myrrh. And it is through those Three Kings that they believe in Christ, and that the Chan and his people have now become Christians”. The legendary Christian ruler of Central Asia, Prester John was reportedly a descendant of one of the Magi.\n\nThe Magi are described as \"falling down\", \"kneeling\" or \"bowing\" in the worship of Jesus. This gesture, together with Luke's birth narrative, had an important effect on Christian religious practices. They were indicative of great respect, and typically used when venerating a king. While prostration is now rarely practised in the West it is still relatively common in the Eastern Churches, especially during Lent. Kneeling has remained an important element of Christian worship to this day.\n\nApart from their names, the three Magi developed distinct characteristics in Christian tradition, so that between them they represented the three ages of (adult) man, three geographical and cultural areas, and sometimes other things. In the normal Western account, reflected in art by the 14th century (for example in the Arena Chapel by Giotto in 1305) Caspar is old, normally with a white beard, and gives the gold; he is \"King of Tarsus, land of merchants\" on the Mediterranean coast of modern Turkey, and is first in line to kneel to Christ. Melchior is middle-aged, giving frankincense from his native Arabia, and Balthazar is a young man, very often and increasingly black-skinned, with myrrh from Saba (modern south Yemen). Their ages were often given as 60, 40 and 20 respectively, and their geographical origins were rather variable, with Balthazar increasingly coming from Ethiopia or other parts of Africa, and being represented accordingly. Balthazar's blackness has been the subject of considerable recent scholarly attention; in art it is found mostly in northern Europe, beginning from the 12th century, and becoming very common in the north by the 15th.\n\nThree gifts are explicitly identified in Matthew: gold, frankincense, and myrrh, in Koine Greek: \"chrysós\" (), \"líbanos\" () and \"smýrna\" (). Many different theories of the meaning and symbolism of the gifts have been brought forward. While gold is fairly obviously explained, frankincense, and particularly myrrh, are much more obscure. See the previous section for who gave which.\n\nThe theories generally break down into two groups:\n\nMyrrh was used as an embalming ointment and as a penitential incense in funerals and cremations until the 15th century. The \"holy oil\" traditionally used by the Eastern Orthodox Church for performing the sacraments of chrismation and unction is traditionally scented with myrrh, and receiving either of these sacraments is commonly referred to as \"receiving the myrrh\". The picture of the Magi on the 7th century Franks Casket shows the third visitor – he who brings myrrh – with a valknut over his back, a pagan symbol referring to Death.\n\nIt has been suggested by scholars that the \"gifts\" were medicinal rather than precious material for tribute.\n\nThe Syrian King Seleucus II Callinicus is recorded to have offered gold, frankincense and myrrh (among other items) to Apollo in his temple at Miletus in 243 BC, and this may have been the precedent for the mention of these three gifts in Gospel of Matthew (). It was these three gifts, it is thought, which were the chief cause for the number of the Magi becoming fixed eventually at three.\n\nThis episode can be linked to and to , which report gifts being given by kings, and this has played a central role in the perception of the Magi as kings, rather than as astronomer-priests. In a hymn of the late 4th-century hispanic poet Prudentius, the three gifts have already gained their medieval interpretation as prophetic emblems of Jesus' identity, familiar in the carol \"We Three Kings\" by John Henry Hopkins, Jr., 1857.\n\nJohn Chrysostom suggested that the gifts were fit to be given not just to a king but to God, and contrasted them with the Jews' traditional offerings of sheep and calves, and accordingly Chrysostom asserts that the Magi worshiped Jesus as God.\n\nWhat subsequently happened to these gifts is never mentioned in the scripture, but several traditions have developed. One story has the gold being stolen by the two thieves who were later crucified alongside Jesus. Another tale has it being entrusted to and then misappropriated by Judas. One tradition suggests that Joseph and Mary used the gold to finance their travels when they fled Bethlehem after an angel had warned, in a dream, about King Herod's plan to kill Jesus. And another story proposes the theory that the myrrh given to them at Jesus' birth was used to anoint Jesus' body after his crucifixion.\n\nThere was a 15th-century golden case purportedly containing the Gift of the Magi housed in the Monastery of St. Paul of Mount Athos. It was donated to the monastery in the 15th century by Mara Branković, daughter of the King of Serbia Đurađ Branković, wife to the Ottoman Sultan Murat II and godmother to Mehmet II the Conqueror (of Constantinople). After the Athens earthquake of September 9, 1999 they were temporarily displayed in Athens in order to strengthen faith and raise money for earthquake victims. The relics were displayed in Ukraine and Belarus in Christmas of 2014, and thus left Greece for the first time since the 15th century.\n\nChristian Scriptures record nothing about the biblical Magi after reporting their going back to their own country (Matthew 2:12 uses the feminine singular noun, χώραν, noting one country, territory or region of origin). Two separate traditions have surfaced claiming that they were so moved by their encounter with Jesus that they either became Christians on their own or were quick to convert fully upon later encountering an Apostle of Jesus. The traditions claim that they were so strong in their beliefs that they willingly embraced martyrdom.\n\nOne tradition gained popularity in Spain during the 17th century; it was found in a work called the Chronicon of Dexter. The work was ascribed to Flavius Lucius Dexter the bishop of Barcelona, under Theodosius the Great. The tradition appears in the form of a simple martyrology reading, \"In Arabia Felix, in the city of Sessania of the Adrumeti, the martyrdom of the holy kings, the three Magi, Gaspar, Balthassar, and Melchior who adored Christ.\" First appearing in 1610, the Chronicon of Dexter was immensely popular along with the traditions it contained throughout the 17th century. Later, this was all brought into question when historians and the Catholic hierarchy in Rome declared the work a pious forgery.\n\nA competing tradition asserts that the biblical Magi \"were martyred for the faith, and that their bodies were first venerated at Constantinople; thence they were transferred to Milan in 344. It is certain that when Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor (Barbarossa) , the relics there were transferred to Cologne Cathedral, housed in the Shrine of the Three Kings, and are venerated there today.\" The Milanese treated the fragments of masonry from their now-empty tomb as secondary relics and these were widely distributed around the region, including southern France, accounting for the frequency with which the Magi appear on chasse reliquaries in Limoges enamel.\n\nThere are several traditions on where the remains of the Magi are located, although none of the traditions is considered as an established fact or even as particularly likely by secular history. Marco Polo claimed that he was shown the three tombs of the Magi at Saveh south of Tehran in the 1270s:\n\nPaul William Roberts provides some modern-day corroboration of this possibility in his book \"Journey of the Magi\".\n\nA Shrine of the Three Kings at Cologne Cathedral, according to tradition, contains the bones of the Three Wise Men. Reputedly they were first discovered by Saint Helena on her famous pilgrimage to Palestine and the Holy Lands. She took the remains to the church of Hagia Sophia in Constantinople; they were later moved to Milan (some sources say by the city's bishop, Eustorgius I), before being sent to their current resting place by the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick I in 1164. The Milanese celebrate their part in the tradition by holding a medieval costume parade every 6 January.\n\nA version of the detailed elaboration familiar to us is laid out by the 14th century cleric John of Hildesheim's \"Historia Trium Regum\" (\"History of the Three Kings\"). In accounting for the presence in Cologne of their mummified relics, he begins with the journey of Helena, mother of Constantine I to Jerusalem, where she recovered the True Cross and other relics:\n\nQueen Helen… began to think greatly of the bodies of these three kings, and she arrayed herself, and accompanied by many attendants, went into the Land of Ind… after she had found the bodies of Melchior, Balthazar, and Gaspar, Queen Helen put them into one chest and ornamented it with great riches, and she brought them into Constantinople... and laid them in a church that is called Saint Sophia.\n\nThe visit of the Magi is commemorated in most Western Christian churches by the observance of Epiphany, 6 January, which also serves as the feast of the three as saints. The Eastern Orthodox celebrate the visit of the Magi on 25 December.\n\nQur'an omits Matthew's episode of the Magi. However, the Persian Muslim encyclopaedist al-Tabari, writing in the 9th century, gives the familiar symbolism of the gifts of the Magi. Al-Tabari gave his source for the information to be the later 7th century Perso-Yemenite writer Wahb ibn Munabbih.\n\nHolidays celebrating the arrival of the Magi traditionally recognise a distinction between the date of their arrival and the date of Jesus' birth. The account given in the Gospel of Matthew does not state that they were present on the night of the birth; in the Gospel of Luke, Joseph and Mary remain in Bethlehem until it is time for Jesus' dedication, in Jerusalem, and then return to their home in Nazareth.\n\nWestern Christianity celebrates the Magi on the day of Epiphany, January 6, the day immediately following the \"twelve days of Christmas\", particularly in the Spanish-speaking parts of the world. In these areas, the Three Kings (\"\"los Reyes Magos de Oriente\", and \"Los Tres Reyes Magos\" or simply \"Los Reyes Magos\") receive letters from children and so bring them gifts on the night before Epiphany. In Spain, each one of the Magi is supposed to represent one different continent, Europe (Melchior), Asia (Caspar) and Africa (Balthasar). According to the tradition, the Magi come from the Orient on their camels to visit the houses of all the children, much like \"Sinterklaas\" and Santa Claus with his reindeer elsewhere, they visit everyone in one night. In some areas, children prepare a drink for each of the Magi. It is also traditional to prepare food and drink for the camels, because this is the only night of the year when they eat.\n\nIn Spain, Argentina, Mexico, Paraguay and Uruguay, there is a long tradition for having the children receive presents by the three \"Reyes Magos\"\" on the night of January 5 (Epiphany Eve) or morning of January 6. Almost every Spanish city or town organises \"cabalgatas\" in the evening, in which the \"kings\" and their \"servants\" parade and throw sweets to the children (and parents) in attendance. The \"cavalcade of the three kings\" in Alcoy claims to be the oldest in the world, having started in 1886. The Mystery Play of the Three Magic Kings is also presented on Epiphany Eve. There is also a \"Roscón\" (Spain) or \"Rosca de Reyes\" (Mexico) as explained below.\n\nIn the Philippines, beliefs concerning the Three Kings (Filipino: \"Tatlóng Haring Mago\", lit. \"Three Magi Kings\"; shortened to \"Tatlóng Harì\" or Spanish \"Tres Reyes\") follows Hispanic influence, with the Feast of the Epiphany considered by many Filipinos as the traditional end of their Christmas season. The tradition of the Three Kings' \"cabalgada\" is today done only in some areas, such as the old city of Intramuros in Manila, and the island of Marinduque. Another dying custom is children leaving shoes out on Epiphany Eve, so that they may receive sweets and money from the Three Kings. With the arrival of American culture in the early 20th century, the Three Kings as gift-givers have been largely replaced in urban areas by Santa Claus, and they only survive in the greeting \"Happy Three Kings!\" and the surname \"Tatlóngharì\". The Three Kings are especially revered in Gapan, Nueva Ecija, where they are enshrined as patron saints in the National Shrine of Virgen La Divina Pastora.\n\nIn Paraguay, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic, children cut grass or greenery on January 5 and put it in a box under their bed for the Kings' camels. Children receive gifts on January 6, which is called \"Día de Reyes\", and is traditionally the day in which the Magi arrived bearing gifts for the Christ child. Christmas starts in December and ends in January after Epiphany, although in Puerto Rico there are eight more days of celebration (\"las octavitas\").\n\nIn 2009 a campaign started in Spain over the fact that Balthazar is commonly played by a white person in blackface.\n\nA tradition in Poland and German-speaking Catholic areas is the writing of the three kings' initials (\"C+M+B\" or \"C M B\", or \"K+M+B\" in those areas where Caspar is spelled Kaspar) above the main door of Catholic homes in chalk. This is a new year's blessing for the occupants and the initials also are believed to also stand for \"Christus mansionem benedicat\" (\"May/Let Christ Bless This House\"). Depending on the city or town, this will be happen sometime between Christmas and the Epiphany, with most municipalities celebrating closer to the Epiphany. Also in Catholic parts of the German-speaking world, these markings are made by the \"Sternsinger\" (literally, \"star singers\") – a group of children dressed up as the magi. The \"Sternsinger\" carry a star representing the one followed by the biblical magi and sing Christmas carols as they go door to door, such as \"Stern über Bethlehem\". An adult chaperones the group but stays in the background of the performance. After singing, the children write the three kings' initials on the door frame in exchange for charitable donations. Each year, German and Austrian dioceses pick one charity towards which all \"Sternsinger\" donations nationwide will be contributed. Traditionally, one child in the \"Sternsinger\" group is said to represent Baltasar from Africa and so, that child typically wears blackface makeup. Many Germans do not consider this to be racist because it is not intended to be a negative portrayal of a black person, but rather, a \"realistic\" or \"traditional\" portrayal of one. The dialogue surrounding the politics of traditions involving blackface is not as developed as in Spain or the Netherlands. In the past, photographs of German politicians together with children in blackface have caused a stir in English-language press. Moreover, Afro-Germans have written that this use of blackface is a missed opportunity to be truly inclusive of Afro-Germans in German-speaking communities and contribute to the equation of \"blackness\" with \"foreignness\" and \"otherness\" in German culture.\n\nIn 2010 the day of Epiphany, January 6, was made a holiday in Poland and thus a pre-war tradition was revived. Since 2011, celebrations with biblical costuming have taken place throughout the country. For example, in Warsaw there are processions from Plac Zamkowy down Krakowskie Przedmieście to Plac Piłsudskiego.\n\nIn Spain and in Portugal (where it is called Bolo-rei), the cake, which is ring-shaped, is most commonly bought, not baked, and it contains both a small figurine of one of the Magi (or another surprise depending on the region) and an actual dry broad bean. The one who gets the figurine is \"crowned\" (with a crown made of cardboard or paper), but whoever gets the bean has to pay the value of the cake to the person who originally bought it. In Mexico they also have the same ring-shaped cake \"Rosca de Reyes\" (Kings Bagel or Thread) with figurines inside it. Whoever gets a figurine is supposed to organize and be the host of the family celebration for the \"Candelaria\" feast on February 2.\n\nIn France and Belgium, a cake containing a small figure of the baby Jesus, known as the \"broad bean\", is shared within the family. Whoever gets the bean is crowned king for the remainder of the holiday and wears a cardboard crown purchased with the cake. A similar practice is common in many areas of Switzerland, but the figurine is a miniature king. The practice is known as \"tirer les Rois\" (Drawing the Kings). A queen is sometimes also chosen.\n\nIn New Orleans, Louisiana, parts of southern Texas, and surrounding regions, a similar ring-shaped cake known as a \"King Cake\" traditionally becomes available in bakeries from Epiphany to Mardi Gras. The baby Jesus figurine is inserted into the cake from underneath, and the person who gets the slice with the figurine is expected to buy or bake the next King Cake. There is wide variation among the types of pastry that may be called a King Cake, but most are a baked cinnamon-flavoured twisted dough with thin frosting and additional sugar on top in the traditional Mardi Gras colours of gold, green and purple. To prevent accidental injury or choking, the baby Jesus figurine is frequently not inserted into the cake at the bakery, but included in the packaging for optional use by the buyer to insert it themselves. Mardi Gras-style beads and doubloons may be included as well.\n\nThe Magi most frequently appear in European art in the \"Adoration of the Magi\"; less often in the \"Journey of the Magi\" has been a popular subject in art, and \"topos\", and other scenes such as the \"Magi before Herod\" and the \"Dream of the Magi\" also appear in the Middle Ages. In Byzantine art they are depicted as Persians, wearing trousers and phrygian caps. Crowns appear from the 10th century. Despite being saints, they are very often shown without halos, perhaps to avoid distracting attention from either their crowns or the halos of the Holy Family. Sometimes only the lead king, kneeling to Christ, has a halo the two others lack, probably indicating that the two behind had not yet performed the act of worship that would ensure their status as saints. Medieval artists also allegorised the theme to represent the three ages of man. Beginning in the 12th century, and very often by the 15th, the Kings also represent the three parts of the known (pre-Columbian) world in Western art, especially in Northern Europe. Balthasar is thus represented as a young African or Moor and Caspar may be depicted with distinctly Oriental features.\n\nAn early Anglo-Saxon depiction survives on the Franks Casket (early 7th century, whalebone carving), the only Christian scene, which is combined with pagan and classical imagery. In its composition it follows the oriental style, which renders a courtly scene, with the Virgin and Christ facing the spectator, while the Magi devoutly approach from the (left) side. Even amongst non-Christians who had heard of the Christian story of the Magi, the motif was quite popular, since the Magi had endured a long journey and were generous. Instead of an angel, the picture places a swan-like bird, perhaps interpretable as the hero's fylgja (a protecting spirit, and shapeshifter).\n\nAustrian artist Gottfried Helnwein depicted a more controversial tableau in his painting, \"\" (1996). Intended to represent the \"many connections between the Third Reich and the Christian churches in Austria and Germany\", Nazi officers in uniform stand around an Aryan Madonna. The Christ toddler who stands on Mary's lap resembles Adolf Hitler.\n\nMore generally they appear in popular Nativity scenes and other Christmas decorations that have their origins in the Neapolitan variety of the Italian \"presepio\" or Nativity crèche.\n\n\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "38934234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38934234", "title": "Breton Canadians", "text": "Breton Canadians\n\nBreton Canadians are Canadian citizens of Breton descent or a Brittany-born person who resides in Canada.\n\nAccording to the 2016 Census, 11,845 Canadians claimed that they had full or partial Breton ancestry. However, the \"Amicale des Parents d'Émigrés d'Amérique du Nord\" (Association of Relatives of Emigrants to North America), an organisation headquartered in Gourin, Brittany, has estimated that around 45,000 Bretons immigrated to Canada between the years of 1870 and 1980 and that 8,000 Breton Canadians live or work in the Montreal area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51635456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51635456", "title": "Celebrity comics", "text": "Celebrity comics\n\nCelebrity comics are comics based on the fame and popularity of a celebrity. They are a byproduct of merchandising around a certain media star or franchise and have existed since the mass media and comics came into existence in the 19th century. Celebrity comics are usually not held in high esteem by critics, because of their purely commercial nature. They are solely created to capitalize on media trends and therefore published so quickly and cheaply that drawings and narratives tend to be of very low quality.\n\nCelebrity comics are usually written and drawn for commercial purposes. Publishers try to cash in on the fame of a well known radio, TV, film star or series by launching a comic book or an entire comic book series about these media stars. Comics about sports champions or theatrical actors fall in the same category. The line of thought behind these works is that the audience will be more likely to buy something they already recognize from theatre, film, radio or TV than a brand new series about an original creation.\n\nDespite the commercial potential few of these celebrity comics last long. Their sales are usually based on the amount of attention a certain celebrity receives during a certain period. If the media craze or fad dies down the comic version usually fizzles out as well. Another reason why many of these comics fail in the long run has to do with the fact that companies usually pass both the writing and drawing to less skilled artists, many of which don't have much experience in their profession. Apart from that the artists in question are put under pressure of a TV channel, company or the media star himself to follow their own demands and expectations as much as possible.\n\nCelebrity comics should not be confused with satirical comics or political comics, which lampoon celebrities. While these can sometimes be made to play-off the fame of a celebrity, they usually tend to be less respectful towards the media stars in question and are seldom made with their own participation.\n\nDespite the fact that celebrity comics are considered pure pulp some people have interest in these titles as a mere nostalgic or historical curiosity, of which they enjoy the campiness.\n\nCelebrity comics have existed since the late 19th century. The earliest example was the magazine \"Dan Leno's Comic Journal\" (1898), based on the popularity of British music hall comedian Dan Leno. The paper was primarily aimed at young adults and featured a fictional version of Leno. He personally wrote most of the gags and stories, while Tom Browne contributed many of the illustrations. The comedian retained editorial control of the paper, deciding which items to omit. After a run of nearly two years the novelty wore off, and Leno lost interest. The paper shut down on December 2, 1899. Another early example was a comic strip drawn between 1909 and 1913 about the local village eccentric Robert W. Patten by John Hager, which was published in the Seattle Daily Times. When Hollywood started making slapstick films many comics series were made about popular film comedians. E.C. Segar's \"Charlie Chaplin's Comedy Capers\" is perhaps the most famous example and ran for a solid two years, between 1916 and 1918. Between the 1920s and early 1960s the British magazines \"Radio Fun\" and \"Film Fun\" were even completely based around comics about radio and film celebrities. In the mid 1930s American artists like Alfred Buescher , Clifton H. Crittenden , Roland Jack Scott, and Arthur J. Palmer also made text comics based on the lives of celebrities who made headlines at the time. When television became popular in the 1950s and 1960s it opened the door for a whole stream of comics based on popular TV shows and stars. In every country with a comics industry examples of celebrity comics can be found.\n\nA subgenre is celebrity animated cartoon series, based on the popularity of a well known musical artist (\"Hammerman\"), band (\"The Beatles, The Jackson 5ive, The Osmonds, New Kids on the Block\"), film stars (\"The Abbott and Costello Cartoon Show, Jackie Chan Adventures, Amigo and Friends, Laurel and Hardy, Mary-Kate and Ashley in Action, , The New Three Stooges\"...), TV star (\"The Gary Coleman Show, Partridge Family 2200 A.D., Mr. T, Laverne & Shirley in the Army, The Fonz and the Happy Days Gang\") and/or sports champion (\"Harlem Globetrotters, , Mike Tyson Mysteries, Ronaldinho Gaucho's Team\"...).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1488037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1488037", "title": "Celebrity gardener", "text": "Celebrity gardener\n\nGardeners who have achieved fame through their pioneering innovations, writing or, more often, their television personas, may be classed as celebrity gardeners.\n\nThe writing of Helena Rutherfurd Ely, C. Z. Guest and Esther Deans brought them enough fame for them to be considered celebrity gardeners.\n\nIn England, the Royal Horticultural Society has described both Alan Titchmarsh and Monty Don as celebrity gardeners.\n\nMark Viette\n"}
{"id": "54655885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54655885", "title": "Claire Wineland", "text": "Claire Wineland\n\nClaire Lucia Wineland (April 10, 1997 – September 2, 2018) was an American activist and author. Through her non-profit organization \"Claire's Place Foundation\", she worked to support and organize people with terminal and chronic illness and their families.\n\nWineland wrote the book \"Every Breath I Take, Surviving and Thriving with Cystic Fibrosis\" and was a TEDx speaker.\n\nWineland was born with cystic fibrosis in Austin, Texas. She enjoyed performing from a young age and appeared in \"The Music Man\" at age 4. At age 13, her lungs failed, and she was placed in a medically-induced coma. She was given a 1% chance of survival and awoke after 16 days. She then founded an organization in support of families affected by terminal illness, specifically cystic fibrosis. \n\nWineland founded the Claire's Place Foundation at age 13. Inspired by the community's support while she was in a coma, she launched the 501(c)(3) non-profit to provide support to children with cystic fibrosis and their affected families. The foundation operates through two programs: Support Families, which offers personalized support and assistance in areas such as treatment, care processes and emotional support from other parent volunteers; and Extended Hospital Stay Grants which provide financial assistance to families who are struggling with extended hospital stays. Claire's Place Foundation has provided financial assistance to 26 families to date.\n\nWineland was chosen to be the keynote speaker at AARC Congress, the 63rd International Respiratory Convention and Exhibition. She was a TEDx speaker and has spoken at a number of conferences worldwide. Claire appeared in an episode of \"Red Band Society\" and in the documentary series \"My Last Days\". She joined the Philips \"Breathless Choir\" as a soloist.\n\nThe Clairity Project is a website featuring a series of educational videos and vlogs hosted on YouTube, which hope to inspire and educate others about living with a terminal illness. According to the website, Wineland's activism aims \"to shed some light on what it's really like to be sick, and change the way we view illness and those living with it\".\n\nOn August 7, 2017, after not uploading any videos onto her YouTube channel for over a year, Wineland made a return to YouTube with a new account under her real name. Her first uploaded video titled, \"I stopped doing the Clarity Project because I got screwed over\", revealed that The Clairity Project was not operated by her, but by a video editing company, and she had little to no control or input over the editing of her videos apart from its filming and creation. She revealed that after taking a break from creating videos for some months due to declining health, the company refused to allow her to log into any accounts relating to The Clarity Project. Due to no formal contracts over ownership of the project being in place, the company continued to profit from The Clairity Project, which essentially had her namesake, without Wineland ever having any control or seeing any profits. However, Wineland stated she does not have the energy or the money to take the case to court. Wineland continued to operate her very own YouTube channel where she uploaded personal vlogs regarding her personal feelings and thoughts, cystic fibrosis, her life expectancy and a lung transplant. She uploaded nine videos prior to her death.\n\nOn August 26, 2018, Wineland had a stroke due to a blood clot which \"cut off blood flow to the right side of her brain.\" She died, aged 21, on September 2, 2018, at 6:21 PM, at the UC San Diego Thornton Pavilion, one week after a double-lung transplant. Her organs were donated to those in need.\n\nIn 2016, Wineland was listed as one of \"Seventeen\" magazine's 17 Power Teens. She was a Fox Teen Choice Award Honoree in 2015 and received the Gloria Barron Prize for Young Heroes and \"Los Angeles Business Journal\" Small Nonprofit of the Year Award in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "42003892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42003892", "title": "Damen Bell-Holter", "text": "Damen Bell-Holter\n\nDamen Bell-Holter (born April 13, 1990) from Hydaburg, Alaska is an American professional basketball player who currently plays for Fortitudo Agrigento of the serie A2. An Alaska Native and member of the state's Haida peoples, he played college basketball at Oral Roberts University.\n\nBell-Holter went undrafted in the 2013 NBA draft. On August 7, 2013, he signed with Telekom Baskets Bonn of Germany for the 2013–14 season. However, he was later released by Bonn on August 28, 2013.\n\nOn September 30, 2013, he signed with the Boston Celtics. However, he was later waived by the Celtics on October 26, 2013. On October 31, 2013, he was acquired by the Maine Red Claws as an affiliate player.\n\nOn July 29, 2014, he signed with BC Körmend of Hungary for the 2014–15 season. He later left before appearing in a game for them. On October 9, 2014, he signed with Pertevniyal İstanbul of the Turkish Basketball Second League.\n\nOn July 21, 2016, Bell-Holter signed with the Italian team Fortitudo Agrigento.\n\n"}
{"id": "33211106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33211106", "title": "Duberty Aráoz", "text": "Duberty Aráoz\n\nDuberty Aráoz (born 21 December 1920) is a Bolivian football midfielder who played for Bolivia in the 1950 FIFA World Cup. He also played for Club Litoral.\n\n"}
{"id": "39919238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39919238", "title": "Elshad Abdullayev", "text": "Elshad Abdullayev\n\nElshad Islam oglu Abdullayev (; born 25 September 1961, Kurdamir) is an Azerbaijani lawyer and former university rector who gained wide popularity in 2012 after producing and publishing hidden camera videos, raising public and international awareness of corruption in the Azerbaijani government. The controversy that arose as a result came to be known as the Gulargate scandal, after former MP Gular Ahmadova of the ruling New Azerbaijan Party, who featured in the first video.\n\nAbdullayev was born in the town of Kurdamir in central Azerbaijan where he received secondary education. In 1979, he graduated with an honors degree in law from the Baku State University. He received a master's and later a doctorate degree in law in Moscow in 1985 and 2000 respectively. He was the dean of the constitution law department of the Baku State University since 1995 and a professor since 2004. He is married and has three children.\n\nAbdullayev joined the New Azerbaijan Party and unsuccessfully ran as a candidate in the parliamentary election of 2005. Notably, his constituency of Binagadi II was among the five in which the voting results (according to which Abdullayev won) became void and new voting was scheduled for 2006. However, a polling station official reported violations during the campaign, namely that Elshad Abdullayev had reportedly been bribing the electorate to gain votes. A criminal case ensued and the court was presented evidence, following which Abdullayev's candidacy was annulled.\n\nIn 2012, Abdullayev claimed that he believed he had in fact won the election, but that \"certain powers\" did not wish to see him in the parliament, as that would enable Abdullayev to expose the actions of a \"criminal gang of kidnappers\" who, he alleged, were responsible for the kidnapping of his older brother, Ministry of State Security officer Mahir Abdullayev, back in 2003 and poisoning of his younger brother Eldaniz Abdullayev who undertook a personal investigation of the kidnapping.\n\nIn 1997, Abdullayev founded the Azerbaijan International University, a registered private institution for post-secondary education in Baku, Azerbaijan. In 2006, the Attorney General's Office announced it had received reports of corruption taking place in the institution, including proof of bribe-based student admission while passing over the official state admission examination. As a result of a four-year-long investigation, the university was stripped of its license on the orders of Minister of Education Misir Mardanov on 30 August 2010. Elshad Abdullayev disagreed with the Ministry's decision, claiming that his had received a four-year license in 2007 and that it could not have been simply revoked, but only expire.\n\nIn 2010, former employees of the university were charged with illegal organ transplanting at the medical centre affiliated with the Azerbaijan International University. Abdullayev sought political asylum in France soon afterwards.\n\nIn September 2012, Abdullayev accused government officials of Azerbaijan of having forced him to pay a 2,000,000-dollar bribe back in 2005 in return for finding his brother and obtaining a seat in the National Assembly. Neither even happened, according to Abdullayev, and the money was not returned to him. Abdullayev specifically accused the head of the Presidential Administration of Azerbaijan Ramiz Mehdiyev and claimed that Member of Parliament Gular Ahmadova helped broker the deal. After Ahmadova's denial, Abdullayev published a video on YouTube where he is seen discussing the bribe sum to be paid to Gular Ahmadova to be taken to higher authorities in return for a seat in the National Assembly and finding his kidnapped brother. Abdullayev warned of being in possession of more videos, where names of President Ilham Aliyev and Minister of Emergency Situations Kamaladdin Heydarov are also mentioned. He also expressed concerns that instead of trying Ahmadova for extortion, Attorney General Zakir Garalov chose to persecute Abdullayev's family members in Azerbaijan in retaliation. He added that none of this would have been published, had the authorities established a neutral investigation commission. Abdullayev released other videos in the course of the next few months, widening the controversy. He admitted that with these videos, he specifically targeted Ramiz Mehdiyev who had allegedly established \"death squadrons\" in 1994 that have been behind a number of controversial assassinations.\n"}
{"id": "7621982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7621982", "title": "Gene Porter Bridwell", "text": "Gene Porter Bridwell\n\nGene Porter Bridwell was the seventh director of the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center located in Huntsville, Alabama. He served as director from January 6, 1994 to February 3, 1996.\n\nBefore becoming director of the Marshall Center, G.P. (Porter) Bridwell served as manager of the Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle Definition Office, where he supervised efforts involving the proposed vehicle's design, development, and integration. He also served on special assignment with the Space Station Redesign Team and later the U.S./Russian Space Station Integration Team. Previously, he served as manager of the Shuttle Projects Office. There he managed the Shuttle's propulsion elements, including the Space Shuttle Main Engine, External Tank, Redesigned Solid Rocket Motor, Solid Rocket Booster, Advanced Solid Rocket Motor, and related systems and activities, including the Michoud Assembly Facility.\n\nBridwell was born in Linton, Indiana, on October 4, 1935 and graduated from State High School in Terre Haute, Indiana, in 1953. He earned a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering in 1958 from Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana. He began his professional career as an engineer with Rocketdyne in Canoga Park, California. He joined the Marshall Center in 1962, and his early experience included assignments within the former Saturn Systems Office and Saturn V Program Office. In 1975, he transferred to the Shuttle Projects Office and served in key positions including chief of the Project Engineering Office, and deputy manager of the External Tank Project. In February 1983, he was appointed manager of the External Tank Project.\n\nIn the spring of 1987, he served temporarily as acting deputy center director of National Space Technology Laboratories in Mississippi. He was appointed director of institutional and program support at the Marshall Center in October 1988, and assumed the position of manager, Shuttle Projects Office, in May 1989.\n\nIn January 1990, Bridwell became the director of National Launch Systems for NASA Headquarters, co-located at the Marshall Center. In February 1992, he was officially transferred back to the Marshall Center from headquarters, where he assumed his post as manager of the Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle Definition Office.\n\n"}
{"id": "52157441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52157441", "title": "Govy", "text": "Govy\n\ngovy (born 12 April 1981) is a French artist diagnosed on the Autism Spectrum in 2013, and is an advocate for the Neurodiversity Movement. She is the recipient of three A' Design Awards and two Videoformes Awards.\n\nHer work has been exhibited internationally at the Zendai MoMA of Shanghai, Triennale Design Museum of Milan, WIELS Contemporary Art Center of Brussels, Casoria Contemporary Art Museum of Naples, Rosario Museum of Contemporary Art of Santa Fe (Argentina) and Nuit Blanche of Paris. Her first design piece, the \"Yozakura sake set\" can be found at the MoMA design store in NYC and Tokyo.\n\nGovy is best known for her interactive art piece \"Photographic Diary\" (2000 – 2001) in which she took series of photographs every day during a year and the series of Shibari installations \"Serial Bondage\" (2006 – 2013) which incorporates her peculiar fascination with Japanese rituals and aesthetics.\n\nSince 2015, govy has been focusing more on science and space art projects. She is mostly working on the concept of spacetime (or the 4th dimension) and a \"specific individual human life in the bigger picture of the universe\" with the \"SpaceTime Coordinates\" projects, which use data from NASA JPL to generate personalised art pieces.\n\nFrom 2001 until 2008, she has been using the artist name \"Jimmy Owenns\" with the tagline \"Artist Without a Sexual Identity\". During this period she created the \"Photographic Diary\" an award winning interactive work that has been featured in the book \"Taschen’s 1000 Favorite Websites\" A work on the notions about the splitting of the perception, narration or psyche and the search for identity.\n\nIn 2008, she adopted her second artist name \"Kennedy James\" and moved to NYC with an artist visa.\n\nSince 2015, she goes as \"govy\", her rare French family name.\n\nBefore debuting her visual work with photography, govy performed in a few theater, video pieces and films but then decided to focus on writing. In 1999, she published the first book on the internet that actually looked like a real book, which would be published in 2001 under the title \"Mes Cendres Nues\" by French publisher IDLivre. Her early wiritng is also part of the French Poetry Anthology \"Les Nouveaux Poètes Français et Francophones\", published by Edition Huguet in 2004.\n\nIn 2000 she started an interactive piece where she would photograph her daily life during one year without interruption. This early piece launched her career as a visual artist as it was one of the first interactive pieces on the internet at the time and created before the fashion of photographic diaries via blogs would start spreading worldwide in 2004. In retrospect, it could be considered an art piece very much about growing up on the Autism Spectrum and struggling with a personal quest of identity. This work has received two awards and has been exhibited internationally in art galleries and museums.\n\nIn 2011, her face launched the storytelling website Cowbird, with the first story published \"1000 Words\" written by Scott Thrift.\n\nThe City and Horses pop band wrote a song about their relationship in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "30098767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30098767", "title": "Hörður Barðdal", "text": "Hörður Barðdal\n\nHörður Barðdal (Hordur Barddal) (22 May 1946 in Reykjavík – 4 August 2009) was a competitive water polo player, competitive swimmer, competitive skier, competitive golfer, and a disabled athlete activist. His parents were Óli S. Barðdal, director of Seglagerðin Ægir, and Sesselja Guðnadóttir Barðdal. Óli died in 1983 but Sesselja outlives her son.\n\nAt the age of nine, Hörður contracted polio, yet he never let his paralysis stop him at either work or play. His athletic achievements and his pioneering work within the sports arena speak of diligence, fighting spirit and positivity that inspired others in the same position with courage and eagerness to stand at an equal footing with able people.\n\nDuring the years 1965–1970, Hörður played water polo with able athletes with Reykjavík F.C (KR) and he won the Reykjavík and Icelandic Championships several times in that area of sports. He was also a coach at the Reykjavík F.C. for a while, where he trained both able and disabled people in swimming. He was one of the first competitive athletes in the Reykjavík’s Sport Union for the Disabled (ÍFR) and he competed among other places at the Nordic Championships for the Disabled in 1976 and 1977 in swimming, where he won a bronze and silver medal. He was awarded the first Disabled Athlete of the Year in 1977, and he concluded his swimming career at the 1980 Summer Paralympics in Arnhem, Netherlands.\n\nHörður was one of the founders of the Icelandic Sports Associations for the Disabled (ÍF) and was a member of the board of the Association until 1986. Hörður was often a team mangager at large sport events, for instance at the 1994 Winter Paralympics in Lillehammer; he was an integral player in the launch of winter sports for the disabled in Iceland. He received the gold award from the Icelandic Sports Association for the Disabled in the year 1994 for his efforts to promote sports among the disabled.\n\nDuring the last years, it was golf that totally captured Hörður’s heart, and he carried out groundbreaking work in enhancing disabled people’s appreciation of the sport. He founded the Icelandic Disabled Golf Association (GSFÍ), in collaboration with the Icelandic Golf Association (GSÍ), and was the president of the board until his untimely death in 2009. He was also a board member of the European Disabled Golf Association (EDGA), who decided, in the fall 2010, to commission a trophy in his memory, \"The Hordur Barddal Trophy\", which has been awarded since in both male and female categories.\n\nHörður married Bergþóra Sigurbjörnsdóttir in the year 1968 but their ways parted. They had three daughters together: Jóhanna Ingileif, Sesselja Engilráð and Bergþóra Fanney Barðdal. He then married Soffía Kristín Hjartardóttir in the year 1980. Soffía died in 2007. Hörður’s stepson from his marriage with Soffía is Þórður Vilberg Oddsson. The grandchildren are nine in total.\n\nThe Hörður Barðdal’s Memorial Fund for Disabled Golfers was founded in the summer 2011 by Hörður’s mother, his three daughters, Kristmann Magnússon, director of Pfaff in Iceland, the Icelandic Sports Association for the Disabled, and the Icelandic Golf Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "169505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169505", "title": "James Barry (surgeon)", "text": "James Barry (surgeon)\n\nDr. James Miranda Steuart Barry (c. 1795 – 25 July 1865) was a military surgeon in the British Army, born in Ireland. Barry obtained a medical degree from the University of Edinburgh Medical School, then served first in Cape Town, South Africa and subsequently in many parts of the British Empire. Before retirement, Barry had risen to the rank of Inspector General (equivalent to Brigadier General) in charge of military hospitals, the second highest medical office in the British Army. Barry not only improved conditions for wounded soldiers, but also the conditions of the native inhabitants, and performed the first caesarean section in Africa by an Irish surgeon in which both the mother and child survived the operation.\nAlthough Barry's entire adult life was lived as a man, Barry was born Margaret Ann Bulkley and was known as female in childhood. Barry lived as a man in both public and private life, at least in part in order to be accepted as a university student and pursue a career as a surgeon, Barry’s birth sex only becoming known to the public and to military colleagues after death.\n\nOther than some personal correspondence, there are few sources of information about the non-military parts of Barry's life. The scant available evidence provides a skeleton onto which a great deal of myth and speculation has been added by various commentators. In his detailed research into Barry's early life, Michael Du Preez states that Barry was born in Cork in 1789, a birth date based on Mrs Bulkley's description of her child being fifteen years old in a letter dated 14 January 1805. Various other sources give birth dates of 1792, 1795, and 1799, but these incorrect dates are almost certainly the result of Barry later lying about age on official documents to aid passing as a man.\n\nBarry was the second child born to Jeremiah and Mary-Ann Bulkley, and was given the name Margaret Anne. Mary-Ann Bulkley was the sister of James Barry, a celebrated Irish artist and professor of painting at London's Royal Academy. Jeremiah Bulkley ran the weigh house on Merchant's Quay, Cork. However, anti-Catholic sentiment led to his dismissal from this post. This and subsequent financial mismanagement left Mary-Ann and Barry without the support of either Jeremiah Bulkley (whose debts led to him spending time in the Marshalsea prison in Dublin) or later the Bulkleys' married son John. A third child appeared in the Bulkley family and was named Juliana. Although presented as being Barry's sister, it is likely that she was Barry's daughter as a result of childhood sexual assault, as the charwoman who discovered Barry's sex when laying out the body stated that pregnancy stretch marks were present.\n\nThe teenage Barry was educated with the prospect of becoming a tutor, but given a lack of evidence of any work history, the Bulkleys appear to have struggled to find Barry any suitable tutoring positions. A conspiracy appears to have developed between Barry, Mary-Ann Bulkley and some of the late James Barry's influential, liberal-minded friends (General Francisco de Miranda, Dr Edward Fryer, who had become Barry's personal tutor, and Daniel Reardon, the family's solicitor) to enable the teenage Barry to enter medical school. The University of Edinburgh was chosen and Mary-Ann and Barry boarded a Leith smack on 30 November 1809. And so, Margaret Anne Bulkley became James Barry, nephew of the late James Barry RA the Irish romantic painter and remained known thus for the next 56 years. In a letter to Daniel Readon, sent on 14 December, Barry asked for any letters addressed to Margaret Bulkley to be forwarded to Mary-Ann Bulkley (whom Barry now refers to as \"my aunt\"), and mentions that '...it was very usefull for Mrs. Bulkley (my aunt) to have a Gentleman to take care of her on Board Ship and to have one in a strange country...'. Although the letter was signed \"James Barry\", the solicitor indiscreetly wrote on the back of the envelope 'Miss Bulkley, 14 December'; this crucial piece of evidence was the one which enabled researchers to finally confirm that Margaret Bulkley and James Barry were one and the same.\n\nArriving in Edinburgh in November 1809, Barry began studies at the Medical School as a 'literary and medical student'. Barry's short stature, unbroken voice, delicate features and smooth skin led many to suspect that Barry was a young boy not past puberty, and the University Senate initially attempted to block Barry's application for the final examinations due to this apparent youth. However, the Earl of Buchan, a friend of Dr Fryer and Barry's late namesake, persuaded the Senate to relent and Barry qualified \"Medicinae Doctor (MD)\" in 1812. Barry then moved back to London, signing up for the Autumn Course 1812/1813 as a pupil of the United Hospitals of Guy's and St Thomas', whose teachers included Henry Cline and celebrated surgeon Astley Cooper. On 2 July 1813, Barry successfully passed the examination of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.\n\nUpon joining the army, Barry was commissioned as a Hospital Assistant in the British Army on 6 July 1813, taking up posts in Chelsea and then the Royal Military Hospital in Plymouth, achieving a promotion to Assistant Surgeon to the Forces, equivalent to lieutenant, on 7 December 1815.\n\nFollowing this military training, Barry was posted to Cape Town, South Africa in 1816. Through Lord Buchan, Barry had a letter of introduction to the Governor, Lieutenant General Lord Charles Henry Somerset. Following the successful, even spectacular, treatment of Lord Charles's sick daughter, Barry was welcomed into the family, maintained a close friendship with the Governor, and became his personal physician. In 1822 Somerset appointed Barry as Colonial Medical Inspector, an extraordinary jump in expectations from Barry's low military rank which brought with it great responsibility. Over ten years of work in the Cape, Barry effected significant changes, among them improvements to sanitation and water systems, improved conditions for slaves, prisoners and the mentally ill, and provision of a sanctuary for the leper population. Barry also performed one of the first known successful Caesarean sections in which both mother and child survived; the child was christened James Barry Munnik in Barry's honour, and the name was passed down through the family, leading to Barry's name being borne by a later Prime Minister of South Africa, J. B. M. Hertzog. Barry also gained enemies by criticising local officials and their handling of medical matters, but the advantage of a close relationship with the Governor meant that the repercussions of these outspoken views were usually smoothed over.\n\nBarry was promoted to Surgeon to the Forces on 22 November 1827. Barry's subsequent posting was to Mauritius in 1828. In 1829, Barry risked a great deal of trouble by going absent without leave to return to England and treat Somerset, who had fallen ill, and remained there until his death in 1831. Barry's subsequent posting was to Jamaica, and then the island of Saint Helena in 1836. At St Helena, one clash with a fellow army surgeon resulted in Barry being arrested and court-martialled on a charge of \"conduct unbecoming of the character of an Officer and a Gentleman\". Barry was found not guilty, and honourably acquitted.\n\nIn 1840 Barry was posted to the Leeward Islands and Windward Islands of the West Indies, there focusing on medicine, management and improving the conditions of the troops, and receiving a promotion to Principal Medical Officer. In 1845, Barry contracted yellow fever and left for England for sick leave in October. After being cleared for duty, Barry was posted to Malta in 1846. Here Barry was severely reprimanded for inexplicably taking a seat in the local church that was reserved for the clergy, and had to deal with the threat - and eventual actuality - of a cholera epidemic, which broke out in 1850.\n\nThe following posting was to Corfu in 1851, which brought with it a promotion to the rank of Deputy Inspector-General of Hospitals on 16 May, equivalent to lieutenant colonel. From here, Barry temporarily visited the Crimea on leave - as a request to be posted there officially had been denied - where a famous altercation took place between Barry and Florence Nightingale at Scutari Hospital. Finally, in 1857 Barry was posted to Canada, and granted the local rank of Inspector General of Hospitals (equivalent to Brigadier General) on 25 September. In that position, Barry fought for better food, sanitation and proper medical care for prisoners and lepers, as well as soldiers and their families. This local rank was confirmed as substantive on 7 December 1858.\nWherever Barry served across the British Empire, improvements were made to sanitary conditions and the conditions and diet of both the common soldier and other, under-represented groups. Barry was outraged by unnecessary suffering, and took a heavy-handed and sometimes tactless approach to demanding improvements for the poor and underprivileged which often incited anger from officials and military officers; on several occasions Barry was both arrested and demoted for the extremity of this behaviour. Barry held strict and unusually modern views about nutrition, being completely vegetarian and teetotal, and, while keeping most personal relationships distant, was very fond of pets, particularly a beloved poodle named Psyche. Playwright Jean Binnie's radio play \"Doctor Barry\" (BBC, 1982) identified John Joseph Danson as the black servant Barry first employed in South Africa and who remained with Barry until the doctor's death.\n\nDespite protesting the decision, Barry was forcefully retired by the army on 19 July 1859 due to ill health and old age, and was succeeded as inspector general of hospitals by David Dumbreck. After a quiet retirement in London, Barry finally died from dysentery on 25 July 1865. The identity of the woman who discovered the truth of Barry's sex is disputed, but she was probably a charwoman who also laid out the dead. The charwoman, after failing to elicit payment for her services, sought redress in another way; she visited Barry's physician, Major D. R. McKinnon, who had issued the death certificate upon which Barry was identified as male. The woman claimed that Barry's body had been biologically female and had marks suggesting Barry had at one point borne a child. When McKinnon refused to pay her, she took the story to the press, and the situation became public. It was discussed in an exchange of letters between George Graham of the General Register Office, and Dr McKinnon.\n\nSir,\n\nIt has been stated to me that Inspector-General Dr James Barry, who died at 14 Margaret Street on 25 July 1865, was after his death found to be female.\n\nAs you furnished the Certificate as to the cause of his death, I take the liberty of asking you whether what I have heard is true, and whether you yourself ascertained that he was a woman and apparently had been a mother?\n\nPerhaps you may decline answering these questions; but I ask them not for publication but for my own information.\n\nYour faithful servant\n\nGeorge Graham\nMcKinnon's response was as follows:\n\nSir,\n\nI had been intimately acquainted with the doctor for good many years, both in London and the West Indies and I never had any suspicion that Dr Barry was a woman. I attended him during his last illness, (previously for bronchitis, and the affection for diarrhoea). On one occasion after Dr Barry’s death at the office of Sir Charles McGregor, there was the woman who performed the last offices for Dr Barry was waiting to speak to me. She wished to obtain some prerequisites [sic in source, but has to be a slip for perquisites, \"perks\"] of his employment, which the Lady who kept the lodging house in which Dr Barry died had refused to give her. Amongst other things she said that Dr Barry was a female and that I was a pretty doctor not to know this and she would not like to be attended by me. I informed her that it was none of my business whether Dr Barry was a male or a female, and that I thought that she might be neither, viz. an imperfectly developed man. She then said that she had examined the body, and was a perfect female and farther that there were marks of him having had a child when very young. I then enquired how have you formed that conclusion. The woman, pointing to the lower part of her stomach, said ‘from marks here. I am a maried woman and the mother of nine children and I ought to know.’\n\nThe woman seems to think that she had become acquainted with a great secret and wished to be paid for keeping it. I informed her that all Dr Barry’s relatives were dead, and that it was no secret of mine, and that my own impression was that Dr Barry was a Hermaphrodite. But whether Dr Barry was a male, female, or hermaphrodite I do not know, nor had I any purpose in making the discovery as I could positively swear to the identity of the body as being that of a person whom I had been acquainted with as Inspector-General of Hospitals for a period of years.\n\nYours faithfully,\n\nD.R. McKinnon\nAfter the matter was made public, many people claimed to have \"known it all along\". The British Army, seeking to suppress the story, sealed all records of Barry for the next 100 years. The historian Isobel Rae gained access to the army records in the 1950s, and concluded that James Barry the painter was indeed Barry's uncle. Barry was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery under the name \"James Barry\" and full military rank. It was claimed by several sources that the manservant who always attended Barry returned to Jamaica, but his actual fate is unknown.\n\nIn a letter chiding John Bulkley, Barry's older brother, for abandoning legal studies for the military, 19-year-old Barry wrote: \"Was I not a girl I would be a Soldier!\".\n\nBarry's interest in medicine was probably encouraged by the liberal-minded friends of the late James Barry RA, and just before travelling to Edinburgh to enrol as a medical student in 1809, Barry assumed a male identity. A short stature, slight build, unbroken voice, delicate features and smooth skin led others to suspect that Barry was not a man but a pre-pubescent boy. This identity was maintained through surgical training and recruitment into the British Army which, at officer rank level, did not then require a medical examination.\n\nDuring Barry's first posting abroad to Cape Town in South Africa, Barry became a close friend of the Governor, Lord Charles Somerset, and his family. It has been suggested that Lord Charles discovered Dr Barry's secret and that the relationship was more than friendship. Their closeness led to rumours and ultimately an accusation briefly appearing on a bridge post in Cape Town on 1 June 1824 saying that the writer had \"detected Lord Charles buggering Dr Barry\", which led to a court trial and investigation, as homosexuality was at that time strictly illegal. Despite these allegations, if Somerset was aware of Barry's sex, he did not reveal it.\n\nDespite efforts to appear masculine, witness reports comment on Barry's effeminacy and on a somewhat contradictory reputation - Barry had a reputation for being tactless, impatient, argumentative and opinionated, but was also considered to have had a good bedside manner and famous professional skill. Barry's temper and bravado led to a famous pistol duel with Captain Josias Cloete of the 21st Light Dragoons. Barry's aim was better, the bullet striking Cloete's shako military cap and removing its peak, which dissipated its force. During the Crimean War (1854–1856), Barry got into an argument with Florence Nightingale. After Barry's death Nightingale wrote that: I never had such a blackguard rating in all my life – I who have had more than any woman – than from this Barry sitting on his horse, while I was crossing the Hospital Square with only my cap on in the sun. \"He\" kept me standing in the midst of quite a crowd of soldiers, Commissariat, servants, camp followers, etc., etc., every one of whom behaved like a gentleman during the scolding I received while \"he\" behaved like a brute . . . After \"he\" was dead, I was told that (Barry) was a woman . . . I should say that (Barry) was the most hardened creature I ever met.\nBarry would never allow anyone into the room while undressing, and repeated a standing instruction that \"in the event of his death, strict precautions should be adopted to prevent any examination of his person\" and that the body should be \"buried in [the] bed sheets without further inspection\", indicating a desire to conceal physical sex both in life and in death. \"We Are Family,\" an LGBT magazine, argues that this is strong evidence of Barry's having been a transgender man, given that \"his wish was to die and be remembered as a man.\"\n\n picked up on Major McKinnon's statement that he did not know whether Barry was \"male, female or hermaphrodite\" and suggested that it might be more appropriate to say that Barry was \"hermaphrodite\" [or intersex] rather than \"female\", and \"may have had ambiguous genitalia\". These suppositions are based on the premise that \"Concealment of one's sex for ... 40 years in the British Army, is simply unbelievable\". However, show how Barry might have been able to conceal this secret from all but a few people, and those who did know did not reveal it while Barry was alive. N. Turner has commented on Kubba and Young's conclusion that the belief in an intersex condition was based on \"vanishingly slim evidence\".\n\n, among other LGBT theorists, has voiced the opinion that the intersex theory is an attempt to impose \"cisgender male\" characteristics onto Barry so as to undermine the concept that a transgender man could have achieved as much as Barry did.\n\nThe character of Barry has been played by Anna Massey in an episode of the BBC drama-documentary \"A Skirt Through History\".\n\nBarry's life is the subject of the historical novel \"James Miranda Barry\" (published in the United States as \"The Doctor\") by Patricia Duncker.\n\nThe Canadian aspect of Barry's career was dramatised in an episode of the series \"Heritage Television\", produced by then-independent superchannel CHCH in Hamilton, and hosted by Canadian historian Pierre Berton.\n\nA 2004 play, \"Whistling Psyche\" by Sebastian Barry, imagines a meeting between James Barry and Florence Nightingale.\n\nAs of April 2018, a film is said to by in early production, in which Rachel Weisz plans to produce and star, on the life of Dr. James Barry. No further information on this has been made public beyond what Weisz herself has divulged via the sourced New York Times interview.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3357322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3357322", "title": "Jay Cutler", "text": "Jay Cutler\n\nJay Christopher Cutler (born April 29, 1983) is a former American football quarterback who played 12 seasons in the National Football League. He played college football at Vanderbilt and was drafted by the Denver Broncos in the first round of the 2006 NFL Draft, for whom he played for three seasons. In 2009, he was traded to the Chicago Bears, where he played for eight seasons.\n\nFollowing the 2016 season, Cutler announced his retirement and his intention to become a sportscaster for NFL on Fox's television broadcasts. However, following a season-ending injury to Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill in August 2017, Cutler came out of retirement and signed a one-year deal with the team.\nJay Cutler was born in Santa Claus, Indiana, in 1983. Cutler attended Heritage Hills High School in Lincoln City, Indiana. He started three years at quarterback for the Patriots football team, amassing a combined 26–1 record in his junior and senior years, including a perfect 15–0 during his senior year. Cutler and his team outscored opponents 746–85, including a 90–0 shutout at Pike Central. During his senior year, Cutler connected on 122 of 202 passes (60.4%) for 2,252 yards with 31 touchdowns, while rushing 65 times for 493 yards with 11 touchdowns. He also started at safety for three years, intercepting nine passes as a senior, 12th overall in the state. His team's perfect record during his senior year included the school's first 3A state championship, where Heritage Hills beat Zionsville in overtime, 27–24. The most notable play of the game occurred when Cutler lateraled the ball to the halfback, Cole Seifrig, who then passed it to Cutler who ran it into the end zone. Cutler also played strong safety in the state championship and made 19 tackles.\n\nCutler was named a first-team All-State selection by the Associated Press as a senior. In addition to playing football in high school, he was a first-team all-state selection in basketball and garnered honorable mention all-state accolades as a shortstop in baseball.\n\nCutler grew up as a Chicago Bears fan during his youth in Indiana.\n\nCutler attended Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee. He started all 45 career games that he played for the Vanderbilt Commodores football team, the most starts by a quarterback in school history. He did not miss a game in college due to injury. The Commodores were 11–35 during his tenure, including going 5–27 versus the SEC. In 2002, Cutler set the school record for touchdowns and rushing yards by a freshman and rushed for more yards than any other Southeastern Conference quarterback that year. The Associated Press honored him with a first-team freshman All-SEC selection. In 2004, as a junior, Cutler completed 61.0 percent of his passes, setting a school record, while throwing for 1,844 yards with 10 touchdowns and a career-low five interceptions.\n\nThe 2005 season, Cutler's final year of play at Vanderbilt, was his most successful. As an 11-game starter, he completed 273 of 462 passes (59.1%) for 3,073 yards, 21 touchdowns and nine interceptions, as he became the first Commodore to win the SEC Offensive Player of the Year (coaches and media) since 1967. With his senior-season performance, Cutler became the second Commodore to throw for more than 3,000 yards in a season, while his 273 completions and 21 touchdowns ranked second on the school’s single-season list. He led the Commodores to victories over Wake Forest, Arkansas, Ole Miss, Richmond and Tennessee. The Commodores also scored the second most points ever (42) laid upon the Florida Gators at their current home field at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Vanderbilt nearly upset the 13th-ranked Gators before falling 49–42 in the second overtime after a controversial excessive celebration call prevented the Commodores from going for 2 at the end of regulation. Reflecting on Cutler's college career, former Denver Broncos safety John Lynch said, \"If this guy can take a bunch of future doctors and lawyers and have them competing against the Florida Gators, this guy is a stud.\"\n\nCutler ended his career by leading Vanderbilt past Tennessee 28–24, their first over the Volunteers since 1982 (the year before Cutler was born), and the first in Knoxville since 1975. Cutler passed for three touchdowns and 315 yards, becoming the first quarterback in school history to record four consecutive 300-yard passing performances. Cutler's final play in college was the game-winning (and streak-ending) touchdown pass to teammate Earl Bennett against Tennessee. A finalist for the Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award (nation’s top senior quarterback), Cutler was a first-team All-SEC pick by the league’s coaches and led the conference with a school-record 3,288 yards of total offense.\n\nWhile at Vanderbilt, Cutler was a three-year captain and four-year starter, setting school career records for total offense (9,953 yards), touchdown passes (59), passing yards (8,697), pass completions (710), pass attempts (1,242), and combined touchdowns (76).\n\nCutler graduated from Vanderbilt in 2005 with a bachelor's degree in human and organizational development.\n\n\nVanderbilt University school career records:\n\nCutler was ranked by many experts as the third-best quarterback prospect in the 2006 NFL Draft, after Matt Leinart of USC and Vince Young of Texas. ESPN's Chris Mortensen and Ron Jaworski tabbed him as the best quarterback available in the draft, and some scouts believed he had better arm strength than Young and Leinart, and compared him to Brett Favre for his gunslinger attitude. At the 2006 NFL Scouting Combine, Cutler completed 23 repetitions of a 225-pound bench press (more than some linemen) and ran a 40-yard dash in 4.77 seconds.\n\nCutler was selected by the Denver Broncos in the first round with the 11th pick in the draft, acquired from the St. Louis Rams for their 1st and 3rd round picks. Many believed Cutler was chosen by the Broncos due to the lackluster performance in the previous season's of Jake Plummer. After the pick by Denver, Cutler said, \"We had no warning. I think I knew about 15 seconds before everyone else did.\" Cutler, as predicted by most, was the third quarterback chosen, after Young (3rd overall) and Leinart (10th). He is the third first-round pick to come from Vanderbilt, preceded by Will Wolford and Bill Wade. On July 27, 2006, Cutler agreed to terms on a six-year $48 million contract, which included $11 million in bonuses.\n\nAfter a strong training camp in 2006, Cutler was promoted from third to second on the Broncos' quarterback depth chart ahead of Bradlee Van Pelt. He passed for more yards than any other rookie in the preseason.\n\nOn November 27, head coach Mike Shanahan officially announced that Cutler would replace Jake Plummer as starting quarterback despite a 7-4 record because, \"I think he gives us the best chance to win now.\" The controversial decision capped weeks of speculation and rumors about Cutler's impending promotion to a starting role.\n\nCutler took his first NFL snap on December 3 (Week 13), and after some initial jitters (0-3 with sack and fumble) completed his first touchdown to tight end Stephen Alexander in the second quarter. In the fourth quarter, he threw a memorable 71-yard touchdown to fellow-rookie Brandon Marshall to tie the game 20–20. It was one of the longest touchdown passes for a debut in NFL history and was also the second-longest pass play between two rookies in Broncos history. He also had two interceptions and took three sacks in the loss.\n\nOn December 10, in a road loss against the San Diego Chargers, Cutler connected with tight end Tony Scheffler for two touchdowns in a span of 48 seconds, which is tied for fastest, in league history that two rookies produced a pair of scoring passes.\n\nCutler's first win came in his third start on December 17, which was a 37–20 road victory over the Arizona Cardinals. He finished the game 21-of-31 with 261 yards, two touchdowns, an interception and a QB rating of 101.7, the highest for a Broncos rookie since John Elway in 1983. One touchdown traveled 65 yards in the air, and was recorded as a 54-yard touchdown to Javon Walker on the Broncos' third play of the game. Shanahan said to the media, \"You saw what he could do today. It doesn't take a genius out there to figure out this guy is very composed, can make all the throws and plays with a lot of confidence.\"\n\nCutler then led the Broncos to a Christmas Eve win over the Cincinnati Bengals, 24–23, in his fourth start on the season. He went 12-of-23 with 179 yards, two touchdowns and one interception. He also directed the Broncos on a 99-yard drive in the third quarter that culminated on a Mike Bell two-yard touchdown run. As a result of the two passing touchdowns in the game against the Bengals, Cutler became the first rookie QB in NFL history to throw for at least two touchdowns in each of his first four games played. He also became the second rookie in league history (fifth player overall) to throw at least two touchdown passes in each of his first four starts.\n\nThe Broncos' quest to clinch a playoff berth came up short in the final game of the season, when they fell at home 26–23 in overtime to the San Francisco 49ers. The loss dropped the Broncos to a 9–7 overall record and 4–4 at home. Despite sustaining a concussion in the first half, Cutler finished 21 of 32 with 230 yards and a touchdown, and led Denver on a game-tying touchdown drive in the closing minutes of regulation to force overtime.\n\nIn five games played on the season, Cutler finished with a record of 2–3, and went 81-of-137 for 1,001 yards, 9 touchdowns, and 5 interceptions, earning a franchise rookie record passer rating of 88.5. He posted the second-highest touchdown percentage (6.6) and third-highest TD-to-INT ratio (1.8) among NFL rookies since 1970 with at least 125 passing attempts.\n\nThe 2007 NFL season marked Cutler's first full season as the starting quarterback of the Denver Broncos. In the first game of the season against the Buffalo Bills, Cutler led Denver to a comeback win on a 12-play, 42-yard drive culminating in a Jason Elam 42-yard field goal as time expired. Cutler's pass attempts (39), completions (23), and yards (304) for the game were career-highs at the time. He led Denver to their second straight comeback win the next week in the home opener against the Oakland Raiders. Late in regulation, Cutler moved the team 78 yards in 15 plays for the game-tying field goal with 2:18 remaining. The game went into overtime, where he engineered a 52-yard drive that led to another game-winning field goal by Elam. Cutler had a touchdown pass during the game, making him the first Broncos passer to begin his Broncos career with at least one touchdown pass in his first seven starts. The streak reached nine games through losses to Jacksonville and at Indianapolis (which featured his first career rushing touchdown), but ended with a 41–3 home loss to the San Diego Chargers in the fifth game of the season.\n\nAfter the bye week in Week 6, the 2-3 Broncos beat the 4–1 Pittsburgh Steelers, 31–28 (all three wins on last-second Elam field goals). Cutler had a QB rating of 106.7, and career highs of 75.9% passes completed, three touchdowns, 41 rushing yards and a long run of 31 yards, earning NBC Sunday Night Football's Horse Trailer Player of the Game (with Elam). Cutler finally had an interception-free game in his 12th start against the 6–1 Green Bay Packers, in which he drove 89-yards for a game-tying field goal in the last 2:27 of regulation, before losing in overtime, 19–13, on Green Bay's first play from scrimmage. In week 8, Cutler had just four attempts against the Detroit Lions before leaving with a leg injury; backup Patrick Ramsey floundered in a 44–7 loss. Cutler returned the next week in a 27–11 victory at Kansas City.\n\nIn Week 10, the 4-5 Broncos faced the 6-3 Tennessee Titans (and fellow 2006 draftee Vince Young for the first time) in a MNF Game. Cutler posted a career-second-best 137.0 passer rating in a 34–20 victory. He was the first Broncos quarterback since Elway in 1995 to throw two 40+ yard touchdowns in a game (of the team's franchise-record four 40+ yard touchdowns that night), and the 5–5 Broncos moved into a tie with San Diego atop the AFC West. However, the Broncos won only one of the next five games, a 41–7 Chiefs blowout. In that game, Cutler passed for four touchdowns and a then-career-best rating of 141.0. But that bright spot came between two pairs of losses; in the four games Cutler had five interceptions, took 12 sacks, twice had a rating under 50.0, and culminated in 23-3 loss to San Diego that eliminated the Broncos from the playoffs. Cutler salvaged a 7-9 record with a 22-19 overtime win over Minnesota, eliminating them as well.\n\nDenver missed the playoffs for a second straight year. Cutler started all 16 games, completing 297-of-467 passes (63.6%) for 3,497 yards, 20 touchdowns and 14 interceptions. He was the NFL’s 12th-ranked passer (88.1) and also had the tenth-most passing yards (3,497). Furthermore, Cutler was the league’s ninth-best third-down passer, with a 92.1 passer rating (73-of-125 for 901 yards, eight touchdowns, and three interceptions). It was the seventh most passing yards in Broncos history, and third-best completion percentage. Like his predecessor Plummer, Cutler showed mobility with 44 rushes for 205 yards (4.7 yards per carry) and a touchdown on the season.\n\nIn late 2007, various experts suggested Cutler was the young quarterback most likely to reach the elite status along the lines of Peyton Manning and Tom Brady. Cutler, Brandon Marshall and Tony Scheffler went to Atlanta together to train and work on timing for the 2008 season.\n\nBefore the 2008 regular season began, Cutler and tight end Daniel Graham were voted offensive captains by Broncos teammates.\n\nCutler started the season with a 41-14 \"Monday Night Football\" victory over Oakland. He completed 16-of-24 passes for 300 yards and two touchdowns, and had the league's second-highest passer rating (137.5). The next week, Cutler and the Broncos defeated the San Diego Chargers in Denver, 39–38. Cutler went 36-of-50, with 350 yards passing and a career-best-tying four touchdowns, including one to Eddie Royal on 4th and Goal with 0:24 left, followed by a game-winning two-point conversion again to Royal. This occurred one play after Cutler fumbled, but an inadvertent whistle by referee Ed Hochuli before the Chargers recovered gave the Broncos the ball back. In Week 3, Cutler had 264 yards and two touchdowns in a 34-22 home win over New Orleans. Cutler threw two interceptions for the first time in the Broncos first defeat, 33–19 at Kansas City. Despite this, he finished September first in the AFC in completions (102), passing yards (1,275), and attempts (157), second in yards per attempt (8.12), third in passing touchdowns (9) and quarterback rating (98.6), and fifth in completion percentage (65.0%), winning AFC Offensive Player of the Month honors for the first time in his career.\nThe Broncos edged Tampa Bay 16–13 behind Cutler's 23-of-34 performance with 227 yards, one touchdown and no interceptions. The Broncos were 4–1 and leading AFC West. But then followed a 24-7 loss to Jacksonville Jaguars, where Cutler passed for just 192 yards, two touchdowns and one interception. Next, Cutler injured his index finger on the first play of a 41-7 drubbing at New England; he ended the night with 168 yards and two interceptions. After a bye week, the Broncos suffered their third straight defeat, 26-17 to Miami, behind Cutler's 24-of-46 passing for 307 yards, two touchdowns and season-high three interceptions. During the 1-4 skid, Cutler had all seven of the Broncos touchdowns.\n\nIn game 9, the Broncos found themselves down 23-10 at Cleveland, but in the 4th quarter Cutler threw a career-long 93-yard touchdown to Eddie Royal, followed by a touchdown passes to Daniel Graham and the game-winner to Brandon Marshall with 1:14 left. Cutler finished the game going 24-of-42 with 447 yards (career-high), three touchdowns and one interception, and received AFC Offensive Player of the Week honors for the first time in his career. The next week, Cutler threw another late 4th quarter touchdown to Daniel Graham for a 24-20 win at Atlanta.\n\nIn game 11, Cutler's streak of games with a touchdown ended at 11 as he went 16-of-37 for 204 yards and an interception in a 31-10 loss to Oakland. He did, however, reach 3,000 yards on the season, tying John Elway by reaching this mark in 11 games. In a windy game 12 at the New York Jets, Cutler went 27-of-43 with 357 yards, two touchdowns and one interception in the 34–17 victory. The 7-5 Broncos had a 3-game road win streak, 3 game home loss streak, and 3 game lead on San Diego (who had their own 3 game loss streak) with four games remaining.\n\nCutler began December completing a season high 80% of his 40 passes for 286 yards, two touchdowns, and one interception in a 24-17 win over the Chiefs. The win came via a 95-yard drive and go-ahead touchdown pass to Brandon Marshall for Cutler's fourth rally of the season. However, Cutler was just 21-of-33 with 172 yards, one touchdown, and one interception in a 20-30 loss at Carolina, and despite 359 yards and 2 rushing touchdowns, had no passing touchdowns and one interception in a 30-23 loss to Buffalo. This set up a winner-takes-the-division season finale against the San Diego Chargers. Cutler went 33-of-49 with 316 yards, one touchdown, and two interceptions, but it wasn't enough to counteract the Chargers seven touchdowns and Denver lost 52–21, failing to reach the playoffs for the third straight season.\n\nCutler finished the season with career-highs in passing completions (384), passing attempts (616), passing yards (4,526), passing touchdowns (25), interceptions (18), rushing attempts (57) and rushing touchdowns (2). At the time, his passing yards, completions and attempts were all single-season franchise records for the Broncos. He also had the most 300-yard passing games (8) in team history. For the season, Cutler ranked third in the NFL in completions (first in the AFC), second in passing attempts (first in the AFC), third in passing yards (first in the AFC) and seventh in passing touchdowns (third in the AFC). He was selected as the FedEx Air Player of the Week for his performances during Weeks 10, 13 and 14. He finished third in fan voting for AFC quarterbacks in the 2009 Pro Bowl, and was officially selected as a reserve. Before the game in Hawaii, fellow Pro Bowlers Peyton Manning, Nick Mangold, and Kris Dielman threw him into a pool, ruining his blood sugar monitor. A replacement one was found at a drugstore, and Cutler played without incident.\n\nAfter the 2008 season, coach Shanahan was fired and replaced by the Patriots' offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels. On February 28, 2009, ESPN reported that the Broncos were listening to trade offers for Cutler, a possibility he found upsetting. McDaniels denied interest in trades, but Cutler did not believe him. On March 15, Cutler listed his Colorado home for sale, and confirmed that he had officially asked the Broncos to trade him. On March 31, Broncos owner Pat Bowlen announced that the team would accommodate his request, and three days later Cutler was indeed traded with the Broncos' 2009 fifth-round draft pick to the Chicago Bears for quarterback Kyle Orton, the Bears' first- and third-round selections in 2009, and first-round pick in 2010. On October 20, Cutler and the Bears came to terms on a two-year contract extension worth $30 million, running through 2013.\nCutler was the subject of most of the praise and criticism during the Chicago Bears' mercurial season. He began the season with 4 INTs in a loss to Green Bay, followed by seven touchdowns to one interception in three straight wins with a 100+ QB Rating. The Bears lost eight of the next ten games behind Cutler's 11 touchdowns vs NFL-leading 20 interceptions. This included a Game 9 loss to San Francisco where Cutler threw a career-high five interceptions and no touchdowns, and Game 14 loss at Baltimore where Cutler had career-worsts of 94 yards and a passer rating of 7.9. But Cutler again reversed direction in Game 15 against Brett Favre's division rival Vikings, where he threw four touchdowns, including a go-ahead late in the 4th quarter, and 31-yard game-winner in overtime. He earned Offensive Player of the Week for his effort against the Vikings. He then ended the season with another four-touchdown outing and win over Detroit. Cutler finished the season with 27 touchdowns, league-leading 26 interceptions, 3,666 yards passing, and career-worst passer rating of 76.8.\n\nThe Bears hired Mike Martz (famed for developing the St. Louis Rams' \"Greatest Show on Turf\") as offensive coordinator. Though Martz had been critical of Cutler as an analyst, both professed excitement about working together.\n\nCutler led the Bears to a 3–0 start, throwing six touchdowns and only two interceptions. However, in week 4, Cutler was sacked nine times in the first half against the New York Giants, missing the rest of that game and the next with a concussion. He returned to six sacks in a loss to Seattle and 4 interceptions in a loss to Washington, leaving the Bears at 4–3 at their bye week.\nMartz retooled the offensive line and showed more commitment to the running game, allowing Cutler to escape the next three games with just six sacks total. He won those three, followed by then-career-bests of four touchdowns and rating of 146.2 in a win over the 7–3 Eagles (winning NFC Player of the Week), and an 80.8% completion percentage in a win over Detroit. After a 152-yard, no touchdown, two interception loss to New England, Cutler won back-to-back games with three touchdowns, one interception, and 100+ ratings in each, before dropping the season finale to Green Bay. The Bears finished with an 11–5 record, an NFC North title, and a first-round bye. Despite taking a league-leading 52 sacks, Cutler finished the season with 3,274 passing yards, 23 touchdowns, 16 interceptions, 232 rushing yards, and 4 comeback victories.\n\nIn Cutler's playoff debut against the Seattle Seahawks, he had 274 passing yards, two passing touchdowns, 43 rushing yards, and two rushing touchdowns in the Bears 35–24 win, making him the second quarterback in NFL history since Otto Graham in 1954 and 1955 to score two touchdown passes and two touchdown runs in a playoff game.\n\nIn the NFC Championship Game, Cutler completed 6-of-14 passes for 80 yards and an interception, before a knee injury sidelined him early in the third quarter of a 21–14 loss to Green Bay. The Bears did not make an immediate announcement about Cutler's condition, allowing speculation to grow. In possibly the NFL’s first player-on-player social media attack, Cutler was being criticized seconds after the injury by Maurice Jones-Drew, Darnell Dockett, Deion Sanders, and Mark Schlereth. Bears coach Lovie Smith later clarified that he, and not Cutler, made the decision after consulting the medical and training staff. The following day, an MRI revealed Cutler had sprained his MCL. Hall of Fame quarterback Troy Aikman commented that the widespread reaction reflected hostility towards Cutler's career-long polarizing attitude. Bears teammates defended Cutler, and his critics themselves became the targets of insults from other players, including Packers Aaron Rodgers (\"disrespectful\"), LeRoy Butler (\"stupid\"), and B. J. Raji (\"pretty wrong and a lot times it has a lot to do with jealousy\").\n\nThroughout 2011, offensive coordinator Mike Martz was commonly criticized for aggressive play-calling in a pass-happy offense, leading to unnecessary wear on a quarterback returning from injury. In the season opener against the Atlanta Falcons, Cutler started the season off on a good note with 312 passing yards, two touchdowns, and one interception in the 30–12 win. In Week 2 against the New Orleans Saints, Cutler was sacked 6 times and kicked in the throat. During Week 6, Cutler was caught on microphone asking a player to go to Martz on the sideline, and \"tell him I said fuck him!\" Despite these incidents, by Week 10, Cutler had a middle-of-the-pack QB rating of 85.7 (12th in the league) and the Bears were 6–3. However, on November 20, Cutler broke the thumb on his throwing hand tackling San Diego's Antoine Cason after an interception. He played through the final drive for the win, but the injury required season-ending surgery. Under backups Caleb Hanie and Josh McCown, the Bears lost six of their remaining seven games, and missed the playoffs. Overall, in his shortened 2011 season, Cutler had 2,319 passing yards, 13 touchdowns, and seven interceptions.\n\nBefore the season, the Bears replaced Martz with Mike Tice, hired Cutler's former coach Jeremy Bates from the Broncos, and acquired his former teammate, wide receiver Brandon Marshall from the Miami Dolphins. Unlike Martz, Tice allowed Cutler to call audibles at the line of scrimmage.\nCutler started his season by throwing an interception returned for a touchdown by the Colts' Jerrell Freeman. He bounced back from a miserable 1st quarter (passer rating 4.9) to finish the game 21-of-35 for 333 yards, two touchdowns, and a 98.9 passer rating, in a 41–21 victory. In a frustrating week 2, Cutler was sacked 7 times and threw 4 interceptions against Green Bay, yelling at his porous offensive line and bumping left tackle J'Marcus Webb on his way to a 28.2 passer rating in a 23–10 loss. The line responded by surrendering just 5 sacks in the next three games, all wins, the second a 34-18 win over Dallas where Cutler was 18 of 24 for 275 yards, two touchdowns, no interceptions, and the third-best passer rating of his career (140.1). After unspectacular performances in close wins over Detroit and Carolina, Cutler had three touchdowns and no interceptions with a rating of 138.1 in a 51–20 blowout of Tennessee, bringing the Bears to 7–1 on the season, and Cutler's personal record in games with a 100+ QB rating to 25–0.\n\nIn Week 10 against the Houston Texans, Cutler joined Michael Vick and Alex Smith as the third NFL quarterback out with a concussion that day. His replacement Jason Campbell lost that game and the next. Cutler returned for a Week 12 win over the Minnesota Vikings. Despite a 119.6 passer rating against the Seattle Seahawks in week 13, the Bears lost in overtime, which was followed by two close losses to Minnesota and Green Bay. Cutler finished the season with two solid performances in easy wins over the Cardinals and Lions. Despite a 10–6 record, the Bears missed the playoffs.\n\nCutler again finished the season in the top 5 for times sacked, but nevertheless lead the league in fourth-quarter passer rating with 114.7. In just four seasons, he was already the Bears all-time team leader in passer rating (81.9) and completions (1,034), and second in yards (12,292), touchdowns (82), and completion percentage (59.6%). His reunion with Brandon Marshall led to franchise records of 118 receptions for 1,508 yards, and the 7th-year receiver's first All-Pro selection.\n\nNew head coach Marc Trestman developed a successful strategy to better protect his quarterback, and in the first six games Cutler was sacked only 9 times compared to 23, 19, and 19 in the previous three seasons. Under the new scheme, Cutler began the season with three consecutive games with a 90+ passer rating for the first time since 2009. In each of those wins, he threw touchdowns in the 4th quarter, including game-winners in week 1 against Cincinnati and week 2 against Minnesota. He threw three interceptions in a week 4 loss to Detroit. In week five, Cutler was sacked three times and fumbled in the first 16 minutes of the game, then rebounded for 358 yards, two touchdowns, and a season-high 128.1 passer rating in defeat. He threw 2 touchdowns in a Week 6 win over the New York Giants. Through the first six games, he had a career best 95.2 passer rating, five multiple touchdown games, and a franchise-record 1,630 passing yards.\n\nHowever, against the Washington Redskins the following week, his 100th career start, Cutler tore a groin muscle when sacked by Chris Baker, breaking Jim Harbaugh's franchise record for most times sacked. Josh McCown was solid in relief, barely losing that Redskins game in a 45–41 shootout, and after the bye-week tossing two touchdowns in a 27–21 win at Green Bay. Cutler was medically cleared to return early for the week 10 game against Detroit, where he had 250 yards, one touchdown, and one interception before a hit from Stephen Tulloch in the second quarter finally drove him from the game on the Bears last drive. McCown drove 74 yards in 90 seconds for a touchdown, but the two-point conversion failed and the Bears lost 21–19.\n\nCutler missed the next four games with his injury and McCown played well in his absence, leading to some controversy when Cutler was reinstated as the starting QB in Week 15. Cutler threw two interceptions in the first half against the Cleveland Browns, one returned for a touchdown, but ended with a 102.2 passer rating and three touchdowns. In the next week's 54–11 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, Cutler ended up with 14,687 career passing yards for the Bears, one more than Sid Luckman's franchise record. The season finale was a winner-takes-the-division matchup at home against Green Bay. Despite Cutler's 15-of-24 passing for 226 yards, two touchdowns, and one interception for a 103.8 passer rating, the Bears lost 33–28 on a last-minute Hail Mary, missing the playoffs with an 8–8 record. Cutler ended the season completing 224 of 355 passes for 2,621 yards, 19 touchdowns, 12 interceptions, and a career-high 89.2 passer rating.\n\nOn January 2, 2014, Cutler signed a seven-year deal, keeping him with the Bears through the 2020 NFL season.\n\nCutler and the Bears struggled to a 5–11 record in Trestman's second year as head coach. The Bears opened the season with an overtime loss to the Buffalo Bills, in which Cutler threw two touchdowns and interceptions for 349 yards. The next week, the team overcame a 17-point deficit behind Cutler's four touchdown passes to defeat the San Francisco 49ers. The next week, he led the Bears to a 27–19 victory against the New York Jets, tallying 225 passing yards, two touchdowns and no interceptions.\n\nIn both weeks 4 and 5, Cutler threw two touchdowns and two interceptions in defeats to the Packers and Panthers. In week 6, Cutler recorded a career-high 381 passing yards, defeating Atlanta 27–13. Cutler recorded just 190 yards in a loss to Miami, then threw three touchdowns but suffered a lopsided 51–23 defeat to the New England Patriots, and threw two interceptions in an even worse 55–14 loss to the Packers. The 3–6 Bears drew criticism from former Bears linebacker Brian Urlacher, who suggested that Phil Emery shouldn't have re-signed Cutler. \"Financially, he is one of the elite guys in the NFL... He just hasn't produced like an elite quarterback.\"\n\nCutler and the Bears rebounded with two consecutive wins. He threw three touchdowns, two interceptions, and 330 yards against the Vikings, and 130 yards and one passing touchdown against Tampa Bay. That would be the last win of the season. Cutler started the Thanksgiving Day game against Detroit with two passing touchdowns, but the Bears stumbled for the remainder of the game \"en route\" to 34–17 loss. He finished the game with two touchdowns, two interceptions, and 280 yards. The Bears suffered their eighth loss of the season to the Dallas Cowboys, in which Cutler threw 341 yards, two touchdowns and one interception, mathematically eliminating the Bears from the playoffs. Under criticism, offensive coordinator Aaron Kromer partially blamed Cutler's audibles and impromptu play calling for the poor record, but later apologized to Cutler and the Bears organization in a press conference. The next week, Cutler threw two touchdowns, three interceptions, and just 194 yards for a season-low 55.8 passer rating in a loss to the Saints. Trestman demoted Cutler in favor of Jimmy Clausen, but Cutler returned when Clausen suffered a concussion in the loss to Detroit. In the Bears' season finale against the Vikings, Cutler completed 23 of 36 passes for 172 yards, and a 63 passer rating in the loss. He accrued 3,812 passing yards, a career-high 28 passing touchdowns, but led the NFL with 18 interceptions.\n\nThe Bears hired John Fox as their new head coach on January 19. Both Fox and GM Ryan Pace were initially lukewarm on Cutler, but reluctantly decided to keep Cutler as the starter. Tight end Martellus Bennett indicated his teammates were similarly unenthusiastic.\n\nCutler began the season with a lackluster 225 yards in a loss to Green Bay, tossing a last-minute touchdown to Bennett to bring his rating up to 67.5. He began Week 2 against the Cardinals with 8 straight completions, but then threw an interception and injured his hamstring failing to stop safety Tony Jefferson from returning it for a touchdown. Without Cutler, the Bears lost 48-23 to the Cardinals, and were shutout 26–0 in Week 3 at Seattle. Cutler returned against Oakland, throwing two first half touchdowns, and drove 48 yards in the last 2:05 to set-up a game-winning field goal. In Week 5, Cutler threw two touchdowns in the final 3:05 for a dramatic 18–17 victory over the Chiefs and a tie of Jim McMahon's record for the most wins in team history. In Week 6, Cutler was just short of a third consecutive comeback: despite a season-best 353 yards, a 4th quarter touchdown and 2-point conversion, followed by a 69-yard drive in 17 seconds for a game-tying field goal, the Bears lost in overtime to the Lions. After the bye, in Week 8 Cutler again scored a go-ahead touchdown late in the 4th quarter, but the Vikings rallied for two late scores and a 23–20 win. In Week 9 against San Diego, Cutler threw yet another late 4th quarter touchdown, which both won the game 22–19, and set the Bears franchise record (139). In Week 10, Cutler had a stellar performance in a 37–13 win St. Louis, going 19-for-24 for 258 yards, three touchdowns (two of them for 80+ yards for the only time in franchise history) and no interceptions; his 151.0 passer rating was a career-best, and the best by a Bears QB since 1980.\n\nThat would be the season high-point for both the 4–5 Bears and Cutler. The Bears went 2–5 the rest of the season, four of the losses by less than 7 points. Cutler had three unremarkable games in narrow losses to Denver and San Francisco and a narrow win at Green Bay. In Week 14, Cutler threw for 315 yards and two touchdowns against Washington, including a 50-yard completion with two minutes remaining, but Robbie Gould missed the game-tying field goal for a 24–21 loss. The next week, Cutler was sacked five times and threw an interception in a 38–17 loss to Minnesota, then had just 156 yards but a 100.2 passer rating in a win over Tampa Bay. In the season finale against Detroit, Cutler had two touchdowns, but three interceptions including one deep in Lions territory at the 2 minute warning to seal the 24–20 loss.\n\nDespite his receiving unit being plagued by injuries, Cutler had one of his best seasons as he ended 2015 with 3,629 passing yards, 21 touchdowns, 11 interceptions, and career highs in passer rating (92.3) and completion percentage (64.4). The 11 interceptions were the lowest in his career and resulted in an interception percentage of 2.3, the lowest in a season when he has started at least 12 games, while 21 touchdowns were his second-most since 2011 and the 3,629 yards were the third-most in his career. On third down, Cutler had a 103.2 passer rating (fourth in the NFL) after completing 91 of 141 passes for 1,242 yards, seven touchdowns and two interceptions.\n\nWith Adam Gase's departure to become the head coach of the Miami Dolphins, Dowell Loggains became the Bears' offensive coordinator. In Cutler's first two games, he was sacked 8 times and had two interceptions in losses to the Houston Texans (where he injured his right thumb but completed the game), and Philadelphia Eagles (where he re-aggravated his injury and was replaced by Brian Hoyer). He missed the next five games before making his return against the Vikings, where he completed 20 of 31 passes for 252 yards, a touchdown and a 100.5 passer rating en route to a 20–10 victory. Zach Miller praised Cutler's performance in his return, even adding that he delivered a half-time speech to motivate his teammates. Cutler fumbled and threw two interceptions (including a pick-6) in a loss to Tampa Bay. Cutler sustained a labrum injury in his throwing shoulder on November 20, 2016 in a loss to the Giants, and missed the rest of the season. In his five games in 2016, Cutler recorded 1,059 passing yards, four touchdowns, five interceptions, and a 78.1 passer rating.\n\nOn March 9, 2017, Cutler was released by the Bears through a $2 million buyout clause, after the guaranteed years in his seven-year contract had run out. After Cutler's lackluster performances and injuries, the move had been expected for months, as the Bears had decided to award a $45 million contract to Mike Glennon. In May 2017, Cutler announced his retirement from professional football and was hired by FOX Sports to be a commentator.\n\nOn August 3, 2017, Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill suffered a season-ending injury, and the team reached out to the retired Cutler. On August 7, Cutler signed a one-year, $10 million contract with the Dolphins, reuniting him with former Bears offensive coordinator Adam Gase, who had been hired as Miami's head coach in 2016.\n\nIn Week 2, the Dolphins won their first game against the Los Angeles Chargers, 19–17. Cutler was 24-of-33 for 230 yards with a touchdown to wide receiver Kenny Stills in the road victory. In a Week 7 game against the New York Jets, Cutler suffered multiple cracked ribs. He was replaced by Matt Moore during the game and was ruled out for the following week's game against the Baltimore Ravens. He returned in Week 9 to face the Oakland Raiders on \"Sunday Night Football\". In the 27–24 loss, he was very efficient going 34-of-42 for 311 yards and a touchdown. In the Week 11 game, Cutler suffered a concussion, which caused him to miss the team's next game. Cutler had his best performance of the year in a Monday Night Football game against New England where he outplayed Tom Brady and the Dolphins upset the Patriots. Cutler threw three touchdowns in the win. \n\nOn December 27, he said he would probably only continue his NFL career if he can be a starter, stating \"I wouldn’t want to move again or go somewhere just to back up.\" He started 14 games and finished with 2,666 passing yards, 19 touchdowns, and 14 interceptions for the Dolphins in the 2017 season. The Dolphins did not make the playoffs and Cutler went 6-8 as a starter. Many teammates, including Kenny Stills, praised Cutler during the season. “I love the guy,” Stills said. “He’s a good man. People in other places have kind of given him a hard time. I got to know him as a man and as a player and I appreciate him. I like him. I’m thankful for the experience of playing with him, catching some balls from him.”\n\n\n's NFL off-season, Jay Cutler held at least 14 Bears franchise records, including:\n\nOther franchise records ()\n\n\nCutler began dating reality television star Kristin Cavallari in Fall 2010 and became engaged to her in April 2011. They called off the engagement in July 2011, but subsequently confirmed their reconciliation that November. Cutler and Cavallari married on June 7, 2013 in Nashville, Tennessee. They have two sons and one daughter: Camden Jack (born August 8, 2012), Jaxon Wyatt (born May 7, 2014), and Saylor James (November 23, 2015). Despite the birth of his first son coming the day before the Bears played their preseason opener against the Denver Broncos, Cutler dressed for the game, though he did not play.\n\nCutler does volunteer work for young people with developmental disabilities through Vanderbilt's \"Best Buddies\" program.\n\nDuring the 2007 offseason, Cutler started the Jay Cutler Foundation, which partnered with Mile High United Way’s \"Youth Success Initiative\" to help at-risk youth overcome obstacles and graduate from high school.\n\nOn May 1, 2008, Cutler announced that he had been diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes and needs daily insulin shots. He is responding well with the insulin treatments.\n\nCutler works with Dedicated to Diabetes, which is a Denver-based organization that aims to improve public knowledge about diabetes.\n\nFor the 2009 season, Cutler teamed up with Eli Lilly and Company in a campaign called \"Touchdowns For Diabetes\". For every touchdown pass Cutler threw during the 2009 season, Lilly sent a child to diabetes camp by donating $1,000 to the ADA’s “Camp Scholarship” fund—roughly the cost of providing tuition for one child to attend a week of diabetes camp. For every pass Cutler completed in 2009, Lilly donated $100 to the ADA Camp Scholarship fund to allow even more kids the chance to attend camp the following summer.\n\nIn 2012, Cutler visited Perspectives Charter School in Chicago, and talked about diabetes awareness.\n\nAn animated representation of Cutler briefly appeared in the \"South Park\" episode, \"Guitar Queer-O.\" The show is set in Colorado, and the characters are avid Broncos fans. Two characters, Stan and Kyle, meet Cutler and say, \"Nice to meet you. I mean, you kinda suck, but my dad says you might be good some day.\" Cutler himself later responded to the episode, saying, \"It was cool. I thought it was funny. They can make fun of me if they want to.\"\n\nCutler, along with former Broncos tight end Tony Scheffler and former Broncos backup quarterback Preston Parsons, took part in an episode of \"Oprah's Big Give\" filmed in Denver in 2007. The episode aired on ABC on March 9, 2008.\n\nIn 2011, after the Bears lost five straight games while Cutler was out with a thumb injury, Chicago recording artist Magic 1 recorded \"Cutty Come Back\", a parody of the song \"Baby Come Back\".\n\nAn internet meme, called \"Smokin' Jay Cutler\", portrays pictures of Cutler in an apathetic state with a cigarette photoshopped into his mouth. Cutler commented he is aware of the meme and \"gets a kick out of that\". Aaron Rodgers of the Green Bay Packers performed a smoking gesture to reference the meme during a 38–14 win over the Bears in 2014.\n\nIn 2013 Cutler played himself in an episode of the comedy show \"The League\", alongside his wife, Kristin Cavallari, who appeared in one other episode of the show.\n\nCutler supported Presidential Candidate Mitt Romney in 2012 and then-Presidential Candidate Donald Trump in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "3242608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3242608", "title": "John Kelsey (cryptanalyst)", "text": "John Kelsey (cryptanalyst)\n\nJohn Kelsey is a cryptographer who works at NIST. His research interests include cryptanalysis and design of symmetric cryptography primitives (block ciphers, stream ciphers, cryptographic hash functions, MACs), analysis and design of cryptographic protocols, cryptographic random number generation, electronic voting, side-channel attacks on cryptography implementations, and anonymizing communications systems. He previously worked at Certicom and Counterpane Internet Security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23820387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23820387", "title": "John Sutherland (Canadian senator)", "text": "John Sutherland (Canadian senator)\n\nJohn Sutherland (August 21, 1821 – April 27, 1899) was a Manitoba political figure. \nFarmer, Senator.\n\nHe was born in Point Douglas in what was then the Red River Colony and was educated at St. John's College\n\nFollowing the flood of 1852, he moved to East Kildonan where he operated a general store and farmed.\n\nIn 1866 he was appointed to the Council of Assiniboia which had been created by the Hudson's Bay Company to govern the territory until it was dissolved in 1870.\n\nDuring the Red River Rebellion, Sutherland was a leader of the \"loyalists\" and was a delegate to the Council of Forty in 1870. In February 1870, the Provisional Government of the Red River Colony appointed Sutherland Collector of Customs. When Manitoba entered Canadian Confederation on July 15, 1870, Sutherland was appointed the first High Sheriff of Manitoba and held the office until December 1871 when he was appointed to the Senate of Canada by Sir John A. Macdonald where he sat as an Independent Conservative until his death.\n\nIn his later life, Sutherland helped found Manitoba College.\n\n"}
{"id": "39546664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39546664", "title": "Julián García Vargas", "text": "Julián García Vargas\n\nJulián García Vargas (born 1945) is a Spanish economist and socialist politician who served in different cabinets of Spain.\n\nGarcia was born in Madrid in 1945. He received a degree in economic sciences from the Universidad Complutense de Madrid in 1968.\n\nGarcia is an economist and healthcare expert by profession. He is a member of the Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE). He began his career in private sector and then joined public sector where he worked until 1986.\n\nHe was appointed health minister on 26 July 1986 in the cabinet led by the then prime minister Felipe Gonzales. Garcia was in office until March 1991. He is considered to be one of the three Spanish health ministers who significantly improved health-care system of the country. He was appointed defense minister on 12 March 1991 in a cabinet reshuffle. He retained his post in the July 1993 reshuffle. However, Garcia resigned from office on 2 July 1995 due to press reports revealing that the military secret services (CESED) had been spying on individuals and public figures. Gustavo Suarez Pertierra succeeded Garcia as defense minister in a cabinet reshuffle. \n\nAfter leaving office he served as the special envoy of the European Union in Mostar (Bosnia) from November 1995 to April 1996 for the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. He was the president of the Spanish Association of Defense Technology, Aeronautics and Space Administration (TEDAE) until his resignation in June 2013. He is the president of the Spanish Atlantic Association. He has been board member of several companies.\n"}
{"id": "2348817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348817", "title": "Kalasha-mun", "text": "Kalasha-mun\n\nKalasha ( \"Kalashamondr\") is an Indo-European language in the Indo-Aryan branch spoken by the Kalash people, further classified as a Dardic language in the Chitral group. The Kalasha language is phonologically atypical because it contrasts plain, long, nasal and retroflex vowels as well as combinations of these (Heegård & Mørch 2004).\n\nKalasha is spoken by the Kalash people who reside in the remote valleys of Bumburet, Birir and Rumbur, which are west of Ayun, which is ten miles down the river from Chitral Town, high in the Hindu Kush mountains in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The Kalash have their own religion, with gods and goddesses. There are an estimated 5,000 speakers of Kalasha.\n\nKalasha should not be confused with the nearby Nuristani language Waigali (Kalasha-ala). According to Badshah Munir Bukhari, a researcher on the Kalash, \"Kalasha\" is also the ethnic name for the Nuristani inhabitants of a region southwest of the Kalasha Valleys, in the Waygal and middle Pech Valleys of Afghanistan's Nuristan Province. The name \"Kalasha\" seems to have been adopted for the Kalash people by the Kalasha speakers of Chitral from the Nuristanis of Waygal, who for a time expanded up to southern Chitral several centuries ago. However, there is no close connection between the Indo-Aryan language Kalasha-mun (Kalasha) and the Nuristani language Kalasha-ala (Waigali), which descend from different branches of the Indo-Iranian languages.\n\nEarly scholars to have done work on Kalasha include the 19th-century orientalist Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner and the 20th-century linguist Georg Morgenstierne. More recently, studies have been undertaken by Elena Bashir and several others. The development of practical literacy materials has been associated with the Kalasha linguist Taj Khan Kalash.\n\nOf all the languages in the subcontinent, Kalasha is likely the most conservative, along with the nearby western Dardic language Khowar. In a few cases, Kalasha is even more conservative than Khowar, e.g. in retaining voiced aspirate consonants, which have disappeared from most other Dardic languages.\n\nSome of the typical retentions of sounds and clusters (and meanings) are seen in the following list. However, note some common New Indo-Aryan and Dardic features as well.\n\nSet out below is the phonology of Kalasha:\n\nAs with other Dardic languages, the phonemic status of the breathy voiced series is debatable. Some analyses are unsure of whether they are phonemic or simply lexical—i.e., clusters of consonants with /h/.\n\nThe phonemes /x ɣ q/ are found in loanwords.\n\nThe following table compares Kalash words to their cognates in other Indo-Aryan languages.\n\nExamples of conservative features in Kalasha and Khowar are (note, NIA = New Indo-Aryan, MIA = Middle Indo-Aryan, OIA = Old Indo-Aryan):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24717078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24717078", "title": "Lilia Cuntapay", "text": "Lilia Cuntapay\n\nLilia Cuntapay (September 16, 1935 – August 20, 2016) was a Filipina actress whose debut role was in the Filipino horror film series \"Shake Rattle and Roll\" in 1991. Thereafter, she was dubbed the \"Queen of Philippine Horror Movies\" due to her roles in many subsequent horror films. She found acclaim for her first leading role, in the film \"Six Degrees of Separation from Lilia Cuntapay\", which won her an award as Best Actress in the 2011 CinemaOne Originals Digital Film Festival. One of Cuntapay's final TV appearances was in the teleserye \"Ang Probinsyano\".\n\nCuntapay was born in the Cabiraoan village of Gonzaga, Cagayan, on September 16, 1935. After she earned her BS degree in Education, she taught in the primary school levels in Tuguegarao.\nAfter Cuntapay stopped teaching, she ventured into the buy-and-sell trade. She also worked in various office staff-level positions in the National Police Commission (NAPOLCOM).\n\nCuntapay was among the 40 actors trained in the first batch of acting workshops conducted by Lori Reyes and Peque Gallaga for LVN Pictures.\n\nIn 1991, Cuntapay played the spooky nanny of Kris Aquino's character in \"Shake Rattle & Roll 3\", and in the following year she was cast to play a character identified as an \"aswang\" —a role for which she would later be typecast in many subsequent movie appearances, and these earned her the title \"Queen of Philippine Horror Movies.\" After her death a film critic, who assessed the top five performancess of Cuntapay's career, said that in her role for the 1992 film \"Aswang\" :\n\nIn 2009, Cuntapay appeared as an albularyo in the ABS-CBN afternoon TV series \"Precious Hearts Romances Presents: Bud Brothers\". She was featured in the \"Kapuso Mo, Jessica Soho\" 2009 Halloween Special. She appeared as Rosanna, a role which she shared with Maricar Reyes, in the \"Midnight DJ\" episode named \"Kwentas ng Mangkukulam\". Cuntapay was also cast as Miley Cyrus in \"Lokomoko High\"'s spoof of the \"Party in the USA\" music video. At the end of the year, she had a minor role in the film \"Nobody, Nobody But... Juan\" — an entry to the 2009 Metro Manila Film Festival.\n\nIn 2010, Cuntapay played an old lady in \"The Last Prince\" and a fairy disguised as an old lady in the \"Inday Bote\" episode of \"Wansapanataym\". The following year, she played Upeng in the mini-series \"Sa Ngalan ng Ina\", the first offering of TV5's \"TV5 Miniserye\" series in the latter part of 2011.\n\nCuntapay played a fictionalized version of herself in the indie mockumentary \"Six Degrees of Separation from Lilia Cuntapay\"—described as a bittersweet fictional account on Cuntapay's life as a Philippine showbiz extra, an entry to the 2011 Cinema One Originals and directed by Antoinette H. Jadaone. The film won six awards in the 2011 Cinema One Originals Digital Film Festival, including a Best Actress award for Cuntapay.\n\nCuntapay's last film appearance was \"My Bebe Love\" in 2015, which was an entry in the 2015 Metro Manila Film Festival. Cuntapay's final TV show appearance was in the action series \"Ang Probinsyano\".\n\nCuntapay never married but adopted 3 children: Gilmore, Magdalena and Elma.\n\nOn August 5, 2016, it was confirmed that Cuntapay suffered from a spinal cord illness and that she was unable to walk. She sought help from her friends and colleagues in the film industry to be able to raise money for her treatment. On August 20, at about 6 a.m, Cuntapay died in her son's home at Barangay Tartarabang in Pinili, Ilocos Norte; she was 80.\n"}
{"id": "24757374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24757374", "title": "List of The Amazing Race (Latin America) contestants", "text": "List of The Amazing Race (Latin America) contestants\n\nThis is a list of contestants who have appeared on the television series, \"The Amazing Race\", previously known as \"The Amazing Race en Discovery Channel\". Contestants with a pre-existing relationship form a team and race across Latin America against other teams to claim a grand prize of US$250,000. In total, 110 contestants have appeared in the series.\n\nThe presented information was accurate at the time of filming.\n\n"}
{"id": "43472976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43472976", "title": "Liu Shaoqi", "text": "Liu Shaoqi\n\nLiu Shaoqi ( ; ; 24 November 189812 November 1969) was a Chinese revolutionary, politician, and theorist. He was Chairman of the NPC Standing Committee from 1954 to 1959, First Vice Chairman of the Communist Party of China from 1956 to 1966 and Chairman (President) of the People's Republic of China, China's \"de jure\" head of state, from 1959 to 1968, during which he implemented policies of economic reconstruction in China.\n\nFor 15 years, President Liu was the third most powerful man in China, behind only Chairman Mao Zedong and Premier Zhou Enlai. Originally groomed as Mao's successor, Liu antagonized him in the early 1960s before the Cultural Revolution, and from 1966 onward was criticized, then purged, by Mao. Liu disappeared from public life in 1968 and was labelled the \"commander of China's bourgeoisie headquarters\", China's foremost \"capitalist-roader\", and a traitor to the revolution.\n\nHe died under harsh treatment in late 1969, but was posthumously rehabilitated by Deng Xiaoping's government in 1980 and granted a national memorial service.\n\nLiu was born into a moderately rich peasant family in Huaminglou village, Ningxiang, Hunan province; his ancestral hometown is located at Jishui County, Jiangxi. He attended Ningxiang Zhusheng Middle School (), and was recommended to attend a class in Shanghai to prepare for studying in Russia. In 1920, he and Ren Bishi joined a Socialist Youth Corps; the next year, Liu was recruited to study at the Comintern's University of the Toilers of the East in Moscow.\n\nHe joined the newly formed Communist Party of China (CPC) in 1921. The next year he returned to China, and as secretary of the All-China Labor Syndicate led several railway workers' strikes, in the Yangzi Valley and at Anyuan on the Jiangxi-Hunan border.\n\nIn 1925, Liu became a member of the Guangzhou-based All-China Federation of Labor Executive Committee. During the next two years he led numerous political campaigns and strikes in Hubei and Shanghai. He worked with Li Lisan in Shanghai in 1925, organizing Communist activity following the May Thirtieth Incident. After his work in Shanghai, Liu traveled to Wuhan. He was briefly arrested in Changsha and then returned to Guangzhou to help organize the 16-month-long Canton-Hong Kong strike.\n\nHe was elected to the Party's Central Committee in 1927, and was appointed to the head of its Labor Department. Liu returned to work at the Party headquarters in Shanghai in 1929, and was named Secretary of the Manchurian Party Committee in Fengtian. In 1930 and 1931, he attended the Third and Fourth Plenums of the Sixth Central Committee, and was elected to the Central Executive Committee (i.e., Politburo) of the Chinese Soviet Republic in 1931 or 1932. Later in 1932, he left Shanghai and traveled to the Jiangxi Soviet.\n\nLiu became the Party Secretary of Fujian Province in 1932. He accompanied the Long March in 1934 at least as far as the crucial Zunyi Conference, but was then sent to the so-called \"White Areas\" (areas controlled by the Kuomintang) to reorganize underground activities in northern China, centered around Beijing and Tianjin. He became Party Secretary in North China in 1936, leading the anti-Japanese movements in that area with the assistance of Peng Zhen, An Ziwen, Bo Yibo, Ke Qingshi, Liu Lantao, and Yao Yilin. Liu ran the Central Plains Bureau in 1939; and, in 1941, the Central China Bureau. Some Japanese sources have alleged that the activities of his organization sparked the Marco Polo Bridge Incident in July 1937, which gave Japan the excuse to launch the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nIn 1937, Liu traveled to the Communist base at Yanan; in 1941, he became a political commissar of the New Fourth Army. He was elected as one of five CPC Secretaries at the Seventh National Party Congress in 1945. After that Congress, he became the supreme leader of all Communist forces in Manchuria and northern China, a stature frequently overlooked by historians.\n\nLiu became the Vice Chairman of the Central People's Government in 1949. In 1954, China adopted a new constitution at the first National People's Congress (NPC); at the Congress's first session, he was elected chairman of the Congress's Standing Committee, a position he held until the second NPC in 1959. From 1956 until his downfall in 1966, he ranked as the First Vice Chairman of the Communist Party of China.\n\nLiu's work focused on party organizational and theoretical affairs. He was an orthodox Soviet-style Communist, and favored state planning and the development of heavy industry. He elaborated upon his political and economic beliefs in his writings. His best known works include \"How to be a Good Communist\" (1939), \"On the Party\" (1945), and \"Internationalism and Nationalism\" (1952).\n\nLiu spoke very strongly in favour of the Great Leap Forward at the Eighth CPC National Congress in May 1958. At this Congress Liu stood together with Deng Xiaoping and Peng Zhen in support of Mao's policies against those who were more critical, such as Chen Yun and Zhou Enlai.\n\nAs a result, Liu gained influence within the party; in April 1959, he succeeded Mao as President of the People's Republic of China. However, Liu began to voice indications of concern about the outcomes of the Great Leap in the August 1959 Lushan Plenum. In order to correct the mistakes of the Great Leap Forward, Liu and Deng led economic reforms that bolstered their prestige among the party apparatus and the national populace. Once, he said to Mao: \"People write books about cannibalism!\" The economic policies of Deng and Liu were notable for being more moderate than Mao's radical ideas.\n\nLiu was publicly acknowledged as Mao's chosen successor in 1961; however, by 1962 his opposition to Mao's policies had led Mao to mistrust him. After Mao succeeded in restoring his prestige during the 1960s, Liu's eventual downfall became \"inevitable\". Liu's position as the second-most powerful leader of the CPC contributed to Mao's rivalry with him at least as much as Liu's political beliefs or factional allegiances in the 1960s, indicating that Liu's later persecution was the result of a power struggle that went beyond the goals and well-being of either China or the Party.\n\nBy 1966, few senior leaders in China questioned the need for a widespread reform to combat the growing problems of corruption and bureaucratisation within the Party and the government. With the goal of reforming the government to be more efficient and true to the Communist ideal, Liu himself chaired the enlarged Politburo meeting that officially began the Cultural Revolution. However, Liu and his political allies quickly lost control of the Cultural Revolution soon after it was called, when Mao used the movement to progressively monopolize political power and to destroy his perceived enemies.\n\nWhatever its other causes, the Cultural Revolution, declared in 1966, was overtly pro-Maoist, and gave Mao the power and influence to purge the Party of his political enemies at the highest levels of government. Along with closing China's schools and universities, and Mao's exhortations to young Chinese to randomly destroy old buildings, temples, and art, and to attack their teachers, school administrators, party leaders, and parents, the Cultural Revolution also increased Mao's prestige so much that entire villages adopted the practice of offering prayers to Mao before every meal.\n\nIn both national politics and Chinese popular culture, Mao established himself as a demigod accountable to no one, purging any that he suspected of opposing him and directing the masses and Red Guards \"to destroy virtually all state and party institutions\". After the Cultural Revolution was announced, most of the most senior members of the CPC who had voiced any hesitation in following Mao's direction, including Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping, were removed from their posts almost immediately; and, with their families, subjected to mass criticism and humiliation.\n\nLiu and Deng, along with many others, were denounced as \"capitalist roaders\". Liu was labeled as a \"traitor\" and \"the biggest capitalist roader in the Party\"; he was displaced as Party Deputy Chairman by Lin Biao in July 1966. By 1967, Liu and his wife Wang Guangmei were placed under house arrest in Beijing. Liu was removed from all his positions and expelled from the Party in October 1968. After his arrest, Liu disappeared from public view.\n\nLiu was beaten regularly at public denunciation meetings after his arrest in 1967. He was denied medicine for his diabetes, by then a long-term illness, and for pneumonia, which he developed after his arrest. Liu was eventually given treatment only when Jiang Qing feared he would die; she desired that Liu be kept alive to serve as a \"living target\" during the Ninth Party Congress in 1969.\n\nAt the Congress, Liu was denounced as a traitor and an enemy agent. Zhou Enlai read the Party verdict that Liu was \"a criminal traitor, enemy agent and scab in the service of the imperialists, modern revisionists and the Kuomintang reactionaries\". Liu's conditions did not improve after he was denounced in the Congress, and he died soon afterward.\n\nIn a memoir written by Liu's principal physician, he disputed the alleged medical maltreatment of Liu during his last days. According to Dr. Gu Qihua, there was a dedicated medical team in charge of treating Liu's illness; between July 1968 and October 1969, Liu had seven total occurrences of pneumonia due to his deteriorating immune system, and there had been a total of 40 group consultations by top medical professionals regarding the treatment of this disease. Liu was closely monitored daily by the medical team, and they made the best effort given the adverse circumstance. He died of illness on November 12, 1969, and was cremated next day.\n\nIn February 1980, two years after Deng Xiaoping came to power, the Fifth Plenum of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China issued the \"Resolution on the Rehabilitation of Comrade Liu Shaoqi\". The resolution declared Liu's ouster to be unjust and removed the labels of \"renegade, traitor and scab\" that had been attached to him at the time of his death. It also declared him to be \"a great Marxist and proletarian revolutionary\" and recognized him as one of the principal leaders of the Party. Lin Biao was blamed for \"concocting false evidence\" against Liu, and for working with the Gang of Four to subject him to \"political frame-up and physical persecution\". A high-profile national memorial ceremony was held for Liu on May 17, 1980, and his ashes were scattered into the sea at Qingdao in accordance with his last wishes.\n\nLiu married five times, including He Baozhen (何宝珍) and Wang Guangmei (王光美).\nHis third wife Xie Fei (谢飞) came from Wenchang, Hainan and was one of the few women on the 1934 Long March.\nHis wife at the time of his death in 1969, Wang Guangmei, was thrown into prison by Mao Zedong during the Cultural Revolution; she was subjected to harsh conditions in solitary confinement for more than a decade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49856971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49856971", "title": "Lois K. Alexander Lane", "text": "Lois K. Alexander Lane\n\nLois K. Alexander-Lane (born Lois Marie Kindle; 11 June 1916 - 29 September 2007) was an African American fashion designer and founded the Black Fashion Museum in 1979.\n\nAlexander-Lane was born in Little Rock, Arkansas.\n\nAlexander-Lane received her master's degree at New York University in 1963, she proposed a thesis on the historic role of African Americans in Manhattan retailing; her professor responded by saying African Americans played no such role. Her resulting thesis—and later her life's work—proved otherwise.\n\nThe Black Fashion Museum first opened in 1979 in Harlem, originally established in Harlem on West 126th Street that now houses the William J. Clinton Foundation. The museum relocated to Washington, D.C. in 1994 to a historic row house at 2007 Vermont Ave. NW.\n\nAlexander-Lane eventually published her own book, Blacks in the History of Fashion in 1982. Alexander-Lane died in 2007 at the age of 91. The Black Fashion Museum collection was donated to the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in 2007 by her daughter Joyce Bailey.\n\n\"The Black Fashion Museum collection was originally stored in a two-story row house on Vermont Avenue in Washington, D.C. The collection comprises more than 700 garments, 300 accessories, and 60 boxes of archival material collected by Alexander-Lane throughout her life. The research collection—one of the largest and rarest of its kind—includes a dress sewn by Rosa Parks shortly before her famous arrest in Montgomery, Ala.; a beige-patterned skirt worn by an enslaved child in Leesburg, Va.; the original Tin Man costume designed by Geoffrey Holder for the 1975 Broadway musical, The Wiz.\"\n\n\"Clothing and bonnets worn by slaves in the mid-1800s appear alongside an elaborately constructed opera cape made by a former slave. Other items include gowns by Ann Lowe, a pioneering African American designer whose patrons included the Rockefellers, the Du Ponts, the Vanderbilts, and Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy. 'The objects not only tell the story of black fashion,' Moresi says, 'but of the women and men who created them, wore them and held on to them for years.' \"\n"}
{"id": "603583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603583", "title": "Marc Summers", "text": "Marc Summers\n\nMarc Summers (born Marc Berkowitz; November 11, 1951) is an American television personality, comedian, game show host, producer, and talk show host. He is best known for hosting \"Double Dare\" for Nickelodeon, \"Unwrapped\" for Food Network, and recently he was Executive Producer for both \"Dinner Impossible\" and \"Restaurant Impossible\" also for Food Network.\n\nSummers was born Marc Berkowitz in Indianapolis, Indiana. He attended Westlane Middle School and North Central High School in Indianapolis and Grahm Junior College in Boston, Massachusetts. His early careers were as a radio disc jockey and a stand-up comedian; though he held various television production jobs before Summers' career was boosted in 1986, when Nickelodeon hired him as the host of \"Double Dare\". \"Double Dare\" was syndicated within two years and had a brief broadcast network run in prime time as \"Fox Family Double Dare\" in 1988. The show's popularity led to other hosting jobs including the syndicated \"Couch Potatoes\" in 1989, and Nickelodeon's \"What Would You Do?\" in 1991. GSN chose him to host its original program \"WinTuition\" in 2002. He also had a rare dramatic performance in the Nickelodeon-produced Halloween program \"Mystery Magical Special\", which also highlighted his skills as a stage magician. Summers also made celebrity guest rounds on other game shows including \"Scrabble\", \"Super Password\", \"Talk About\", \"Lingo\", \"To Tell the Truth\", \"Win, Lose or Draw\", and \"Hollywood Squares\".\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Summers appeared on television talk shows, including a stint on ABC television's \"Home Show\". After \"Double Dare's\" cancellation in 1993, Summers co-hosted \"Our Home\", a daily talk show aimed at homemakers, on Lifetime. Summers left \"Our Home\" after a couple of seasons to co-host another Lifetime talk show, \"Biggers & Summers\".\n\nOn March 28, 2008, the Communication and Journalism Club of Coastal Carolina University presented Summers with the first annual Peach Cobbler Award and declared that day as \"Marc Summers Day\". The Peach Cobbler Award was modeled after Harvard's Hasty Pudding Award. The Peach Cobbler Award recognizes an individual and their accomplishments in the communication field. After the ceremony, Summers hosted a mock version of \"Double Dare\" on the university's campus.\n\nDuring an interview with Dr. Eric Hollander on \"Biggers & Summers\", Summers revealed that he has obsessive compulsive disorder. Summers went public about his condition on various television shows, including \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and \"The Today Show\". In 1999, Summers produced a VHS video box set with Hollander about his experience, called \"Everything in Its Place: My Trials and Triumphs with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder\". Summers also participated in a series of VHS videos for Freedom from Fear, a non-profit organization with the goal of addressing anxiety disorders and other related behavioral disorders. Despite his OCD, he was able to interact fully with his fans and contestants on \"Double Dare\" to the point of even allowing himself to get slimed and shaking hands with contestants. Going public with his OCD cost Summers a job as host of a \"Hollywood Squares\" revival, and he was replaced by Tom Bergeron.\n\nIn August 2012, Summers suffered severe head injuries in an accident in a Philadelphia taxicab equipped with a partition. Summers said, \"Everything on the left side [of my face] from my eye socket down was just wiped out. My eye socket got all swollen. I'm having trouble seeing completely out of the left eye ... There's lots of VCR parts in my face. I was pretty lucky that I didn't have brain damage.\"\n\nIn a 2015 interview on the Philadelphia-based \"Preston and Steve\" radio show (WMMR), Summers revealed that 6 years before, in 2009, he had \"stomach problems\" and had been in a lot of pain. Exploratory surgery revealed that he had chronic lymphatic leukemia. The initial doctor recommended chemotherapy, but fearing the pain and illness involved, Summers sought the opinion of another oncologist in Chicago. The oncologist promptly misdiagnosed him with mantle cell lymphoma and told him that he only had 6 months to live. Summers went back to his initial doctor in a panic; ultimately the original diagnosis of chronic lymphatic leukemia was confirmed. Chemotherapy would go on for the next 2 years for him, which he described as \"brutal\". Summers has had PET scans ever since his chemo finished, and as of 2016, is in remission. On \"Preston and Steve\" on April 10, 2018, Summers discussed flying to the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center from his home in Santa Barbara for further treatment.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Summers continued work on television shows, each with varying success. He created and hosted the short-lived children's game show \"Pick Your Brain\", co-hosted \"Great Day America\" on the PAX Network, produced \"I Can't Believe You Said That\", and hosted \"It's a Surprise\" on Food Network.\n\nSummers returned to Nickelodeon in 2000 as the executive consultant for \"Double Dare 2000\", an updated version of his original show. Two years later, he was the executive producer for another Nickelodeon resurrection, \"Wild and Crazy Kids\".\n\nHe returned to television as the host of more shows, including \"History IQ\" with his old announcer Harvey on the History Channel; the Food Network series \"Unwrapped\"; the \"Unwrapped\" spin-off game show, \"Trivia Unwrapped\"; and the Game Show Network series \"WinTuition\". In 2005, Summers became the host of Food Network's reality series \"The Next Food Network Star\". Summers joined Chef Guy Fieri as co-host of Food Network's \"Ultimate Recipe Showdown\" in 2008. In late 2006, Sony Pictures Television and KingWorld planned a new game show called \"Combination Lock\", with Summers hosting the first pilot. It was to be paired with a revival of the classic game show, \"The Joker's Wild\". However, a deal couldn't be reached by KingWorld and station groups. Off the screen, Summers has been involved as an executive producer on the Food Network's \"\" and \".\" Summers currently splits his time between homes in Los Angeles and Philadelphia where his company Marc Summers Productions has a branch.\n\nSummers has hosted stage versions of \"The Price Is Right\" and credits Bob Barker and \"The Price Is Right\" for helping him pursue a game-show career. Summers was a young page at CBS when \"The Price Is Right\" premiered with \"The Joker's Wild\" and \"Gambit\" in 1972, and he often asked advice of Barker, Jack Barry and Wink Martindale—the shows' respective hosts—about a hosting career. He claims it's the best possible education and training in the game show field, and it was during this time that Summers got his first on-air experience, as a fill-in announcer on \"The Joker's Wild\".\n\nSummers served as host of \"Drunk Double Dare\" during Drunk Day, an annual episode of the Philadelphia-based Preston and Steve radio show on WMMR, held directly before the Fourth of July weekend. The show reunited Summers with his \"Double Dare\" cohorts John Harvey and Robin Marrella. He has also hosted \"Dunkel Dare\" during the annual Beer Week in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nSummers appears in the Good Charlotte music video for their song \"Last Night\", which uses \"Family Double Dare\" as the motif for the video. He has also played himself on \"The Cleveland Show\", \"Robot Chicken\", \"Workaholics\", and \"Sanjay & Craig\", and appeared in special segments on ABC's \"The Chew\".\n\nHe is the subject and executive producer of \"On Your Marc\", a documentary that chronicles his life and development of his one-man theater show, featuring interviews with Neil Patrick Harris, Ryan Seacrest, Guy Fieri and Seth Green, and was directed by Mathew Klickstein. He hosted a number of early preview screenings and live events as part of a nationwide promotional tour of the film in October 2017.\n\nSummers returned to host a 30th Anniversary of \"Double Dare\" at the 2016 San Diego Comic-Con International. Summers also appeared in a commemorative half-hour special in honor of the show's 30th anniversary that aired on Nickelodeon on November 23, 2016.\n\nSummers currently provides color commentary on along with his vast knowledge of the game on the revival of \"Double Dare\" with Liza Koshy, now produced by RTL Group / FremantleMedia, and serves as executive producer.\n\n"}
{"id": "17087343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17087343", "title": "Mary K. Shell", "text": "Mary K. Shell\n\nMary Katherine Jaynes Shell, previously Mary Hosking, usually known as Mary K. Shell (February 9, 1927 – June 14, 2018), was an American politician and the first woman to have served as mayor of Bakersfield, California (1981–1985) and only the second woman to have served on the Kern County Board of Supervisors (1985–1997). At the time of her retirement from public office, Shell was termed by the \"Bakersfield Californian\" as \"the most popular politician in Kern County history.\" She was the widow of Joseph C. Shell, Sr. (1918–2008), a former Republican minority leader of the California State Assembly from Los Angeles, Richard M. Nixon's intraparty opponent for governor in 1962, and a lawmaker who fought to bring water to southern California in the 1960s.\n\nShell was the younger of two daughters born in Bakersfield to Walter Jaynes (1897–1972) and the former Mary Ellen Young (1897–1990). Shell's paternal grandfather, Harris E. Jaynes, arrived in Bakersfield about 1900 to work as a welder for the Southern Pacific Railroad. He opened a welding shop which evolved into H. E. Jaynes and Son, an automobile repair business on Chester Street. Mary K., also called \"Miki\" by her family and friends, worked in the shop, doing chores traditionally associated with males. She recalls servicing a Buick when news of the D-Day landings in Normandy of June 6, 1944 were announced by radio. She demonstrated a youthful interest in current events, journalism, and politics. She was the editor of the student newspapers at Washington Junior High School and East Bakersfield High School. She was also a song leader and secretary to the student council. Shell said that so many extracurricular activities kept her from being an \"A\" student.\nShell attended Bakersfield College, a public community college, but dropped out a semester shy of receiving her associate's degree. She is a donor to the college and a member of its foundation board. Instead she worked part-time at the \"Bakersfield Californian\" newspaper, where at the age of seventeen she had been the \"cub\" reporter on the farm beat. She soon learned that city officials were making most decisions over lunch at the Hotel El Tejon (now the site of the Bank of America building in Bakersfield) and then routinely approving what had been decided at council meetings. This was long before the era of \"open meetings\" laws, known in California as the Ralph M. Brown Act. Shell had taken flying lessons while she worked as a flight dispatcher at La Cresta Airfield near the Panorama Bluffs of Bakersfield.\n\nIn 1945, at the age of eighteen, she married Army Air Corps Lt.Don Sticker, but the couple divorced in 1947. She married Richard \"Dick\" Hosking in 1948, by whom she had three children: Geoffrey Richard Hosking (born 1951), Timothy William Hosking (1952–1979), and Meredith Katherine Hosking (1959–1981). The couple lived briefly in the San Jose area, where Hosking attended Santa Clara Law School, and she worked at the San Jose Airport. They soon returned to Bakersfield, and she became a secretary to a cotton cooperative. Dick served on the Bakersfield City Council from 1965–1969. Mary and Dick separated in 1967 and divorced two years later. In 1970 she wed Joe Shell, a distinguished flight instructor during World War II who, like her, held a pilot's license. When Joe ran for California Governor in 1962, she helped in his campaign in Kern County. Mary was later a reporter-photographer and then, the editor, of the \"News Bulletin\", a semi-weekly newspaper serving metropolitan Bakersfield.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1980, Mary K. Shell was a correspondent based in the state capital of Sacramento for \"The Californian\" and the syndicated Capitol News Service. She covered the legislature and other state agencies: \"That was before we even had fax machines,\" she recalls. She wrote her weekly column on a typewriter and shipped it to Bakersfield on a Greyhound bus. Shell's old job was discontinued by the newspaper in 2007 because of financial reasons. Shell won honors: the 1972 Excellence in Reporting Award from the California Trial Lawyers Association and the 1975 California Taxpayers Reporting Award for her revelations about excessive early retirement benefits for legislators, a phenomenon unknown to many California voters. Joe was a lobbyist for oil companies while the couple lived in Sacramento. During that period, they generally made two trips monthly to Bakersfield, where they would move permanently in 1980.\n\nIn 1978, the Shells opened an oil business together and drilled four heavy-oil wells in at the Deer Creek field in Tulare County located adjacent to Kern County. Because the name \"Shell\" could not be used, they called the endeavor Concho Petroleum. They maintained the low-output wells until 1993.\n\nTragedy struck in 1979, when her younger son Tim, at twenty-six, who had fallen into a life of alcohol and despair, died of a drug overdose.\n\nThereafter, Shell decided to run for mayor after three-term incumbent Donald Hart announced that he would not seek reelection. The odds were so against Shell that it was said only Joe Shell actually believed that his wife could prevail against four male candidates. She went on to win the nonpartisan runoff election against former Kern County Sheriff Charles Dodge, who had led in the first round of balloting by only twenty-five votes. Although many campaigns stop their intense efforts on election eve, Shell persisted through election day; her grass roots volunteers walked door to door until the polls closed on election night.\n\nEarly in the term, a second tragedy occurred when daughter Meredith died at the age of twenty-two of cardiac arrest caused by medications. Dick Hosking died thereafter.\n\nAs mayor, Shell promoted civic self-esteem. She reached out to the minority community. She chided NBC \"The Tonight Show\" host Johnny Carson for his reference to \"beautiful downtown Bakersfield\" (Carson also referred to Burbank, though his remarks were not considered malicious). \"I tried to get Johnny Carson to come here and see for himself [the improvements in Bakersfield]. He never made it\", Shell remembers.\n\nA partial list of her accomplishments include:\n\n(1) Founding the Beautiful Bakersfield Committee with an annual awards dinner and the restoration of the community Christmas parade\n\n(2) Establishing a committee of veteran's organizations to build a memorial to Medal of Honor recipient Larry Pierce of Bakersfield and to all from Kern County who served in the Vietnam War. The memorial is located at the county courts building.\n\n(3) Creating the Bakersfield Historical Preservation Commission\n\n(4) Establishing the annual Bakersfield Prayer Breakfast\n\n(5) Serving on the California Local Government Task Force under appointment from Republican Governor George Deukmejian\n\nIn 1985, Shell vacated the office of mayor, having been elected to the first of three four-year terms on the also nonpartisan Kern County Board of Supervisors. As a supervisor, she also served two years as chairman of the agriculture committee of the California State Association of Counties and as a subcommittee chairman of the National Association of Counties Agriculture Committee. She represented Kern County on the San Joaquin Valley air pollution control district. After her tenure as a county supervisor, Shell did consulting work for individuals having difficulty with government bureaucracy and regulations.\n\nIn her first election as supervisor from a predominantly minority district in southeastern Bakersfield, Shell defeated Richard Ybarra, a son-in-law of Hispanic labor organizer Cesar Chavez, 52.4–47.5 percent. She was unopposed in 1988. In 1992, after redistricting, her district became even more prominently Hispanic and Democratic in orientation with the inclusion of the Arvin and Lamont neighborhoods. Shell still polled 61.2 percent of the vote against Ray Gonzales and another candidate. She did not seek a fourth term in 1996, and the position went to Peter \"Pete\" Parra.\n\nWhile in office, she personally hosted many social gatherings and joined constituents in cleaning up litter-strewn lots. Out of office, she did consulting work for individuals and companies having problems with the bureaucracy of government.\n\nWhen asked her most memorable accomplishment in office, Shell replied that it was the diversion of grant funds to establish a lighted soccer field in an underserved area of the city and the coordination undertaken for an American Youth Soccer Organization program. Shell recalls having stopped at McDonald's restaurant one day. A young woman followed her out to say, \"Thank you so much – my brother was headed for trouble. Having the soccer field in our neighborhood made a difference. He joined AYSO and changed his life.\"\n\nIn their later years, Joe and Mary K. Shell became a political \"power couple\" in Bakersfield and were often sought out for advice and friendship by aspiring Republican candidates for office. At the funeral of Joe Shell on April 11, 2008, former Kern County Sheriff Carl Sparks recalled that \"when I ran for sheriff people told me, 'The first thing you gotta do is go see Mary and Joe.' That he was willing to see you at all and talk to you as a person was a privilege.\"\n\nShell was honored through the naming of the Mary K. Shell Journalism Scholarship and the Mary K. Shell Mental Health Facility in Bakersfield. She was a member of the St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Church in Bakersfield.\n"}
{"id": "14239933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14239933", "title": "Members of the Council on Foreign Relations", "text": "Members of the Council on Foreign Relations\n\nThere are two types of Council on Foreign Relations membership: life, and term membership, which lasts for five years and is available to those between the ages of 30 and 36 at the time of their application. Only U.S. citizens (native born or naturalized) and permanent residents who have applied for U.S. citizenship are eligible. A candidate for life membership must be nominated in writing by one Council member and seconded by a minimum of three others (strongly encouraged to be other CFR members).\n\nCorporate membership (250 in total) is divided into three levels: \"Founders\" ($100,000), \"President’s Circle\" ($60,000), and \"Affiliates\" ($30,000). All corporate executive members have opportunities to hear distinguished speakers, such as overseas presidents and prime ministers, chairmen and CEOs of multinational corporations, and US officials and Congressmen. President’s Circle and Founders are also entitled to other benefits, including attendance at small, private dinners or receptions with senior American officials and world leaders.\n\nThe Board of Directors of the Council on Foreign Relations is composed in total of thirty-six officers. Peter G. Peterson and David Rockefeller are Directors Emeriti (Chairman Emeritus and Honorary Chairman, respectively). It also has an International Advisory Board consisting of thirty-five distinguished individuals from across the world.\n\nCFR has several levels of corporate membership: Founders, President's Circles and Affiliates. members were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Source:\" \"The Council on Foreign Relations from 1921 to 1996: Historical Roster of Directors and Officers\"\n"}
{"id": "1204154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1204154", "title": "Military career of Muhammad", "text": "Military career of Muhammad\n\nThe military career of Muhammad lasted for the final ten years of his life when he served as the leader of the \"ummah\", the head of state at Medina.\n\nMuhammad spent his last ten years, from 622 to 632, as the leader of Medina in a state of war with Mecca. Muhammad and his Companions had earlier migrated from Mecca to Medina in what is known as the \"Hijra\". Through sieges and diplomacy, Muhammad and his followers allied with or subdued some of the tribes and cities of the Arabian peninsula in their struggle to overcome the powerful Banu Quraish of Mecca.\n\nThey also sent out parties against Arabic-speaking communities ruled under the Roman Empire. Muhammad was believed by the Muslims to be divinely chosen to spread Islam in the world, and Muhammad ultimately permitted warfare as one aspect of this struggle. After initially refusing to accede to requests by his followers to fight the Meccans for continued persecution and provocation, he eventually proclaimed the revelations of the Quran:\nAfter the first battle of Badr against the Quraysh, he is reported as having said \"We have returned from the lesser Jihad to the greater Jihad (i.e. the struggle against the evil of one's soul).\" John Esposito writes that Muhammad's use of warfare in general was not alien, neither to Arab custom nor to that of the Hebrew prophets, as both believed that God had sanctioned battle with the enemies of the Lord.\n\nUpon arrival in Medina he set about the establishment of a pact known as the Constitution of Medina, to regulate the matters of governance of the city, as well as the extent and nature of inter-community relations, and signatories to it included the Muslims, the Ansar and the various Jewish tribes of Medina.\n\nSignificant clauses of the constitution included the mutual assistance of each other if one signatory were to be attacked by a third party, the resolution that the Muslims would profess their religion and the Jews theirs, as well as the appointment of Muhammad as the leader of the state.\n\nMuslims who did not migrate were subject to increased persecution.\nAnd the threat to the life of both the Ansar and the Muhajireen was such that they were reported as having to sleep by their weapons all night. ‘Abdullah bin Ubay bin Salul, who was the Madinan chief of the tribes ‘Aws and Khazraj and became a Muslim upon Muhammad's arrival, however the sincerity of him being a Muslim is doubted and he was labeled a hypocrite. \n\nSa'd ibn Mua'dh, an Ansar, went to Mecca to learn how to perform the Umrah and there was accosted by Abu Jahl at the Kaaba who threatened he would kill him, had he not been in the company of Omaiya bin Khalaf. Sa‘d then challenged him to commit any such folly if he wanted to court a risk to the Meccan trading caravans.\n\nAs tensions escalated the Muslims began to take defensive measures such as stationing guards around Muhammad and sending out reconnaissance patrols.\n\nThe Caravan raids refer to a series of raids which Muhammad and his Companions participated in. The raids were generally offensive and carried out to gather intelligence or seize the trade goods of Caravans financed by the Quraysh, (such retaliation was explained as being legitimate by saying many Muslims possessions and wealth left behind when they migrated from Mecca were stolen). The Muslims declared that the raids were justified and that God gave them permission to defend against the Meccans' persecution of Muslims.\n\nWith the help of Banu Nadir, the exiled Jewish tribe from Medina, Abu Sufyan, the military leader of the Quraysh mustered a force of 10,000 men. Muhammad was able to prepare a force of about 3,000 men. He had however adopted a new form of defense, unknown in Arabia at that time: Muslims had dug trenches wherever Medina lay open to cavalry attack. The idea is credited to a Persian convert to Islam, Salman. The siege of Medina began on 31 March 627 and lasted for two weeks. Abu Sufyan's troops were unprepared for the fortifications they were confronted with, and after an ineffectual siege, the coalition decided to go home. The Qur'an discusses this battle in verses 9-27 of sura 33, Al-Ahzab.\n\nDuring the Battle of the Trench, the Jewish tribe of Banu Qurayza who were located at the south of Medina were charged with treachery. After the retreat of the coalition, Muslims besieged Banu Qurayza, the remaining major Jewish tribe in Medina. The Banu Qurayza surrendered and all the men were beheaded, apart from a few who converted to Islam, while all the women and children were enslaved. In dealing with Muhammad's treatment of the Jews of Medina, aside from political explanations, western historians and biographers have explained it as \"the punishment of the Medina Jews, who were invited to convert and refused, perfectly exemplify the Quran's tales of what happened to those who rejected the prophets of old.\" F. Peters adds that Muhammad was possibly emboldened by his military successes and also wanted to push his advantage. Economical motivations according to Peters also existed since the poorness of the Meccan migrants was a source of concern for Muhammad. Peters argues that Muhammad's treatment of the Jews of Medina was \"quite extraordinary\" and is \"quite at odds with Muhammad's treatment of the Jews he encountered outside Medina.\" According to Welch, Muhammad's treatment of the three major Jewish tribes brought Muhammad closer to his goal of organizing a community strictly on a religious basis.\n\nBy old custom, during the months of pilgrimage, tribal hostilities stopped and all were free to visit Mecca. In March 628, Muhammad put on the garb of a pilgrim and taking a force and camels for sacrifice, set out for Mecca.\nAccording to the early chronicler Ibn Ishaq, Muhammad took 700 men (Guillaume 1955, p. 500). According to Watt, Muhammad took 1400 to 1600 men (Watt 1957, p. 46).\n\nThe Meccans did not accept the Muslim professions of peaceful intent and sent out an armed party against them. The Muslims evaded them by taking a side route through the hills around Mecca, and then camped outside Mecca, at Hudaybiya. Ibn Ishaq describes a tense period of embassies and counter-embassies, including a bold foray by Uthman ibn Affan into the city of Mecca, where he was temporarily held as a hostage. The Meccans told the Muslims that Uthman had been killed and open warfare seemed imminent.\n\nThen the situation shifted radically. Uthman was revealed to be alive, and the Meccans expressed their willingness to negotiate a truce. Some elements wanted a confrontation, but Muhammad held out for a peaceful resolution.\n\nThe treaty of Hudaybiyyah committed both sides to a ten-year truce. The Muslims were to be allowed to return the next year, to perform the pilgrimage.\n\nFree of the Meccan threat, the Muslims expanded their activities against other oases and tribes. They conquered the rich oasis of Khaybar (see Battle of Khaybar) and sent raiding parties against the Ghatafan, Murrah, Sulaym, and Hawaizin (Watt 1957 pp. 52–53).\n\nLess than two years after the truce of Hudaybiyyah, the truce was broken by a squabble between tribes allied to the Makkans (Meccans) and Medinans. There had long been bad blood between the Khuza'ah and the Banu Bakr bin Abd Manat, and the two groups lined up on opposite sides, the Khuza'ah with the Muslims and the Banu Bakr with the Makkans . Watt (p. 62) says that some of the Quraysh helped the Banu Bakr ambush the Khuza'ah.\n\nShortly afterwards, a Muslim force of 10,000 men headed for Makkah.They camped outside Makkah and the usual round of emissaries and negotiations began. Apparently Abu Sufyan had negotiated, then or earlier, a promise that he and those under him would not be attacked if they surrendered peacefully. A few Makkans from the Makhzum faction, prepared to resist. The Muslims conquered Makkah successfully \n\nOn or near January 11, 630, Muhammad sent four columns of troops into Makkah. Only one column met any resistance. Twenty-eight Makkans were killed and the rest of those opposing the Muslim entry fled. The remaining Makkans surrendered to Muhammad. Some of the Makkans, even those who had been notable for their opposition to Islam, were spared. Ten people were ordered to be killed: Ikrimah ibn Abi-Jahl, Abdullah ibn Saad ibn Abi Sarh, Habbar bin Aswad, Miqyas Subabah Laythi, Huwairath bin Nuqayd, Abdullah Hilal and four women who had been guilty of murder or other offences or had sparked off the war and disrupted the peace.\n\nThe Kaaba was cleansed of all the idols of Arabian gods, such as Hubal, which were placed in it and the area was established as a Muslim sanctuary. While destroying each idol, Muhammad recited which says \"Truth has arrived and falsehood has perished for falsehood is by its nature bound to perish\". However he ordered an icon of Virgin Mary and Baby Jesus which was in the Ka'aba not to be destroyed.{http://www.bliis.org/essay/prophet-muhammad-jesus-marys-icons-kaba/} According to Islamic tradition, the Kaaba was built by Adam as a place of worship, and then later reconstructed by Abraham and Ishmael.\n\nThe sum total of all casualties on all sides in all the battles of Muhammad might be more or less 1,000. A contemporary Islamic scholar, Maulana Wahiduddin Khan, says that \"during the 23-years in which this revolution was completed, 80 military expeditions took place. The Prophet, however, only participated in some 27 of them, and an even smaller number of expeditions actually involved any fighting. 259 Muslims and 759 non-Muslims died in these battles – a total of 1018 dead.\"\n\nHis efforts led to the unification of the Arabian peninsula.\n\nJaved Ahmed Ghamidi writes in Mizan that there are certain directives of the Qur’an pertaining to war which were specific only to Muhammad against Divinely specified peoples of his times (the polytheists and the Israelites and Nazarites of Arabia and some other Jews, Christians, et al.) as a form of Divine punishment—for they had persistently denied the truth of Muhammad's mission even after it had been made conclusively evident to them by Allah through Muhammad, and asked the polytheists of Arabia for submission to Islam as a condition for exoneration and the others for jizya and submission to the political authority of the Muslims for military protection as the dhimmis of the Muslims. Therefore, after Muhammad and his companions, there is no concept in Islam obliging Muslims to wage war for propagation or implementation of Islam, hence now, the only valid reason for war is to end oppression when all other measures have failed. (jihad)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7211036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7211036", "title": "Norman Matloff", "text": "Norman Matloff\n\nNorman Saul Matloff (born December 16, 1948) is an American professor of computer science at the University of California, Davis. He received his Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1975 from the mathematics department at the University of California, Los Angeles under the supervision of Thomas M. Liggett.\n\nMatloff is also prominent for certain political writings. He views the increased use of H-1B visas in the high technology field as an unnecessary practice that harms the prospects of Americans in the field, and was featured in national American media on this topic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "825643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=825643", "title": "Pattie Boyd", "text": "Pattie Boyd\n\nPatricia Anne Boyd (born 17 March 1944) is an English model and photographer. She was one of the leading international models during the 1960s and, with Jean Shrimpton, epitomised the British female \"look\" of the era. Boyd was married to George Harrison and experienced the height of the Beatles' popularity as well as sharing in their embrace of Indian spirituality. She later married and divorced Harrison's friend, guitarist Eric Clapton. Boyd inspired Harrison's songs such as \"If I Needed Someone\", \"Something\" and \"For You Blue\", and Clapton's \"Layla\" and \"Wonderful Tonight\".\nIn August 2007, Boyd published her autobiography \"Wonderful Today\" (titled \"Wonderful Tonight\" in the United States). Her photographs of Harrison and Clapton, titled \"Through the Eye of a Muse\", have been exhibited in Dublin, Sydney, Toronto, Moscow, London, Almaty, Uppsala and throughout the United States.\n\nBoyd was born on 17 March 1944, in Taunton, Somerset, and was the first child to Colin Ian Langdon Boyd and Diana Frances Boyd (née Drysdale). The Boyds moved to West Lothian in Scotland, where her brother, Colin, was born in 1946. They then moved to Guildford, Surrey, where her sister, Jenny Boyd, was born in 1947. Boyd's youngest sister, Paula, was born at a hospital in Nakuru, Kenya, in 1951. The Boyds lived in Nairobi from 1948 to 1953, after her father's discharge from the Royal Air Force. The family returned to England, where Boyd gained two half-brothers, David (b. 1954) and Robert Jr. (b. 1955), as well as two half-sisters, Clare (1962–2018) and Julia (b. 1964).\n\nBoyd attended Hazeldean School in Putney, the St Agnes and St Michael Convent Boarding School in East Grinstead, and St Martha's Convent in Hadley Wood, Hertfordshire. She achieved three GCE O level passes in 1961. She moved to London in 1962 and worked as a shampoo girl at Elizabeth Arden's salon. A client who worked for \"Honey\" magazine then inspired her to begin work as a model.\n\nBoyd began her fashion career in 1962, modelling at first in London and Paris. Among her regular assignments at that time were jobs for the UK edition of \"Vogue\", \"Vanity Fair\", \"Elle\" in France, and \"Honey\", as well as fashion spreads in newspapers such as \"The Daily Telegraph\" and \"The Times\". She was photographed by David Bailey, Terence Donovan and Brian Duffy, among others, and appeared on the cover of British \"Vogue\". Other popular models of the day, such as Twiggy, based their modelling appearance on Boyd. In the description of journalist Tom Hibbert, Boyd and Jean Shrimpton became \"international celebrities\" as the embodiment of the \"British female 'look' – mini-skirt, long, straight hair and wide-eyed loveliness\". This look defined Western fashion for women as a result of the international popularity of the Beatles and other British Invasion musical acts from 1964 onwards.<ref name=\"Hibbert/HistoryOfRock\"> Available at Rock's Backpages (subscription required).</ref> In her autobiography, Boyd recalls being known as the muse to designer Ossie Clark, who used to call some of his designs \"Pattie\".\n\nIn early 1964, Boyd appeared in a television advertising campaign for Smith's crisps, directed by Richard Lester. Lester then cast her as a schoolgirl in the Beatles' 1964 film \"A Hard Day's Night\", where she met and befriended the group's lead guitarist, George Harrison. Boyd's modelling career skyrocketed as a result of her subsequent romantic involvement with Harrison. She recalls that further assignments for \"Vogue\" and \"Vanity Fair\" were the result, along with jobs for \"Tatler\" (with photographer Jeanloup Sieff), more TV commercials, for Smith's and for L'Oréal's Dop shampoo brand, and advertisements in newspaper fashion pages. \n\nBoyd and Harrison were among the leading couples in the Swinging London era, when, according to a 1966 article in the \"Daily Express\", \"actors, pop singers, hairdressers, and models\" were London's new \"privileged class\". UK underground writer Barry Miles later described her as \"by far the most glamorous\" of all the Beatles' wives and girlfriends, while author Shawn Levy writes that, even more so than Jane Asher, the London-born stage actress who was Paul McCartney's girlfriend for much of the 1960s, Boyd epitomised what \"sixties stardom was meant to confer upon its chosen\". Writing in 1966, British fashion designer Mary Quant commented that it had become a requisite for contemporary women to strive \"to look like Pattie Boyd rather than Marlene Dietrich\", adding: \"Their aim is to look childishly young, naïvely unsophisticated, and it takes more sophistication to work out that look than those early would-be sophisticates ever dreamed of.\"\n\nAt the request of Gloria Stavers, Boyd began writing a column, titled \"Patti's Letter from London\", for the American teen magazine \"16\". According to Hibbert: \"She reported on the latest trends in Carnaby Street, informed readers as to what the Beatles and Stones were wearing at the moment, and gave advice on how to turn dark and curly hair straight and blonde.\" However, with Boyd the target of hostility from the Beatles' female fans, Harrison insisted she abandon her career, to ensure their privacy. In July 1968, she and her sister Jenny, who was also a model, opened a boutique in London's fashionable Chelsea Market. They named it \"Jennifer Juniper\" after Donovan's song of the same name. Jenny managed the shop, which sold antiques and other \"objets d'art\", while Boyd was the buyer.\n\nBoyd says she had \"virtually given up\" modelling by the early 1970s. She resumed her career at that time, promoting designs by Ossie Clark. She and Twiggy then did a cover assignment in Milan for Italian \"Vogue\" with photographer Justin de Villeneuve, and, working again with Bailey, Boyd appeared on several covers for British \"Vogue\". In another shoot for the latter magazine, Boyd and her sisters were photographed by Patrick Lichfield.\n\nBoyd began taking photographs of musicians and other friends during the 1960s and was a member of the Royal Photographic Society. In a 2008 interview, she said that it was not until 2004 that she felt \"emotionally ready\" to revisit the images. She also said that her lack of professional status probably made for a more intimate and authentic mood in her work, since her subjects were relaxed in her company.<ref name=\"Balfe/Ent.ie\"></ref> Boyd first exhibited her photos of Harrison and Clapton at the San Francisco Art Exchange on Valentine's Day 2005, in a show titled \"Through the Eye of a Muse\". The exhibition appeared in San Francisco and London during 2006, and in La Jolla, California in 2008. \"Through the Eye of a Muse\" was also shown in Dublin and in Toronto in 2008, and at the Blender Gallery in Sydney and in Almaty, Kazakhstan, in 2009 and 2010.\n\nHer exhibition \"Yesterday and Today: The Beatles and Eric Clapton\" was shown in Santa Catalina Island in California, and at the National Geographic Headquarters in Washington, DC, in 2011.\n\nBoyd became involved in charity work following her separation from Clapton in the late 1980s. In 1991, she co-founded SHARP (Self Help Addiction Recovery Program) with Barbara Bach, the second wife of former Beatle Ringo Starr.\n\nBoyd was in a relationship with photographer Eric Swayne when she met Harrison, on 2 March 1964, and therefore declined his initial date proposal. Several days later, having ended the relationship with Swayne, she accompanied Harrison to a private gentlemen's club called the Garrick Club, chaperoned by the Beatles' manager, Brian Epstein. With the Beatles frequently away on concert tours, she and Harrison subsequently saw each other as often as their professional commitments allowed. In July 1964, Harrison bought Kinfauns, a house in Esher, Surrey, to escape the constant attention of fans in central London, and Boyd soon moved into the house also.\n\nBoyd had her first encounter with LSD in early 1965 when the couple's dentist, John Riley, secretly laced his guests' coffee with the drug during a dinner party at his home. As she was getting ready to leave with Harrison and John and Cynthia Lennon, Riley told them that he had spiked their drinks and tried to persuade them to stay. Outside, Boyd was in an agitated state from the drug and threatened to break a store window, but Harrison pulled her away. Later, when Boyd and her group were in a lift on their way up to the Ad Lib club, they mistakenly believed it was on fire.\n\nThe couple were engaged on 25 December 1965, and married on 21 January 1966 in a ceremony at Epsom register office. In his \"How a Beatle Lives\" profile in the \"Evening Standard\" in March 1966, Harrison stressed the equality of their relationship and credited Boyd with broadening his outlook. In September and October, after the Beatles' final concert tour, Boyd and Harrison spent six weeks in India, as guests of Indian classical musician Ravi Shankar. While in Bombay, as Harrison continued his sitar studies under Shankar's tutelage, Boyd began learning to play the dilruba, a bow-played string instrument. Due to the attention of fans and the press, they left the city with Shankar and stayed on houseboats on Dal Lake in Kashmir. Upon their return to England, Boyd and Harrison continued to adhere to a lifestyle of yoga and vegetarianism, and Boyd received further tuition on the dilruba from Shiv Dayal Batish.\n\nOn 25 June 1967, Boyd was among the crowd of friends who participated in the Beatles' \"Our World\" broadcast of \"All You Need Is Love\". Boyd shared her husband's interest in Eastern mysticism. Having become a member of the Spiritual Regeneration Movement in February 1967, she was keen to meet the movement's leader, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and so suggested that she and Harrison attend his lecture on Transcendental Meditation at the London Hilton on 24 August. Impressed with the Maharishi, Harrison and Boyd, together with the other Beatles and their partners, travelled to a seminar he hosted in Bangor, Wales, the following day. Boyd and her sister Jenny then accompanied Harrison on the Beatles' visit to the Maharishi's ashram in Rishikesh, India, in February 1968. That same year, she told Beatles biographer Hunter Davies that the four Beatles had a bond that neither she nor any other wife could penetrate; she also said she wished that the band would use their fame and influence to publicly further a cause, as Marlon Brando had done on behalf of homeless children. Boyd provided inspiration for several of Harrison's Beatles compositions, including \"I Need You\", \"If I Needed Someone\", \"Love You To\", \"Something\" and \"For You Blue\". In March 1969, as part of the British authorities' intolerant attitude towards the Beatles in the late 1960s, Boyd and Harrison were arrested at Kinfauns for possession of cannabis.\n\nIn March 1970, a month before the Beatles' break-up, Boyd moved with Harrison to Friar Park, a Victorian neo-Gothic mansion in Henley-on-Thames. By this point, Harrison's devotion to Indian spirituality, particularly the Hare Krishna movement, had begun to divide the couple. They were also unsuccessful in starting a family, and Harrison would not consider adoption. Boyd resumed her modelling career in May 1971, in defiance of Harrison's spiritual convictions. In 1973, she had an affair with Faces guitarist Ronnie Wood. Boyd said her decision to leave Harrison in 1974 was based largely upon his repeated infidelities, culminating in his affair with Starr's wife Maureen, which Boyd called \"the final straw\".\n\nAuthor Ian Inglis, discussing Harrison's 1973 song \"So Sad\", describes Boyd as the musician's \"closest companion\" and someone who shared in his \"triumphs and tragedies\". Among these key events, Inglis lists the international Beatlemania phenomenon, the Beatles' decision to retire from live performance, the 1967 Summer of Love, Epstein's death, the creation of Apple Corps, the Beatles' exploration of Indian spirituality, the band's break-up, Harrison's ascendancy as a songwriter and then as a solo artist, and his Bangladesh aid project. The couple's divorce was finalised on 9 June 1977. Boyd's solicitor, Paddy Grafton-Green of the London firm Theodore Goddard, later remarked on the sensitivity shown by each party towards the other, which he found particularly rare in his experience of high-stakes divorces. He said: \"There was no overreacting, no greed or playing with each other's emotions – I wish all divorces were so well handled.\"\n\nIn the late 1960s, Clapton and Harrison became close friends and began writing and recording music together. This is when Clapton fell in love with Boyd. In an effort to satisfy his infatuation, Clapton briefly dated Boyd's sister Paula. His 1970 album with Derek and the Dominos, \"Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs\", was written to proclaim his love for Boyd, particularly the hit song \"Layla\". Clapton drew inspiration from \"The Story of Layla and Majnun\" by Persian writer Nizami, casting himself as the poet driven to madness by his unattainable love. When Boyd rebuffed his advances in late 1970, Clapton descended into heroin addiction and self-imposed exile for three years. Once cured of his addiction in 1974, Clapton again pursued Boyd, who now agreed to leave Harrison. She and Clapton were married in 1979. They remained friendly with Harrison, who took to calling Clapton his \"husband-in-law\".\n\nBoyd soon struggled within the marriage and took to drinking heavily, but these difficulties were masked by her public image with Clapton. He later admitted to being a \"full-blown\" alcoholic who was often violent towards his wife. Boyd left Clapton in April 1987 and divorced him in 1989. Her stated reasons were Clapton's years of alcoholism, as well as his numerous affairs, including one with Italian actress Lory Del Santo. In 1989, her divorce was granted on the grounds of \"infidelity and unreasonable behaviour\". She subsequently suspected that Clapton's pursuit of her when she was married to Harrison \"had more to do\" with the competitive aspect of the two musicians' friendship, and that \"Eric just wanted what George had.\"\n\nIn 2007, \"Rolling Stone\" referred to Boyd as a \"legendary rock muse\" for her role in inspiring the music of Harrison and then Clapton.<ref name=\"RS/SpillsBeans\"></ref> Roger Cormier of \"mental floss\" similarly recognises her as \"one of the most important muses in rock and roll history\". In addition to \"Layla\", she was the inspiration for Clapton's songs \"Bell Bottom Blues\" and \"Wonderful Tonight\".\n\nBoyd met property developer Rod Weston in 1991. The couple were married on 29 April 2015 in a ceremony held at the Register Office in Chelsea Old Town Hall, London. Weston was quoted as saying, \"It's almost our silver anniversary so we thought we had better get on with it.\"\n\nIn August 2007, Headline Review published Boyd's autobiography, titled \"Wonderful Today\" and co-written with journalist and broadcaster Penny Junor.<ref name=\"Meacham/SMH\"></ref> Re-titled \"Wonderful Tonight: George Harrison, Eric Clapton, and Me\" for the US market, the book contains many of Boyd's photographs. At the time, she was said to be looking forward to the idea of her book competing against Clapton's autobiography, which was published concurrently. Boyd carried out interviews to promote the release.\n\nReviewing \"Wonderful Today\" for \"The Daily Telegraph\", Lynn Barber described it as \"absolutely gripping\" and a memoir that \"gives more insight into the weirdness of rock-star life than anything I have ever read\". In the United States, the book debuted at the top of the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list.\n\n"}
{"id": "43414394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43414394", "title": "Paulina Pfiffner", "text": "Paulina Pfiffner\n\nPaulina Pfiffner (1825 – 29 September 1853), was a Hungarian freedom fighter in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848.\n\nShe was the daughter of an Italian immigrant. In 1840, she ran away from home to become an actor in Budapest. In 1848, she enlisted in the Hungarian forces dressed as a man under the name \"Ligeti Kalman\". She was promoted to officer after having distinguished herself by her bravery during the Battle of Piski.\n"}
{"id": "2420783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2420783", "title": "Phyllis Chesler", "text": "Phyllis Chesler\n\nPhyllis Chesler (born October 1, 1940) is an American writer, psychotherapist, and professor emerita of psychology and women's studies at the College of Staten Island (CUNY). She is known as a feminist psychologist, and is the author of 16 books, including the best-seller \"Women and Madness\" (1972). Chesler has written on topics such as gender, mental illness, divorce and child custody, surrogacy, second-wave feminism, pornography, prostitution, incest, and violence against women.\n\nIn more recent years, Chesler has written several works on such subjects as antisemitism, Islam, and honor killings. Chesler argues that many western intellectuals, including leftists and feminists, have abandoned Western values in the name of multicultural relativism, and that this has led to an alliance with Islamists, an increase in antisemitism, and to the abandonment of Muslim women and religious minorities in Muslim-majority countries.\n\nChesler was the eldest of three children raised in a working class Orthodox Jewish family in Brooklyn, New York. As a youth she joined the Socialist-Zionist, anti-religious youth movement, HaShomer Hatzair, and later the even more radical left-wing Zionist youth movement, Ein Harod. Despite her parents' disapproval, she continued to rebel against her religious upbringing.\n\nShe attended New Utrecht High School where she was the editor of the yearbook and of the literary magazine. She won a full scholarship to Bard College, where she met Ali, a Westernized Muslim man from Afghanistan, the son of devout Muslim parents. They married in a civil ceremony in 1961 in New York State and settled in Kabul, in the large, polygamous household of her father-in-law. She credits this experience with inspiring her to become an ardent feminist.\n\nAccording to Chesler, her problems began on arrival in Afghanistan. The authorities forced her to surrender her U.S. passport, and she ended up a virtual prisoner in her in-laws' house. Chesler describes this as how foreign wives were treated. This phenomenon has been documented by others. She reports that the U.S. embassy refused to help her leave the country. After several months, she contracted hepatitis and became gravely ill. At that point, her father-in-law made it possible for her return to the U.S. on a temporary visa.\n\nUpon her return, she completed her final semester and graduated from Bard, embarked on a doctoral program, worked in a brain research laboratory for E. Roy John, published studies in \"Science\" magazine and received a fellowship in neurophysiology at the New York Medical College at Flower Fifth Avenue Hospital. Thereafter, in 1969, she earned a Ph.D. in psychology at the New School for Social Research and embarked on careers as a professor, author, and psychotherapist in private practice.\n\nChesler divorced her first husband and remarried an Israeli, whom she also later divorced. She has one son. She describes their relationship, pregnancy, childbirth, and her first year as a newborn mother in \"With Child: A Diary of Motherhood\". In the 1998 edition, her son wrote the preface to the book.\n\nIn 1969, she cofounded the Association for Women in Psychology. In 1972, she published \"Women and Madness\", whose thesis is \"that double standards of mental health and illness exist and that women are often punitively labeled as a function of gender, race, class, or sexual preference\". The book sold more than 3 million copies worldwide. The book received a front page \"New York Times\" review by Adrienne Rich, who described it as \"intense, rapid, brilliant, controversial ... a pioneer contribution to the feminization of psychiatric thinking and practice\".\n\nChesler has been consulted by lawyers, psychologists and psychiatrists on diverse subjects including sex between patient and therapist, rape, incest, domestic violence, custody, honor killings, and the mistreatment of women in jails and in psychiatric institutions. In 1997, she taught a course in Forensic Psychology at John Jay College. In 1997, she was the sole expert witness in a class action lawsuit in Nebraska on behalf of female psychiatric patients who had been sexually, physically, medically, and psychologically abused. In 1998, she taught a course in Advanced Psychology and Women's Studies at Brandeis University. From 2008–2012, Chesler submitted courtroom affidavits in cases where girls and women have fled being honor killed and applied for asylum in America.\n\nChesler is considered a radical feminist and a second wave feminist leader. Chesler believes that men can and should be feminists, and she wrote in her book \"Letters to a Young Feminist\" that she envisions her heirs as both women and men. Chesler has studied male psychology and published a book on the subject (\"About Men\") which discussed the father-son, mother-son, and brother-brother relationships; the book also tried to understand male conformity, how and why men obeyed the orders of male tyrants, and what kind of men resisted doing so.\n\nChesler taught one of the first Women's Studies classes in the U.S. at Richmond College (which later merged with Staten Island Community College to form the College of Staten Island) in New York City during the 1969–1970 school year. She turned the women's studies course into a minor and then a major at the university. With Vivian Gornick, she created an early feminist salon. In 1975, she co-led one of the first feminist Passover seders and continued to do so for 18 years. During her time at Richmond College, she established many services for female students, including self-defense classes, a rape crisis center, and a child care center. She was also a leader in the class action lawsuit against CUNY on behalf of women which took 17 years to be resolved. In 1975, she became one of five cofounders of The National Women's Health Network, with Barbara Seaman, Alice Wolfson, Belita Cowan, and Mary Howell, and is a charter member of the \"Women's Forum\" and a founding member of the International Committee for Women of the Wall.\n\nIn 1969, Chesler, together with others, co-founded the Association for Women in Psychology. With Dr. Dorothy Riddle, Chesler presented a series of demands at the 1969 annual meeting of the American Psychological Association, demands which an Association for Women in Psychology group had worked on together. Chesler prepared a statement on the APA's obligations to women and demanded one million dollars in reparation for the damage psychology had perpetrated against allegedly mentally ill and traumatized women.\n\nIn her early work, although Chesler argued for integration, she also stated in 1972 that \"feminists\" and feminist values must gradually and ultimately \"dominate\" public social institutions—in order to insure that they are not used against women\", and argued that there has always been \"a war between the sexes\". In 1977, Chesler became an associate of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press. Chesler worked for the United Nations (1979–1980) and coordinated an international feminist conference that took place in Oslo, just prior to the 1980 UN conference on women.\n\nIn 1986, Chesler co-organized a speakout about mothers losing custody of children at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. Nearly 500 custodially embattled mothers and speakers attended, including Ti-Grace Atkinson, E.M. Broner, Paula Caplan, Toi Derricotte, Andrea Dworkin, and Kate Millett. New York State and national legislators and feminist leaders participated. Also in 1986, Chesler co-organized a congressional press briefing in Washington, D.C. on mothers and child custody. It was sponsored by then-Representatives Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA). Some of the mothers she interviewed for her 1986 book \"Mothers on Trial\" spoke at the briefing.\n\nIn 1987, Chesler worked with Mary Beth Whitehead's lawyer Harold Cassidy in the landmark Baby M case, in which the New Jersey Supreme Court declared that surrogacy contracts violated New Jersey law. Chesler organized demonstrations outside the courthouse, wrote articles, created an alliance of diverse groups, and ultimately documented this struggle and the issues raised by a surrogacy contract custody battle in \"Sacred Bond: The Legacy of Baby M\". In 1989, Chesler began publishing in \"On the Issues\" magazine and also functioned as its Editor-at-Large. She did so for fifteen years until the magazine became an online edition.\n\nIn 1990–1991, Chesler organized expert witnesses in the case of Aileen Wuornos, a female serial killer. Chesler's stated goal was to educate the jury and the country about the lives of women in prostitution and the dangerous conditions they routinely face. The public defender did not call any of these witnesses, which became one of the grounds of the appeal that Wuornos' lawyers launched in the Florida Supreme Court. Chesler wrote about the legal and psychiatric issues raised by the case in the \"New York Times\" and \"St. John's Law Review\" and the \"Criminal Practice Law Report\".\n\nIn 1976, the first women-only Passover seder was held in Esther M. Broner's New York City apartment and led by Broner, with 13 women attending, including Chesler. Chesler also created and participated in Jewish feminist life cycle rituals.\n\nIn 1988 Chesler was among the women who prayed with a Torah for the first time in an all-female, multi-denominational, non-minyan group at the Western Wall in Jerusalem. In 1989, Chesler co-founded the International Committee for Women of the Wall to promote the religious rights of Jewish women in Jerusalem; she became one of the name plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the state of Israel on this issue. In 2002, she and co-author Rivka Haut both edited and contributed to an anthology on this subject. In 1989, Chesler began to study Torah. She published her first dvar Torah (Bible interpretation) in 2000. She has since published and/or delivered additional Torah commentaries.\n\nIn the 1960s, Chesler was active in the Northern Student Movement. Chesler has written about the participation of African-American women in the American civil rights movement in the 1960s and was interviewed on camera in a documentary about Viola Liuzzo, a white female civil rights activist who was murdered by Ku Klux Klan members. In 1973, Chesler co-organized the first press conference about feminism and antisemitism, and in 1974–1975 she co-organized the first Jewish feminist speakout in New York City. In 1981, Chesler organized the first-ever panel on racism, anti-semitism, and feminism for the National Women's Studies Association in Storrs, Connecticut.\n\nWomen and Madness is now considered a classic work. The poet and essayist Adrienne Rich's front-page review in \"The New York Times\" (cited above) was a first of its kind for a feminist work. When it first appeared, at least one critic viewed the work as \"radical\" and \"overstated\". Other reviews were more positive. \"The Saturday Review\" opined that \"this is an extremely important book, a signal that the women's liberation movement is coming of age ... she writes with high passion and compassion\". The \"Los Angeles Times\" described it as a \"stunning book ... fascinating and important to every woman\"; The \"Boston Phoenix\" viewed the book as \"an extensively researched and deeply intuitive exploration of woman's psychic experience ... invaluable\". When the book was translated into European languages, many reviews appeared. In his review for \"Le Monde\", Roland Jaccard wrote that \"like any important book, \"Women and Madness\" has the immense merit of 'troubling the world's sleep.'\"\n\nThe book is an in-depth study of gender-based economic disparities in America in the 1970s. Congresswoman Bella Abzug hailed the book as \"powerful ... a realistic analysis of women's economic and political condition\". Florynce Kennedy wrote that the book \"is the antidote for the poison of women's powerlessness\". \"The New York Times\" gave it a mixed review but described it as \"useful not only for its theoretical insights but for its presentation of a number of practical items\". Kirkus called it \"caustic and abrasive\" but also \"impressively researched ... one of the more challenging works to come out of the women's movement\".\n\n\" About Men\" describes the relationships between brothers, sons and fathers, and sons and mothers. When it was published in 1978, the book was described as \"psychologically voluptuous, it plunges through the bloody underbrush of male-male relationships ... insisting that we look at men with fresh and fearless eyes\". Robert Seidenberg, Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at SUNY, wrote that Chesler defined manhood \"with a brilliance and erudition equal to the task\", describing Chesler as men's \"Tocqueville\". John Leonard of the \"New York Times\" wrote that Chesler \"has written a brave, sad, disorderly, sometimes self-indulgent, often infuriating, always provocative book.\"\n\nChesler was one of only a small number of second-wave feminists to focus on motherhood. In \"With Child: A Diary of Motherhood\", Chesler explored the experience of pregnancy, childbirth, and the first year of \"newborn\" motherhood in psychological, spiritual, and mythic terms. The book was endorsed by both men (Alan Alda, Gerold Frank) and women (Judy Collins, Tillie Olsen, Marilyn French). It was also reviewed in the mainstream media. Caroline Seebohm of the \"New York Times\" noted that this book stood out because it was written by a radical feminist, and describes the it as \"a nice mixture of romantic charm and intellectual insight.\" In 1998, Chesler's eighteen-year-old son wrote a new introduction to the book.\n\n\"Sacred Bond\" discussed the issues raised by the high-profile Baby M case, in which surrogacy was ultimately declared illegal in the state of New Jersey. Despite liberal feminist opposition, Chesler defended the rights of the birth mother, Mary Beth Whitehead, who wanted to keep her child even though the genetic father and his wife were a more educated and higher income couple.\n\n\"The New York Times\" described this book as \"a powerful critique of the way many of us were inclined to think\". A \"Los Angeles Times\" reviewer wrote that \"Sacred Bond\" is \"a powerful, provocative book ... illustrating social problems sure to remain controversial\". The book and its views were also condemned by pro-surrogacy lobbies, pro-adoption lobbies, and by feminists who were concerned with maximizing their options in case of infertility. This issue remains timely and is frequently in the news.\n\nThis volume consists of several articles written by Chesler on topics such as the Aileen Wuornos, Baby M, child abuse, treatment of women in mental health institutions, and patriarchy. It also includes a critique of Naomi Wolf’s book \"Fire with Fire\".\n\nIn 1998, Chesler wrote a \"legacy\" letter. She wanted to share the history of her generation of feminists with coming generations and to point to work still left undone. The work was lauded by feminists of her era and mocked or minimized by daughter-generation feminists who did not want to keep standing on the shoulders of a previous generation with whom they disagreed and with whom they were in competition.\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\" described this as \"a frank assessment of the past and a radical recipe for the future\". \"The New York Times\" felt much of the advice was unnecessary since \"Feminism's daughters have outgrown their bunk beds\". The reviewer found the book \"strident\" and fails to reach younger feminists but concedes that \"Chesler does an admirable job. She writes poignantly of the way in which her generation was eerily silent about woman-hating among women, including among feminists. She implores readers to adopt a more global perspective on women's rights.\" Salon noted that \"the book mostly seemed to piss off its intended audience.\"\n\nNevertheless, reviews from feminists of her own generation were more positive. For example, Susan Brownmiller wrote, \"The sweet, clear voice of these Letters should reach across the generation gap like Joshua's trumpet. This is Phyllis Chesler writing at the top of her form.\" Gloria Steinem endorsed the book and found it a \"warm, personal, political, irresistible guide for young feminists, women and men.\"\n\nThis pioneering book addressed the subject of female indirect aggression, both in the family and the workplace, both in childhood and adulthood, and covered woman's capacity for cruelty, competition, envy, and ostracism; the ways in which women, like men, have internalized sexist beliefs; and the importance of acknowledging the \"shadow side\" of female-female relationships, especially because such relationships are so important to women. The book was reviewed in many publications, and the author was interviewed widely in South America, North America (including in \"The New York Times\"), Europe, and Asia. It received a front-page review in the Washington Post Book World written by Deborah Tannen. Tannen wrote: \"Chesler seems to have read everything and thought deeply about it...Along with social commentary and psychological insight, Chesler offers astute literary criticism...many of Chesler's richest scenarios are drawn from the more than 500 interviews she conducted ... many of Chesler's examples have an unmistakable and heartbreaking ring of familiarity. The time has come to stop idealizing or demonizing either sex. Seeing women, like men, as capable of both courage and jealousy, of providing care, and causing pain, is no more nor less than acknowledging women as fully human.\"\n\nIn addition, the book was reviewed in \"Salon\", \"Publishers Weekly\", and \"Kirkus Reviews\".\n\nChesler's \"The New Anti-Semitism: The Current Crisis and What We Must Do About It\" was issued in 2003. The book received positive notices from Erica Jong and Alan Dershowitz. Natan Sharansky described the book as \"sensitive\", \"authoritative\", and \"essential reading\".\n\nSome reviews were more critical. A 2003 review in \"Publishers Weekly\" argued that the book \"too often undercuts itself when its author intends to be provocative\", citing lines such as \"African-Americans (not Jews) are the Jews in America but Jews are the world's niggers.\" The review piece concluded that \"Chesler's tone and lack of intellectual rigor will not help her ideas to be heard by those who do not already agree with her.\"\n\nIn \"The Death of Feminism: What's Next in the Struggle for Women's Freedom\", Chesler documented how western academic and activist feminists came to abandon their former concepts of universal human rights for everyone and became multicultural relativists. She argues that their desire to avoid being labeled \"racists\" or \"Islamophobes\" eventually trumped their concern with women's and human rights in the Third World. The \"Death of Feminism\" was excerpted in \"Playboy\" magazine, but she was also interviewed by the \"Washington Times\", and positively reviewed in the pages of \"The Weekly Standard\" and \"The National Review\".\n\nKirkus called it a \"loud wake up call ... a fierce polemic, filled with vigorous arguments and distressing human stories\". Publishers Weekly wrote: \"She has penned a cross between a cri di coeur and a deeply rhetorical polemic that makes scores of provocative points... As in her last book, \"The New Anti-Semitism\" Chesler raised important issues, but her style will alienate the very people she means to reach.\" However, leading Second Wave feminist Kate Millett, who wrote \"Sexual Politics\", \"Flying\", and \"Going to Iran\", praised \"The Death of Feminism\": \"In telling her story she is sounding a warning to the West that it ignores to its peril.\" Liberal lawyer Alan Dershowitz called the work \"a tour de force ... a must read\".\n\nShe was also interviewed about the book in the \"Chicago Tribune\". and \"London Guardian\". In 2006, Chesler participated at the First Muslim Dissident Conference in St. Petersburg, Florida, which she covered for the Times of London.\n\nIn 2011, Chicago Review Press published a 25th anniversary edition of Chesler's 1986 book \"Mothers on Trial: The Battle for Children and Custody\", in which she argues that the American legal system is biased and overworked and continues to fail the needs of mothers and children, especially those whose husbands and fathers are violent and vindictive. She discusses topics such as prolonged litigation, joint custody, court enabled incest, brainwashing, kidnapping, gay and lesbian custody, fathers' rights groups, and international child custody laws. The new edition includes a new introduction and eight new chapters. The new edition received favorable notices from the \"Library Journal\" and \"Kirkus Reviews\".\n\nAn account of her 1961 marriage to an Afghan man, her brief married life in a harem in Afghanistan, and the lifelong lessons she learned. The book uses material from diaries, letters, and interviews spanning a fifty-year period to describe this ill-fated relationship and the experiences that Chesler believes forged her feminism. \"American Bride in Kabul\" won a National Jewish Book Award for 2013.\n\nOn December 14, 2005, Chesler delivered a presentation before a United States Senate committee entitled, \"Gender Apartheid in Iran and the Muslim World\". She called for the U.S. government to oppose what she described as \"Islamic gender apartheid\" and to support the rights of women living in fundamentalist Islamic regimes. \"If we do not oppose and defeat Islamic gender apartheid, democracy and freedom cannot flourish in the Arab and Islamic world,\" she said. \"If we do not join forces with Muslim dissident and feminist groups; and, above all, if we do not have one universal standard of human rights for all—then we will fail our own Judeo-Christian and secular Western ideals.\" She also told the committee that her experience in Afghanistan taught her \"the necessity of applying a single standard of human rights, not one tailored to each culture\".\n\nChesler made statements critical of Islam in the context of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict in a 2007 interview with the \"Jewish Press\". She was quoted as saying, \"It's easy to say, yes, the Muslims are against everyone who is not a Muslim. And it's true. That's part of what jihad is about, that's part of the history of Islam. [...] Here's the thing. The West, and that means Jews and Israelis, would like to lead sweet and peaceful lives. We're up against an enemy now that is dying to kill us, that lives to kill, and that at best merely wishes to impose on the rest of us its laws and strictures.\"\n\nChesler published three essays about honor killings in the American journal \"Middle East Quarterly\" in 2009, 2010, and 2012. In one such essay, she wrote that 91% of the total worldwide cases of honour killings (as reported in English-language media) were Muslim-on-Muslim crimes, including those committed in North America and Europe. Based on these sources, Chesler concluded that \"there are at least two types of honor killings and two victim populations.\" She identified the first group as consisting of daughters with an average age of seventeen who were killed by their families, and the second group as consisting of women with an average age of thirty-six. In her most recent essay, Chesler asserts that both Hindus and Muslims commit honor killings, but that only Muslims do so worldwide.\n\nChesler argues that honor killings differ qualitatively from Western domestic femicide. She has acknowledged that \"many honorable feminists\" disagree with this position, writing that \"understandably, such feminists fear singling out one group for behavior that may be common to all groups.\" Chesler's position is that perpetrators of domestically violent femicide are regarded as criminals in the west but that the same stigma does not attach to honor killings in all other societies.\n\nIn an address before the New York County Supreme Court, Chesler reported that she has submitted affidavits on behalf of Muslim women and converts from Islam whom she contends believed themselves to be in danger of being the victims of honor killing, and who sought asylum and citizenship in the United States.\n\nIn 2010, Chesler wrote a further essay in \"Middle East Quarterly\" calling for the burqa to be banned in western countries. She argued in defense of this position that the Qur'an commands both men and women to dress \"modestly\"; that several Muslim-majority countries have, in the past, banned the full burqa or niqab, and that the overwhelming majority of Muslim countries do not require that women wear a face veil; that the burqa can function as a \"sensory deprivation and isolation chamber\"; and that physical and psychiatric illnesses are associated with lack of sunlight. She wrote that she was not opposed to the headscarf (hijab), on the grounds that it does not obscure a woman's facial identity.\n\nChesler has been writing about rape, incest, sexual harassment, and domestic violence since the late 1960s. Her focus has mainly been in the West. With the rise of Islamic fundamentalism, terrorism, and gender apartheid, and the Islamist persecution of women, Chesler began to explore similar themes in Muslim-majority countries. Chesler found that sexual abuse is widespread in Muslim communities worldwide, and that such abuse \"leads to paranoid, highly traumatized and revenge-seeking adults\". She has further argued, in a paraphrase of Nancy Kobrin, that some suicide bombers may be unconsciously acting out their hatred of women in committing violent acts. A 2006 review in the \"Toronto Star\" described Chesler's views on this subject as \"compelling, if strident\". Muslim feminists and dissidents such as Ibn Warraq and Amir Taheri have lauded Chesler's work in this area as ground-breaking and truthful. In 2013, Chesler was appointed a Fellow of the Middle East Forum.\n\nChesler’s work on honor-based violence, including honor killing, has recently led to a number of consequential events.\n\nFirst, in the summer of 2017, after Taylor and Francis declined to publish her two volumes in this area, New English Review Press immediately agreed to do so. In the fall of 2017, they published Islamic Gender Apartheid: Exposing a Veiled War Against Women with a new Introduction. It received a number of respectful reviews.\n\nSecond, in April 2017, she was dis-invited by the University of Arkansas Law School to lecture at a conference about Honor-Based Violence. This was written about widely on social media. However Dr. Chesler was almost immediately invited by a group of grassroots activists in this very area to speak at a conference at U College London which took place in November of 2017. In 2018, she received a “True Honor” award from the Iranian and Kurdish Women’s Rights Organization (IKWRO) at a ceremony in London.\n\nShe selected, edited, and newly introduced her volume A Family Conspiracy: Honor Killing which appeared in April, 2018; the original Introduction appeared at Tablet, Middle East Forum, and at Mosaic. It was translated into German by Henryk K. Broder's group and posted at Achgut.\n\nA major interview with Dr. Chesler appeared in Emma the German feminist magazine.\n\nFourth she was again asked by a Law School clinic familiar with her academic studies in this area, to submit an affidavit (or, in this case, a Declaration) for a women who is applying for asylum based on the strong likelihood of her being honor killed were she to be returned to India. This was her sixth such affidavit for such cases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26056", "title": "Robert Anton Wilson", "text": "Robert Anton Wilson\n\nRobert Anton Wilson (born Robert Edward Wilson; January 18, 1932 – January 11, 2007) was an American author, novelist, essayist, editor, playwright, poet, futurist, and self-described agnostic mystic. Recognized by Discordianism as an Episkopos, Pope, and saint, Wilson helped publicize the group through his writings and interviews.\n\nWilson described his work as an \"attempt to break down conditioned associations, to look at the world in a new way, with many models recognized as models or maps, and no one model elevated to the truth\". His goal being \"to try to get people into a state of generalized agnosticism, not agnosticism about God alone but agnosticism about everything.\"\n\nBorn Robert Edward Wilson in Methodist Hospital, in Brooklyn, New York, he spent his first years in Flatbush, and moved with his family to lower middle class Gerritsen Beach around the age of four or five, where they stayed until relocating to the steadfastly middle-class neighborhood of Bay Ridge when Wilson was thirteen. He suffered from polio as a child, and found generally effective treatment with the Kenny Method (created by Elizabeth Kenny) which the American Medical Association repudiated at that time. Polio's effects remained with Wilson throughout his life, usually manifesting as minor muscle spasms causing him to use a cane occasionally until 2000, when he experienced a major bout with post-polio syndrome that would continue until his death.\n\nWilson attended Catholic grammar school, likely the school associated with Gerritsen Beach's Resurrection Church , and attended Brooklyn Technical High School (a selective public institution) to remove himself from the Catholic influence; at \"Brooklyn Tech,\" Wilson was influenced by literary modernism (particularly Ezra Pound and James Joyce), the Western philosophical tradition, then-innovative historians such as Charles A. Beard, science fiction (including the works of Olaf Stapledon, Robert A. Heinlein and Theodore Sturgeon) and Alfred Korzybski's interdisciplinary theory of general semantics. He would later recall that the family was \"living so well... compared to the Depression\" during this period \"that I imagined we were lace-curtain Irish at last.\"\n\nFollowing his graduation in 1950, Wilson was employed in a succession of jobs (including ambulance driver, engineering aide, salesman and medical orderly) and absorbed various philosophers and cultural practices (including bebop, psychoanalysis, Bertrand Russell, Carl Jung, Wilhelm Reich, Leon Trotsky and Ayn Rand, whom he later repudiated) while writing in his spare time. He studied electrical engineering and mathematics at the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute from 1952 to 1957 and English education at New York University from 1957 to 1958 but failed to take a degree from either institution.\n\nAfter smoking marijuana for nearly a decade, he first experimented with mescaline in Yellow Springs, Ohio on December 28, 1961. Wilson began to work as a freelance journalist and advertising copywriter in the late 1950s. He adopted his maternal grandfather's name, Anton, for his writings, telling himself that he would save the \"Edward\" for when he wrote the Great American Novel and later finding that \"Robert Anton Wilson\" had become an established identity.\n\nHe assumed co-editorship of the School for Living's Brookville, Ohio-based \"Balanced Living\" magazine in 1962 and briefly returned to New York as associate editor of Ralph Ginzburg's quarterly \"fact:\" before leaving for \"Playboy\", where he served as an associate editor from 1965 to 1971. According to Wilson, \"Playboy\" \"paid me a higher salary than any other magazine at which I had worked and never expected me to become a conformist or sell my soul in return. I enjoyed my years in the Bunny Empire. I only resigned when I reached 40 and felt I could not live with myself if I didn't make an effort to write full-time at last.\" Along with frequent collaborator Robert Shea, Wilson edited the magazine's \"Playboy\" Forum, a letters section consisting of responses to the \"Playboy\" Philosophy editorial column. During this period, he covered Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert's Millbrook, New York-based Castalia Foundation at the instigation of Alan Watts in \"The Realist\", cultivated important friendships with William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg, and lectured at the Free University of New York on 'Anarchist and Synergetic Politics' in 1965.\n\nHe received a B.A., M.A. (1978) and Ph.D. (1981) in psychology from Paideia University, an unaccredited institution that has since closed. Wilson reworked his dissertation, and it found publication in 1983 as \"Prometheus Rising\".\n\nWilson married freelance writer and poet Arlen Riley in 1958. They had four children, including Christina Wilson Pearson and Patricia Luna Wilson. Luna was beaten to death in an apparent robbery in the store where she worked in 1976 at the age of 15, and became the first person to have her brain preserved by the Bay Area Cryonics Society. Arlen Riley Wilson died in 1999 following a series of strokes.\n\nAmong Wilson's 35 books, and many other works, perhaps his best-known volumes remain the cult classic series \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\" (1975), co-authored with Shea. Advertised as \"a fairy tale for paranoids,\" the three books—\"The Eye in the Pyramid\", \"The Golden Apple\", and \"Leviathan\", soon offered as a single volume—philosophically and humorously examined, among many other themes, occult and magical symbolism and history, the counterculture of the 1960s, secret societies, data concerning author H.P. Lovecraft and author and occultist Aleister Crowley, and American paranoia about conspiracies and conspiracy theories. The book was intended to poke fun at the conspiratorial frame of mind.\n\nWilson and Shea derived much of the odder material from letters sent to \"Playboy\" magazine while they worked as the editors of its Forum. The books mixed true information with imaginative fiction to engage the reader in what Wilson called \"guerrilla ontology\", which he apparently referred to as \"Operation Mindfuck\" in \"Illuminatus!\" The trilogy also outlined a set of libertarian and anarchist axioms known as Celine's Laws (named after Hagbard Celine, a character in \"Illuminatus!\"), concepts Wilson revisited several times in other writings.\n\nAmong the many subplots of \"Illuminatus!\" one addresses biological warfare and the overriding of the United States Bill of Rights, another gives a detailed account of the John F. Kennedy assassination (in which no fewer than five snipers, all working for different causes, prepare to shoot Kennedy), and the book's climax occurs at a rock concert where the audience collectively face the danger of becoming a mass human sacrifice.\n\n\"Illuminatus!\" popularized Discordianism and the use of the term \"fnord\". It incorporates experimental prose styles influenced by writers such as William S. Burroughs, James Joyce, and Ezra Pound. Although Shea and Wilson never co-operated on such a scale again, Wilson continued to expand upon the themes of the \"Illuminatus!\" books throughout his writing career. Most of his later fiction contains cross-over characters from \"The Sex Magicians\" (Wilson's first novel, written before the release of \"Illuminatus!\", which includes many of his same characters) and \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\".\n\n\"Illuminatus!\" won the Prometheus Hall of Fame award for science fiction in 1986, has many international editions, and found adaptation for the stage when Ken Campbell produced it as a ten-hour drama. It also appeared as two card based games from Steve Jackson Games, one a trading-card game (). Eye N Apple Productions and Rip Off Press produced a comic book version of the trilogy.\n\nWilson wrote two more popular fiction series. The first, a trilogy later published as a single volume, was \"Schrödinger's Cat\". The second, \"The Historical Illuminatus Chronicles\", appeared as three books. In between publishing the two trilogies Wilson released a stand-alone novel, \"Masks of the Illuminati\" (1981), which fits into, due to the main character's ancestry, \"The Historical Illuminatus Chronicles\"' timeline and, while published earlier, could qualify for the fourth volume in that series.\n\n\"Schrödinger's Cat\" consists of three volumes: \"The Universe Next Door\", \"The Trick Top Hat\", and \"The Homing Pigeons\". Wilson set the three books in differing alternative universes, and most of the characters remain almost the same but may have different names, careers and background stories. The books cover the fields of quantum mechanics and the varied philosophies and explanations that exist within the science. The single volume describes itself as a magical textbook and a type of initiation. The single-volume edition omits many entire pages and has many other omissions when compared with the original separate books.\n\n\"The Historical Illuminatus Chronicles\", composed of \"The Earth Will Shake\" (1982), \"The Widow's Son\" (1985), and \"Nature's God\" (1991), follows the timelines of several characters through different generations, time periods, and countries. The books cover, among many other topics, the history, legacy, and rituals of the Illuminati and related groups.\n\n\"Masks of the Illuminati\", featuring historical characters in a fictionalized setting, contains a great deal of occult data. Intermixing Albert Einstein, James Joyce, Aleister Crowley, Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, and others, the book focuses on Pan and other occult icons, ideas, and practices. The book includes homages, parodies and pastiches from both the lives and works of Crowley and Joyce.\n\nWilson's play, \"Wilhelm Reich in Hell\", was published as a book in 1987 and first performed at the Edmund Burke Theatre in Dublin, in San Francisco, and in Los Angeles. It features many factual and fictional characters, including Marilyn Monroe, Uncle Sam, and Wilhelm Reich himself. Wilson also wrote and published as books two screenplays, not yet produced: \"Reality Is What You Can Get Away With: an Illustrated Screenplay\" (1992) and \"The Walls Came Tumbling Down\" (1997).\n\nWilson's book \"\" has been adapted as a theatrical stage play by Daisy Eris Campbell, daughter of Ken Campbell the British theatre maverick who staged \"Illuminatus!\" at the Royal National Theatre in 1977. The play opened on November 23, 2014 in Liverpool before transferring to London and Brighton. Some of the costs were met through crowdfunding. Wilson's book is itself dedicated to \"Ken Campbell and the Science-Fiction Theatre Of Liverpool, England.\"\n\nIn his nonfiction and partly autobiographical \"\" (1977) and its two sequels, as well as in many other works, Wilson examined Freemasons, Discordianism, Sufism, the Illuminati, Futurology, Zen Buddhism, Dennis and Terence McKenna, Jack Parsons, the occult practices of Aleister Crowley and G.I. Gurdjieff, Yoga, and many other esoteric or counterculture philosophies, personalities, and occurrences.\n\nWilson advocated Timothy Leary's 8-Circuit Model of Consciousness and neurosomatic/linguistic engineering, which he wrote about in many books including \"Prometheus Rising\" (1983, revised 1997) and \"Quantum Psychology\" (1990), which contain practical techniques intended to help the reader break free of one's reality tunnels. With Leary, he helped promote the futurist ideas of space migration, intelligence increase, and life extension, which they combined to form the word symbol SMI²LE.\n\nWilson's 1986 book, \"The New Inquisition\", argues that whatever reality consists of it actually would seem much weirder than we commonly imagine. It cites, among other sources, Bell's theorem and Alain Aspect's experimental proof of Bell's to suggest that mainstream science has a strong materialist bias, and that in fact modern physics may have already disproved materialist metaphysics.\n\nWilson also supported the work and utopian theories of Buckminster Fuller and examined the theories of Charles Fort. He and Loren Coleman became friends, as he did with media theorist Marshall McLuhan and Neuro Linguistic Programming co-founder Richard Bandler, with whom he taught workshops. He also admired James Joyce, and wrote extensive commentaries on the author and on two of Joyce's novels, \"Finnegans Wake\" and \"Ulysses\", in his 1988 book \"\".\n\nAlthough Wilson often lampooned and criticized some New Age beliefs, bookstores specializing in New Age material often sell his books. Wilson, a well-known author in occult and Neo-Pagan circles, used Aleister Crowley as a main character in his 1981 novel \"Masks of the Illuminati\", also included some elements of H. P. Lovecraft's work in his novels, and at times claimed to have perceived encounters with magical \"entities\" (when asked whether these entities seemed \"real\", he answered they seemed \"real enough,\" although \"not as real as the IRS\" but \"easier to get rid of\", and later decided that his experiences may have emerged from \"just my right brain hemisphere talking to my left\"). He warned against beginners using occult practice, since to rush into such practices and the resulting \"energies\" they unleash could lead people to \"go totally nuts\".\n\nWilson also criticized scientific types with overly rigid belief systems, equating them with religious fundamentalists in their fanaticism. In a 1988 interview, when asked about his newly published book \"The New Inquisition: Irrational Rationalism and the Citadel of Science\", Wilson commented: \n\nI coined the term irrational rationalism because those people claim to be rationalists, but they're governed by such a heavy body of taboos. They're so fearful, and so hostile, and so narrow, and frightened, and uptight and dogmatic... I wrote this book because I got tired satirizing fundamentalist Christianity... I decided to satirize fundamentalist materialism for a change, because the two are equally comical... The materialist fundamentalists are funnier than the Christian fundamentalists, because they think they're rational! ...They're never skeptical about anything except the things they have a prejudice against. None of them ever says anything skeptical about the AMA, or about anything in establishment science or any entrenched dogma. They're only skeptical about new ideas that frighten them. They're actually dogmatically committed to what they were taught when they were in college...\n\nIn a 2003 interview with \"High Times\" magazine, Wilson described himself as \"model-agnostic\" which he said \n\nconsists of never regarding any model or map of the universe with total 100% belief or total 100% denial. Following Korzybski, I put things in probabilities, not absolutes... My only originality lies in applying this zetetic attitude outside the hardest of the hard sciences, physics, to softer sciences and then to non-sciences like politics, ideology, jury verdicts and, of course, conspiracy theory.\n\nWilson claimed in \"Cosmic Trigger: Volume 1\" \"not to believe anything\", since \"belief is the death of intelligence\". He described this approach as \"Maybe Logic.\"\n\nWilson wrote about this and other topics in articles for the cyberpunk magazine \"Mondo 2000\".\n\nWilson favored a form of basic income guarantee; synthesizing several ideas under the acronym RICH. His ideas are set forth in the essay \"The RICH Economy\" found in \"The Illuminati Papers\". In an article critical of capitalism Wilson self-identified as a \"libertarian socialist\", saying that \"I ask only one thing of skeptics: don't bring up Soviet Russia, please. That horrible example of State Capitalism has nothing to do with what I, and other libertarian socialists, would offer as an alternative to the present system.\" In his book \"Right Where You Are Sitting Now\" he praises the georgist economist Silvio Gesell. Wilson speaks favorably of Henry George in the essay \"Left and Right: A Non-Euclidean Perspective\": \"I am still fond of the system of Henry George (in which no rent is allowed, but free enterprise is otherwise preserved).\" Wilson also identified as an anarchist and described his belief system as \"a blend of Tucker, Spooner, Fuller, Pound, Henry George, Rothbard, Douglas, Korzybski, Proudhon and Marx.\" Wilson included Henry George's \"Progress and Poverty\" and Gesell's \"The Natural Economic Order\" in his list of 20 book recommendations, \"the bare minimum of what everybody really needs to chew and digest before they can converse intelligently about the 21st Century.\"\n\nRobert Anton Wilson and his wife Arlen Riley Wilson founded the \"Institute for the Study of the Human Future\" in 1975.\n\nFrom 1982 until his death, Wilson had a business relationship with the Association for Consciousness Exploration, which hosted his first on-stage dialogue with his long-time friend Timothy Leary entitled \"The Inner Frontier\". Wilson dedicated his book \"The New Inquisition\" to A.C.E.'s co-directors, Jeff Rosenbaum and Joseph Rothenberg.\n\nWilson also joined the Church of the SubGenius, who referred to him as Pope Bob. He contributed to their literature, including the book \"Three-Fisted Tales of \"Bob\"\", and shared a stage with their founder, Rev. Ivan Stang, on several occasions. Wilson also founded the Guns and Dope Party.\n\nAs a member of the Board of Advisors of the Fully Informed Jury Association, Wilson worked to inform the public about jury nullification, the right of jurors to nullify a law they deem unjust. He advocated for and wrote about E-Prime, a form of English lacking all forms of the verb \"to be\" (such as \"is\", \"are\", \"was\", \"were\" etc.).\n\nA decades-long researcher into drugs and a strong opponent of what he called \"the war on some drugs\", Wilson participated as a Special Guest in the week-long 1999 Annual Cannabis Cup in Amsterdam, and used and often promoted the use of medical marijuana. He participated in a protest organized by the Wo/Men's Alliance for Medical Marijuana in Santa Cruz in 2002.\n\nOn June 22, 2006, \"Huffington Post\" blogger Paul Krassner reported that Wilson was under hospice care at home with friends and family. On October 2, Douglas Rushkoff reported that Wilson was in severe financial trouble. Slashdot, Boing Boing, and the Church of the SubGenius also picked up on the story, linking to Rushkoff's appeal. As his webpage reported on October 10, these efforts succeeded beyond expectation and raised a sum which would have supported him for at least six months. Obviously touched by the great outpouring of support, on October 5, 2006, Wilson left the following comment on his personal website, expressing his gratitude:\n\nOn January 6, 2007, Wilson wrote on his blog that according to several medical authorities, he would likely only have between two days and two months left to live. He closed this message with \"I look forward without dogmatic optimism but without dread. I love you all and I deeply implore you to keep the lasagna flying. Please pardon my levity, I don't see how to take death seriously. It seems absurd.\"\n\nWilson died peacefully five days later, on January 11 at 4:50 a.m. Pacific time, just a week short of his 75th birthday. After his cremation on January 18 (also his 75th birthday), his family held a memorial service on February 18 and then scattered most of his ashes at the same spot as his wife's—off the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk in Santa Cruz, California.\n\nA tribute show to Wilson, organized by Coldcut and Mixmaster Morris and performed in London as a part of the \"Ether 07 Festival\" held at the Queen Elizabeth Hall on March 18, 2007, also included Ken Campbell, Bill Drummond and Alan Moore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168715", "title": "Ron Paul", "text": "Ron Paul\n\nRonald Ernest Paul (born August 20, 1935) is an American author, physician, and retired politician who served as the U.S. Representative for Texas's 22nd congressional district from 1976 to 1977 and again from 1979 to 1985, and for Texas's 14th congressional district from 1997 to 2013. On three occasions, he sought the presidency of the United States: as the Libertarian Party nominee in 1988 and as a candidate in the Republican primaries of 2008 and 2012. Paul is a critic of the federal government's fiscal policies, especially the existence of the Federal Reserve and the tax policy, as well as the military–industrial complex, and the War on Drugs. He has also been a vocal critic of mass surveillance policies such as the USA PATRIOT Act and the NSA surveillance programs. He was the first chairman of the conservative PAC Citizens for a Sound Economy and has been characterized as the \"intellectual godfather\" of the Tea Party movement.\n\nPaul served as a flight surgeon in the U.S. Air Force from 1963 to 1968, and worked as an obstetrician-gynecologist from the 1960s to the 1980s. He became the first Representative in history to serve concurrently with a son or daughter in the Senate when his son, Rand Paul, was elected to the U.S. Senate from Kentucky in 2010. Paul is a Senior Fellow of the Mises Institute, and has published a number of books and promoted the ideas of economists of the Austrian School such as Murray Rothbard and Ludwig von Mises during his political campaigns.\n\nOn July 12, 2011, Paul announced that he would forgo seeking another term in Congress in order to focus on his presidential bid. On May 14, 2012, Paul announced that he would not be competing in any other presidential primaries but that he would still compete for delegates in states where the primary elections have already been held. At the 2012 Republican National Convention, Paul received 190 delegate votes. In January 2013, Paul retired from Congress but still remains active on college campuses, giving speeches promoting his libertarian vision. Paul received one electoral vote from a Texas faithless elector in the 2016 presidential election, making him the oldest person to receive an electoral vote, as well as the second registered Libertarian presidential candidate in history to receive an Electoral College vote after John Hospers.\n\nRonald Ernest Paul was born on August 20, 1935, in Pittsburgh, the son of Howard Caspar Paul (1904–1997), who ran a small dairy company, and Margaret Paul (née Dumont; 1908–2001). His paternal grandfather emigrated from Germany, and his paternal grandmother, a devout Christian, was a first-generation German American.\n\nAs a junior at suburban Dormont High School, he was the 200 meter dash state champion. Paul went to Gettysburg College, where he was a member of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity. He graduated with a B.S. degree in Biology in 1957.\n\nPaul earned a Doctor of Medicine degree from Duke University's School of Medicine in 1961, and completed his medical internship at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit and his residency in obstetrics and gynecology at Magee-Womens Hospital in Pittsburgh. Paul served as a flight surgeon in the United States Air Force from 1963 to 1965 and then in the United States Air National Guard from 1965 to 1968. Paul and his wife then relocated to Texas, where he began a private practice in obstetrics and gynecology.\n\nWhile a medical resident in the 1960s, Paul was influenced by Friedrich Hayek's \"The Road to Serfdom\", which caused him to read other publications by Ludwig von Mises and Ayn Rand. He came to know economists Hans Sennholz and Murray Rothbard well, and credits his interest in the study of economics to them.\n\nWhen President Richard Nixon \"closed the gold window\" by ending American participation in the Bretton Woods System, thus ending the U.S. dollar's loose association with gold on August 15, 1971, Paul decided to enter politics and became a Republican candidate for the United States Congress.\n\nIn 1974, incumbent Robert R. Casey defeated him for the 22nd district. President Gerald Ford later appointed Casey to direct the Federal Maritime Commission, and Paul won an April 1976 special election to the vacant office after a runoff. Paul lost the next regular election to Democrat Robert Gammage by fewer than 300 votes (0.2%), but defeated Gammage in a 1978 rematch, and was reelected in 1980 and 1982. Gammage underestimated Paul's popularity among local mothers: \"I had real difficulty down in Brazoria County, where he practiced, because he'd delivered half the babies in the county. There were only two obstetricians in the county, and the other one was his partner.\"\n\nPaul served in Congress three different periods: first from 1976 to 1977, after he won a special election, then from 1979 to 1985, and finally from 1997 to 2013.\n\nIn his early years, Paul served on the House Banking Committee, where he blamed the Federal Reserve for inflation and spoke against the banking mismanagement that resulted in the savings and loan crisis. Paul argued for a return to the gold standard maintained by the US from 1873–1933, and with Senator Jesse Helms convinced the Congress to study the issue. He spoke against the reinstatement of registration for the military draft in 1980, in opposition to President Jimmy Carter and the majority of his fellow Republican members of Congress.\n\nDuring his first term, Paul founded the Foundation for Rational Economics and Education (FREE), a non-profit think tank dedicated to promoting principles of limited government and free-market economics. In 1984, Paul became the first chairman of the Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE), a conservative political group founded by Charles and David Koch \"to fight for less government, lower taxes, and less regulation.\" CSE started a Tea Party protest against high taxes in 2002. In 2004, Citizens for a Sound Economy split into two new organizations, with Citizens for a Sound Economy being renamed as FreedomWorks, and Citizens for a Sound Economy Foundation becoming Americans for Prosperity. The two organizations would become key players in the Tea Party movement from 2009 onward.\n\nPaul proposed term-limit legislation multiple times, while himself serving four terms in the House of Representatives. In 1984, he decided to retire from the House in order to run for the U.S. Senate, complaining in his House farewell address that \"Special interests have replaced the concern that the Founders had for general welfare... It's difficult for one who loves true liberty and utterly detests the power of the state to come to Washington for a period of time and not leave a true cynic.\" Paul lost the Republican primary to Phil Gramm, who had switched parties the previous year from Democrat to Republican. Another candidate of the senatorial primary was Henry Grover, a conservative former state legislator who had lost the 1972 gubernatorial general election to the Democrat Dolph Briscoe, Jr.\n\nOn Paul's departure from the House, his seat was assumed by former state representative Tom DeLay, who would later become House Majority Leader.\n\nFollowing the loss of the 1984 senate race, Paul returned to his obstetrics practice and took part in a number of other business ventures. Along with his former congressional chief of staff, Lew Rockwell, Paul founded a for-profit enterprise, Ron Paul & Associates, Inc. (RP&A) in 1984, with Paul serving as president, Rockwell as vice president, Paul's wife Carol as secretary, and daughter Lori Pyeatt as treasurer.\nThe company published a variety of political and investment-oriented newsletters, including \"Ron Paul Freedom Report\" and \"Ron Paul Survival Report\", and by 1993 was generating revenues in excess of $900,000.\n\nPaul also co-owned a mail-order coin dealership, \"Ron Paul Coins\", for twelve years with Burt Blumert, who continued to operate the dealership after Paul resumed office in 1996. Paul spoke multiple times at the American Numismatic Association's 1988 convention. He worked with his Foundation for Rational Economics and Education on such projects as establishing the National Endowment for Liberty, producing the \"At Issue\" public policy series that was broadcast on the Discovery Channel and CNBC, and continuing publication of newsletters.\n\nPaul left the Republican Party in 1987 and launched a bid for the presidency running on the Libertarian Party ticket. His candidacy was seen as problematic because of the party's long support for freedom of choice on abortions. Native American activist Russell Means, Paul's rival for the nomination, emphasized that he was pro-choice on the abortion issue. In a forum held prior to the nomination, Means dismissed the greater funds raised by Paul's campaign, commenting that Means was receiving \"10 times more press\" than the former Congressman and was therefore \"100 times more effective\".\n\nIn the 1988 presidential election, Paul was on the ballot in 46 states, scoring third in the popular vote with 432,179 votes (0.5%). Paul was kept off the ballot in Missouri, due to what the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" termed a \"technicality,\" and received votes there only when written in, just as he did in North Carolina.\n\nAccording to Paul, his presidential campaign was about more than obtaining office; he sought to promote his libertarian ideas, often to school and university groups regardless of vote eligibility. He said, \"We're just as interested in the future generation as this election. These kids will vote eventually, and maybe, just maybe, they'll go home and talk to their parents.\"\n\nPaul considered campaigning for president in 1992, but instead chose to endorse Pat Buchanan that year, and served as an adviser to Buchanan's Republican presidential primary campaign against incumbent President George H. W. Bush.\n\nDuring 1996, Paul was re-elected to Congress after a difficult campaign. The Republican National Committee endorsed incumbent Greg Laughlin in the primary; Paul won with assistance from baseball pitcher, constituent, and friend Nolan Ryan, tax activist and publisher Steve Forbes and conservative commentator Pat Buchanan (the latter two of whom had had presidential campaigns that year). Paul narrowly defeated Democratic attorney Charles \"Lefty\" Morris in the fall election, despite Morris' criticism over controversial statements in several newsletters that Paul published.\n\nIn 1998 and 2000, Paul defeated Loy Sneary, a Democratic Bay City, Texas, rice farmer and former Matagorda County judge.\nIn the 2008 Republican primary, he defeated Friendswood city councilman Chris Peden, with over 70 percent of the vote and ran unopposed in the general election. In the 2010 Republican primary, Paul defeated three opponents with 80 percent of the vote.\n\nOn July 12, 2011, Paul announced that he would not seek re-election to the House in order to pursue the 2012 presidential election.\n\n\nOf the 620 bills that Paul had sponsored through December 2011, over a period of more than 22 years in Congress, only one had been signed into law – a lifetime success rate of less than 0.3%. The sole measure authored by Paul that was ultimately enacted allowed for a federal customhouse to be sold to a local historic preservation society (H.R. 2121 in 2009).\n\nBy amending other legislation, he has helped prohibit funding for national identification numbers, funding for federal teacher certification, International Criminal Court jurisdiction over the U.S. military, American participation with any U.N. global tax, and surveillance of peaceful First Amendment activities by citizens.\n\nPaul was honorary chairman of, and is a member of the Republican Liberty Caucus, a political action committee that describes its goal as electing \"liberty-minded, limited-government individuals\". He is an initiating member of the Congressional Rural Caucus, which deals with agricultural and rural issues, and the 140-member Congressional Wildlife Refuge Caucus.\n\nPaul served on the following committees and subcommittees.\n\nWith the election of the 112th Congress, and a resulting GOP majority in the House, Paul became the chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy and Technology starting in January 2011.\n\nPaul's congressional career ended on January 3, 2013 with the swearing in of the 113th Congress.\n\nPaul formally declared his candidacy for the 2008 Republican nomination on March 12, 2007, on C-SPAN. Few major politicians endorsed him, and his campaign was largely ignored by traditional media. However, he attracted an intensely loyal grassroots following, interacting through internet social media. In May 2007, shortly after the first televised primary debates, the blogs search engine site Technorati.com listed Paul's name as the term most frequently searched for; and Paul's campaign claimed that Paul had more YouTube channel subscribers than Barack Obama or any other candidate for president. For a candidate who had had relatively low national name recognition prior to entering the race, Paul did surprisingly well in fundraising, taking in more money than any other Republican candidate in the fourth quarter of 2007, as the primary season headed into the Iowa caucuses.\n\nDespite benefiting from large numbers of campaign contributions from individual donors, and the efforts of tech-savvy supporters determined to keep his name a frequent topic of discussion on the internet, over the course of the campaign Paul was unable to translate the enthusiasm of his core supporters into large enough numbers of actual primary votes to unseat his rivals.\n\nPaul came in 5th place in both the January 4 Iowa caucuses (10% of votes cast) and the January 8 New Hampshire primary (8%). With the exception of the Nevada caucuses January 19, where he came in 2nd (14%) behind Romney (51%), he did little better through the rest of January: Michigan 4th (6%), South Carolina 5th (4%), Florida 5th (3%). On SuperTuesday, February 5, he placed 4th in almost every state, generally taking in a mere 3–6% of the votes although he did better in the northern states of North Dakota (21%, 3rd place) and Montana (25%, 2nd place).\n\nBy March, front-runner John McCain had secured enough pledged delegates to guarantee that he would win the nomination, and Romney and Huckabee had both formally withdrawn from the race. Paul, who had won no state primaries, knew that it was now mathematically impossible for him to win the nomination, as he had captured only 20 – 40 pledged delegates compared to more than 1,191 for McCain, yet he refused to concede the race and said that it was unlikely that he would ultimately endorse McCain. Over the next few weeks, Paul's supporters clashed with establishment Republicans at several county and state party conventions over state party rules, the party platforms, and selection of delegates for the national convention. In one of the more dramatic moments, Nevada's state party leaders, outmaneuvered by Paul supporters at the state nominating convention, resorted to the highly unusual measure of prematurely and abruptly shutting down the convention before selecting national delegates, with a plan to reconvene at a later date.\n\nOn June 12, 2008, Paul finally withdrew his bid for the Republican nomination. He later said that one of the reasons he did not run in the general election as a third-party candidate, after losing the primaries, was that, as a concession to gain ballot access in certain states, he had signed legally binding agreements to not run a third-party campaign if he lost the primary. Some of the $4 million remaining campaign contributions was invested into the new political action and advocacy group called Ron Paul's Campaign for Liberty.\n\nAt a September 10, 2008, press conference, Paul announced his general support of four third-party candidates: Cynthia McKinney (Green Party); Bob Barr (Libertarian Party); Chuck Baldwin (Constitution Party); and Ralph Nader (independent). He said that each of them had pledged to adhere to a policy of balancing budgets, bringing the troops home, defending privacy and personal liberties, and investigating the Federal Reserve. Paul also said that under no circumstances would he be endorsing either of the two main parties' candidates (McCain – Republican Party, or Obama – Democratic Party) because there were no real differences between them, and because neither of them, if elected, would seek to make the fundamental changes in governance that were necessary. He urged instead that, rather than contribute to the \"charade\" that the two-party election system had become, the voters support the third-party candidates as a protest vote, to force change in the election process. Later that same day, Paul gave a televised interview with Nader saying much the same again.\n\nTwo weeks later, \"shocked and disappointed\" that Bob Barr (the Libertarian nominee) had pulled out of attending the press conference at the last minute and had admonished Paul for remaining neutral and failing to say which specific candidate Paul would vote for in the general election, Paul released a statement saying that he had decided to endorse Chuck Baldwin, the Constitution Party candidate, for president.\n\nPaul withdrew from active campaigning in the last weeks of the primary election period. He received 42,426 votes, or 0.03% of the total cast, in the general election.\n\nPaul won several early straw polls for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination and in late April 2011, he formed an official exploratory committee. He participated in the first Republican presidential debate on May 5, 2011 and on May 13, 2011, Paul formally announced his candidacy in an interview on ABC's \"Good Morning America\". He placed second in the 2011 Ames Straw Poll, missing first by 0.9%.\n\nIn December 2011, with Paul's increased support, the controversy over racist and homophobic statements in several Ron Paul newsletters in the 1980s and early 1990s once again gained media attention. During this time Paul supporters asserted that he was continually ignored by the media despite his significant support, citing examples of where television news shows would fail to mention Paul in discussions of the Republican presidential hopefuls even when he was polling second.\n\nRon Paul's presidential campaign managers Jesse Benton, John Tate and Demetri Kesari were all found guilty of paying former Iowa State Senator Kent Sorenson $73,000 to switch his support from Rep. Michele Bachmann to Paul. In court papers filed in August 2014, Sorenson said that he had been paid by both presidential campaigns for his endorsement and plead guilty to criminal charges stemming from the incident.\n\nPaul came in third in the Iowa Republican Caucus held on January 3, 2012. Out of a turnout of 121,503 votes, Paul took 26,036 (21%) of the certified votes. Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney finished in a virtual tie for first place with 25% each, although Ron Paul had ultimately won Iowa at the Republican National Convention gathering 22 delegates to Mitt Romney's 5. In the New Hampshire Primary held on January 10, 2012, Paul received 23% of the votes and came in second after Romney's 39%.\n\nPaul's results then declined, despite the withdrawal of candidates Michele Bachmann, Jon Huntsman and Rick Perry. He had fourth-place finishes in the next two primaries, on January 21 in South Carolina (with 13% of the vote) and on January 31 in Florida (where he received 7% of the vote).\nOn February 4, Paul finished third in Nevada with 18.8% of the vote. Three non-binding primaries were held on February 7; Paul took 3rd place in Colorado and Missouri with 13% and 12% of the vote respectively. He fared better in Minnesota with 27%, finishing second to Rick Santorum.\n\nOn May 14, Paul's campaign announced that due to lack of funds (though despite financial backing from financiers Peter Thiel and Mark Spitznagel) he would no longer actively campaign for votes in the 11 remaining primary states, including Texas and California, that had not yet voted. He would, however, continue to seek to win delegates for the national party convention in the states that had already voted.\n\nIn June, a group of 132 supporters of Paul, demanding the freedom as delegates to the upcoming Republican party national convention to cast votes for Paul, filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court against the Republican National Committee and 55 state and territorial Republican party organizations for allegedly coercing delegates to choose Mitt Romney as the party's presidential nominee. The suit alleged that there had been \"a systematic campaign of election fraud at state conventions,\" employing rigging of voting machines, ballot stuffing, and falsification of ballot totals. The suit further pointed to incidents at state conventions, including acts of violence and changes in procedural rules, allegedly intended to deny participation of Paul supporters in the party decision-making and to prevent votes from being cast for Paul. An attorney representing the complainants said that Paul campaign advisor Doug Wead had voiced support for the legal action. Paul himself told CNN that although the lawsuit was not a part of his campaign's strategy and that he had not been advising his supporters to sue, he was not going to tell his supporters not to sue, if they had a legitimate argument. \"If they're not following the rules, you have a right to stand up for the rules. I think for the most part these winning caucuses that we've been involved in we have followed the rules. And the other side has at times not followed the rules.\"\n\nPaul declined to speak at the Republican National Convention as a matter of principle, saying that the convention planners had demanded that his remarks be vetted by the Romney campaign and that he make an unqualified endorsement of Romney. Paul had felt that \"It wouldn't be my speech... That would undo everything I've done in the last 30 years. I don't fully endorse him for president.\" Many of Paul's supporters and delegates walked out of the convention in protest over rules adopted by the convention that reduced their delegate count and that would make it harder for non-establishment candidates to win the party's nomination in future elections. Supporters and media commentators had noted that the delegations from states where Paul had had the most support were given the worst seats in the convention hall, while delegations from regions with no electoral votes, such as the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Puerto Rico, were given prime seats at the front.\n\nAs in 2008, in 2012 Paul ultimately refused to endorse the ticket selected by the Republican Party. He said that there was no essential difference between Romney and his Democratic opponent, President Obama, on the most critical policies: \"I've been in this business a long time and believe me there is essentially no difference from one administration to another no matter what the platforms... The foreign policy stays the same, the monetary policy stays the same, there's no proposal for any real cuts and both parties support it.\" Paul received 26,204 write-in votes, or 0.02% of the total cast in the election.\n\nThroughout his entire tenure in Congress, Paul has represented his district as a member of the Republican Party. However, he has frequently taken positions in direct opposition to the other members and the leadership of the party, and he has sometimes publicly questioned whether he really belonged in the party.\n\nPaul voted for Dwight D. Eisenhower for president in 1956 when he was 21 years old. He had been a lifelong supporter of the Republican Party by the time he entered politics in the mid-1970s. He was one of the first elected officials in the nation to support Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign, and he actively campaigned for Reagan in 1976 and 1980. After Reagan's election in 1980, Paul quickly became disillusioned with the Reagan administration's policies. He later recalled being the only Republican to vote against Reagan budget proposals in 1981, aghast that \"in 1977, Jimmy Carter proposed a budget with a $38 billion deficit, and every Republican in the House voted against it. In 1981, Reagan proposed a budget with a $45 billion deficit – which turned out to be $113 billion – and Republicans were cheering his great victory. They were living in a storybook land.\" He expressed his disgust with the political culture of both major parties in a speech delivered in 1984 upon resigning from the House of Representatives to prepare for a (failed) run for the Senate, and he eventually apologized to his libertarian friends for having supported Reagan.\nBy 1987, Paul was ready to sever all ties to the Republican Party, as he explained in a blistering resignation letter: \"Since [1981] Ronald Reagan and the Republican Party have given us skyrocketing deficits, and astoundingly a doubled national debt. How is it that the party of balanced budgets, with control of the White House and Senate, accumulated red ink greater than all previous administrations put together? … There is no credibility left for the Republican Party as a force to reduce the size of government. That is the message of the Reagan years.\" A month later he announced he would seek the 1988 Libertarian Party nomination for president.\n\nDuring the 1988 campaign, Paul called Reagan \"a dramatic failure\" and complained that \"Reagan's record is disgraceful. He starts wars, breaks the law, supplies terrorists with guns made at taxpayers' expense and lies about it to the American people.\" Paul predicted that \"the Republicans are on their way out as a major party,\" and he said that, although registered as a Republican, he had always been a libertarian at heart.\n\nPaul returned to his private medical practice and managing several business ventures after losing the 1988 election; but by 1996, he was ready to return to politics, this time running on the Republican Party ticket again. He said that he had never read the entire Libertarian platform when he ran for president as a Libertarian in 1988, and that \"I worked for the Libertarians on my terms, not theirs.\" He added that in terms of a political label he preferred to call himself \"a constitutionalist. In Congress I took an oath to uphold the Constitution, not the (Republican) platform.\"\n\nWhen he lost the Republican Party presidential primary election in 2008, Paul criticized the two major political parties, saying that there was no real difference between the parties and that neither of them truly intended to challenge the status quo. He refused to endorse the Republican Party's nominee for president, John McCain, and lent his support to third-party candidates instead.\n\nIn the 2012 presidential campaign, during which he acknowledged it was unlikely that he would win the Republican Party nomination, Paul again asserted that he was participating in the Republican Party on his own terms, trying to persuade the rest of the party to move toward his positions rather than joining in with theirs. He expressed doubt that he would support any of his rivals should they win the nomination, warning that, \"If the policies of the Republican Party are the same as the Democrat Party and they don't want to change anything on foreign policy, they don't want to cut anything, they don't want to audit the Fed and find out about monetary policy, they don't want to have actual change in government, that is a problem for me.\" On that same theme he said in another interview, \"I would be reluctant to jump on board and tell all of the supporters that have given me trust and money that all of a sudden, I'd say, [all] we've done is for naught. So, let's support anybody at all … even if they disagree with everything that we do.\"\n\nPaul has been described as conservative and libertarian. According to University of Georgia political scientist Keith Poole, Paul had the most conservative voting record of any member of Congress from 1937 to 2002, and is the most conservative of the candidates that had sought the 2012 Republican nomination for president. Other analyses have judged Paul much more moderate. The \"National Journal\", for instance, rated Paul only the 145th most conservative member of the House of Representatives (out of 435) based on votes cast in 2010. The \"National Journal\"'s analysis gave Paul a 2011 composite ideological rating of 54% liberal and 46% conservative.\n\nThe foundation of Paul's political philosophy is the conviction that \"the proper role for government in America is to provide national defense, a court system for civil disputes, a criminal justice system for acts of force and fraud, and little else.\"\nHe has been nicknamed \"Dr. No,\" reflecting both his medical degree and his insistence that he will \"never vote for legislation unless the proposed measure is expressly authorized by the Constitution.\"\n\nPaul has advocated for a noninterventionist foreign policy. He advocates withdrawal from the United Nations, and from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, for reasons of maintaining strong national sovereignty.\n\nHe voted for the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists in response to the September 11 attacks, but suggested war alternatives such as authorizing the president to grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal targeting specific terrorists. An opponent of the Iraq War and potential war with Iran, he has also criticized neoconservatism and U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East, arguing that both inadvertently cause terrorist reprisals against Americans, such as the 9/11 attacks. Paul has stated that \"Israel is our close friend\" and that it is not the place of the United States to \"dictate how Israel runs her affairs\".\n\nPaul endorses constitutional rights, such as the right to keep and bear arms, and \"habeas corpus\" for political detainees. He opposes the Patriot Act, federal use of torture, presidential autonomy, a national identification card, warrantless domestic surveillance, and the draft. Paul also believes that the notion of the separation of church and state is currently misused by the court system: \"In case after case, the Supreme Court has used the infamous 'separation of church and state' metaphor to uphold court decisions that allow the federal government to intrude upon and deprive citizens of their religious liberty.\"\n\nSometime within the same month but much after the event of authorities executing a lock-down in sequence to the April 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, Paul commented on the tactics used by governing forces into a harsh criticism that he has written as a \"military-style occupation of an American city\".\n\nPaul is a proponent of Austrian School economics; he has authored six books on the subject, and displays pictures of Austrian School economists Friedrich Hayek, Murray Rothbard, and Ludwig von Mises (as well as of President Grover Cleveland and Chicago School economist Milton Friedman) on his office wall. He regularly votes against almost all proposals for new government spending, initiatives, or taxes; he cast two thirds of all the lone negative votes in the House during a 1995–1997 period.\n\nHe has pledged never to raise taxes and states he has never voted to approve a budget deficit. Paul believes that the country could abolish the individual income tax by scaling back federal spending to its fiscal year 2000 levels; financing government operations would be primarily by excise taxes and non-protectionist tariffs. He endorses eliminating most federal government agencies, terming them unnecessary bureaucracies.\n\nOn April 15, 2011, Paul was one of four Republican members of Congress to vote against Rep. Paul Ryan's budget proposal, known as \"The Path to Prosperity.\"\n\nPaul has consistently warned of hyperinflation and called for the gold standard as far back as 1981. Since 1999, he has introduced bills into each Congress seeking to eliminate the Federal Reserve System in a single year.\n\nHe endorses free trade, rejecting membership in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the World Trade Organization as \"managed trade\".\n\nAs a free-market environmentalist, he asserts private property rights in relation to environmental protection and pollution prevention. He called global warming a hoax in a 2009 Fox Business interview, saying, \"You know, the greatest hoax I think that has been around in many, many years if not hundreds of years has been this hoax on the environment and global warming.\" He acknowledges there is clear evidence of rising temperatures in some parts of the globe, but says that temperatures are cooling in other parts.\n\nPaul has stated that \"The government shouldn't be in the medical business.\" He pushes to eliminate federal involvement with and management of health care, which he argues would allow prices to decrease due to the fundamental dynamics of a free market. He also opposes federal government influenza inoculation programs.\n\nPaul endorses increased border security and opposes welfare for illegal immigrants, birthright citizenship and amnesty; he voted for the Secure Fence Act of 2006.\n\nHe is an outspoken proponent of increased ballot access for third-party candidates. He has sought to repeal the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, also known as the Motor Voter law.\n\nPaul has stated that secession from the United States \"is a deeply American principle\" and that \"If the possibility of secession is completely off the table there is nothing to stop the federal government from continuing to encroach on our liberties and no recourse for those who are sick and tired of it.\" Paul wrote the remarks in a post on his Congressional website in one of his final public statements as a member of Congress, noting that many petitions had been submitted to the White House calling for secession in the wake of the November 2012 election.\n\nHe terms himself \"strongly pro-life\", \"an unshakable foe of abortion\", and believes regulation or ban on medical decisions about maternal or fetal health is \"best handled at the state level\". His abortion-related legislation, such as the Sanctity of Life Act, is intended to negate \"Roe v. Wade\" and to get \"the federal government completely out of the business of regulating state matters.\" Paul says his years as an obstetrician led him to believe life begins at conception.\n\nPaul opposes the federal War on Drugs, and believes the states should decide whether to regulate or deregulate drugs such as medical marijuana.\n\nCiting the Ninth and Tenth Amendments, Paul advocates states' rights to decide how to regulate social matters not cited directly by the Constitution. He opposes federal regulation of the death penalty (although he opposes capital punishment), of education, and of marriage, and endorsed revising the military's \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy to concern mainly disruptive sexual behavior (whether heterosexual or homosexual).\n\nPaul was critical of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, arguing that it sanctioned federal interference in the labor market and did not improve race relations. He once remarked: \"The Civil Rights Act of 1964 not only violated the Constitution and reduced individual liberty; it also failed to achieve its stated goals of promoting racial harmony and a color-blind society\". Paul opposes affirmative action.\n\nBeginning in 1978, for more than two decades Paul and his associates published a number of political and investment-oriented newsletters bearing his name (\"Dr. Ron Paul's Freedom Report\", \"The Ron Paul Survival Report\", the \"Ron Paul Investment Letter\", and the \"Ron Paul Political Report\").\n\nA number of the newsletters, particularly in the period between 1988 and 1994 when Paul was no longer in Congress, contained material that later proved controversial. Topics included conspiracy theories, anti-government militia movements, and race wars. During Paul's 1996 congressional election campaign, and his 2008 and 2012 presidential primary campaigns, critics charged that some of the passages reflected racist, anti-Semitic, and homophobic bigotry.\n\nIn a 1996 interview, Paul did not deny writing the newsletters and defended some of their contents, but specified that he opposes racism. In March 2001, Paul said he did not write the commentaries, but stopped short of denying authorship in 1996 because his campaign advisers had thought it would be too confusing and that he had to live with the material published under his name. Half a dozen libertarian activists, including some still closely associated with Paul, pointed to Lew Rockwell as the primary ghostwriter of the newsletters. Rockwell denied responsibility for the content. In 2011, Paul's spokesperson Jesse Benton said Paul had \"taken moral responsibility because they appeared under his name and slipped through under his watch.\"\n\nIn April 2013, Paul founded the Ron Paul Institute for Peace and Prosperity, a foreign policy think tank that seeks to promote his non-interventionist views. The institute is part of his larger foundation Foundation for Rational Economics and Education.\n\nIn the same month, he began to offer the \"Ron Paul Curriculum\", a homeschool online curriculum developed by Gary North and taught from a \"free market and Christian\" perspective; it is free from grades kindergarten–5 and available to paid members from 6–12.\n\nIn June 2013, Paul criticized the NSA surveillance program and praised Edward Snowden for having performed a \"great service to the American people by exposing the truth about what our government is doing in secret\".\n\nOn March 28, 2017, Paul predicted the markets would lower during the year and said President Trump had taken a risk with crediting himself for the postelection market surge, reasoning Washington was still predominantly unchanged.\n\nPaul has been a critic of Donald Trump's plans to increase the number of military personnel in Afghanistan. In August 2017, he said that Americans don't see Afghanistan as a threat to their personal security and being aggressive in foreign policy only loses Trump some of his support base. Paul has also called for Trump to bring American troops back from Syria in April 2018, on the grounds that the threat from ISIS has been eliminated.\n\nIn 2013, Paul established the \"Ron Paul Channel\", an Internet broadcast. Its slogan is \"Turn Off Your TV. Turn On the Truth.\" Speaking about the channel, Paul said, \"I was at a debate one time a couple years ago, where I didn't think I got a fair shake. In a two-hour debate, I had 89 seconds. I thought, maybe there's something wrong with the media. Maybe they're not covering us fairly. I'm just using it as a pun, but there's a bit of truth to this. We don't get a fair shake. The people who believe in liberty and limited government don't expect it from the ordinary media.\" Speaking about his youth appeal, he noted, \"They don't sit and watch TV and turn the programs on at seven o'clock to watch us like that – so I thought the technology was there. The country is ripe for the continuation of this revolution.\"\n\nIn May 2015, Ron Paul ended all relationships with the \"Voices of Liberty\" and the Ron Paul Channel to start a new internet broadcast called the Ron Paul Liberty Report. According to Paul himself, it will not cost a thing, unlike the previous Ron Paul Channel. In the announcement of the ended relationship, Paul said, \"But the message I have always tried to deliver over the years has always been the same, and that is spreading the message of liberty. Right now I am very much engaged in doing that through the internet. But, I believe we can do better. Right now, the program has changed to the \"Ron Paul Liberty Report\", and that is what we do, we report on liberty in context of what is going on in daily activity and what is going on in the news.\" Paul went on to say that it will be more locally controlled, unlike the previous Ron Paul Channel. Paul continued to say it will be produced out of Texas, instead of California.\n\nIn April 2015, Paul began appearing in infomercials warning about an upcoming financial meltdown as a result of the imminent crash of the world's currencies. He urges listeners to read \"America 2020: The Survival Blueprint\", a book written by Porter Stansberry.\n\nPaul endorsed his son, Senator Rand Paul, in the Republican primary and campaigned for him in Iowa. After his son dropped out, Paul had said that no Republican or Democratic candidate even came close to holding Libertarian views. Paul was disappointed in the Libertarian Party for nominating Gary Johnson for President of the United States and told independent voters that Jill Stein was a better candidate for those who \"lean towards progressivism and liberalism\".\n\nPaul received one electoral vote from a Texas faithless elector, South Texas College political science professor William Greene (who had been pledged to Donald Trump), in the 2016 presidential election, making Paul the oldest person ever to receive an electoral vote.\n\nPaul has been married to Carol (Carolyn) Wells since 1957. They met in 1952 when Wells asked Paul to be her escort to her 16th birthday party. They have five children, who were baptized Episcopalian: Ronald, Lori, Randal, Robert, and Joy. Paul's son Randal is the junior United States senator from the state of Kentucky. Raised a Lutheran, Paul later became a Baptist. Since 1995, Carol Paul has published the \"Ron Paul Family Cookbook\", a collection of recipes she and her friends contributed, and which was sold in part to support Ron Paul's political campaigns. His life and career is the subject of the 2012 film \"Ron Paul Uprising\".\n\nPaul and his wife currently reside in Lake Jackson, Texas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47059326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47059326", "title": "Samuel Lublinski", "text": "Samuel Lublinski\n\nSamuel Lublinski (February 18, 1868 - December 26, 1910) was a Berlin-based writer, literary historian, critic, and philosopher of religion. He was a pioneer of the socio-historical study of literary movements and a major contributor to the debates about German-Jewish national and cultural identity of the era.\n\nLublinski was born in Johannisburg, East Prussia (now Pisz, Poland). He came from a secular German Jewish family, and was the son of a businessman. He studied at several schools in Königsberg, but was repeatedly forced to leave because of his argumentative character.\n\nIn 1887, he moved to Verona to work for the bookseller Leo Olschki. Lublinski later moved to Venice. In 1892 he returned to Germany and set up independently as a bookseller in Heidelberg, but in 1895 finally abandoned his profession to become a full-time writer. From 1895 he moved to Berlin, becoming a journalist and essayist on numerous topics. His first book was \"Jewish characters in Grillparzer, Hebbel and Otto Ludwig\" (1899). His first truly important work was the four volume \"Litteratur und Gesellschaft\" (Literature and Society) (1899/1900), which examines the origin and development of Romanticism in German literature, and explores the social and cultural context in which it came into being. It is considered the first \"sociological\" account of literature in Germany. He followed this with \"Die Bilanz der Moderne\" (1904) and \"Der Ausgang der Moderne\" (1909), which articulated his personal views of naturalism and neo-romanticism.\n\nLublinski subsequently tried his hand as a playwright, but was not successful. Of his six plays only the last, \"Kaiser und Kanzler\" (1910) was ever produced - in 1913, three years after his death. One of the others, \"Gunther und Brunhild\", is an alternative take on the Niebelungenlied in which the conflict between the main characters becomes a psychological drama.\n\nLublinski was also a proponent of the Christ myth theory, the denial of the historical existence of Jesus. In his last years he researched his unfinished project \"Der urchristliche Erdkreis und sein Mythus\", publishing a series of booklets and essays in 1910 in which he argued that Christianity emerged from a fusion of late Judaism with Oriental and Hellenistic mystery cults. He also denied the historicity of Paul.\n\nLublinski was initially a staunch supporter of Zionism and was a regular contributor to Theodor Herzl's periodical \"Die Welt\" using the pseudonym Solomon Liebhardt. However, he later withdrew from the journal when he came to identify more as \"a German than a thoroughbred Jew\"; he felt himself to be German \"from psychological force\", not merely from \"theoretical conviction\". As a result, he believed that he could not identify with any other nationality. He remained a supporter of Zionism, but believed that he could never go to live in Palestine himself. In letters to Herzl written in May 1899 he explained his position, asserting that he did not want to fully assimmilate into German identity, but could not imagine himself owing alliegance to another nation. After 1901, however, he argued for full assimilation of German Jews.\n\nLublinski became embroiled in several literary and intellectual feuds, particularly about claims of writers to priority in various fields. The biggest feud was with Theodor Lessing, progenitor of the concept of \"self-hating\" Jews, who published an extremely sharp satire on Lublinski, starting with derisory comments about his \"little beautiful\" appearance. The attack led to an equally sharply worded response from Thomas Mann, creating a literary scandal in 1910.\n\nLublinski was working on a new play about Rienzi and various other projects when he died suddenly on 26 December 1910 while staying with his sister in Weimar.\n\n"}
{"id": "41448158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41448158", "title": "Sebastian Schaffert", "text": "Sebastian Schaffert\n\nSebastian Schaffert is a software engineer and researcher. He was born in Trostberg, Bavaria, Germany on March 18, 1976 and obtained his doctorate in 2004.\n\nBefore moving out of research, he was very active in the Semantic Web, Linked Data and Multimedia Semantics fields, his works received more than 1.800 citations. He is a contributor to open source projects, among those Apache Marmotta and participated in several European FP6 and FP7 research projects such as REWERSE (Reasoning on the Web with rules and semantics), KiWi (Knowledge in a Wiki), IKS (Interactive Knowledge Stack) and MICO (Media in Context).\n\nIn April 2001, he graduated in Computer Science with a thesis on \"Grouping Structures for Semistructured Data: Enhancing, Data Modelling and Data Retrieval\".\n\nIn December 2004, he obtained his doctorate at the faculty of Mathematics, Computer Science and Statistics at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität of Munich with the thesis \"Xcerpt: A Rule-Based Query and Transformation Language for the Web\".\n\nIn August 2005, he worked as senior researcher and project manager at the Salzburg Research Institute where he is currently head of the Knowledge and Media Technologies group.\n\nIn 2006, he also became scientific director of the Salzburg NewMedia Lab.\n\nIn 2009-2010, he taught at the Fachhochschule (\"University of Applied Science\") of Salzburg\n\nIn 2013, he co-founded Redlink and held the CTO position.\n\nIn December 2014, he joined Google at Zürich, where he currently works as Site Reliability Engineering Manager.\n\n\nHe wrote the following PhD thesis:\n\nHe wrote the following articles and research papers:\n\nHe is the author (or co-author) of the following books and publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "50970123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50970123", "title": "Septimiu Albini", "text": "Septimiu Albini\n\nSeptimiu Albini (June 9, 1861 – November 7, 1919) was an Imperial Austrian-born Romanian journalist and political activist. A native of Transylvania, he attended the University of Vienna, where he was active in the local affiliate of \"Junimea\" society. Invited by Ioan Slavici, he settled in Sibiu in 1886, where he edited \"Tribuna\" newspaper and delved into political journalism for the following eight years. The period was marked by several stays in prison for press infractions. His time there came to an abrupt end in 1894, when he was sentenced to prison for having signed the Transylvanian Memorandum. Rather than undergo further incarceration, Albini fled to the Romanian Old Kingdom, where he lived in relative obscurity.\n\nBorn in Șpring, Alba County, in the Transylvania region, Septimiu Albini was the first of two sons born to Vasile Albini, a former vice-tribune in the legion of Axente Sever during the Transylvanian Revolution of 1848–1849; and to Emilia Neagoe, a niece of Greek-Catholic Metropolitan Alexandru Sterca-Șuluțiu. His father played an important role in Albini's intellectual development, telling stories about the events of 1848. The effort to imbue the son with patriotism began early: when the infant was forty days old, Vasile Albini symbolically dedicated him to Michael the Brave. His childhood was spent in nearby Cut, where the family originated. He attended secondary school at the Romanian high school in Blaj and the German high school in Sibiu, and although this environment exposed him to Latinist principles, he entered into contact with \"Junimist\" ideas by reading \"Convorbiri Literare\" and soon subscribed to the society's principles. He took part in poetry readings at the home of Visarion Roman, his future father-in-law. He received a degree from Blaj.\n\nThen, from 1879 to 1883, he attended the literature and philosophy faculty of the University of Vienna on a scholarship from \"Junimea\", based in the Romanian Old Kingdom city of Iași. He entered \"România Jună\" Society, while there, he advocated for a phonetic spelling of Romanian, following the lead of Titu Maiorescu and standing in opposition to the etymological approach of his former teacher Timotei Cipariu. In later years, he would remember the friendship he developed at Vienna with a fellow Romanian student, Ioan Paul; the two would attend society meetings together and spend much of their free time discussing literature. In 1880, wishing to chart a new course, the society members founded a literary club, \"Arborele\", with fourteen or seventeen participants. These selected assumed names; Albini was \"Mugur\" or \"bud\", a name with which he also signed literary work. He took part in festive meetings honoring \"Junimea\".\n\nAfter graduating, Albini found himself unwilling to emigrate to the Old Kingdom, like some of his classmates, and instead returned to Cut. In the subsequent period, he spent a good part of his time administering the family property, but also wrote articles and sent them to \"Tribuna\" newspaper in Sibiu. In 1886, Ioan Slavici, the director of \"Tribuna\", invited Albini to Sibiu in order to become editor. Not only did the elder man appreciate Albini's writing and attachment to \"Tribunist\" principles, he had also decided upon founding the newspaper that a certain number of its staff, invariably including the editor, would be Greek-Catholics. Albini accepted on condition he be allowed to apply for a post for the 1886–1887 school year as teacher at the local Astra girls' school. He embraced the newspaper's cultural views, but was not especially interested in politics at that point. In the summer of 1886, he was hired for the school job, working there until 1888. Hired as principal the previous year, he resigned due to differences with the Astra leadership. While at the school, he taught Romanian language, history and geography of Hungary; the position allowed him to promote emerging ideas and a love for rural Transylvanian values. He was a member of the Romanian National Party, rising to become its secretary, and joining its leadership committee in early 1892. In May 1891, he took part in the first congress of the Cultural League for the Unity of All Romanians.\n\nFrom 1888 to 1894, Albini was director and editor of \"Tribuna\"; the position had become vacant following Slavici's sentencing to a year's imprisonment. In this position, he was deeply involved in cultural affairs, and contributed two rural-themed short stories to the newspaper, \"O seară la Brustureni\" and \"Un sărac avut\". Additionally, \"Un nou filoromân\" is a polemic directed against a book by an obscure Hungarian writer, Sándor Lengyel, that Albini considered defamatory toward the peasants of the Apuseni Mountains. However, he increasingly became enmeshed in political and national matters as well. This side of his activity saw Albini charged in several press trials, leading to his incarceration in Cluj for a month in 1889 and for six months at Vác in 1890–1891. In 1893, just after becoming engaged, he spent three months in the prison at Szeged. As a signer of the Transylvanian Memorandum, he was put on trial. His health weakened following the winter prison stay at Szeged, he could not attend the May 1894 sentencing, and instead waited until October to learn of the two and a half years' sentence. The state of his health, combined with the fact that he was recently married and had a newborn son, and was still a young man, led Albini to flee to Romania and avoid punishment. Another contributing factor was likely the letter of Dimitrie Sturdza, head of Romania's National Liberal Party, urging those sentenced not to accept the verdict and instead continue their struggle out of the Old Kingdom. His \"desertion\" was strongly condemned by fellow signatories who served their sentences, including by \"Tribuna\" colleagues, but Albini justified his action through articles published there.\n\nIn Romania, Albini initially experienced a period of material difficulties, eventually finding work as a secretary at the Romanian Academy, remaining there until 1918. He also functioned as a schoolteacher during this period. His actions in Transylvania's Romanian national movement became peripheral, taking the form of occasional press articles or brochures. In 1914, following the outbreak of World War I, he went to Czernowitz as a delegate of the Academy, returning with eleven crates of material for Sextil Pușcariu's dictionary of the Romanian language. He left behind eight partly unpublished manuscripts, of which six dealt with politics. These are generally of mediocre value to historians, although his unfinished memoir about the \"Tribuna\" period offers valuable first-hand insights about how the newspaper functioned.\n\nAlbini married Aurelia Roman in February 1894; the marriage sponsor was Gheorghe Bogdan-Duică. The couple had three sons; the eldest was killed in the Battle of Mărășești. In 1919, following the union of Transylvania with Romania, he returned to his native region for the first time since emigrating, visiting the places where he grew up. Shortly thereafter, he died of pneumonia and was buried at Cut alongside family members. In 1998, Ilie Moise published a collection of Albini's literary and pedagogical writings. Gathering nearly all his work for \"Tribuna\", the first section includes the two short stories, seen as precursors to the prose of Ion Agârbiceanu and Pavel Dan, as well as history, literary criticism and folklore studies. Notable in the latter category is \"Din seara de Crăciun\", which looks in detail at the practice of Christmas caroling. The second includes his reflections on education, including an insistence on teaching in the Romanian language. A second volume encompassing his \"Tribuna\" memoir, a short monograph on the \"Transilvania\" society and various political commentaries appeared in 2014. The primary school in Cut is named after Albini and features a medallion with his likeness, while a statue of him stands before the local mayor's office.\n\n"}
{"id": "39959651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39959651", "title": "Sidarto Danusubroto", "text": "Sidarto Danusubroto\n\nDrs. Sidarto Danusubroto S. H. (born Pandeglang, Banten, Dutch East Indies, 11 June 1936) is an Indonesian politician. He served as Member of Indonesia's Presidential Council (2015-2019) and Speaker of the People's Consultative Assembly replacing Taufiq Kiemas who died in office on 8 June 2013 before succeeded by Zulkifli Hasan in October 2014.\n"}
{"id": "39828417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39828417", "title": "Ted Andrews", "text": "Ted Andrews\n\nTed Andrews (July 15, 1952 – October 24, 2009) was an American author and teacher of shamanic practices who claimed to be clairvoyant. His book on animals as spirit guides and symbols, \"Animal Speak\", sold almost 500,000 copies from 1993 to 2009; the influential Llewellyn-published book is widely cited by others.\n\nAndrews was born in Dayton, Ohio; he had six siblings all of whom were given names beginning with the letter 'T'. He spent most of his childhood at the east of Dayton in the city called Beavercreek. He claimed to experience clairvoyance, by seeing things that adults could not. He spent a lot of time walking through the woods with his grandfather, learning about nature. Andrews worked at Brukner Nature Center north of Dayton inTroy as a trail guide and animal keeper.\n\nAndrews also read voraciously from the public library. A book of short stories sparked Andrews' interest in Jewish mysticism and in practical Kabbalah—the fictional story featured a group of Jewish mystics who used the Kabbalah to create a golem of mud to fight the Nazis. In 1970, Andrews graduated from Carroll High School in Dayton, a private Catholic school.\n\nAndrews worked for 10 years with the Cincinnati Public Schools as a teacher and counselor, including 7 years helping children with special needs. When he and the other teachers at his junior high school were each required to form a club for the students, he started an \"ESP Club\".\n\nAndrews read about the occult, mysticism and metaphysics. In 1987 through Llewellyn Publications, he produced his first book, \"Simplified Magic: A Beginner’s Guide to the New Age Qabala\", a guide to practical Kabbalah which was later reprinted as \"Simplified Qabala Magic\". In 1991, he wrote \"How to See and Read the Aura\", in which he says that \"the aura is the energy field that surrounds all matter. Anything that has an atomic structure will have an aura...\" Andrews wrote that the aura is a proven scientific phenomenon which can not only be viewed by humans but also manipulated using metaphysical practices such as the Jewish Kabbalah and the Indian pranayama.\n\nIn September 1993, Andrews published what would be his most successful book: \"Animal Speak: The Spiritual & Magical Powers of Creatures Great and Small\". This book claimed to help the reader recognize which animal was their personal totem or spirit guide. It has been cited by researchers studying human attitudes toward animals, including professor Marian Scholtmeijer of the University of Northern British Columbia, professor David Starr-Glass of Empire State College, and doctoral candidate Venetia Laura Delano Robertson. Robertson wrote that Andrews was a typical example of \"white shamanism\" in that he followed French sociologist Émile Durkheim's assertion that totemism lets the practitioner \"participate in the nature of the totem animal\" to connect with the sacred core of human-as-animal. Andrews wrote, \"when we learn to speak with the animals, to listen with animal ears and to see through animal eyes, we experience the phenomena, the power, and the potential of human essence.\" \"Animal Speak\" sold almost 500,000 copies from 1992 to 2009.\n\nAndrews volunteered for some years at the Aullwood Audubon Center and Farm, working especially with raptors. Later, he lived with his wife, emergency room nurse Kathy Andrews, on a farm and animal rehabilitation center in Jackson, Tennessee. He died there of cancer on October 24, 2009. A memorial service was held in Beavercreek on January 30, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1242351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242351", "title": "Tiki Barber", "text": "Tiki Barber\n\nAtiim Kiambu \"Tiki\" Barber (; born April 7, 1975) is a former American football running back who played for the New York Giants of the National Football League (NFL) for ten seasons. He played college football for the University of Virginia. Barber was drafted by the Giants in the second round of the 1997 NFL Draft, and played his entire professional career for them. Barber retired from the NFL at the end of the 2006 NFL postseason as the Giants' all-time rushing and reception leader. Barber was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nFollowing his playing career, Barber became a national media presence, notably joining NBC's \"The Today Show\" as a correspondent in 2007 and \"Football Night in America/Sunday Night Football\". He has published multiple books.\n\nHe is the identical twin brother of former Tampa Bay Buccaneers cornerback Ronde Barber.\n\nBarber attended the University of Virginia on an academic scholarship to major in business. While he maintained his focus on his studies, Barber also became an accomplished college athlete; he broke the University of Virginia's long jump record on his first jump, and put the University of Virginia's football program back on the map. He finished his college career with 651 carries for 3,389 yards with and 31 touchdowns, and 64 receptions for 602 yards with 2 touchdowns.\n\nOriginally he was considered a third-down, \"change of pace\" back, Barber became a standout starting running back and the all-time leader in rushing yards in New York Giants history. In 2005, he was the NFL's top yardage gainer from the line of scrimmage. He was voted by his peers to three Pro Bowls. From 2003-2006, Tiki Barber gained the most yards from scrimmage by any NFL running back in that 4-year period.\n\nBarber was drafted by the New York Giants in the 2nd round of the 1997 NFL Draft out of the University of Virginia. He was originally intended to be a third-down running back until Rodney Hampton had disappointing years in 1996 and 1997. Hampton retired after the 1997 season, giving Barber the starting nod. He began his career with a mediocre rookie campaign in which he started at running back and ran for 511 yards and 3 touchdowns. He missed four games with a knee injury, but returned to the starting lineup for the final two games of the year. In 1998, he was replaced as a starter and went through a disappointing, injury-riddled year before rebounding in 1999 when he accumulated 1,639 all-purpose yards, utilizing his punt return and receiving skills.\n\nTiki Barber and the Giants represented the NFC in Super Bowl XXXV in 2001 but lost the game to the Baltimore Ravens. Established as a starter and playmaker, Barber was rewarded with a six-year contract from the Giants following the 2000 season. Following the signing, he called himself \"the happiest man in New York right now.\"\n\nOver the next four years Barber would become an integral part of the Giants' offense. In the last regular season game of 2002, Tiki exploded for 203 yards against the Philadelphia Eagles, at that time one of the league's best defenses. His performance helped the Giants clinch a playoff berth, but the team fell to the San Francisco 49ers in the wild-card round. He ended the season with 1,984 yards from scrimmage.\n\nThe 2003 NFL season saw the Giants finish an abysmal 4-12.\nDuring the 2004 NFL season, Barber reached the endzone for a career-high 15 touchdowns. He also rushed for 1,518 yards and notched 578 receiving yards for 2,096 total yards from scrimmage. On January 2, 2005, in the 2004 season finale at home versus the Dallas Cowboys, Tiki broke Rodney Hampton's Giants' all-time rushing record and Joe Morris's single-season rushing record in the same game. Poignantly, Barber broke the record on the final offensive play of the game, when he scored a game-winning touchdown to end an otherwise dismal 6-10 season for the Giants on a high point.\n\n2005 was a rebound year for the Giants and Barber's career year in terms of rushing yards. Led by Eli Manning and Barber, they finished 11-5 and won the NFC East title for the first time since 2000. On December 17, 2005, Barber broke the Giants' single-game rushing record against the Kansas City Chiefs, rushing for 220 yards; he would break his own record the following year. It was his second (of three) 200-yard rushing games during the 2005 season, as he ran for 206 yards in week 8. The Giants promptly shut out the Washington Redskins 36-0 two days after Wellington Mara was buried, proper homage to their beloved owner, to whom Tiki himself was especially close.\n\nHe finished the 2005 regular season with 1,860 rushing yards (second in the league to Shaun Alexander and a career-high for Barber) and 2,390 all-purpose yards with a performance of 203 rushing yards against the Oakland Raiders in the final game of the season. Barber's 95-yard touchdown run set a Giants' team record for longest touchdown run, previously held by Hap Moran for a 91-yard run on November 23, 1930 vs the Green Bay Packers.\n\nHis 960 yards from scrimmage in December 2005 was an NFL record until it was broken by Chris Johnson, who had 968 from scrimmage in November 2009.\n\nThe season ended prematurely, as the Giants were shut out 23-0 to the Carolina Panthers in the wild-card round of the playoffs.\n\nBarber's 2,390 total yards for 2005 was second highest in NFL history, at the time, behind Marshall Faulk's 2,429 total yards in 1999. It is also the highest total for a running back 30 years of age or older. He was named to the NFC Pro Bowl squad for the second time in his career, and was voted an All Pro. Barber placed fourth in the voting for the 2005 MVP award. Seattle Seahawks running back Shaun Alexander won the Award, followed by Peyton Manning (second place) and Tom Brady (third place).\n\nHe was nominated for the 2005 FedEx Ground Player of the Year Award, along with LaDainian Tomlinson and Shaun Alexander. Barber also signed a contract extension in September 2005 which extended his contract through 2008 and increased his pay.\n\nIn the 2006 season, Barber continued his fine play in his final season and final games as an NFL player, a rarity for running backs who often break down late in their careers. His total yardage on the season was higher than any other running back in history in their last season.\n\nBarber rushed for 1,662 yards and five touchdowns in his 2006 campaign. During week 14 at Carolina, Barber rushed for 112 yards to help the Giants end a four-game losing skid. Tiki's best game in 2006 was in Week 17 at Washington, where he rushed for 234 yards and 3 touchdowns in the Giants 34-28 victory against the Redskins, a win that gave the Giants a playoff berth. In that game, Tiki set a new team record for rushing yards in a single game by breaking his own record, which he had set the previous year versus Kansas City. His 234 rushing yards are the most ever by a player over 30 years old. He also holds the record for most 200-yard rushing games by a player over 30 years old with four. Only three other players have one.\n\nIn his final game with the Giants, a playoff loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, Barber rushed for 137 yards on 26 carries. After the game, Eagles safety Brian Dawkins embraced Barber and told him, \"You're a warrior.\"\n\nAs a Pro Bowler in his final season, Barber's last official game was the 2007 Pro Bowl on February 10, 2007 in Hawaii.\n\nIn October 2006, Barber revealed his intention to retire at the end of the 2006 NFL season. Barber had previously indicated his desire to retire at some point and pursue a broadcasting career. When questioned why a player at the peak of his game would retire, Barber cited the toll the physical nature of football takes on a person's body and that he “simply couldn’t take it anymore”. Tiki was highly critiqued for his decision to retire at his prime. He declined a reported 50 million dollar / 2 year contract with the New York Giants. \n\nDuring his career with the Giants, the team never won a championship, a top goal of Barber's that he spoke publicly about in 2005. When announcing his retirement, Barber seemed at peace to leave the game without a Super Bowl ring. He said, \"I used to think my career was defined by not winning a Super Bowl. But I think looking back on my career, they'll see someone who was a competitor, someone who always played hard and never gave up.\" He officially filed his retirement papers with the Players Association on February 12, 2007.\n\nIn the very next NFL season following Barber's retirement, the New York Giants went on to defeat the previously undefeated 18–0 New England Patriots to win Super Bowl XLII in one of the greatest upsets in sports history. Barber was present to cover the event, but was not well received by most of his former teammates and Giants' fans, after his disparaging remarks about his former teammate and Giants quarterback, Eli Manning.\n\nOn March 8, 2011, Barber filed paperwork to come out of retirement. Although the New York Giants still retained the rights to Barber, the Giants planned to release him once the NFL and the NFLPA reach a collective bargaining agreement.\n\nOn April 28, 2011, Barber was quoted saying that his comeback was \"not about the money\"; however, the \"New York Post\" ran a contradictory news story in 2010, reporting that Barber is seeking to return to the NFL because he is not financially solvent, and unable to pay his divorce settlement with his ex-wife.\n\nOn July 28, 2011, the Giants officially removed Barber from the retired list, allowing him to freely sign with any team. On August 2, 2011, Barber began working out with the Miami Dolphins.\n\nOn September 5, 2011, Barber's agent, Mark Lepselter confirmed that no NFL team was interested in signing him to their team.\n\n, Tiki Barber held at least 22 Giants franchise records, including:\n\nStarting from his breakout season in 2000, Barber was known for his exceptional cutback running, quick feet, and running vision. He also was an adept receiver out of the backfield with over 450 receiving yards and over 50 receptions every season from 2000 to 2006.\n\nAfter the 2003 year, in spite of his rushing yard totals, Barber had a tendency to commit fumbles. He committed nine fumbles and six lost fumbles in the 2002 and 2003 seasons, respectively. This also includes three lost fumbles in a game against the Philadelphia Eagles on December 28, 2002. When head coach Tom Coughlin arrived, he taught Barber to hold the ball vertically instead of horizontally, of which is a common practice in rugby football. After adapting to this change, his fumbles went down significantly. In 2004, he only had two lost fumbles and proceeded to commit only lost four fumbles in his three years with Coughlin.\n\nBarber began to focus on strength training and lifting in 2004 upon the suggestion of his new running backs coach, Jerald Ingram. Barber began to work with a strength coach, Joe Carini, in New Jersey. His added upper-body strength allowed him to break more tackles and improve as a running-back. Barber improved in other ways over the course of his career. He refined upon his patience during game-play, which is needed in football to wait for blocks to set and formed holes to emerge in the offensive line before accelerating forward. Barber also improved upon his physical toughness and blocking ability, as he was not known for being skilled in them earlier in his career. Barber additionally benefited from an improved offensive line and Coughlin's emphasis on the Giants' new strategic running game.\n\n\nIn 2002, All-Pro Giants defensive end Michael Strahan was negotiating a new contract, and Tiki Barber publicly criticized Michael Strahan's negotiating stance. He felt Strahan should have agreed to the contract the Giants offered and remarked that Strahan was greedy. The contract impacted the team as Strahan's cap number exceeded $12 million and the new contract would have lowered Strahan's cap number, greatly helping the team get under the 2002 Salary Cap. \"I don't know if he realizes how much $17 million is,\" Barber told the NY Post. \"That is absolutely ridiculous, to turn that down. He's already the highest-paid defensive player in the league. He's already making more than most quarterbacks...Michael is not thinking about the team; he's thinking about himself\".\n\nKeith Hamilton, a teammate of Strahan and Barber at the time, then responded with comments critical of Barber. Players generally believe that they should not speak about the contracts of other players. Beyond that, some members of the Giants defense harbored resentment of the offense, which was lackluster and unproductive in the 1990s. \"The defense has carried the offense, carried the team, since I've been here,\" Hamilton told The Star-Ledger. \"<nowiki>[Barber]</nowiki> hasn't been here long enough or done enough to say anything. For him to shoot his mouth off, acting like he's Mr. New York, yeah, I'm ticked off. Strahan is the single-season sack record-holder. He's the AP Defensive Player of the Year. He's one of the best - if not the best - defensive ends in the game. And you tell me this guy is being greedy? That's a bunch of crap. I've heard enough. Who is Tiki Barber to shoot his mouth off? What has he done? He talks like he's acting in the best interest of the team. Tell him to give his $7 million (signing bonus) back. Since he's so charitable, why doesn't he volunteer his $7 million? He says all the politically correct things. Ask him if he's giving up some of his money.\" Despite this incident, Strahan and Barber are currently friendly with each other in public.\n\nAlthough Barber's statistics improved greatly after Tom Coughlin became the Giants' head coach, Barber disliked and criticized Coughlin's coaching style. During the coach's tenure, Barber publicly questioned the team's coaching on two occasions. After being shut out at home in the first round of the 2005 playoffs by the Carolina Panthers, Tiki made a post-game comment that he felt the Giants had been outcoached by their former defensive coordinator, the Panthers' head coach John Fox. Heavy sports media attention was placed on the comment; Tiki apologized for it shortly afterwards, saying he only meant to convey the Giants' performance was 'unacceptable'.\n\nAfter a loss to the Jacksonville Jaguars during the 2006 season, Barber criticized the playcalling for abandoning the running game too soon. Both times Coughlin and Barber met to discuss the comments.\n\nOn the eve of what would be his last game with the Giants, Barber told ESPN that he is \"demeaned and talked down to\" by Coughlin.\n\nAfter retiring, Barber attributed his decision to retire to Coughlin's unrelenting style in practice. \"(Coughlin) pushed me in the direction (of television),\" said Barber. \"I don't know if you realize this, but we were in full pads for 17 weeks, and with the amount of injuries that we had, it just takes a toll on you. You physically don't want to be out there, when your body feels the way you do, in full pads.\"\n\nThe Giants would then go on to win the Super Bowl, the year following Barber's retirement.\n\nAfter retiring from the NFL, Barber began a second career as a television broadcaster. Barber immediately landed a role with NBC in which he contributed to the \"Today\" program, covered sports for NBC Sports, and hosted entertainment events for NBC Universal. Barber was introduced as a correspondent for NBC's \"Today\" and analyst for \"Football Night in America/Sunday Night Football\" on February 13, 2007. This came after a competition for his services was waged between ABC, FOX, NFL, and NBC. As a \"Today\" correspondent, Barber anchored lifestyle segments and reports on news stories. He was rumored to be a potential long-term candidate for Matt Lauer's co-host position on Today. However, Lauer renewed his contract with NBC in 2012 and was fired on November 29, 2017.\n\nBarber is unusual among retired athletes in his desire to cover hard news and political stories; in 2006 Barber cited a lunch with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice as the highlight of his year.\n\nWhile still an NFL player, Barber gained broadcasting experience. On television, he co-hosted the morning news program \"Fox & Friends\" on select Tuesday mornings. On radio, he hosted \"Barber Shop\" a weekly show on Sirius Satellite Radio with his brother Ronde during the football season. In the offseason, he hosted a political and general interest radio program; Senator John McCain was his first interview. Barber originally began his broadcasting career on WFAN radio and the WCBS local news in New York.\n\nIn May 2008, Barber filled the spot of Willie Geist on the MSNBC program \"Morning Joe\" while Geist was on vacation.\n\nIn August 2008, Barber helped broadcast the 2008 Summer Olympics on MSNBC and was a commentator for Yahoo! sports for the 2010 Winter Olympics.\n\nOn Wednesday, June 23, 2010, the \"New York Post\" reported that NBC has dropped him from his contributor's role on NBC's \"The Today Show\". Barber was quietly let go in May 2010 by the network after his contract was not renewed by NBC earlier that year.\n\nBarber appeared as a studio pundit on the BBC's Super Bowl XLV coverage.\n\nCurrently, Barber is a radio host for CBS Sports Radio with Brandon Tierney, \"Tiki & Tierney\", a national show on Weekday afternoons airing 3 - 6 pm (EST).\n\nBarber is a frequent judge on the Food Network show \"Iron Chef America\", along with the show \"Chopped\".\n\nBarber appeared as a guest judge on \"Project Runway\". The challenge was to design Barber a dress shirt to wear on the \"Today Show\".\n\nBarber appeared with his family on NBC's show \"Celebrity Family Feud\" which premiered on June 24, 2008.\n\nBarber appeared as the guest in the \"Not My Job\" section of the NPR news quiz show \"Wait Wait... Don't Tell Me!\" in November 2008. He answered three questions about Mickey Mouse on the occasion of Mickey's 80th birthday.\n\nBarber was the 'mobile shout out' on an episode of the Discovery Channel game show \"Cash Cab\". The question was \"What is the name of the famous John Steinbeck novel that followed the travels of Tom Joad?\". Both Barber and the contestant incorrectly answered with \"Lonesome Dove\" by Larry McMurtry; the correct answer was \"The Grapes of Wrath\".\n\nIn the 2008 series \"Knight Rider\", Barber played a drill sergeant who was murdered during an underground MMA fight in the episode \"Fight Knight\". His character was filmed dressing down an unseen private and used by KITT to distract the owner of the illegal club long enough to allow for capture by Michael. He was also spoofed by KITT at the end of the episode.\n\nBarber appears in multiple episodes as himself in the 2009 iteration of \"The Electric Company\". His \"character\" is adored by women and adolescents alike and is portrayed as a very likable and forthright role model. One episode even puts him in the role of a judge, trying a case of pet negligence towards his bird.\n\nIn the Dave Matthews Band music video for their 2001 single \"Everyday,\" Barber was featured as one of the people being hugged.\n\nIn 2014, Barber appeared as himself in \"Orange Is the New Black\" in the Season 2 episode \"It Was the Change\" which was the 12th episode of the season.\n\nBarber co-hosted season 2 of \"Ultimate Beastmaster\" with Chris Distefano and season 3 with CM Punk\n\nBarber is pursuing business and investment opportunities, reportedly inking a contract to serve as a partner and investor in O Beverages LLC, the maker of fruit-infused bottled water as well as opening a high-tech cycling gym in NYC.\n\nBarber is co-chairman and co-founder of the website www.thuzio.com, which provides an online marketplace for athletes to be booked for local speaking, appearances, coaching and personal events.\n\nThe Barber twin boys were born five weeks premature. Barber was born seven minutes after his identical twin brother Ronde Barber. He was named Atiim Kiambu, which means \"fiery-tempered king\" because he was screaming shortly after his birth. Ronde was a cornerback who played for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and won Super Bowl XXXVII against the Oakland Raiders.\n\nBarber is the son of Geraldine and James Barber. James \"J.B.\" Barber was a star running back at Virginia Tech and later played in the World Football League. Barber's parents divorced when Barber was very young, and his father never provided financial support and rarely saw his sons when they were growing up. His mother Geraldine worked two sometimes three jobs to support her three sons. He has an older brother, Tarik Barber.\n\nBarber married his University of Virginia sweetheart Virginia Cha Barber on May 15, 1999, and the couple resided in Upper East Side New York City with Cha's parents living in an en suite. Cha—of Korean and Vietnamese descent—was a fashion publicist for Zegna, a men’s designer-clothing label. They have two sons, A.J. (Atiim Kiambu Junior), born July 8, 2002, and Chason, born March 18, 2004; and twin daughters Riley and Ella, born May 24, 2010.\n\nOn April 5, 2010, while Cha was seven months pregnant with their twin daughters, it was announced that Barber and his wife were separating after 11 years of marriage. It later became public that Barber had left Cha for 23-year-old Traci Lynn Johnson, whom he met while she was an NBC intern and he worked on the \"Today\" show. Johnson had babysat his and Ginny's sons.\n\nIn the May 30, 2011 issue of \"Sports Illustrated\", Barber described hiding out with Johnson in his agent Mark Lepselter's attic so that he would not get caught. Barber was quoted as saying that \"Lep's Jewish, and it was like a reverse Anne Frank thing.\" Barber's comments were quickly condemned by \"New York Post\" sports columnist Mike Vaccaro.\n\nJust eight days after his divorce from Cha was final, on 20 July 2012, Barber and Johnson married in a simple civil ceremony in a New York courtroom. Johnson gave birth to their daughter Brooklyn on December 27, 2013. In July 2016 their second daughter, and Tiki's sixth child, Teagan, was born.\n\nIn 2014, Barber supported CC Sabathia's charity, the PitCCh In Foundation, by running in the 2014 New York City Marathon. He achieved a 5:14:37 running time.\n\nOn September 18, 2007, Barber's book, \"Tiki: My Life and the Game Beyond\" was published. The autobiography was co-written by Gil Reavill. His second book, \"Tiki Barber's Pure Hard Workout\", which was released on November 13, 2008, by Gotham Books, reveals Barber's intensive lifting program. The book is coauthored by his trainer, Joe Carini.\n\nBarber has authored eight illustrated children's books with his brother Ronde.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43414411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43414411", "title": "Verdicenan Kadın", "text": "Verdicenan Kadın\n\nVerdicenan Kadın (; 18 October 18259 December 1889) was the wife of Sultan Abdulmejid I of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nVerdicenan Kadın was born on 18 October 1825 in Sukhumi, Abkhazia. Born as Saliha Achba, she was a member of Abkhaian princely family, in the Anchabadze. Her father was Prince Kaytuk Giorgi Bey Achba (1793–1848) and her mother was Princess Yelizaveta Hanım (1795–1843). She had five elder siblings, two brothers, Prince Islam Bey and Prince Ahmet Bey, and two sisters, Princess Peremrüz Hanım and Princess Embruvaz Hanım, and a younger brother, Prince Mehmed Bey.\n\nSaliha had been brought to Istanbul as a young child, where her father entrusted her and her sisters to the care of her Bezmiâlem Sultan, mother of Sultan Abdulmejid I, where her name according to the custom of the Ottoman court was changed to Verdicenan.\n\nVerdicenan married Abdulmejid for a political alliance, on 17 December 1840 at the Old Çırağan Palace. She was given the title of \"Altıncı Kadın\". Her whole family was ennobled, father, brothers and nephews. The most notorious were her brother, Islam Bey's son Rasim Bey, who was given the position of doctor in the palace and her brother Ahmet Bey's son Osman Pasha, who was given the position of aide at Sultan Abdülaziz's palace.\n\nOn 8 December 1844, she gave birth to her first child, a daughter, Münire Sultan in the Topkapı Palace. In 1845, she was given the title of \"Beşinci Kadın\". On 3 December 1847, she gave birth to Şehzade Ahmed Kemaleddin, at the Old Çıragan Palace. In 1851, she was given the title of \"Dördüncü Kadın\", and in 1852, she was given the title of \"Üçüncü Kadın\".\n\nAfter Abdulmejid's death in 1861, she moved to Feriye Palace. In 1862, a year later, her daughter Mediha Sultan died at the age of seventeen.\n\nAfter Gülüstü Hanım's death in 1865, her daughter Mediha Sultan was entrusted in Verdicenan's care. In 1879, Verdicenan played a major role in Mediha Sultan's marriage to Samipashazade Necip Bey.\n\nVerdicenan Kadın died on 9 November 1889 in the Feriye Palace, and was buried in the mausoleum of the imperial ladies at the Yeni Mosque, Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19291161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19291161", "title": "Vijayakanth filmography", "text": "Vijayakanth filmography\n\nVijayakanth with his brother-in-law L. K. Sudheesh has produced films under the company Captain Cine Creations.\n"}
{"id": "35204673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35204673", "title": "William Anthony Farone", "text": "William Anthony Farone\n\nWilliam Anthony Farone is a former Philip Morris Director of Applied Research. Dr. Farone was hired at Philip morris to make safer products and to find business alternatives outside the tobacco industry.\n\nFarone has a Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry (1965), an M.S. in Chemistry (1962) and was awarded his B.S. in Chemistry with honors in 1961. All of his degrees are from Clarkson University in Potsdam, New York. Dr. Farone carried double majors during his undergraduate years and also has a strong background in business, mathematics, organic chemistry and engineering. \n\nFarone spent eight years as a top scientist at Philip Morris, and was tasked with creating a safer cigarette that would provide smokers with the desired pharmaceutical effects of nicotine but with less risk to health. Farone was later fired from the company. Farone has given government officials and trial lawyers valuable information on industry practices from the upper reaches of Philip Morris' internal company research.\n\nFarone claimed in his testimony in the Donald A. LaBelle case in July, 2000 that it is possible to make safer cigarettes, and that the means for doing so were known to the industry. He indicated that the only way to know if you've made a safer cigarette is to test it for biological toxicity, and failure to do so means that you haven't shown that it's safer. He contended that as early as 1936 it was possible to make cigarettes safer than those that were being marketed to the public at that time. He maintained that the industry deliberately manipulated the levels of nicotine by changing the ratios of nicotine and tar in their products. The witness noted that Philip Morris continually denied causation and addiction of nicotine, but that both of those concepts were accepted when he was working as a Philip Morris scientist. He argued that some of Philip Morris' statements about the relationship between smoking and disease were unethical. He suggested that Philip Morris purposefully kept the smoking/health controversy alive. \n\nAccording to Farone who has a Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry, an M.S. in Chemistry, and worked for Phillip Morris from 1976-1984 as Director of Applied Research, the company Chrysalis Technologies who is a subsidiary of the Altria Group, a company that is now operating as a division of Philip Morris, has developed a soft mist aerosol technology for pulmonary drug delivery.\n\nthat could be used as a nicotine inhaler and could put an end to cigarette smoking, he stated in the Documentary the Tobacco Consipiracy, that this just won't happen because the cigarette companies that developed it would lose all of their profits.\n\nDr. Farone has continued to work in the same field, this time formulating and developing innovative products for tobacco users. Mainly his formula for a nicotine and tar and chemical residue eliminating mouthwash brand-named Nicorinse and trademarked in The United States, Europe, China, and Canada. He continues to work and consult on innovations in oral health.\n"}
{"id": "25489657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489657", "title": "William Keeton", "text": "William Keeton\n\nWilliam Tinsley Keeton (February 3, 1933 – August 17, 1980) was an American zoologist known internationally for his work on animal behavior, especially bird migration, and for his work on millipede taxonomy. He was a well-liked professor of biology at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York and author of a widely used introductory textbook, \"Biological Science\".\n\nWilliam Keeton was born February 3, 1933 in Roanoke, Virginia, and grew up in Lynchburg. Keeton attended the University of Chicago and received both his Bachelor of Arts and the Bachelor of Science degrees, working under Dr. Alfred E. Emerson. Keeton earned a master's degree at Virginia Polytechnic Institute (Virginia Tech), during which he revised the millipede genus \"Brachoria\". During his time at Virginia Tech, Keeton met Barbara Orcutt, whom he married in 1958. He moved to Cornell University in 1956 in order to continue his research with millipede systematics for his doctorate, where he studied under Dr. Howard E. Evans. His doctoral research culminated in a monograph on the family Spirobolidae He received his doctorate in 1958 and joined the biology faculty at Cornell University as a biology professor in 1958.\n\nKeeton was a noted and well-known Biological Science 101 professor beginning in 1958, so much so that his popularity as a professor earned his class the nickname of the \"Keeton course\". In addition to his teaching Keeton is known for his work with pigeons and bird orientation and navigation, as he studied pigeon homing behaviors for well over a decade.\n\nDuring his early work at Cornell University the Biological Science Departments were reorganized, and as a result William Keeton moved from the Entomology Department to the newly created Neurobiology and Behavior Department. It was here where he first started his research on pigeon homing, which led him to the discoveries of the effects of the earth's magnetic field, the position of the sun, as well as olfactory navigation and visual cues involved in the process that pigeons use to find their way home. Cornell University built Keeton a loft large enough to house two thousand pigeons that were the subjects of Keeton’s experiments on the behaviors and processes involved in pigeon homing. Both students and faculty at Cornell University, as well as other scientists from around the world came and worked alongside William Keeton in his pigeon loft.\n\nWilliam Keeton is also known for his work in writing the biology textbook named \"Biological Science\", that was first published by the W.W. Norton & Company in 1967. It took Keeton approximately five years to write the first edition of the textbook. It went through three editions before his death in 1980. After Keeton's death the textbook was revised for editions 4, 5, and 6 by James L. Gould (and Carol Gould). The textbook was a combination of both botany and zoology. This combination of sciences turned out to be extremely successful in teaching many aspects of biology. The textbook was one of the first that integrated zoology and botany and sought common themes, guided by the process of evolution.\n\nKeeton died from heart attack on August 17, 1980 due to a failure of a mechanical heart valve. He was 47 years old.\n\nWilliam Keeton had always had a fascination with pigeon homing techniques from the time he was a child. When he was nine years old he received his first homing pigeons which he raced and trained with his friends. Many scientists speculated ideas about the devices pigeons were using including the use of the position of the sun, the earth's magnetic field, and landmark recognition and olfactory navigation. William Keeton tested these various speculations throughout his time at Cornell University.\n\nIn William Keeton’s 1970 \"Magnets Interfere with Pigeon Homing\" paper, William Keeton proved that pigeons were affected by changes in the magnetic field surrounding them, and that pigeons were using the earth's magnetic field as one way of finding their way home. In this experiment, William Keeton attached magnets to the back of pigeons just before they were released and measured their vanishing point (in what direction they had flown out of sight) and the time it took to find their way home for both the experimental birds and with the control birds (control birds had a piece of brass glued to their back of the same weight as the magnet).\n\nKeeton’s results showed that when the sun was visible, the magnets would not usually prevent the birds from finding their way home, but when the sky was overcast the birds with magnets on their back were much more unsuccessful and slower at finding their way back home than the control birds. \nPrevious scientists had shown that pigeons were not relying entirely on the sun to navigate home as many scientists had speculated, when they found that many pigeons were able to navigate successfully under completely overcast skies. This notion led Keeton to question whether the pigeons were using the earth's magnetic field to orient themselves and navigate home successfully. Keeton’s experiments with magnets showed that there was a combination of processes being used by the pigeons to navigate home, but the use of the earth's magnetic field was very important for pigeon orientation and navigation.\n\nUnder clear skies with the sun visible, both the birds with magnets and the birds without magnets had little trouble navigating back to the loft, yet at unfamiliar locations with overcast skies the birds with magnets glued to their backs were unable to successfully orient themselves and navigate back to the loft. Keeton speculated that this was occurring because the birds without magnets were able to use the earth's magnetic fields to orient themselves in the correct direction, whereas the birds with magnets attached to their backs were unable to use the sun, familiar landmarks, or the earth's magnetic fields to find their way home. This discovery was extremely useful in explaining one of the most interesting questions of bird navigation.\n\nMany scientists hypothesized that pigeons were using olfactory information as part of the process in finding their way back to the loft. In Italy, a study by N.E. Baldaccini, in which the bills of pigeons were applied with a strong odor, showed results that the pigeons had less accurate initial orientation. Baldaccini also performed an experiment in which he reared pigeons in a loft in which the wind was deflected by 45 degrees. Baldaccini's results showed that a deflection in the wind while the pigeons were young proved to have an effect on their initial orientation after being released. Keeton replicated this experiment but found that there was a smaller deflection than the results in Baldaccini's experiment in Italy. Keeton speculated that there may be an effect on initial orientation based on an olfactory map, but the experiment was too general for proving that this was indeed what was occurring in this experiment.\n\nBooks and chapters\n\nPrior to his work on animal navigation, Keeton studied the systematics and taxonomy of millipedes. His Master's thesis at Virginia Tech was a revision of the genus \"Brachoria\", a Xystodesmid of the order Polydesmida. His doctoral research at Cornell resulted in a monograph of the family Spirobolidae (order Spirobolida) published in 1960, that garnered praise as bringing order and clarity to \"a chaos of unrelated genera replete with poorly-known species\". He split the family into two subfamilies and reduced the number of species through synonymy - determining that various named species actually belonged to previously described species. He made many field excursions to the Appalachian Mountains with fellow millipede expert Richard L. Hoffman, and also made an extended collecting trip to the Vulcan San Martin of Veracruz, Mexico. He published a total of 13 works on millipedes, in which he named 19 new species, two new genera, and the new families Allopocockiidae and Floridobolidae, both of the order Spirobolida. He also studied development and morphogenesis, and worked with Dr. Thomas Eisner on characterizing the defensive secretions of six species of the order Spirostreptida.\n\nKeeton's work was recognized by many honors and distinguished positions, including: \n\nKeeton is the namesake of William Keeton House, a residential house of Cornell University that opened in 2008. He is also the namesake of the Keeton Prize, established in 1991 and awarded by faculty to outstanding Cornell undergraduate students.\n\n"}
{"id": "438714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438714", "title": "Yuvraj Singh", "text": "Yuvraj Singh\n\nYuvraj Singh () (born 12 December 1981) is an Indian international cricketer, who played all forms of the game. An all-rounder who bats left-handed in the middle order and bowls slow left-arm orthodox, Yuvraj is the son of former Indian fast bowler and Punjabi actor Yograj Singh.\n\nYuvraj was a member of the Indian cricket team in ODIs since October 2000 and played his first Test match in October 2003. He was the vice-captain of the Indian ODI team between 2007–2008. He was the Man of the Tournament in the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup, and one of the top performers at the 2007 ICC World Twenty20, both of which India won. In a match against England at the 2007 World Twenty20, he famously hit six sixes in one over bowled by Stuart Broad — a feat performed only three times previously in any form of senior cricket, and never in an international match between two Test cricket teams. In the same match, he set the record for the fastest fifty in Twenty20 Internationals and in all Twenty20 cricket, reaching 50 runs in 12 balls. During the 2011 World Cup, he became the first player to take a 5-wicket haul and score a 50 in the same World Cup match.\n\nIn 2011, Yuvraj was diagnosed with a cancerous tumor in his left lung and underwent chemotherapy treatment in Boston and Indianapolis. In March 2012, he was discharged from the hospital after completing the third and final cycle of chemotherapy and returned to India in April. He made his international comeback in a Twenty20 match in September against New Zealand shortly before the 2012 World Twenty20.\n\nIn 2012, Yuvraj was conferred with the Arjuna Award, India's second highest sporting award by the Government of India. In 2014, he was awarded the Padma Shri, India's fourth highest civilian honour. At the 2014 IPL auction Royal Challengers Bangalore bought Yuvraj for an all-time high price of 14 crore and, in 2015, the Delhi Daredevils bought him for 16 crore making him the most expensive player ever to be sold in the IPL.He is currently playing for the Kings XI Punjab (IPL 2018)\n\nYuvraj was born in a Sikh family to Yograj Singh, a former India cricketer, and Shabnam Singh. Tennis and roller skating were Yuvraj's favorite sports during his childhood and he was quite good at both. He had also won the National Under-14 Roller Skating Championship. His father threw away the medal and told him to forget skating and concentrate on cricket. He would take Yuvraj to training every day.\n\nYuvraj studied at the DAV Public School in Chandigarh. He also did two short roles as child star in \"Mehndi Sagna Di and Putt Sardara\". After his parents divorced, Yuvraj chose to stay with his mother.\n\nOn 12 November 2015, Yuvraj got engaged to Hazel Keech and married her on 30 November 2016.\n\nYuvraj started his career from the Punjab Under-16s at the age of 13 years and 11 months in November of the 1995–96 season against Jammu and Kashmir-16s. In 1996–97, Yuvraj was promoted to Punjab Under-19s and scored 137 not out against Himachal Pradesh Under-19s.\n\nYuvraj made his first-class debut in late-1997 against Orissa during the 1997–98 Ranji Trophy but was dismissed for a duck opening the innings. His first breakout performance came in the Under-19 Cooch Behar Trophy Final of 1999 against Bihar at Jamshedpur; Bihar were all out with a score of 357 and Yuvraj batted at three for Punjab and made 358 runs himself. Yuvraj represented India in the series against Sri Lanka Under-19s in India in February 1999. In the third ODI, Yuvraj scored 89 runs from 55 balls. In 1999-2000 Ranji Trophy, he scored 149 against Haryana.\n\nIn the 2000 Under-19 Cricket World Cup which India won under the captaincy of Mohammad Kaif, Yuvraj's all-round performance earned him the Player of the Tournament award and a call-up to the national squad. His performance in the tournament included 68 off 62 and 4/36 against New Zealand in a group stage match, and a quickfire 58 off 25 balls against Australia in the semifinal. Yuvraj was subsequently selected in 2000 for the first intake of the National Cricket Academy in Bangalore.\n\nYuvraj was selected in the Indian squad for the 2000 ICC KnockOut Trophy in the back of his impressive outings for the Under-19 team. He made his international debut against Kenya in the pre-quarterfinal. He bowled four overs conceding 16 runs but did not get to bat. In the quarterfinal match against Australia, Yuvraj won the man of the match for his innings of 84 (80), against a pace attack consisting of Glenn McGrath, Brett Lee and Jason Gillespie, that helped India win by 20 runs. In the semifinal against South Africa, he scored 41 and picked 1/15. He scored only 14 against New Zealand in the final which India lost. The tournament was followed by a tri-series involving India, Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe. Yuvraj scored just 55 runs in five innings at an average of 11. Yuvraj averaged 15.50 in the ODI series against the touring Zimbabwe side in December 2000 after which he was dropped from the team.\n\nYuvraj made his comeback during the 2001 Coca-Cola Cup in Sri Lanka. He scored a crucial 98* against Sri Lanka in the fifth match in an otherwise disappointing series with the bat. However, he proved to be useful with the ball as he took 8 wickets at an average of 27. In the Standard Bank triangular series involving hosts South Africa, India and Kenya, Yuvraj managed to score only 69 runs from 6 innings, including a duck in the final against South Africa. Following this, Dinesh Mongia and Hemang Badani were chosen over Yuvraj in the squad for the home series against England in January 2002.\n\nYuvraj returned to playing domestic cricket in early 2002. After a disappointing run in the Ranji knockouts, Yuvraj struck 209 for North Zone against South Zone in a Duleep Trophy match in March 2002. He was immediately drafted into the national squad for the final two ODIs against Zimbabwe with India trailing the series 1-2. Yuvraj made an impact in his return match at Hyderabad, scoring an unbeaten 80 off just 60 balls, to take India to a five-wicket win and level the series. He won the Man of the Match award for his efforts. In the final ODI at Guwahati, Yuvraj made 75 runs from 52 balls, sharing a 157-run fifth-wicket partnership with Mongia who scored his career-best unbeaten 159, to help India post a total of 333 in their 50 overs. India went on to win the game by 101 runs and the series 3-2.\n\nAfter winning the ODI series in the West Indies 2-1, where Yuvraj managed scores of 1 and 10, the Indian team toured England in June for the NatWest triangular series and a four-match Test series against the hosts. The NatWest Series featured teams from England and Sri Lanka, apart from India. In the first match at Lord's, Yuvraj won the man of the match for his all-round performance (3/39 and 64*) as India successfully chased down England's total of 271. In the next match against Sri Lanka, he scored 31 and shared a crucial 60-run sixth-wicket partnership with Mohammad Kaif to set up another successful run-chase. India's next match against England was washed out due to rain after Yuvraj had scored an unbeaten 40 off 19 balls to take India to 285/4 in their 50 overs. Yuvraj's knock of 37, along with a fifty from Rahul Dravid, helped India recover from 59/4 to reach the target of 188 against Sri Lanka. This win eliminated Sri Lanka from the series with another round of matches still to be played. Yuvraj had scores of 5 and 8 in the final round of matches but proved to be useful with the ball as he picked one wicket in each of the two games. At the end of the round-robin matches, India topped the points table with 19 points while England finished second with 15 points.\n\nThe final was played at Lord's on 13 July between India and England. After winning the toss and electing to bat first, England posted a daunting total of 325/5 in 50 overs. In reply, India was struggling at 146/5 at the end of 24 overs, when Kaif joined Yuvraj at the crease. The pair initially stabilised the innings and later scored at a brisk rate. The duo shared a partnership of 121 runs for the sixth wicket which came to an end when Yuvraj was dismissed for 69 (63 balls) as he top-edged a sweep shot in the 42nd over off the bowling of Paul Collingwood resulting in a simple catch to Alex Tudor at short fine leg. India went on to win the game by two wickets with three balls to spare. This was India's first win in the final of an ODI tournament since 2000, after nine consecutive defeats. This win is regarded as one of India's greatest victories in ODI cricket.\n\nYuvraj batted in two games of the 2002 ICC Champions Trophy which was held in Sri Lanka in September. He scored 3 against Zimbabwe in the opening match, and 62 in the semifinal against South Africa. In November 2002, Yuvraj struggled in the first five games of the 7-match ODI series against West Indies, with a high score of 30. He returned to form in the sixth ODI at Jodhpur with a half-century that helped India win the match by three wickets and level the series 3-3. He top-scored for India in the 7th match with a 69-ball 68, but could not get support from any other batsman. India crashed to a 135-run defeat and lost the series. He struggled for runs in the seven-match ODI series in New Zealand in December 2002-January 2003, averaging just above 19 with a solitary fifty.\n\nDespite his indifferent form leading to the World Cup, Yuvraj secured a place in the 15-man Indian squad for the 2003 ICC Cricket World Cup in South Africa. He scored 37 in India's opening match against Netherlands. In the following games, he had scores of 0, 1 and 7* against Australia, Zimbabwe and Namibia respectively. He scored a brisk 42 against England, followed by an unbeaten 50 against Pakistan setting up wins for India in both games. In the Super Six stage of the tournament, Yuvraj had scores of 58* against Kenya and 5 against Sri Lanka. He scored 16 in the semifinal against Kenya, and 24 against Australia in the final.\n\nYuvraj scored his maiden ODI century (102* from 85 balls) against Bangladesh at Dhaka on 11 April 2003. In May 2003, Yuvraj was signed-up by the Yorkshire County Cricket Club for the 2003 county season. He became only the second Indian after Sachin Tendulkar to represent the county. Yuvraj's Test debut came on 16 October 2003 at his home ground Mohali against New Zealand. Batting at six, he scored 20 in the first innings, and 5* in the second innings. In the TVS Cup tri-series in October–November 2003 involving India, Australia and New Zealand, he scored 113 runs from 7 games at an average of 18.83 and top-score of 44.\n\nYuvraj returned to form in early-2004 in the tri-series involving Australia and Zimbabwe. He scored 314 runs from 8 innings at an average of 39.25, including his second ODI hundred - 139 runs from 122 balls, with 16 fours and two sixes - against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. He had a mixed tour of Pakistan in March–April 2004. He disappointed in the ODI series with 141 runs from 5 matches, averaging just over 28, but found success in the Test series. In the first Test at Multan, he scored 59 - his maiden Test fifty - as India registered an innings win. He also picked his maiden Test wicket during the second innings of Pakistan. In the second Test at Lahore, Yuvraj scored his maiden Test century during India's first innings while the rest of the batting lineup struggled against the bowling of Umar Gul. Yuvraj's innings of 112 came from 129 deliveries with 15 fours and two sixes. He made only 12 runs in the second innings and Pakistan leveled the series by winning the match by 9 wickets. He scored 47 in the final Test at Rawalpindi where India secured the series with another innings victory. However, he lost his form in the latter half of 2004 with batting averages of 31 in the 2004 Asia Cup, 12.33 in the Natwest Series in England and 4.50 in the 2004 ICC Champions Trophy. In October 2004, after the first two Tests of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, he was dropped from the Test squad as his dismal run with the bat yielded just 47 runs from the two matches.\n\nDespite the dip in form towards the end of 2004, Yuvraj continued to be a regular feature in the Indian ODI team. In the Platinum Jubilee Match against Pakistan in November 2004, he scored a 62-ball 78 in a losing cause. In December 2004, Yuvraj scored 94 runs at an average of 31.33 in the three-match ODI tour of Bangladesh including a quickfire knock of 69 from 32 balls in the final ODI at Dhaka. He had a disappointing ODI series at home against Pakistan in April 2005, scoring 98 runs in six matches at 19.60.\n\nIn July–August 2005, Yuvraj was the leading run-getter for India in the 2005 Indian Oil Cup triangular series in Sri Lanka also involving the hosts Sri Lanka and West Indies. He scored 192 runs in four matches, averaging 48. He also recorded his third ODI century during the series - 110 runs from 114 balls (11 fours and one six) - against West Indies at Colombo for which he was awarded the man of the match. Yuvraj then played in the Videocon Cup in August–September 2005, a triangular series involving India, New Zealand and the hosts Zimbabwe. He averaged 54 with the bat in the series, scoring 216 runs from 5 matches. His innings of 120, in the final round-robin match against Zimbabwe at Harare, helped India recover from a precarious position of 36/4 and successfully chase down the target of 251. It was his fourth ODI hundred and he won the man of the match award for his efforts. In the two-match Test tour of Zimbabwe that followed the tri-series in September, Yuvraj had scores of 12 and 25. In October–November 2005, Yuvraj had a quiet seven-match ODI series at home against Sri Lanka. He managed just 124 runs in six innings at an average of 31 with a top-score of 79*.\n\nIn November 2005, Yuvraj scored 103 in the first ODI against South Africa at Hyderabad to take India from 35/5 to a respectable total of 249/9, and won the man of the match award although South Africa won the game by five wickets. He picked 1/17 and scored the winning runs in the second ODI at Bangalore, before the third match at Chennai was washed out due to rain. He scored 53 and 49 in the final two matches at Delhi and Ahmedabad respectively, and the series was drawn 2-2. Yuvraj and South African captain Graeme Smith were jointly awarded the man of the series as each of them scored 209 runs at 69.66, finishing as joint-highest run-getters of the series. Yuvraj had a mixed home Test series against Sri Lanka in December 2005 as he registered two ducks and two half-centuries. He scored 0 & 77* in the second Test at Delhi, and 0 & 75 in the third Test at Ahmedabad as India won both the matches by comfortable margins.\n\nYuvraj was picked in both Test and ODI squads for the Pakistan tour in January–February 2006. The first two Tests were drawn in which he batted only once, in the second Test, scoring 4. In the third Test at Karachi, he top-scored for India in both innings. After scoring 45 in the first innings, he went to score his second Test hundred in the second innings (122 runs from 144 balls). India lost the match by 341 runs and the series 1-0. In the one-day series, he continued to be in sublime form. He scored a 28-ball 39 in the first ODI at Peshawar which Pakistan won by 7 runs by Duckworth–Lewis method. He scored an unbeaten 82 in the second match at Rawalpindi taking India to an emphatic 7-wicket win, before scoring an unbeaten 79 in the third game at Lahore and helping India successfully chase the target of 289. In the low-scoring fourth match at Multan, he scored 37 as India took the series with a five-wicket victory. In the fifth and the final ODI at Karachi, Yuvraj, batting at three, hit his sixth ODI century. His innings of 107* which came off 93 balls with 13 boundaries helped India comfortably chase down the target of 287 for the loss of only two wickets. He won the man of the match award for this innings and was also adjudged player of the series.\n\nAgainst England, Yuvraj averaged 21.33 in two Tests in March but proved to be successful with both bat and ball in the ODI series in which he again won the player of the series award. During the series, he won the back-to-back man of the match awards in the third and fourth ODIs. In the third match, he made 103 from 76 balls, and in the fourth match, he picked 2/34 and scored 48. He scored a total of 237 runs in the series at an average of 47.40 and took 6 wickets with his part-time bowling.\n\nOn India's tour of the West Indies, Yuvraj hit two fifties in the ODI series. In the second ODI at Kingston, with India needing two runs to win with one wicket in hand and three balls to spare, Yuvraj was bowled by Dwayne Bravo for 93. India went on to lose the series 4-1. His poor run of form in Tests continued, with him scoring 104 runs from four matches at an average of 17.33 and a top-score of 39. In September 2006, Yuvraj was dropped from the playing eleven during the 2006-07 DLF Cup in Kuala Lumpur after he registered two consecutive ducks against Australia and West Indies. He played in two group matches of the 2006 ICC Champions Trophy held in India in October. and scored 27* against England and 27 against West Indies. During a training session before India's final group fixture against Australia, Yuvraj suffered a ligament injury in his left knee. Mongia replaced him for the match which India lost to crash out of the tournament. In November, Indian team physio Andrew Leipus suggested that Yuvraj is unlikely to recover from the injury before the start of the World Cup in March 2007.\n\nYuvraj was not named in any of the Indian squads that toured South Africa in late 2006. In January 2007, less than two months before the World Cup, he made a comeback from injury for the last two matches of the four-match ODI series against West Indies, but did not make much of an impact in either game. Despite concerns over his fitness, Yuvraj was selected in the 15-man Indian squad for the 2007 Cricket World Cup, with the chairman of selectors Dilip Vengsarkar confirming Yuvraj was fit. He featured in the last two matches of the four-ODI series against Sri Lanka in February 2007, and struck an unbeaten 83-ball 95 in the deciding final game at Visakhapatnam. India won the match by seven wickets and the series 2-1.\n\nYuvraj made 47 in India's first match of the World Cup, a shock defeat to Bangladesh. In India's next group match at Port-of-Spain against World Cup debutants Bermuda, he hit 83 off 46 balls to help India post a total of 413/5, the highest World Cup total. After the big win against Bermuda, India were left with a must-win final group fixture against Sri Lanka. Chasing 255 to win the match, Yuvraj was dismissed run out for 6, as India were bowled out for 185 and made an early exit from the World Cup.\n\nIn the three-match ODI series against South Africa in Ireland, Yuvraj took 3 for 36 and scored an unbeaten 49 in the second ODI before winning man of the match for his unbeaten 61 in the series-deciding final game. On India's tour of England, Yuvraj remained on the bench throughout the Test series before finishing third on the run-scorers list in the ODI series with 283 runs from 7 matches at an average of 40.42.\n\nYuvraj was the vice-captain of the Indian squad at the inaugural ICC World Twenty20 in South Africa. In India's Super 8 match against England at Durban, he hit six sixes in an over off Stuart Broad. In the process, he reached the fastest fifty ever in a Twenty20 game, off just 12 balls, which was also the fastest in any form of international cricket. This was the fourth time that six sixes had been hit in one over in senior cricket, the first time in Twenty20 cricket, and the first time in any form of international cricket against a bowler from a Test playing nation. He finished his innings with 58 runs off 16 balls and won the man of the match.\n\nYuvraj missed the next game against South Africa due to a niggle but recovered before the semifinal against Australia. In the semifinal, he top-scored with 70 off 30 balls and also hit the longest six of the tournament ( off the bowling of Brett Lee). India won the match while Yuvraj was awarded another man of the match award. He was dismissed for 14 in the final against Pakistan as India went on to win by five runs and lift the trophy. All players of the victorious Indian team were given cash reward of 80 lakh by the BCCI while Yuvraj was rewarded with an additional 1 crore as well as a Porsche 911 by the BCCI vice president Lalit Modi.\nIn September 2007, Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Yuvraj were named ODI captain and vice-captain respectively, following the resignation of Rahul Dravid. Yuvraj scored 121 at Hyderabad in a losing cause in the third of the seven ODIs against Australia, but accumulated only 71 in the other six matches of the series. He enjoyed a return to form in India's home ODI series against Pakistan in November 2007. He scored four half-centuries in five matches, averaging 68, and was named player of the series as India won the series 3–2. He was also fined for showing dissent in the final match in Jaipur. Although Yuvraj was included in Indian squad for the subsequent Test series against Pakistan, Test captain Anil Kumble said that Yuvraj \"will have to wait a little bit more to become a regular member in the Test squad.\" He did not feature in the playing eleven in the first two matches, but was picked in the third Test at Bangalore to replace an injured Sachin Tendulkar. Batting first, India was 61/4 before Yuvraj and Sourav Ganguly shared a 300-run fifth-wicket partnership, and Yuvraj recorded his highest Test score of 169 off 203 balls and Ganguly went on to score 239 which was his highest score in tests.\n\nHe had a very poor Test series against Australia in Indian tour to that country in 2007/08. After his poor showing in the first two Tests, he was dropped for the remainder of the series.\nIn November 2008, he hit 138 not out from 78 balls against England at Rajkot, taking 64 balls to reach his century which at the time was the second fastest by an Indian in ODIs after Mohammad Azharuddin's century in 1988 against New Zealand came off 62 balls. \nAfter reaching 50 from 42 balls, he added a further 88 in the next 36 balls. He did so despite straining his back, which necessitated the use of Gautam Gambhir as a runner. \nThis was followed by 118 from 122 balls and a 4/28 all his wickets being specialist batsmen in the next match in Indore, earning him two consecutive man of the match awards.\nYuvraj scored 85 not output on an unbroken partnership of 163 with Sachin Tendulkar to defeat England in the First Test at Chennai in December 2008. It was the fourth highest successful run chase in history and the highest in India.\nYuvraj scores a quick, unbeaten 54 in the second innings of the Napier Test against New Zealand to help India save the game after following on. India preserves their lead and goes on to win the series 1-0.\n\nYuvraj was dropped from the Asia Cup following the team's return from the World Twenty20 in West Indies. Lack of form, disciplinary reasons and fitness are talked of as the reasons for his exclusion, but he makes a return for the series against Sri Lanka.\nWith Suresh Raina scoring a century on Test debut and Cheteshwar Pujara making a compelling case for higher honors with his consistent first-class performances, Yuvraj is dropped from the Test squad for the two-match series against Australia.\n\nYuvraj had a dream run at the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup, where he scored 362 runs including one century and four fifties, took 15 wickets, won four Man-of-the-Match awards and was also awarded the Player of the Tournament. In the process, he became the first allrounder to score 300-plus runs and take 15 wickets in a single World Cup.\nIn India's match against Ireland in the same tournament, he became the first player to take 5 Wickets and score 50 runs in a World Cup match. He took his 100th ODI wicket, with the dismissal of Wesley Barresi in the 2011 World Cup match against the Netherlands. \nIn the 2011 World Cup till he took charge of the chase against defending champions Australia. In recent years, he has added value to the side through his improved left arm orthodox bowling.\n\nIn the ICC World Cup 2011, he won four Man of the Match awards, which is joint best with Sri Lanka's Aravinda de Silva in 1996 and South Africa's Lance Klusener in 1999.\nYuvraj had respiratory difficulties through 2011 and in May he withdrew from the ODI series in the West Indies due to an illness. \nHe toured England but had to return home after breaking his finger in the Nottingham Test and later played two home Tests against West Indies. However, he then pulled out of the ODI series against West Indies in November citing an abnormal tumor in his lung.\nYuvraj had originally targeted the CB series in Australia for his return to international cricket.\n\nHis issues began with breathing difficulties, nausea and bouts of vomiting blood before India's successful run through the 2011 World Cup, which he ended as the player of the tournament.\n\nPost ICC World Cup he was diagnosed with a cancerous tumor stage-1 in his left lung and underwent chemotherapy treatment at the Cancer Research Institute in Boston, United States as well as the Indiana University Melvin & Bren Simon Cancer Center in Indianapolis, Indiana where he was cared for by famed oncologist Dr. Lawrence Einhorn. His mother Shabnam Singh was with him during his diagnosis in the USA.\n\nIn March 2012, Yuvraj was discharged from hospital after completing the third and final cycle of chemotherapy and returned to India in April. After his chemotherapy sessions treating seminoma in Indianapolis, Yuvraj's cancer showing full signs of remission, he aimed at resuming cricket at the World Twenty20. The selectors picked Yuvraj to be a part of the 15-member Indian squad for the 2012 ICC World Twenty20 in Sri Lanka in September 2012.\n\nHe played against New Zealand in a T20I at Chennai where he scored 34 off 26 balls (1 four, 2 sixes) as his side lost by only 1 run. He started his World Twenty20 campaign with a 3/24 against Afghanistan. He took 1/16 against Australia, 2/16 against Pakistan and a 2/23 against South Africa. He ended up being the highest wicket taker for India in the tournament though he could not match up to the expectations with his bat.\n\nHe got selected for the Test series against England at home. He later played 3 test matches in the 4 match test series against England after which he was dropped. He later was selected for the India-Pakistan Series in the second T20 he came back to form by scoring a blistering 72 off just 36 balls. He could not make an impact in the One Day series against Pakistan and England only scoring 1 half century in 7 matches.\n\nIn September 2013, Yuvraj made a comeback to India's limited-overs squad for the Twenty20 and first three ODIs of the home series against Australia.\nIn October 2013, Yuvraj scored 77 off 35 showed his dominance in the only T20I against Australia at Saurashtra Cricket Association Stadium in Rajkot. India was facing an asking-rate of nearly 12 at 100 for 4 in the 12th over but Yuvraj's response was so forceful that all Dhoni needed to do was give him the strike. By the end, the partnership was 102 at exactly two runs a ball.\nBut Yuvraj had a woeful home ODI series against Australia in October, scoring 19 runs in four innings, when he was visibly troubled by the pace of Mitchell Johnson.\n\nHe couldn't bat himself back into form in the home ODIs against West Indies or on the South Africa tour and was expected to be dropped for the New Zealand tour given the conditions in that country and the hosts' pace-heavy attack. He was not selected for 2014 Asia Cup in Bangladesh but he selected for the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 same place. Yuvraj performances in the practice matches were major boosts for India ahead of the World T20. In Super10 match against he missed a full delivery and was bowled by the second ball. In both matches, he put down what could have been costly misses Chris Gayle and Mohammad Hafeez but India created and converted more chances soon after. His solitary over in the tournament so far went for 13.\n\nYuvraj scored 60 off 43 balls, his third fifty against Australia at Mirpur and his eighth in T20Is. Yuvraj has gone past Gautam Gambhir to become the top run-scorer for India in T20 internationals. He had an 84-run partnership with Mahendra Singh Dhoni is India's third-highest for the fifth wicket. India's highest partnership for the fifth wicket came in their last match against the same opposition when Yuvraj and Dhoni added 102 while chasing 202 in Rajkot.\n\nOn 5 July 2014, he played for the Rest of the World XI against Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) in the Bicentenary Celebration match at Lord's, as he had been left out of India's ODI team. Under Shane Warne's captaincy, he struck almost a-run-a-ball century to rescue his team who had been struggling at 59 for 3. His 100 came up as he hit Sachin Tendulkar for a boundary. Rest of the World finished on 293 for 7 after 50 overs, but MCC went on to win the match by 7 wickets.\n\nNotably, Singh was one of the five senior players who were not considered for the 2015 Cricket World Cup and was not included in India's 30-man probable for the tournament.\n\nSingh was picked in India's T20I squad for the January 2016 Australia tour on the back of strong performances in Vijay Hazare Trophy, where he was the third-highest run-getter with 341 runs at an average of 85.25. He finished the three-match series with 15 runs after getting to bat in just one inning, and two wickets. He was not named in the T20I squad for the tour of West Indies in August. Meanwhile, he was named captain of the India Red side for the 2016–17 Duleep Trophy.\nHis team lost to India Blue in the final.\n\nYuvraj was picked in India's ODI squad for the home series against England in January 2017. This came on the back of his fine performances in the Ranji Trophy, having scored 672 runs in five games for Punjab, which included a 260 against Baroda. In the second match of the series, he scored his career best score 150, which came off 127 balls, a knock that included 21 fours and three sixes. He put on 256 runs for the fourth wicket along with Dhoni and helped the team post a total of 381. Following the team's 15-run victory, he was named the Player of the Match.\n\nFollowing the match, Singh revealed that he had thought of quitting after having been dropped from the team. He said, \"When I came back from \ncancer it was hard work. I was not performing and after being dropped I thought (about) whether I wanted to continue or not.\"\n\nYuvraj was selected to play in the Champions Trophy 2017. He played a scintillating knock of 53 against Pakistan and won the man of the match award. However owing to failure in clearing the yo yo test Yuvraj was dropped from the squad before the tour of Sri Lanka in August 2017 which ended his international career.\n\nYuvraj was the icon player and captain for Indian Premier League (IPL) team Kings XI Punjab in the first two seasons; in 2010, the third season, icon player status was discontinued and the captaincy given to Kumar Sangakkara. They came second in the round-robin phase of the tournament, but lost their semi-final to the Chennai Super Kings. On 1 May 2009, Yuvraj registered his first hat-trick in T20 cricket against Royal Challengers Bangalore at Kingsmead in Durban, the same ground where he hit his six sixes. He dismissed Robin Uthappa, Mark Boucher and Jacques Kallis. On 17 May 2009, Yuvraj took his second Twenty20 hat-trick against Deccan Chargers at the Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg. Yuvraj dismissed Herschelle Gibbs, Andrew Symonds and Venugopal Rao.\n\nThe Pune Warriors were a new team introduced for the 2011 IPL. Yuvraj Singh was bought by the team and chosen as captain. Pune Warriors finished ninth, ahead of only the Delhi Daredevils. From 14 matches, Yuvraj scored 343 runs at an average of 34.30, including two half-centuries. After much controversy BCCI had allowed Pune Warriors to have his replacement for 2012 Indian Premier League, citing his medical condition and nonavailability for 2012 IPL due to the same.\n\nIn 2014, Yuvraj was bought by the Royal Challengers Bangalore for 14 crore. Kingfisher employee union sent a letter to Yuvraj requesting him not to play for Royal Challengers Bangalore. In 2015, he was bought by Delhi Daredevils for a mammoth Rs. 16 Crores\n\nIn the 2016 IPL auction he was bought by Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs. 7 crores. In 2016, he had a very successful IPL campaign with the Sunrisers Hyderabad after winning the 2016 Indian Premier League, he also put a strong performance in the final after scoring 38 runs from 23 balls.\n\nIn 2017 Indian premier League, He was retained by Sunrisers Hyderabad.\nBarring the opening match vs Royal Challengers Bangalore, he had a average season.\n\nIn 2018 Indian Premier League, he was picked by Kings Xi Punjab for base price of 2 crores.He scored a meagre 64 runs from 7 matches at a paltry average of 12.80.He was dropped for some matches. This season was also his worst IPL season.His batting reflexes waned and his fielding was declined.\n\nYuvraj is primarily a left-handed batsman but can bowl part-time left-arm orthodox spin, which he improved in the latter part of his career. He is regarded as a better batsman against fast bowling than spin bowling, and cites the Indian Oil Cup 2005 as a turning point in his career. Yuvraj is one of the athletic fielders in the Indian team, fielding primarily at point & covers with a good aim at the stumps. Yuvraj is a natural stroke player with an aggressive style of play, as seen by his strike rate of above 150 in T20 internationals & just below 90 in ODIs. Many regard him as one of the best clean strikers of the ball, with his trademark punch through the covers a treat to watch. When in good touch, he can clear the ropes quite effortlessly. A Cricinfo report published in late 2005 showed that since 1999, he was the fourth most prolific fielder in affecting ODI run outs, and of those on the list of prolific fielders, he had the second highest rate of effecting a run out. He was previously often characterised as having attitude problems, but later often assumed leadership positions during Rahul Dravid's tenure as captain.\nHis favourite cricketing shot is pull shot.\nHis others well known shots include flick, cover drive and cut shot.\n\n\nYuvraj was signed by Microsoft to be a brand ambassador for the Xbox 360 video game console when it was launched in India in 2006. He appeared in advertisements for the console alongside Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar. Codemasters' cricket video game \"Brian Lara International Cricket 2007\" was released with his endorsement in India, titled \"Yuvraj Singh International Cricket 2007\". The Bollywood animated film, Jumbo features cricketer Yuvraj Singh's voice therefore starting his career in Bollywood. The upcoming animated full-length feature film \"Captain India\" features Yuvraj Singh as the main protagonist.\n\nYuvraj has also been involved in sports based e-commerce; he is a brand ambassador of sports365.in, an online store focused on selling sports goods and fitness equipment. Yuvraj is also the brand ambassador for the sports brand Puma. He was appointed as the brand ambassador of Ulysse Nardin watch in 2013.\n\nYuvraj's charity his own charity YouWeCan has treated over hundreds of cancer patients. In April 2015, he announced the intention to invest INR 40–50 crores in online startups, expanding the YouWeCan proposition by setting up YouWeCan Ventures in order to do so.\nYuvraj Singh also participated in the ‘Celebrity Clásico 2016′ which was played with an objective to generate funds for charitable initiatives.\n\n\"The Test of My Life : From Cricket to Cancer and Back\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47220523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47220523", "title": "Édouard Isidore Buguet", "text": "Édouard Isidore Buguet\n\nBuguet became a \"sensation\" among spiritualists during the early 1870s. He was even loaned money to set up his own studio. In June 1875, a police sting operation in Paris discovered that Buguet's photographic plates had pre-exposed images on them. After the exposure, Buguet admitted in court that his photographs were fraudulent. He was convicted and served a year jail time. According to the magician Harry Houdini, the police discovered figures and doll heads at Buguet's studio. He had used these as his \"spirit\" extras. Houdini noted that although Buguet was exposed as a fraud and he had confessed, some spiritualists still insisted his spirit photographs were genuine.\n\nThe English medium Stainton Moses had supported Buguet in an article for \"Human Nature\" in May 1875. After Burguet was exposed later in the same year, Moses insisted that Buguet was still a genuine medium and he had been bribed to make a false confession. The case has been cited by researchers as an example of spiritualists willing to believe and refusing to accept evidence of fraud.\n"}
