{"id": "55059434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55059434", "title": "1935 Summer Deaflympics", "text": "1935 Summer Deaflympics\n\nThe 1935 Summer Deaflympics officially known as 4th International Games for the Deaf was an international multi-sport event that was held from 17 August 1935 to 24 August 1935. It was hosted by London, England, with events held at White City Stadium.\n\nThe tournament saw the debut of an American team.\n"}
{"id": "9597982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9597982", "title": "1935 Swiss Grand Prix", "text": "1935 Swiss Grand Prix\n\nThe 1935 Swiss Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race held at Bremgarten on 25 August 1935.\n\n"}
{"id": "52070652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52070652", "title": "1990 October Revolution Parade", "text": "1990 October Revolution Parade\n\nThe 1990 October Revolution Parade was the last parade commemorating the 1917 October Revolution during the Soviet Union's existence. It celebrated the 73rd anniversary of the revolution. It was the first and last parade attended by Mikhail Gorbachev in his position as President of the Soviet Union. At the chimes of the Kremlin Clock, Gorbachev gave an address to the nation. It would be the first and last time a Soviet leader made an address on Lenin's Mausoleum during an October Revolution parade. After the anthem was played, the commander of the parade Colonel General Nikolai Kalinin reported to the parade inspector Marshal of the Soviet Union Dmitry Yazov. Providing the music for the parade was the head of the central orchestra of the Moscow Military District, Major General Nikolai Mikhailov.\n\nAt the front of the parade was the limousine carrying the commander of the parade Colonel General Nikolai Kalinin.\n\nMassed Bands\n\nGround Column\n\nMobile Column\n\nRevolution Day parades and celebrations were also held in the following USSR republics and cities:\nThe parade location in Kiev was changed from Khreshchatyk Street to Victory Square by order of the Kiev City Council.\n\nAt 11:00 AM, an hour after the parade began, an attempt to kill President Gorbachev was made by Alexander Shmonov. The two bullets he fired missed and he was tackled to the ground by crowds of demonstrators. Shmonov was the last would-be-assassin of the Soviet period before the USSR's dissolution in 1991. He was sent to forced treatment which took a heavy toll on his mental state. Three weeks prior to the parade, Shmonov bought a double-barreled hunting rifle. He took out his rifle and was spotted immediately by the police, and as he was taking aim, an officer ran over and jerked the rifle by the barrel as the crowd jumped on him. Soviet Central television did not broadcast the assassination attempt and resumed its regular broadcasting at 11:25 AM.\n"}
{"id": "55056850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55056850", "title": "2018 in music", "text": "2018 in music\n\nThis topic covers notable events and articles related to 2018 in music.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52524749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52524749", "title": "Admiral Ahsan Mission", "text": "Admiral Ahsan Mission\n\nAhsan's Formula (or an Admiral Ahsan Mission) was a fact-finding expedition and peace initiative mission dispatched by the Pakistani government to East Pakistan in early 1971. The mission was led by Vice-Admiral Syed Mohammad Ahsan, then-Governor of East Pakistan and commander of the East-Pakistani military, with the support from his chief of staff Lieutenant-General Yaqub Ali Khan to investigate the prelude causes of the civil war progress and to workout a peace initiative to end the political crises in the East Pakistan to avoid international humiliation of Pakistan.\n\nThe mission came in the wake of increasingly strained and difficult foreign relations between Pakistan and East Pakistan since the civil unrest had gripped East Pakistan as Awami League's demonstrations and demands for the provincial autonomy against Pakistan's central administration after the general elections held in 1970. Following the violent raids in Dhaka University by the East-Pakistani police supported by the military stationed in East, and ultimatum issued by India to intervene in the conflict, the Pakistan had authorized Admiral Ahsan to carry out the investigations into a possible Indian intervention through a cable communication to work out a possible peace solution to end violence in East.\n\nThe recommendations based on the studies were roughly based on six-point movement proposed by the Awami League in 1969 and called for:\n\nThe Mission also called for Pakistan becoming a co-federation with Yahya Khan as President with Mujib being the Prime Minister of East while Bhutto being Prime Minister of Pakistan. Civil servants from Pakistan stationed in East would repatriated to Pakistan and the national assets would equally be divided between East and West Pakistan. The proposal was met with strong support from the international community and India fell in line though reluctant.\n\nThe mission was met with support from the President Yahya Khan, opposition leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and the international community while India fell in line despite criticising Pakistan. However, the Mission was not supported by the military elements in the Yahya administration who debated acrimoniously over the scope of the mission's recommendations among the advisors in Yahya administration. Eventually, the mission studies and recommendations at the National Security Council cabinet meeting were vetoed and no further study missions were directed to the East Pakistan.\n\nBy the fall of 1971, the mission's recommendations were bypassed with Admiral Ahsan submitting his resignation and posted back to Pakistan, followed by the resignation of Lieutenant-General Yaqub Ali Khan.\n\n"}
{"id": "32714454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32714454", "title": "Asian Science Camp", "text": "Asian Science Camp\n\nThe Asian Science Camp (ASC) is an annual forum for pre-collegiate and college students which aims at promoting discussion and cooperation among Asian students for the betterment of science in the Asian region. The first ASC was held at Taipei in 2007, and was subsequently held at Bali (2008), Tsukuba (Japan) (2009), Mumbai (2010), Daejeon (South Korea) (2011), Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Jerusalem, Israel) (2012). This idea of an annual camp was co-proposed by Yuan Tseh Lee and Masatoshi Koshiba at the 2005 Nobel Laureate Meetings at Lindau. The ASC is modeled after the Lindau meetings.\n\nThe idea of the Asian Science Camp was co-proposed in September 2005 after the 55th Annual meeting of Nobel Laureates and Students in Lindau, Germany, by Professor Yuan Tseh Lee (1986 Nobel Laureate in Chemistry) from Chinese Taipei, and Professor Masatoshi Koshiba (2002 Nobel Laureate in Physics) from Japan. The proposal expressed the aim to enlighten science talented youths through discussions and dialogues with top scholars in the world, and promoting international friendship and cooperation among best young students of the next generation in Asia. The Lindau Meetings will serve as a model. The Asian Science Camp would invite a dozen Nobel Laureates or world-distinguished scientists as speakers and devise an interesting program to attract all the participants, including plenary sessions, round table discussions, student master dialogues, a creative poster competition, social events and excursion. The working language would be English. This proposal was soon discussed in a board meeting of the Wu Chien-Shiung Education Foundation and was approved unanimously by the board.\n\nThe governing body of the Asian Science Camp is the International Board of Asian Science Camp (IBASC). IBASC is a not- for- profit organization, consisting of non-governmental educational institutions. The 2007 Asian Science Camp was organized by the Wu Chien-Shiung Education Foundation with the assistance of Academia Sinica in Taiwan. This non-government Foundation was established in 1995 to commemorate the monumental contributions of Madame Dr. Wu Chien-Shiung to physics and her lifelong love for science education. Since its inauguration in Taiwan in August 2007, the Asian Science Camp has become an International annual event in Asia.\n\n\"2018\" - Manado, Indonesia\n\n\"2017\" - Kampar, Malaysia\n\n\"2016\" - Bengaluru, India\n\n\"2015\" - Bangkok, Thailand\n\n\"2014\" - Singapore\n\n2013 - Tsukuba, Japan\n\n2012 - Jerusalem, Israel\n\n2011 - Daejeon, South Korea\n\n2010 - Tsukuba, Japan\n\n2009 - Mumbai, India\n\n2008 - Bali, Indonesia\n\n2007 - Taipei, Taiwan\n\nThe First Asian Science Camp was held at Taipei, Taiwan 5 August to 11 August 2007. It organized by Wu Chien Shiung Foundation with assistance by Academia Sinica in Taiwan. Around 400 students and five Noble Laureates attended this event.\n\nThe program of the First Asian Science Camp was supported and funded by Ministry of Education, National Science Council, Academia Sinica, National Women's League of the R.O.C., Macronix International Co., Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacture Company Ltd., Hewlett-Packard Company (Taiwan), MediaTek Inc., Powerchip Semiconductor Corp., Li Ching Cultural and Education Foundation.\n\nThe Sixth Asian Science Camp hosted by Israel took place in the Hebrew University Safra Campus Jerusalem in 2012 was, by then, the largest event in terms of the number of students from when the project first began. Approximately 300 students, 5 Nobel Prize recipients, and 20 leading experts attended the event.\n\nAsian Science Camp 2016, was organised by jointly by Department of Science and Technology, Government of India and Indian Institute of Science from 21 August to 27 August 2016. The venue for the program was J N Tata Auditorium, Indian Institute od Science, Bangalore, India.\n\nThe main speakers in Tenth Asian Science Camp, 2016 were:\n\nThe following activities were planned during the Asian Science Camp 2016.\n\n\n\nParticipation in the ASC 2016 was through invitation only. The Organizing Committee sent an invitation to the contact person of each country/region to announce the ASC 2016 to high schools and universities, so as to initiate the local process to select student delegates. The last date for receiving the nominations was 30 April 2016.\n\nThere was no registration fee, and the Organizing Committee provided the living and local expenses of participants associated with ASC 2016.\n\nAround 240 students, including 200 from abroad and 40 from India participated in the camp. in addition there were 40 overseas mentor and 30 organizing committee members.\n\nAccommodation for the speakers was arranged at The Taj Vivanta, Yeswanthpur, Bangalore.\n\nAccommodation for other participants was arranged at 37th Crescent Hotel, Bengaluru, Hotel Bangalore International, Crescent Road, Bengaluru and Goldfinch Hotel, Bengaluru.\n"}
{"id": "15216462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15216462", "title": "BRL Light", "text": "BRL Light\n\nThe Benelux Racing League Light is a race-class that is mostly run in Belgium and The Netherlands. It serves as the development series of the BRL V6.\n\nAll the cars in the series are the same. They use the body and a tubular chassis of a Ford Focus. The engine is a 240hp, 2.3L Ford Duratec. The cars have rearwheel drive. The weight of the car is 825kg. The series uses Dunlop slicks.\n\n"}
{"id": "13580252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13580252", "title": "Birds of a feather (computing)", "text": "Birds of a feather (computing)\n\nIn computing, BoF (birds of a feather) can refer to:\n\nThe first use of this term among computer specialists is uncertain, but it was employed during DECUS conferences and may have been used at SHARE user group meetings in the 1960s.\n\nBoFs can facilitate networking and partnership formation among subgroups, including functionally oriented groups such as CEOs or geographically oriented groups. BoFs generally allow for more audience interaction than the panel discussions typically seen at conventions; the discussions are not completely unguided, though, as there is still a discussion leader.\n\nThe term is derived from the proverb \"Birds of a feather flock together\". The (idiomatic) phrase \"birds of a feather\" meaning \"people having similar characters, backgrounds, interests, or beliefs\". In old poetic English, \"birds of a feather\" means birds which have the same kind of feathers, so the proverb refers to the fact that birds congregate with birds of their own species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18627208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18627208", "title": "Boundary Waters Blues Festival", "text": "Boundary Waters Blues Festival\n\nBoundary Waters Blues Festival was established in 2001 by Michael Jankovec, host of a blues radio show in Ely, Minnesota and Deb Pettit and Doug Brown, of Timber Wolf Lodge. He continues to run the festival, which occurs on the weekend before the Labor Day weekend. The official host of the event is Boundary Waters Radio.\n\nSince its conception the Boundary Waters Blues Festival has showcased over 30 different blues acts, including Little Milton, Bobby Rush, Ronnie Baker Brooks, Reneé Austin, Larry McCray, Ernie Lancaster, Floyd Miles, George \"Mojo\" Buford, Jimmy D. Lane, Peach, Chris Beard, Kelly Richey, Big Walter Smith, Rita Chiarelli, Fruteland Jackson, Diunna Greenleaf, Rico McFarland, and Johnny Rawls.\n\n"}
{"id": "29892394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29892394", "title": "Bristol Festival of Ideas", "text": "Bristol Festival of Ideas\n\nThe Bristol Festival of Ideas is a project established in Bristol, England, which aims \"to stimulate people’s minds and passions with an inspiring programme of discussion and debate\". It was first set up in 2005, as part of the city's ultimately unsuccessful bid to become the European Capital of Culture for 2008, and continues to maintain a programme of debates and other events, including an annual festival each May.\n\nThe Festival also awards an annual book prize, worth £7,500, to a book which \"presents new, important and challenging ideas, which is rigorously argued, and which is engaging and accessible\". It is one of the largest book prizes in the UK.\n\nThe Festival takes place in a range of venues across the city, including the Arnolfini, the Watershed Media Centre, St. George's, We The Curious, City Hall, the Tobacco Factory, and the Victoria Rooms. It is organised by Bristol Creative Projects (BCP – formerly the Bristol Cultural Development Partnership), Arts Council England, Bristol City Council, and GWE BusinessWest, a private sector organisation promoting economic development in the area, and also works closely with universities in the area and other agencies. The Director of the Festival is Andrew Kelly, who was appointed Director of the Bristol Cultural Development Partnership in 1993.\n\nThe first festival, held 16–21 May 2005, included speakers Paul Ormerod, A. C. Grayling, Julia Neuberger, Joanna Bourke, John N. Gray, Colin Tudge, Marek Kohn, Jack Cohen, Ian Stewart, John Carey, John Mortimer, Francis Spufford, Deyan Sudjic, Nick Hornby, Julian Baggini, Claudia Hammond, Dick King-Smith, Roger McGough, Brian Patten, David Crystal, Ben Crystal, and Pat Kane Kane – formerly a musician in the band Hue and Cry – was appointed as the UK's first \"thinker in residence\", with a remit to be \"a 'constructive heckler' – identifying broad themes that emerge from the discussions, making connections between realms of knowledge ... being a 'contrarian catalyst'\".\n\nThe festival, from 9–25 May, was themed around the bicentenary of Isambard Kingdom Brunel. It looked at \"Brunellian themes of creativity and progress and apply[ing] these to issues of contemporary concern and opportunity.\" Speakers included Richard Dowden, Ekow Eshun, A. C. Grayling, Christopher Hitchens, Andrew Roberts, Lola Young, Jeremy Isaacs, Geoff Dyer, Jonathan Kaplan, Andrea Levy, Tariq Ramadan, Tariq Modood, Julia Hobsbawm, Bryan Appleyard, Joan Bakewell, Tim Harford, Lewis Wolpert, Geoff Mulgan, Philip Ball, Carmen Callil, Lesley Chamberlain, Geoff Mulgan, Chris Smith, Eric Sykes, Roy Hattersley, James Lovelock, Charles Handy, Pankaj Mishra, Paul Rusesabagina, Sebastian Junger, and Margaret Atwood\n\nThe 2007 festival, held 9–30 May, sought to explore \"questions on the arts, Englishness, happiness and affluence, Africa, big business, spirituality, crime and justice, science and peace.\" Speakers included Wole Soyinka, Steve Fuller, Clive Stafford Smith, Steve Bell, John Tusa, Billy Bragg, Graham Swift, Oliver James, William Dalrymple, Paddy Ashdown, Nick Cohen, Jasper Fforde, Ziauddin Sardar, David Edgerton, and Kiran Desai. The Festival also ran a short autumn season of lectures, with Steven Pinker, A. C. Grayling, and Martin Bell. The Festival cancelled an appearance by Nobel Prize-winning scientist James Watson after controversy about his statements on race.\n\nThe 2008 spring festival, 3–29 May, aimed to address \"many issues including schisms in the Christian Church, the impact of globalisation, science today... fair trade and transition to a greener society, changing America, the media and truth, and what the world would be like without human beings.\" Speakers included John Cornwell, Julian Baggini, Alan Sokal, Harriet Lamb, Astrid Proll, Andrew Anthony, Sheila Rowbotham, Dominic Sandbrook, Peter Tatchell, Raymond Tallis, Charles Leadbeater, George Ferguson, Jon Ronson, Jean Moorcroft Wilson, Adrian Tinniswood, Andrew Mawson, Ben Macintyre, Gerry Anderson, Susan Greenfield, Nick Davies, Simon Singh, Edzard Ernst, Patrick Cockburn, Philippe Sands, Matt Frei, Naomi Klein, Alan Weisman, Kate Mosse, Gary Marcus, and John Bolton.\n\nA series of special events were held in autumn 2008, featuring Alaa Al Aswany, Tariq Ali, Deyan Sudjic, Richard Evans, Kate Adie, Niall Ferguson, Chris Patten, Colin Blakemore, Jonathan Miller, Richard Gregory, Robert Winston, A. S. Byatt, Semir Zeki, Richard Wentworth and Paul Nurse. Other speakers during the year included John Prescott, Muhammad Yunus, and Tony Benn.\n\nThe 2009 festival focused on three themes – Thirty years of Thatcherism; Darwin and Darwinism; and Arts and Science, fifty years after scientist C. P. Snow's influential lecture, \"The Two Cultures\". Events during the main Festival featured speakers Aravind Adiga, Tariq Modood, Peter Singer, James Lovelock, A. C. Grayling, Christopher Caldwell, John Gray, Richard Holmes, Paddy Ashdown, Nick Cohen, Wayne Hemingway, Susan Blackmore, Christopher Brookmyre, James Harkin, Tariq Ramadan, David Aaronovitch, Bruce Hood, Geoff Dyer, Tristram Hunt, Marcus du Sautoy, Ben Goldacre, Ruth Padel, Richard Fortey, and Gillian Beer. A programme of events was also held throughout the rest of year. Speakers included Clay Shirky, Michael Shermer, Ken Robinson, Leonard Susskind, Steve Jones, Misha Glenny, Daniel Dennett, John Armstrong, Chris Anderson, Edward de Bono, Karen Armstrong, Amartya Sen, Margaret Atwood, Richard Dawkins, Sarah Dunant, John Kampfner, Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, Simon Schama, Tristram Stuart, Rose George, Zac Goldsmith, Gillian Tett, Neal Lawson, Michael Mansfield, Vic Reeves, Shappi Khorsandi, Alan Davies, Bruce Hood, John Micklethwait, Madeleine Bunting, David Attenborough, David Puttnam, William Waldegrave, Raj Patel, Vince Cable, Virginia Ironside, and Suzanne Moore.\n\nIn January 2009, the Festival commissioned an artwork to depict people and products that made Bristol famous, as an updated version of a 1930 painting by Ernest Board (1877–1934), \"Some Who Have Made Bristol Famous\", displayed in the Bristol City Museum and Art Gallery. The commission was won by Simon Gurr, and a final list of subjects to appear in the updated version was agreed in 2010. They include Wallace and Gromit; a special Festival event was held in December 2009, chaired by Christopher Frayling, to mark the 20th anniversary of the creation of the characters by Aardman Animations, based in Bristol.\n\nIn 2010, special themes included paranoia, inequality, and animal rights, together with \"The Bristol Phenomenon\", looking at creativity in Bristol through time. Speakers included Barbara Ehrenreich, Stewart Brand, Brian Eno, Albie Sachs, Rebecca Goldstein, Steven Pinker, Germaine Greer, Paul Davies, Phillip Blond, Peter Singer, Christopher Frayling, John Boorman, Will Hutton, Richard Wilkinson, Paul Collier, Norman Stone, Wendy Grossman, Simon Hoggart, Peter Hitchens, Ben Shephard, Ben Goldacre, Francis Wheen, Richard Holloway, Andrea Levy, Mike Hodges, Melvyn Bragg, Dorothy Rowe, David Eagleman, Anthony Julius, John O'Farrell, Antonia Fraser, Brooke Magnanti, Gary Younge, Christopher Hitchens, Annie Leonard, Barbara Ehrenreich, Bernhard Schlink, and Will Self.\n\nProgrammed speakers in the first part of the year included Jimmy Wales and Evgeny Morozov. The main Festival of Ideas took place 13–22 May 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "28336009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28336009", "title": "Chew the fat", "text": "Chew the fat\n\n\"Chew the fat\" or \"chew the rag\" are English expressions for gossiping or making friendly small talk, or a long and informal conversation with someone.\n\nAlthough some sources attribute the phrase \"chew the fat\" to sailors, who during a period of resting and conversing, or while working together, would chew on salt-hardened fat, there are no reliable historical recordings of this practice. There is even a suggestion the phrase derives from a practice by North American Indians or Inuit of chewing animal hides during their spare time, and even of British farmers chewing on smoked pork, but again, there remains to be no evidence supporting these claims, and this would require accepting a great deal of uncertainty in connecting the phrase from nautical origins to its modern metaphorical use.\n\nThere are also claims the phrase is synonymous with the action of chewing on fat, or simply an allusion to the movement of the mouth during chewing. Noting that fried fat is appealing in taste, it was regarded as a treat that someone could chew on for as long as possible to gain the most out of it.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" earliest citation for \"Chew the fat\" is from 1885 in a book by J Brunlees Patterson called \"Life in the Ranks of the British Army in India\". He implied it was a kind of general grumbling and bending of the ears of junior officers to stave off boredom, a typical part of army life. Patterson also uses \"chew the rag\" in the same sentence he used \"chew the fat\", but it is not the oldest occurrence of that phrase. Prior to the adoption of metallic cartridges, most ammunition was composed of powder and a ball wrapped in paper or cloth soaked in animal fat, which was bitten open during musket drill. Soldiers were known to chew on these ends to pass the time and reduce nerves, and in some cases to stave off cravings for chewing tobacco. Though long-since replaced by 1885, the idea of biting or chewing on fat-soaked rag ends may well have entered military parlance in this fashion prior to Patterson's recording.\n\nAppearing first in print from 1875 in \"Random House Historical Dictionary of American Slang\", the excerpt reads:\nThere is speculation this phrase relates to cloth, when ladies would work in \"sewing circles\", or that women may have gossiped while quilting.\n\nThe first appeared synonymously as early as 1885, in J. Brunlees Patterson's \"Life in the ranks of the British army in India and on board a troopship\", which listed the terms in succession:\n\nIt was used as a way to describe complaining or grumbling, typically by the military.\n\nIt was not until 1907 the phrase \"chew the fat\" was used to express partaking in idle conversation, for a friendly talk, or a gossip session. It has also been used to a way to define telling tall tales.\n\nIn ham radio, extended conversation, as opposed to just exchanging basic information (name, location, equipment), is called \"ragchewing\".\n\n\"Chewin' the Fat\" was the title of a Scottish comedy sketch show, starring Ford Kiernan, Greg Hemphill and Karen Dunbar. \"Chewin' the Fat\" first started as a radio series on BBC Radio Scotland.\n\n\"Chew-The-Fat.com\" is a UK-based website (now moved to chew-the-fat.org.uk) hosting a web forum, described as \"The chat forum your mother warned you about\", devoted to chat, gossip, and humorous banter and cartoons.\n\nIn 1999, a widespread hoax called \"Life in the 1500s\", false information was circulated through email regarding \"chew the fat\". Among offering explanations for many phrases, the email stated:\nThe false email spurred a reexamination of popularly sourced etymologies of many folk phrases and idioms. Although it has been widely accepted as accurate, this misinformation has since been dispelled.\n\nMusic album by James Patrick Gavin- Chewing The Fat"}
{"id": "2758685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2758685", "title": "Chuncheon Puppet Festival", "text": "Chuncheon Puppet Festival\n\nChuncheon Puppet festival is an annual puppet festival held in Chuncheon, South Korea that includes both Korean and international performers. \n\nIt takes place now early October at the Chuncheon Puppet Theatre.(춘천인형극장)\n\n"}
{"id": "1485171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1485171", "title": "Cromwellian conquest of Ireland", "text": "Cromwellian conquest of Ireland\n\nThe Cromwellian conquest of Ireland or Cromwellian war in Ireland (1649–53) refers to the conquest of Ireland by the forces of the English Parliament, led by Oliver Cromwell, during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms. Cromwell invaded Ireland with his New Model Army on behalf of England's Rump Parliament in August 1649.\n\nFollowing the Irish Rebellion of 1641, most of Ireland came under the control of the Irish Catholic Confederation. In early 1649, the Confederates allied with the English Royalists, who had been defeated by the Parliamentarians in the English Civil War. By May 1652, Cromwell's Parliamentarian army had defeated the Confederate and Royalist coalition in Ireland and occupied the country—bringing to an end the Irish Confederate Wars (or Eleven Years' War). However, guerrilla warfare continued for a further year. Cromwell passed a series of Penal Laws against Roman Catholics (the vast majority of the population) and confiscated large amounts of their land.\n\nThe Parliamentarian reconquest of Ireland was brutal, and Cromwell is still a hated figure in Ireland. The extent to which Cromwell, who was in direct command for the first year of the campaign, was responsible for the atrocities is debated to this day. Some historians argue that the actions of Cromwell were within the then-accepted rules of war, or were exaggerated or distorted by later propagandists; these claims have been challenged by others.\n\nThe impact of the war on the Irish population was unquestionably severe, although there is no consensus as to the magnitude of the loss of life. The war resulted in famine, which was worsened by an outbreak of bubonic plague. Estimates of the drop in the Irish population resulting from the Parliamentarian campaign range from 15 to 83 percent. The Parliamentarians also transported about 50,000 people as indentured labourers. Some estimates cover population losses over the course of the Conquest Period (1649–52) only, while others cover the period of the Conquest to 1653 and the period of the Cromwellian Settlement from August 1652 to 1659 together.\n\nThe English Rump Parliament, victorious in the English Civil War, and having executed King Charles in January 1649, had several reasons for sending the New Model Army to Ireland in 1649.\n\nThe first and most pressing reason was an alliance signed in 1649 between the Irish Confederate Catholics, Charles II (who had been proclaimed King of Ireland in January 1649), and the English Royalists. This allowed for Royalist troops to be sent to Ireland and put the Irish Confederate Catholic troops under the command of Royalist officers led by James Butler, Earl of Ormonde. Their aim was to invade England and restore the monarchy there. This was a threat which the new English Commonwealth could not afford to ignore.\n\nSecondly, Parliament also had a longstanding commitment to re-conquer Ireland dating back to the Irish Rebellion of 1641. Even if the Irish Confederates had not allied themselves with the Royalists, it is likely that the English Parliament would have eventually tried to invade the country to crush Catholic power there. They had sent Parliamentary forces to Ireland throughout the Wars of the Three Kingdoms (most of them under Michael Jones in 1647). They viewed Ireland as part of the territory governed by right by the Kingdom of England and only temporarily out of its control since the Rebellion of 1641. Many Parliamentarians wished to punish the Irish for atrocities against English Protestant settlers during the 1641 Uprising. Furthermore, some Irish towns (notably Wexford and Waterford) had acted as bases from which privateers had attacked English shipping throughout the 1640s.\n\nIn addition, the English Parliament had a financial imperative to invade Ireland to confiscate land there in order to repay its creditors. The Parliament had raised loans of £10 million under the Adventurers Act to subdue Ireland since 1642, on the basis that its creditors would be repaid with land confiscated from Irish Catholic rebels. To repay these loans, it would be necessary to conquer Ireland and confiscate such land. The Parliamentarians also had internal political reasons to send forces to Ireland. Army mutinies at Banbury and Bishopsgate in April and May 1649 were unsettling the New Model Army, and the soldiers' demands would probably increase if they were left idle. \n\nFinally, for some Parliamentarians, the war in Ireland was a religious war. Cromwell and much of his army were Puritans who considered all Roman Catholics to be heretics, and so for them the conquest was partly a crusade. The Irish Confederates had been supplied with arms and money by the Papacy and had welcomed the papal legate Pierfrancesco Scarampi and later the Papal Nuncio Giovanni Battista Rinuccini in 1643–49.\n\nBy the end of the period, known as Confederate Ireland, in 1649 the only remaining Parliamentarian outpost in Ireland was in Dublin, under the command of Colonel Michael Jones. A combined Royalist and Confederate force under the Marquess of Ormonde gathered at Rathmines, south of Dublin, to take the city and deprive the Parliamentarians of a port in which they could land. Jones, however, launched a surprise attack on the Royalists while they were deploying on 2 August, putting them to flight. Jones claimed to have killed around 4,000 Royalist or Confederate soldiers and taken 2,517 prisoners.\n\nOliver Cromwell called the battle \"an astonishing mercy, so great and seasonable that we are like them that dreamed\", as it meant that he had a secure port at which he could land his army in Ireland, and that he retained the capital city. With Admiral Robert Blake blockading the remaining Royalist fleet under Prince Rupert of the Rhine in Kinsale, Cromwell landed on 15 August with thirty-five ships filled with troops and equipment. Henry Ireton landed two days later with a further seventy-seven ships.\n\nOrmonde's troops retreated from around Dublin in disarray. They were badly demoralised by their unexpected defeat at Rathmines and were incapable of fighting another pitched battle in the short term. As a result, Ormonde hoped to hold the walled towns on Ireland's east coast to hold up the Cromwellian advance until the winter, when he hoped that \"Colonel Hunger and Major Sickness\" (i.e. hunger and disease) would deplete their ranks.\n\nUpon landing, Cromwell proceeded to take the other port cities on Ireland's east coast, to facilitate the efficient landing of supplies and reinforcements from England. The first town to fall was Drogheda, about 50 km north of Dublin. Drogheda was garrisoned by a regiment of 3,000 English Royalist and Irish Confederate soldiers, commanded by Arthur Aston. After a week-long siege, Cromwell's forces breached the walls protecting the town. Aston refused Cromwell's request that he surrender. In the ensuing battle for the town, Cromwell ordered that no quarter be given, and the majority of the garrison and Catholic priests were killed. Many civilians also died in the sack. Aston was beaten to death by the Roundheads with his own wooden leg.\n\nThe massacre of the garrison in Drogheda, including some after they had surrendered and some who had sheltered in a church, was received with horror in Ireland and is used today as an example of Cromwell's extreme cruelty. Tom Reilly in \"Cromwell, an Honourable Enemy\" (Dingle 1999), argues that what happened at Drogheda was not unusually severe by the standards of 17th century siege warfare. In \"Cromwell was Framed\" (2014), he claims that civilians were not targeted.\n\nHaving taken Drogheda, Cromwell took most of his army south to secure the south western ports. He sent a detachment of 5,000 men north under Robert Venables to take eastern Ulster from the remnants of a Scottish Covenanter army that had landed there in 1642. They defeated the Scots at the Battle of Lisnagarvey (6 December 1649) and linked up with a Parliamentarian army composed of English settlers based around Derry in western Ulster, which was commanded by Charles Coote.\n\nThe New Model Army then marched south to secure the ports of Wexford, Waterford and Duncannon. Wexford was the scene of another infamous atrocity, when Parliamentarian troops broke into the town while negotiations for its surrender were ongoing, and sacked it, killing about 2,000 soldiers and 1,500 townspeople and burning much of the town. Cromwell's responsibility for the sack of Wexford is disputed. He did not order the attack on the town, and had been in the process of negotiating its surrender when his troops broke into the town. On the other hand, his critics point out that he made little effort to restrain his troops or to punish them afterwards for their conduct.\n\nArguably, the sack of Wexford was somewhat counter-productive for the Parliamentarians. The destruction of the town meant that the Parliamentarians could not use its port as a base for supplying their forces in Ireland. Secondly, the effects of the severe measures adopted at Drogheda and at Wexford were mixed. To some degree they may have been effective in discouraging future resistance.\n\nThe Royalist commander Ormonde thought that the terror of Cromwell's army had a paralysing effect on his forces. Towns like New Ross and Carlow subsequently surrendered on terms when besieged by Cromwell's forces. On the other hand, the massacres of the defenders of Drogheda and Wexford prolonged resistance elsewhere, as they convinced many Irish Catholics that they would be killed even if they surrendered.\n\nSuch towns as Waterford, Duncannon, Clonmel, Limerick and Galway only surrendered after determined resistance. Cromwell was unable to take Waterford or Duncannon and the New Model Army had to retire to winter quarters, where many of its men died of disease, especially typhoid and dysentery. The port city of Waterford and Duncannon town eventually surrendered after prolonged sieges in 1650.\n\nThe following spring, Cromwell mopped up the remaining walled towns in Ireland's southeast—notably the Confederate capital of Kilkenny, which surrendered on terms: see Siege of Kilkenny. The New Model Army met its only serious reverse in Ireland at the Siege of Clonmel, where its attacks on the towns walls were repulsed at a cost of up to 2,000 men. The town nevertheless surrendered the following day.\n\nCromwell's treatment of Kilkenny and Clonmel is in contrast to that of Drogheda and Wexford. Despite the fact that his troops had suffered heavy casualties attacking the former two, Cromwell respected surrender terms which guaranteed the lives and property of the townspeople and the evacuation of armed Irish troops who were defending them. The change in attitude on the part of the Parliamentarian commander may have been a recognition that excessive cruelty was prolonging Irish resistance. However, in the case of Drogheda and Wexford no surrender agreement had been negotiated, and by the rules of continental siege warfare prevalent in the mid-17th century, this meant no quarter would be given; thus it can be argued that Cromwell's attitude had not changed.\n\nOrmonde's Royalists still held most of Munster, but were outflanked by a mutiny of their own garrison in Cork. The British Protestant troops there had been fighting for the Parliament up to 1648 and resented fighting with the Irish Confederates. Their mutiny handed Cork and most of Munster to Cromwell and they defeated the local Irish garrison at the Battle of Macroom. The Irish and Royalist forces retreated behind the River Shannon into Connacht or (in the case of the remaining Munster forces) into the fastness of Kerry.\n\nIn May 1650, Charles II repudiated his father's (Charles I's) alliance with the Irish Confederates in preference for an alliance with the Scottish Covenanters (see Treaty of Breda). This totally undermined Ormonde's position as head of a Royalist coalition in Ireland. Cromwell published generous surrender terms for Protestant Royalists in Ireland and many of them either capitulated or went over to the Parliamentarian side.\n\nThis left in the field only the remaining Irish Catholic armies and a few diehard English Royalists. From this point onwards, many Irish Catholics, including their bishops and clergy, questioned why they should accept Ormonde's leadership when his master, the King, had repudiated his alliance with them. Cromwell left Ireland in May 1650 to fight the Third English Civil War against the new Scottish-Royalist alliance. He passed his command onto Henry Ireton.\n\nThe most formidable force left to the Irish and Royalists was the 6,000 strong army of Ulster, formerly commanded by Owen Roe O'Neill, who died in 1649. However the army was now commanded by an inexperienced Catholic bishop named Heber MacMahon. The Ulster Army met a Parliamentarian army, composed mainly of British settlers and commanded by Charles Coote, at the Battle of Scarrifholis in County Donegal in June 1650. The Ulster army was routed and as many as 2,000 of its men were killed. In addition, MacMahon and most of the Ulster Army's officers were either killed at the battle or captured and executed after it. This eliminated the last strong field army opposing the Parliamentarians in Ireland and secured for them the northern province of Ulster. Coote's army, despite suffering heavy losses at the Siege of Charlemont, the last Catholic stronghold in the north, was now free to march south and invade the west coast of Ireland.\n\nThe Parliamentarians crossed the Shannon into the western province of Connacht in October 1650. An Irish army under Clanricarde had attempted to stop them but this was surprised and routed at the Battle of Meelick Island. Ormonde was discredited by the constant stream of defeats for the Irish and Royalist forces and no longer had the confidence of the men he commanded, particularly the Irish Confederates. He fled for France in December 1650 and was replaced by an Irish nobleman Ulick Burke of Clanricarde as commander. The Irish and Royalist forces were penned into the area west of the river Shannon and placed their last hope on defending the strongly walled cities of Limerick and Galway on Ireland's west coast. These cities had built extensive modern defences and could not be taken by a straightforward assault as at Drogheda or Wexford. Ireton besieged Limerick while Charles Coote surrounded Galway, but they were unable to take the strongly fortified cities and instead blockaded them until a combination of hunger and disease forced them to surrender. An Irish force from Kerry attempted to relieve Limerick from the south, but this was intercepted and routed at the Battle of Knocknaclashy. Limerick fell in 1651 and Galway the following year. Disease however killed indiscriminately and Ireton, along with thousands of Parliamentarian troops, died of plague outside Limerick in 1651.\n\nThe fall of Galway saw the end of organised resistance to the Cromwellian conquest, but fighting continued as small units of Irish troops launched guerrilla attacks on the Parliamentarians.\n\nThe guerrilla phase of the war had been going since late 1650 and at the end of 1651, despite the defeat of the main Irish or Royalist forces, there were still estimated to be 30,000 men in arms against the Parliamentarians. Tories (from the Irish word \"tóraidhe\" meaning, \"pursued man\") operated from difficult terrain such as the Bog of Allen, the Wicklow Mountains and the drumlin country in the north midlands, and within months, made the countryside extremely dangerous for all except large parties of Parliamentarian troops. Ireton mounted a punitive expedition to the Wicklow mountains in 1650 to try to put down the tories there, but without success.\n\nBy early 1651, it was reported that no English supply convoys were safe if they travelled more than two miles outside a military base. In response, the Parliamentarians destroyed food supplies and forcibly evicted civilians who were thought to be helping the Tories. John Hewson systematically destroyed food stocks in counties Wicklow and Kildare, Hardress Waller did likewise in the Burren in County Clare, as did Colonel Cook in County Wexford. The result was famine throughout much of Ireland, aggravated by an outbreak of bubonic plague. As the guerrilla war ground on, the Parliamentarians, as of April 1651, designated areas such as County Wicklow and much of the south of the country as what would now be called free-fire zones, where anyone found would be, \"taken slain and destroyed as enemies and their cattle and good shall be taken or spoiled as the goods of enemies\". This tactic had succeeded in the Nine Years' War.\n\nThis phase of the war was by far the most costly in terms of civilian loss of life. The combination of warfare, famine and plague caused a huge mortality among the Irish population. William Petty estimated (in the 1655-56 Down Survey) that the death toll of the wars in Ireland since 1641 was over 618,000 people, or about 40% of the country's pre-war population. Of these, he estimated that over 400,000 were Catholics, 167,000 killed directly by war or famine, and the remainder by war-related disease. Modern estimates put the toll at closer to 20%.\n\nIn addition, some fifty thousand Irish people, including prisoners of war, were sold as indentured labourers under the English Commonwealth regime. They were often sent to the English colonies in North America and the Caribbean where they subsequently comprised a substantial portion of certain Caribbean colony populations in the late 17th century. In Barbados, some of their descendants are known as Redlegs.\n\nEventually, the guerrilla war was ended when the Parliamentarians published surrender terms in 1652 allowing Irish troops to go abroad to serve in foreign armies not at war with the Commonwealth of England. Most went to France or Spain. The largest Irish guerrilla forces under John Fitzpatrick (in Leinster), Edmund O'Dwyer (in Munster) and Edmund Daly (in Connacht) surrendered in 1652, under terms signed at Kilkenny in May of that year. However, up to 11,000 men, mostly in Ulster, were still thought to be in the field at the end of the year. The last Irish and Royalist forces (the remnants of the Confederate's Ulster Army, led by Philip O'Reilly) formally surrendered at Cloughoughter in County Cavan on 27 April 1653. However, low-level guerrilla warfare continued for the remainder of the decade and was accompanied by widespread lawlessness. Undoubtedly some of the tories were simple brigands, whereas others were politically motivated. The Cromwellians distinguished in their rewards for information or capture of outlaws between \"private tories\" and \"public tories\".\n\nCromwell imposed an extremely harsh settlement on the Irish Catholic population. This was because of his deep religious antipathy to the Catholic religion and to punish Irish Catholics for the rebellion of 1641, in particular the massacres of Protestant settlers in Ulster. Also he needed to raise money to pay off his army and to repay the London merchants who had subsidised the war under the Adventurers Act back in 1640.\n\nAnyone implicated in the rebellion of 1641 was executed. Those who participated in Confederate Ireland had all their land confiscated and thousands were transported to the West Indies as indentured labourers. Those Catholic landowners who had not taken part in the wars still had their land confiscated, although they were entitled to claim land in Connacht as compensation. In addition, no Catholics were allowed to live in towns. Irish soldiers who had fought in the Confederate and Royalist armies left the country in large numbers to find service in the armies of France and Spain—William Petty estimated their number at 54,000 men. The practice of Catholicism was banned and bounties were offered for the capture of priests, who were executed when found.\n\nThe Long Parliament had passed the Adventurers Act in 1640 (the act received royal assent in 1642), under which those who lent money to Parliament for the subjugation of Ireland would be paid in confiscated land in Ireland. In addition, Parliamentarian soldiers who served in Ireland were entitled to an allotment of confiscated land there, in lieu of their wages, which the Parliament was unable to pay in full. As a result, many thousands of New Model Army veterans were settled in Ireland. Moreover, the pre-war Protestant settlers greatly increased their ownership of land (see also: The Cromwellian Plantation). Before the wars, Irish Catholics had owned 60% of the land in Ireland, whereas by the time of the English Restoration, when compensations had been made to Catholic Royalists, they owned only 20% of it. During the Commonwealth period, Catholic landownership had fallen to 8%. Even after the Restoration of 1660, Catholics were barred from all public office, but not from the Irish Parliament.\n\nThe Parliamentarian campaign in Ireland was the most ruthless of the Civil War period. In particular, Cromwell's actions at Drogheda and Wexford earned him a reputation for cruelty.\n\nHowever, pro-Cromwell accounts argue that Cromwell's actions in Ireland were not excessively cruel by the standards of the day. Cromwell himself argued that his severity when he was in Ireland applied only to \"men in arms\" who opposed him. Accounts of his massacres of civilians are still disputed.\n\nFormally, Cromwell's command issued in Dublin shortly after his arrival states the following:\n\nThe purpose of this order was, at least in part, to ensure that the local population would sell food and other supplies to his troops. It is worth noting that the Parliamentarian Colonel Daniel Axtell was court-martialled by Ireton in 1650 as a result of atrocities committed by his soldiers during the Battle of Meelick Island.\n\nCromwell's critics point to his response to a plea by Catholic Bishops to the Irish Catholic people to resist him in which he states that although his intention was not to \"massacre, banish and destroy the Catholic inhabitants\", if they did resist \"I hope to be free from the misery and desolation, blood and ruin that shall befall them, and shall rejoice to exercise the utmost severity against them\".\n\nIt has also recently been argued, by Tom Reilly in \"Cromwell, an Honourable Enemy\", that what happened at Drogheda and Wexford was not unusually severe by the standards of 17th century siege warfare, in which the garrisons of towns taken by storm were routinely killed to discourage resistance in the future. John Morrill commented, \"A major attempt at rehabilitation was attempted by Tom Reilly, Cromwell: An Honourable Enemy (London, 1999) but this has been largely rejected by other scholars.\" Morrill himself argued, that what happened at Drogheda, \"was without straightforward parallel in 17th century British or Irish history... So the Drogheda massacre does stand out for its mercilessness, for its combination of ruthlessness and calculation, for its combination of hot- and cold-bloodiness\". Moreover, historians critical of Cromwell point out that at the time the killings at Drogheda and Wexford were considered atrocities. They cite such sources as Edmund Ludlow, the Parliamentarian commander in Ireland after Ireton's death, who wrote that the tactics used by Cromwell at Drogheda showed \"extraordinary severity\".\n\nCromwell's actions in Ireland occurred in the context of a mutually cruel war. In 1641–42 Irish insurgents in Ulster killed between 4,000 and 12,000 Protestant settlers who had settled on land where the former Catholic owners had been evicted to make way for them. These events were magnified in Protestant propaganda as an attempt by Irish Catholics to exterminate the English Protestant settlers in Ireland. In turn, this was used as justification by English Parliamentary and Scottish Covenant forces to take vengeance on the Irish Catholic population. A Parliamentary tract of 1655 argued that, \"the whole Irish nation, consisting of gentry, clergy and commonality are engaged as one nation in this quarrel, to root out and extirpate all English Protestants from amongst them\".\n\nAtrocities were subsequently committed by all sides. When Murrough O'Brien, the Earl of Inchiquin and Parliamentarian commander in Cork, took Cashel in 1647, he slaughtered the garrison and Catholic clergy there (including Theobald Stapleton), earning the nickname \"Murrough of the Burnings\". Inchiquin switched allegiances in 1648, becoming a commander of the Royalist forces. After such battles as Dungans Hill and Scarrifholis, English Parliamentarian forces executed thousands of their Irish Catholic prisoners. Similarly, when the Confederate Catholic general Thomas Preston took Maynooth in 1647, he hanged its Catholic defenders as apostates.\n\nSeen in this light, some have argued that the severe conduct of the Parliamentarian campaign of 1649–53 appears unexceptional.\n\nNevertheless, the 1649–53 campaign remains notorious in Irish popular memory as it was responsible for a huge death toll among the Irish population. The main reason for this was the counter-guerrilla tactics used by such commanders as Henry Ireton, John Hewson and Edmund Ludlow against the Catholic population from 1650, when large areas of the country still resisted the Parliamentary Army. These tactics included the wholesale burning of crops, forced population movement, and killing of civilians. \n\nTotal excess deaths for the entire period of the Wars of the Three Kingdoms in Ireland was estimated by Sir William Petty, the 17th Century economist, to be 600,000 out of a total Irish population of 1,400,000 in 1641. More modern estimates put the figure closer to 200,000 out of a population of 2 million.\n\nIn addition, the whole post-war Cromwellian settlement of Ireland has been characterised by historians such as Mark Levene and Alan Axelrod as ethnic cleansing, in that it sought to remove Irish Catholics from the eastern part of the country, others such as the historical writer Tim Pat Coogan have described the actions of Cromwell and his subordinates as genocide. The aftermath of the Cromwellian campaign and settlement saw extensive dispossession of landowners who were Catholic, and a huge drop in population. In the event, the much larger number of surviving poorer Catholics were not moved westwards; most of them had to fend for themselves by working for the new landowners.\n\nThe Cromwellian conquest completed the British colonisation of Ireland, which was merged into the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland in 1653–59. It destroyed the native Irish Catholic land-owning classes and replaced them with colonists with a British identity. The bitterness caused by the Cromwellian settlement was a powerful source of Irish nationalism from the 17th century onwards.\n\nAfter the Stuart Restoration in 1660, Charles II of England restored about a third of the confiscated land to the former landlords in the Act of Settlement 1662, but not all, as he needed political support from former parliamentarians in England. A generation later, during the Glorious Revolution, many of the Irish Catholic landed class tried to reverse the remaining Cromwellian settlement in the Williamite War in Ireland (1689–91), where they fought en masse for the Jacobites. They were defeated once again, and many lost land that had been regranted after 1662. As a result, Irish and English Catholics did not become full political citizens of the British state again until 1829 and were legally barred from buying valuable interests in land until the Papists Act 1778.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4009624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4009624", "title": "Denver Underground Film Festival", "text": "Denver Underground Film Festival\n\nThe Denver Underground Film Festival premiered in 1997 at The Bug Theater in Denver, Colorado.\nSince then, the visions of hundreds of independent filmmakers from around the world have been showcased, including films by classic Experimental and Avant-Garde filmmakers like Stan Brakhage, Luis Buñuel, Fassbinder and Man Ray.\n"}
{"id": "1227042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227042", "title": "Failure cause", "text": "Failure cause\n\nFailure causes are defects in design, process, quality, or part application, which are the underlying cause of a failure or which initiate a process which leads to failure. Where failure depends on the user of the product or process, then human error must be considered.\n\nA part failure mode is the way in which a component fails \"functionally\" on the component level. Often a part has only a few failure modes. Thus a relay may fail to open or close contacts on demand. The failure mechanism that caused this can be of many different kinds, and often multiple factors play a role at the same time. They include corrosion, welding of contacts due to an abnormal electric current, return spring fatigue failure, unintended command failure, dust accumulation and blockage of mechanism, etc. Seldom only one cause (hazard) can be identified that creates system failures. The real root causes can in theory in most cases be traced back to some kind of human error, e.g. design failure, operational errors, management failures, maintenance induced failures, specification failures, etc.\n\nA scenario is the complete identified possible sequence and combination of events, failures (failure modes), conditions, system states, leading to an end (failure) system state. It starts from causes (if known) leading to one particular end effect (the system failure condition). A failure scenario is for a system the same as the failure mechanism is for a component. Both result in a failure mode (state) of the system / component.\n\nRather than the simple description of symptoms that many product users or process participants might use, the term failure scenario / mechanism refers to a rather complete description, including the preconditions under which failure occurs, how the thing was being used, proximate and ultimate/final causes (if known), and any subsidiary or resulting failures that result.\n\nThe term is part of the engineering lexicon, especially of engineers working to test and debug products or processes. Carefully observing and describing failure conditions, identifying whether failures are reproducible or transient, and hypothesizing what combination of conditions and sequence of events led to failure is part of the process of fixing design flaws or improving future iterations. The term may be applied to mechanical systems failure.\n\nSome types of mechanical failure mechanisms are: excessive deflection, buckling, ductile fracture, brittle fracture, impact, creep, relaxation, thermal shock, wear, corrosion, stress corrosion cracking, and various types of fatigue. Each produces a different type of fracture surface, and other indicators near the fracture surface(s). The way the product is loaded, and the loading history are also important factors which determine the outcome. Of critical importance is design geometry because stress concentrations can magnify the applied load locally to very high levels, and from which cracks usually grow.\n\nOver time, as more is understood about a failure, the failure cause evolves from a description of symptoms and outcomes (that is, effects) to a systematic and relatively abstract model of how, when, and why the failure comes about (that is, causes).\n\nThe more complex the product or situation, the more necessary a good understanding of its failure cause is to ensuring its proper operation (or repair). Cascading failures, for example, are particularly complex failure causes. Edge cases and corner cases are situations in which complex, unexpected, and difficult-to-debug problems often occur.\n\nMaterials can be degraded by their environment by corrosion processes, such as rusting in the case of iron and steel. Such processes can also be affected by load in the mechanisms of stress corrosion cracking and environmental stress cracking.\n\n"}
{"id": "11322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11322", "title": "February 2", "text": "February 2\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1841835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841835", "title": "Freewill Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Freewill Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Freewill Shakespeare Festival, formerly known as the River City Shakespeare Festival was founded in 1989. It is produced by the Edmonton, Alberta-based \"Free Will Players\" every summer from late-June to mid-July, with performances in the 1,000-seat Heritage Amphitheater in Hawrelak Park in Edmonton. The Festival includes full-scale professional productions of two plays by William Shakespeare, as well as Camp Shakespeare, a summer drama camp for youth ages 8–16. In 2008, the festival was renamed the Freewill Shakespeare Festival.\n\nDue to significant damage to Freewill's traditional venue at the Heritage Amphitheatre in Hawrelak Park, the festival's 2014 season took place inside the Myer Horowitz Theatre in the University of Alberta's Student's Union Building (8900 114 St.).\n\n"}
{"id": "62414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62414", "title": "Global Crossing", "text": "Global Crossing\n\nGlobal Crossing was a telecommunications company that provided computer networking services and operated a tier 1 carrier. It maintained a large backbone network and offered peering, virtual private networks, leased lines, audio and video conferencing, long distance telephone, managed services, dialup, colocation centres and VoIP. Its customer base ranged from individuals to large enterprises and other carriers, with emphasis on higher-margin layered services such as managed services and VoIP with leased lines. Its core network delivered services to more than 700 cities in more than 70 countries. \n\nGlobal Crossing was the first global communications provider with IPv6 natively deployed in both its private and public backbone networks. \n\nIt was legally domiciled in Bermuda, although its administrative headquarters was in New Jersey. \n\nIn 1999, during the dot-com bubble, the company was valued at $47 billion. However, the company never had a profitable year.\n\nIn 2002, the company filed for one of the largest bankruptcies in history and its executive were accused of covering up an accounting scandal.\n\nOn October 3, 2011, the company was acquired by Level 3 Communications for $3 billion, including the assumption of $1.1 billion in debt. \n\nIn March 1997, Global Crossing was founded by Gary Winnick, the former manager of the bond desk of Drexel Burnham Lambert, and his Drexel colleagues who moved on to work at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC): Abbott L. Brown, David L. Lee, and Barry Porter. In 1997, the company raised $35 million, including investments by Winnick and the CIBC Argosy Merchant Funds (later Trimaran Capital Partners). \n\nCIBC later realized an estimated gain of $2 billion from its relatively small equity investment in the company, making it one of the most profitable investments by a financial institution in the 1990s. Winnick salvaged $735 million from his $20 million investment, although his interest was worth $6 billion on paper at its peak.\n\nWinnick was chairman of the company from 1997 until 2002. In 1998, he hired Lodwrick Cook, former CEO of Atlantic Richfield Company, as co-chairman. John Scanlon became the first CEO of the company in the same year, but was replaced in March 1999 by Robert Annunziata, who had resigned as president of AT&T Corporation's Business Services group to \"build a company from start to finish\".\n\nIn May 1999, the company made an offer to acquire US West. However, the company was outbid by Qwest. \n\nIn July 1999, the company acquired Global Marine Systems, the undersea cable maintenance business of Cable & Wireless, for $885 million. \n\nBetween 1999 and 2001, the company sponsored the Go Bowling at The Glen NASCAR race. \n\nIn September 1999, the company acquired Frontier Communications, the former Rochester Telephone Corporation, for $9.9 billion. It was renamed Global Crossing North America. \n\nThe company also acquired 49% of SB Submarine Systems.\n\nIn September 1999, the company formed Asia Global Crossing, a $1.3 billion joint venture with Softbank and Microsoft to build a fiber-optic network in Asia linking Japan, China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines.\n\nIn November 1999, the company acquired telecoms business of Racal for $1.65 billion. \n\nIn January 2000, the company formed a 50/50 joint venture with Hutchinson Whampoa, valued at $1.2 billion, for a fiber-optic network in Hong Kong. \n\nIn March 2000, Annunziata resigned, receiving $160 million during his 13 month tenure. Leo Hindery, who had joined the company a few months earlier as head of its web hosting division, GlobalCenter, then became CEO.\n\nIn August 2000, the company attempted to rescue a Russian submarine during the Kursk submarine disaster.\n\nIn September 2000, the company announced a deal to sell GlobalCenter to Exodus Communications for $6.5 billion in stock. By the time the deal closed in January 2001, the stock was only worth $1.95 billion. Hindery then resigned as CEO and was replaced with Thomas Casey, a lawyer who came to Global Crossing from Merrill Lynch, where he was co-head of the global telecom investment banking group.\n\nFor the year 2000, the company lost $1.4 billion.\n\nIn 2001, the company sold its local telephone operations and the Frontier name in 2001 to Citizens Communications for $3.65 billion in cash.\n\nIn the summer of 2001, the company began discussing a transaction with Enron in which the company would pay Enron $650 million for its fiber-optic network in exchange for Enron paying the company $650 million to use the network, a move that would boost both companies' revenues without costing them anything. The transaction did not materialize.\n\nIn the fourth quarter of 2001, the company lost $3.4 billion on revenue of $793 million. In January 2002, the company filed bankruptcy. It listed total assets of $22.4 billion and debts of $12.4 billion and was paying annual interest of $600 million. As part of the bankruptcy, Hutchison Whampoa and ST Telemedia agreed to invest $750 million in the company. Hutchinson Whampoa later pulled out of the deal due to regulatory resistance.\n\nIn April 2002, Hutchinson Whampoa bought the company's 50% interest in the Hong Kong joint venture for $120 million. \n\nIn November 2002, Global Crossing's Asian subsidiary, Asia Global Crossing, filed bankruptcy and sold its assets to Asia Netcom, a subsidiary of China Netcom.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2001, Winnick sold approximately $420 million in company stock and other executives sold an additional $900 million in company stock.\n\nOn December 9, 2003, the company emerged from bankruptcy and on April 1, 2004, the company once again became a public company. \n\nIn March 2004, Gary Winnick and other ex-executives settled lawsuits filed by investors and former employees accusing the executives of committing securities fraud by using improper accounting to inflate the company's revenue.\n\nIn October 2006, the company announced the acquisition of UK-based Fibernet Corp. for £49.8 million.\n\nIn May 2007, the company acquired Impsat, a leading Argentine telecommunications company. Global Crossing and Impsat have had a commercial relationship since 2000, when Global Crossing selected Impsat as one of its providers of Point of Presence (PoP) facilities for Global Crossing's Latin American network, known as South American Crossing. Impsat has also been a customer of Global Crossing in Latin America since 2000. \n\nIn October 2011, Level 3 Communications acquired the company for $3 billion, including the assumption of $1.1 billion in debt.\n\nThe company contributed $250,000 to each of the 2000 Republican National Convention and the 2000 Democratic National Convention and made major contributions to politicians of both parties. The company also courted politicians to invest in the company. The company hired lobbyist and former United States Assistant Attorney General Anne Bingaman, married to Democratic New Mexico Senator Jeff Bingaman, paying her $2.5 million between January and June 1999 to try to block licensing of an AT&T, MCI, and Sprint consortium to lay cable from the U.S. to Japan.\n\nDespite the massive layoffs, unpaid employees, and cancelled pensions as a result of the bankruptcy, executives received huge bonuses and loan relief. \n"}
{"id": "7023062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7023062", "title": "Golu", "text": "Golu\n\nGolu is the festive display of dolls and figurines in South India during the autumn festive season, particularly around the multiday Navaratri (Dussehra, Dasara) festival of Hinduism. These displays are typically thematic, narrating a legend from a Hindu text or a secular cultural issue. They are also known as Kolu, Gombe Habba, Bommai Kolu or Bommala Koluvu.\n\nEach displayed item in a golu display is sometimes called \"golu doll\" or equivalent. These are typically made by rural artisans from clay and local materials then brightly painted. They are generally arranged in an odd number of \"padis\" (tiers) to tell a story. Goddess-related themes are common, along with developments such as anticipated wedding within the family and of friends. During the golu display season, families visit each other with gifts to view and chit-chat over the golu display, share festive foods, and sometimes play music or sing devotional songs together. Major Hindu temples such as the Meenakshi temple arrange elaborate golu displays each year for Navaratri. Golu displays are particularly popular in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, and among their diaspora communities.\n\nBommai Kolu in Tamil means \"Divine Presence\". Bommala Koluvu in Telugu means \"Court of Toys\" and Bombe Habba means \"Doll Festival\" in Kannada. It is a part of the annual Dasara-Vijayadasami Hindu festival where young girls and women display dolls, figurine, court life, everyday scenes along with the divine presence of the Goddesses Saraswati, Parvati and Laxmi in the Tamil, Kannada and Telugu households during Navaratri or The Nine nights.\n\nOn the first day of Navaratri, following Ganapathi pooja, a welcoming ritual is performed for goddesses Saraswati, Parvati and Lakshmi by Hindu ritual called Kalasa Ahvanam which is performed by an elderly male or female of the family. This is then followed by building a rack of odd-numbered shelves of \"Kolu\" (or \"Padi\") (usually 3, 5, 7, 9, or 11), set up using wooden planks. After the Kolu has been covered with fabric it is then adorned with various dolls, figurines and toys according to their size, with the deities at the top.\n\nThe Kolu is predominantly displayed with depictions from Hindu mythological Puranas text, court life, royal procession, ratha yatra, weddings, everyday scenes, miniature kitchen utensils, anything a little girl would have played with. It is a traditional practice to have wooden figurines of the bride and groom together, called 'Marapacchi Bommai' or 'Pattada Gombe', usually made of sandalwood, teak or rosewood and decorated with new clothes each year before being displayed on the Kolu. In southern India, bride is presented with 'Marapacchi Bommai' during the wedding by her parents as part of wedding trousseau to initiate the yearly tradition of 'Navaratri Golu' in her new home with her husband. These dolls come as couples dressed in their wedding attire, depicting husband and wife symbolizing prosperity and fertility and the start of the bride's Gollu collection. Display figurines are passed on from one generation to another as heirloom. In old Mysore area 'Pattada Gombe' is also believed to be a tribute to the Wodeyars the benevolent and progressive monarchs who ruled of the region for around 600 years.\nIn the evenings, women within the neighborhood invite each other to visit their homes to view the Kolu displays; they also exchange gifts and sweets. A \"Kuthuvilakku\" lamp is lit, in the middle of a decorated Rangoli, while devotional hymns and shlokas are chanted. After performing the puja, the food items that have been prepared are offered to the Goddess and then to the guests.\n\nOn the 9th day Saraswati Puja, special pujas are offered to goddess Saraswati, the divine source of wisdom and enlightenment. Books and musical instruments are placed in the puja and worshipped as a source of knowledge.\n\nThe 10th day, Vijayadasami, is the most auspicious day of all. It was the day on which evil was finally destroyed by good. It marks a new and prosperous beginning. Later, on the evening of Vijayadasami, one of the doll from the display is symbolically put to sleep, and the Kalasa is moved a bit towards North to mark the end of that year's Navaratri golu. Prayers are offered to thank the Lord for the successful completion of that year's Kolu and with hope of a successful one the next year. Then the Kolu is dismantled and packed up for the next year.\n\nKolu also has a significant connection with the agricultural and handicrafts professions in India. Besides the economic aspect of the festival, it is an important occasion for socializing. During this season relatives and friends in south India make it a point to visit each other's homes. This is also a very important occasion that promotes creative expression for women and for the family to work together on an aesthetic aspect.\n\n"}
{"id": "3018189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3018189", "title": "Grand Prix Masters", "text": "Grand Prix Masters\n\nGrand Prix Masters was a one-make motor racing series featuring retired Formula One drivers. The inaugural (and sole 2005) event, at the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit in South Africa, took place on 11–13 November, but the series folded after a two-race season in 2006.\n\nGrand Prix Masters was modeled on the lucrative seniors tours of golf and tennis. In order to compete, drivers must:\n\n\nAll participants raced identical open wheel cars, which are based on the 2000 Reynard 2KI Champ Car. The chassis was built by English constructor Delta Motorsport, and was powered by a naturally aspirated, 3.5-litre, 80-degree V8 engine produced by Nicholson McLaren. The engine was based on the Cosworth XB engines previously used in IndyCar racing, and according to the series' organisers, it produced more than 650bhp at 10,400 rpm with over torque at 7,800 rpm.\n\nIn 2007 cars were to have been powered by a Mecachrome 90-degree V8 4.0 litre. It developed and revved to in excess of 9500 rpm.\n\nGearbox operation was fully manual, and controlled by a contemporary paddle shift arrangement.\n\nGrand Prix Masters promoters boasted that the 650 kg cars reach . Claiming that the combination of stable aerodynamics and considerably simpler technology (than in use in modern Formula One) better demonstrate driver skill and promoted overtaking, electronic \"drivers' aids\" (such as traction control, power steering and ABS) were absent, and brakes were made of steel rather than carbon (as in many contemporary single seater race cars) to increase braking distances.\n\nThe Grand Prix Masters car first ran in late-September 2005 in the hands of Delta Motorsport Operations Director Simon Dowson. He reported a successful shakedown, despite appearing to sit very high in the car, his helmet appearing to sit level with the top of the roll-over hoop.\n\nIn mid-October 2005, Nigel Mansell and René Arnoux tested the car at the Pembrey Circuit in South Wales. 26 October saw the first multi-car test for the series, with Mansell, Andrea de Cesaris, Stefan Johansson, Derek Warwick, Alex Caffi, Hans-Joachim Stuck, Patrick Tambay and Christian Danner running at the Silverstone Circuit in England. De Cesaris was fastest, Danner slowest whilst Tambay crashed.\n\nThere were questions surrounding the fitness of the former Formula One stars who ended up competing in the series. Participant Christian Danner questioned the ability of 1980 World Champion Alan Jones and former GP winner Patrick Tambay in particular, given the rapid expansion of these drivers' waistlines since retiring from racing. Jones hit back claiming the only time Danner had seen a Grand Prix podium was when he passed it on the way to the lavatory. Jones' lack of fitness at the first GP Masters event might suggest Danner's assessment had some merit.\n\nThe first event took place at Kyalami in South Africa on 13 November 2005. Nigel Mansell took pole then won after battling hard with Emerson Fittipaldi. Riccardo Patrese was third. Andrea de Cesaris finished fourth after a storming drive, where he pushed past Derek Warwick. Stefan Johansson spun out early on. Jacques Laffite retired with damaged right-front suspension after colliding with René Arnoux.\nAs predicted, Alan Jones proved a disappointment. In practice he was up to ten seconds off the pace of Mansell, before pulling out of the race –- ostensibly due to neck injury. He was replaced by Eliseo Salazar.\n\n\nIn January 2006 GP Masters announced it would hold events in the following venues:\n\nThe race scheduled for Monza was cancelled due to noise limits. The Kyalami event would later be cancelled as well.\n\n\n\nThree races would be held in 2007, all cancelled due to organiser bankruptcy (see below section):\n\nOn 18 September 2007, Delta Motorsport, supplier of the GP Masters chassis, announced they were filing a petition with the British High Court to have the GP Masters Operating company placed in liquidation due to non-payment of invoices. Following a hearing on 28 November 2007, the Grand Prix Masters series was officially wound up.\n\nGP Masters should not be confused with the Masters Series, owned by Ron Maiden, which runs various historic race series.\n\nIn the first quarter of 2008 Delta Motorsport stated that they intend to re-launch the series under the name F1 Masters using the original car that they manufactured for the GP Masters series.\n\n"}
{"id": "9890281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9890281", "title": "Great New Orleans Fire (1794)", "text": "Great New Orleans Fire (1794)\n\nThe Great New Orleans Fire (1794) was a fire that destroyed 212 structures in New Orleans, Louisiana on December 8, 1794, in the area now known as the French Quarter from Burgundy to Chartres Street, almost to the riverfront buildings.\nAnother 856 buildings had been destroyed 6 years earlier, in the First Great New Orleans Fire on March 21, 1788.\n\nThe fire started on December 8, 1794.\n\nThe fire area stretched across 212 buildings, including the royal jail. It spared the Mississippi River front buildings. Among the buildings spared were the Customs House, the tobacco warehouses, the Governor's Building, the Royal Hospital, and the Ursulines Convent. Despite widespread fire damage, the St. Louis Cathedral was not destroyed but was dedicated just 2 weeks later, on December 23, 1794.\n\nAfterward, the schooner \"Nuestra Señora del Cármen\" was used as a temporary jail during the period December 10, 1794 to February 26, 1795. The ship's owner, Don Prospero Ferrayolo, received rental payments for use of the ship, replacing the royal jail destroyed during the fire.\n\nThe Spanish were to replace the wooden buildings with structures with courtyards, thick brick walls, arcades, and wrought iron balconies. Among the new buildings were the signature New Orleans buildings of St. Louis Cathedral (1794), the Cabildo (1799), and the Presbytere (1797), all designed by Gilberto Guillemard.\n\nIn 1795, Don Andrés Almonaster y Rojas had agreed to pay for construction of the building now known as the Cabildo. It replaced an earlier structure that had been destroyed by the fire. Almonester had already commissioned Gilberto Guillemard to design the new cathedral and Presbytere.\n\nJust 6 years earlier, on March 21, 1788, another 856 buildings had been destroyed in the Great New Orleans Fire (1788). Still a colony of Spain, rebuilding after both fires continued in Spanish style, and most French architecture was eliminated from the French Quarter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28299311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28299311", "title": "Halle Opera House", "text": "Halle Opera House\n\nThe Halle Opera House () is an opera house in Halle, Saxony-Anhalt. Originally named the Halle Town Theatre (), the theatre was built in 1886. A bomb attack on 31 March 1945 destroyed much of the original building. Restorative work ensued a few years later, and the theatre reopened in 1951 under the name Landestheater Halle. In January 1992 it was renamed to its current title. The theatre is currently used for performances of opera, ballet, plays, and orchestral concerts. It is also the main performance venue for the annual summer Handel Festival held in the city.\n"}
{"id": "34752318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34752318", "title": "Higüey Prison fire", "text": "Higüey Prison fire\n\nThe Higüey Prison fire occurred on March 7, 2005, at Higüey Prison in Higüey, Dominican Republic.\n\nThe prison was claimed to be overcrowded at the time of the fire, housing 400 inmates but designed to house only 180. In all, 136 prisoners died. Among those killed was Edwin Adams Cotto.\n\nThe fire's cause was variously attributed to an inmate riot, guards firing tear gas, or a prisoner setting fire to a mattress.\n"}
{"id": "41035000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41035000", "title": "Hit List (musical)", "text": "Hit List (musical)\n\nHit List is an American musical with music and lyrics by Marc Shaiman, Scott Wittman, Drew Gasparini, Joe Iconis, Andrew McMahon, Benj Pasek & Justin Paul, and Lucie Silvas and a book by Julia Brownell, based on the original fictitious musical from the second season of the NBC television series \"Smash\".\n\nWithin the television series \"Smash\" is created by characters Jimmy Collins (Jeremy Jordan) and Kyle Bishop (Andy Mientus). \"Hit List\" centers around three characters, Amanda, Jesse and \"The Diva\", as they seek to attain and hold onto fame. Amanda is portrayed by Karen Cartwright (Katharine McPhee), Jesse by Jimmy Collins and The Diva by Ana Vargas (Krysta Rodriguez).\n\nOn October 15, 2013, New York City venue 54 Below announced plans to stage \"Hit List\" in concert format. Jordan, Mientus and Rodriguez each appeared, with Carrie Manolakos standing in for McPhee. The musical's original concert production opened on December 8, 2013 and closed December 9, 2013 after 3 regular performances.\n\n\"Hit List\" was created for season two of \"Smash\", intended to be a rival production to \"Bombshell\", the Marilyn Monroe biographical musical created for season one. Drew Gasparini, Joe Iconis, Andrew McMahon, Benj Pasek and Justin Paul, Marc Shaiman and Scott Wittman and Lucie Silvas created the material for the fictional musical. \"Smash\" season two showrunner Joshua Safran envisioned \"Hit List\" as a \"scrappy underdog\" to the senior \"Bombshell\", taking inspiration from the 2005 documentary film \"\", and from Broadway seasons which saw \"Wicked\" head-to-head with \"Avenue Q\" and \"Billy Elliot\" in competition with \"next to normal\".\n\nSafran wanted the sound of the second musical to completely contrast with that of \"Bombshell\" so he turned to rising theater writers. The first two songs selected for \"Hit List\" were \"Broadway, Here I Come\" and \"The Goodbye Song\", both by Joe Iconis. \"So, in a very strange way, those songs actually created \"Hit List\"\", Safran stated. He described \"Hit List\" as being about \"really deal[ing] with the power of fame these days in the music industry or the arts. And the idea that in order to be somebody, you have to pretend to be somebody else.\"\n\nAfter creating a cult-like following from the television show, \"Hit List\" opened for a three show engagement at 54 Below on December 8, 2013 through December 9, 2013. The production was musically directed by Benjamin Rauhala, orchestrated by Charlie Rosen, and presented by Julia Brownell, Joshua Safran, and Jennifer Ashley Tepper. The original concert cast included Jeremy Jordan and Carrie Manolakos in the lead roles of Jesse and Amanda. The cast also featured Krysta Rodriguez as The Diva, Andy Mientus as Nick, and Eric William Morris as JB.\n\nSetting: New York City, New Jersey, and Los Angeles, Modern Day\n\nThe Diva attends Nina Hope's concert she walks toward the stage raises a gun and pulls the trigger (\"Broadway, Here I Come (Pre-Reprise)\").\n\nAs \"poor little rich girl\" Amanda Brown performs for a record producer, she hopes that this is finally her time to make it as a pop star (\"Good For You\"). Jesse returns home to his dirty Brooklyn apartment where he is greeted by his roommate Nick. After a brief discussion with his roommate, Jesse goes to bed, but not before a quick smoke (\"Rewrite This Story\"). Following a confrontation with her family, who threaten to cut her off financially if she pursues her pop star dreams, Amanda depressed and lonely heads to a deserted Brooklyn pier, where she contemplates suicide (\"Broadway, Here I Come!\"). Jesse seeing that Amanda is about to kill herself, intervenes by singing to her (\"Anymore\"). Infatuated with Amanda, Jesse delightedly tells his roommate about his love for her (\"If I Had You\"). Growing closer together Jesse and Amanda discuss Hollywood's biggest pop-star to date, The Diva (\"Reach For Me\"). Jesse confused as to why Amanda would want to be a fake sell out like The Diva, sits while she explains what it takes to be original (\"Original\"). After making love, Amanda sneaks out of bed, steals all of Jesse's sheet music and disappears into the night. Days later Nick sits in the apartment writing when Jesse enters, they discuss Amanda's disappearance. Jesse the only one convinced Amanda didn't kill herself doubts that she will return. Two months later Jesse and Nick are closing up the bar in which they work at when Jesse takes interest in the radio. A familiar song echoes through the speakers as Jesse realizes it's Amanda singing one of his songs (\"Anymore Reprise\"). The radio DJ announces that the song is the newest single by up and rising pop-star Nina Hope. Jesse convinced he has to find Nina makes his way to Los Angeles (\"I Heard Your Voice In A Dream\"). Outside a small club Jesse comes face to face with Amanda transformed into Nina Hope. Jesse goes to Nina's hotel room, where he is coaxed into writing more music to help Nina's career. As Nina career ascends, Jesse falls back into drug abuse. Nina takes over the party of talent manager JB Planko and forces an audition onto him, he agrees to represent her (\"Pretender\"). Jesse looms over Nina, JB informs him that it doesn't matter if Nina lies about writing her own music regardless records will sell, after all it is a business (\"Guide To Success\"). Jesse sits in Nina's hotel room hidden away from the world writing music (\"Don't Let Me Know (Pre-Reprise)\"). Nina checks in on his writing and begins practicing \"her\" newest hit to perform for JB (\"Don't Let Me Know\"). JB loving Nina wants to market her to the world, what better way then a duet performance on the international television broadcast of the VMAs between Nina and his currently biggest star The Diva (\"I'm Not Sorry\"). As Nina's career soars The Diva has a public breakdown. Nina goes on a publicity tour, advertising her new cd \"Hopeful\". Jesse appalled that Nina would throw The Diva under the bus on Conan, pleads for her to join him on a trip back to New York. Nina tells JB of her plans to return home for a brief trip when he kisses her, they make love. Jesse waits for Nina, who is not coming, depressed leaves without her (\"Caught In The Storm\").\n\nNick is on the phone trying to get a hold of Jesse, The Diva is hopelessly trying to find herself and blames Nina for her problems, Jesse is on his way home to New York (\"Calling Out My Name\"). Jesse and The Diva stand in front of two different doors, Jesse knocks first, Nick answers. Nick takes Jesse inside and gives him some advice (\"Swim\"). The Diva knocks on the door hoping to find her parents, she resumes her original identity, \"Sara Smith\". No one believes she was once The Diva and she spirals deeper into despair (\"Haddonfield (15 Years Later)\").Without Jesse to write for her, Nina attempts an original song at her concert (\"Good For You (Reprise)\"). Nina headed in a downward spiral breaks things off with JB, she returns to Jesse, now clean and sober, and expresses her desire to return to being the Amanda she used to be, with him at her side (\"Heart-Shaped Wreckage\").\n\nAmanda, her work now polished by her experience as Nina, auditions again for the same record company executives who, along with the rest of the world, have no idea she used to be Nina (who has vanished without trace). She performs her first concert as herself and it is a moderate success. As she launches into her final song, Sara Smith arrives and shoots her (\"Broadway, Here I Come! (Reprise)\"). Sara Smith jumps on stage trying to promote her new song. Jesse holds Amanda in his arms, he tries to help her but it too late, Jesse sings his goodbyes to Amanda as she dies on stage (\"The Love I Meant To Say\"). The internet goes crazy over the news of The Diva's arrest, her mediocre single rises to the top, becoming bigger than she ever was. Jesse depressed, at the pier writes in his notebook (\"Rewrite This Story (Reprise)\"). The musical closes with Jesse once again bidding Amanda goodbye while The Diva is returned to her former glory despite the possibility that the next \"Amanda\" is out there ready to challenge her supremacy (\"The Goodbye Song\").\n\nPrincipal roles and casts of major productions of stage productions of \"Hit List\"\n\n\nKaren Cartwright overhears Jimmy Collins performing \"Broadway Here I Come\" and calls director Derek Wills (Jack Davenport) to listen. She offers to introduce Jimmy and his writing partner, Kyle Bishop, to Derek. Jimmy initially refuses but at Kyle's urging he relents. The pair pitches the musical, about a poor boy with songwriting talent who falls for a rich girl who steals his songs. Derek agrees to help shape the musical, to be called \"Hit List\".\n\nAt Derek's suggestion, Jimmy and Kyle put together a workshop production of \"Hit List\" for the New York Fringe Festival. They do a read-through for friends, which is a disaster because of Kyle's weak book. They press on with the Fringe presentation but Karen's commitment to \"Bombshell\" prevents her from appearing. The first staging is poorly received but Karen clandestinely appears in the second staging, which is applauded. With the success Derek sees the potential and attaches himself to the show as director.\n\nFollowing a successful audition, Manhattan Theatre Workshop director Scott Nichols (Jesse L. Martin) offers to stage \"Hit List\" on his venue's \"underground\" stage. Karen withdraws from the role of Marilyn Monroe in \"Bombshell\" and joins the cast of \"Hit List\" as Amanda/Nina. After an impromptu audition in a bar, Ana secures the role of The Diva. With the book still in trouble, Scott and Derek enlist Julia Houston (Debra Messing) to serve as dramaturg for \"Hit List\".\n\n\"Hit List\" opens on the main stage at the Manhattan Theatre Project to excellent reviews. Broadway producer Jerry Rand (Michael Cristofer) commits to transferring it to the Ethel Barrymore Theatre on Broadway. Jimmy's volatile attitude gets him fired from the production.\n\nThe night before \"Hit List\" is slated to open Off-Broadway, Kyle is struck by a car and killed. Grief-stricken, the company decides to open anyway, performing a concert version of the show as a tribute. Moments after the show begins, Jimmy arrives and re-assumes the role of Jesse, performing \"The Love I Meant to Say\". The company then launches into the fully staged show.\n\nWith \"Hit List\" running on Broadway, a member of the company named Daisy Parker (Mara Davi) blackmails Derek with threats of a sexual harassment lawsuit unless he gives her the role of The Diva. To avoid scandal, Derek capitulates, leading Ana to threaten legal action.\n\n\"Hit List\" is nominated for 13 Tony Awards, facing off against rival show \"Bombshell\" (nominated in 12 categories). \"Hit List\" wins seven awards, including a posthumous Best Book Tony for Kyle, but loses Best Musical to \"Bombshell\". Karen loses Best Actress to Ivy Lynn (Megan Hilty) in the role of Marilyn.\n\nCritics noted the similarities between \"Hit List\" and Kyle Bishop and the musical \"Rent\" and its creator, Jonathan Larson. Like \"Hit List\", \"Rent\" premiered in a workshop setting and transferred (although \"Rent\" went first to an Off-Broadway venue before going to Broadway). The morning before the show's Off-Broadway premiere, Larson died suddenly but the cast opened the show as scheduled. Like Kyle Bishop, Larson posthumously won the Tony Award for Best Book for a Musical (also Best Score). These parallels were intentional.\n\nTwo recurring cast members of \"Smash\", Jesse L. Martin and Daphne Rubin-Vega, were also in the original cast of \"Rent\". Joshua Safran, who was associated with \"Rent\" through his ex-boyfriend Anthony Rapp, consulted with both actors to be sure they felt that the story was appropriate and not exploitative. \"If Daphne or Jesse had said, 'We feel like this story is in poor taste,' or, 'We don’t think you should do this story,' we’d [have pulled] the plug on it ... Also, because I know them from back in the day — I lived with them ... I think they also felt like I had a connection to that history, and what I was doing was writing my life, in a way.\"\n\nAndy Mientus has performed in \"Rent\" and was also aware of the parallels between his character and Larson. He was nervous about playing the parallels because of his connection to the show but hoped that it mirrored Larson's \"enthusiasm and his light and positivity in a way that [made] that parallel something that’s a tribute and not exploitative. It’s about this kid who loves this art form more than anything, and has worked so hard and struggled so much to get the show to where it is, and then can’t be there to see it through. Hopefully that’s the story that we’re telling.\"\n\nSafran initially expressed interest in staging a real-world version of \"Hit List\" during the second season. \"We all talk about doing a \"Hit List\" concert at Joe's Pub, which everyone wants to do ... and if I did, I would use some of the songs we never used.\" Following a performance of the song \"Broadway, Here I Come\" on \"Smash\", 54 Below artistic director Jennifer Ashley Tepper contacted Safran via the social networking site Twitter. Tepper had previously collaborated with Joe Iconis, who wrote \"Broadway, Here I Come\".\n\nOn October 15, 2013, it was announced that \"Hit List\" would be staged in concert format at 54 Below for two performances on December 9. \nTickets for both shows sold out in under an hour. Because of the high demand, an additional performance was scheduled for December 8. The concerts, under the musical direction of Benjamin Rauhala, was presented by Safran and Tepper, with a book written by screenwriter Julia Brownell. \"Smash\" stars Jeremy Jordan, Andy Mientus and Krysta Rodriguez performed as \"Jesse\", \"Nick\" and \"The Diva\" respectively. Katharine McPhee, whose character Karen Cartwright starred in the fictional \"Hit List\", was unavailable; her role of \"Amanda\" was performed by Carrie Manolakos, who had recorded several demo versions of songs performed on \"Smash\". Completing the cast are Molly Hager, Eric Michael Krop, Julia Mattison, Monet Julia Sabel, and Eric William Morris.\n\nSongs that Safran had intended to use on \"Smash\" but did not were incorporated into the show, including \"Anymore\", \"The Guide to Success\" and \"Haddonfield, 15 Years Later\" by Iconis, \"Calling Out My Name\" by Lucie Silvas, \"If I Had You\" by Gasparini and \"Swim\" by McMahon. \"Hit List\" features 19 songs in total. Both Jordan and Rodriguez noted that the \"Hit List\" material when it appeared in \"Smash\" was more geared to advancing the \"Smash\" stories and characters rather than those of \"Hit List\". With the live staging some songs were performed by different characters from those who performed them for the series.\n\n\"Times Square Chronicles\" described \"Hit List\" as \"a show for anyone whose dreams are on the edge\". Calling the show's sound \"great\" and its cast \"energetic and vocal\", the site declared that \"Hit List\" should come to Broadway or at least Off-Broadway but that the book should have explored a theme that its fictional writers proposed when pitching the show in \"Smash\", that the songs be an actual \"hit list\" for people who had wronged the character Jesse.\n\nJeff Lunden for NPR concurred in part and dissented to an extent. Calling the concert \"energetic\", the cast \"superb\" and the music \"genuinely impressive\", he nonetheless expressed some doubt whether the show itself could be a hit. He would, however, buy a cast recording.\n\nThe \"New York Post\" declared \"Hit List\" to be \"exhilarating\" and the \"hottest new musical in town\". Citing the \"workable book\" as a \"happy surprise\", the \"Post\" praised the \"energized\" cast, singling out Jordan for special commendation, calling him \"relaxed, charming and funny\". \"Hit List\", the \"Post\" concluded, may prove to be \"Smash\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s legacy.\n\nNo plans to continue \"Hit List\" have been announced. The property is under the control of NBC.\n"}
{"id": "4065930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4065930", "title": "L'Africaine", "text": "L'Africaine\n\nL'Africaine (\"The African Woman\") is a grand opera in five acts, the last work of the composer Giacomo Meyerbeer. The French libretto by Eugène Scribe deals with fictitious events in the life of the Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama – Meyerbeer's working title for the opera was in fact \"Vasco de Gama\". The opera had its first performance by the Paris Opéra at the Salle Le Peletier on 28 April 1865.\n\nThe opera was premiered in a performing edition undertaken by François-Joseph Fétis, as the composer had not prepared a final version by the time of his death the previous year. It is Fétis who gave the work its present title; Meyerbeer had referred to it as \"Vasco de Gama\". In fact it is clear from the text, with its references to Hinduism, that the heroine Sélika hails not from Africa, but from a region of, or island nearby, India. Madagascar has been suggested as a compromise reconciliation. Gabriela Cruz has published a detailed analysis of the historical context of the events of the opera and the opera setting itself.\n\nMeyerbeer worked on the score from 1854 to 1855. He had intended the role of Sélika for the soprano Sophie Cruvelli, but Cruvelli's abrupt retirement from the public stage in January 1856 interrupted his plans.\n\nThe work had its British premiere at Covent Garden Theatre, London, on 22 July 1865, and in New York on 1 December 1865. It also received its Italian premiere in 1865 in Bologna, conducted by Angelo Mariani and was staged four times at La Fenice between 1868 and 1892. It was also performed in Melbourne, Australia, in July 1866.\n\nThe opera was enormously successful in the 19th century, but along with Meyerbeer's other operas,it fell into almost complete neglect in the 20th century, except for very occasional revivals. Plácido Domingo has sung it in at least two productions: a revival at the War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco that premiered on November 13, 1973, with Shirley Verrett; and in 1977 at the Liceu in Barcelona, with Montserrat Caballé. To mark the 150th anniversary of Meyerbeer's death, the work was performed again at La Fenice in November 2013. \nIn 2013, Meyerbeer's original version in a new critical edition by Jürgen Schläder was performed by Chemnitz Opera under the original title \"Vasco de Gama\". The production was a success with audiences and critics and won the poll of German critics award presented by \"Opernwelt\" magazine annually as \"Rediscovery of the year\" in 2013. This edition was also used for a production at the Deutsche Oper in October 2015, with Roberto Alagna as Vasco da Gama and Sophie Koch as Sélika. In the 21st century, Meyerbeer's major French grand operas are again appearing in new productions in European opera houses. A new production of \"L'Africaine/Vasco da Gama\" was staged at the Frankfurt Opera in 2018.\n\nA well known aria from the opera is the act 4 tenor aria \"Pays merveilleux ... O, paradis\", which has been recorded many times.\n\nThe opera depicts fictional events in the life of the explorer Vasco da Gama.\n\n\"The council chamber, Lisbon\"\n\nThe beautiful Inès is forced by her father, the Grand Admiral Don Diego, to marry Don Pédro instead of her true love, Vasco da Gama. Da Gama, who is thought to have died in the expedition of Bartolomeu Dias, appears at the Grand Council saying he has discovered a new land, and displaying Sélika and Nélusko as examples of a newly discovered race. His request for an expedition is refused, causing da Gama to attack the Grand Inquisitor, who anathematises him. Da Gama is then imprisoned.\n\n\"The prison\"\n\nSélika, who is in fact queen of the undiscovered land, saves da Gama, whom she loves, from being murdered by Nélusko, a member of her entourage. Inès agrees to marry Don Pédro if da Gama is freed; da Gama, not realising that Inès has made this bargain, and noticing her envy of Sélika, gives her Sélika and Nélusko as slaves. Don Pédro announces he is to mount an expedition to the new lands that were da Gama's discovery. Nélusko offers his services as pilot.\n\n\"On Don Pedro's ship\"\n\nNélusko is navigating the ship, but is secretly planning to destroy the Europeans. He sings a ballad of the legend of Adamastor, the destructive giant of the sea. Nélusko gives orders which will direct the ship into an oncoming storm. Da Gama has followed Don Pédro in another ship, and begs him to change course to avoid destruction. Don Pédro refuses, and orders him to be chained. The storm breaks out. Nélusko leads the local people to kill all the Europeans on the ships and only da Gama is spared.\n\n\"Sélika's island\"\n\nSélika is met with a grand celebration and swears to uphold the island's laws, which include the execution of all strangers. Da Gama is captured by priests, who intend to sacrifice him. He is amazed by the wonders of the island, and sings the most famous aria of the opera \"O Paradis!\" (O Paradise!). Sélika saves him by saying that he is her husband, forcing Nélusko to swear this is true. Da Gama resigns himself to this new life, but hearing the voice of Inès, who is being taken to her execution, he rushes to find her.\n\n\"The island\"\n\nThe reunion of da Gama and Inès is interrupted by Sélika, who feels betrayed. When she realises the strength of the lovers' affection, she allows them to return to Europe, telling Nélusko to escort them to da Gama's boat. She then commits suicide by inhaling the perfume of the poisonous blossoms of the manchineel tree. Nélusko follows her into death.\n\nThe stage designs for the original production at the Paris Opera were created by Auguste-Alfred Rubé and Philippe Chaperon for Act 1 (Council Scene) and Act 2 (Dungeon Scene); Charles-Antoine Cambon and Joseph Thierry for Act 3 (Sea Scene and Shipwreck) and Act 4 (Hindu Temple); Jean-Baptiste Lavastre for scene 1 of Act 5 (Queen's Garden, not shown); and Edouard Desplechin for scene 2 of Act 5 (The Manchineel Tree). Engravings depicting the amazing sets appeared in periodicals throughout Europe. The final scene designed by Desplechin received special praise for its originality. Possibly because of advance publicity and high expectations, the Shipwreck Scene of act 3, executed by numerous stagehands, was deemed by the press to be somewhat disappointing. However, Arthur Pougin writing in 1885 identified the scene as the epitome of the company's grand opera \"mise en scène\".\n\nNotes\nCited sources\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "41793866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41793866", "title": "Letting die", "text": "Letting die\n\nIn non-consequentialist ethical thought, there is a moral distinction between killing and letting die. Whereas killing involves intervention, letting die involves withholding care.\n\nAlso in medical ethics there is a moral distinction between euthanasia and letting die. Legally, patients often have a right to reject life-sustaining care, in areas that do not permit euthanasia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51292995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51292995", "title": "List of athletes at the 2016 Summer Olympics with a prior doping offence", "text": "List of athletes at the 2016 Summer Olympics with a prior doping offence\n\nAll Olympic sports are signed up to the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) code which operates on a strict liability principle, whereby an athlete is strictly liable for any adverse analytical finding from their urine or blood samples. Until 2015, the standard punishment for a first doping offence was two years suspension. For a second or subsequent offence, the standard punishment is between 8 years suspension and a lifetime ban. From 2015 onwards, the standard suspension for an adverse finding involving an unspecified substance such as steroids and human growth hormone was increased to four years.\n\nIn July 2016 the International Olympic Committee (IOC) decided, following the publication of the McLaren Report, that the eligibility of all Russian athletes to compete in the 2016 Olympics must be determined individually by each sport's governing body. This decision was based on the findings about the Russian state-sponsored doping program. Two atheltes, swimmer Yuliya Yefimova and cyclist Olga Zabelinskaya, whose participation would not have been allowed under this ruling, was exceptionally allowed to compete by the IOC after their ban was deemed \"unenforceable\" by the Court of Arbitration for Sport. At least 96 other athletes, representing 52 countries in 13 sports, who were registered to compete have previously been convicted of a doping offence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20385358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20385358", "title": "List of events at Freedom Hall", "text": "List of events at Freedom Hall\n\n1958 Final Four\n1959 Final Four\n\n1962 Final Four\n\n1963 Final Four\n\n1967 Final Four\n\n1969 Final Four\n\n1976 Midwest Regional\n\n1983 Midwest Regional First and Second Rounds\n\n1987 Southeast Regional\n\n1991 Southeast Regional First and Second Rounds\n\n2010 Kansas City Regional First and Second Rounds\n\n2013 Elite Eight\n\n\nThe Kentucky Colonels of the American Basketball Association played their home games in Freedom Hall for six seasons, from the fall of 1970 until the ABA–NBA merger in June 1976. The Colonels moved to Freedom Hall after playing their first three seasons at the Convention Center (1967–68 through 1969–70).\n\nThe first female to play in a professional basketball game did so on the floor of Freedom Hall during a Kentucky Colonels game. Penny Ann Early, an aspiring jockey, briefly entered the game for the Kentucky Colonels against the Los Angeles Stars on November 28, 1968.\n\nThe 1972 ABA All-Star Game was played at Freedom Hall on January 29, 1972. 15,738 fans attended; the East, coached by Kentucky Colonels coach Joe Mullaney, defeated the West 142-115. The game's Most Valuable Player was the Kentucky Colonels' Dan Issel.\n\nMany ABA playoff games were held at Freedom Hall including the Kentucky Colonels winning the 1975 American Basketball Association Championship at Freedom Hall. The following ABA playoff games were played at Freedom Hall:\n\nIn addition, the Kentucky Colonels played several exhibition games against teams from the National Basketball Association in Freedom Hall, winning nine and losing five, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "34308683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34308683", "title": "List of thermal power station failures", "text": "List of thermal power station failures\n\nThis list is concerned with severe and abnormal power outages which caused major power failures due to damage to a single thermal power station itself or its connections which take a significant amount of time - months or years to repair.\n\nWhilst any electric grid is vulnerable to instability after the loss of a large generating source or transmission line, this can generally be dealt with without serious inconvenience to customers. However some power stations can be exceptionally large in respect to connected grid capacity so that any failure for these proportionally large stations can be more problematic than the failure of a typically sized station.\n\n"}
{"id": "728656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=728656", "title": "Lorrin A. Thurston", "text": "Lorrin A. Thurston\n\nLorrin Andrews Thurston (July 31, 1858 – May 11, 1931) was an American lawyer, politician, and businessman born and raised in the Kingdom of Hawaii. The grandson of two of the first Christian missionaries to Hawaii, Thurston played a prominent role in the overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom that replaced Queen Liliuokalani with the Republic of Hawaii, dominated by American interests. He published the \"Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" (a forerunner of the present-day \"Honolulu Star-Advertiser\"), and owned other enterprises. From 1906 to 1916 he and friends lobbied with national politicians to create a National Park to preserve the Hawaiian Volcanoes.\n\nHe was born on July 31, 1858, in Honolulu, Hawaii. His father was Asa Goodale Thurston and mother Sarah Andrews. On his father's side he was grandson of Asa and Lucy Goodale Thurston, who were in the first company of American Christian Missionaries to the Hawaiian Islands in 1820. On his mother's side, he was also the grandson of another early missionary, Lorrin Andrews. His father was speaker of the house of representatives of the Kingdom of Hawaii but died when Lorrin was only a year and a half old in December 1859. He then moved to Maui with his mother.\n\nHe was fluent in the Hawaiian language and gave himself the Hawaiian nickname \"Kakina\".\nIn 1872, he attended Punahou School, then known as Oahu College, where he played baseball with the sons of Alexander Cartwright (who invented the modern game). He was expelled shortly before graduation. After working as a translator for a law firm and clerk at the Wailuku Sugar Company, he attended law school at Columbia University. He returned to Honolulu in 1881 and became partners in a law firm with William Owen Smith.\n\nHe married Margaret Clarissa Shipman (daughter of missionary William Cornelius Shipman (1824–1861) from Hilo, Hawaii and brother of businessman William Herbert Shipman) in February 1884. They had a son Robert Shipman Thurston on February 1, 1888. Margaret died in childbirth on May 5, 1891 (as did the infant).\nOn April 5, 1894, Lorrin Thurston married Harriet Potter of Saint Joseph, Michigan. They had a daughter Margaret Charter (the mother of Thurston Twigg-Smith) in 1895, and a son Lorrin Potter Thurston in 1900.\nLorrin Andrews Thurston died on May 11, 1931. In 1919, Robert Thurston married Evelyn M. Scott, and Margaret Charter married William Twigg-Smith.\n\nLorrin Thurston was influential in both the political arena and the business world of Hawaii.\n\nHe followed his father and became a member of the legislature of the Hawaiian Kingdom in 1886.\nThurston inherited the conservative thinking of the missionaries, which put him at odds with Hawaiian royalty as well as immigrants such as Greek hotelier George Lycurgus who enjoyed lifestyles filled with gambling and liquor. The Missionary Party would change its name to the Reform Party in 1887, as it grew to include business owners.\nIn July 1887 Thurston authored what is called the \"Bayonet Constitution\" because it was imposed under threat by the Honolulu Rifle Company militia. It limited the executive power of the monarch King Kalākaua. Thurston became the powerful Interior Minister, with Englishman William Lowthian Green as minister of finance, as the old cabinet of Walter M. Gibson was ousted. Voting rights and membership of the legislature were based on property ownership, resulting in effective control by wealthy Americans and Europeans.\nHe served in the cabinet until June 17, 1890 when he was replaced by Charles N. Spencer.\n\nQueen Liliuokalani became monarch in 1891 and tried to recover power with a new constitution. In 1892 Thurston led the Annexation Club, later adopting the more dramatic title Committee of Safety, which planned for making Hawaii a territory of the United States. In 1893 the Committee of Safety was supported by the U.S. Military in an overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom, and the resulting Provisional Government of Hawaii was controlled by Thurston's committee.\nThurston headed the commission sent to Washington, D.C. to negotiate with Benjamin Harrison for American annexation. Liliuokalani and Crown Princess Victoria Kaiulani also traveled to Washington and made it clear the new government did not have the support of the majority of the Hawaiian population. As news spread of the force used, the proposed treaty met opposition and was not ratified. A century later in the Apology Resolution of 1993, the U.S. Congress apologized for the involvement of the United States Marine Corps in the overthrow, and the controversy continues to modern times.\n\nIn March 1893 Grover Cleveland became president, and disavowed the treaty. Thurston helped draft another constitution, and the Republic of Hawaii was declared on July 4, 1894. He appointed Sanford B. Dole to the office of President of the Republic. A series of attempted revolts called the Wilcox rebellions were defeated during this period. In 1897 William McKinley became president and Thurston's commission again lobbied for annexation. The Spanish–American War in April 1898 increased American interest in the Pacific, due to battles in the Philippines. \nBy July 1898 the annexation formed the Territory of Hawaii and Thurston retired from political office to run his business affairs.\n\nIn 1898 he purchased the \"Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" newspaper (forerunner of the present-day \"Honolulu Advertiser\").\nAs principal owner and publisher after 1900, he promoted the sugar and pineapple industries. He headed the Hawaiian Promotion Committee (which evolved into the Hawaii Visitors & Convention Bureau), but his conservative values objected to the hula which he called \"suggestive\" and \"indecent\". \nHis fortunes rose considerably as a result of the 1898 annexation by the United States, since it removed all duties from shipments to the largest market. Thurston is credited with promoting the development of Hawaii's sugarcane plantations and railroads and bringing the first electric street cars to Honolulu. \nFollowing World War I he called for government restrictions on Japanese-language schools, legislation that was ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court. Thurston put out a special edition to support the fight to ban billboards in Hawaii. He worked with Wallace Rider Farrington and Alexander Hume Ford to hold a world conference of newspaper editors.\n\nHe was also a volcano enthusiast, starting in his childhood exploring Haleakalā on Maui. He would act as an informal tour guide for visitors to the summit, and used oral history to estimate the time of its last eruption. In 1891, he bought and expanded the Volcano House hotel at the rim of the active Kīlauea volcano on the island of Hawaii. Thurston commissioned a cyclorama of Kīlauea which he displayed in his travels to the mainland, including the Chicago World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 and the California Midwinter International Exposition of 1894 in San Francisco.\nThurston eventually made peace with George Lycurgus, who had been an insurgent against Thurston's government, and sold him the Volcano House in 1902.\nHe also became friends with early volcanologist Dr. Thomas Jaggar in 1909 and raised money to fund the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory in 1912. He used his newspaper to promote the national park idea and convinced the territorial legislature to fund a group of congressmen to visit Haleakalā and Kīlauea in 1907. The trip included a dinner cooked over active lava vents. He hosted a visit by the Secretary of the Interior James Rudolph Garfield in 1908, and another congressional visit in 1909. He convinced Governor Walter F. Frear to introduce a resolution supporting the idea, and formed a survey team to propose exact boundaries. His newspaper printed endorsements of the park by President Theodore Roosevelt (a classmate at Columbia), conservationist John Muir, and powerful Senator Henry Cabot Lodge.\nIn 1913 he explored a lava tube in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park that is named after him. The park was finally formed in 1916.\n\nHe added a preface and published a second edition of his grandmother's book on early missionary life in May 1921.\nHis memoirs were published in a limited edition (along with those of Sanford Dole) after his death in 1931 by his newspaper.\n\nThe newspaper business was run by his son Lorrin Potter Thurston, whose policy of using the term \"Jap\" during World War II pleased the military, but not local readers of Japanese descent. After the war readership declined, until its hostile take-over in 1962 by Lorrin's grandson Thurston Twigg-Smith who changed to a more moderate editorial line. In 1992 it was sold to Gannett Company as the next generation of the family had no interest in running the paper. Twigg-Smith wrote a book about the overthrow and the role of his grandfather in 1998, and criticizing the modern Hawaiian Sovereignty movement.\nIn 1966, a chapel at Punahou School designed by Vladimir Ossipoff was named after Robert Shipman Thurston, Jr. of the class of 1941 who disappeared in World War II.\n\nThurston's legacy is preserved throughout the islands. On Oahu, the Thurston name serves as a marker in many places, including a street named after Thurston in the Punchbowl neighborhood and the Thurston Memorial Chapel on the Punahou Campus. Others include Thurston Lava Tube at the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park on the Big Island.\n\nIn the 2009 film Princess Kaiulani, Thurston was portrayed by Barry Pepper.\n"}
{"id": "31119160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31119160", "title": "Ludum Dare", "text": "Ludum Dare\n\nLudum Dare (LD) (, meaning 'to give a game', formerly Ludum Dare 48 (LD48), also referenced as LDJAM) is an accelerated video game development competition. It was founded by Geoff Howland and was first held in April 2002. It is currently run by Mike Kasprzak, who has been part of the team since the very beginning. Participants are required to create a video game that fits within a given theme in two or three days. A unique feature of this competition is that participants often release a time-lapse video of the development of their game.\n\nLudum Dare was originally only an Internet forum. The first competition—often referred to as \"Ludum Dare Zero\"—was held in April 2002, with 18 participants. Its popularity turned the focus towards the competitions rather than the forum. The time limit was subsequently increased to 48 hours, because 24 hours were decided to be too few. Since 2011 the competition has seen significant annual increases in numbers of game submissions, partly owing to the public awareness of Minecraft designer Markus Persson, who has participated seven times.\n\nUntil 2014, the event was very informal as the Ludum Dare team worked on it in their spare time. Due to the increasing number of contestants, long-time organizer Mike Kasprzak announced in September 2014 that he would attempt at setting up a business model allowing him to work full-time on the project. Charging for Ludum Dare is however \"out of question\", and money is currently exclusively raised through donations.\n\nDuring Ludum Dare 35 in April 2016, an announcement acknowledged various issues regarding the game jam's rating system. In particular, it explained that some users had attempted to artificially boost their game ratings with alternate accounts. As a consequence of this problem, future Ludum Dare events were indefinitely cancelled pending a replacement website being constructed for hosting the game jam. This led to a community backlash, and the game jam in August 2016 went ahead regardless, organized by website administrator and long-time community member \"sorceress\". In respect of the complaints previously raised, the community decided by referendum to forego the game rating phase after the game jam. So uniquely, there were no winners for that one event.\n\nCurrently, Ludum Dare is held three times a year. In the week preceding each competition suggested themes are subject to votes by prospective participants. A theme is subsequently announced before participants are given 48 hours to create a video game (although board games or similar are accepted) that fits within it. All game code and content must be created during the competition and by a single person, and source code is encouraged to be included. During the event many participants record multiple screenshots of the development of their game to later produce a time-lapse video. In addition, many broadcast a live video stream, particularly since April 2013, when a widget showing Ludum Dare video streams hosted on Twitch was added to the Ludum Dare website. After the end of the competition participants are given three weeks to play and rate other submitted games to determine the winners. There are no physical or cash prizes, but each participant retains full ownership of their game—some have achieved financial success after developing their initial submission.\n\nAs of the 18th edition of the competition, which was held in August 2010, a more relaxed version called the \"Jam\" was introduced. The Jam, which allows development teams, private source code and an extended development time of 72 hours, takes place concurrently with the solo competition.\n\nA smaller competition called \"Mini Ludum Dare\" is held during months without a Ludum Dare. These are each hosted by a veteran participant who is free to decide the theme within which the games must fit. The rules are generally the same as in Ludum Dare, but the 48-hour limitation is usually ignored in favor of late participation.\n\nEvery October Ludum Dare hosts the October Challenge, which challenges people to \"Finish a game, take it to market, and earn $1\". Participants have 31 days to upload a link to their game to the website. The event is not competitive and is just a small event to encourage game development from people who do not make money from their games regularly.\n\nNotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "25588215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25588215", "title": "Music Biennale Zagreb", "text": "Music Biennale Zagreb\n\nMusic Biennale Zagreb (, MBZ) is an international festival of contemporary music in Zagreb, Croatia, organized by the Croatian Composers' Society. The Biennale, founded by Milko Kelemen and held every spring of the odd years since 1961, has become one of the most important festivals of contemporary music in Europe.\n\nThroughout its history, the Biennale has given equal weight to classical 20th century repertoire and experimental music, encompassing a variety of musical forms, including symphonic and chamber concerts, opera, ballet, music theatre and multimedia performances. Accompanying lectures, workshops and symposiums are also gaining prominence in recent years. The Biennale has collaborated with some of the biggest international names in contemporary music, including Luciano Berio, John Cage, Peter Maxwell Davies, Mauricio Kagel, Witold Lutosławski, Bruno Maderna and Igor Stravinsky.\n\nThe festival gained international prominence in the 1960s and the 1970s due in large part to an ambivalent position of Yugoslavia in the political and ideological divisions of the Cold War, making it a unique gathering place for artists from both East and West. Just as its founder had hoped, it has provided a boost for Croatian composers and musicians by accelerating their integration into world trends in contemporary music, especially through co-productions and partnerships with their foreign colleagues. It has also proved popular with the concert-going public, as its events are seen by almost ten thousand people, which, according to the festival's long-time director Ivo Josipović, controverts the idea of Biennale being about a \"group of freaks who pour water into a piano\". The festival's popularity is partly due to symbolic ticket prices: in 2011, entrance fee for most events was 20 HRK (c. €3), while the festival pass was available for 150 HRK (€20).\n\nApproximately 70% of the festival's funding is today provided by the Ministry of Culture and the City of Zagreb, while the rest comes through donations and the festival's own income.\n\nIn 2005 the Biennale hosted the ISCM World Music Days. It hosted the World Music Days again in 2011, coinciding with the Biennale's 50th anniversary.\n\nThe idea to organize the Biennale came from Milko Kelemen, a Croatian contemporary classical composer. After studying composition under Olivier Messiaen in Paris in 1954, Kelemen spent some time in Darmstadt, where he was associated with the Darmstadt School. Upon returning to Zagreb, Kelemen got the impression that Croatian music was \"eighty years behind\", and in 1959 had an idea to organize an international festival of contemporary music. However, Zagreb Mayor Većeslav Holjevac was not interested until Kelemen threatened to organize the festival in Belgrade instead; even then, Holjevac could provide funding in domestic currency only, leaving the would-be organizers unable to pay any compensation to foreign participants.\n\nKelemen nevertheless had a plan. He visited Yekaterina Furtseva, Minister of Culture of the Soviet Union, and — knowing she was an ardent communist — told her that the influence of the United States and the West was getting stronger in Yugoslavia, so Soviet musicians were needed in Zagreb. She not only accepted immediately, but also agreed to cover all expenses. After that, Kelemen traveled to Washington and spoke to the State Department, this time arguing that Russian influence in Yugoslavia was very strong and that the Russians had already applied for performing in Zagreb. He asked for Americans to join in, and was again successful. Once Soviet and American participation was secured, Kelemen found that attracting the rest was \"fairly easy\". Still, his organizing efforts earned him two days in prison under interrogation by the Yugoslav secret police, because his frequent trips to Soviet Union and the USA were deemed suspicious. In the end, the first Biennale was a success noted even by \"The New York Times\", which published a half-page review of the event.\n\nOne of the stars of the 2nd Biennale in 1963 was John Cage. Shortly before Cage was due to perform, Kelemen was warned by the authorities that any \"antics\" onstage such as crawling under the piano would lead to the festival being banned. Kelemen immediately relayed this to Cage, warned him about endangering the festival, and asked him to promise he would not crawl under the piano. Cage agreed, yet, as soon as his performance started, he did exactly that. This caused a sensation among the audience; according to Kelemen, \"people went crazy\" and gave Cage a big applause in the end.\n\nThe 3rd Biennale in 1965 was visited by Karlheinz Stockhausen, Bruno Maderna, Pierre Schaeffer, and Olivier Messiaen.\n\nThe 8th Biennale in 1975 was the first to feature performances in the Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall, a large hall and convention center that had opened in December 1973. Up to that time, the Biennale's mainstream events were held mostly in the Croatian National Theatre.\n\nAt the 10th Biennale in 1979, a performance by Tomislav Gotovac caused some controversy. One hundred participants at the Republic Square (today's Ban Jelačić Square), instructed by Gotovac, blew their whistles in accordance with the music score drawn in squares on the sidewalk. At one point, Gotovac unexpectedly stripped naked and started running from square to square. This was the first ever streaking act in Zagreb. Musicologist Nikša Gligo, who was the art director of the 1979 festival, would later say Gotovac did not announce his undressing act, and if he did, Gligo would have tried to talk him out of it by arguing that body art is already \"passé\".\n\nIn 1981, rock music was introduced to the Biennale, with a closing-night concert that featured Classix Nouveaux and Gang of Four, together with some of the most prominent Yugoslav new wave bands Električni orgazam, Laboratorija zvuka, Haustor, and Šarlo akrobata.\n\nA concert by the Slovenian avant-garde music band Laibach at the 1983 Biennale caused a huge scandal. As a part of their music act, they reproduced speeches by the late Yugoslav president Tito while simultaneously displaying a pornographic film. The show was eventually interrupted by the police, and the Biennale once again came on the verge of being abolished. The festival's already exhausted art director Igor Kuljerić had a nervous breakdown and absconded to the island of Silba.\n\nThe 21st Biennale in 2001 lasted ten days, which was its longest duration to date.\n\nThe Biennale's 25th edition was held from 17 to 26 April 2009 at multiple venues, including Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall, Croatian National Theatre, Gavella Drama Theatre, and Mimara Museum. Its theme was \"Art & Politics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31487351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31487351", "title": "New Ways of Analyzing Variation", "text": "New Ways of Analyzing Variation\n\nNew Ways of Analyzing Variation (NWAV) is an annual academic conference in sociolinguistics. NWAV attracts researchers and students conducting linguistic scientific investigations into patterns of language variation, the study of language change in progress, and the interrelationship between language and society, including how language variation is shaped by and continually shape societal institutions, social and interpersonal relationships, and individual and group identities. In 2011, the 40th New Ways of Analyzing Variation (NWAV 40) conference celebrated the special anniversary at its birthplace, Georgetown University. Most recently, NWAV 47 was held at New York University in New York City, New York, October 18–21, 2018; in 2019, NWAV 48 will be held at the University of Oregon in Eugene, Oregon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47643131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47643131", "title": "Pop-up exhibition", "text": "Pop-up exhibition\n\nA pop-up exhibition is a temporary art event, less formal than a gallery or museum but more formal than private artistic showing of work. The idea began in 2007 in New York City where space for exhibiting artistic work is very limited. Although the idea originated from New York City, pop-up exhibitions occur all around the world. A recent example is Banksy's Dismaland, which ran from August to September 2015.\n"}
{"id": "8037167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8037167", "title": "Princess's Theatre, London", "text": "Princess's Theatre, London\n\nThe Princess's Theatre or Princess Theatre was a theatre in Oxford Street, London. The building opened in 1828 as the \"Queen's Bazaar\" and housed a diorama by Clarkson Stanfield and David Roberts. It was converted into a theatre and opened in 1836 as the Princess's Theatre, named for then Princess Victoria before her accession as queen. After an unsuccessful series of promenade concerts, alterations were made on the interior, and the theatre was reopened on 26 December 1842 with Vincenzo Bellini's opera \"La sonnambula\". The theatre, by now under the management of John Medex Maddox, presented operas and other entertainments, such as General Tom Thumb.\n\nThe theatre is best remembered for Charles Kean's Shakespeare revivals, beginning in 1849 and continuing for ten years. Kean presented these in lavish and well-researched \"authentic\" productions and also presented French drama. Dion Boucicault became the theatre's leading actor, and Ellen Terry and Henry Irving got their starts at the theatre. Thereafter, the theatre presented mainly melodrama. H. J. Byron wrote a series of Christmas pantomimes for the theatre, beginning in 1859 with \"Jack the Giant Killer, or, Harlequin, King Arthur, and ye Knights of ye Round Table\" and followed the next year by \"Robinson Crusoe, or Harlequin Friday and the King of the Caribee Islands!\" In 1863, Sefton Parry, recently returned from Cape Town, appeared as Cousin Joe in the farce \"The Rough Diamond.\" In 1864, a particularly popular drama was presented at the theatre called \"The Streets of London\". The theatre was demolished and rebuilt in 1879–80. After this, the theatre continued to present melodramas, including \"The Lights o' London\" (1881) and \"The Silver King\" (1882).\n\nThe theatre closed permanently in 1902 after its last success, \"The Fatal Wedding\", and the building became a warehouse. It was demolished in 1931 and replaced by a Woolworth store, and then subsequently by the Oxford Walk shopping centre. The site is now the location of a sports store.\n\n"}
{"id": "6762807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6762807", "title": "Rock Eisteddfod Challenge results (Australia)", "text": "Rock Eisteddfod Challenge results (Australia)\n\nThese are the results of the Rock Eisteddfod Challenge in Australia, since 1984.\n\n1st – Craigslea State High School\n2nd – Riverside High School\n\n1st – Mitchelton State High School\n\n1st – St Patrick's College\n2nd – King's Christian College\n\nEqual 1st – St Columba’s College\nEqual 1st – Fairhills High School\n3rd – Brunswick Secondary College\n\n1st – Parade College\n2nd – Eltham High School\n\n1st – Kilbreda College and St Bede’s College (Combined)\n2nd – Bendigo Senior Secondary College\n3rd – Lyndhurst Secondary College\nEqual 4th – Hoppers Crossing Secondary College\nEqual 4th – Elisabeth Murdoch College\n\n1st – Northmead Creative And Performing Arts High School\nEqual 2nd – Smith's Hill High School\nEqual 2nd – St Joseph's High School\n4th – Woolooware High School\n5th - Mackellar Girls Campus\n\n1st – Tuggerah Lakes Secondary College (Tumbi Umbi Campus)\n2nd – Northern Beaches Secondary College\n3rd – Colyton High School\n\n1st – Randwick Girls'/Boys' High Schools'\nEqual 2nd – Mackillop Catholic College\nEqual 2nd – MLC School\n4th – East Hills Boys High School\n5th – Smith's Hill High School\n\n1st – Kangaroo Island Community Education Centre\n2nd – Blackwood High School\n\n\n1st - Randwick Girls’/Boy’s High Schools – NSW<br>\n2nd - Kilbreda College and St Bede’s College (Combined) – 93473 - VIC<br>\n3rd (tied) - Mackillop Catholic College – NSW <br>\n3rd (tied) - MLC School – NSW\n\n\n1st - Dapto Public School – NSW<br>\n2nd - St Joseph's Catholic Primary School – NSW<br>\n3rd - Kew Primary School – VIC\n\n\n\n1st - Woolooware High School – The Tell Tale Heart – NSW<br>\n2nd - Knox United – 93473 - VIC<br>\n3rd - St Columba's College – A Grim Tale - VIC\n\n1st – Harristown State High School\n\n1st – Lowood State High School\n\n1st – Launceston Church Grammar School\n2nd – Riverside High School\n\n1st – Lara Secondary College- Peter And The Wolf\n2nd –Brunswick Secondary College - Submerged\n3rd – Overnewton Anglican Community College - The Strange Case...\n4th – Penleigh and Essendon Grammar School - Finding Jack\n5th – Traralgon College - Plastic Fantastic\n\n1st – Knox United – No One Mourns the Wicked\n2nd – Montmorency Secondary College \n3rd – Gladstone Park Secondary College \nEqual 4th – Boort District School\nEqual 4th – Cohuna Secondary College\n\n1st – Gisborne Secondary College\n2nd – Our Lady of The Sacred Heart College – Bentleigh\n3rd – Echuca College\nEqual 4th – Lyndhurst Secondary College\nEqual 4th – Bendigo Senior Secondary College\n\n1st – Swan View Senior High School\n2nd – Perth Modern School\n\n1st – Kalgoorlie – Boulder Community High School\n\n1st – MLC School \nEqual 2nd – Cranebrook High School\nEqual 2nd – Lisarow High School\n4th – Springwood High School\nEqual 5th – Mackellar Girls Campus\nEqual 5th – Northmead Creative And Performing Arts High School\n\n1st – Stella Maris College\n2nd – Woolooware High School\n3rd – Parramatta PCYC\n4th – Tuggerah Lakes Secondary College – Tumbi Umbi Campus\n5th – Emmaus Catholic College\n\n1st – St Peter's Catholic College (Tuggerah)\n2nd – Randwick Girls'/Boys' High Schools\n3rd – Ravenswood School for Girls\n4th – Hornsby Girls' High School\nEqual 5th – Kingswood High School\nEqual 5th – Yr 8–10 Smith's Hill High School\n\n1st – MLC School\n2nd – Year 10, 11 & 12 Smith's Hill High School\n3rd – Cranebrook High School\n\n1st – Launceston Church Grammar School\n2nd – Riverside High School\n\n1st Brighton Secondary School – MAX – SA<br>\n2nd Cranebrook High School- Whaka – NSW<br>\n3rd tied Woolooware High School – Still Alice – NSW and Brunswick Secondary College – Submerged – VIC\n\n1st – Fairhills High School Bon Appetit\n2nd – Pascoe Vale Girls' College The Masks We Wear\n3rd – Parkdale Secondary College The Dream Stealers\n4th – Emerald Secondary College Wanted: Creator of Chaos\n5th – Echuca High School Greed\n\n1st – The Knox School\n2nd – Gladstone Park Secondary College Diamonds Are Forever\n3rd – Penleigh and Essendon Grammar School Hotel Rwanda\n4th – Brentwood Secondary College Evolution\n5th – Parade College\n\n1st – Overnewton Anglican Community College Leaving Home\n2nd – Western Heights College\n4th – Our Lady of the Sacred Heart College - Bentleigh\n3rd – Bendigo Senior Secondary College Flash Point\n5th – Brunswick Secondary College Momento\n\n1st – Mackellar Girls Campus, Northern Beaches Secondary College The Grapes of Wrath\n2nd – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools The House of Berlei: A Story of Our Nation's Foundations\n3rd – Terrigal High School Doorways\n4th – Smith's Hill High School Guernica\n5th – Northmead High School In:Equity\n\n1st – Sutherland PCYC Rosa Parks: Woman Of Colour\n2nd – Stella Maris College\n3rd – Springwood High School\n4th – Parramatta PCYC\n5th – Calwell High School\n\n1st – St Peters Catholic College - Tuggerah\n2nd – Engadine High School\n3rd – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools\n4th – Emmaus Catholic College\n5th – Ravenswood School for Girls\n\n\n\n1st Mackellar Girls High School – The Grapes of Wrath – NSW<br>\n2nd Sutherland PCYC- Rosa Parks: Woman of Colour – NSW<br>\n3rd tied Randwick Boys /Girls High Schools – The House of Berlei: A Story of our Nations Foundations – NSW and Stella Maris College – Dare To Be Different – NSW\n\n1st – Brighton Secondary School\n2nd – Bordertown High School\n3rd – Blackwood High School\n1st – Fairhills High School Oceania\n2nd – St. Columba's College Women's Rites\n3rd – Brunswick Secondary College Glitch\n4th – Pascoe Vale Girls' College MaDness\n5th – Overnewton Anglican Community College Yackadandah Jones and the Golden Natarajah\n1st – Mordialloc Secondary College After The Thunder\n2nd – Lara Secondary College Frida\n3rd – Echuca College The Story of Mother Theresa\n4th – Western Heights College\n5th – Parade College\n1st – Bathurst PCYC\n\nCanceled due to bad weather!\n\n1st – Cairns State High School\n\n1st Kings Christian College\n\nBarrenjoey High School<br>\nCranebrook High School<br>\nDavidson High School<br>\nLisarow High School<br>\nMackellar Girls' High School<br>\nMonaro High School<br>\nNorthmead High School<br>\nPymble Ladies College<br>\nRandwick Boys /Girls' High Schools<br>\nSmith's Hill High School<br>\nSt. Joseph's Catholic High School – Albion Park<br>\nTerrigal High School\n\n1st – Pymble Ladies College – Women Like Me\n2nd – Terrigal High School- Work Forced\n3rd – Randwick Boys and Girls High schools- Looking for Alibrandi\n4th – Mackellar Girls High School – The Barrier; an Irish Love Story\n5th – St Joseph's Catholic High School, Albion Park- Saiyuki – Monkey Magic\n\nBomaderry High School<br>\nChifley College<br>\nEmmaus Catholic College<br>\nMLC School<br>\nNagle College<br>\nNorthern Beaches Secondary College<br>\nParramatta PCYC<br>\nSpringwood High School<br>\nStella Maris College<br>\nTuggerah Lakes Secondary College – Tumbi Umbi Campus\n\n1st – MLC School-The Shades of Grief\n2nd – Bomaderry High School -Rusalka- legend of the lake\n3rd – TIE – Northern Beaches Secondary College-Clara<br>\n& Emmaus Catholic College- the beautiful experience\n4th – Chifley College-the unfortunate tail of angelica cottington\n\nGeorges River College<br>\nPCYC Sutherland<br>\nRandwick Girls' /Boys' High Schools<br>\nSingleton High School<br>\nSt. Columba Anglican School<br>\nSt. Joseph's Catholic College - East Gosford<br>\nSmith's Hill High School<br>\nSt. Peter's Catholic College (Tuggerah)\n\n1st – Singleton High School- Charlie Chaplin YouTube video\n2nd – St. Peter's Catholic College (Tuggerah)- control-controlled?\n3rd – Sutherland PCYC – Beyond The Mirror\n\n\n\n1st St. Columba's College, Melbourne – Women's Rites – VIC<br>\n2nd Mackellar Girls High School- The Barrier: An Irish Love Story – NSW<br>\n3rd Terrigal High School – Workforced – NSW\n\n1st – Woodville High School <br>\n2nd – Brighton Secondary School<br>\n3rd – Salisbury High School <br>\n4th – Merbein Secondary College<br>\n5th – Trinity College North\n\n1st – Bathurst PCYC YouTube Video<br>\n2nd – Kelso High School\n\n1st – St Joseph's Catholic High School<br>\n2nd – Smiths Hill High School<br>\n3rd – Bomaderry High School\n\n1st – Calwell High School<br>\n2nd – Daramalan College\n\n1st – Riverside High School<br>\n2nd – Newstead College<br>\n3rd – Rosetta High School\n\nSt Patricks College\n\n\n1st – Elisabeth Murdoch College\n\n\n1st – St Helena Secondary College<br>\n2nd – Gisborne Secondary College<br>\n3rd – Echuca College<br>\n4th – Bendigo Senior Secondary College<br>\n5th – Billanook College\n\n\n1st – Brunswick Secondary College – Solstice<br>\n2nd – Fairhills High School – Japanime<br>\n3rd – Emerald Secondary College – Labyrinth<br>\n4th – Parkdale Secondary College – Boadicea<br>\n5th – James Fallon High School\n\n1st – St. Peter’s Catholic College Tuggerah<br>\n2nd – Lisarow High School\n\n1st – Toronto High School<br>\n2nd – Macquarie PCYC\n\n\n1st – Belridge Senior High School<br>\n2nd – Canning Vale College<br>\n3rd – Governor Stirling Senior High School<br>\n4th – Como Secondary College<br>\n5th – Kelmscott Senior High School\n\n\n1st Ravenswood School for Girls\n\n\n1st Calwell High School<br>\n2nd Chifley College<br>\n3rd Woolooware High School<br>\n4th Daramalan College<br>\n5th Rose Bay Secondary College\n\n\n1st Randwick Boys /Girls' High Schools – Tank Girl<br>\n2nd Smith's Hill High School- Turandot<br>\n3rd Northmead High School – Capone<br>\n4th Cranebrook High School – Coppelia<br>\n5th Terrigal High School – A Comedy of Terrors\n\n\n\n1st Randwick Boys and Girls High School – Tank Girl – NSW<br>\n2nd Calwell High School- Kokoda – ACT<br>\n3rd Fairhills High School – Japanime – VIC<br>\n4th Northmead High School – Capone – NSW<br>\nTied 5th Cranebrook High School – Coppelia – NSW<br>\nTied 5th Brunswick Secondary College – Solstice – VIC\n\n1st – Brighton Secondary School – Flight of Fancy\n2nd – Seaford 6-12 School–21st Century Vitruvian Man\n3rd – Bordertown High School – Then there were none\n4th – Golden Grove High School – The oppression of swing\n5th – Kangaroo Island Combined Schools – Epidemic\n\n1st – Kelso High School\n\n1st – Marist College Ashgrove – Born To Be Wild YouTube Video\n2nd – Bundaberg North State High School\n3rd – Palm Beach-Currumbin State High School\n4th – Kings Christian College\n5th – Elanora State High School\n\nJandowae State School\n\n1st – Cairns State High School\n\n1st – Calwell High School – The Devils in the Detail\n2nd – Merici College\n\n1st – St Patrick's College, Launceston – Clear The Way\n2nd – Kings Meadows School \n3rd – Scotch Oakburn College\n\nSt Patrick's College, Launceston – Amazed\n\n1st – Brunswick Secondary College – Overload\n2nd – Pakenham Secondary College – Gaia\n3rd – Rowville Secondary College – Retrogradation (Life In Reverse) \n4th – St Helena Secondary College – The Black Plague\n5th – Diamond Valley College – The Ultimate Punishment\n\nMaranatha Christian College – Prodigal's Daughter\n\n1st – St. Columba's College – Fear or No Fear\n2nd – Fairhills High School – The Greatest Show On Earth \n3rd – De La Salle College – Rhythm & Soul\n4th – Tintern Schools – Beat Street \n5th – Red Cliffs Secondary College – Superstitions\n\nKilbreda College\n\n1st – St Peters Catholic College\n\n1st – Lesmurdie Senior High School – Jekyll & Pride \n2nd – Como Secondary College\n3rd – Perth Modern School\n4th – Servite College\n5th – Willetton Senior High School\n\nKalgoorlie - Boulder Community School\n\nRossmoyne Senior High School\n\n1st – Yeppoon State High School\n2nd – Glenmore State High School\n3rd – Mundubbera State School\n\n1st – Cranebrook High School – Taj\n2nd – Northern Beaches Secondary College – Mary Bryant: Her Amazing Escape From Botany Bay\n3rd – Stella Maris College – I Hope This Finds You Well\n4th – Kelso High School – Vampyre\n5th – Engadine High School – Be Yourself\n\nAbbotsleigh\n\n1st – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – A League of Their Own\nYouTube Video\n2nd – Terrigal High School – I Am Sam \n3rd – Mackellar Girls High School – A Streetcar Named Desire \n4th Tied – Smith's Hill High School – Tibet: Roof of the World \nand Northmead High School – Porphyria's LoverYouTube Video\n\nToronto High School\n\n1st – Warwick State High School\n2nd – West Moreton Anglican College\n\nJandowae State School\n\n1st – Ayr State High School\n\nNSW – Randwick Girls and Boys High Schools – A League of Their Own\nYouTube Video\nSA – Brighton Secondary School – Flight of Fancy \nACT – Calwell High School – The Devils in the Detail \nQLD – Marist College – Born To Be Wild \nWA – Lesmurdie Senior High School – Jekyll & Pride \nTAS – St Patricks College – Clear The Way \nVIC – St. Columba's College – Fear or No Fear\n\nFairhills High School – The Greatest Show On Earth\nSmiths Hill High School – Tibet: Roof of the World\nMackellar Girls High School – A Streetcar Named Desire\nNorthmead High School – Porphyria's Lover\n\n1st – St. Columba's College – Fear Or No Fear \n2nd – Smiths Hill High School – Tibet: Roof of the World \n3rd – Randwick Boys /Girls High School – A League of Their Own\nYouTube Video\n4th – Mackellar Girls High School – A Streetcar Named Desire\n5th – Northmead High School – Porphyria's Lover (Rocka)\n6th – Fairhills High School – The Greatest Show On Earth\n\n1st – Sacred Heart College\n2nd – Woodville High School\n3rd – Brighton Secondary School\n4th – Salisbury High School\n5th – Maitland Area School\n\nGleeson College\n\n1st – Harristown State High School\n2nd – Beaudesert State High School\n3rd – Keebra Park State High School\n4th – Shalom College\n5th – Marymount College\n\nWhites Hill State College\n\n1st – Calwell High School\n2nd – Daramalan College \n3rd – Hawker College\n\n1st Tied – St Patrick's College, Launceston and Launceston Church Grammar School\n3rd – Riverside High School\n\n1st – Emerald Secondary College\n2nd – Benalla Youth Group Performers\n3rd – Our Lady of the Sacred Heart College\n4th Tied – Newcomb Secondary College and Mordialloc Secondary College\n\nBacchus Marsh Grammar\n\n1st – Fairhills High School – Hypothesis : 2084\n2nd – Penleigh and Essendon Grammar School\n3rd – Bellarine Secondary College\n4th – Parkdale Secondary College\n5th – Melton Secondary College\n\n1st – Belridge Senior High School\n2nd – John Curtin College of the Arts\n3rd – Como Secondary College\n4th – Lumen Christi College\n5th – Kelmscott Senior High School\n\nSarah Redfern High School<BR>\nCabramatta High School<BR>\nSpringwood High School<BR>\nBlacktown PCYC<BR>\nChifley College<BR>\nKelso High School<BR>\nBlacktown Girls' High School<BR>\nCranebrook High School<BR>\nNorthern Beaches Secondary College<BR>\nWindsor High School,<BR>\nMorisset High School<BR>\nSt. Peter's Catholic College<BR>\nDaramalan College<BR>\nThe Hills Grammar\nBathurst PCYC\n\n1st – St Peter's Catholic College- Guilty Til Proven Innocent\n2nd – Kelso High School- How Loved I Am\n3rd – Cranebrook High School- Ole\n4th – Daramalan College- King Solomon's Mine\n5th – Bathurst PCYC- 1:23 am\n\nKingswood High School\n\nTerrigal High School<BR>\nMonaro High School<BR>\nMackellar Girls' High School<BR>\nSutherland PCYC<BR>\nBarrenjoey High School<BR>\nRandwick Boys and Girls' High School<BR>\nTerra Sancta College<BR>\nLisarow High School<BR>\nColyton High School<BR>\nReddam House<BR>\nNorthmead High School<BR>\nSt. Andrew's College<BR>\nBomaderry High School<BR>\nSmith's Hill High School<BR>\nDavidson High School.\n\n1st – Northmead High School – \n2nd – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – Let Me Entertain You - The Story of Miss Gypsy Rose Lee\n3rd – Smith's Hill High School – \n4th – Terrigal High School – Masque\n5th – Mackellar Girls High School – Stairs - The Haunting\n\n1st. Anthony Walsh with solo performance. Acumbanied by the Harp.\n\n\n\n1st – Northmead High School – Sins: Vice or Virtue \n2nd – Cranebrook High School – Ole \n3rd – Fairhills High School – Hypothesis 2084\n\n\"Capital City Results only\"\n\n1st – Brighton Secondary School\n2nd – Woodville High School\n3rd – Salisbury High School\n\n1st – Murray Bridge High School\n2nd – Bordertown High School\n3rd – Trinity College Gawler\n\n1st – Palm Beach-Currumbin State High School\n2nd – Alexandra Hills State High School\n3rd – Beenleigh State High School\n4th – Bundaberg North State High School\n\n1st Tied – Calwell High School and Merici College\n3rd – Monaro High School\n\n1st – St Patrick's College, Launceston\n2nd – Launceston College \n3rd – Bridgewater College\n\n1st – Tintern Schools\n2nd – Northcote High School – Where Art Thou? \n3rd – Hampton Park Secondary College\n4th – Boort Secondary College\n5th – Brentwood Secondary College\n\nBrunswick Secondary College\n\n1st – Bellarine Secondary College – The Voice Within\n2nd – Fairhills High School – Spellbound\n3rd – Gisborne Secondary College – Who Are You?\n4th – Pascoe Vale Girls' College\n5th – De La Salle College – I See Red\n\n1st – Servite College\n2nd – Perth Modern School\n3rd – Como Secondary College\n\nKearnan College\n\n1st Tied – Davidson High School, 'Bad Knight in Baghdad' and Rose Bay Secondary College, 'I, Robot'\n3rd – Calwell High School\n4th – Cranebrook High School, 'In Concert'\n5th – Emmaus Catholic College\n\nMuirfield High School\n\n1st – Mackellar Girls High School – Fall River\n2nd – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – Paikea – The Legend of the Whale Rider\n3rd – Northmead High School – Sword of Qin\n4th – Smith's Hill High School – A Fine Line\n5th – Pymble Ladies College – Degas\n\n1st – Northmead High School – Sword of Qin \n2nd – Smiths Hill High School – A Fine Line\n3rd – Pymble Ladies College – Degas\n\n\"Capital City Results only\"\n\n1st – Brighton Secondary School<br>\n2nd – St George College<br>\n3rd – Banksia Park International High School<br>\n5th – Seymour College\n\n1st – Harristown State High School\n2nd – Elanora State High School\n3rd – Marist College Ashgrove\n\n1st – Malanda State High School\n2nd – Trinity Bay College\n3rd – Kirwan State High School\n\n1st – Monaro High School\n2nd – Daramalan College\n3rd – Lanyon High School\n\n1st – Newstead College\n2nd – Rosetta High School \n3rd – Bridgewater High School\n\n1st – Penleigh and Essendon Grammar School\n2nd – Mt. St. Joseph Girls’ College \n3rd – Emerald Secondary College\n4th – Our Lady of the Sacred Heart College\n5th – Timboon P–12 School\n\nBenalla Youth Group Performers\n\n1st – St. Columba's College, Melbourne – Cabaret Australia\n2nd – Parkdale Secondary College – Politix the Cabaret\n3rd – Bellarine Secondary College\n4th – Melton Secondary College\n5th – Western Heights Secondary College\n\n1st – Belridge Senior High School\n2nd – Como Secondary College\n3rd – Duncraig Senior High School\n\n1st – Colyton High School - Forever Young: The Matt Shepherd Story \n2nd – Gosford Christian School\n3rd – Sutherland PCYC - Aitya\n4th – Tied – Cranebrook High School - Hear Us Roar and Rose Bay Secondary College - Noddy\n\nMuirfield High School\n\n1st – Tied – Bomaderry High School – \"Waltzing Matilda\" and Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – \"The Secret Garden\"\n3rd – Monaro High School – \"Rising From The Static\"\n4th – Northmead high School – \"Beethoven\"\n5th – Terrigal High School – \"It's No Tea Party Alice\"\n\n1st – St. Columba's College, Melbourne – Cabaret Australia \n2nd – Randwick Boys /Girls High Schools – The Secret Garden\n3rd – Cranebrook High School –\n\n\"Capital City Results only\"\n\n1st – Seaview High School\n2nd – Sacred Heart College Senior School\n3rd – Brighton Secondary College\n4th – Tatachilla Lutheran College\n5th – Merbein Secondary College\n\nTrinity College Blakeview\n\n1st – Palm Beach Currumbin State High School\n2nd – Dalby District Schools\n3rd – Ferny Grove State High School\n4th – Marsden State High School\n5th – St. Thomas More College\n\nJandowae State School\n\n1st – St. Patrick's College\n2nd – Launceston College\n\nDevonport high school\n\n1st – Gisborne Secondary College\n2nd – Mowbray Secondary College \n3rd – Coomoora Secondary College\n4th – Ringwood Secondary College\n5th – Kilbreda College and St. Bedes Combined Schools\n\nGilmore College For Girls\n\n1st – Werribee Secondary College\n2nd – Melton Secondary College\n3rd – Belmont High School\n4th – Overnewton Anglican Community College\n5th – De La Salle College\n\n1st – Como Secondary College\n2nd – Willetton Senior High School\n3rd – Balga Senior High School\n4th – Eastern Hills Senior High School\n5th – John Septimus Roe Anglican Community School\n\nServite College\n\n1st - Marian College - Vision\n\n5th – Bathurst PCYC – Big Brother\n\n1st – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – To Kill A Mockingbird\n2nd – Mackellar Girls High School – African Odyssey\n3rd – Monaro High School – Will You Look At Us By The River\n4th – Lisarow High School – Aiyataiya \n5th – Terrigal High School – An Eiffel of Paris\n\n1st – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – To Kill A Mockingbird \n2nd – Mackellar Girls Campus – African Odyssey\n3rd – Engadine High School – Wild Wild West\n\n1st – Seymour College<br>\n2nd – Banksia Park International High School<br>\n3rd – Maitland Area School<br>\n4th – Brighton Secondary School\n\n1st – Bellarine Secondary College\n2nd – Parkdale Secondary College\n3rd – Western Heights College\n4th – Belmont High School\n5th – Fairhills High School\n\n1st – St. Columba's College- The American Dream\n2nd – Traralgon Secondary College- Gazuntite\n\n1st – John Septimus Roe Anglican Community School\n2nd – Como Secondary College\n3rd – Perth Modern School\n4th – Mandurah Catholic College\n5th – Willetton Senior High School\n\n1st – All Saints St Peters\n\n1st – Irrawang High School – Brave\n2nd – Mackellar Girls High School\n3rd – Davidson High School\n4th – Bathurst PCYC\n5th – Cranebrook High School\n\n1st – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – Othello \n2nd – Terrigal High School – Matryoshka\n3rd – Bomaderry High School- Swan Lake\n4th – Monaro High School – One Moment, One Place, One Kiss \n5th – Northmead High School – So The Tale Goes\n\n1st – Terrigal High School – Matroyska \n2nd – Northmead High School – So The Tale Goes \n3rd – Bomaderry High School- Swan Lake\n\n1st – Hallett Cove School\n2nd – Woodville High School\n4th – The Heights School\n\n1st – Ogilvie High School\n\n1st – Bundaberg North State High School\n\n1st – Monterey Secondary College\n2nd – Bellarine Secondary College\n3rd – Western Heights College\n4th – Melton Secondary College\n5th – Pascoe Vale Girls' Secondary College\n\n1st – Bomaderry High School – The Willow Pattern\n2nd – Tied – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – Carmen <BR>\nand Terra Sancta College – It Takes All Sorts\n3rd – Tied – Lisarow High School – Never Give Up <BR>and Terrigal High School – GK I Got Rhythm\n\nEngadine High School\n\n1st – Catherine McAuley\n2nd – Woolooware High School\n3rd – Lismore PCYC\n4th – Tied – Woolgoolga High School and All Saints College St Peters Campus\n\nBomaderry High School - The willow pattern\n\n1st – Seaview High School\n3rd – Banksia Park International High School<br>\n5th – Brighton Secondary School\n\n1st – Northmead High School – Hawaii's Last Hope\n2nd – Dubbo Christian School – The lion the witch and the wardrobe\n3rd – John Therry Catholic High School – women on mars\n4th – All Saints College St Joseph – dalai lama, a cry for peace\n5th – Marist College Kogarah – Banjo Paterson\n\n1st – Terrigal High School - Two Fathoms Deep<br>\n2nd – Smiths Hill High School - Trivial Pursuit<br>\n3rd – Terra Sancta College - Dreamcatcher<br>\n4th – Monaro High School - Watching the Dream Fulfilled<br>\n5th – Randwick Boys /Girls High Schools - Dreams of an Ordinary Man\n\n1st – Penleigh and Essendon Grammar School<br>\n2nd – Pascoe Vale Girls' Secondary College<br>\n3rd – Newcomb Secondary College<br>\n5th – Melton Secondary College\n\nTerra Sancta College\n\nEngadine High School - The Time Machine\n\n1st – Shailer Park State High School –\n\"Atlantis – The Lost City\"\n\n2nd – Keebra Park State High School – \" The Spirit of Ireland\"\n\n3rd – Miles State High School – \"Awaken The\nSpirits\"\n\n4th – Kenmore State High School – \"Noah's Ark\"\n\n5th – Marsden State High School – \"Freedom From The Press\" – Princess Diana\n\n1st – Melton Secondary College – Russian Revolution\n\n1st – Western Heights College – Crime & Cupid in Cuba\n2nd – Bellarine Secondary College – Platform 2000\n3rd – Monterey Secondary College – Thunderbirds Are Go\n4th – Belmont High School – Men in Black \n5th – Diamond Valley College – Safari\n\n1st – All Saints' St Peters\n\n1st – Monaro High School\n2 sarah redfern high school\n\n3rd – Lisarow High School\n4th – Terra Sancta College\n\nDiamond Valley Secondary College - \"Safari\"\n\n1st – Toronto High School – Let Them Eat Cake\n2nd – Rooty Hill High School – \"The Mask of Zorro\"\n3rd – Cromer High School\n4th – Mackellar Girls' High School\n5th – Engadine High School – \"Mission Impossible\"\n\n1st – Bellarine Secondary College – Something Wicked This Way Comes\n2nd – Shelford Girls' School \n3rd – Belmont High School \n4th – Pascoe Vale Girls' Secondary College \n2nd – Our Lady of Mercy College\n\n1st – St Francis Xavier College\n2nd – Strathmore Secondary College\n3rd – Timboon P-12 School\n\n1st – Perth Modern School – \"Berlin\"\n2nd – Belridge Senior High School -\n\n1st – Ferny Grove State High School-\"Salome –\nDance of Death\"\n2nd – Keebra Park State High School-\"I Believe in a God that can Dance\"\n3rd – Elanora State High School-\"Tibet – The Chinese Invasion of Tibet\"\n4th – Shalom Catholic College – \"Scream\"\n5th – Harristown State High School -\"Simpsons Doh – Seven Deadly sins\"\n\n1st – Taroona High School-\"Spiritual Ritual Tribal Habitual\" –\n\nToronto High School - \"Let them eat cake\"\n\n1st - Morphett Vale High School] - \"Simply Individual\" ,\n\n1st – Monterey Secondary College – \"Batmania\" \n2nd – St. Columba's College, Melbourne – \"The X-Files Conspiracy\" \n3rd – Langwarrin Secondary College – \"Don't Stop The Rain\"\n4th – Bellarine Secondary College -\"Debutante's Dilemma\"\n5th – Echuca High School\n\n1st – Fairhills High School – We Came in Peace<BR>\n2nd – Academy of Mary Immaculate – Fitzroy Festival<BR>\n3rd – Western Heights College – Dragon Slayer\n\n1st – Toronto High School – \"Toll Of Coal\"\n2nd – Pymble Ladies College – \"The Gallery Of Life\"\n3rd – Randwick Boys and Girls High Schools – \"Wuthering Heights\"\n4th – Mackellar Girls' High School- \n5th – Trinity Catholic College Lismore – \"A Star is Torn\"\n\n4th – Northmead High School\n\n1st – Guildford Grammar School – \"Fashion Frenzy\"\n2nd – Perth Modern School – \"Technology: Helpful or Deceitful?\"\n3rd – Mandurah Senior High School – \"Celebrations\"\n4th – La Salle College – \"The Game Of Life\"\n\n5th – Hollywood High School -\n\n1st – Elanora State High School – \"Aztec Cycle of the Sun\"\n\n2nd – Miami State High School – \"Don't Dice Think Twice\"\n\n3rd – Kawana Waters State High School – \"Wildthings\"\n\n4th – Harristown State High School -\" Self Image – The Cat Walk\"\n\n5th – Miles State High School -\" Dreams\"\n\n1st – Alexandra Hills State High School – \"Child\nabuse Living on the Edge of a Rainbow\"\n\nPymble Ladies College – \"The Gallery Of Life\"\n\n1st – Smith's Hill High School- Luna Magic<br>\n4th – Toronto High School – \"Drought\"\n\n1st – Pymble Ladies College – \"What A Buzz!\"<br>\n2nd – Rooty Hill High School – \"Blaze of Glory\"<br>\n3rd – Bomaderry High School – \"Let The Dream Come True\" <br>\n4th - McKellar Girls high School <br>\n5th – Northmead High School\n\n1st – Mt Eliza Secondary College – \"The Magic of Camelot\"<br>\n2nd – Echuca High School – <br>\n3rd – Our Lady of Mercy College – \"Creation\"<br>\n4th – Newcomb Secondary College – \"Where's Wally?\"<br>\n5th – Pascoe Vale Girls' Secondary College – \"Barbie – An Inspiration\"\n\nEqual 1st – Lowther Hall Anglican Grammar School – \"Lest We Forget\"<br>\nEqual 1st – Bellarine Secondary College – \"Prohibition Friction\"<br>\n2nd – Langwarrin Secondary College – \"Oklahoma\"<br>\n3rd – Werribee Secondary College – \"Noah's Ark\" <br>\n4th – St Bernard's College – <br>\n5th – Penleigh and Essendon Grammar School – \"Jigsaw\"\n\n1st – Penrhos College – \"Life is Just a Bowl of Cherries\"<br>\n2nd – Cannington Senior High School – <br>\n3rd – Mandurah Senior High School – \"Dorothy Downunder – The Making of Oz\"<br>\n4th – Eastern Hill Senior High School – \"Seasons\"<br>\n5th – La Salle College -\n\n1ST – Beenleigh State High School\n\n2nd – Kelvin Grove State High School\n\n3rd – Shailer Park State High School\n\n4th – Browns Plains State High School\n\n5th – Elanora State High School\n\nRooty Hill High School – \"Blaze of Glory\"\n\n1st - Miami State High School - \"Television the Drug of the Nation\"\n\n1st – Sarah Redfern High School – \"A World Turning Rite\"\n2nd – Pymble Ladies College – <br>\n3rd - De La Salle College, Ashfield - <br>\n4th – Rooty Hill High School – \"What's So Civil About War?\"\n5th (tie) - Hurlstone Agricultural High School - 'Amaranth, The Eternal Quest' <br>\n5th (tie) - Cromer High School -\n\n5th – Northmead High School\n\n1st – Timboon P12 School –\n\n1st – St. Columba's College, Melbourne – \"Mediogre\"\n2nd – Belmont High School – \"They Said It Could Never Happen\"\n3rd – St Bernards College -\n4th – St. Joseph's College, Echuca -\n5th – Shelford Girls' School –\n\n1st – Padbury Senior High School – \"Blackboard Jungle\"\n2nd – Perth Modern School – \"Let The Ocean Nourish Our Existence\"\n3rd – Mandurah Senior High School – \"Stars and Stripes Stereotyped\"\n4th – Forrestfield Senior High School – \n5th – Perth College –\n\nSt. Columba's College, Melbourne – \"Mediogre\"\n\n1st - Terrigal High School - 'Major Tom' <br>\n2nd - Hurlstone Agricultural High School - 'The Sacred Covenant' <br>\n5th – Northmead High School\n\n1st – De La Salle College (Ashfield)\n2nd – St. Francis Xavier College (Newcastle) – \"Random Tox\"\n3rd – Cromer High School – \"A Bicycle Ride in Hyde Park\"\n4th – Mackellar Girls High School – \n5th – Pymble Ladies College\n\n1st – Langwarrin Secondary College – \"Pure Imagination\"\n2nd – Lowther Hall Anglican Grammar School – \"Playing to Win\"\n3rd – Boronia Heights Secondary College – \"Creation, Mechanisation and Imagination\"<br>\n4th – Belmont High School – \"Le Phantom Paresien\" \n5th – Beaconhills College – \"Bushfire\"\n\n1st Bunbury Senior High School – \"Changing Channels – Will the Family Survive?\"\n2nd Mercedes College – \n3rd Penrhos College – \"Choices – Past, Present and Future\"\n\nRooty Hill High School – \"Clash of the Tartans\"\n\n1st - St Francis Xavier's College (Newcastle) \" What Time is Love\"\n\n2nd - Randwick Girls & Boys High School\n\n3rd - Ashcroft High\n\n4th - Narrabean High\n\n5th - Plumpton High\n\n1st carine senior high school<br>\n2nd – Penrhos College<br>\n3rd – Armadale Senior High School<br>\n4th – Mandurah Senior High School – \"The Land of Make Believe\"\n\nBelmont High School – JFK\n\n1st – Belmont High School\n\n'DE LA SALLE COLLEGE (ASHFIELD)\n\nSt. Columba's College, Melbourne\n\nSYDNEY GRAND FINAL\n\n1st place: Doonside High School (Tie) Cromer High School\n\n2nd Place: Freshwater High School\n\n3rd Place: Mackellar Girls High School\n\n4th Place: Engadine High School\n\n5th Place: Presbyterian Ladies College\nNSW State Winner: Doonside High School in \"The Golden Curse\"\n\nVIC State WInner: Haileybury College \"Wild Boys\"\nKaringal Secondary College\n\nSarah Redfern High School\n\nEntry name: \"Culprits\"\n\nLead dancers: \n\nSculpture Queen - Ann \n\nCulprits - Daniel, Julie, Michelle\n\n1st – Pakenham Secondary College\n\n1st Place - Pittwater High School\n2nd Place - Sarah Redfern High School\nEntry name: 'Desart'\nLead dancers:\nNatalie & Jesus\n3rd – Pakenham Secondary College\n\n1st Place - Sylvania High School 'House of Cards' (Alice in Wonderland)\n\nLead dancers:\nAlice - Nicole Tate\nCheshire Cat - Colette Savage\n2nd Place - Sarah Redfern High School \n\nEntry name: 'Tour Egypt'\n\nLeads dancers:\n\nEgyptian King - Steve\n\nSlave Girl - Nazli\n\n\nBrisbane Winner\nSunnybank State High School - \"Relax\"\n2nd Ipswich Girls Grammar - \"Fashion\"\n3rd Warwick State High School - \"Look Back in Anger\"\n\n1st – St Johns Park High School\n"}
{"id": "8330129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8330129", "title": "Royal Opera House, Valletta", "text": "Royal Opera House, Valletta\n\nThe Royal Opera House, also known as the Royal Theatre (, ), was an opera house and performing arts venue in Valletta, Malta. It was designed by the English architect Edward Middleton Barry and was erected in 1866. In 1873 its interior was extensively damaged by fire but was eventually restored by 1877. The theatre received a direct hit from aerial bombing in 1942 during World War II. Prior to its destruction, it was one of the most beautiful and iconic buildings in Valletta. After several abandoned plans to rebuild the theatre, the ruins were redesigned by the Italian architect Renzo Piano and in 2013 it once again started functioning as a performance venue, called Pjazza Teatru Rjal.\n\nThe design of the building was entrusted to Edward Middleton Barry, the architect of Covent Garden Theatre, and the classic design plan was completed by 1861. The original plans had to be altered because the sloping streets on the sides of the theatre had not been taken into consideration. This resulted in a terrace being added on the side of Strada Reale (nowadays Republic Street) designed by Maltese architects.\n\nThe building of the by site started in 1862, after what was the \"Casa della Giornata\" was demolished. After four years, the Opera House, with a seating capacity of 1,095 and 200 standing, was ready for the official opening on 9 October 1866.\n\nThe theatre was not to last long; on 25 May 1873, a mere six years after its opening, it was brought to a premature end by a fire. The exterior of the theatre was undamaged but the interior stonework was calcified by the intense heat.\n\nIt was decided to rebuild the theatre, and after the issuing of tenders for the work and a lot of arguing whether the front had to be changed or not, the theatre was ready. On 11 October 1877, after nearly four and a half years from the fire, the theatre reopened with a performance of Verdi's Aida.\nSome 65 years later, tragedy struck the Royal Opera House again:\n\nThe remaining structures were levelled down as a safety precaution. There is a claim that German prisoners-of-war in Malta offered to rebuild the theatre in 1946 with the Government declining due to Union pressure; the more likely reason was that hardly anyone of these prisoners of war could be expected to be qualified masons.\n\nAll that remained of the Opera House were the terrace and parts of the columns.\n\nAlthough the bombed site was cleared of much of the rubble and all of the remaining decorative sculpture, rebuilding was repeatedly postponed by successive post-War governments, in favour of reconstruction projects that were deemed to be more pressing.\n\nIn 1953 six renowned architects submitted designs for the new theatre. The Committee chose Zavellani-Rossi's project and recommended its acceptance by Government subject to certain alterations. The project ground to a halt on Labour's re-election, contending that it was not in a position to spend so much money on a theatre when so many other projects needed attention. Although a provision of 280,000 pounds for the reconstruction of the theatre had been made in the 1955-56 budget, these were never used. By 1957 the project had been shelved and after 1961 all references to the theatre in the country's development plans were omitted.\n\nIn the 1980s contact was made with the renowned architect Renzo Piano to design a building to be constructed on site as well as the rehabilitiation of the entrance of the city. Piano submitted the plans which were approved by the Government in 1990 but work never started probably through the controversies the plans generated. In 1996 the incoming Labour Government announced that reconstruction of the site into a commercial and cultural complex together with an underground car park would be Malta's millennium project. In the late 1990s the Maltese architect Richard England was also commissioned to come up with plans for a cultural centre. Each time, controversies killed off all initiatives.\n\nIn 2006 the government announced a proposal to redevelop the site for a dedicated House of Parliament, which by then was located in the former Armoury of the Grandmaster's Palace in Valletta. The proposal was not well received since it had always been assumed that the site would eventually be developed into something that would house a cultural institution, however Renzo Piano was again approached and started to work on new designs. The proposal was ostensibly shelved until after the general elections of 2008 and, on 1 December 2008, Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi revived the proposal with a budget of €80 million. Piano dissuaded the Government from building a Parliament on site of the Opera House, instead planning a House of Parliament on present-day Freedom Square and a re-modelling of the city gate. Piano proposed an open-air theatre for the site.\n\nThe development of the theatre by Piano is the most controversial in its time. The government still went ahead with the plans and the open-air theatre was officially inaugurated on 8 August 2013. The theatre was named \"Pjazza Teatru Rjal\" after the original structure. The name translates to Royal Theatre Square, but the venue is always referred to by its Maltese name, even when written about in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51756553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51756553", "title": "Roz Nixon", "text": "Roz Nixon\n\nRoz Nixon is an American playwright and producer of events. She has presented performances that have featured award winning artists such as Sandra Reeves Phillips, Me'lisa Morgan and Jazz super star Roy Hargrove. She is the founder and executive producer of Roz Nixon Entertainment, which produces music festivals, concerts, and promotional events. A division of her organization books performers for television, commercials and film projects. Known as a \"special's\" casting agent (parts that may not principal but are not background). Casting agents on the east and west coast refer to Nixon as the go to person for finding the perfect actor for a special part. Nixon has written four plays, primarily featuring song and verse regarding famous jazz musicians. Several of her concerts, shows and festivals have been produced in New York, Las Vegas, Miami and Istanbal.\n\nNixon is the executive producer and founder of Great Women in Music, a month-long festival featuring women in Jazz, Blues, Gospel and Soul music. The initial Festival in 2001 featured Jazz legend Gloria Lynne, R&B Diva Alyson Williams and the Queen of Gospel Shirley Caesar. Her festivals have gone on to present performers such as Phoebe Snow, Macy Gray, Carmen Lundy, Ann Hampton Callaway, Lainie Kazan and Melba Moore.\n\nRoz Nixon Entertainment cast actors and music artists for film, television and commercials. Actors from Roz Nixon Entertainment can be found in such films as \"Unfaithful\", \"The Devil Wears Prada, American Gangster\" Music and Lyrics and in episodes of Sex In the City, NYPD Blue and The Good Wife. Miss Nixon was the casting agent for a list of commercials like Heineken, Verizon and New York Knicks commercials.\nAs a playwright, Nixon has penned several plays including \"Nothin' But The Blues\", \"Dedicated To Louis Armstrong\", The first theatrical performance ever in a major Jazz festival as well as the critically acclaimed \"SS Nirvana\": (A Story of Love & Jazz on the High Seas). which was presented at Birdland in New York City. The fantasy jazz musical takes place in \"Madame Royale's Supper Club\" on a cruise ship that features legendary jazz artists such as Louis Armstrong, Sarah Vaughan, and Billy Eckstine.\n\n\n2005 – JVC Jazz Festival, \"Dedicated To Louis Armstrong,\" a biographical musical story dedicated to the life of Louis Armstrong using narration, song, and dance that chronicles his life. Performed at the Blue Note.\n\n2000 – Bell Atlantic Jazz Festival – Nixon presented her work “To Louis Armstrong,” which she wrote and produced. As part of the Bell Atlantic Jazz Fest, it was performed in New York City, Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia.\nIn New York City, it was performed at the Knitting Factory.\n\n\nNixon is also the author of a children's book about music titled \"Singin' Big Mae's Blues\".\n\nIn 2008, after submitting an entertainment story to a local New York newspaper (regarding a social event she attended), Nixon was asked by the paper's editor (Kenton Kirby) to write a weekly article for \"Caribbean Life News\" covering New York City night life. Nixon continues to be a contributing writer for the paper. She has also served as a radio and television show host, and a panelist for music conferences and forums. She is noted as music historian of early period female blues musicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "482324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482324", "title": "S-1 block cipher", "text": "S-1 block cipher\n\nIn cryptography, the S-1 block cipher was a block cipher posted in source code form on Usenet on 11 August 1995. Although incorrect security markings immediately indicated a hoax, there were several features of the code which suggested it might be leaked source code for the Skipjack cipher, which was still classified at the time.\n\nHowever once David Wagner had discovered a severe design flaw, involving the key schedule but not the underlying round function, it was generally accepted as being a hoax—but one with an astonishing amount of work behind it. Bruce Schneier noted that S-1 contained a feature never seen before in the open literature; a G-table that results in key and data dependent rotation of S-boxes to use in a given round . When Skipjack was eventually declassified in 1998, it was indeed found to be totally unlike S-1.\n\n"}
{"id": "1490480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1490480", "title": "Sharm El Sheikh Summit of 2005", "text": "Sharm El Sheikh Summit of 2005\n\nThe Sharm El Sheikh Summit of 2005 took place on 8 February, when four Middle Eastern leaders gathered at Sharm El Sheikh, in the Sinai Peninsula, in an effort to end the four-year Al-Aqsa Intifada. The four leaders were Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, President of the Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, and King Abdullah II of Jordan.\n\nSharon and Abbas explicitly undertook to cease all violence against each other's peoples, marking a formal end to the Al-Aqsa Intifada and to move on in the Road map for peace process. Sharon also agreed to release 900 Palestinian prisoners of the 7,500 being held at the time, and to withdraw from West Bank towns. However, the violence continued into the following years, though suicide bombings decreased significantly. By the spring of 2005, 500 of the prisoners had been released, but after Qassam rocket attacks on Sderot on 5 May, Sharon stopped the release of the remaining 400, saying the Palestinian Authority needs to rein in the militants.\n\nThe Al-Aqsa Intifada, which began in September 2000, left over 5,000 Palestinian and Israeli casualties and took extensive toll on both economies and societies. The cycle of violence persisted throughout this period, except for the short-lived Hudna in mid-2003. \n\nNeither side was willing to negotiate until there was a halt to violence. Yasser Arafat, the man thought by many to have engineered the intifada and to have kept it alive, died in November 2004. The Palestinian presidential election to elect Arafat's successor was held on 9 January 2005 and confirmed Mahmoud Abbas as President of the Palestinian Authority. His initial efforts were to bring order to the anarchy of the Palestinian territories and halt attacks against Israel. Ariel Sharon changed his attitude towards negotiations and ordered a significant reduction of Israeli military activity in the Palestinian territories and took many measures to help Palestinian civilians. \n\nThese trust-building steps, together with renewed security coordination between the two sides and the backing of the United States, Jordan and Egypt led to agreement on holding of the summit.\n\nThe summit began with a series of meetings between Sharon and Mubarak, King Abdullah and Abbas. Later, all leaders except King Abdullah read statements reaffirming their commitment to continued efforts to stabilize the situation and to move on in the Road map for peace process. \n\nSharon and Abbas explicitly included an intended cessation of all violent activity against each other's peoples in their closing statements, marking a formal end to the Al-Aqsa Intifada. Sharon also agreed to release 900 Palestinian prisoners and to withdraw from West Bank towns.\n\nA 2007 report entitled \"Quiet, We're Disengaging! Israeli Media Coverage of the Tense Ceasefire between Israel and the Palestinian Authority Following the Sharm El Sheikh Understandings\" by the Israeli media monitoring NGO Keshev (trans. \"Awareness\"): \n\nThe report also notes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36020483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36020483", "title": "South Ossetian independence referendum, 1992", "text": "South Ossetian independence referendum, 1992\n\nAn independence referendum was held in South Ossetia on 19 January 1992. The voters answered the questions: \"Do you agree that South Ossetia should be an independent country?\" and \"Do you agree with the South Ossetian parliament solution of September 1, 1991 on reunion with Russia?\" The proposals were approved by 99.9% of voters.\n\nOn November 1989 the Supreme Soviet of the South Ossetian Autonomous Oblast voted for conversion to the status of an Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. However, the Georgian government revoked the territory's autonomous status on 1 December 1990. Although Georgia boycotted the March 1991 referendum on creating a renewed Soviet federation, South Ossetian voters took part. When Georgia held an independence referendum later in the month, it was boycotted in South Ossetia.\n\nOn 28 November 1991 the South Ossetia government declared independence.\n"}
{"id": "2097390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2097390", "title": "Subornation of perjury", "text": "Subornation of perjury\n\nIn American law, Scots law and under the law of some English-speaking Commonwealth nations, subornation of perjury is the crime of persuading a person to commit perjury, the swearing of a false oath to tell the truth in a legal proceeding, whether spoken or written. The term \"subornation of perjury\" further describes the circumstance wherein an attorney at law causes a client to lie under oath or allows another party to lie under oath.\n\nIn American federal law, Title provides:\n\nIn California law, per the State bar Code, the subornation of perjury constitutes an act of \"moral turpitude\" on the part of the attorney, and thus is cause for his or her disbarment, or for the suspension of his or her license to practice law.\n\nIn legal practice, the condition of suborning perjury applies to a lawyer who presents either testimony or an affidavit, or both, either to a judge or to a jury, which the attorney knows to be materially false, and not factual. In civil law and in criminal law, the attorney's knowledge that the testimony is materially false must rise above mere suspicion to what an attorney would reasonably have believed in the circumstances of the matter discussed in the testimony. Hence, the attorney cannot be wilfully blind to the fact that his or her witness is giving false, perjurious testimony.\n\nAn attorney who encourages a witness to give false testimony is suborning perjury, a crime punished either with formal disciplinary action, disbarment, jail or a combination thereof. A false statement by an attorney in court also is a crime similar to subornation of perjury and is punished accordingly. In the professional conduct of an attorney at law, there is a fine delineation between assisting a witness to recall events and encouraging him or her to give materially false testimony. The practice of ″horse shedding the witness″ (rehearsing testimony) is an example of such perjurious criminal conduct by an attorney, which is depicted in the true-crime novel \"Anatomy of a Murder\" (1958), by Robert Traver and in the eponymous film (Otto Preminger, 1959), about a rape-and-murder case wherein are explored the ethical and legal problems inherent to the subornation of perjury.\n\n"}
{"id": "492110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492110", "title": "Taylor Opera House", "text": "Taylor Opera House\n\nTaylor Opera House was an opera house in Trenton, New Jersey. It was the city's first theater, and was founded by John Taylor, creator of Pork Roll and one of Trenton's leading citizens. The building first opened March 18, 1867 at 18 S. Broad Street. A historical marker was placed on the site after its demolition.\n\nThe theater presented the major speakers and performers of the day, including Mark Twain, Ethel Barrymore, and George M. Cohan, and played host to political conventions, Bible conferences, musical revues and local meetings and events. It hosted the inaugurations of Governor George B. McClellan in 1877, and Woodrow Wilson in 1910, James F. Fielder in 1914 and Walter Evans Edge in 1917.\n\nIn 1921, it was converted into a movie and vaudeville palace known as Keith's Capitol Theatre; after later sales it was renamed the RKO International.\n\nThe theater was razed by its next door neighbor (the Trenton Saving Fund Society) to create a parking lot in 1969.\n"}
{"id": "42569493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42569493", "title": "The Road to Rome", "text": "The Road to Rome\n\nThe Road to Rome is a play by American author Robert Sherwood. The plot revolves around Hannibal's attempt to capture Rome during the Second Punic War. It was Sherwood's first published play..\n\nThe play opened on Jan. 31, 1927 at the Playhouse Theatre in New York City and was considered a success, running until the next January. It was subsequently revived two months later at the same theater, running from Mar 21, 1928 until Jun 1929.\n\nIn 1955, the play was adapted for the screen in musical version by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer as \"Jupiter's Darling\".\n"}
{"id": "22628797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22628797", "title": "The Trainer", "text": "The Trainer\n\nThe Trainer is a play by David Wilson and Anne Aylor (with writing contributions from composer Keith Burstein).\n\n\"The Trainer\" is a multi-media play set in a posh gym in the basement of a gentlemen’s club, punctuated with excerpts from the (real life) opera \"Manifest Destiny\", news footage from Gaza and inane breakfast TV programmes. It delivers a darkly comical comment on the justice system, while at the same time highlighting the struggles taking place both in Gaza and in the UK and other Western countries to defend humanity from barbarism.\n\nThe play explores the love story between a British Jew, Josh, and his Palestinian fiancée Taghreed (who works as a fitness trainer at the gym in a London gentlemen's club). Their story is interwoven with a predominantly fact-based account of the real-life bankruptcy of British composer Keith Burstein (as the result of a libel trial relating to issues of alleged promotion of terrorism) as told by the attendees of the gym in which Taghreed works (all of whom happen to be Judges of the Court of Appeal).\n\nAfter Keith Burstein and Dic Edwards’ opera \"Manifest Destiny\" was performed at the 2005 Edinburgh Festival Fringe the \"London Evening Standard\" newspaper published a review which claimed that the opera glorified terrorism. Burstein subsequently took the newspaper to court on the grounds that this claim put him at risk under the terms of the Terrorism Acts of 2005 and 2006. The High Court found in his favour and granted him the right to take the case to a trial by jury. However, this decision was reversed in the Court of Appeal, which ordered Burstein to pay the legal costs of the \"London Evening Standard\" (some £70,000). In consequence, Burstein was bankrupted and the Official Receiver seized possession of all of his works (including \"Manifest Destiny\").\n\nThe court case and its aftermath inspired David Wilson and Anne Aylor (in collaboration with Burstein) to write \"The Trainer\". The play covers a fictionalised version of the events of the trial, in parallel with a separate plot strand similar to one used in \"Manifest Destiny\" (that of an educated Palestinian woman with a Jewish lover, driven towards acts of violence in response to the state violence demonstrated in the Middle Eastern conflicts of the late 20th and early 21st centuries).\n\n\"The Trainer\" premiered at Oxford House, London, in March 2009. Actors involved included Corin Redgrave, Tim Pigott-Smith and Lebanese-American actress Jana Zeineddine.\n\nFollowing rewrites, \"The Trainer\" was revived for the fundraising evening \"Two Plays For Gaza\" on May 21, 2009 at the Hackney Empire theatre in London, UK (which also featured a performance of Caryl Churchill's play \"Seven Jewish Children\", talks by Tony Benn and Ben Griffin, and music from Reem Kelani and hip-hop poet Lowkey.) For this production, actors Janie Dee and Roger Lloyd-Pack joined the cast.\n\nBoth productions were directed by Tom Platten.\n\n"}
{"id": "58892658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58892658", "title": "Tiger Conference", "text": "Tiger Conference\n\nTiger Conference is an annual conference, founded in 2012 by the Kyiv Post. The conference brings together more than 400 Ukrainian and world leaders, top managers, top executives of leading companies, media, parliamentarians, diplomats and opinion leaders to exchange ideas about the future of Ukraine in a changing world.\n\nSince 2016, Kyiv Post has launched a \"Top 30 Under 30\" award ceremony, selected by jury on the basis of nominations from readers and business community. This ceremony completes the conference.\n\nAs of 2018, the Tiger Conference has become an independent discussion platform for discussing the strongest challenges of Ukraine.\n\nThe event holds 4 panel discussions, speeches delivered by key speakers, 2 sectional meetings and the award ceremony of the 30 most successful young Ukrainians \"TOP30UNDER30\".\n\nThe Top 30 Under 30 nomination is a popular practice among international editions, research organizations such as Forbes. In Ukraine, the award was launched in 2016 by KyivPost in partnership with the Victor Pinchuk Foundation.\n\nEvery year special jury creates a list of the top 30 most successful young Ukrainians, who inspires and proves that Ukraine has a bright future.\n\nThe winners of the nomination must be a citizen of Ukraine who has not yet reached the age of 30 years and have outstanding achievements in the fields of education, health care, business, science, medicine, social activities, art and other fields. The award is realized in a crystal engraving statuette.\n\nDuring the 7 years og the Tiger Conference, among the speakers there were: Mikheil Saakashvili, Petro Poroshenko, Dmytro Shymkiv, Ariel Cohen, Mark Galeotti, Oksana Syroyid, Michael Bolchuk, Mark Hartling and others.\nOfficial Facebook page\n\nOfficial event page for Tiger Conference 2018\n\nSite of Tiger Conference 2018\n"}
{"id": "51695025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51695025", "title": "Venus Over Manhattan", "text": "Venus Over Manhattan\n\nVenus Over Manhattan was founded in 2012 by Adam Lindemann. The gallery is now known as VENUS, with spaces operating in both Manhattan and Los Angeles. The New York space is dedicated to curated exhibitions both historic and contemporary, which cast a unique and often iconoclastic view on the work of established artists or artists whose works have been somewhat overlooked. Past exhibitions have included those of Alexander Calder, Jack Goldstein, William Copley, Raymond Pettibon, Walter Dahn, Peter Saul, and H.C. Westermann. In New York, VENUS has collaborated with artist foundations, estates, and galleries including The Calder Foundation, White Columns, Sprüth Magers, David Zwirner, the estate of William Copley and the estate of Allan Frumkin.\n\nVENUS opened its Los Angeles space in May 2015. The Los Angeles gallery hosts a primary program in a 14,500 square foot exhibition space in the downtown arts district. It presents exhibitions by a roster of established and emerging talent including Dan Colen, Katherine Bernhardt, Dan McCarthy, Adel Abdessemed, Marianne Vitale, and Elaine Cameron-Weir.\n"}
