{"id": "32894406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32894406", "title": "African Writers Trust", "text": "African Writers Trust\n\nThe African Writers Trust (AWT) was established in 2009 as \"a non-profit entity which seeks to coordinate and bring together African writers in the Diaspora and writers on the continent to promote sharing of skills and other resources, and to foster knowledge and learning between the two groups.\"\n\nThe founder and current Director of AWT is Goretti Kyomuhendo, an internationally recognized novelist with a distinguished career as the first Programmes Coordinator for FEMRITE – Uganda Women Writers' Association.\n\nAfrican Writers Trust is governed by its Advisory Board, currently (as of 2017) composed of Zakes Mda, Susan Nalugwa Kiguli, Ayeta Anne Wangusa, Helon Habila, Leila Aboulela, Mildred Barya, and Aminatta Forna.\n\nAlthough presently headquartered in London, England, African Writers Trust has so far (as of 2011) conducted its activities primarily in East Africa based in part upon that region’s perceived needs and opportunities.\n\nDiana Nabiruma, of \"The Observer\" (Uganda), reported on the fiction workshop and competition organized by the AWT and held at the Uganda Museum in February 2010. On the same, \"The Standard\" (Uganda Christian University’s community newspaper) reported on the success of the Uganda Christian University student writers who attended. \n\nMartin Kanyegirire, also of \"The Observer\" (Uganda), reported on a follow-up one-day workshop held by AWT in January 2011 that involved 20 student-writers from three East African universities.\n\nSince 2013, the AWT has held the biennial Uganda International Writers Conference, with participating international writers. The 2017 conference, on the theme \"Contemporary Publishing Trends in Africa\", featured a keynote address by Bibi Bakare-Yusuf of Cassava Republic Press, and a poetry performance by British-Ethiopian poet Lemn Sissay.\n\nAccording to the African Writers Trust website, the organization’s projected activities and programmes include establishing a Creative Writing School in Uganda, holding the African Writers Trust workshop and competition on an annual basis and in a different nation each year, establishing a Writer’s Fund to allow an established African Diaspora writer to spend a semester at an African university teaching students creative writing, and the like.\n\nIn regard largely to the same, Advisory Board member Mildred Barya has written a personal reflection published in \"Pambazuka News\" on the growing pains of AWT, the challenges of finding funding and support, and her assessment of what the organization can contribute.\n\nIn a 22 May 2011 interview with Caine Prize nominee Beatrice Lamwaka for AfroLit, current Director Goretti Kyomuhendo offered her own assessment of progress-to-date and future expectations for AWT: \"Its mission is to build and sustain a strong supportive network for African writers in Africa and in the Diaspora. As you know, there are many hurdles that African writers have to grapple with in order to achieve their writing and publishing dream. These include lack of or limited publishing opportunities, professional writing skills development, supportive structures to develop and grow as writers and to sustain their creative processes and productions, lack of information on publishing and other resources for writers, lack of cross-border movement of books, and many others. We plan to address some of these problems, so I hope in ten years, we shall have made a difference for African writers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2625032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2625032", "title": "Albion (comics)", "text": "Albion (comics)\n\nAlbion is a six-issue comic book limited series plotted by Alan Moore, written by his daughter Leah Moore and her husband John Reppion, with covers by Dave Gibbons and art by Shane Oakley and George Freeman. As a result of a deal forged by Vice-President Bob Wayne of DC Comics and Publishing Director Andrew Sumner of IPC Media, it was published through DC Comics' WildStorm imprint. The series aimed to revive classic IPC-owned British comics characters such as Captain Hurricane, Robot Archie, The Steel Claw and The Spider (as well as minor characters like Fishboy and Faceache), all of whom appeared in comics published by Odhams Press and later IPC Media during the 1960s and early 1970s, such as \"Valiant\" and \"Lion\".\n\nDebuting with a cover date of August, 2005 the first two issues were released monthly, with the third issue delayed two months (Moore & Reppion cited delays in scheduling impacting the art production). Initially solicited release between October 2005 and January 2006, issues 4–6 were subsequently resolicited, and finally released throughout 2006, with cover dates between June and November. The TPB collection followed swiftly after No. 6 was released in both the US and UK, from WildStorm and Titan Books respectively.\n\nThe story revolves around a modern-day Britain where comic book characters have turned out to really exist. The British public had been largely unaware of their existence throughout the '60s and '70s, thinking them to be fictional.\n\nMost of the IPC heroes are now interred within an asylum (comparisons are drawn with Camp X-Ray), and the daughter of one of the inmates (who calls herself Penny) is determined to reveal their existence to the larger public. Using a similar narrative device to that which Alan Moore employed in \"Supreme\" and \"Tom Strong\", flashbacks are related in the style of comics of yesteryear. For example, Penny Dreadful's childhood is drawn in a style similar to Dennis the Menace or the Bash Street Kids.\n\nA number of characters from UK comics appear in Albion, some are prisoners, others prison guards, others are at large include:\n\nA huge and muscular World War II hero who is the final line of defence in the government prison. He has an old-fashioned style about him; he uses quaint phrases (\"The whole ruddy lot of us\", \"I could do with forty winks\", etc.) and is casually racist. Captain Hurricane's origin is revealed in \"Albion\", he is the result of hundreds of experiments to create a supersoldier through the use of drugs. His assistant 'Maggot' Malone is a medical doctor monitoring his condition and dosing the Captain's tea with sedatives, to prevent him from going into one of his terrifying psychotic \"ragin' furies\".\n\nIan Eagleton, as a child \"Junior Spy\" he had many encounters with Grimly Feendish who terrified him. When he grew up, he became the Warden of the government prison that held all the heroes, villains and other bizarre individuals of his youth.\n\nJason Hyde was exposed to radiation that resulted in him developing x-ray vision and mind-reading abilities. He currently works as a security guard in the prison.\n\nOnce an America police detective who served in both Korea and Vietnam, he is now a member of Special Operations who is investigating potential problems in the Castle.\n\nA computer in the shape of a human head with a skull-like face and transparent cranium who was formerly the property of a boy named Brian Kingsley, the Brain is an \"inmate\" in the government prison who has become integrated with the prison computer systems and has predicted an upcoming disaster.\n\nThe Cloak was a mysterious noseless and bulgy-eyed black-caped secret agent who admired The Shadow and was a self-taught expert at sorcery. Despite his service to his country he was arrested and placed in the government prison along with all the others.\n\nCursitor Doom is an intense-eyed, shaven-headed psychic investigator and seemingly immortal sorcerer cursed to remain forever within the walls of his isolated castle who has been in a coma for the past “twenty-something years”, a condition which has allowed the government to convert his ancient home into a prison.\n\nEric Dolmann is a master inventor and robotics expert, he has created a range of doll-like robots to fight crime. Over twenty years ago he was arrested by \"The Spider\", an event that is witnessed by his daughter Penny. He died in prison.\n\nFaceache, Frederick Akeley has the ability to change or \"scrunge\" his face and body into a vast variety of different forms, many quite monstrous in appearance. He is a trustee in the prison and does impressions of Bruce Forsyth for the guards. He is dating Martha of the Monster Make-Up.\n\nGrimly Feendish (aka Grymleigh Gartside Fiendstien) began his life of crime over thirty years ago, committing crimes including theft, arson, murder and acts of gross indecency with the help of his monstrous little \"Squelchies\". He is eventually arrested and imprisoned in the government prison.\n\nLazlo Gogra is an evil dwarf genius obsessed with possessing the towering robotic simian Mytek the Mighty.\n\nTim Kelly rescued a South American shaman and was given a jewel called the \"Eye of Zoltec\", also known as the \"Eye of Everlasting Life\", which granted him invulnerability. He is currently a prisoner in the government prison, much aged after the jewel's confiscation. The Eye itself is shown to be in the possession of the British Prime Minister since the time of Margaret Thatcher.\n\nBetter known as the Steel Claw, a prisoner and friend of Tim Kelly. Crandall has the ability to turn invisible by directing an electrical shock through his artificial right hand, causing him to vanish completely save for the metal prosthesis itself which seems to eerily float in the air. When Crandall was arrested the Claw was confiscated and locked away in the prison armoury.\n\nMartha has make-up that her father brought home from Anvil Studios which can transform her face into that of a monster. She is in prison and is dating Faceache.\n\nAn incredibly powerful giant robot ape originally built to control unruly natives in colonial Africa which can be operated from a control room inside its head.\n\nJames Hollis, had a curse placed on him by an Indian fakir that turned his body to rubber, allowing him to stretch great distances. He attempted an escape with Tri-man which failed. He is being stored in a cooled cell which negates his elasticity.\n\nThe self-proclaimed \"King of Crooks\", this ego and intellect-driven black-clad, pointy-eared master criminal was employed by the conservative Thatcher government to capture all super-villains and superheroes, all eccentric inventors and magicians, and all bizarre freaks and weirdos and exceptionally rebellious or gifted children who could be considered to be disruptive to the orderly running of British society, and as his reward he was also imprisoned for, as the Spider himself admits, \"Nobody does treachery like the English\". He loves playing mind games and is always looking for ways to escape.\n\nJohnny Small obtained three amazing superpowers from Professor Meek's ray: super-sight, super-speed, and super-strength. He was a prisoner until \"The Spider\" encouraged him to attempt an escape with Rubberman, and he was killed during the attempt.\n\nPenny Dolmann, daughter of inventor Eric Dolmann, was a child who loved to get in trouble and play with her father's robots. She was put into foster care after her father was arrested by the government and had a very difficult time in school. She has inherited her father's inventive genius, and has been locating her father's missing \"dolls\" since she was 18. At the start of \"Albion\" she is looking for allies to find and rescue her father and the other heroes.\n\nA Victorian thief who travelled forward in time to the 1970s when he stole a magical watch from Cursitor Doom. He set up a music shop under the alias \"Charles Love\" and later took over an antique store. He became aware that the government was arresting unique individuals and is very careful about revealing his identity.\n\nA scruffy young collector of old British comics who was apparently orphaned in a bus accident that robbed him of all memory of his previous life. After recognising Grimly Feendish and calling out his name as the master criminal is taken away by the police, he finds himself literally dragged into Penny's quest to find her father and eventually discovers how the secret of his true history is tied both to the castle and to Cursitor Doom.\n\nA Victorian era hero who, born with rubber-like bones, is a brilliant escapologist who can escape from any trap and uses his amazing abilities to solve crimes and fight evil.\n\nAlso known as the \"Buoyant Queen\", the Queen of the Seas is a battered and somewhat less than reliable old ship whose small crew consists of the monocled, cigarette holder-smoking Captain Enoch and his portly first mate Bert.\n\nRobot Archie was an old-fashioned heroic mechanical man who was deactivated and served as a display in a cafe until Penny and Danny rescued and reactivated him.\n\nA tie-in volume entitled \"Albion Origins\" was released by Titan Books in November 2007 in hardback, with a cover by Brian Bolland. This volume was designed to showcase the characters featured in \"Albion\" as they originally appeared in various IPC, Fleetway and other British comics. It featured reprints of several Cursitor Doom, Tim Kelly, Janus Stark and Dolmann stories, as well as newly written articles exploring the history of these characters' comics.\n\n\"Thunderbolt Jaxon\", a \"spinoff\" of Albion – written by Dave Gibbons and drawn by John Higgins, with covers by Gibbons – was launched as a five issue mini-series in 2006. A trade paperback was released in 2007, , which contained some additional info on the original character.\n\n\"Battler Britton\", a five-part series (starting in July 2006) based on IPC's classic World War II air ace, Wing Commander Robert \"Battler\" Britton. Britton was the star of such comics as \"Sun\", \"Knockout\" and the long-running digest titles \"Air Ace Picture Library\" and \"Battle Picture Library\". The script is by well-known comics author (and World War II expert) Garth Ennis, with art by New Zealand's Colin Wilson. Covers are by Garry Leach. A trade paperback was released in 2007, , which contained some additional info on the original character.\n\nA trade paperback collection of the six-issue miniseries was released in the US on 13 December 2006 by WildStorm (). Titan Books published the UK edition a month later, on 26 January ().\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6030646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6030646", "title": "Alfred Bruyas", "text": "Alfred Bruyas\n\nAlfred Bruyas (15 August 1821 – 1 January 1876) was an art collector and a personal friend of many important artists of his time, among them Gustave Courbet. He donated his collection to the Musée Fabre, in Montpellier.\n\nBorn Jacques Louis Bruyas, he was the son of a wealthy banker in Montpellier. His interest in art was clear even at school. In 1840 he studied at the studio of Charles Matet, however he soon recognized the limits of his own talents and shifted his focus to the promotion and collection of contemporary art.\n\nFrom 1849 to 1854 he spent most of his time in Paris. There he collected work by Louis Hector Allemand, Camille Corot, Thomas Couture, Eugène Delacroix, Narcisse Diaz de Peña, Adrien Guignet, Adolphe Hervier, Prosper Marilhat, Edouard-Antoine Marsal, Jean-François Millet, Théodore Rousseau, Philippe-Joseph Tassaert, Marcel Verdier and Constant Troyon, but above all the work of Gustave Courbet.\n\n"}
{"id": "22379656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22379656", "title": "Anglo-Saxon metrical charms", "text": "Anglo-Saxon metrical charms\n\nAnglo-Saxon metrical charms were sets of instructions generally written to magically resolve a situation or disease. Usually, these charms involve some sort of physical action, including making a medical potion, repeating a certain set of words, or writing a specific set of words on an object. These Anglo-Saxon charms tell a great deal about medieval medical theory and practice. Although most medical texts found from the pre-Christian Anglo-Saxon period are translations of Classical texts in Latin, these charms were originally written in Old English. Through these metrical charms, we can more easily understand the religious beliefs and practices that pre-Christian Anglo-Saxon England had; we can also see how the people of that time saw and understood sickness and health.\n\nToday, some non-mainstream medical professionals use herbal remedies, but these are often based on some sort of scientific reason. The medical procedures and herbal remedies in these Anglo-Saxon medical charms are not based on science, but on other spiritual qualities that they were believed to have at the time. While many of these charms do have pagan qualities, they are not entirely anti-Christian, with most of the charms including both pagan and Christian characteristics. For example, the Nine Herbs Charm mentions both the Germanic god Woden and Jesus Christ, the central figure of Christianity.\n\nTwelve Metrical Charms survive in Old English, principally in the collection of medical texts known in modern scholarship as \"Lacnunga\" (10th to 11th century), but also in Bald's Leechbook (10th century) and as marginal additions in other manuscripts. They are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2247288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247288", "title": "Arts district", "text": "Arts district\n\nAn arts district is a demarcated urban area, usually on the periphery of a city centre, intended to create a 'critical mass' of places of cultural consumption - such as art galleries, dance clubs, theatres, art cinemas, music venues, and public squares for performances. Such an area is usually encouraged by public policy-making and planning, but sometimes occurs spontaneously. It is associated with allied service-industry jobs like cafes, printers, fashion outlets, restaurants, and a variety of 'discreet services' (see the back-page small-ads of almost any cultural events-listings magazine).\n\nThere may also be some artists' studios located in nearby back-streets. But, as Richard Florida has found from his research, cultural production facilities are often better sited some miles away from cultural consumption facilities - except in some very tolerant cities and in countries where a boisterous alcohol-based nightlife scene does not lead to aggressive and anti-social behaviour.\n\nIn the UK the term sometimes used is \"Cultural quarter\" or \"Arts quarter\".\n\nSteiner and Butler outline five types of arts districts commonly found in the United States.\n\n\nNotable arts districts in the United States include:\n\n\nArt districts in London include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3198370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3198370", "title": "Assumption of the Virgin (Carracci)", "text": "Assumption of the Virgin (Carracci)\n\nTwo painting showing the Assumption of the Virgin Mary by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci was completed in 1590 and is now the Museo del Prado in Madrid. The same subject was depicted by him on the altarpiece of the famous Cerasi Chapel in Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "3402083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402083", "title": "Australian archaeology", "text": "Australian archaeology\n\nAustralian archaeology is a large sub-field in the discipline of archaeology. Archaeology in Australia takes three main forms, Aboriginal archaeology (the archaeology of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in Australia before and after European settlement), historical archaeology (the archaeology of Australia after European settlement) and maritime archaeology. Bridging these sub-disciplines is the important concept of cultural heritage management which encompasses Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander sites, historical sites and maritime sites.\n\nArchaeological studies or investigations of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and culture in Australia have had many different agendas through time. Initial archaeological investigation was often focused on finding the oldest sites. By the 1970s, archaeological research was concerned with the environment and the way it impacted on humans. In the late 1970s cultural heritage management gained prominence, with the increasing demands by Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander groups for representation in archaeological research. At a research level the focus shifted to cultural change of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people through time.\n\nCurrently, archaeological research places great importance on Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people's viewpoints on the land and history of Australia. Consideration is given to Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people's belief that archaeological sites are not just capsules of the past but a continuation from the past to the present. Therefore, at a research level significance is placed on the past but also on the importance of the present.\nThe first settlement of Australia is a popular research topic both in archaeology and in the public arena. There is consensus that no human or closely related species evolved independently in Australia. This is because there have been no species of primate found in Australia, either in the present or in the fossil record. It is therefore assumed that the first settlers of Australia came from outside. At present the fossil record suggests that the first settlers were \"Homo sapiens\", or fully modern humans.\n\nThere is controversy over where the first Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people originated. Both of the two main theories postulate that the first settlers were fully modern humans. Asian genetic studies have demonstrated that there are similarities between Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, Melanesians and Indians. However, the suggested date of 60,000 years ago for initial settlement is quite early when compared to other areas of the world. This may suggest that the Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander population derive from an early African population which migrated along the south coast of Asia, at a much faster rate than other populations migrating across the continents of the Holocene.\n\nThe first settlement of Australia most likely occurred during the last glacial maximum. During this time Australia and New Guinea were joined as a single land mass called Sahul. The south-east Asian continent and islands were also joined as a single land mass called Sunda. It is theorised that the first Australians crossed the sea between Sahul and Sunda about 60,000 to 40,000 years ago. Other dates have been suggested, and this timeframe is not seen as conclusive. Sunda and Sahul had a permanent water-crossing, meaning that the first Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people had to make a crossing on the open sea (see Wallace Line).\n\nSahul is important in that in the past Australia was not an isolated continent, but was joined with New Guinea (and Tasmania). As such, New Guinea has also been the focus of archaeological investigations by Australian researchers.\n\nThe most important early sites in Australia are:\nThe change in sea levels means that the first settlements located on the coast would have been submerged.\n\nWith the settlement of Australia, it is most probable that Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people first settled on the northern coast, as this is the area closest to Asia. However, the actual spread of people and the settlement of the continent is debated, with three major models put forward:\n\nThere is significant debate over the date of arrival of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people into the Australian continent. Until the 1950s it was often believed that arrival of the first Aboriginal people was within the last 10,000 years. In the 1950s, the dates were extended to the last Ice Age, based upon falling sea-levels at that period and the existence of landbridges linking the islands of the Sunda Shelf and the Sahul Continental Shelf with Australia, New Guinea and Tasmania. The discovery and use of C14 dating extended the dating to 40,000 years at Lake Mungo, and this was the date most frequently given. However, more recently, the analysis of sea levels has shown that coastlines 40,000 years ago were not as exposed as they were 60,000 to 70,000 years ago. The submergence of the earliest sites of occupation due to rising sea levels has meant that the earliest archaeological signature may in fact represent occupation much later than the initial time of arrival. The difficulty in establishing a date of arrival earlier than 50,000 years has been compounded by the widespread use of radiocarbon dating and the supposed \"radiocarbon barrier\" which establishes 40,000 years as a limit to which C14 dates can be easily and reliably extracted. This limitation has prompted many archaeologists, including Rhys Jones and Alan Thorne, to include thermoluminescence dating methods in their studies of early occupation sites. It is argued that 60,000 to 70,000 years best fits the evidence from the Human genome diversity project and a number of other new dating technologies. Some have proposed dates extending back 100,000 to 120,000 years, but these dates are criticised on technical grounds and are not accepted by most scientists. A recent study by Eske Willesev of the University of Copenhagen, of the genome of an Aboriginal man from the Western Australian Goldfields confirms that the Aboriginal population separated from the early human stock 70,000 years ago, in Africa or from Oman, and travelled fairly rapidly across south and south eastern Asia to arrive in Australia at least 50,000 years ago, before a second wave travelled into Europe and Asia, receiving some input from the Aboriginal people who had already made that journey.\n\nEarlier anthropologists believed that there were \"three waves\" of arrival of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people to Australia, the first being the \"negrito\" Tasmanian people, who were displaced by \"Murrayans\", who in turn were considered to be displaced by \"Carpentarians\". These theories were sometimes advocated to disprove the Aboriginal claim to being the indigenous \"first peoples\". The fact that modern Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people cannot explain the Bradshaw figures of North Western Australia was also seen as evidence of displacement of earlier peoples by later arrivals. The finding of a robust skeleton with surprisingly so-called \"primitive\" features at Kow Swamp was also advocated as proof of an earlier wave of settlers to the continent. Dating of the Kow Swamp material, however, showed that rather than being earlier, it was in fact a lot more recent than the nearby Mungo gracile skeletons that more closely resembled modern Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Today it is thought that Aboriginal people throughout the continent are descendants of an original founder population, although this does not completely exclude some contribution from later arrivals.\n\nFor example, on the basis of genomic analysis, it has been found that 4–500 years ago a small band from the Indian sub-continent travelled to northern Australia and contributed to the genome of people living in the north. At that time the appearance of the backed blade tradition, the dingo and other cultural features have been attributed to the arrivals. Nevertheless, it now appears that rather than a connection with the Indian pariah dogs, as previously thought, the dingo shows a greater connection to the dogs of East Asia, and the genetic bottleneck through which they passed may have been due to a single pregnant female, introduced through Austronesian connections 5,000 years ago.\n\nSome researchers, such as Tim Flannery, have put forward the idea that human settlement was responsible for the large climatic and environmental changes that occurred in Australia.\n\nThe extent and causes of the Australian megafaunal extinction—generally placed in the Late Pleistocene—continues as an active debate and is a preoccupation among archaeologists and palaeontologists working in the Australian scene. Besides ongoing attempts to refine the dating and extent of the extinction event(s), much research is actively directed towards establishing whether, or to what extent, anthropogenic effects played a part in the disappearance of dozens of species of large-bodied animals formerly inhabiting the continent. Central to this question is a determination of how long humans and the megafauna species coexisted. Many factors have been considered as possible causes of the extinction, ranging from environmental variables to entirely human-based activity.\n\nThe most extreme theory is that Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people were completely responsible for the extinction of these animals through extensive hunting. This theory is largely based on the overkill hypothesis of the Americas, where hunters travelled through the land exterminating megafauna. The overkill hypothesis is largely discredited (and not just in Australia), as there have been no confirmed discoveries of kill sites, sites that are found in other contexts around the world and associated with megafauna hunting. The sites of Cuddie Springs in New South Wales, and Keilor in Victoria, display some evidence of associations between Aboriginal stone tools and megafauna remains, but do not prove conclusively the overkill theory. Furthermore, the coexistence of Aboriginal populations with the megafauna tends to contradict the overkill hypothesis. These writers suggest \"threshold (for megafauna dieoff) was crossed between 26,000 and 15,000 yr B.P. when the arid area expanded further than usual and water resources in the woodland areas were severely reduced\", although this finding is disputed by Roberts \"et al.\" It is clear from paleobotanical and palaeontological evidence that the extinction coincided with great environmental change. The high-resolution chronology of the changes supports the hypothesis that human hunting alone eliminated the megafauna, and that the subsequent change in flora was most likely a consequence of the elimination of browsers and an increase in fire.\n\nApproximately 18,000 to 7,000 years ago, many societies around the world underwent significant change; in particular, this time marks the rise of agriculture in many Neolithic societies. In the Australian context environmental change did not give rise to the development of agriculture but it may have contributed to the disappearance of populations of animals made even more vulnerable to depletion through hunting and marginalised grazing.\n\nArguably the oldest human remains in Australia, the Lake Mungo 3 skull was given the age of 60,000 years by Gregory Adcock and his researchers. However, this claim has been criticised, largely due to the process used to analyse the skull and the claims regarding the dating and the mtDNA found. Most people suggest that the age of the specimen is approximately 40,000 years. Sensitivities to handling Aboriginal remains means that specimens are not available for further research, so reassessment of the date awaits the development of appropriate ethical protocols.\n\nThe idea of intensification was put forward by a number of archaeologists, but the most prominent in developing the idea was Harry Lourandos. Intensification is an idea that posits that change in economic systems of peoples is controlled by social changes. This means that change can occur without an external force such as environmental change. The idea is derived from a 1990s debate about the Tasmanian Aboriginal people and whether large social/economic change was caused by environmental factors (see \"Environmental determinism\"), or from factors within the society. The predominant view at the time held that in the case of the Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people any social change was largely influenced by external, largely environmental, factors.\n\nThe evidence that supports this idea is that sites at approximately the same time (around 4,000 years ago) experienced increased usage. This is supported by increased site numbers, increased artefact density and an expansion into new environments. This evidence has also been explained by environmental factors, large population growth, technological change, or even post-depositional factors.\n\nKent Flannery's model of the broad spectrum revolution in which foragers diversified the types of food sources harvested, broadening their subsistence base outward to include more fish, small game, water fowl, invertebrates likes snails and shellfish, as well as previously ignored or marginal plant sources, would seem to apply to Australian hunters and gatherers. These changes were linked to climatic changes, including sea level rises during the Flandrian transgression in which:\n\n\nAboriginal people had a good understanding of local ecologies, and harvested many varieties of plants and animals in season. W.E.Roth talks about driving kangaroos into a 3 sided enclosure of nets \"with the assistance of numerous beaters\". Wallabies and emus were also caught in a similar way. Wallaroos were hunted with fire and beaten towards a creek, where they were killed with spears and sticks. Animals were also driven towards set nets and fish traps were common.\n\nThe degree to which Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people on the Australian continent practised agriculture has long been debated by archaeologists. Earlier it was believed that Australian Aboriginal people were ignorant of the principles of agriculture, but this has since been disproven. For instance, Australian Aboriginal women in traditional societies often transplanted immature \"bush tucker\" plants found growing in unfavourable locations to more favourable spots. There were also a number of plants (particularly seeds and roots) that could have lent themselves to cultivation, and were used in making such foods as damper. Charles Sturt in his 1844 expedition to northwest New South Wales and central Australia reports seeing large haystacks built by Aboriginal people of seed crops. This was located east of Depot Glen Milparinka about 600 km from the Murray River. Firestick farming has also always been a technique used by Aboriginal people to open the canopy of closed canopy forests, introducing sunlight to the ground, and prompting germination of a number of foodstuffs known to attract kangaroo and other marsupials. This would encourage a more intensive land use than otherwise. But the main reason for the lack of agriculture in Australia is the extreme variability of the climate. Australia is the only continent on Earth, which, as a result of the El Nino Southern Oscillation, experiences greater variability between years than it does between the seasons. Such climatic variability makes farming very difficult, especially for incipient farmers who cannot be supported from outside their community. Australian Aboriginal people found that maintaining stable populations below the effective carrying capacity of the environment would enable an adequate supply of food, even in drought years, so maintaining a stable culture. This made hunting and gathering a more sustainable activity on the Australian continent than neolithic farming. Evidence of cultivation at Kuk in Papua New Guinea, from about 10–12,000 years BP (at a time when that island was joined to Australia, suggests crop raising was possible in the Sahul supercontinent when conditions were favourable.\n\nHistorical archaeology is the study of the past through material remains such as artefacts (i.e. objects), structures (e.g. standing and ruined buildings, fences, roads), features (e.g. ditches, mounds, canals, landfill), and even whole landscapes modified by human activity and their spatial and stratigraphic contexts.\n\nThe origins of historical archaeology in Australia are generally held to lie in archaeological investigations by the late William (Bill) Culican at Fossil Beach in Victoria, in Jim Allen's PhD research at Port Essington in the Northern Territory and in Judy Birmingham's work at Irrawang Pottery in the Hunter Valley of NSW.\nAn increasingly important area of Australian historical archaeology studies the interaction between European and other settlers, and Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.\n\nUnderwater archaeology is archaeology practised in a submerged environment. It encompasses the pre-historic and historic eras. Maritime archaeology (the study of humans and their activities in, on, around and under the seas, rivers and estuaries) and Nautical archaeology, (the specialised study of boat and ship construction) are allied sub-disciplines of archaeology as a whole. Often the sites or relics are not inundated, however. Of late these various studies have progressed into the industrial and post-war eras. In mirroring their terrestrial roots, underwater archaeology, maritime and nautical archaeology can now include the examination of a wide range of sites ranging from the indigenous through to industrial archaeology and of late the study of wartime and post-war sites, including historic submerged aircraft. Better known as a sub-discipline of aviation archaeology, underwater aviation archaeology is arguably the most recent offshoot of underwater archaeology, having developed its theoretical underpinnings and a substantial corpus of fieldwork, research and publication work in the late 1990s. Maritime archaeology, the first of these sub-disciplines to emerge in Australia, commenced under the aegis of Jeremy Green in the 1970s after concerns were expressed by academics and politicians over the rampant destruction of Dutch and British East Indian ships lost on the west coast. After Commonwealth legislation was enacted and enforced after 1976 and the States enacted their own legislation the sub-discipline spread throughout Australia, as a result of on-going funding by both the States and the Commonwealth. While also encompassing the study of port-related structures (e.g. jetties, anchorages), lighthouses, moorings, defences etc., initially the focus in maritime archaeology was solely on shipwrecks. Now far broader in its scope, in some states maritime and underwater archaeology is managed by museums and in others by cultural heritage management units. There are also numerous practitioners in private practice, or acting as consultants. Regardless, all practitioners operate under the aegis of the Australasian Institute for Maritime Archaeology (AIMA).\n\nCommercial or consulting archaeology (also termed cultural heritage management) only developed in earnest in Australia from the 1970s, with the advent of various state legislation requiring approvals for damage or disturbance to archaeological relics, such as the Aboriginal and Archaeological Relics Preservation Act 1972, in Victoria. The Victoria Archaeological Survey was established from the Relics Office in 1975. Historical Archaeology is generally protected by separate legislation, such as the New South Wales Heritage Act 1977, and the various other state counterparts.\n\nCultural Heritage Management for archaeological sites is seen in the context of wider heritage issues, and follows the principles set out in the Burra Charter or the Australia ICOMOS charter for the conservation of places of cultural significance.\n\nFrom a handful of practitioners in the '70s, there are now more than 250 commercially based archaeologists in Australia. Again in Victoria, one of the first to establish was du Cros and associates (later absorbed by Biosis Research, renamed Biosis Pty Ltd in 2012). The Australian Association of Consulting Archaeologist Inc. (AACAI) is the professional body established in 1979 with presently about 50 full members. In New South Wales, companies such as Casey and Lowe and GML have specialised in large scale historical archaeological salvage.\n\nConsultancy archaeology is primarily driven by development, and so is often at the centre of controversy over ownership of heritage and in particular the conflicting objectives of conservation and development. Aboriginal communities often ascribe a special significance to the places where archaeological remains have been found.\n\nProtection and management of archaeology in Australia is controlled by Federal and State Government legislation including the Commonwealth Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984, The Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act and the various state archaeological legislation such as Victoria's Heritage Act 1995 (covering historical archaeology) and the Aboriginal Heritage Act 2006. Several states maintain archaeological site inventories as the main management tool. The principle of most forms of archaeological legislation in Australia is to provide blanket protection for all archaeological remains and sites, whether or not they have been recorded, and use a system of permits and consents to control change to those sites. for Aboriginal archaeological sites, there is often a requirement for consultation with traditional owners, and they sometimes have a role in approving works that impact on archaeological sites.\n\nNative title is formalised under The Commonwealth Native Title Act 1993 which establishes a framework for the protection and recognition of native title. The Australian legal system recognises native title where:\n\nThis is an abbreviated list of Australian archaeologists who have made a notable contribution to the development of the subject of Australian archaeology.\nThe Australian Archaeological Association is one of the largest and oldest organisations devoted to furthering archaeology of all types within Australia.\n\nThe Australasian Society for Historical Archaeology (ASHA) founded as the Australian Society for Historical Archaeology in 1970. Its aims were, and still are, to promote the study of historical archaeology in Australia.\n\nThe Archaeological and Anthropological Society of Victoria (AASV) is predominantly a non-professional organisation, which was formed in 1976 in through the amalgamation of two earlier societies, the Anthropological Society of Victoria formed in 1934, and the Archaeological Society of Victoria formed in 1964.\n\nThe principal academic journals publishing on Australian Archaeology in Australia, are: \"Australian Archaeology\", \"The Artefact\", the \"Bulletin of the Australasian Institute for Maritime Archaeology\", and \"Australasian Historical Archaeology\", while some history focused journals such as \"History Australia\" also feature Australian Archaeology related topics. Several international journals such as \"Science\", \"Antiquity\" and the \"International Journal of Historical Archaeology\", often publish articles on Australian Archaeology.\n\n"}
{"id": "31708935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31708935", "title": "Baptism of Christ (Perugino, Rome)", "text": "Baptism of Christ (Perugino, Rome)\n\nThe Baptism of Christ is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino and his workshop, executed around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.\n\nThe commission of the work originated in 1480, when Perugino was decorating a chapel in the Old St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. Pope Sixtus IV was pleased by his work, and decided to commission him also the decoration of the new Chapel he had built in the Vatican Palace. Due to the size of the work, Perugino was later joined by a group of painters from Florence, including Botticelli, Ghirlandaio and others.\n\nPerugino's assistants in the Sistine Chapel included Pinturicchio, Andrea d'Assisi, Rocco Zoppo or, less likely, Lo Spagna or Bartolomeo della Gatta, but the attribution of details to them is disputed.\n\nThe fresco of the \"Baptism of Christ\" is the first on the wall on the right of the altar, and parallels \"Moses Leaving to Egypt and the Circumcision of Elezier\" facing it on the opposite wall, also by Perugino's workshop. The baptism was in fact considered by Augustine and other early Christian writers as a kind of \"spiritual circumcision\".\n\nThe scene follows a symmetrical pattern, typical of Perugino. In the center is the Jordan River flowing towards the observer and reaching the feet of Jesus and John, who is baptizing the former. A dove, symbol of the Holy Spirit, descends from the sky; it is sent by God, represented within a luminous cloud and flanked by flying seraphims and cherubims. The landscape includes a symbolic view of Rome, recognizable by a triumphal arch, the Colosseum and the Pantheon. The thin trees are typical of the Umbrian school and of Perugino in particular.\n\nAt the sides are two secondary episodes: the Baptist (left) and Jesus (right) preaching at the crowd. The central scene also features two kneeling angels who are keeping a towel: these are elements inspired by Flemish paintings, and can be seen in works by Hugo van der Goes and in the Portinari Triptych. At the sides, in the foreground, are portraits of contemporary characters, normally rare in Perugino, but in this case spurred by their presence in the works by Ghirlandaio, who was also working in the Sistine Chapel.\n\nThe fresco is surmounted by a frieze with the signature .\n"}
{"id": "7317135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7317135", "title": "Baronci Altarpiece", "text": "Baronci Altarpiece\n\nThe Baronci Altarpiece was a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. His first recorded commission, it was made for Andrea Baronci's chapel in the church of Sant'Agostino in Città di Castello, near Urbino. The altarpiece was seriously damaged during an earthquake in 1789, and since 1849 fragments of the original painting have been part of different collections.\n\nOn December 10, 1500, Raphael and Evangelista da Pian di Meleto, an older painter from the workshop of Raphael's father Giovanni Santi, received the commission to paint jointly a large altarpiece dedicated to Saint Nicholas of Tolentino, for the Baronci chapel in the Sant'Agostino Church in Città di Castello. In the documents Raphael, not his collaborator, is referred to as \"magister\" (\"master\"). The work on the paintings was completed on September 13, 1501.\n\nIn the center of the painting Nicholas of Tolentino stood in an archway, with the devil at his feet. Next to him were three angels. Above him God the Father was placed with a crown in his hand, and surrounded by the heads of angels. On his left the Blessed Virgin Mary and Saint Augustine were painted.\n\nDuring a heavy earthquake in 1789 the painting was damaged so severely that it was decided to saw it into pieces and display only the undamaged parts. In the same year, the fragments were acquired by Pope Pius VI for the collections of the Vatican, where they remained until 1849. It is unclear what happened to them after that. Only many years later scholars were able to trace back six different pieces, four fragments of the main painting and two predellas, which had become part of different collections.\n\nAn impression of the complete work is given by an 18th-century copy in the Pinacoteca Comunale, Città di Castello. Preliminary sketches by Raphael can be found in the Palais des Beaux-Arts de Lille, Lille and the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. On the basis of these drawings it is assumed that the design of the altar was entirely Raphael's work, whereas in the execution he was joined by Evangelista da Pian di Meleto. While Raphael probably painted the altarpiece itself, the predellas are attributed to Pian di Meleto.\n\nFragments of the main altarpiece:\nPredellas:\n\n\"Based on the article from the German Wikipedia, which in turn gives as its sources\":\n\n"}
{"id": "4707523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4707523", "title": "Biodiscovery Toronto", "text": "Biodiscovery Toronto\n\nBioDiscovery Toronto (BDT) is an organization of nine non-profit biomedical research institutions in Toronto.\n\nThe organization acts as a clearing house for private companies seeking biomedical expertise. It gives access to research and biomedical facilities.\n\nThe member institutions are:\n\n"}
{"id": "46382300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46382300", "title": "Bridal crown", "text": "Bridal crown\n\nTraditionally a bridal crown ( or, in the Black Forest, \"Schäppel\") is a headdress that single women wear on certain holidays, at festivals and, finally, at their wedding. Bridal crowns today, of another type, are also often provided by church parishes for the use of brides at their weddings.\n\nA bridal crown, along with the bridal wreath and veil, is probably the oldest decorative form of headdress worn by women. With it the bride would symbolise her purity and it was also a status symbol for her family. Especially in farming areas, the bridal crown was and is very popular. In several regions the bride takes her crown off after the church service and hangs it over the wedding table as a sign of the peace.\n\nThe design of bridal crowns is very varied and depends on the place and region. To begin with they were decorated with flowers, fir branches, herbs and ripe fruits. In later times and even today, more expensive materials were used such as pearls, mirrors, silver and gold.\n\nThese more valuable headdresses could only be afforded by wealthy families. The less well off could, however, borrow them from neighbours and friends in return for payment in kind. Often the churches or parishes had bridal crowns and could hire them out. In the course of the 18th century, the bridal crown was replaced by the bridal wreath in many places, as had been the pagan custom in the 4th century.\n\nWhen Princess Mary of Saxe-Altenburg married King George V of Hanover he wore a large, golden crown and she a somewhat smaller golden bridal crown.\n\nSuch bridal crowns are traditionally worn together with a national or local costume (e.g. \"Tracht\" in Germany or Austria) or as a less expensive item in the shape of a small crown or a diadem.\n\nIn Norway, Sweden and Serbia bridal crowns were made of silver; in Bavaria, Silesia of gold wire, glass stones and glittering metal flakes.\n\nIn the Black Forest, bridal crowns also have pearls, glass balls, mirrors and ribbons or paper roses. Locally bridal crowns are always known as \"Schäppel\" and they vary in design from place to place. An insight into the range of the \"Schäppel\" in the Black Forest is the collection at the Black Forest Costume Museum in Haslach.\n\nThe so-called \"Borta\" is worn by the Sorbs in Lusatia.\n\nIn Thuringia they wear a \"Hormt\" as part of the farming costume at Altenburg.\n\nIn Scandinavia bridal crowns today usually are made of brass, silver or gold, are fashioned like a smaller type of coronet of a princess and often have gems and ornate decorations. They are often attached to long veils. Scandinavian church parishes keep such crowns of their own and lend them to brides for their wedding ceremonies and receptions. The crown relates to the Virgin Mary, and is a statement of a young woman's purity and virginity at her wedding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12013537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12013537", "title": "British Association for Jewish Studies", "text": "British Association for Jewish Studies\n\nThe British Association for Jewish Studies (BAJS) is an organization in the United Kingdom that promotes scholarly study of Jewish culture.\n\nThe society was founded in 1975 as a non-profit, professional organization. Its focus is on supporting and cultivating higher education in the British Isles relating to Jewish culture and history. They also organize conferences and support research and publication.\n\nThe BAJS conducts a survey each year on what courses in Jewish studies are being offered at British universities. The most recent report may be viewed through a link on the BAJS website.\nThe BAJS also holds two essay competitions annually. One is for undergraduates and the other for post-grads. The winners are awarded ￡200 each.\n\nMembership is open to:\n\n\nThe first group, also known as “ordinary members,” are given voting rights at the association's meetings, as well as eligibility for committee membership and office positions.\nThe last two groups are not allowed voting rights, but are allowed to attend conferences.\n\nAn application for membership must include the names of two references, at least one of whom must be an ordinary member of BAJS. The Committee considers the applications, then they are voted on at the annual general meeting.\n\nSubscription fees or dues are also decided on at the annual general meeting.\n\n"}
{"id": "8560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8560", "title": "Design", "text": "Design\n\nDesign is the creation of a plan or convention for the construction of an object, system or measurable human interaction. Design has different connotations in different fields (see design disciplines below). In some cases, the direct construction of an object (as in pottery, engineering, management, coding, and graphic design) is also considered to use design thinking.\n\nDesigning often necessitates considering the aesthetic, functional, economic, and sociopolitical dimensions of both the design object and design process. It may involve considerable research, thought, modeling, interactive adjustment, and re-design. Meanwhile, diverse kinds of objects may be designed, including clothing, graphical user interfaces, products, skyscrapers, corporate identities, business processes, and even methods or processes of designing.\n\nThus \"design\" may be a substantive referring to a categorical abstraction of a created thing or things (the design of something), or a verb for the process of creation as is made clear by grammatical context.\n\nMore formally design has been defined as follows:\nAnother definition for design is \"a roadmap or a strategic approach for someone to achieve a unique expectation. It defines the specifications, plans, parameters, costs, activities, processes and how and what to do within legal, political, social, environmental, safety and economic constraints in achieving that objective.\"\n\nHere, a \"specification\" can be manifested as either a plan or a finished product, and \"primitives\" are the elements from which the design object is composed.\n\nThe person designing is called a designer, which is also a term used for people who work professionally in one of the various design areas usually specifying which area is being dealt with (such as a textile designer, fashion designer, product designer, concept designer, web designer or interior designer). A designer's sequence of activities is called a design process while the scientific study of design is called design science.\n\nAnother definition of design is planning to manufacture an object, system, component or structure. Thus the word \"design\" can be used as a noun or a verb. In a broader sense, design is an applied art and engineering that integrates with technology.\n\nWhile the definition of design is fairly broad, design has a myriad of specifications that professionals utilize in their fields.\n\nMajor examples of design are architectural blueprints, engineering drawings, business processes, circuit diagrams, and sewing patterns\n\nSubstantial disagreement exists concerning how designers in many fields, whether amateur or professional, alone or in teams, produce designs. Kees Dorst and Judith Dijkhuis, both designers themselves, argued that \"there are many ways of describing design processes\" and discussed \"two basic and fundamentally different ways\", both of which have several names. The prevailing view has been called \"the rational model\", \"technical problem solving\" and \"the reason-centric perspective\". The alternative view has been called \"reflection-in-action\", \"evolutionary design\", \"co-evolution\", and \"the action-centric perspective\".\n\nThe rational model was independently developed by Herbert A. Simon, an American scientist, and Gerhard Pahl and Wolfgang Beitz, two German engineering design theorists. It posits that:\n\nThe rational model is based on a rationalist philosophy and underlies the waterfall model, systems development life cycle, and much of the engineering design literature. According to the rationalist philosophy, design is informed by research and knowledge in a predictable and controlled manner.\n\nTypical stages consistent with the rational model include the following:\n\nEach stage has many associated best practices.\n\nThe rational model has been widely criticized on two primary grounds:\n\n\nThe action-centric perspective is a label given to a collection of interrelated concepts, which are antithetical to the rational model. It posits that:\n\n\nThe action-centric perspective is based on an empiricist philosophy and broadly consistent with the agile approach and amethodical development. Substantial empirical evidence supports the veracity of this perspective in describing the actions of real designers. Like the rational model, the action-centric model sees design as informed by research and knowledge. However, research and knowledge are brought into the design process through the judgment and common sense of designers – by designers \"thinking on their feet\" – more than through the predictable and controlled process stipulated by the rational model.\n\nAt least two views of design activity are consistent with the action-centric perspective. Both involve three basic activities.\n\nIn the reflection-in-action paradigm, designers alternate between \"framing\", \"making moves\", and \"evaluating moves\". \"Framing\" refers to conceptualizing the problem, i.e., defining goals and objectives. A \"move\" is a tentative design decision. The evaluation process may lead to further moves in the design.\n\nIn the sensemaking–coevolution–implementation framework, designers alternate between its three titular activities. Sensemaking includes both framing and evaluating moves. Implementation is the process of constructing the design object. Coevolution is \"the process where the design agent simultaneously refines its mental picture of the design object based on its mental picture of the context, and vice versa\".\n\nThe concept of the design cycle is understood as a circular time structure, which may start with the thinking of an idea, then expressing it by the use of visual or verbal means of communication (design tools), the sharing and perceiving of the expressed idea, and finally starting a new cycle with the critical rethinking of the perceived idea. Anderson points out that this concept emphasizes the importance of the means of expression, which at the same time are means of perception of any design ideas.\n\nThere are countless philosophies for guiding design as design values and its accompanying aspects within modern design vary, both between different schools of thought and among practicing designers. Design philosophies are usually for determining design goals. A design goal may range from solving the least significant individual problem of the smallest element, to the most holistic influential utopian goals. Design goals are usually for guiding design. However, conflicts over immediate and minor goals may lead to questioning the purpose of design, perhaps to set better long term or ultimate goals. John Heskett, a 20th-century British writer on design claimed, \"Design, stripped to its essence, can be defined as the human nature to shape and make our environment in ways without precedent in nature, to serve our needs and give meaning to our lives.\"\n\nDesign philosophies are fundamental guiding principles that dictate how a designer approaches his/her practice. Reflections on material culture and environmental concerns (sustainable design) can guide a design philosophy. One example is the First Things First manifesto which was launched within the graphic design community and states \"We propose a reversal of priorities in favor of more useful, lasting and democratic forms of communication – a mindshift away from product marketing and toward the exploration and production of a new kind of meaning. The scope of debate is shrinking; it must expand. Consumerism is running uncontested; it must be challenged by other perspectives expressed, in part, through the visual languages and resources of design.\"\n\nIn \"The Sciences of the Artificial\" by polymath Herbert A. Simon, the author asserts design to be a meta-discipline of all professions. \"Engineers are not the only professional designers. Everyone designs who devises courses of action aimed at changing existing situations into preferred ones. The intellectual activity that produces material artifacts is no different fundamentally from the one that prescribes remedies for a sick patient or the one that devises a new sales plan for a company or a social welfare policy for a state. Design, so construed, is the core of all professional training; it is the principal mark that distinguishes the professions from the sciences. Schools of engineering, as well as schools of architecture, business, education, law, and medicine, are all centrally concerned with the process of design.\"\n\nA design approach is a general philosophy that may or may not include a guide for specific methods. Some are to guide the overall goal of the design. Other approaches are to guide the tendencies of the designer. A combination of approaches may be used if they don't conflict.\n\nSome popular approaches include:\n\nDesign methods is a broad area that focuses on:\n\nThe word \"design\" is often considered ambiguous, as it is applied in varying contexts.\nToday, the term design is widely associated with the applied arts as initiated by Raymond Loewy and teachings at the Bauhaus and Ulm School of Design (HfG Ulm) in Germany during the 20th century.\n\nThe boundaries between art and design are blurred, largely due to a range of applications both for the term 'art' and the term 'design'. Applied arts has been used as an umbrella term to define fields of industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, etc. The term 'decorative arts' is a traditional term used in historical discourses to describe craft objects, and also sits within the umbrella of applied arts. In graphic arts (2D image making that ranges from photography to illustration), the distinction is often made between fine art and commercial art, based on the context within which the work is produced and how it is traded.\n\nTo a degree, some methods for creating work, such as employing intuition, are shared across the disciplines within the applied arts and fine art. Mark Getlein, writer, suggests the principles of design are \"almost instinctive\", \"built-in\", \"natural\", and part of \"our sense of 'rightness'.\" However, the intended application and context of the resulting works will vary greatly.\n\nIn engineering, design is a component of the engineering process. Many overlapping methods and processes can be seen when comparing Product design, Industrial design and Engineering. The American Heritage Dictionary defines design as: \"To conceive or fashion in the mind; invent,\" and \"To formulate a plan\", and defines engineering as: \"The application of scientific and mathematical principles to practical ends such as the design, manufacture, and operation of efficient and economical structures, machines, processes, and systems.\". Both are forms of problem-solving with a defined distinction being the application of \"scientific and mathematical principles\". The increasingly scientific focus of engineering in practice, however, has raised the importance of more new \"human-centered\" fields of design. How much science is applied in a design is a question of what is considered \"science\". Along with the question of what is considered science, there is social science versus natural science. Scientists at Xerox PARC made the distinction of design versus engineering at \"moving minds\" versus \"moving atoms\" (probably in contradiction to the origin of term \"engineering - engineer\" from Latin \"in genio\" in meaning of a \"genius\" what assumes existence of a \"mind\" not of an \"atom\").\n\nThe relationship between design and production is one of planning and executing. In theory, the plan should anticipate and compensate for potential problems in the execution process. Design involves problem-solving and creativity. In contrast, production involves a routine or pre-planned process. A design may also be a mere plan that does not include a production or engineering processes although a working knowledge of such processes is usually expected of designers. In some cases, it may be unnecessary or impractical to expect a designer with a broad multidisciplinary knowledge required for such designs to also have a detailed specialized knowledge of how to produce the product.\n\nDesign and production are intertwined in many creative professional careers, meaning problem-solving is part of execution and the reverse. As the cost of rearrangement increases, the need for separating design from production increases as well. For example, a high-budget project, such as a skyscraper, requires separating (design) architecture from (production) construction. A Low-budget project, such as a locally printed office party invitation flyer, can be rearranged and printed dozens of times at the low cost of a few sheets of paper, a few drops of ink, and less than one hour's pay of a desktop publisher.\n\nThis is not to say that production never involves problem-solving or creativity, nor that design always involves creativity. Designs are rarely perfect and are sometimes repetitive. The imperfection of a design may task a production position (e.g. production artist, construction worker) with utilizing creativity or problem-solving skills to compensate for what was overlooked in the design process. Likewise, a design may be a simple repetition (copy) of a known preexisting solution, requiring minimal, if any, creativity or problem-solving skills from the designer.\n\n\"Process design\" (in contrast to \"design process\" mentioned above) refers to the planning of routine steps of a process aside from the expected result. Processes (in general) are treated as a product of design, not the method of design. The term originated with the industrial designing of chemical processes. With the increasing complexities of the information age, consultants and executives have found the term useful to describe the design of business processes as well as manufacturing processes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47471219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47471219", "title": "Dizelaši", "text": "Dizelaši\n\nDizelaši (singular dizelaš) was an urban street youth sub-culture popular in the 1990s in Serbia. It has been described as a mainstream fashion and social subculture, that of a working class, similar to the British \"Chav\", French \"racaille\" and Russian \"Gopnik\". The French movie \"La Haine\" (1995) is often mentioned in relation to these subcultures. It was characterized by turbo-folk, hip-hop and dance music (such as Đogani), designer clothes (such as Diesel), embroidered sweatshirts and sportswear (such as Nike Air Max and Reebok Pump shoes and Kappa sweatsuits) and link chains. Track jackets were tucked into the bottom pants which in turn were tucked into socks, as to conceal goods; it is said that legendary gangster Knele (1971–1992) popularised it, having used it as a tactic ensuring his gun would slide into his socks rather on the pavement when running from the police.\n\nIt emerged in Belgrade in the late 1980s and became popular by 1992, in a period of embargo on FR Yugoslavia following the outbreak of the Yugoslav Wars. The youths were stereotyped as gangsters (also called \"mangupi\"), involved in illegal activities such as fuel smuggling. The Russian counterpart is the Gopnik sub-culture, with which it is grouped together into \"Post-Soviet fashion\" that has become popular in recent years. In contrast to the \"dizelaši\", the opposing sub-culture was called \"padavičari\", including hippies, rockers, metalheads and ravers. A typical dizelaš was seen as:\n\nThe resurge of the fashion has been dubbed \"Neodizelaši\". The 1995 documentary about Belgrade gangsters, \"Crime that Changed Serbia\", is an icon of the culture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46758811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46758811", "title": "Ethical, Legal and Social Aspects research", "text": "Ethical, Legal and Social Aspects research\n\nThe acronyms ELSI (in the United States) and ELSA (in Europe) refer to research activities that anticipate and address ethical, legal and social implications (ELSI) or aspects (ELSA) of emerging life sciences, notably genomics and nanotechnology. ELSI was conceived in 1988 when James Watson, at the press conference announcing his appointment as director of the Human Genome Project (HGP), suddenly and somewhat unexpectedly declared that the ethical and social implications of genomics warranted a special effort and should be directly funded by the National Institutes of Health.\n\nVarious ELSI or ELSA programs have been developed, in Canada, Europe and the Far East. Overview:\n\n\nAt least four features seem typical for an ELSA approach, namely: \n\nThe ELSA approach has been widely endorsed by academics studying the societal impact of science and technology, but also criticized. Michael Yesley, responsible for the US Department of Energy (DOE) part of the ELSI programme, claims that the ELSI Program was in fact a discourse of justification, selecting topics of ethics research that will facilitate rather than challenge the advance of genetic technology. In other words, ELSA genomics as the handmaiden of genomics research. In Europe, in the context of the Horizon 2020 program, ELSA-style research is now usually framed as Responsible Research and Innovation. \nExamples of academic journals open to publishing ELSA research results are \"New Genetics and Society\" (Taylor and Francis) and \"Life Sciences, Society and Policy\" (SpringerOpen).\n"}
{"id": "47891047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47891047", "title": "Farabi International Award", "text": "Farabi International Award\n\nThe Farabi International Award is given annually by the Iranian Ministry of Science, Research and Technology to individuals who have made outstanding contributions to humanities. Farabi Award winners become a member of Iran's National Elites Foundation. \n\n"}
{"id": "38376411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38376411", "title": "Fenno-Filmi", "text": "Fenno-Filmi\n\nFenno-Filmi was a Finnish film production company.\n\nThe company was founded by film directors Yrjö Norta and Theodor Luts in 1942. Luts and Erkki Uotila were the co-directors of the first Fenno-Filmi production \"Salainen ase\" which premiered on 3 January 1943. \"Erehtyneet sydämet\" was released in April 1944, with Uotila and Eero Leväluoma sharing the director's credits. Later that year, Yrjö Norta directed a film \"Hiipivä vaara\". Norta directed five of Fenno-Filmi's 18 films.\n\nRoland af Hällström made his first Fenno-Filmi effort \"Houkutuslintu\" in 1946. He soon became the head director for the company, a position which he later kept in Fennada-Filmi as well. Edvin Laine, Jorma Nortimo and Teuvo Tulio were some of the other directors who worked for Fenno-Filmi.\n\nThe company was not able to produce commercially successful films and suffered from financial problems since the beginning. When Mauno Mäkelä became the head of the company in 1949, efforts were made to merge the productions of Fenno-Filmi and Adams Filmi. This happened in 1950, and the new company was named Fennada-Filmi. The Finnish Broadcasting Company has been holding the rights to the Fenno-Filmi productions since 1982.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43935749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43935749", "title": "Field sports", "text": "Field sports\n\nThe field sports are outdoor sports, especially hunting, shooting and fishing.\n\nField sports involve the catching or killing of animals for pleasure and are therefore controversial on animal welfare grounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "978203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=978203", "title": "Flag of India", "text": "Flag of India\n\nThe National Flag of India is a horizontal rectangular tricolour of India saffron, white and India green; with the ', a 24-spoke wheel, in navy blue at its centre. It was adopted in its present form during a meeting of the Constituent Assembly held on 22 July 1947, and it became the official flag of the Dominion of India on 15 August 1947. The flag was subsequently retained as that of the Republic of India. In India, the term \"tricolour\" () almost always refers to the Indian national flag. The flag is based on the ' flag, a flag of the Indian National Congress designed by Pingali Venkayya.\n\nBy law, the flag is to be made of \"\", a special type of hand-spun cloth or silk, made popular by Mahatma Gandhi. The manufacturing process and specifications for the flag are laid out by the Bureau of Indian Standards. The right to manufacture the flag is held by the Khadi Development and Village Industries Commission, who allocates it to regional groups. As of 2009, the Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha has been the sole manufacturer of the flag.\n\nUsage of the flag is governed by the Flag Code of India and other laws relating to the national emblems. The original code prohibited use of the flag by private citizens except on national days such as the Independence day and the Republic Day. In 2002, on hearing an appeal from a private citizen, Naveen Jindal, the Supreme Court of India directed the Government of India to amend the code to allow flag usage by private citizens. Subsequently, the Union Cabinet of India amended the code to allow limited usage. The code was amended once more in 2005 to allow some additional use including adaptations on certain forms of clothing. The flag code also governs the protocol of flying the flag and its use in conjunction with other national and non-national flags.\n\nAccording to the Flag code of India, the Indian flag has a ratio of two by three (where the length of the flag is 1.5 times that of the width). All three stripes of the flag (saffron, white and green) are to be equal in width and length. The size of the Ashoka Chakra is not specified in the Flag code, but it has twenty-four spokes that are evenly spaced. In section 4.3.1 of \"IS1: Manufacturing standards for the Indian Flag\", there is a chart that details the size of the Ashoka Chakra on the nine specific sizes of the national flag. In both the Flag code and IS1, they call for the Ashoka Chakra to be printed or painted on both sides of the flag in navy blue. Below is the list of specified shades for all colours used on the national flag, with the exception of Navy Blue, from \"IS1: Manufacturing standards for the Indian Flag\" as defined in the 1931 CIE Colour Specifications with illuminant C. The navy blue colour can be found in the standard IS:1803-1973.\n\nNote that the values given in the table correspond to CIE 1931 color space. Approximate RGB values for use may be taken to be: India saffron #FF9933, white #FFFFFF, India green #138808, navy blue #000080. Pantone values closest to this are 130 U, White, 2258 C and 2735 C.\n\nGandhi first proposed a flag to the Indian National Congress in 1921. The flag was designed by Pingali Venkayya. In the centre was a traditional spinning wheel, symbolising Gandhi's goal of making Indians self-reliant by fabricating their own clothing. The design was then modified to include a white stripe in the centre for other religious communities, and provide a background for the spinning wheel. Subsequently, to avoid sectarian associations with the colour scheme, saffron, white and green were chosen for the three bands, representing courage and sacrifice, peace and truth, and faith and chivalry respectively.\n\nA few days before India became independent on 15 August 1947, the specially constituted Constituent Assembly decided that the flag of India must be acceptable to all parties and communities. A modified version of the \"Swaraj\" flag was chosen; the tricolour remained the same saffron, white and green. However, the \"charkha\" was replaced by the Ashoka Chakra representing the eternal wheel of law. The philosopher Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who later became India's first Vice President and second President, clarified the adopted flag and described its significance as follows:\n\nA number of flags with varying designs were used in the period preceding the Indian Independence Movement by the rulers of different princely states; the idea of a single Indian flag was first raised by the British rulers of India after the rebellion of 1857, which resulted in the establishment of direct imperial rule. The first flag, whose design was based on western heraldic standards, were similar to the flags of other British colonies, including Canada and South Africa; its red field included the Union Flag in the upper-left quadrant and a Star of India capped by the royal crown in the middle of the right half. To address the question of how the star conveyed \"Indianness\", Queen Victoria created the Knight Commander of the Order of the Star of India to honour services to the empire by her Indian subjects. Subsequently, all the Indian princely states received flags with symbols based on the heraldic criteria of Europe including the right to fly defaced British red ensigns.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, around the coronation of Edward VII, a discussion started on the need for a heraldic symbol that was representative of the Indian empire. William Coldstream, a British member of the Indian Civil Service, campaigned the government to change the heraldic symbol from a star, which he considered to be a common choice, to something more appropriate. His proposal was not well received by the government; Lord Curzon rejected it for practical reasons including the multiplication of flags. Around this time, nationalist opinion within the realm was leading to a representation through religious tradition. The symbols that were in vogue included the Ganesha, advocated by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, and Kali, advocated by Aurobindo Ghosh and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay. Another symbol was the cow, or \"Gau Mata\" (cow mother). However, all these symbols were Hindu-centric and did not suggest unity with India's Muslim population.\nThe partition of Bengal (1905) resulted in the introduction of a new flag representing the Indian independence movement that sought to unite the multitude of castes and races within the country. The \"Vande Mataram\" flag, part of the Swadeshi movement against the British, comprised Indian religious symbols represented in western heraldic fashion. The tricolour flag included eight white lotuses on the upper green band representing the eight provinces, a sun and a crescent on the bottom red band, and the \"Vande Mataram\" slogan in Hindi on the central yellow band. The flag was launched in Calcutta bereft of any ceremony and the launch was only briefly covered by newspapers. The flag was not covered in contemporary governmental or political reports either, but was used at the annual session of the Indian National Congress. A slightly modified version was subsequently used by Madam Bhikaji Cama at the second International Socialist Congress in Stuttgart in 1907. Despite the multiple uses of the flag, it failed to generate enthusiasm amongst Indian nationalists.\n\nAround the same time, another proposal for the flag was initiated by Sister Nivedita, a Hindu reformist and disciple of Swami Vivekananda. The flag consisted of a thunderbolt in the centre and a hundred and eight oil lamps for the border, with the \"Vande Mataram\" caption split around the thunderbolt. It was also presented at the Indian National Congress meeting in 1906. Soon, many other proposals were initiated, but none of them gained attention from the nationalist movement.\n\nIn 1909, Lord Ampthill, former Governor of the Madras Presidency, wrote to \"The Times\" of London in the run up to Empire Day pointing out that there existed \"no flag representative of India as a whole or any Indian province... Surely this is strange, seeing that but for India there would be no Empire.\"\n\nIn 1916, Pingali Venkayya submitted thirty new designs, in the form of a booklet funded by members of the High Court of Madras. These many proposals and recommendations did little more than keep the flag movement alive. The same year, Annie Besant and Bal Gangadhar Tilak adopted a new flag as part of the Home Rule Movement. The flag included the Union Jack in the upper left corner, a star and crescent in the upper right, and seven stars displayed diagonally from the lower right, on a background of five red and four green alternating bands. The flag resulted in the first governmental initiative against any nationalistic flag, as a magistrate in Coimbatore banned its use. The ban was followed by a public debate on the function and importance of a national flag.\n\nIn the early 1920s, national flag discussions gained prominence across most British dominions following the peace treaty between Britain and Ireland. In November 1920, the Indian delegation to the League of Nations wanted to use an Indian flag, and this prompted the British Indian government to place renewed emphasis on the flag as a national symbol.\nIn April 1921, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi wrote in his journal \"Young India\" about the need for an Indian flag, proposing a flag with the \"charkha\" or spinning wheel at the centre. The idea of the spinning wheel was put forth by Lala Hansraj, and Gandhi commissioned Pingali Venkayya to design a flag with the spinning wheel on a red and green banner, the red colour signifying Hindus and the green standing for Muslims. Gandhi wanted the flag to be presented at the Congress session of 1921, but it was not delivered on time, and another flag was proposed at the session. Gandhi later wrote that the delay was fortuitous since it allowed him to realise that other religions were not represented; he then added white to the banner colours, to represent all the other religions. Finally, owing to the religious-political sensibilities, in 1929, Gandhi moved towards a more secular interpretation of the flag colours, stating that red stood for the sacrifices of the people, white for purity, and green for hope.\n\nOn 13 April 1923, during a procession by local Congress volunteers in Nagpur commemorating the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, the \"Swaraj\" flag with the spinning wheel, designed by Pingali Venkayya, was hoisted. This event resulted in a confrontation between the Congressmen and the police, after which five people were imprisoned. Over a hundred other protesters continued the flag procession after a meeting. Subsequently, on the first of May, Jamnalal Bajaj, the secretary of the Nagpur Congress Committee, started the \"Flag Satyagraha\", gaining national attention and marking a significant point in the flag movement. The \"satyagraha\", promoted nationally by the Congress, started creating cracks within the organisation in which the Gandhians were highly enthused while the other group, the \"Swarajists\", called it inconsequential.\n\nFinally, at the All India Congress Committee meeting in July, 1923, at the insistence of Jawaharlal Nehru and Sarojini Naidu, Congress closed ranks and the flag movement was endorsed. The flag movement was managed by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel with the idea of public processions and flag displays by common people. By the end of the movement, over 1500 people had been arrested across all of British India. \"The Bombay Chronicle\" reported that the movement drew from diverse groups of society including farmers, students, merchants, labourers and \"national servants\". While Muslim participation was moderate, the movement enthused women, who had hitherto rarely participated in the independence movement.\n\nWhile the flag agitation got its impetus from Gandhi's writings and discourses, the movement received political acceptance following the Nagpur incident. News reports, editorials and letters to editors published in various journals and newspapers of the time attest to the subsequent development of a bond between the flag and the nation. Soon, the concept of preserving the honour of the national flag became an integral component of the independence struggle. While Muslims were still wary of the \"Swaraj\" flag, it gained acceptance among Muslim leaders of the Congress and the Khilafat Movement as the national flag.\n\nDetractors of the flag movement, including Motilal Nehru, soon hailed the \"Swaraj\" flag as a symbol of national unity. Thus, the flag became a significant structural component of the institution of India. In contrast to the subdued responses of the past, the British Indian government took greater cognisance of the new flag, and began to define a policy of response. The British parliament discussed public use of the flag, and based on directives from England, the British Indian government threatened to withdraw funds from municipalities and local governments that did not prevent the display of the \"Swaraj\" flag. The \"Swaraj\" flag became the official flag of Congress at the 1931 meeting. However, by then, the flag had already become the symbol of the independence movement.\n\nA few days before India gained its independence in August 1947, the Constituent Assembly was formed. To select a flag for independent India, on 23 June 1947, the assembly set up an \"ad hoc\" committee headed by Rajendra Prasad and including Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Sarojini Naidu, C. Rajagopalachari, K. M. Munshi and B. R. Ambedkar as its members.\nOn 14 July 1947, the committee recommended that the flag of the Indian National Congress be adopted as the National Flag of India with suitable modifications, so as to make it acceptable to all parties and communities. It was also resolved that the flag should not have any communal undertones. The spinning wheel of the Congress flag was replaced by the \"Chakra\" (wheel) from the Lion Capital of Ashoka. According to Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the \"chakra\" was chosen as it was representative of \"dharma\" and law. However, Jawaharlal Nehru explained that the change was more practical in nature, as unlike the flag with the spinning wheel, this design would appear symmetrical. Gandhi was not very pleased by the change, but eventually came around to accepting it.\n\nThe flag was proposed by Nehru at the Constituent Assembly on 22 July 1947 as a horizontal tricolour of deep saffron, white and dark green in equal proportions, with the Ashoka wheel in blue in the centre of the white band. Nehru also presented two flags, one in Khadi-silk and the other in Khadi-cotton, to the assembly. The resolution was approved unanimously. It served as the national flag of the Dominion of India between 15 August 1947 and 26 January 1950, and has served as the flag of the Republic of India since then.\n\nThe design and manufacturing process for the national flag is regulated by three documents issued by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). All of the flags are made out of khadi cloth of silk or cotton. The standards were created in 1968 and were updated in 2008. Nine standard sizes of the flag are specified by law.\n\nIn 1951, after India became a republic, the Indian Standards Institute (now the BIS) brought out the first official specifications for the flag. These were revised in 1964 to conform to the metric system which was adopted in India. The specifications were further amended on 17 August 1968. The specifications cover all the essential requirements of the manufacture of the Indian flag including sizes, dye colour, chromatic values, brightness, thread count and hemp cordage. The guidelines are covered under civil and criminal laws and defects in the manufacturing process can result in punishments that include fines or jail terms.\n\nKhadi or hand-spun cloth is the only material allowed to be used for the flag, and flying a flag made of any other material is punishable by law with imprisonment up to three years, besides a fine. Raw materials for khadi are restricted to cotton, silk and wool. There are two kinds of khadi used: The first is the khadi-bunting which makes up the body of the flag, and the second is the khadi-duck, which is a beige-coloured cloth that holds the flag to the pole. The khadi-duck is an unconventional type of weave that meshes three threads into a weave, compared to the two threads used in conventional weaving. This type of weaving is extremely rare, and there are fewer than twenty weavers in India professing this skill. The guidelines also state that there should be exactly 150 threads per square centimetre, four threads per stitch, and one square foot should weigh exactly .\n\nThere are four places in the country licensed to make the cloth for the national flag, they are in Karnataka, Marathwada, Barabanki in UP, and Banetha in Rajasthan. The woven khadi is obtained from two handloom units in the Dharwad and Bagalkot districts of northern Karnataka. Currently, Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha based in Hubli is the only licensed flag production and supply unit in India. Permission for setting up flag manufacturing units in India is allotted by the Khadi Development and Village Industries Commission, though the BIS has the power to cancel the licences of units that flout guidelines. The hand-woven khadi for the National Flag was initially manufactured at Garag, a small village in the Dharwad district. A Centre was established at Garag in 1954 by a few freedom fighters under the banner of Dharwad Taluk Kshetriya Seva Sangh and obtained the Centre's licence to make flags.\n\nOnce woven, the material is sent to the BIS laboratories for testing. After quality testing, the material, if approved, is returned to the factory. It is then separated into three lots which are dyed saffron, white and green. The Ashoka Chakra is screen printed, stencilled or suitably embroidered onto each side of the white cloth. Care also has to be taken that the chakra is completely visible and synchronised on both sides. Three pieces of the required dimension, one of each colour, are then stitched together according to specifications and the final product is ironed and packed. The BIS then checks the colours and only then can the flag be sold.\n\nDisplay and usage of the flag is governed by the Flag Code of India, 2002 (successor to the Flag Code – India, the original flag code); the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950; and the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971. Insults to the national flag, including gross affronts or indignities to it, as well as using it in a manner so as to violate the provisions of the Flag Code, are punishable by law with imprisonment up to three years, or a fine, or both.\n\nOfficial regulation states that the flag must never touch the ground or water, or be used as a drapery in any form. The flag may not be intentionally placed upside down, dipped in anything, or hold any objects other than flower petals before unfurling. No sort of lettering may be inscribed on the flag. When out in the open, the flag should always be flown between sunrise and sunset, irrespective of the weather conditions. Prior to 2009, the flag could be flown on a public building at night under special circumstances; currently, Indian citizens can fly the flag even at night, subject to the restriction that the flag should be hoisted on a tall flagpole and be well-illuminated.\n\nThe flag should never be depicted, displayed or flown upside down. Tradition also states that when draped vertically, the flag should not merely be rotated 90degrees, but also reversed. One \"reads\" a flag like the pages of a book, from top to bottom and from left to right, and after rotation the results should be the same. It is considered insulting to display the flag in a frayed or dirty state, and the same rule applies to the flagpoles and halyards used to hoist the flag, which should always be in a proper state of maintenance.\n\nThe original flag code of India did not allow private citizens to fly the national flag except on national days such as Independence Day or Republic Day. In 2001, Naveen Jindal, an industrialist used to the more egalitarian use of the flag in the United States where he studied, flew the Indian flag on his office building. The flag was confiscated and he was warned of prosecution. Jindal filed a public interest litigation petition in the High Court of Delhi; he sought to strike down the restriction on the use of the flag by private citizens, arguing that hoisting the national flag with due decorum and honour was his right as a citizen, and a way of expressing his love for the country.\n\nAt the end of the appeals process, the case was heard by the Supreme Court of India; the court ruled in Jindal's favour, asking the Government of India to consider the matter. The Union Cabinet of India then amended the Indian Flag Code with effect from 26 January 2002, allowing private citizens to hoist the flag on any day of the year, subject to their safeguarding the dignity, honour and respect of the flag. It is also held that the code was not a statute and restrictions under the code ought to be followed; also, the right to fly the flag is a qualified right, unlike the absolute rights guaranteed to citizens, and should be interpreted in the context of Article 19 of the Constitution of India.\n\nThe original flag code also forbade use of the flag on uniforms, costumes and other clothing. In July 2005, the Government of India amended the code to allow some forms of usage. The amended code forbids usage in clothing below the waist and on undergarments, and forbids embroidering onto pillowcases, handkerchiefs or other dress material.\n\nDisposal of damaged flags is also covered by the flag code. Damaged or soiled flags may not be cast aside or disrespectfully destroyed; they have to be destroyed as a whole in private, preferably by burning or by any other method consistent with the dignity of the flag.\n\nThe rules regarding the correct methods to display the flag state that when two flags are fully spread out horizontally on a wall behind a podium, their hoists should be towards each other with the saffron stripes uppermost. If the flag is displayed on a short flagpole, this should be mounted at an angle to the wall with the flag draped tastefully from it. If two national flags are displayed on crossed staffs, the hoists must be towards each other and the flags must be fully spread out. The flag should never be used as a cloth to cover tables, lecterns, podiums or buildings, or be draped from railings.\n\nWhenever the flag is displayed indoors in halls at public meetings or gatherings of any kind, it should always be on the right (observers' left), as this is the position of authority. So when the flag is displayed next to a speaker in the hall or other meeting place, it must be placed on the speaker's right hand. When it is displayed elsewhere in the hall, it should be to the right of the audience. The flag should be displayed completely spread out with the saffron stripe on top. If hung vertically on the wall behind the podium, the saffron stripe should be to the left of the onlookers facing the flag with the hoist cord at the top.\nThe flag, when carried in a procession or parade or with another flag or flags, should be on the marching right or alone in the centre at the front. The flag may form a distinctive feature of the unveiling of a statue, monument, or plaque, but should never be used as the covering for the object. As a mark of respect to the flag, it should never be dipped to a person or thing, as opposed to regimental colours, organisational or institutional flags, which may be dipped as a mark of honour. During the ceremony of hoisting or lowering the flag, or when the flag is passing in a parade or in a review, all persons present should face the flag and stand at attention. Those present in uniform should render the appropriate salute. When the flag is in a moving column, persons present will stand at attention or salute as the flag passes them. A dignitary may take the salute without a head dress. The flag salutation should be followed by the playing of the national anthem.\nThe privilege of flying the national flag on vehicles is restricted to the President, the Vice-President or the Prime Minister, Governors and Lieutenant Governors of states, Chief Ministers, Union Ministers, members of the Parliament of India and state legislatures of the Indian states (Vidhan Sabha and Vidhan Parishad), judges of the Supreme Court of India and High Courts, and flag officers of the Army, Navy and Air Force. The flag has to be flown from a staff affixed firmly either on the middle front or to the front right side of the car. When a foreign dignitary travels in a car provided by government, the flag should be flown on the right side of the car while the flag of the foreign country should be flown on the left side.\n\nThe flag should be flown on the aircraft carrying the President, the Vice-President or the Prime Minister on a visit to a foreign country. Alongside the National Flag, the flag of the country visited should also be flown; however, when the aircraft lands in countries en route, the national flags of the respective countries would be flown instead. When carrying the president within India, aircraft display the flag on the side the president embarks or disembarks; the flag is similarly flown on trains, but only when the train is stationary or approaching a railway station.\n\nWhen the Indian flag is flown on Indian territory along with other national flags, the general rule is that the Indian flag should be the starting point of all flags. When flags are placed in a straight line, the rightmost flag (leftmost to the observer facing the flag) is the Indian flag, followed by other national flags in alphabetical order. When placed in a circle, the Indian flag is the first point and is followed by other flags alphabetically. In such placement, all other flags should be of approximately the same size with no other flag being larger than the Indian flag. Each national flag should also be flown from its own pole and no flag should be placed higher than another. In addition to being the first flag, the Indian flag may also be placed within the row or circle alphabetically. When placed on crossed poles, the Indian flag should be in front of the other flag, and to the right (observer's left) of the other flag. The only exception to the preceding rule is when it is flown along with the flag of the United Nations, which may be placed to the right of the Indian flag.\n\nWhen the Indian flag is displayed with non-national flags, including corporate flags and advertising banners, the rules state that if the flags are on separate staffs, the flag of India should be in the middle, or the furthest left from the viewpoint of the onlookers, or at least one flag's breadth higher than the other flags in the group. Its flagpole must be in front of the other poles in the group, but if they are on the same staff, it must be the uppermost flag. If the flag is carried in procession with other flags, it must be at the head of the marching procession, or if carried with a row of flags in line abreast, it must be carried to the marching right of the procession.\n\nThe flag should be flown at half-mast as a sign of mourning. The decision to do so lies with the President of India, who also decides the period of such mourning. When the flag is to be flown at half mast, it must first be raised to the top of the mast and then slowly lowered. Only the Indian flag is flown half mast; all other flags remain at normal height.\n\nThe flag is flown half-mast nationwide on the death of the president, Vice-president or prime minister. It is flown half-mast in New Delhi and the state of origin for the Speaker of the Lok Sabha, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and Union Ministers. On deaths of Governors, Lt. Governors and Chief Ministers, the flag is flown at half-mast in the respective states and union territories.\n\nThe Indian flag cannot be flown at half-mast on Republic Day (26 January), Independence day (15 August), Gandhi Jayanti (2 October), National Week (6–13 April) or state formation anniversaries, except over buildings housing the body of the deceased dignitary. However, even in such cases, the flag must be raised to full-mast when the body is moved from the building.\n\nObservances of State mourning on the death of foreign dignitaries are governed by special instructions issued from the Ministry of Home Affairs in individual cases. However, in the event of death of either the Head of the State or Head of the Government of a foreign country, the Indian Mission accredited to that country may fly the national flag at half-mast.\n\nOn occasions of state, military, central para-military forces funerals, the flag shall be draped over the bier or coffin with the saffron towards the head of the bier or coffin. The flag should not be lowered into the grave or burnt in the pyre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1658436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1658436", "title": "God, the Devil and Bob", "text": "God, the Devil and Bob\n\nGod, the Devil and Bob is an animated sitcom which premiered on NBC on March 9, 2000 and ended on March 28, 2000, leaving nine episodes unaired. It was created by Matthew Carlson. The entire series was released on Region 1 DVD in the United States on January 4, 2005. Reruns of the series began airing on Cartoon Network's late night programming block, Adult Swim, on January 1, 2011 with the network airing the nine remaining episodes of the series from January 8 to March 26, 2011.\n\nThirteen episodes were made, but only four were broadcast in the United States before the series was canceled due to a combination of low ratings and pressure from religious activists.\n\nThe show, however, was well received in places such as the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Latin America (including Brazil), where BBC Two, RTÉ, and Fox, respectively, aired the entire series. It was once broadcast on the now-defunct Philippine channel Maxxx.\n\nThe series was based on God (voiced by James Garner) and the Devil (voiced by Alan Cumming) making a bet over the fate of the world. God wants to wipe humanity off the face of the planet and start over, but he realizes that he's \"not that kind of God.\" The Devil gets to choose one person, and if that person does not prove they have made the world a better place, God will destroy the world. The Devil chooses Bob Allman (voiced by French Stewart), a beer-drinking, porno-watching auto plant worker from the suburbs of Detroit who, when asked to save humanity from complete annihilation, asks \"What's in it for me?\" After saving humanity in the pilot episode, the series revolves around Bob being God's \"Go-To Guy\" whenever he gets a great idea to help out the world.\n\n\n20th Century Fox has released the complete series on DVD in Region 1. The 2-disc set features an extensive array of special features including commentaries, interviews and audition tapes.\n\n"}
{"id": "55176286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55176286", "title": "Hero of Turkmenistan", "text": "Hero of Turkmenistan\n\nThe title Hero of Turkmenistan is a state award of Turkmenistan. It was first awarded in 1996 and was awarded for service to the implementation of domestic and foreign policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "7469843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7469843", "title": "Incest in popular culture", "text": "Incest in popular culture\n\nIncest is a popular topic in English erotic fiction; there are entire collections and websites devoted solely to incest, and there exists an entire genre of pornographic pulp fiction known as \"incest novels\". Incest is sometimes mentioned or described in mainstream, non-erotic fiction. Connotations can be negative, positive, or neutral.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4978773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4978773", "title": "International Pool Tour", "text": "International Pool Tour\n\nThe International Pool Tour was a professional sports tour created in 2005 by Kevin Trudeau and hosted by Rebecca Grant. It aimed to elevate pool (pocket billiards) to the level of other modern sports. Closely modeled on the PGA Tour, the IPT offered the largest prize funds in pool history in its first year. The tour attracted the top pool players in the world. It differed from the many nine-ball tournaments, as all IPT events were eight-ball matches. The company was based in Hinsdale, Illinois.\n\nMany pool enthusiasts were initially skeptical, but the first event was successful, and at the time was the biggest tournament in billiards history. However, by the end of 2006, the tour was in serious financial trouble, and was forced to stop staging major tournaments.\n\n\nThe IPT was not in a financial position to continue hosting large world-class events, so they shifted their strategy to live streaming matches that pitted the best players against each other. These professionally produced events started around the same time as the final payment installment was sent to the players from the World Open. The IPT cited these matches as promotional and their intent was to promote the sport and build up web traffic once again in order to deploy a new strategy.\n\n\nIn the era of pool champions Willie Mosconi and Irving Crane, the standard dress code for professional pool saw players dressed in tuxedos when competing, but beginning in the 1970s, the dress code had relaxed in competition with contenders wearing sneakers, baseball caps, T-shirts, and blue jeans. Trudeau re-established a dress code for the IPT members and required all IPT members and competitors to adhere to it, to project a better image for pool. All male pool players were required to wear suits, long-sleeved shirts, and leather shoes.\n\nIn the events Trudeau refused to follow some of the rules normally required by pool's governing bodies, in particular the policy that all prize money be held in escrow. Despite this, both the Women's Professional Billiards Association and the U.S. Professional Pool Players Association allowed their players to join the IPT.\n\nIn September 2006, just prior to the IPT World Open Eight-ball Championship in Reno, Nevada, Kevin Trudeau announced that the IPT had entered into an agreement to be acquired by Ho Interactive, a new company started by casino owner billionaire Stanley Ho, a deal which failed. Two new sponsors were also announced offsetting the bad news that the IPT championship scheduled for October 2006 in London, England, had been cancelled.\n\nThe initial three events in 2005 and early 2006 were successful, but at the fourth, the IPT World Open tournament in Reno, Nevada, promoters announced that they did not have sufficient funds on hand to cover the purse. Winners were assured that they would receive their prizes in small installments, but most were never paid. The Reno fiasco marked the demise not only of IPT, but of professional pool competitions in general. As one commentator put it, \"The pool hustler wasn’t murdered by any single suspect, but the last man holding the knife was Kevin Trudeau.\"\n"}
{"id": "4108384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4108384", "title": "Italian Cultural Institute, London", "text": "Italian Cultural Institute, London\n\nThe Italian Cultural Institute, London () is based at 39 Belgrave Square in Belgravia, London. The institute promotes Italian culture and organises events at its own premises including exhibitions, concerts and meetings. It also supports the learning of Italian language through the set-up of group lessons. It deals with many actvities elsewhere in UK. There are a library, an internal café and other facilities available for those who are involved in its activities. Various types of membership are available for individuals and organisations.\n\nThere are other Italian Cultural Institutes around the world in major cities (six in Europe, four in the United States, three in Canada, five in Central/South America and two in Australia).\n\n"}
{"id": "46728550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46728550", "title": "John H. Arnold (historian)", "text": "John H. Arnold (historian)\n\nJohn Hugh Arnold (born 1969) is a British historian. Since 2016, he has been the Professor of Medieval History at the University of Cambridge. He previously worked at Birkbeck College, University of London, where he specialised in the study of medieval religious culture. He has also written widely on historiography and why history matters.\n\nBorn 28 November 1969, Arnold received his Bachelor of Arts degree in history and his Doctor of Philosophy degree in medieval studies from the University of York. He was professor of medieval history at Birkbeck College, University of London, from 2008. He joined the college as a lecturer in 2001. Before that he was a lecturer at the University of East Anglia. He is a member of the Social History Society and the Medieval Academy of America.\n\nArnold specialises in the study of medieval religious culture, saying that while he has never been a believer in any religion, \"belief\" has always fascinated him. In his work he asks \"Why do people believe the things they believe? What does 'believing' really mean in practice?\" Arnold has also written widely about historiography. In 2008 he wrote a policy paper, \"Why history matters - and why medieval history also matters\", for History & Policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37791917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37791917", "title": "Journal of Philosophy of Education", "text": "Journal of Philosophy of Education\n\nThe Journal of Philosophy of Education is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain. The journal was established in 1967. The journal publishes articles relating to education or educational practice from a philosophical point of view. Specific topics addressed in previous articles include politics, aesthetics, epistemology, curriculum and ethics, and historical aspects of the foregoing. \n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2011 impact factor of 0.371, ranking it 17th out of 31 journals in the category \"History of Social Sciences\" and 159th out of 206 in the category \"Education & Educational Research\".\n"}
{"id": "54455228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54455228", "title": "Ladybird of Szeged", "text": "Ladybird of Szeged\n\nThe Ladybird of Szeged or Ladybug of Szeged (Hungarian: \"Szegedi Katicabogár\" or just \"Szegedi Katica\") is an early robot which was developed in Hungary at the Cybernetics Laboratory of the University of Szeged (SZTE) between 1956 and 1957. The roughly hemispherical machine has a red shell with black dots, resembling a ladybird (or ladybug), hence its name. The Ladybird is one of the first Hungarian robots, and the first robotic animal ever constructed. It was designed and built by Dr. Dániel Muszka, with the main intention of emulating Pavlovian conditional reflexes in a machine.\n\nThe original Ladybird is still in working condition (although its original papier-mâché shell has been replaced due to deterioration), and can be found in the Informatics History Exhibition (ITK) in Szeged. The exhibition have chosen the machine to be its symbolic mascot. Muszka built two working replicas of the robot in the 2000s, one is in the ITK as well, the other is in the Technical Study Stores of the Hungarian Technical and Transportation Museum (MMKM) in Budapest. The Ladybird is considered an early milestone in Hungarian cybernetics and information technology.\n\nMuszka was inspired to build a demonstration robot by the idea of psychologist József Király.\n\nThe machine is variously referred to as \"Szegedi Katicabogár\" (ladybird/ladybug of Szeged), \"Szegedi Katica\" (using a shorter word for ladybird) or just \"Katica\" (ladybird) in Hungarian sources, with various capitalizations. English-language sources tend to use either Ladybird (UK) or Ladybug (US), depending on the variety of English used. Nonetheless all of these names refer to the original robot, not to any of the replicas.\n\nThe Ladybird is a roughly hemispherical robot which is wide, tall and long. It has a metal baseplate on which the electronics lie, which are enclosed by a red shell with black spots. This shell was originally varnished papier-mâché, but due to deterioration, the Ladybird now has a plastic shell mimicking the original one. The black spots themselves are buttons, and the top of the shell also has a small sliding vane. The robot has two red \"eyes\" (which can light up but can't see), three photosensors (which can detect light) and a mechanical sensor in the front to detect collisions with obstacles. It also contains an electromechanical buzzer to give audible feedback. Due to the technical difficulties of the time, Muszka couldn't include a battery, and so the Ladybird gets the required electricity (220 V alternating current from the mains) using an umbilical power cable. The machine has three rubber wheels, two fixed wheels in front which are driven by automobile windscreen wiper motors, and a free-rotating caster wheel at the back. By design, the Ladybird is incapable of going in reverse.\n\nThe Ladybird emulates basic phototaxis as well as conditional and unconditional reflexes. Phototaxis is exhibited by the machine's rudimentary ability to \"follow\" a sufficiently strong light source which shines into its photosensors; the centre sensor turns on both motors to propel the robot forward, the left- and right-side sensors turn on only the opposite side's motor to effectively make the machine turn towards the light source. When turning or moving forward, the robot's \"eyes\" are fully alight, when it is stationary, they are just dimly lit.\n\nConditional reflexes are emulated by the Ladybird's ability to associate the \"go\" signal represented by the light source with a certain sound frequency (usually emitted by a nearby flute). If the front photosensor and the microphone both receives the right stimuli for a certain amount of time (the \"eyes\" are flashing during this time), the robot gains the ability to move forward just by \"hearing\" the right frequency of sound. This \"memory\" fades away with time (as capacitors drain out), or it can be erased by pressing any of the buttons (the black dots) on the shell.\n\nUnconditional reflexes are emulated by the Ladybird's \"refusal\" to move in response to either light or sound stimuli when it \"gets hurt\", when any of its black dots are pressed. In this case it also \"cries\" using its buzzer, its \"eyes\" go fully dark, and it \"forgets\" about the conditioning. It can only be \"soothed\" and activated again by being \"petted\", by slightly pressing the sliding vane on top of the shell.\n\nThe Ladybird also \"cries\" and stops its motors when it hits an obstacle, such as the side walls of its demonstration pen.\n\nThe University of Szeged's Java simulation of the Ladybird accurately mirrors the behaviour of the actual machine, except that the simulated robot can go in reverse.\n\nIn the 1960s the Ladybird was featured multiple times on MTV (\"Magyar Televízió\"), then the only television channel in the People's Republic of Hungary.\n\nIn December 2011, the Science Museum of London hosted one of the replicas of the Ladybird in its 4-day \"Robotville Festival\" exhibition (also known as the \"Robotville\" exhibition), alongside with modern robots of various kinds. The replica was presented by Muszka and his assistant, Csaba Gyuricza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26829171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26829171", "title": "List of hairstyles", "text": "List of hairstyles\n\nThis is a non-exhaustive list of hairstyles, excluding facial hairstyles.\n\n"}
{"id": "40580580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40580580", "title": "List of years in Japanese television", "text": "List of years in Japanese television\n\nThis is a list of years in Japanese television.\n\n"}
{"id": "49515842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49515842", "title": "Mary Morton Kehew", "text": "Mary Morton Kehew\n\nMary Morton Kehew (September 8, 1859 – February 13, 1918) was an American labor and social reformer. She was a president of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, a trustee of Simmons College, and the first president of the National Women's Trade Union League. She was also active in the women's suffrage movement, and on behalf of the blind.\n\nKehew was born Mary Morton Kimball in Boston, Massachusetts, on September 8, 1859. She was the fourth of eight children of Moses Day Kimball, a banker, and Susan Tillinghast Kimball (née Morton). Her maternal grandfather was former Massachusetts governor Marcus Morton. She was privately educated in Boston and in Europe. On January 8, 1880, she married William Brown Kehew, a wealthy oil merchant. The couple had no children.\n\nLike many Boston Brahmin women, Kehew spent much of her time volunteering. Rather than focusing on charity work, however, she used her social position and political connections on behalf of working class women. Quiet and self-effacing, she preferred to work behind the scenes, lobbying legislators and soliciting donations from her wealthy friends.\n\nIn 1886, Kehew joined the Women's Educational and Industrial Union (WEIU), a cross-class organization dedicated to improving working conditions for women. She served as WEIU president from 1892 to 1913 and as chairman of its board of government from 1914 to 1918. Under her leadership, the WEIU was transformed from a charity group to one focused on educating and organizing female workers. It provided legal advice, counseling, educational classes, and vocational training. Simmons College took on some of the WEIU's vocational training when it was founded in 1902; Kehew was on the college's first board of trustees. In 1905 she established the WEIU's research department, which conducted statistical studies on the lives of working women. This research was used to support legislative proposals pertaining to moneylending, pensions, sanitation, and the minimum wage, and eventually led to the creation of the Massachusetts Department of Labor and Industry.\n\nIn 1894, with Mary Kenney O'Sullivan, Kehew co-founded the Union for Industrial Progress, an auxiliary of the WEIU focused on trade unionism for women. Between 1896 and 1901, the group organized unions to defend the interests of laundry workers, bookbinders, and workers in the tobacco and garment industries.\n\nIn 1903 she became the first president of the National Women's Trade Union League, a group that supported the organization of labor unions and strove to eliminate sweatshop conditions for women.\n\nShe served on several legislative committees, investigating working conditions in Massachusetts, and provided financial and other support for various social reform organizations, including the Milk and Baby Hygiene Association, the Tyler Street Day Nursery, and Denison House. She was active in the women's suffrage movement, worked on behalf of the blind, and served on the executive committee of the Massachusetts Child Labor Commission.\n\nShe died of nephritis on February 13, 1918, at her home at 29 Chestnut Street in Boston. That April, the WEIU held a memorial service for her at Huntington Hall. Speakers included her friend and fellow reformer, Emily Greene Balch, who remembered her as \"the never failing fairy godmother\" of Boston social and labor reform, and the director of the Ohio State School for the Blind, who credited her with organizing \"the first work to be conducted with the adult blind 15 years ago in her own office.\" John F. Tobin, a union leader, described her as a friend of the workingman whose \"sympathies were always on the right side.\"\n\nKehew is remembered on the Boston Women's Heritage Trail in connection with the WEIU. She is also included in \"Nine Notable Women\", a mural painted by Ellen Lanyon in 1980. The nine notable women are Anne Hutchinson, Phillis Wheatley, Sister Ann Alexis, Lucy Stone, Mary Baker Eddy, Ellen S. Richards, Mary Morton Kehew, Anne Sullivan, and Melnea Cass.\n\n"}
{"id": "7143285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7143285", "title": "Miriam Cooke", "text": "Miriam Cooke\n\nMiriam Cooke is an American academic in Middle Eastern and Arab world studies. She focuses on modern Arabic literature and critical reassessment of women's roles in the public sphere. She was educated in the United Kingdom, and is co-editor of the \"Journal of Middle East Women's Studies\".\n\nShe is a professor of modern Arabic literature and culture at Duke University. She received her doctorate from the St Antony's College, Oxford in 1980. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11035881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11035881", "title": "Miyagegashi", "text": "Miyagegashi\n\nMiyagegashi, also , refers to a sweet made with the purpose of selling it as a souvenir. As with most other Japanese souvenirs (omiyage), the typical miyagegashi is a regional specialty (meibutsu), and cannot be bought outside its specific geographic area. The making and selling of omiyagegashi is an important part of Japan's omiyage (souvenir) industry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19522", "title": "Monotheism", "text": "Monotheism\n\nMonotheism has been defined as the belief in the existence of only one god that created the world, is all-powerful and intervenes in the world. A broader definition of monotheism is the belief in one god. A distinction may be made between exclusive monotheism, and both inclusive monotheism and pluriform (panentheistic) monotheism which, while recognising various distinct gods, postulate some underlying unity.\n\nMonotheism is distinguished from henotheism, a religious system in which the believer worships one god without denying that others may worship different gods with equal validity, and monolatrism, the recognition of the existence of many gods but with the consistent worship of only one deity. The term \"monolatry\" was perhaps first used by Julius Wellhausen.\n\nThe broader definition of monotheism characterizes the traditions of Bábism, the Bahá'í Faith, Balinese Hinduism, Cao Dai (Caodaiism), Cheondoism (Cheondogyo), Christianity, Deism, Eckankar, Hindu sects such as Shaivism and Vaishnavism, Islam, Judaism, Mandaeism, Rastafari, Seicho no Ie, Sikhism, Tengrism (Tangrism), Tenrikyo (Tenriism), Yazidism, and Zoroastrianism, and elements of pre-monotheistic thought are found in early religions such as Atenism, ancient Chinese religion, and .\n\nThe word \"monotheism\" comes from the Greek (\"monos\") meaning \"single\" and (\"theos\") meaning \"god\". The English term was first used by Henry More (1614–1687).\n\nQuasi-monotheistic claims of the existence of a universal deity date to the Late Bronze Age, with Akhenaten's \"Great Hymn to the Aten\". A possible inclination towards monotheism emerged during the Vedic period in Iron-Age South Asia. The Rigveda exhibits notions of monism of the Brahman, particularly in the comparatively late tenth book, which is dated to the early Iron Age, e.g. in the Nasadiya sukta. \n\nSince the sixth century BCE, Zoroastrians have believed in the supremacy of one God above all: Ahura Mazda as the \"Maker of All\" and the first being before all others. Nonetheless, Zoroastrianism was not strictly monotheistic because it venerated other \"yazatas\" alongside Ahura Mazda. Ancient Hindu theology, meanwhile, was monist, but was not strictly monotheistic in worship because it still maintained the existence of many gods, who were envisioned as aspects of one supreme God, Brahman. Numerous ancient Greek philosophers, including Xenophanes of Colophon and Antisthenes believed in a similar polytheistic monism that came close to monotheism, but fell short. Judaism was the first religion to conceive the notion of a personal monotheistic God within a monist context. The concept of ethical monotheism, which holds that morality stems from God alone and that its laws are unchanging, first occurred in Judaism, but is now a core tenet of most modern monotheistic religions, including Zoroastrianism, Christianity, Islam, Sikhism, and Bahá'í Faith.\n\nAccording to Jewish, Christian and Islamic tradition, monotheism was the original religion of humanity; this original religion is sometimes referred to as \"the Adamic religion\", or, in the terms of Andrew Lang, the \"Urreligion\". Scholars of religion largely abandoned that view in the 19th century in favour of an evolutionary progression from animism via polytheism to monotheism, but by 1974 this theory was less widely held, and a modified view similar to Lang's became more prominent. Austrian anthropologist Wilhelm Schmidt had postulated an \"Urmonotheismus\", \"original\" or \"primitive monotheism\" in the 1910s. It was objected that Judaism, Christianity, and Islam had grown up in opposition to polytheism as had Greek philosophical monotheism. More recently, Karen Armstrong and other authors have returned to the idea of an evolutionary progression beginning with animism, which developed into polytheism, which developed into henotheism, which developed into monolatry, which developed into true monotheism.\n\nWhile all adherents of the Abrahamic religions consider themselves to be monotheists, some in Judaism do not consider Christianity to be a pure form of monotheism (due to The Christian doctrine of the Trinity), classifying it as Shituf. Islam likewise does not recognize modern-day Christianity as monotheistic, primarily due to the Christian doctrine of Trinity, which Islam argues was not a part of the original monotheistic Christianity as preached by Jesus.\nChristians, on the other hand, argue that the doctrine of the Trinity is a valid expression of monotheism, citing that the Trinity does not consist of three separate deities, but rather the three persons, who exist consubstantially (as one substance) within a single Godhead.\n\nJudaism is one of the oldest monotheistic religions in the world, although some scholars have argued that the earliest Israelites (pre-7th century BCE) were monolatristic rather than monotheistic. God in later Judaism was strictly monotheistic, an absolute one, indivisible, and incomparable being who is the ultimate cause of all existence. The Babylonian Talmud references other, \"foreign gods\" as non-existent entities to whom humans mistakenly ascribe reality and power. One of the best-known statements of Rabbinical Judaism on monotheism is the Second of Maimonides' 13 Principles of faith:\nSome in Judaism and Islam reject the Christian idea of monotheism. Judaism uses the term \"shituf\" to refer to the worship of God in a manner which Judaism deems to be neither purely monotheistic (though still permissible for non-Jews) nor polytheistic (which would be prohibited).\n\nDuring the 8th century BCE, the worship of YHWH in Israel was in competition with many other cults, described by the Yahwist faction collectively as Baals. The oldest books of the Hebrew Bible reflect this competition, as in the books of Hosea and Nahum, whose authors lament the \"apostasy\" of the people of Israel, threatening them with the wrath of God if they do not give up their polytheistic cults.\n\nAncient Israelite religion was originally polytheistic; the Israelites worshipped many deities, including El, Baal, Asherah, and Astarte. YHWH was originally the national god of the Kingdom of Israel and the Kingdom of Judah. As time progressed, the henotheistic cult of Yahweh grew increasingly militant in its opposition to the worship of other gods. Later, the reforms of King Josiah imposed a form of strict monolatrism. After the fall of Judah to Babylon, a small circle of priests and scribes gathered around the exiled royal court, where they first developed the concept of YHWH as the sole God of the world.\n\n\"Shema Yisrael\" (\"Hear, [O] Israel\") are the first two words of a section of the Torah, and is the title of a prayer that serves as a centerpiece of the morning and evening Jewish prayer services. The first verse encapsulates the monotheistic essence of Judaism: \"Hear, O Israel: the our God, the is one\" (), found in , sometimes alternatively translated as \"The is our God, the alone\". Observant Jews consider the Shema to be the most important part of the prayer service in Judaism, and its twice-daily recitation as a \"mitzvah\" (religious commandment). It is traditional for Jews to say the Shema as their last words, and for parents to teach their children to say it before they go to sleep at night.\n\nAmong early Christians there was considerable debate over the nature of the Godhead, with some denying the incarnation but not the deity of Jesus (Docetism) and others later calling for an Arian conception of God. Despite at least one earlier local synod rejecting the claim of Arius, this Christological issue was to be one of the items addressed at the First Council of Nicaea.\n\nThe First Council of Nicaea, held in Nicaea (in present-day Turkey), convoked by the Roman Emperor Constantine I in 325, was the first ecumenical council of bishops of the Roman Empire, and most significantly resulted in the first uniform Christian doctrine, called the Nicene Creed. With the creation of the creed, a precedent was established for subsequent general ecumenical councils of bishops (synods) to create statements of belief and canons of doctrinal orthodoxy— the intent being to define a common creed for the Church and address heretical ideas.\n\nOne purpose of the council was to resolve disagreements in Alexandria over the nature of Jesus in relationship to the Father; in particular, whether Jesus was of the same substance as God the Father or merely of similar substance. All but two bishops took the first position; while Arius' argument failed.\n\nChristian orthodox traditions (Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Roman Catholic, and most Protestants) follow this decision, which was reaffirmed in 381 at the First Council of Constantinople and reached its full development through the work of the Cappadocian Fathers. They consider God to be a triune entity, called the Trinity, comprising three \"persons\", God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. These three are described as being \"of the same substance\" ().\n\nChristians overwhelmingly assert that monotheism is central to the Christian faith, as the Nicene Creed (and others), which gives the orthodox Christian definition of the Trinity, begins: \"I believe in one God\". From earlier than the times of the Nicene Creed, 325 CE, various Christian figures advocated the triune mystery-nature of God as a normative profession of faith. According to Roger E. Olson and Christopher Hall, through prayer, meditation, study and practice, the Christian community concluded \"that God must exist as both a unity and trinity\", codifying this in ecumenical council at the end of the 4th century.\n\nMost modern Christians believe the Godhead is triune, meaning that the three persons of the Trinity are in one union in which each person is also wholly God. They also hold to the doctrine of a man-god Christ Jesus as God incarnate. These Christians also do not believe that one of the three divine figures is God alone and the other two are not but that all three are mysteriously God and one. Other Christian religions, including Unitarian Universalism, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormonism and others, do not share those views on the Trinity.\n\nSome Christian faiths, such as Mormonism, argue that the Godhead is in fact three separate individuals which include God the Father, His Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost. Each individual having a distinct purpose in the grand existence of human kind. Furthermore, Mormons believe that before the Council of Nicaea, the predominant belief among many early Christians was that the Godhead was three separate individuals. In support of this view, they cite early Christian examples of belief in subordinationism.\n\nUnitarianism is a theological movement, named for its understanding of God as one person, in direct contrast to Trinitarianism.\n\nIn Islam, God (Allāh) is all-powerful and all-knowing, the creator, sustainer, ordainer and judge of the universe. God in Islam is strictly singular (\"tawhid\") unique (\"wahid\") and inherently One (\"ahad\"), all-merciful and omnipotent. Allāh exists without place and the Qur'an states that \"No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision. God is above all comprehension, yet is acquainted with all things\" (Qur'an 6:103) Allāh is the only God and the same God worshiped in Christianity and Judaism. ().\n\nIslam emerged in the 7th century CE in the context of both Christianity and Judaism, with some thematic elements similar to Gnosticism. Islamic belief states that Muhammad did not bring a new religion from God, but is rather the same religion as practiced by Abraham, Moses, David, Jesus and all the other prophets of God. The assertion of Islam is that the message of God had been corrupted, distorted or lost over time and the Quran was sent to Muhammad in order to correct the lost message of the Torah, New Testament and prior scriptures from God.\n\nThe Qur'an asserts the existence of a single and absolute truth that transcends the world; a unique and indivisible being who is independent of the creation. The Qur'an rejects binary modes of thinking such as the idea of a duality of God by arguing that both good and evil generate from God's creative act. God is a universal god rather than a local, tribal or parochial one; an absolute who integrates all affirmative values and brooks no evil. Ash'ari theology, which dominated Sunni Islam from the tenth to the nineteenth century, insists on ultimate divine transcendence and holds that divine unity is not accessible to human reason. Ash'arism teaches that human knowledge regarding it is limited to what was has been revealed through the prophets, and on such paradoxes as God's creation of evil, revelation has to accepted \"bila kayfa\" (without [asking] how).\n\n\"Tawhid\" constitutes the foremost article of the Muslim profession of faith, \"There is no god but God, Muhammad is the messenger of God. To attribute divinity to a created entity is the only unpardonable sin mentioned in the Qur'an. The entirety of the Islamic teaching rests on the principle of \"tawhid\".\n\nAs they traditionally profess a concept of monotheism with a singular person as God, Judaism and Islam reject the Christian idea of monotheism. Judaism uses the term Shituf to refer to non-monotheistic ways of worshiping God. Though Muslims venerate Jesus (Isa in Arabic) as a prophet, they do not accept the doctrine that he was a begotten son of God.\n\nAccording to the Quran, the Sabians were a monotheistic religious group. Some Hadiths account them as converts to Islam. However this interpretation may be related to the fact that Quraysh polytheists used to describe anyone who converted to Islam with the word \"Saba\" () which may either mean that this term was used for anyone who changed his religion or that they identified the message of Muhammed as a \"Sabian belief\". The former linguistic explanation (i.e. \"saba\" = \"changed his religion\") is the one adopted by most Muslim scholars.\n\nSabians are often identified with Mandaeism, a small monotheistic community which lives today in Iraq and call themselves \"Yahyawiya\" (). Muslim scholars traditionally viewed them as followers of the prophets Noah and \"Yahya\" (i.e. John the Baptist).\n\nGod in the Bahá'í Faith is taught to be a personal god, too great for humans to fully comprehend. Human primitive understanding of God is achieved through his revelations via his divine intermediary Manifestations. In the Bahá'í faith, such Christian doctrines as the Trinity are seen as compromising the Bahá'í view that God is single and has no equal.\nAnd the very existence of the Bahá'í Faith is a challenge to the Islamic doctrine of the finality of Muhammad's revelation.\nGod in the Bahá'í Faith communicates to humanity through divine intermediaries, known as Manifestations of God. These Manifestations establish religion in the world. It is through these divine intermediaries that humans can approach God, and through them God brings divine revelation and law.\n\nThe Oneness of God is one of the core teachings of the Bahá'í Faith. The obligatory prayers in the Bahá'í Faith involve explicit monotheistic testimony. God is the imperishable, uncreated being who is the source of all existence. He is described as \"a personal God, unknowable, inaccessible, the source of all Revelation, eternal, omniscient, omnipresent and almighty\". Although transcendent and inaccessible directly, his image is reflected in his creation. The purpose of creation is for the created to have the capacity to know and love its creator. God communicates his will and purpose to humanity through intermediaries, known as Manifestations of God, who are the prophets and messengers that have founded religions from prehistoric times up to the present day.\n\nAmenhotep IV initially introduced Atenism in Year 5 of his reign (1348/1346 BCE) during the 18th dynasty of the New Kingdom. He raised Aten, once a relatively obscure Egyptian Solar deity representing the disk of the sun, to the status of Supreme God in the Egyptian pantheon. To emphasise the change, Aten's name was written in the cartouche form normally reserved for Pharaohs, an innovation of Atenism. This religious reformation appears to coincide with the proclamation of a Sed festival, a sort of royal jubilee intended to reinforce the Pharaoh's divine powers of kingship. Traditionally held in the thirtieth year of the Pharaoh's reign, this possibly was a festival in honour of Amenhotep III, who some Egyptologists think had a coregency with his son Amenhotep IV of two to twelve years.\n\nYear 5 is believed to mark the beginning of Amenhotep IV's construction of a new capital, Akhetaten (\"Horizon of the Aten\"), at the site known today as Amarna. Evidence of this appears on three of the boundary stelae used to mark the boundaries of this new capital. At this time, Amenhotep IV officially changed his name to Akhenaten (\"Agreeable to Aten\") as evidence of his new worship. The date given for the event has been estimated to fall around January 2 of that year. In Year 7 of his reign (1346/1344 BCE), the capital was moved from Thebes to Akhetaten (near modern Amarna), though construction of the city seems to have continued for two more years. In shifting his court from the traditional ceremonial centres Akhenaten was signalling a dramatic transformation in the focus of religious and political power.\n\nThe move separated the Pharaoh and his court from the influence of the priesthood and from the traditional centres of worship, but his decree had deeper religious significance too—taken in conjunction with his name change, it is possible that the move to Amarna was also meant as a signal of Akhenaten's symbolic death and rebirth. It may also have coincided with the death of his father and the end of the coregency. In addition to constructing a new capital in honor of Aten, Akhenaten also oversaw the construction of some of the most massive temple complexes in ancient Egypt, including one at Karnak and one at Thebes, close to the old temple of Amun.\n\nIn Year 9 (1344/1342 BCE), Akhenaten declared a more radical version of his new religion, declaring Aten not merely the supreme god of the Egyptian pantheon, but the only God of Egypt, with himself as the sole intermediary between the Aten and the Egyptian people. Key features of Atenism included a ban on idols and other images of the Aten, with the exception of a rayed solar disc, in which the rays (commonly depicted ending in hands) appear to represent the unseen spirit of Aten. Aten was addressed by Akhenaten in prayers, such as the \"Great Hymn to the Aten\": \"O Sole God beside whom there is none\".\n\nThe details of Atenist theology are still unclear. The exclusion of all but one god and the prohibition of idols was a radical departure from Egyptian tradition, but most scholars see Akhenaten as a practitioner of monolatry rather than monotheism, as he did not actively deny the existence of other gods; he simply refrained from worshiping any but Aten. It is known that Atenism did not solely attribute divinity to the Aten. Akhenaten continued the cult of the Pharaoh, proclaiming himself the son of Aten and encouraging the Egyptian people to worship him. The Egyptian people were to worship Akhenaten; only Akhenaten and Nefertiti could worship Aten directly.\n\nUnder Akhenaten's successors, Egypt reverted to its traditional religion, and Akhenaten himself came to be reviled as a heretic.\n\nThe orthodox faith system held by most dynasties of China since at least the Shang Dynasty (1766 BCE) until the modern period centered on the worship of \"Shangdi\" (literally \"Above Sovereign\", generally translated as \"God\") or Heaven as an omnipotent force. This faith system pre-dated the development of Confucianism and Taoism and the introduction of Buddhism and Christianity. It has features of monotheism in that Heaven is seen as an omnipotent entity, a noncorporeal force with a personality transcending the world. From the writings of Confucius in the \"Analects\", it is known Confucius believed that Heaven cannot be deceived, Heaven guides people's lives and maintains a personal relationship with them, and that Heaven gives tasks for people to fulfill in order to teach them of virtues and morality. However, this faith system was not truly monotheistic since other lesser gods and spirits, which varied with locality, were also worshiped along with \"Shangdi\". Still, later variants such as Mohism (470 BCE–c.391 BCE) approached true monotheism, teaching that the function of lesser gods and ancestral spirits is merely to carry out the will of \"Shangdi\", akin to the angels in Abrahamic religions which in turn counts as only one god. In Mozi's \"Will of Heaven\" (天志), he writes:\n\nWorship of \"Shangdi\" and Heaven in ancient China includes the erection of shrines, the last and greatest being the Temple of Heaven in Beijing, and the offering of prayers. The ruler of China in every Chinese dynasty would perform annual sacrificial rituals to \"Shangdi\", usually by slaughtering a completely healthy bull as sacrifice. Although its popularity gradually diminished after the advent of Taoism and Buddhism, among other religions, its concepts remained in use throughout the pre-modern period and have been incorporated in later religions in China, including terminology used by early Christians in China. Despite the rising of non-theistic and pantheistic spirituality contributed by Taoism and Buddhism, Shangdi was still praised up until the end of the Qing Dynasty as the last ruler of the Qing declared himself son of heaven.\n\nThe Himba people of Namibia practice a form of monotheistic panentheism, and worship the god Mukuru. The deceased ancestors of the Himba and Herero are subservient to him, acting as intermediaries.\n\nThe Igbo people practice a form of monotheism called Odinani. Odinani has monotheistic and panentheistic attributes, having a single God as the source of all things. Although a pantheon of spirits exists, these are lesser spirits prevalent in Odinani expressly serving as elements of Chineke (or Chukwu), the supreme being or high god.\n\nWaaq is the name of a singular God in the traditional religion of many Cushitic people in the Horn of Africa, denoting an early monotheistic religion. However this religion was mostly replaced with the Abrahamic religions. Some (approximately 3%) of Oromo still follow this traditional monotheistic religion called Waaqeffannaa in Oromo.\n\nThe supreme god of the Proto-Indo-European religion was the god *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr \". A number of words derived from the name of this supreme deity are used in various Indo-European languages to denote a monotheistic God. Nonetheless, in spite of this, Proto-Indo-European religion itself was not monotheistic.\n\nIn western Eurasia, the ancient traditions of the Slavic religion contained elements of monotheism. In the sixth century AD, the Byzantine chronicler Procopius recorded that the Slavs \"acknowledge that one god, creator of lightning, is the only lord of all: to him do they sacrifice an ox and all sacrificial animals.\" The deity to whom Procopius is referring is the storm god Perún, whose name is derived from *\"Perkunos\", the Proto-Indo-European god of lightning. The ancient Slavs syncretized him with the Germanic god Thor and the Biblical prophet Elijah.\n\nAs an old religion, Hinduism inherits religious concepts spanning monotheism, polytheism, panentheism, pantheism, monism, and atheism among others; and its concept of God is complex and depends upon each individual and the tradition and philosophy followed.\n\nHindu views are broad and range from monism, through pantheism and panentheism (alternatively called monistic theism by some scholars) to monotheism and even atheism. Hinduism cannot be said to be purely polytheistic. Hindu religious leaders have repeatedly stressed that while God's forms are many and the ways to communicate with him are many, God is one. The \"puja\" of the \"murti\" is a way to communicate with the abstract one god (\"Brahman\") which creates, sustains and dissolves creation.\n\nRig Veda 1.164.46,\n\nTraditions of Gaudiya Vaishnavas, the Nimbarka Sampradaya and followers of Swaminarayan and Vallabha consider Krishna to be the source of all avatars, and the source of Vishnu himself, or to be the same as Narayana. As such, he is therefore regarded as \"Svayam Bhagavan\".\n\nWhen Krishna is recognized to be \"Svayam Bhagavan\", it can be understood that this is the belief of Gaudiya Vaishnavism, the Vallabha Sampradaya, and the Nimbarka Sampradaya, where Krishna is accepted to be the source of all other avatars, and the source of Vishnu himself. This belief is drawn primarily \"from the famous statement of the Bhagavatam\" (1.3.28). A viewpoint differing from this theological concept is the concept of Krishna as an \"avatar\" of Narayana or Vishnu. It should be however noted that although it is usual to speak of Vishnu as the source of the avataras, this is only one of the names of the God of Vaishnavism, who is also known as Narayana, Vasudeva and Krishna and behind each of those names there is a divine figure with attributed supremacy in Vaishnavism.\n\nThe Rig Veda discusses monotheistic thought, as do the Atharva Veda and Yajur Veda:\n\"Devas are always looking to the supreme abode of Vishnu\" (\"tad viṣṇoḥ paramaṁ padaṁ sadā paśyanti sṻrayaḥ\" Rig Veda 1.22.20)\n\n\"The One Truth, sages know by many names\" (Rig Veda 1.164.46)\n\n\"When at first the unborn sprung into being, He won His own dominion beyond which nothing higher has been in existence\" (Atharva Veda 10.7.31)\n\n\"There is none to compare with Him. There is no parallel to Him, whose glory, verily, is great.\" (Yajur Veda 32.3)\n\nThe number of auspicious qualities of God are countless, with the following six qualities (\"bhaga\") being the most important:\n\nIn the Shaivite tradition, the \"Shri Rudram\" (Sanskrit श्रि रुद्रम्), to which the Chamakam (चमकम्) is added by scriptural tradition, is a Hindu \"stotra\" dedicated to Rudra (an epithet of Shiva), taken from the Yajurveda (TS 4.5, 4.7). Shri Rudram is also known as \"Sri Rudraprasna\", \"\", and \"Rudradhyaya\". The text is important in Vedanta where Shiva is equated to the Universal supreme God. The hymn is an early example of enumerating the names of a deity, a tradition developed extensively in the sahasranama literature of Hinduism.\n\nThe Nyaya school of Hinduism has made several arguments regarding a monotheistic view. The Naiyanikas have given an argument that such a god can only be one. In the \"Nyaya Kusumanjali\", this is discussed against the proposition of the \"Mimamsa\" school that let us assume there were many demigods (\"devas\") and sages (\"rishis\") in the beginning, who wrote the Vedas and created the world. Nyaya says that:\n\n[If they assume such] omniscient beings, those endowed with the various superhuman faculties of assuming infinitesimal size, and so on, and capable of creating everything, then we reply that the \"law of parsimony\" bids us assume only one such, namely Him, the adorable Lord. There can be no confidence in a non-eternal and non-omniscient being, and hence it follows that according to the system which rejects God, the tradition of the Veda is simultaneously overthrown; there is no other way open.\n\nIn other words, Nyaya says that the polytheist would have to give elaborate proofs for the existence and origin of his several celestial spirits, none of which would be logical, and that it is more logical to assume one eternal, omniscient god.\n\nSikhi is a monotheistic and a revealed religion.\nGod in Sikhi is called \"Vāhigurū\", and is shapeless, timeless, and sightless: \"niraṅkār\", \"akaal\", and \"alakh\". God is present (\"sarav viāpak\") in all of creation. God must be seen from \"the inward eye\", or the \"heart\". Sikhi devotees must meditate to progress towards enlightenment, as its rigorous application permits the existence of communication between God and human beings.\n\nSikhism is a monotheistic faith that arose in northern India during the 16th and 17th centuries. Sikhs believe in one, timeless, omnipresent, supreme creator. The opening verse of the Guru Granth Sahib, known as the Mul Mantra, signifies this:\n\nThe word \"ੴ\" (\"Ik ōaṅkār\") has two components. The first is ੧, the digit \"1\" in Gurmukhi signifying the singularity of the creator. Together the word means: \"One Universal creator God\".\n\nIt is often said that the 1430 pages of the Guru Granth Sahib are all expansions on the Mul Mantra. Although the Sikhs have many names for God, some derived from Islam and Hinduism, they all refer to the same Supreme Being.\n\nThe Sikh holy scriptures refer to the One God who pervades the whole of space and is the creator of all beings in the universe. The following quotation from the Guru Granth Sahib highlights this point:\nHowever, there is a strong case for arguing that the Guru Granth Sahib teaches monism due to its non-dualistic tendencies:\nSikhs believe that God has been given many names, but they all refer to the One God, VāhiGurū. Sikhs believe that members of other religions such as Islam, Hinduism and Christianity all worship the same God, and the names Allah, Rahim, Karim, Hari, Raam and Paarbrahm are frequently mentioned in the Sikh holy scriptures. Although there is no set reference to God in Sikhism, the most commonly used Sikh reference to God is Akal Purakh (which means \"the true immortal\") or Waheguru, the Primal Being.\n\nZoroastrianism combines cosmogonic dualism and eschatological monotheism which makes it unique among the religions of the world. Zoroastrianism proclaims an evolution through time from dualism to monotheism.\n\nZoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion, although Zoroastrianism is often regarded as dualistic, duotheistic or bitheistic, for its belief in the hypostatis of the ultimately good Ahura Mazda \"(creative spirit)\" and the ultimately evil Angra Mainyu \"(destructive spirit)\". Zorastrianism was once one of the largest religions on Earth, as the official religion of the Persian Empire. By some scholars, the Zoroastrians (\"Parsis\" or \"Zartoshtis\") are credited with being some of the first monotheists and having had influence on other world religions. Gathered statistics shows the number of adherents at as many as 3.5 million, with adherents living in many regions, including South Asia.\n\nThe surviving fragments of the poems of the classical Greek philosopher Xenophanes of Colophon suggest that he held views very similar to those of modern monotheists. His poems harshly criticize the traditional notion of anthropomorphic gods, commenting that \"...if cattle and horses and lions had hands or could paint with their hands and create works such as men do... [they] also would depict the gods' shapes and make their bodies of such a sort as the form they themselves have.\" Instead, Xenophanes declares that there is \"...one god, greatest among gods and humans, like mortals neither in form nor in thought.\" Xenophanes's theology appears to have been monist, but not truly monotheistic in the strictest sense. Although some later philosophers, such as Antisthenes, believed in doctrines similar to those expounded by Xenophanes, his ideas do not appear to have become widely popular.\n\nIn Plato's writings, he often presents Socrates as speaking of \"the God\" in the singular form. He does, however, often speak of the gods in the plural form as well. The Euthyphro dilemma, for example, is formulated as \"Is that which is holy loved by the gods because it is holy, or is it holy because it is loved by the gods?\"\n\nThe development of pure (philosophical) monotheism is a product of the Late Antiquity. During the 2nd to 3rd centuries, early Christianity was just one of several competing religious movements advocating monotheism.\n\n\"The One\" (Τὸ Ἕν) is a concept that is prominent in the writings of the Neoplatonists, especially those of the philosopher Plotinus. In the writings of Plotinus, \"The One\" is described as an inconceivable, transcendent, all-embodying, permanent, eternal, causative entity that permeates throughout all of existence.\nA number of oracles of Apollo from Didyma and Clarus, the so-called \"theological oracles\", dated to the 2nd and 3rd century CE, proclaim that there is only one highest god, of whom the gods of polytheistic religions are mere manifestations or servants. \n\nAristotle's concept of the \"Uncaused Cause\"—never incorporated into the polytheistic ancient Greek religion—has been used by many exponents of Abrahamic religions to articulate their arguments for the existence of the Judeo-Christian-Islamic version of God.\n\nThe Hypsistarians were a religious group who believed in a most high god, according to Greek documents. Later revisions of this Hellenic religion were adjusted towards Monotheism as it gained consideration among a wider populace. The worship of Zeus as the head-god signaled a trend in the direction of monotheism, with less honour paid to the fragmented powers of the lesser gods.\n\nVarious New religious movements, such as Cao Đài, Tenrikyo, Seicho no Ie, and Cheondoism, are monotheistic.\n\nTengrism or Tangrism (sometimes stylized as Tengriism), occasionally referred to as Tengrianism , is a modern term for a Central Asian religion characterized by features of shamanism, animism, totemism, both polytheism and monotheism, and ancestor worship. Historically, it was the prevailing religion of the Bulgars, Turks, Mongols, and Hungarians, as well as the Xiongnu and the Huns. It was the state religion of the six ancient Turkic states: Avar Khaganate, Old Great Bulgaria, First Bulgarian Empire, Göktürks Khaganate, Eastern Tourkia and Western Turkic Khaganate. In \"Irk Bitig\", Tengri is mentioned as \"Türük Tängrisi\" (God of Turks). The term is perceived among Turkic peoples as a \"national\" religion.\n\nIn Sino-Tibetan and Turco-Mongol traditions, the Supreme God is commonly referred to as the ruler of Heaven, or the Sky Lord granted with omnipotent powers, but it has largely diminished in those regions due to ancestor worship, Taoism's pantheistic views and Buddhism's rejection of a creator God, although Mahayana Buddhism does seem to keep a sense of divinity. On some occasions in the mythology, the Sky Lord as identified as a male has been associated to mate with an Earth Mother, while some traditions kept the omnipotence of the Sky Lord unshared.\n\nNative American theology may be monotheistic, polytheistic, henotheistic, animistic, or some combination thereof.\n\nCherokee for example are monotheist as well as pantheist.\n\nThe Great Spirit, called \"Wakan Tanka\" among the Sioux, and \"Gitche Manitou\" in Algonquian, is a conception of universal spiritual force, or supreme being prevalent among some Native American and First Nation cultures. According to Lakota activist Russell Means a better translation of \"Wakan Tanka\" is the Great Mystery.\n\nSome researchers have interpreted Aztec philosophy as fundamentally monotheistic or panentheistic. While the populace at large believed in a polytheistic pantheon, Aztec priests and nobles might have come to an interpretation of Teotl as a single universal force with many facets. There has been criticism to this idea, however, most notably that many assertions of this supposed monotheism might actually come from post-Conquistador bias, imposing an Antiquity pagan model unto the Aztec.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43052358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43052358", "title": "National colours of Israel", "text": "National colours of Israel\n\nThe national colours of Israel are blue and white as seen on the flag of Israel. \nThese two national colors represent as patriotism in modern-day usage including people and government authorities. However, these colors are not mentioned by law, but they are the national colors in an informal and substantial practice. Blue and white colors decorates many flags, symbols, etc. Eg: Blue-White (\"Blau-Weiss\") Zionist youth moment in Germany and Blue and white (\"\") patriotic song.\nBook of Numbers mentions in , it says that the Israelites were commanded to put fringes on the corners of their garments, and to put a cord of blue border upon these fringes.\n\n"}
{"id": "6846983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6846983", "title": "One Little Ship", "text": "One Little Ship\n\n\"One Little Ship\" is the 138th episode of the television series \"\". It is the 14th episode of the .\n\nIn order to investigate a rare subspace phenomenon, Dax, O'Brien, and Bashir board the Runabout USS \"Rubicon\", which as a side-effect of the anomaly is shrunk to four inches (10 cm) long. However, while investigating the phenomenon, the \"USS Defiant\" is boarded by Jem'Hadar (Dominion space forces).\n\nThe episode received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Special Visual Effects for a Series.\n\nThe USS \"Defiant\" is sent on a mission to investigate a subspace anomaly, which could yield significant technological advances for the Federation. Jadzia Dax (Terry Farrell), Miles O'Brien (Colm Meaney) and Julian Bashir (Alexander Siddig) take the runabout USS \"Rubicon\" into the anomaly in order to take readings, tethered to the \"Defiant\" by a tractor beam. As a side-effect of entering the anomaly, the entire runabout is shrunk to only several centimeters high, but the crew expects to return to normal once they exit. However, during the procedure, the \"Defiant\" is attacked by a Jem'Hadar attack ship, disabled, and boarded by Jem'Hadar soldiers. The tractor beam is disconnected, leaving the runabout in the anomaly where the Jem'Hadar cannot detect it.\n\nAboard the \"Defiant\", the Jem'Hadar discover that the engines are damaged. The Jem'Hadar First Kudak'Etan (Scott Thompson Baker) celebrates victory, declaring that the new generation of Jem'Hadar born in the Alpha Quadrant are superior to those in the Gamma Quadrant. He overrules his Gamma-born Second Ixtana'Rax (Fritz Sperberg), despite his status as an \"honored elder\" and greater experience. Kudak'Etan reports in to his Vorta superior, Gelnon (Leland Crooke), who orders him to prioritize repairs to the \"Defiant\" warp drive and get underway to the nearest Dominion outpost, while the Jem'Hadar ship departs for another mission. Meanwhile, the \"Rubicon\" escapes the anomaly and sets course for the \"Defiant\", unaware that they have not returned to their previous size, as their sensors are offline.\n\nDiscovering their predicament and unable to communicate with the \"Defiant\", the runabout decides to enter the ship through a plasma vent. Meanwhile, Kudak'Etan has Benjamin Sisko (Avery Brooks) brought to the bridge and demands that he help the repair efforts on the warp drive. Sisko claims he needs his crew to do so, and Kudak'Etan grants his request over Ixtana'Rax's objections. On the way to the engine room, Ixtana'Rax threatens Sisko, and reveals the dissent between the Alpha and Gamma Jem'Hadar. Meanwhile, after narrowly avoiding being destroyed when the impulse engines are restarted, the \"Rubicon\" makes its way into the engine room and discovers the Jem'Hadar takeover.\n\nThe \"Rubicon\" crew observe the Starfleet crew members in engineering, and realize their plan - Sisko has Kira (Nana Visitor) conduct repairs, though slowly to stall for time, while Sisko, Worf (Michael Dorn) and Nog (Aron Eisenberg) are attempting to regain control of the ship. O'Brien observes that Nog is attempting to override the ship's security codes, and suggests that they take the \"Rubicon\" to the bridge to assist them. When Kudak'Etan enters, Sisko complains about Ixtana'Rax's interference, driving an additional wedge between the two. As the Jem'Hadar departs, the \"Rubicon\" follows him through the door.\n\nSisko realizes they need an alternate plan if they are unable to regain control of the ship, and instructs Worf to plant a virus which will destroy the ship when it enters warp. Meanwhile, the \"Rubicon\" sneaks onto the bridge, where O'Brien and Bashir beam into a computer node to manually bypass the command codes. Despite O'Brien's initial disorientation, they manage to reroute the circuitry. At the same time in engineering, Nog believes he has cracked the codes but Ixtana'Rax orders the \"Defiant\" crew away from the computer consoles, revealing he is aware of the crew's delays, and the warp drive has actually been operational for an hour. Kudak'Etan orders the Starfleet crew locked up, and that the ship make way to the outpost, ignoring Ixtana'Rax's concerns about sabotage. The \"Rubicon\" then attacks the Jem'Hadar, and together with Sisko and the crew are able to overcome them. Sisko floods the ship with gas to knock out the remaining Jem'Hadar and orders Kira to disable the virus before the ship is destroyed.\n\nAfter subduing the Jem'Hadar and taking back the ship, the \"Rubicon\" re-enters the anomaly and is returned to its normal size. Back at Deep Space Nine, however, Odo (René Auberjonois) and Quark (Armin Shimerman) tease O'Brien and Bashir, wondering if they have returned slightly shorter than when they left, and share a laugh as the two rush to sick bay in a panic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22588", "title": "Oswald Spengler", "text": "Oswald Spengler\n\nOswald Arnold Gottfried Spengler (29 May 1880 – 8 May 1936) was a German historian and philosopher of history whose interests included mathematics, science, and art. He is best known for his book \"The Decline of the West\" (\"Der Untergang des Abendlandes\"), published in 1918 and 1922, covering all of world history. Spengler's model of history postulates that any culture is a superorganism with a limited and predictable lifespan.\n\nSpengler predicted that about the year 2000, Western civilization would enter the period of pre‑death emergency whose countering would necessitate Caesarism (extraconstitutional omnipotence of the executive branch of the central government).\n\nSpengler is rendered as a nationalist, anti-democratic, and a prominent member of the Conservative Revolution, but he rejected National Socialism due to its racialism. Instead, he saw his ideal realised in Benito Mussolini, the dictator of Fascist Italy.\n\nHe correctly predicted important developments of his time and strongly influenced other historians, including Franz Borkenau and especially Arnold J. Toynbee.\n\nOswald Spengler was born in 1880 in Blankenburg (the Duchy of Brunswick, the German Reich) as the second child of Bernhard (1844–1901) and Pauline (1840–1910) Spengler. Oswald's elder brother was born prematurely (eight months) in 1879, when his mother tried to move a heavy laundry basket, and died at the age of three weeks. Oswald was born ten months after his brother's death. His younger sisters were Adele (1881–1917), Gertrud (1882–1957), and Hildegard (1885–1942).\n\nOswald's paternal grandfather, Theodor Spengler (1806–76), was a metallurgical inspector (\"Hütteninspektor\") in Altenbrak. Oswald's father, Bernhard Spengler, held the position of a postal secretary (\"Postsekretär\") and was a hard-working man with a marked dislike of intellectualism, who tried to instil the same values and attitudes in his son.\n\nOn 26 May 1799, Friedrich Wilhelm Grantzow, a tailor's apprentice in Berlin, married a Jewish woman named Bräunchen Moses (whose parents, Abraham and Reile Moses, were both deceased by that time). Shortly before the wedding, Bräunchen Moses (\"ca.\" 1769–1849) was baptized as Johanna Elisabeth Anspachin (the surname was chosen after her birthplace—Anspach). The couple had eight children (three before and five after the wedding), one of whom was Gustav Adolf Grantzow (1811–83)—a solo dancer and ballet master in Berlin, who in 1837 married Katharina Kirchner (1813–73), a nervously beautiful solo dancer from a Munich Catholic family; the second of their four daughters was Oswald Spengler's mother Pauline Grantzow. Like the Grantzows in general, Pauline was of a Bohemian disposition, and, before marrying Bernhard Spengler, accompanied her dancer sister on tours. She was the least talented member of the Grantzow family. In appearance, she was plump and a bit unseemly. Her temperament, which Oswald inherited, complemented her appearance and frail physique: she was moody, irritable, and morose.\n\nWhen Oswald was ten years of age, his family moved to the university city of Halle. Here he received a classical education at the local Gymnasium (academically oriented secondary school), studying Greek, Latin, mathematics and sciences. Here, too, he developed his propensity for the arts—especially poetry, drama, and music—and came under the influence of the ideas of Goethe and Nietzsche:\n\nAfter his father's death in 1901 Spengler attended several universities (Munich, Berlin, and Halle) as a private scholar, taking courses in a wide range of subjects. His private studies were undirected. In 1903, he failed his doctoral thesis on Heraclitus (titled \"Der metaphysische Grundgedanke der Heraklitischen Philosophie\", \"The Metaphysical Fundamental Thought in Heraclitean Philosophy\", and conducted under the direction of Alois Riehl) because of insufficient references, which effectively ended his chances of an academic career. He eventually received his Ph.D. from Halle on 6 April 1904. In December 1904, he set to write the secondary dissertation (\"Staatsexamensarbeit\") necessary to qualify as a high school teacher. This became \"The Development of the Organ of Sight in the Higher Realms of the Animal Kingdom\" (\"Die Entwicklung des Sehorgans bei den Hauptstufen des Tierreiches\"). It was approved and he received his teaching certificate. In 1905 Spengler suffered a nervous breakdown.\n\nBiographers report his life as a teacher was uneventful. He briefly served as a teacher in Saarbrücken and then in Düsseldorf. From 1908 to 1911 he worked at a grammar school (\"Realgymnasium\") in Hamburg, where he taught science, German history, and mathematics.\n\nIn 1911, following his mother's death, he moved to Munich, where he would live until his death in 1936. He lived as a cloistered scholar, supported by his modest inheritance. Spengler survived on very limited means and was marked by loneliness. He owned no books, and took jobs as a tutor or wrote for magazines to earn additional income.\n\nHe began work on the first volume of \"Decline of the West\" intending at first to focus on Germany within Europe, but the Agadir Crisis of 1911 affected him deeply, and he widened the scope of his study:\n\nThe book was completed in 1914, but publishing was delayed by World War I. Due to a congenital heart problem, Spengler was not called up for military service. During the war, however, his inheritance was largely useless because it was invested overseas; thus he lived in genuine poverty for this period.\n\nWhen \"The Decline of the West\" was published in the summer of 1918, it was a wild success. The perceived national humiliation of the Treaty of Versailles (1919) and later the economic depression around 1923 fueled by hyperinflation seemed to prove Spengler right. It comforted Germans because it seemingly rationalized their downfall as part of larger world-historical processes. The book met with wide success outside of Germany as well, and by 1919 had been translated into several other languages. Spengler rejected a subsequent offer to become Professor of Philosophy at the University of Göttingen, saying he needed time to focus on writing.\n\nThe book was widely discussed, even by those who had not read it. Historians took umbrage at his unapologetically non-scientific approach. Thomas Mann compared reading Spengler's book to reading Schopenhauer for the first time. Academics gave it a mixed reception. Max Weber described Spengler as a \"very ingenious and learned dilettante\", while Karl Popper called the thesis \"pointless\".\n\nThe great historian of antiquity Eduard Meyer thought highly of Spengler, although he also had some criticisms of him. Spengler's obscurity, intuitionalism, and mysticism were easy targets, especially for the Positivists and neo-Kantians who rejected the possibility that there was meaning in world history. The critic and aesthete Count Harry Kessler thought him unoriginal and rather inane, especially in regard to his opinion on Nietzsche. Ludwig Wittgenstein, however, shared Spengler's cultural pessimism. Spengler's work became an important foundation for the social cycle theory.\n\nIn late 1919, Spengler published \"Prussianism and Socialism\" (\"Preußentum und Sozialismus\"), an essay based on notes intended for the second volume of \"The Decline of the West\" in which he argues that Germanic socialism is the correct socialism in contrast to English socialism. In his view, correct socialism has a much more \"national\" spirit.\n\nAccording to Spengler, mankind will spend the next and last several hundred years of its existence in a state of Caesarian socialism, when all humans will be into a harmonious and happy totality by a dictator, like an orchestra is synergized into a harmonious totality by its conductor\n\nA 1928 \"Time\" review of the second volume of \"Decline\" described the immense influence and controversy Spengler's ideas enjoyed during the 1920s: \"When the first volume of \"The Decline of the West\" appeared in Germany a few years ago, thousands of copies were sold. Cultivated European discourse quickly became Spengler-saturated. Spenglerism spurted from the pens of countless disciples. It was imperative to read Spengler, to sympathize or revolt. It still remains so\".\n\nIn the second volume, published in 1922, Spengler argued that German socialism differed from Marxism, and was in fact compatible with traditional German conservatism. In 1924, following the social-economic upheaval and inflation, Spengler entered politics in an effort to bring Reichswehr general Hans von Seeckt to power as the country's leader. The attempt failed and Spengler proved ineffective in practical politics.\n\nIn 1931, he published \"Man and Technics\", which warned against the dangers of technology and industrialism to culture. He especially pointed to the tendency of Western technology to spread to hostile \"Colored races\" which would then use the weapons against the West. It was poorly received because of its anti-industrialism. This book contains the well-known Spengler quote \"Optimism is cowardice\".\n\nDespite voting for Hitler over Hindenburg in 1932, Spengler found the Führer vulgar. He met Hitler in 1933 and after a lengthy discussion remained unimpressed, saying that Germany did not need a \"heroic tenor <nowiki>[</nowiki>\"Heldentenor\": one of several conventional tenor classifications] but a real hero [\"Held\"]\". He quarreled publicly with Alfred Rosenberg, and his pessimism and remarks about the Führer resulted in isolation and public silence. He further rejected offers from Joseph Goebbels to give public speeches. However, Spengler did become a member of the German Academy in the course of the year.\n\n\"The Hour of Decision\", published in 1934, was a bestseller, but the Nazis later banned it for its critiques of National Socialism. Spengler's criticisms of liberalism were welcomed by the Nazis, but Spengler disagreed with their biological ideology and anti-Semitism. While racial mysticism played a key role in his own worldview, Spengler had always been an outspoken critic of the pseudo-scientific racial theories professed by the Nazis and many others in his time, and was not inclined to change his views upon Hitler's rise to power. Although himself a German nationalist, Spengler viewed the Nazis as too narrowly German, and not occidental enough to lead the fight against other peoples. The book also warned of a coming world war in which Western Civilization risked being destroyed, and was widely distributed abroad before eventually being banned in Germany. A \"Time\" review of \"The Hour of Decision\" noted his international popularity as a polemicist, observing that \"When Oswald Spengler speaks, many a Western Worldling stops to listen\". The review recommended the book for \"readers who enjoy vigorous writing\", who \"will be glad to be rubbed the wrong way by Spengler's harsh aphorisms\" and his pessimistic predictions.\n\nIn his private papers, Spengler denounced Nazi anti-Semitism in even stronger terms, writing \"and how much envy of the capability of other people in view of one's lack of it lies hidden in anti-Semitism!\" and that \"when one would rather destroy business and scholarship than see Jews in them, one is an ideologue, i.e., a danger for the nation. Idiotic.\"\n\nOn 13 October 1933 Spengler became one of the 100 senators of the German Academy.\n\nSpengler spent his final years in Munich, listening to Beethoven, reading Molière and Shakespeare, buying several thousand books, and collecting ancient Turkish, Persian and Indian weapons. He made occasional trips to the Harz mountains, and to Italy. In the spring of 1936 (shortly before his death), he prophetically remarked in a letter to Reichsleiter Hans Frank that \"in ten years, the German Reich will probably no longer exist\" (\"da ja wohl in zehn Jahren ein Deutsches Reich nicht mehr existieren wird!\"). He died of a heart attack on 8 May 1936, in Munich, three weeks before his 56th birthday and exactly nine years before the fall of the Third Reich.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4195924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4195924", "title": "Pala d'Oro", "text": "Pala d'Oro\n\nPala d’Oro (Italian, \"Golden Pall\" or \"Golden Cloth\") is the high altar retable of the Basilica di San Marco in Venice. It is universally recognized as one of the most refined and accomplished works of Byzantine enamel, with both front and rear sides decorated.\n\nThe Pala d’Oro was thought to be first commissioned in 976 by Doge Pietro Orseolo, where it was made up of precious stones and several enamels depicting various saints, and in 1105 it was expanded on by Doge Ordelaffo Falier. In 1345, goldsmith Giovanni Paolo Bonesegna was commissioned to complete the altarpiece by Andrea Dandolo, who was the procurator at the time, and later became doge. Bonesegna added a Gothic-style frame to the piece, along with more precious stones. Dandolo also included an inscription describing what his own additions were, along with those of his predecessors.\n\nPaolo Veneziano was commissioned to make wood panels to provide a cover for when the altarpiece was not on display. Veneziano was commissioned between 1342-4 to make this cover, where it was dated 1345 and signed by him along with his sons, Luca and Giovanni. The cover is made from two pieces. The top plank features the Man of Sorrows in the center, who is surrounded by the Virgin and Sts. John, George, Mark, Peter, and Nicholas. The bottom plank shows narratives of Life, Martyrdom, Burial, and Translation of St Mark. The wooden panels were opened to the public during liturgies only. In the 15th century, Veneziano's \"exterior\" altarpiece was replaced by a wooden panel which remains today, though the Pala is now always open.\n\nThe altarpiece is 3 meters (9.8 ft) wide by 2 meters (6.6 ft) tall. It is made of gold and silver, 187 enamel plaques, and 1,927 gems. These include 526 pearls, 330 garnets, 320 emeralds, 255 sapphires, 183 amethysts, 175 agates, 75 rubies, 34 topazes, 16 carnelians, and 13 jaspers.\n\nThe altarpiece consists of two parts. The enamels in the top section of the Pala d’Oro contain the Archangel Michael at the center, with six images depicting the Life of Christ on either side of him, which were added in 1209. They show the Entry of Christ into Jerusalem, Descent into Limbo, Crucifixion, Ascension, Pentecost, and Death of the Virgin. It’s generally thought that these weren’t originally part of the altarpiece, as their stylistic features place them into the 12th century, and they were probably looted during the Fourth Crusade.\n\nThe bottom section contains the enamels that told the Life of St. Mark. These were created in 1105 in Constantinople, and were commissioned by Doge Ordelaffo Falier. They used to be positioned along the base, but have since been moved to their current position along the sides and the top row of this section.\n\nAlso in the bottom section is an enamel depicting Christ at the center of the altarpiece, and the four circular enamels around him are images of the Four Evangelists. To the right and left of Christ are the twelve apostles, six to each side. Above Christ is an empty throne, which represents the Last Judgement and the Second Coming of Christ, with angels and archangels on either side of it. Underneath Christ and the apostles are the twelve prophets, with the Virgin—flanked by Falier and Empress Irene—at the center.\n\nThe two figures surrounding the Virgin are images of Doge Ordelaffo Falier and Byzantine Empress Irene. The depiction of Falier seems to be slightly off as his head is too small in proportion to his body. There is evidence that shows the original head was removed, and replaced with a new one. There are also scratches on the enamel from when the previous head was removed, and some type of wax or paste was used to fill in the gaps where the replacement piece didn’t exactly fit.\n\nWhile there have been theories that the previous head depicted an emperor, that explanation doesn’t quite fit. Emperors are usually depicted with red footwear, and this figure is wearing black footwear, with no signs of being altered. Additionally, the enamel bears Falier’s name, which would have required a lot of effort to change, and would have left evidence behind. The most likely explanation is that the original head was in fact Falier’s head, but without a halo. Later, church officials—possibly even Falier himself—decided to replace it to include a halo. The scepter he’s holding restricted how much could be altered, which required the crafters to make the new image slightly smaller.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1339868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339868", "title": "Portable hole", "text": "Portable hole\n\nIn various works of fiction, a portable hole is a device that can be used to contravene the laws of physics. It generally resembles a circular cloth which is placed on a surface to create a hole. If placed on a wall, the user could crawl through the hole and come out on the other side of the surface. Placed on the ground, the user might be able to insert objects into it or allow others to fall in, as if he or she had dug a hole. The exact method in which the device works is dependent on the work of fiction.\n\nPortable holes are sometimes created and used in Looney Tunes cartoons, including such variations as foldable doorways.\n\n\"The Hole Idea\" (1955, animated and directed by Robert McKimson) depicts the invention of the portable hole by Calvin Q. Calculus. This is apparently the portable hole's first appearance on screen.\n\nOne Roadrunner cartoon involved the use of \"liquid hole\", a black tar-like substance that came in a bottle. When poured on a surface, it dried into a portable hole with the consistency of a circle of cloth. Another episode (\"The Black Hole\") has the coyote using a portable hole, which is picked up and reused by the roadrunner.\n\nIn the Morph episode, \"Portable Hole\", a portable hole is used to access cakes which are hidden in the hole. A pair of holes are also used to construct a portal, allowing a character's hand, and several inanimate objects, to pass from one to the other.\n\n\"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\" uses a portable hole as a plot device\".\" Detective Eddie Valient is able to escape being crushed by a steamroller by using one.\n\nIn \"Yellow Submarine\", Ringo picks up a hole he finds in the \"Sea of Holes\", put it in his pocket, and uses it later to aid an escape, leading to his classic line of dialogue \"I've got a hole in me pocket\". He uses the hole to save Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band from an anti-music globe that they are trapped in, and, according to the live-action epilogue, gave half of the hole to the Nowhere Man.\n\nOne of Terry Gilliam's cartoons in \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" has the police using a large portable hole in the road to catch criminals, they fall in, then the hole is taken to the lockup and thrown upon the ceiling causing the criminals to fall out. Another cartoon involves the pepperpot Mrs. Cutout being deposited in front of a laundromat by a large portable doorway.\n\nIn an episode of \"Ed, Edd n Eddy\" entitled \"One + One = Ed\", Eddy falls through a hole in the ground which causes him to appear in the sky off-camera, where he then falls through the hole in a recursive loop. This continues until Ed picks up the hole, leaving Eddy to crash onto the now-solid ground. Ed uses the hole for a couple gags then eventually rolls it up and keeps it. Later in the cartoon, Edd and Eddy fall into a manhole, and Ed, believing it to be another portable hole, says, \"Don't worry guys! I'll just pick up the hole again!\", and proceeds to excavate the entire manhole entrance tube from the ground.\n\nThe cartoon series \"Channel Umptee-3\" features a character named Holey Moley, who carries several portable holes and uses at least one in every episode.\n\nIn the Disney series The New Adventures of Winnie-the-Pooh, Gopher searches for a hole blown off on an overly windy day.\n\nIn Rajiv Joseph's play, \"Guards at the Taj\", one of the characters, Humayun, invents a \"transportable hole\". Humayun describes it:\n\nIn the novelization of \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", Elliott uses a portable hole when the lead characters are playing Dungeons & Dragons.\n\nA portable hole is used in Jack Vance's \"Liane the Wayfarer,\" published in \"The Dying Earth\" in 1950.\n\nThere is a comic character called Horrible Hole which is a living portable hole. Similar characters include The Spot (a Spider-Man villain) and Doorman, a mutant member of the Great Lakes Avengers.\n\nIn episode 695 of the \"Final Fantasy\"-based comic \"8-Bit Theater\", Fighter, after buying some items and a portable hole with Red Mage, decides to \"work smarter, not harder,\" and put all the items into the portable hole. He then proceeds to fold the portable hole into itself.\n\nIn the anime and manga series \"One Piece\", a villain known as Blueno has the ability to create doors on any surface, including the air.\n\nIn the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" fantasy role-playing game, a portable hole is a circle of cloth made from phase spider webs, strands of ether and beams of starlight. When deployed, it creates an extradimensional space six feet in diameter by ten feet deep. Folding the cloth causes the entrance to this space to disappear, but items placed inside the hole remain there. Sufficient air is contained in the hole to support life for up to ten minutes.\n\nIn Alan Cox's AberMUD, a portable hole could be used to carry equipment.\n\nIn the computer game Disney's \"Toontown Online\", players can move, or, teleport to a new location by pulling holes from their pockets and jumping into them.\n\nPortable holes are one of the \"hazard\" weapons in the game \"Cel Damage\".\n\nIn \"\", Prince Alexander solves many problems with the use of a \"hole in the wall\" he finds on the Isle of Wonder.\n\nIn \"Kingdom of Loathing\", a combat item called a \"plot hole\" is captured from probability giants, a portable hole which is used as a land mine, reducing an enemy's health by twenty, and confusing one.\n\nThe video game \"Portal\" features a gun that shoots portals whose behavior are similar to holes. In this case, two holes are created, and if someone walks or falls through, they arrive at the other with the same speed but turned in the direction the portal is facing. One use of this is to \"fling\" oneself.\n\nIn many of \"The Sims\" games, if a person trying to leave your property is trapped in a room with no doors, one will take out a portable hole and use it to teleport out.\n\nIn the game \"World of Warcraft\", A new 24 slot bind on equip bag sold by Shattrath's socialite extraordinare, Haris Pilton called Portable Hole was introduced in patch 3.3.\n\nIn the game Toonstruck the player can collect a portable hole which is used to quickly travel between lands.\n\nThe Unicode symbol for HOLE, U+1F573, with alias \"portable hole\" was approved in 2014 as part of the Miscellaneous Symbols and Pictographs chart in Unicode 7.0, and was part of Emoji 1.0, published in 2015. As pictorial representations for emoji are platform-dependent, Emojipedia shows images of the (portable) hole symbol as depicted on various platforms.\n\n"}
{"id": "3349073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349073", "title": "Progress in International Reading Literacy Study", "text": "Progress in International Reading Literacy Study\n\nThe IEA's Progress in International Reading Literacy Study (PIRLS) is an international study of reading (comprehension) achievement in fourth graders. It is conducted by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA). It is designed to measure children’s reading literacy\nachievement, to provide a baseline for future studies of trends in achievement, and to gather information about children’s home and school experiences in learning to read. PIRLS 2006 tested 215,000 students from 46 educational systems. PIRLS 2011 testing results were published in December 2012. \"The reading achievement results present each country with an opportunity to examine educational policies and practices against a globally-defined benchmark, while the report also contains rich information about children's early literacy experiences and reading instruction\" (PIRLS International Study Directors, Ina V.S. Mullis and Michael O. Martin of Boston College.)\n\nPIRLS provides internationally comparative data on how well children read by assessing students’ reading achievement. PIRLS collects considerable background information on how education systems provide educational opportunities to their students as well as the factors that influence how students use these opportunities. These background data include information about the following: national curriculum policies in reading; how the education system is organized to facilitate learning; students’ home environment for learning; school climate and resources; and how instruction actually occurs in classrooms. Studies of reading literacy had been conducted prior to the PIRLS study of 2001, and PIRLS is the successor to IEA studies, such as the Reading Literacy Study, that started in 1970 and continued until 1991. The PIRLS study of 2001 started the trend for cyclical testing; PIRLS has a frequency of five years. By administering the test every five years, education systems are able to monitor their children's literacy achievement over time. The current cycle, PIRLS 2016, is the fourth cycle of the IEA PIRLS. Like the previous PIRLS cycles (conducted in 2001, 2006, and 2011), the study will also collect extensive information about home supports for literacy, curriculum and curriculum implementation, instructional practices, and school resources in each participating country.\n\nThe IEA Progress in International Reading Literacy Study (PIRLS) 2001 was the first cycle of assessments to measure trends in children's reading literacy achievement, and policy and practices related to literacy. The study examined three aspects of reading literacy: processes of comprehension, purposes for reading, and reading literacy behavior and attitudes. 35 countries took part in the first cycle where students enrolled in the fourth grade were assessed.\n\nPIRLS 2006 assessed a range of reading comprehension strategies for two major reading purposes: literary and informational. The student test of reading comprehension addressed four processes:\n\nFor the second cycle of the study 41 countries participated assessing students of grade four. PIRLS 2006 assessed students enrolled in the fourth grade.\n\nCombining newly developed reading assessment passages and questions for 2011 with a selection of secure assessment passages and questions from 2001 and 2006, the study offered a state-of-the-art assessment of reading comprehension that allowed for measurement of changes since 2001. The international population for PIRLS 2011 consisted of students in the grade that represents four years of schooling, provided that the mean age at the time of testing was at least 9.5 years. In the 2011 cycle, prePIRLS (now known as PIRLS Literacy) was offered to assess basic reading skills as a bridge to PIRLS, for countries where most children are still developing fundamental reading skills at the end of the primary school cycle.\n\nPIRLS 2016 was released on December 5, 2017. It also collects extensive information about home supports for literacy, curriculum and curriculum implementation, instructional practices, and school resources in each participating country. In this cycle there were two additional initiatives: \n(1) the PIRLS Literacy assessment (earlier known as prePIRLS) is equivalent to PIRLS in scope and reflects the same conception of reading as PIRLS. Its purpose is to extend the effective measurement of reading literacy at the lower end of the achievement scale. Countries whose fourth-grade students are still developing fundamental reading skills can participate in the PIRLS Literacy assessment and still have their results reported on the PIRLS achievement scale. The reading passages and questions in common between the PIRLS Literacy and the PIRLS assessments will enable the two assessments to be linked, and their results to be compared.\n(2) Initiated in 2016, ePIRLS is a computer-based reading assessment of students’ ability to acquire and use information when reading online. The assessment encompasses an engaging, simulated internet environment with authentic school-like assignments about science and social studies topics. The ePIRLS online reading achievement scale enables countries to examine their fourth-graders’ online reading performance relative to their performance on the PIRLS reading achievement scales.\n\nIn terms of trends, the PIRLS results for student achievement by country states that 18 countries had higher average achievement, 13 countries had the same average achievement, and 10 countries had lower average achievement; and girls had higher reading achievement than boys in 48 0f the 50 countries.\n\nThe 2016 PIRLS Encyclopedia has the Education Policy and Curriculum in Reading by country. It describes the structure of each education system, the reading curricula in the primary grades, and overall policies related to reading instruction.\n\nThe ten countries with the highest average reading achievement were: Russian Federation, Singapore, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Finland, Poland, Northern Ireland, Norway, Chinese Taipie, and England.\n\nPIRLS 2021 will be the fifth cycle in the PIRLS framework. IEA's PIRLS will continue to collect considerable background information from the assessed students, their parents, teachers and school principals on how education systems provide educational opportunities to their students, as well as the factors that influence how students use these opportunities. Trend results across assessments permit countries to monitor the effectiveness of their educational systems in a global context, and PIRLS 2021 marks 20 years of trends.\n\nPIRLS 2021 evolves further from PIRLS 2016 in allowing countries to administer the full PIRLS reading assessment, including both PIRLS Informational and Literary (the previous standard PIRLS assessment), and the ePIRLS Online Informational (the previous ePIRLS), as one seamless digitally based endeavour. Countries may also select from two levels of the PIRLS assessment; providing students with an assessment experience better suited to their reading abilities increases student motivation and provides more accurate assessment data. All results will be reported on the same PIRLS achievement scale.\n\nPIRLS 2021 thus offers three flexible options, enabling participants to select the administration path best suited to assessing their education system:(1) A new fully digital ePIRLS assessment, which integrates all aspects of PIRLS Informational, PIRLS Literary, and the ePIRLS Online Informational assessments; 2) The paper-only version of the PIRLS assessment, which is equivalent to the original pen-and-paper PIRLS standard assessment; and (3) The paper-only version of the PIRLS assessment, taken together with the ePIRLS Online Informational assessment.\n\nThe PIRLS study consists of a main survey that consists of a written reading comprehension test and a background questionnaire. The PIRLS Reading Development Group (RDG) and National Research Coordinators (NRCs) from the participating countries collaborate to develop the reading assessments. The assessment focuses on three main areas of literacy: process of comprehension, purposes for reading, and reading behaviors and attitudes. The background questionnaire is used to determine the reading behaviors and attitudes. The written test is designed to address the process of comprehension and the purposes for reading. There are two purposes for reading that are examined in this study: reading for literary experience and reading to acquire and use information. Each student receives 80 minutes to complete two passages and then time to complete the survey. There are a total of 8 passage. Four passages are for each purpose of reading. \"With eight reading passages in total, but just two to be given to any\none student, passages and their accompanying items were assigned to student test booklets according to a matrix sampling plan. The eight passages were distributed across 10 booklets, two per booklet, so that passages were paired together in a booklet in as many different ways as possible.\" The PIRLS target population is the grade that represents four years of schooling, counting from the first year of ISCED Level 1, which corresponds to the fourth grade in most countries. To better match the assessment to the achievement level of students, countries have the option of administering PIRLS or PIRLS Literacy at the fifth or sixth grade.\n\nGiven to:\n\n\n\nPIRLS 2016 is the fourth assessment in the current trend series, following PIRLS 2001, 2006, and 2011. Participating countries include: Argentina (Buenos Aires), Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belgium (Flemish), Belgium (French), Botswana, Bulgaria, Canada (with Ontario and Quebec as benchmarking systems), Chile, Chinese Taipei, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, England, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Hungary, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lithuania, Malta, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, Norway, Oman, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain (with Andalusia as a benchmarking system), Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, United Arab Emirates (with Abu Dhabi and Dubai as benchmarking systems), and United States. All of the countries, institutions, and agencies involved in successive PIRLS assessments have worked collaboratively in building the most comprehensive and innovative measure of reading comprehension possible, beginning in 2001 and improving with each cycle since then. PIRLS is directed by the TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center at Boston College.\n\nPIRLS 2021 will be the fifth assessment, marking 20 years of trends. Country enrollment opened in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3040833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3040833", "title": "RFD-TV", "text": "RFD-TV\n\nRFD-TV is an American digital cable and satellite television channel that is owned by Rural Media Group. The channel features programming devoted to rural issues, concerns and interests. The channel's name is a reference to Rural Free Delivery, the name for the United States Postal Service's system of delivering mail directly to rural patrons. Production and uplinking facilities for RFD-TV are located at Northstar Studios in Nashville, Tennessee, while the channel's corporate & national sales office is based in Omaha, Nebraska. RFD-TV's sister radio station is Sirius XM's Rural Radio. RFD-TV also owns a theater in Branson, Missouri where some variety shows that air on RFD-TV are filmed.\n\nAs of February 2015, RFD-TV is available to approximately 47.3 million pay television households (40.7% of households with television) in the United States. It is currently carried by satellite providers Dish Network and DirecTV, as well as through cable providers such as Mediacom, Charter Communications, Cox Communications and Armstrong. It is not available in most Comcast markets; Comcast dropped the channel in many of its Western markets in 2013. In addition to its cable and satellite coverage, RFD-TV is offered as an Internet television feed; the feed is currently paywalled and requires a paying subscription, with a TV Everywhere said to be coming soon. It was added to Sling TV on April 4, 2017 as part of the \"Heartland Extra\" add-on service. RFD TV is also available as part of the 'Live A Little' package offered by DirecTV Now. With an average of 136,000 viewers in 2016, RFD-TV has some of the highest viewership relative to availability compared to other \"ultra-niche\" networks with similar or wider distribution owned by major corporations.\n\nRFD-TV is the flagship network for Rural Media Group. Launched in December 2000, RFD-TV is the nation’s first 24-hour television network featuring programming focused on the agribusiness, equine and the rural lifestyle, along with traditional country music and entertainment. \n\nAs of 2017, RFD-TV operates on a full-service format. Mornings and the early part of daytime feature syndicated newsmagazines and a five-hour block of news, weather (forecasting services on the network are outsourced to The Weather Channel) and agricultural commodity market prices, in the basic format of an American cable news outlet. An additional newscast airs during the evening hours. The remainder of the daytime and evening schedule consists of horse-related magazines, coverage of rodeo and other Western sports, rural lifestyle programs, reruns of classic television programs with rural appeal, and music programs centered around country music, polka and Southern gospel.\n\nInfomercials, which were previously publicly banned from the network, appear during the overnight hours. The network also features brokered programming in the form of its call-in program \"Rural America Live\".\n\nRFD-HD is a high definition feed of RFD-TV that broadcasts in the 1080i resolution format. Instead of simulcasting RFD-TV, the HD feed maintains its own independent programming schedule. The channel first began broadcasting in high definition in the fall of 2007.\n\nWhen Don Imus returned to radio in late 2007, following his firing by WFAN radio in New York City after being accused of making misogynistic and racially insensitive comments about African American players on the Rutgers University college basketball team, Imus had also struck a deal to simulcast \"Imus in the Morning\" on RFD-TV. The program was broadcast on the channel from 6 to 9 a.m. Eastern Time on weekdays, along with a primetime telecast of the program on its high definition simulcast channel RFD-HD. During much of the show's run, a news ticker was shown with the day's news, similar to that featuring when \"Imus in the Morning\" was simulcast on MSNBC. The video simulcast of the program ended its run on RFD-TV on August 28, 2009, and moved to Fox Business Network several weeks later.\n\nOne of the very first programs to be aired on RFD-TV was \"The Big Joe Polka Show\", a polka and dance variety program hosted by Omaha resident Joseph \"Big Joe\" Siedlik, which continued to be popular among the network's estimated (approximately) 40 million+ available households until it ended its run on January 1, 2011. In 2010, litigation commenced between RFD-TV and \"The Big Joe Polka Show\"s creators/producers of Polka Cassettes of Nebraska, involving several lawsuits and countersuits (mostly over a contractual dispute). RFD-TV contends that it had an option to air the program until December 31, 2010, while Polka Cassettes of Nebraska contends that the show was being aired against their wishes, and after cessation of the effectiveness of the previous contract, which expired on December 31, 2009. In August 2010, a multimillion-dollar \"slander and defamation\" suit was brought against Polka Cassettes of Nebraska by RFD-TV. In 2011, the court granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment and dismissed RFD-TV's lawsuit as being without merit. In January 2015, Joseph \"Big Joe\" Siedlik died.\n\nThe show was replaced by \"The RFD-TV Polka Fest\" on January 5, 2011, and aired during the same timeslots. \"RFD-TV Polka Fest\" was later replaced by \"Mollie B Polka Party\", hosted by Mollie Busta in July 2011. Wednesday afternoons, starting in September 2015 featured selected reruns of the \"Big Joe Polka Show\" under the name \"Big Joe Polka Classics'\n\nOther programs added in Winter 2007-2008 included a revival of \"Crook & Chase\" (which returned to TNN (now Heartland) upon its relaunch in 2012) and \"Bluegrass & Backroads\".\n\n\nThe following programs were aired on RFD-TV at one point, but are no longer listed on the official website.\n"}
{"id": "41177389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41177389", "title": "Room 13 International", "text": "Room 13 International\n\nRoom 13 International is a network of arts studios in primary schools worldwide. Each studio is run by the students as a self-sufficient business. The network is named after the first such studio, which operated in Room 13 in the Caol Primary School in Fort William, Scotland.\n\nAs of 2012, the network consists of over 80 studios around the globe.\n\nThe first studio in Room 13 of the Caol Primary School in Fort William, Scotland was started by Rob Fairley, an Artist-in-residence, and his students, in 1994.\n\nIn 2003, Room 13 won a £200,000 award from NESTA to expand the project into other schools. By 2005, Room 13 Caol had become the global headquarters for a network of 10 Room 13 studios in the United Kingdom, Nepal, South Africa and Dunedin, New Zealand.\n\nhttps://www.odt.co.nz/lifestyle/magazine/space-create\n\n"}
{"id": "4197690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4197690", "title": "Royal Corps of Halberdiers", "text": "Royal Corps of Halberdiers\n\nThe Royal Corps of Halberdiers is a fictional British regiment from Evelyn Waugh's \"Sword of Honour\" trilogy. In the novel, the regiment is described as being composed of four battalions: The 1st (Regular Infantry) 2nd (Territorial Army), 3rd (Commandos), and 4th (Militia). The Corps is derived from Waugh's own experiences in the Royal Marines throughout World War II. \n\nThe Halberdiers are commanded by an officer called a 'Captain-Commandant' — a rank derived from the Corps's purported origins as the \"Earl Of Essex's Honourable Company Of Free Halberdiers\" during the reign of Elizabeth I (the halberd being a popular heavy infantry weapon of the time). The rank is analogous with Colonel.\n\nThe Colonel-in-Chief of the Regiment since 1902 was the Grand-Duchess Elena of Russia. The nicknames of the Regiment were the \"Applejacks\", after an account of the Corps in an orchard during the Napoleonic Wars repelling a French attack by hurling apples at them, and the \"Copper Heels\". \n"}
{"id": "1913558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913558", "title": "Script doctor", "text": "Script doctor\n\nA script doctor is a writer or playwright hired by a film, television or theatre production to rewrite an existing script or polish specific aspects of it, including structure, characterization, dialogue, pacing, themes and other elements.\n\nScript doctors generally do their work uncredited for a variety of commercial and artistic reasons. They are usually brought in for scripts that have been almost \"green-lit\" during the development and pre-production phases of a film to address specific issues with the script, as identified by the financiers, production team, and cast.\n\nTo receive credit, the Writers Guild of America screenwriting credit system requires a screenwriter to contribute more than 50 percent of an original screenplay or 33 percent of an adaptation to receive credit. Uncredited screenwriters are not eligible to win the Academy Award or the Writers Guild of America Award.\n\nA script doctor should be distinguished from a script consultant.\n\nMany screenwriters have done uncredited work on screenplays:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32481043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32481043", "title": "Skill-based theories of second-language acquisition", "text": "Skill-based theories of second-language acquisition\n\nSkill-based theories of second-language acquisition are theories of second-language acquisition based on models of skill acquisition in cognitive psychology. These theories conceive of second-language acquisition as being learned in the same way as any other skill, such as learning to drive a car or play the piano. That is, they see practice as the key ingredient of language acquisition. The most well-known of these theories is based on John Anderson's adaptive control of thought model.\n\nThe adaptive control of thought model assumes a distinction between declarative knowledge, knowledge that is conscious and consists of facts, and procedural knowledge, knowledge of how an activity is done. In this model, skill acquisition is seen as a progression from declarative to procedural knowledge. Adaptive control of thought is a general model of cognition, and second-language acquisition is just one application of a wide area of research in cognitive psychology. Second-language acquisition is seen as a progression through three stages, declarative, procedural, and autonomous.\n\n"}
{"id": "40112271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40112271", "title": "Tabaré (poem)", "text": "Tabaré (poem)\n\nTabaré is an epic poem written by Uruguayan poet Juan Zorrilla de San Martín. \n\nWritten in 1886, it was published for the first time in 1888. The poem comprises 4736 verses divided into 10 cantos. The love story between the aboriginal Tabaré and the Spaniard Blanca is a metaphor of the fate of the Charrúa people who originally inhabited the Banda Oriental.\n\n"}
{"id": "13413336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13413336", "title": "Tagalog phonology", "text": "Tagalog phonology\n\nThis article deals with current phonology and phonetics and with historical developments of the phonology of the Tagalog language, including variants.\n\nTagalog has allophones, so it is important here to distinguish phonemes (written in slashes / /) and corresponding allophones (written in brackets [ ]).\n\nStress, coupled with glottalization, is a distinctive feature in Tagalog. Primary stress or the default position occurs on either the final or the penultimate syllable of a word. Vowel lengthening accompanies primary or secondary stress except when stress occurs at the end of a word.\n\nTagalog words are often distinguished from one another by the position of the stress and the presence of the glottal stop. In general, there are four types of phonetic emphases, which are, in formal or academic settings, indicated by a diacritic (\"tuldík\") above the vowel. The penultimate primary stress position (\"malumay\") is the default stress type and so is left unwritten except in dictionaries. The name of each stress type has its corresponding diacritic in the final vowel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58306941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58306941", "title": "Technology readiness level", "text": "Technology readiness level\n\nTechnology readiness levels (TRL) are a method of estimating technology maturity of Critical Technology Elements (CTE) of a program during the acquisition process. They are determined during a Technology Readiness Assessment (TRA) that examines program concepts, technology requirements, and demonstrated technology capabilities. TRL are based on a scale from 1 to 9 with 9 being the most mature technology. The use of TRLs enables consistent, uniform discussions of technical maturity across different types of technology. TRL has been in widespread use at NASA since the 1980s where it was originally invented. In 1999 the US Department of Defense was advised by GAO to use the scale for procurement which it did from the early 2000s. By 2008 the scale was also in use at the European Space Agency (ESA) as it is evidenced by their handbook. The European Commission advised EU-funded research and innovation projects to adopt the scale in 2010 which they did from 2014 in its Horizon 2020 program. In 2013 TRL was further canonized by the ISO 16290:2013 standard. A comprehensive approach and discussion about TRLs has been published by the European Association of Research and Technology Organisations (EARTO). Extensive criticism of the adoption of TRL scale by the European Union was published in The Innovation Journal, in that \"concreteness and sophistication of the TRL scale gradually diminished as its usage spread outside its original context (space programs)\".\n\nTechnology Readiness Levels were originally conceived at NASA in 1974 and formally defined in 1989. The original definition included seven levels, but in the 1990s NASA adopted the current nine-level scale that subsequently gained widespread acceptance.\n\nOriginal NASA TRL Definitions (1989)\n\nThe TRL methodology was originated by Stan Sadin at NASA Headquarters in 1974. At that time, Ray Chase was the JPL Propulsion Division representative on the Jupiter Orbiter design team. At the suggestion of Stan Sadin, Mr Chase used this methodology to assess the technology readiness of the proposed JPL Jupiter Orbiter spacecraft design. Later Mr Chase spent a year at NASA Headquarters helping Mr Sadin institutionalize the TRL methodology. Mr Chase joined ANSER in 1978, where he used the TRL methodology to evaluate the technology readiness of proposed Air Force development programs. He published several articles during the 1980s and 90s on reusable launch vehicles utilizing the TRL methodology. These documented an expanded version of the methodology that included design tools, test facilities, and manufacturing readiness on the Air Force Have Not program. The Have Not program manager, Greg Jenkins, and Ray Chase published the expanded version of the TRL methodology, which included design and manufacturing. Leon McKinney and Mr Chase used the expanded version to assess the technology readiness of the ANSER team's Highly Reusable Space Transportation (\"HRST\") concept. ANSER also created an adapted version of the TRL methodology for proposed Homeland Security Agency programs.\n\nThe United States Air Force adopted the use of Technology Readiness Levels in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1995, John C. Mankins, NASA, wrote a paper that discussed NASA's use of TRLs and proposed expanded descriptions for each TRL. In 1999, the United States General Accounting Office produced an influential report that examined the differences in technology transition between the DOD and private industry. It concluded that the DOD takes greater risks and attempts to transition emerging technologies at lesser degrees of maturity than does private industry. The GAO concluded that use of immature technology increased overall program risk. The GAO recommended that the DOD make wider use of Technology Readiness Levels as a means of assessing technology maturity prior to transition. In 2001, the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Science and Technology issued a memorandum that endorsed use of TRLs in new major programs. Guidance for assessing technology maturity was incorporated into the \"Defense Acquisition Guidebook\". Subsequently, the DOD developed detailed guidance for using TRLs in the 2003 DOD Technology Readiness Assessment Deskbook.\n\nThe European Space Agency adopted the TRL scale in the mid-2000s. Its handbook closely follows the NASA definition of TRLs. The universal usage of TRL in EU policy was proposed in the final report of the first High Level Expert Group on Key Enabling Technologies, and it was indeed implemented in the subsequent EU framework program, called H2020, running from 2013 to 2020. This means not only space and weapons programs, but everything from nanotechnology to informatics and communication technology.\n\nA \"Technology Readiness Level Calculator\" was developed by the United States Air Force. This tool is a standard set of questions implemented in Microsoft Excel that produces a graphical display of the TRLs achieved. This tool is intended to provide a snapshot of technology maturity at a given point in time.\n\nThe \"Technology Program Management Model\" was developed by the United States Army. The TPMM is a TRL-gated high-fidelity activity model that provides a flexible management tool to assist Technology Managers in planning, managing, and assessing their technologies for successful technology transition. The model provides a core set of activities including systems engineering and program management tasks that are tailored to the technology development and management goals. This approach is comprehensive, yet it consolidates the complex activities that are relevant to the development and transition of a specific technology program into one integrated model.\n\nThe primary purpose of using technology readiness levels is to help management in making decisions concerning the development and transitioning of technology. It should be viewed as one of several tools that are needed to manage the progress of research and development activity within an organization.\n\nAmong the advantages of TRLs:\n\n\nSome of the characteristics of TRLs that limit their utility:\n\n\nCurrent TRL models tend to disregard negative and obsolescence factors. There have been suggestions made for incorporating such factors into assessments.\n\nFor complex technologies that incorporate various development stages, a more detailed scheme called the Technology Readiness Pathway Matrix has been developed going from basic units to applications in society. This tool aims to show that a readiness level of a technology is based on a less linear process but on a more complex pathway through its application in society.. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3924960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3924960", "title": "The Revenge of the Shadow King", "text": "The Revenge of the Shadow King\n\nThe Revenge of the Shadow King is the first volume of three books in the Grey Griffins series written in collaborative writing by American authors Derek Benz and J.S. Lewis, and published by Orchard Books, an imprint of Scholastic Inc. The book follows the story of four friends who form The Order of the Grey Griffin.\n\nPaula Brehm-Heeger - VOYA said that the book will find a home in the hearts of teenage readers and those who love Dungeons and Dragons.\n\n"}
