{"id": "35655762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35655762", "title": "Ahmed al-Gizawi", "text": "Ahmed al-Gizawi\n\nAhmed al-Gizawi (), also known as Ahmed Mohammed Tharwat Al-Sayyid, is an Egyptian human rights lawyer and activist. His arrest in Saudi Arabia in April 2012 caused heavy protests in Egypt.\n\nOn 17 April 2012, al-Gizawi was detained shortly after his arrival in Saudi Arabia, which some believe was because he had filed a lawsuit in a South Cairo court against Saudi monarch King Abdullah Bin Abdel Aziz Al-Saud on behalf of Egyptian citizens held without charge in Saudi prisons. According to al-Gizawi's wife, he had arrived for a pilgrimage, not knowing he had been sentenced \"in absentia\" to a year in prison and 20 lashes for insulting the king. \n\nHowever, Ahmed Kattan, the Saudi Ambassador to Egypt, in a statement released by the Saudi Embassy, said \"The whole story is a complete fabrication.\" Kattan added, \"No Saudi court has passed a sentence or one of flogging against the detained Egyptian ...\" He also said \"Saudi laws and regulations do not permit the authorities to put a non-Saudi citizen on trial in absentia for acts committed outside its territory.\" \n\nSaudi officials said that al-Gizawi had been arrested at the King Abdulaziz International Airport near Jeddah on 17 April for possession of 21,000 Xanax anti-anxiety pills, which are banned in the country. They expressed doubt that he intended to go on a pilgrimage (Umrah), as he was not wearing the typical white pilgrim dress (Ihram). \n\nProtesting al-Gizawi's detention, around 1,000 Egyptians demonstrated in front of the Saudi embassy in Cairo on 27 April, demanding release of al-Gizawi and of the other Egyptians held in Saudi jails. Following the protests, Saudi authorities announced the closure of the Saudi embassy and other consulates in Egypt. Egypt's head of military council, Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, said he was working to heal the rift with Saudi Arabia over the surprise Saudi decision. Many observers said that it is the worst falling-out between the two countries since Saudi Arabia severed ties after Egypt signed a peace deal with Israel in 1979. A Saudi spokesperson said threats to the Saudi embassy in Cairo had led to the suspension of diplomatic and consular services for Egyptian workers and Muslim pilgrims headed for Islam's holiest sites, located in western Saudi Arabia.\n"}
{"id": "1921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921", "title": "Al-Qaeda", "text": "Al-Qaeda\n\nAl-Qaeda (; ', , translation: \"The Base\", \"The Foundation\" or \"The Fundament\" and alternatively spelled al-Qaida, al-Qæda and sometimes al-Qa'ida) is a militant Sunni Islamist multi-national organization founded in 1988 by Osama bin Laden, Abdullah Azzam, and several other Arab volunteers during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.\n\nAl-Qaeda operates as a network of Islamic extremists and Salafist jihadists. The organization has been designated as a terrorist group by the United Nations Security Council, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, India, and various other countries (see below). Al-Qaeda has mounted attacks on civilian and military targets in various countries, including the 1998 United States embassy bombings, the September 11 attacks, and the 2002 Bali bombings. The United States government responded to the September 11 attacks by launching the \"War on Terror\", which sought to undermine Al-Qaeda and its allies. The deaths of key leaders, including that of Osama bin Laden, have lead al-Qaeda's operations to shift from the organization and planning of attacks, to the planning of attacks which are carried out by associated groups and \"lone-wolf\" operators. Al-Qaeda characteristically employs attacks which include suicide attacks and the simultaneous bombing of several targets. Activities which are ascribed to Al-Qaeda involve the actions of those who have made a pledge of loyalty to bin Laden, or to the actions of \"al-Qaeda-linked\" individuals who have undergone training in one of its camps in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq or Sudan. Al-Qaeda ideologues envision the removal of all foreign influences in Muslim countries, and the creation of a new caliphate ruling over the entire Muslim world.\n\nAmong the beliefs ascribed to al-Qaeda members is the that a Christian–Jewish alliance is conspiring to destroy Islam. As Salafist jihadists, members of al-Qaeda believe that the killing of non-combatants is religiously sanctioned. This belief ignores the aspects of religious scripture which forbid the murder of non-combatants and internecine fighting. Al-Qaeda also opposes what it regards as man-made laws, and wants to replace them with a strict form of sharia law.\n\nAl-Qaeda has carried out many attacks on targets which it considers \"kafir\". Al-Qaeda is also responsible for instigating sectarian violence among Muslims. Al-Qaeda's leaders regard liberal Muslims, Shias, Sufis and other sects as heretical and its members and sympathizers have attacked their mosques and gatherings. Examples of sectarian attacks include the Yazidi community bombings, the Sadr City bombings, the Ashoura massacre and the April 2007 Baghdad bombings.\n\nFollowing the death of bin Laden in 2011, the group has been led by Egyptian Ayman al-Zawahiri.\n\nAl-Qaeda's philosophy calls for the centralization of decision making, while allowing for the decentralization of execution. However, after the War on Terror, al-Qaeda's leadership has become isolated. As a result, the leadership has become decentralized, and the organization has become regionalized into several al-Qaeda groups.\n\nMany terrorism experts do not believe that the global jihadist movement is driven at every level by al-Qaeda's leadership. However, bin Laden held considerable ideological sway over some Muslim extremists before his death. Experts argue that al-Qaeda has fragmented into a number of disparate regional movements, and that these groups bear little connection with one another.\n\nThis view mirrors the account given by Osama bin Laden in his October 2001 interview with Tayseer Allouni:\n\n... this matter isn't about any specific person and... is not about the al-Qa'idah Organization. We are the children of an Islamic Nation, with Prophet Muhammad as its leader, our Lord is one... and all the true believers [mu'mineen] are brothers. So the situation isn't like the West portrays it, that there is an 'organization' with a specific name (such as 'al-Qa'idah') and so on. That particular name is very old. It was born without any intention from us. Brother Abu Ubaida... created a military base to train the young men to fight against the vicious, arrogant, brutal, terrorizing Soviet empire... So this place was called 'The Base' ['Al-Qa'idah'], as in a training base, so this name grew and became. We aren't separated from this nation. We are the children of a nation, and we are an inseparable part of it, and from those public *** which spread from the far east, from the Philippines, to Indonesia, to Malaysia, to India, to Pakistan, reaching Mauritania... and so we discuss the conscience of this nation.\n\nBruce Hoffman, however, sees al-Qaeda as a cohesive network that is strongly led from the Pakistani tribal areas.\n\nAl-Qaeda has the following direct affiliates:\n\n\nAl-Qaeda's indirect affiliates includes the following, some of which have left the organization and joined the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant:\n\nOsama bin Laden was the Senior Operations Chief of al-Qaeda prior to his assassination on May 1, 2011, by US forces. Atiyah Abd al-Rahman was alleged to be second in command prior to his death on August 22, 2011.\n\nBin Laden was advised by a Shura Council, which consists of senior al-Qaeda members. The group was estimated to consist of 20–30 people. One such member is thought to have been Sayed Tayib al-Madani.\n\nAyman al-Zawahiri had been al-Qaeda's Deputy Operations Chief and assumed the role of commander after bin Laden's death. Al-Zawahiri replaced Saif al-Adel, who had served as interim commander.\n\nOn June 5, 2012, Pakistani intelligence officials announced that al-Rahman's alleged successor Abu Yahya al-Libi had been killed in Pakistan.\n\nNasir al-Wuhayshi was said to have become second in command in 2013. He was the leader of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), until he was killed in a US airstrike in June 2015.\n\nAl-Qaeda's network was built from scratch as a conspiratorial network which drew upon the leadership of a number of regional nodes. The organization divided itself into several committees, which include:\n\nAl-Qaeda is not operationally managed by Ayman al-Zawahiri. Several operational groups exist, which consult with the leadership in situations where attacks are in preparation.\n\nWhen asked in 2005 about the possibility of al-Qaeda's connection to the July 7, 2005 London bombings, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair said: \"Al-Qaeda is not an organization. Al-Qaeda is a way of working... but this has the hallmark of that approach... al-Qaeda clearly has the ability to provide training... to provide expertise... and I think that is what has occurred here.\" On August 13, 2005, \"The Independent\" newspaper, reported that the July 7 bombers had acted independently of an al-Qaeda terror mastermind.\n\nNasser al-Bahri, who was Osama bin Laden's bodyguard for four years in the run-up to 9/11 wrote in his memoir a highly detailed description of how the group functioned at that time. Al-Bahri described al-Qaeda's formal administrative structure and vast arsenal. However, author Adam Curtis argued that the idea of al-Qaeda as a formal organization is primarily an American invention. Curtis contended the name \"al-Qaeda\" was first brought to the attention of the public in the 2001 trial of bin Laden and the four men accused of the 1998 US embassy bombings in East Africa. Curtis wrote:\n\nThe reality was that bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri had become the focus of a loose association of disillusioned Islamist militants who were attracted by the new strategy. But there was no organization. These were militants who mostly planned their own operations and looked to bin Laden for funding and assistance. He was not their commander. There is also no evidence that bin Laden used the term \"al-Qaeda\" to refer to the name of a group until after September 11 attacks, when he realized that this was the term the Americans had given it.\n\nDuring the 2001 trial, the US Department of Justice needed to show that bin Laden was the leader of a criminal organization in order to charge him \"in absentia\" under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The name of the organization and details of its structure were provided in the testimony of Jamal al-Fadl, who said he was a founding member of the group and a former employee of bin Laden. Questions about the reliability of al-Fadl's testimony have been raised by a number of sources because of his history of dishonesty, and because he was delivering it as part of a plea bargain agreement after being convicted of conspiring to attack US military establishments. Sam Schmidt, a defense attorney who defended al-Fadl said:\n\nThere were selective portions of al-Fadl's testimony that I believe was false, to help support the picture that he helped the Americans join together. I think he lied in a number of specific testimony about a unified image of what this organization was. It made al-Qaeda the new Mafia or the new Communists. It made them identifiable as a group and therefore made it easier to prosecute any person associated with al-Qaeda for any acts or statements made by bin Laden.\n\nThe number of individuals in the group who have undergone proper military training, and are capable of commanding insurgent forces, is largely unknown. Documents captured in the raid on bin Laden's compound in 2011 show that the core al-Qaeda membership in 2002 was 170. In 2006, it was estimated that al-Qaeda had several thousand commanders embedded in 40 different countries. , it was believed that no more than 200–300 members were still active commanders.\n\nAccording to the 2004 BBC documentary \"The Power of Nightmares\", al-Qaeda was so weakly linked together that it was hard to say it existed apart from bin Laden and a small clique of close associates. The lack of any significant numbers of convicted al-Qaeda members, despite a large number of arrests on terrorism charges, was cited by the documentary as a reason to doubt whether a widespread entity that met the description of al-Qaeda existed.\n\nAccording to author Robert Cassidy, al-Qaeda maintains two separate forces which are deployed alongside insurgents in Iraq and Pakistan. The first, numbering in the tens of thousands, was \"organized, trained, and equipped as insurgent combat forces\" in the Soviet–Afghan war. The force was composed primarily of foreign \"mujahideen\" from Saudi Arabia and Yemen. Many of these fighters went on to fight in Bosnia and Somalia for global \"jihad\". Another group, which numbered 10,000 in 2006, live in the West and have received rudimentary combat training.\n\nOther analysts have described al-Qaeda's rank and file as being \"predominantly Arab\" in its first years of operation, but that the organization also includes \"other peoples\" . It has been estimated that 62% of al-Qaeda members have university education.\n\nIn the 1990s, financing for al-Qaeda came partly from the personal wealth of Osama bin Laden. Other sources of income included the heroin trade and donations from supporters in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and other Islamic Gulf states. A WikiLeaks-released 2009 memo from the US Secretary of State asserted that the primary source of funding of Sunni terrorist groups worldwide was Saudi Arabia.\n\nAmong the first pieces of evidence regarding Saudi Arabia's support for al-Qaeda was the so-called \"Golden Chain\", a list of early al-Qaeda funders seized during a 2002 raid in Sarajevo by Bosnian police. The hand-written list was validated by al-Qaeda defector Jamal al-Fadl, and included the names of both donors and beneficiaries. Osama bin-Laden's name appeared seven times among the beneficiaries, while 20 Saudi and Gulf-based businessmen and politicians were listed among the donors. Notable donors included Adel Batterjee, and Wael Hamza Julaidan. Batterjee was designated as a terror financier by the US Department of the Treasury in 2004, and Julaidan is recognized as one of al-Qaeda's founders.\n\nThe most prominent Saudis who supported al-Qaeda include Saudi billionaire Saleh Kamel, Sulaiman Abdul Aziz Al Rajhi and Ahmad Turki Yamani. Kamel served as CEO of Dallah Al-Baraka, and was accused of funding and supporting al-Qaeda operations. Rajhi was a founder of the SAAR Foundation, and was the CEO of Al-Rajhi Bank, where he was investigated several times by US authorities for his role in financing terrorism. Ahmad Turki Yamani was the son of a former Saudi Chief of Justice and former Saudi Minister of Petroleum. Saleh Kamel's case provides evidence to believe that Saudi Arabia is a state sponsor of al-Qaeda. Omar al-Bayoumi, who was associated with the 9/11 attacks, received a stipend from a financial group which Kamel directed. Further, Kamel invested in a Sudanese bank which held accounts under the names of senior al-Qaeda affiliates. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\", the Saudi al-Baraka Bank was also suspected of providing banking services to al-Qaeda operatives.\n\nDocuments seized during the 2002 Bosnia raid showed that al-Qaeda widely exploited charities to channel financial and material support to its operatives across the globe. Notably, this activity exploited the International Islamic Relief Organization (IIRO) and the Muslim World League (MWL). The IIRO had ties with al-Qaeda associates worldwide, including al-Qaeda's deputy Ayman al Zawahiri. Zawahiri's brother worked for the IIRO in Albania and had actively recruited on behalf of al-Qaeda. The MWL was openly identified by al-Qaeda's leader as one of the three charities al-Qaeda primarily relied upon for funding sources.\n\nSeveral Qatari citizens have been accused of funding al-Qaeda. This includes Abd Al-Rahman al-Nuaimi, a Qatari citizen and a human-rights activist who founded the Swiss-based non-governmental organization (NGO) Alkarama. On December 18, 2013, the US Treasury designated Nuaimi as a terrorist for his activities supporting al-Qaeda. The US Treasury has stated that Nuaimi \"has facilitated significant financial support to al-Qaeda in Iraq, and served as an interlocutor between al-Qaeda in Iraq and Qatar-based donors\".\n\nNuaimi was accused of overseeing a $2 million monthly transfer to al-Qaeda in Iraq as part of his role as mediator between Iraq-based al-Qaeda senior officers and Qatari citizens. Nuaimi allegedly entertained relationships with Abu-Khalid al-Suri, al-Qaeda's top envoy in Syria, who processed a $600,000 transfer to al-Qaeda in 2013. Nuaimi is also known to be associated with Abd al-Wahhab Muhammad 'Abd al-Rahman al-Humayqani, a Yemeni politician and founding member of Alkarama, who was listed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) by the US Treasury in 2013. The US authorities claimed that Humayqani exploited his role in Alkarama to fundraise on behalf of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). A prominent figure in AQAP, Nuaimi was also reported to have facilitated the flow of funding to AQAP affiliates based in Yemen. Nuaimi was also accused of investing funds in the charity directed by Humayqani to ultimately fund AQAP. About ten months after being sanctioned by the US Treasury, Nuaimi was also restrained from doing business in the UK.\n\nAnother Qatari citizen, Kalifa Mohammed Turki Subayi, was sanctioned by the US Treasury on June 5, 2008, for his activities as a \"Gulf-based al-Qaeda financier\". Subayi's name was added to the UN Security Council's Sanctions List in 2008 on charges of providing financial and material support to al-Qaeda senior leadership. Subayi allegedly moved al-Qaeda recruits to South Asia-based training camps. He also financially supported Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, a Pakistani national and senior al-Qaeda officer who is believed to be the mastermind behind the September 11 attack according to the September 11 Commission report.\n\nQataris provided support to al-Qaeda through the country's largest NGO, the Qatar Charity. Al-Qaeda defector al-Fadl, who was a former member of Qatar Charity, testified in court that Abdullah Mohammed Yusef, who served as Qatar Charity's director, was affiliated to al-Qaeda and simultaneously to the National Islamic Front, a political group that gave al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden harbor in Sudan in the early 1990s.\n\nLegal proceedings from the trial \"United States vs. Enaam M. Arnaout\" revealed that Qatar Charity was cited by Bin Laden in 1993 as one of the charities used to channel financial support to al-Qaeda operatives overseas. The same documents also report Bin Laden's complaint that the failed assassination attempt of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak had compromised the ability of al-Qaeda to exploit charities to support its operatives to the extent that it was capable of before 1995.\nQatar Charity's track record of terror financing includes support to members of al-Qaeda in Chechnya. This accusation was publicly denied by Hamad bin Nasser al-Thani. Qatar Charity is among the NGOs allegedly channelling funds to Ansar Dine in North Mali, according to French military intelligence reports from France's intervention in the country in early 2013.\n\nQatar finances al-Qaeda's enterprises through al-Qaeda's affiliate in Syria, Jabhat al-Nusra. The funding is primarily channeled through kidnapping for ransom. The Consortium Against Terrorist Finance (CATF) reported that the Gulf country has funded al-Nusra since 2013. Al-Awsat estimated that Qatar disbursed $25 million in support of al-Nusra through kidnapping for ransom. In addition, Qatar has launched fundraising campaigns on behalf of al-Nusra. Al-Nusra acknowledged a Qatar-sponsored campaign \"as one of the preferred conduits for donations intended for the group\".\n\nOn March 11, 2005, \"Al-Quds Al-Arabi\" published extracts from Saif al-Adel's document \"Al Qaeda's Strategy to the Year 2020\". Abdel Bari Atwan summarizes this strategy as comprising five stages to rid the Ummah from all forms of oppression:\n\nAtwan noted that, while the plan is unrealistic, \"it is sobering to consider that this virtually describes the downfall of the Soviet Union.\"\n\nAccording to Fouad Hussein, a Jordanian journalist and author who has spent time in prison with Al-Zarqawi, Al Qaeda's strategy consists of seven phases and is similar to the plan described in Al Qaeda's Strategy to the year 2020. These phases include:\n\nAccording to the seven-phase strategy, the war is projected to last less than two years.\n\nAccording to Charles Lister of the Middle East Institute and Katherine Zimmerman of the American Enterprise Institute, the new model of al-Qaeda is to \"socialize communities\" and build a broad territorial base of operations with the support of local communities, also gaining income independent of the funding of sheiks.\n\nThe English name of the organization is a simplified transliteration of the Arabic noun \"\" (), which means \"the foundation\" or \"the base\". The initial \"al-\" is the Arabic definite article \"the\", hence \"the base\".\n\nIn Arabic, \"al-Qaeda\" has four syllables (). However, since two of the Arabic consonants in the name are not phones found in the English language, the common naturalized English pronunciations include , and . Al-Qaeda's name can also be transliterated as \"al-Qaida\", \"al-Qa'ida\", or \"el-Qaida\".\n\nBin Laden explained the origin of the term in a videotaped interview with Al Jazeera journalist Tayseer Alouni in October 2001:\nThe name 'al-Qaeda' was established a long time ago by mere chance. The late Abu Ebeida El-Banashiri established the training camps for our \"mujahedeen\" against Russia's terrorism. We used to call the training camp al-Qaeda. The name stayed.\n\nIt has been argued that two documents seized from the Sarajevo office of the Benevolence International Foundation prove that the name was not simply adopted by the \"mujahideen\" movement and that a group called al-Qaeda was established in August 1988. Both of these documents contain minutes of meetings held to establish a new military group, and contain the term \"al-Qaeda\".\n\nFormer British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook wrote that the word al-Qaeda should be translated as \"the database\", because it originally referred to the computer file of the thousands of \"mujahideen\" militants who were recruited and trained with CIA help to defeat the Russians. In April 2002, the group assumed the name \"Qa'idat al-Jihad\" ( \"\"), which means \"the base of Jihad\". According to Diaa Rashwan, this was \"apparently as a result of the merger of the overseas branch of Egypt's al-Jihad, which was led by Ayman al-Zawahiri, with the groups Bin Laden brought under his control after his return to Afghanistan in the mid-1990s.\"\n\nThe radical Islamist movement developed during the Islamic revival and the rise of the Islamist movement after the Iranian revolution.\n\nSome have argued that the writings of Islamic author and thinker Sayyid Qutb, inspired the al-Qaeda organization. In the 1950s and 1960s, Qutb preached that because of the lack of \"sharia\" law, the Muslim world was no longer Muslim, and had reverted to the pre-Islamic ignorance known as \"jahiliyyah\". To restore Islam, Qutb argued that a vanguard of righteous Muslims was needed in order to establish \"true Islamic states\", implement \"sharia\", and rid the Muslim world of any non-Muslim influences. In Qutb's view, the enemies of Islam included \"world Jewry\", which \"plotted conspiracies\" and opposed Islam.\n\nIn the words of Mohammed Jamal Khalifa, a close college friend of bin Laden: Islam is different from any other religion; it's a way of life. We [Khalifa and bin Laden] were trying to understand what Islam has to say about how we eat, who we marry, how we talk. We read Sayyid Qutb. He was the one who most affected our generation.\n\nQutb also influenced bin Laden's mentor, Ayman al-Zawahiri. Zawahiri's uncle and maternal family patriarch, Mafouz Azzam, was Qutb's student, protégé, personal lawyer, and an executor of his estate. Azzam was one of the last people to see Qutb alive before his execution. Zawahiri paid homage to Qutb in his work \"Knights under the Prophet's Banner.\"\n\nQutb's argued that many Muslims were not true Muslims. Some Muslims, Qutb argued, were apostates. These alleged apostates included leaders of Muslim countries, since they failed to enforce \"sharia\" law.\n\nThe Afghan jihad against the pro-Soviet government further developed the Salafist Jihadist movement which inspired Al-Qaeda.\n\nAbdel Bari Atwan wrote that:\n\n\"The Guardian\" in 2009 described five distinct phases in the development of al-Qaeda: its beginnings in the late 1980s, a \"wilderness\" period in 1990–1996, its \"heyday\" in 1996–2001, a network period from 2001 to 2005, and a period of fragmentation from 2005 to 2009.\n\nThe origins of al-Qaeda can be traced to the Soviet War in Afghanistan (December 1979 – February 1989). The United States viewed the conflict in Afghanistan, in terms of the Cold War, with Marxists on one side and the native Afghan \"mujahideen\" on the other. This view lead to a CIA program called Operation Cyclone, which channeled funds through Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency to the Afghan Mujahideen. The US government provided substantial financial support to the Afghan Islamic militants. Aid to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, an Afghan \"mujahideen\" leader and founder of the Hezb-e Islami, amounted to more than $600 million. In addition to American aid, Hekmatyar was the recipient of Saudi aid. In the early 1990s, after the US had withdrawn support, Hekmatyar \"worked closely\" with bin Laden.\n\nAt the same time, a growing number of Arab \"mujahideen\" joined the \"jihad\" against the Afghan Marxist regime, which was facilitated by international Muslim organizations, particularly the Maktab al-Khidamat (MAK). In 1984, MAK was established in Peshawar, Pakistan, by bin Laden and Abdullah Yusuf Azzam, a Palestinian Islamic scholar and member of the Muslim Brotherhood. MAK organized guest houses in Peshawar, near the Afghan border, and gathered supplies for the construction of paramilitary training camps to prepare foreign recruits for the Afghan war front. MAK was funded by the Saudi government as well as by individual Muslims including Saudi businessmen. Bin Laden also became a major financier of the \"mujahideen\", spending his own money and using his connections to influence public opinion about the war.\n\nFrom 1986, MAK began to set up a network of recruiting offices in the US, the hub of which was the Al Kifah Refugee Center at the Farouq Mosque on Brooklyn's Atlantic Avenue. Among notable figures at the Brooklyn center were \"double agent\" Ali Mohamed, whom FBI special agent Jack Cloonan called \"bin Laden's first trainer\", and \"Blind Sheikh\" Omar Abdel-Rahman, a leading recruiter of \"mujahideen\" for Afghanistan. Azzam and bin Laden began to establish camps in Afghanistan in 1987.\n\nMAK and foreign \"mujahideen\" volunteers, or \"Afghan Arabs\", did not play a major role in the war. While over 250,000 Afghan \"mujahideen\" fought the Soviets and the communist Afghan government, it is estimated that were never more than 2,000 foreign \"mujahideen\" on the field at any one time. Nonetheless, foreign \"mujahideen\" volunteers came from 43 countries, and the total number that participated in the Afghan movement between 1982 and 1992 is reported to have been 35,000. Bin Laden played a central role in organizing training camps for the foreign Muslim volunteers.\n\nThe Soviet Union withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989. Mohammad Najibullah's Communist Afghan government lasted for three more years, before it was overrun by elements of the \"mujahideen\".\n\nToward the end of the Soviet military mission in Afghanistan, some foreign \"mujahideen\" wanted to expand their operations to include Islamist struggles in other parts of the world, such as Palestine and Kashmir. A number of overlapping and interrelated organizations were formed, to further those aspirations. One of these was the organization that would eventually be called al-Qaeda.\n\nResearch suggests that al-Qaeda was formed on August 11, 1988, when a meeting between leaders of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, Abdullah Azzam, and bin Laden took place. An agreement was reached to link bin Laden's money with the expertise of the Islamic Jihad organization and take up the jihadist cause elsewhere after the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan.\n\nNotes indicate al-Qaeda was a formal group by August 20, 1988. A list of requirements for membership itemized the following: listening ability, good manners, obedience, and making a pledge (\"bayat\" ) to follow one's superiors. In his memoir, bin Laden's former bodyguard, Nasser al-Bahri, gives the only publicly available description of the ritual of giving \"bayat\" when he swore his allegiance to the al-Qaeda chief. According to Wright, the group's real name wasn't used in public pronouncements because \"its existence was still a closely held secret.\"\n\nAfter Azzam was assassinated in 1989 and MAK broke up, significant numbers of MAK followers joined bin Laden's new organization.\n\nIn November 1989, Ali Mohamed, a former special forces sergeant stationed at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, left military service and moved to California. He traveled to Afghanistan and Pakistan and became \"deeply involved with bin Laden's plans.\" In 1991, Ali Mohammed is said to have helped orchestrate bin Laden's relocation to Sudan.\n\nFollowing the Soviet Union's withdrawal from Afghanistan in February 1989, bin Laden returned to Saudi Arabia. The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990 had put the Kingdom and its ruling House of Saud at risk. The world's most valuable oil fields were within striking distance of Iraqi forces in Kuwait, and Saddam's call to pan-Arab/Islamism could potentially rally internal dissent.\n\nIn the face of a seemingly massive Iraqi military presence, Saudi Arabia's own forces were outnumbered. Bin Laden offered the services of his \"mujahideen\" to King Fahd to protect Saudi Arabia from the Iraqi army. The Saudi monarch refused bin Laden's offer, opting instead to allow US and allied forces to deploy troops into Saudi territory.\n\nThe deployment angered bin Laden, as he believed the presence of foreign troops in the \"land of the two mosques\" (Mecca and Medina) profaned sacred soil. After speaking publicly against the Saudi government for harboring American troops, he was banished and forced to live in exile in Sudan.\n\nFrom around 1992 to 1996, al-Qaeda and bin Laden based themselves in Sudan at the invitation of Islamist theoretician Hassan al-Turabi. The move followed an Islamist coup d'état in Sudan, led by Colonel Omar al-Bashir, who professed a commitment to reordering Muslim political values. During this time, bin Laden assisted the Sudanese government, bought or set up various business enterprises, and established training camps.\n\nA key turning point for bin Laden, occurred in 1993 when Saudi Arabia gave support for the Oslo Accords. The Oslo Accords set a path for peace between Israel and Palestinians.\n\nIn 1993, a young schoolgirl was killed in an unsuccessful attempt on the life of the Egyptian prime minister, Atef Sedki. Egyptian public opinion turned against Islamist bombings, and the police arrested 280 of al-Jihad's members and executed 6.\n\nDue to bin Laden's continuous verbal assault on King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, on March 5, 1994, Fahd sent an emissary to Sudan demanding bin Laden's passport. Bin Laden's Saudi citizenship was also revoked. His family was persuaded to cut off his stipend, $7 million a year, and his Saudi assets were frozen. His family publicly disowned him. There is controversy as to what extent bin Laden continued to garner support from members afterwards.\n\nIn June 1995, an attempt to assassinate Egyptian president Mubarak led to the expulsion of Egyptian Islamic Jihad (EIJ), and in May 1996, of bin Laden from Sudan.\n\nAccording to Pakistani-American businessman Mansoor Ijaz, the Sudanese government offered the Clinton Administration numerous opportunities to arrest bin Laden. Ijaz's claims appeared in numerous op-ed pieces, including one in the \"Los Angeles Times\" and one in \"The Washington Post\" co-written with former Ambassador to Sudan Timothy M. Carney. Similar allegations have been made by \"Vanity Fair\" contributing editor David Rose, and Richard Miniter, author of \"Losing bin Laden\", in a November 2003 interview with \"World\".\n\nSeveral sources dispute Ijaz's claim, including the 9/11 Commission, which concluded in part: Sudan's minister of defense, Fatih Erwa, has claimed that Sudan offered to hand Bin Ladin over to the US. The Commission has found no credible evidence that this was so. Ambassador Carney had instructions only to push the Sudanese to expel Bin Ladin. Ambassador Carney had no legal basis to ask for more from the Sudanese since, at the time, there was no indictment out-standing.\n\nAfter the fall of the Afghan communist regime in 1992, Afghanistan was effectively ungoverned for four years and plagued by constant infighting between various \"mujahideen\" groups. This situation allowed the Taliban to organize. The Taliban also garnered support from graduates of Islamic schools, which are called \"madrassa\". According to Ahmed Rashid, five leaders of the Taliban were graduates of Darul Uloom Haqqania, a madrassa in the small town of Akora Khattak. The town is situated near Peshawar in Pakistan, but the school is largely attended by Afghan refugees. This institution reflected Salafi beliefs in its teachings, and much of its funding came from private donations from wealthy Arabs. Four of the Taliban's leaders attended a similarly funded and influenced madrassa in Kandahar. Bin Laden's contacts were laundering donations to these schools, and Islamic banks were used to transfer money to an \"array\" of charities which served as front groups for al-Qaeda.\n\nMany of the \"mujahideen\" who later joined the Taliban fought alongside Afghan warlord Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi's Harkat i Inqilabi group at the time of the Russian invasion. This group also enjoyed the loyalty of most Afghan Arab fighters.\n\nThe continuing lawlessness enabled the growing and well-disciplined Taliban to expand their control over territory in Afghanistan, and it came to establish an enclave which it called the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. In 1994, it captured the regional center of Kandahar, and after making rapid territorial gains thereafter, the Taliban captured the capital city Kabul in September 1996.\n\nIn 1996, Taliban-controlled Afghanistan provided a perfect staging ground for al-Qaeda. While not officially working together, Al-Qaeda enjoyed the Taliban's protection and supported the regime in such a strong symbiotic relationship that many Western observers dubbed the Taliban's Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan as, “the world’s first terrorist-sponsored state.” However, at this time, only Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates recognized the Taliban as the legitimate government of Afghanistan.\n\nWhile in Afghanistan, the Taliban government tasked al-Qaeda with the training of Brigade 055, an elite element of the Taliban's army. The Brigade mostly consisted of foreign fighters, veterans from the Soviet Invasion, and adherents to the ideology of the mujahideen. In November 2001, as Operation Enduring Freedom had toppled the Taliban government, many Brigade 055 fighters were captured or killed, and those that survived were thought to have escaped into Pakistan along with bin Laden.\n\nBy the end of 2008, some sources reported that the Taliban had severed any remaining ties with al-Qaeda, however, there is reason to doubt this. According to senior US military intelligence officials, there were fewer than 100 members of al-Qaeda remaining in Afghanistan in 2009.\n\nIn 1994, the Salafi groups waging Salafi jihadism in Bosnia entered into decline, and groups such as the Egyptian Islamic Jihad began to drift away from the Salafi cause in Europe. Al-Qaeda stepped in and assumed control of around 80% of the terrorist cells in Bosnia in late 1995. At the same time, al-Qaeda ideologues instructed the network's recruiters to look for \"Jihadi international\" Muslims who believed that extremist-\"jihad\" must be fought on a global level. Al-Qaeda also sought to open the \"offensive phase\" of the global Salafi \"jihad\". Bosnian Islamists in 2006 called for \"solidarity with Islamic causes around the world\", supporting the insurgents in Kashmir and Iraq as well as the groups fighting for a Palestinian state.\n\nIn 1996, al-Qaeda announced its \"jihad\" to expel foreign troops and interests from what they considered Islamic lands. Bin Laden issued a \"fatwa\", which amounted to a public declaration of war against the US and its allies, and began to refocus al-Qaeda's resources on large-scale, propagandist strikes.\n\nOn February 23, 1998, bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, a leader of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, along with three other Islamist leaders, co-signed and issued a \"fatwa\" calling on Muslims to kill Americans and their allies. Under the banner of the World Islamic Front for Combat Against the Jews and Crusaders, they declared:\n\n[T]he ruling to kill the Americans and their allies – civilians and military – is an individual duty for every Muslim who can do it in any country in which it is possible to do it, in order to liberate the al-Aqsa Mosque [in Jerusalem] and the holy mosque [in Mecca] from their grip, and in order for their armies to move out of all the lands of Islam, defeated and unable to threaten any Muslim. This is in accordance with the words of Almighty Allah, 'and fight the pagans all together as they fight you all together,' and 'fight them until there is no more tumult or oppression, and there prevail justice and faith in Allah'.\n\nNeither bin Laden nor al-Zawahiri possessed the traditional Islamic scholarly qualifications to issue a \"fatwa\". However, they rejected the authority of the contemporary \"ulema\" (which they saw as the paid servants of \"jahiliyya\" rulers), and took it upon themselves.\n\nAl-Qaeda has launched attacks against the Iraqi Shia majority in an attempt to incite sectarian violence. Al-Zarqawi purportedly declared an all-out war on Shiites while claiming responsibility for Shiite mosque bombings. The same month, a statement claiming to be from Al-Qaeda in Iraq was rejected as a \"fake\". In a December 2007 video, al-Zawahiri defended the Islamic State in Iraq, but distanced himself from the attacks against civilians, which he deemed to be perpetrated by \"hypocrites and traitors existing among the ranks\".\n\nUS and Iraqi officials accused Al-Qaeda in Iraq of trying to slide Iraq into a full-scale civil war between Iraq's Shiite population and Sunni Arabs. This was done through an orchestrated campaign of civilian massacres and a number of provocative attacks against high-profile religious targets. With attacks including the 2003 Imam Ali Mosque bombing, the 2004 Day of Ashura and Karbala and Najaf bombings, the 2006 first al-Askari Mosque bombing in Samarra, the deadly single-day series of bombings in which at least 215 people were killed in Baghdad's Shiite district of Sadr City, and the second al-Askari bombing in 2007, Al-Qaeda in Iraq provoked Shiite militias to unleash a wave of retaliatory attacks, resulting in death squad-style killings and further sectarian violence which escalated in 2006. In 2008, sectarian bombings blamed on al-Qaeda in Iraq killed at least 42 people at the Imam Husayn Shrine in Karbala in March, and at least 51 people at a bus stop in Baghdad in June.\n\nIn February 2014, after a prolonged dispute with al-Qaeda in Iraq's successor organisation, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS), al-Qaeda publicly announced it was cutting all ties with the group, reportedly for its brutality and \"notorious intractability\".\n\nIn Somalia, al-Qaeda agents had been collaborating closely with its Somali wing, which was created from the al-Shabaab group. In February 2012, al-Shabaab officially joined al-Qaeda, declaring loyalty in a video. Somalian al-Qaeda recruited children for suicide-bomber training, recruited young people to participate in militant actions against Americans.\n\nThe percentage of terrorist attacks in the West originating from the Afghanistan–Pakistan (AfPak) border declined starting in 2007, as al-Qaeda shifted to Somalia and Yemen. While al-Qaeda leaders were hiding in the tribal areas along the AfPak border, middle-tier leaders heightened activity in Somalia and Yemen.\n\nIn January 2009, al-Qaeda's division in Saudi Arabia merged with its Yemeni wing to form al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). Centered in Yemen, the group takes advantage of the country's poor economy, demography and domestic security. In August 2009, the group made an assassination attempt against a member of the Saudi royal family. President Obama asked Ali Abdullah Saleh to ensure closer cooperation with the US in the struggle against the growing activity of al-Qaeda in Yemen, and promised to send additional aid. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, drew US attention from Somalia and Yemen. In December 2011, US Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta said that the US operations against al-Qaeda \"are now concentrating on key groups in Yemen, Somalia and North Africa.\" Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula claimed responsibility for the 2009 bombing attack on Northwest Airlines Flight 253 by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab. The AQAP declared the Al-Qaeda Emirate in Yemen in March 31, 2011, after capturing the most of the Abyan Governorate.\n\nAs the Saudi-led military intervention in Yemen escalated in July 2015, 50 civilians were killed, and 20 million were in need of aid. In February 2016, al-Qaeda forces and Saudi Arabian-led coalition forces were both seen fighting Houthi rebels in the same battle. In August 2018, \"Al Jazeera\" reported that \"A military coalition battling Houthi rebels secured secret deals with al-Qaeda in Yemen and recruited hundreds of the group's fighters. ... Key figures in the deal-making said the United States was aware of the arrangements and held off on drone attacks against the armed group, which was created by Osama bin Laden in 1988.\"\n\nIn December 1998, the Director of the CIA Counterterrorism Center reported to President Bill Clinton that al-Qaeda was preparing to launch attacks in the United States, and that the group was training personnel to hijack aircraft. On September 11, 2001, al-Qaeda attacked the United States, hijacking four airliners within the country and deliberately crashing two into the twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York City. The third plane crashed into the western side of the Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia. The fourth plane was crashed into a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. In total, the attackers killed 2,977 victims and injured more than 6,000 others.\n\nUS officials noted that Anwar al-Awlaki had considerable reach within the US. A former FBI agent identified Awlaki as a known \"senior recruiter for al-Qaeda\", and a spiritual motivator. Awlaki's sermons in the US were attended by three of the 9/11 hijackers, and accused Fort Hood shooter Nidal Malik Hasan. US intelligence intercepted emails from Hasan to Awlaki between December 2008 and early 2009. On his website, Awlaki has praised Hasan's actions in the Fort Hood shooting.\n\nAn unnamed official claimed there was good reason to believe Awlaki \"has been involved in very serious terrorist activities since leaving the US [in 2002], including plotting attacks against America and our allies.\" US President Barack Obama approved the targeted killing of al-Awlaki by April 2010, making al-Awlaki the first US citizen ever placed on the CIA target list. That required the consent of the US National Security Council, and officials argued that the attack was appropriate because the individual posed an imminent danger to national security. In May 2010, Faisal Shahzad, who pleaded guilty to the 2010 Times Square car bombing attempt, told interrogators he was \"inspired by\" al-Awlaki, and sources said Shahzad had made contact with al-Awlaki over the Internet. Representative Jane Harman called him \"terrorist number one\", and \"Investor's Business Daily\" called him \"the world's most dangerous man\". In July 2010, the US Treasury Department added him to its list of Specially Designated Global Terrorists, and the UN added him to its list of individuals associated with al-Qaeda. In August 2010, al-Awlaki's father initiated a lawsuit against the US government with the American Civil Liberties Union, challenging its order to kill al-Awlaki. In October 2010, US and UK officials linked al-Awlaki to the 2010 cargo plane bomb plot. In September 2011, al-Awlaki was killed in a targeted killing drone attack in Yemen. On March 16, 2012, it was reported that Osama bin Laden plotted to kill US President Barack Obama.\n\nOn May 1, 2011, US President Barack Obama announced that Osama bin Laden had been killed by \"a small team of Americans\" acting under direct orders, in a covert operation in Abbottabad, Pakistan. The action took place north of Islamabad. According to US officials, a team of 20–25 US Navy SEALs under the command of the Joint Special Operations Command stormed bin Laden's compound with two helicopters. Bin Laden and those with him were killed during a firefight in which US forces experienced no casualties. According to one US official the attack was carried out without the knowledge or consent of the Pakistani authorities. In Pakistan some people were reported to be shocked at the unauthorized incursion by US armed forces. The site is a few miles from the Pakistan Military Academy in Kakul. In his broadcast announcement President Obama said that US forces \"took care to avoid civilian casualties.\"\nDetails soon emerged that three men and a woman were killed along with bin Laden, the woman being killed when she was \"used as a shield by a male combatant\". DNA from bin Laden's body, compared with DNA samples on record from his dead sister, confirmed bin Laden's identity. The body was recovered by the US military and was in its custody until, according to one US official, his body was buried at sea according to Islamic traditions. One US official stated that \"finding a country willing to accept the remains of the world's most wanted terrorist would have been difficult.\" US State Department issued a \"Worldwide caution\" for Americans following bin Laden's death and US diplomatic facilities everywhere were placed on high alert, a senior US official said. Crowds gathered outside the White House and in New York City's Times Square to celebrate bin Laden's death.\n\nIn 2003, President Bashar al-Assad revealed in an interview with a Kuwaiti newspaper that he doubted that al-Qaeda even existed. He was quoted as saying, \"Is there really an entity called al-Qaeda? Was it in Afghanistan? Does it exist now?\" He went on further to remark about bin Laden, commenting \"[he] cannot talk on the phone or use the Internet, but he can direct communications to the four corners of the world? This is illogical.\"\n\nFollowing the mass protests that took place in 2011, which demanded the resignation of al-Assad, al-Qaeda affiliated groups and Sunni sympathizers soon began to constitute an effective fighting force against al-Assad. Before the Syrian Civil War, al-Qaeda's presence in Syria was negligible, but its growth thereafter was rapid. Groups such as the al-Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant have recruited many foreign Mujahideen to train and fight in what has gradually become a highly sectarian war. Ideologically, the Syrian Civil War has served the interests of al-Qaeda as it pits a mainly Sunni opposition against a Shia government. Al-Qaeda and other fundamentalist Sunni militant groups have invested heavily in the civil conflict, actively backing and supporting the Syrian Opposition.\n\nOn February 2, 2014, al-Qaeda distanced itself from ISIS and its actions in Syria, however during 2014–15, ISIS and the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra Front were still able to occasionally cooperate in their fight against the Syrian government. Al-Nusra (backed by Saudi Arabia and Turkey as part of the Army of Conquest during 2015–2017) launched many attacks and bombings, mostly against targets affiliated with or supportive of the Syrian government. From October 2015, Russian air strikes targeted positions held by al-Nusra Front, as well as other Islamist and non-Islamist rebels, while the US also targeted al-Nusra with airstrikes. In early 2016, a leading ISIL ideologue described al-Qaeda as the \"Jews of jihad\".\n\nIn September 2014 al-Zawahiri announced al-Qaeda was establishing a front in India to \"wage jihad against its enemies, to liberate its land, to restore its sovereignty, and to revive its Caliphate.\" Al-Zawahiri nominated India as a beachhead for regional jihad taking in neighboring countries such as Myanmar and Bangladesh. The motivation for the video was questioned, as it appeared the militant group was struggling to remain relevant in light of the emerging prominence of ISIS. The new wing was to be known as \"Qaedat al-Jihad fi'shibhi al-qarrat al-Hindiya\" or al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS). Leaders of several Indian Muslim organizations rejected al-Zawahiri's pronouncement, saying they could see no good coming from it, and viewed it as a threat to Muslim youth in the country.\n\nA US intelligence analyst accused the Pakistan military of 'stage-managing' the terror outfit's latest advance into India. Bruce Riedel, a former CIA analyst and National Security Council official for South Asia, said that Pakistan should be warned that it will be placed on the list of State Sponsors of Terrorism, and wrote that \"Zawahiri made the tape in his hideout in Pakistan, no doubt, and many Indians suspect the ISI (Inter Services Intelligence) is helping to protect him\".\n\nAl-Qaeda has carried out a total of six major terrorist attacks, four of them in its jihad against America. In each case the leadership planned the attack years in advance, arranging for the shipment of weapons and explosives and using its businesses to provide operatives with safehouses and false identities.\n\nAl-Qaeda usually does not disburse funds for attacks, and very rarely makes wire transfers.\n\nOn December 29, 1992, al-Qaeda's launched its first terrorist attack. Two bombs were detonated in Aden, Yemen. The first target was the Movenpick Hotel and the second was the parking lot of the Goldmohur Hotel.\n\nThe bombings were an attempt to eliminate American soldiers on their way to Somalia to take part in the international famine relief effort, Operation Restore Hope. Internally, al-Qaeda considered the bombing a victory that frightened the Americans away, but in the US, the attack was barely noticed. No American soldiers were killed because no soldiers were staying in the hotel which was bombed. However, an Australian tourist and a Yemeni hotel worker were killed in the bombing. Seven others, mostly Yemenis, were severely injured. Two fatwas are said to have been appointed by al-Qaeda's members, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, to justify the killings according to Islamic law. Salim referred to a famous fatwa appointed by Ibn Taymiyyah, a 13th-century scholar much admired by Wahhabis, which sanctioned resistance by any means during the Mongol invasions.\n\nIn 1996, bin Laden personally engineered a plot to assassinate United States President Bill Clinton while the president was in Manila for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation. However, intelligence agents intercepted a message before the motorcade was to leave, and alerted the US Secret Service. Agents later discovered a bomb planted under a bridge.\n\nOn August 7, 1998, al-Qaeda bombed the US embassies in East Africa, killing 224 people, including 12 Americans. In retaliation, a barrage of cruise missiles launched by the US military devastated an al-Qaeda base in Khost, Afghanistan. The network's capacity was unharmed. In late 1999 and 2000, Al-Qaeda planned attacks to coincide with the millennium, masterminded by Abu Zubaydah and involving Abu Qatada, which would include the bombing of Christian holy sites in Jordan, the bombing of Los Angeles International Airport by Ahmed Ressam, and the bombing of the .\n\nOn October 12, 2000, al-Qaeda militants in Yemen bombed the missile destroyer \"USS Cole\" in a suicide attack, killing 17 US servicemen and damaging the vessel while it lay offshore. Inspired by the success of such a brazen attack, al-Qaeda's command core began to prepare for an attack on the US itself.\n\nThe September 11 attacks were the most devastating terrorist acts in American history, killing 2,977 people, including 2,507 civilians, 343 firefighters, 72 law enforcement officers, and 55 military personnel. Two commercial airliners were deliberately flown into the twin towers of the World Trade Center, a third into the Pentagon, and a fourth, originally intended to target either the United States Capitol or the White House, crashed in a field in Stonycreek Township near Shanksville, Pennsylvania. It was also the deadliest foreign attack on American soil since the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.\n\nThe attacks were conducted by al-Qaeda, acting in accord with the 1998 \"fatwa\" issued against the US and its allies by persons under the command of bin Laden, al-Zawahiri, and others. Evidence points to suicide squads led by al-Qaeda military commander Mohamed Atta as the culprits of the attacks, with bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and Hambali as the key planners and part of the political and military command.\n\nMessages issued by bin Laden after September 11, 2001, praised the attacks, and explained their motivation while denying any involvement. Bin Laden legitimized the attacks by identifying grievances felt by both mainstream and Islamist Muslims, such as the general perception that the US was actively oppressing Muslims.\n\nBin Laden asserted that America was massacring Muslims in \"Palestine, Chechnya, Kashmir and Iraq\" and that Muslims should retain the \"right to attack in reprisal.\" He also claimed the 9/11 attacks were not targeted at people, but \"America's icons of military and economic power,\" despite the fact he planned to attack in the morning when most of the people in the intended targets were present and thus generating the maximum number of human casualties.\n\nEvidence has since come to light that the original targets for the attack may have been nuclear power stations on the east coast of the US The targets were later altered by al-Qaeda, as it was feared that such an attack \"might get out of hand\".\n\nAl-Qaeda is deemed a designated terrorist group by the following countries and international organizations:\n \n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, the US government responded, and began to prepare its armed forces to overthrow the Taliban, which it believed was harboring al-Qaeda. The US offered Taliban leader Mullah Omar a chance to surrender bin Laden and his top associates. The first forces to be inserted into Afghanistan were paramilitary officers from the CIA's elite Special Activities Division (SAD).\n\nThe Taliban offered to turn over bin Laden to a neutral country for trial if the US would provide evidence of bin Laden's complicity in the attacks. US President George W. Bush responded by saying: \"We know he's guilty. Turn him over\", and British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned the Taliban regime: \"Surrender bin Laden, or surrender power\".\n\nSoon thereafter the US and its allies invaded Afghanistan, and together with the Afghan Northern Alliance removed the Taliban government as part of the war in Afghanistan. As a result of the US special forces and air support for the Northern Alliance ground forces, a number of Taliban and al-Qaeda training camps were destroyed, and much of the operating structure of al-Qaeda is believed to have been disrupted. After being driven from their key positions in the Tora Bora area of Afghanistan, many al-Qaeda fighters tried to regroup in the rugged Gardez region of the nation.\n\nBy early 2002, al-Qaeda had been dealt a serious blow to its operational capacity, and the Afghan invasion appeared to be a success. Nevertheless, a significant Taliban insurgency remained in Afghanistan.\n\nDebate continued regarding the nature of al-Qaeda's role in the 9/11 attacks. The US State Department released a videotape showing bin Laden speaking with a small group of associates somewhere in Afghanistan shortly before the Taliban was removed from power. Although its authenticity has been questioned by a couple of people, the tape definitively implicates bin Laden and al-Qaeda in the September 11 attacks. The tape was aired on many television channels, with an accompanying English translation provided by the US Defense Department.\n\nIn September 2004, the 9/11 Commission officially concluded that the attacks were conceived and implemented by al-Qaeda operatives. In October 2004, bin Laden appeared to claim responsibility for the attacks in a videotape released through Al Jazeera, saying he was inspired by Israeli attacks on high-rises in the 1982 invasion of Lebanon: \"As I looked at those demolished towers in Lebanon, it entered my mind that we should punish the oppressor in kind and that we should destroy towers in America in order that they taste some of what we tasted and so that they be deterred from killing our women and children.\"\n\nBy the end of 2004, the US government proclaimed that two-thirds of the most senior al-Qaeda figures from 2001 had been captured and interrogated by the CIA: Abu Zubaydah, Ramzi bin al-Shibh and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri in 2002; Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in 2003; and Saif al Islam el Masry in 2004. Mohammed Atef and several others were killed. The West was criticized for not being able to handle Al-Qaida despite a decade of the war.\n\nAl-Qaeda involvement in Africa has included a number of bombing attacks in North Africa, while supporting parties in civil wars in Eritrea and Somalia. From 1991 to 1996, bin Laden and other al-Qaeda leaders were based in Sudan.\n\nIslamist rebels in the Sahara calling themselves al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb have stepped up their violence in recent years. French officials say the rebels have no real links to the al-Qaeda leadership, but this has been disputed. It seems likely that bin Laden approved the group's name in late 2006, and the rebels \"took on the al Qaeda franchise label\", almost a year before the violence began to escalate.\n\nIn Mali, the Ansar Dine faction was also reported as an ally of al-Qaeda in 2013. The Ansar al Dine faction aligned themselves with the AQIM.\n\nFollowing the Libyan Civil War, the removal of Gaddafi and the ensuing period of post-civil war violence in Libya, various Islamist militant groups affiliated with al-Qaeda were able to expand their operations in the region. The 2012 Benghazi attack, which resulted in the death of US Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans, is suspected of having been carried out by various Jihadist networks, such as Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, Ansar al-Sharia and several other Al-Qaeda affiliated groups. The capture of Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, a senior al-Qaeda operative wanted by the United States for his involvement in the 1998 United States embassy bombings, on October 5, 2013, by US Navy Seals, FBI and CIA agents illustrates the importance the US and other Western allies have placed on North Africa.\n\nPrior to the September 11 attacks, al-Qaeda was present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and its members were mostly veterans of the El Mudžahid detachment of the Bosnian Muslim Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Three al-Qaeda operatives carried out the Mostar car bombing in 1997. The operatives were closely linked to and financed by the Saudi High Commission for Relief of Bosnia and Herzegovina founded by then-prince King Salman of Saudi Arabia.\n\nBefore the 9/11 attacks and the US invasion of Afghanistan, westerners who had been recruits at al-Qaeda training camps were sought after by al-Qaeda's military wing. Language skills and knowledge of Western culture were generally found among recruits from Europe, such was the case with Mohamed Atta, an Egyptian national studying in Germany at the time of his training, and other members of the Hamburg Cell. Osama bin Laden and Mohammed Atef would later designate Atta as the ringleader of the 9/11 hijackers. Following the attacks, Western intelligence agencies determined that al-Qaeda cells operating in Europe had aided the hijackers with financing and communications with the central leadership based in Afghanistan.\n\nIn 2003, Islamists carried out a series of bombings in Istanbul killing fifty-seven people and injuring seven hundred. Seventy-four people were charged by the Turkish authorities. Some had previously met bin Laden, and though they specifically declined to pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda they asked for its blessing and help.\n\nIn 2009, three Londoners, Tanvir Hussain, Assad Sarwar and Ahmed Abdullah Ali, were convicted of conspiring to detonate bombs disguised as soft drinks on seven airplanes bound for Canada and the US The MI5 investigation regarding the plot involved more than a year of surveillance work conducted by over two hundred officers. British and US officials said the plot – unlike many similar homegrown European Islamic militant plots – was directly linked to al-Qaeda and guided by senior al-Qaeda members in Pakistan.\n\nIn 2012, Russian Intelligence indicated that al-Qaeda had given a call for \"forest jihad\" and has been starting massive forest fires as part of a strategy of \"thousand cuts\".\n\nFollowing Yemeni unification in 1990, Wahhabi networks began moving missionaries into the country. Although it is unlikely that bin Laden or Saudi al-Qaeda were directly involved, the personal connections they made would be established over the next decade and used in the USS \"Cole\" bombing. Concerns grew over Al Qaeda's group in Yemen.\n\nIn Iraq, al-Qaeda forces loosely associated with the leadership were embedded in the Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad group commanded by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Specializing in suicide operations, they have been a \"key driver\" of the Sunni insurgency. Although they played a small part in the overall insurgency, between 30% and 42% of all suicide bombings which took place in the early years were claimed by Zarqawi's group. Reports have indicated that oversights such as the failure to control access to the Qa'qaa munitions factory in Yusufiyah have allowed large quantities of munitions to fall into the hands of al-Qaida. In November 2010, the militant group Islamic State of Iraq, which is linked to al-Qaeda in Iraq, threatened to \"exterminate all Iraqi Christians\".\n\nAl-Qaeda did not begin training Palestinians until the late 1990s. Large groups such as Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad have rejected an alliance with al-Qaeda, fearing that al-Qaeda will co-opt their cells. This may have changed recently. The Israeli security and intelligence services believe that al-Qaeda has managed to infiltrate operatives from the Occupied Territories into Israel, and is waiting for an opportunity to attack.\n\n, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey are openly supporting the Army of Conquest, an umbrella rebel group fighting in the Syrian Civil War against the Syrian government that reportedly includes an al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front and another Salafi coalition known as Ahrar al-Sham.\n\nBin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri consider India to be a part of an alleged Crusader-Zionist-Hindu conspiracy against the Islamic world. According to a 2005 report by the Congressional Research Service, bin Laden was involved in training militants for Jihad in Kashmir while living in Sudan in the early 1990s. By 2001, Kashmiri militant group Harkat-ul-Mujahideen had become a part of the al-Qaeda coalition. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), al-Qaeda was thought to have established bases in Pakistan-administered Kashmir (in Azad Kashmir, and to some extent in Gilgit–Baltistan) during the 1999 Kargil War and continued to operate there with tacit approval of Pakistan's Intelligence services.\n\nMany of the militants active in Kashmir were trained in the same madrasahs as Taliban and al-Qaeda. Fazlur Rehman Khalil of Kashmiri militant group Harkat-ul-Mujahideen was a signatory of al-Qaeda's 1998 declaration of Jihad against America and its allies. In a 'Letter to American People' (2002), bin Laden wrote that one of the reasons he was fighting America was because of its support to India on the Kashmir issue. In November 2001, Kathmandu airport went on high alert after threats that bin Laden planned to hijack a plane and crash it into a target in New Delhi. In 2002, US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, on a trip to Delhi, suggested that al-Qaeda was active in Kashmir though he did not have any evidence. Rumsfeld proposed hi-tech ground sensors along the Line of Control to prevent militants from infiltrating into Indian-administered Kashmir.\nAn investigation in 2002 found evidence that al-Qaeda and its affiliates were prospering in Pakistan-administered Kashmir with tacit approval of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence. In 2002, a special team of Special Air Service and Delta Force was sent into Indian-Administered Kashmir to hunt for bin Laden after receiving reports that he was being sheltered by Kashmiri militant group Harkat-ul-Mujahideen, which had been responsible for kidnapping western tourists in Kashmir in 1995. Britain's highest-ranking al-Qaeda operative Rangzieb Ahmed had previously fought in Kashmir with the group Harkat-ul-Mujahideen and spent time in Indian prison after being captured in Kashmir.\n\nUS officials believe that al-Qaeda was helping organize a campaign of terror in Kashmir in order to provoke conflict between India and Pakistan. Their strategy was to force Pakistan to move its troops to the border with India, thereby relieving pressure on al-Qaeda elements hiding in northwestern Pakistan. In 2006 al-Qaeda claimed they had established a wing in Kashmir. However Indian Army General H.S. Panag argued that the army had ruled out the presence of al-Qaeda in Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir. Panag also stated that al-Qaeda had strong ties with Kashmiri militant groups Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed based in Pakistan. It has been noted that Waziristan has become a battlefield for Kashmiri militants fighting NATO in support of al-Qaeda and Taliban. Dhiren Barot, who wrote the \"Army of Madinah in Kashmir\" and was an al-Qaeda operative convicted for involvement in the 2004 financial buildings plot, had received training in weapons and explosives at a militant training camp in Kashmir.\nMaulana Masood Azhar, the founder of Kashmiri group Jaish-e-Mohammed, is believed to have met bin Laden several times and received funding from him. In 2002, Jaish-e-Mohammed organized the kidnapping and murder of Daniel Pearl in an operation run in conjunction with al-Qaeda and funded by bin Laden. According to American counter-terrorism expert Bruce Riedel, al-Qaeda and Taliban were closely involved in the 1999 hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight 814 to Kandahar which led to the release of Maulana Masood Azhar and Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh from an Indian prison. This hijacking, Riedel stated, was rightly described by then Indian Foreign Minister Jaswant Singh as a 'dress rehearsal' for September 11 attacks. Bin Laden personally welcomed Azhar and threw a lavish party in his honor after his release. Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, who had been in prison for his role in the 1994 kidnappings of Western tourists in India, went on to murder Daniel Pearl and was sentenced to death in Pakistan. Al-Qaeda operative Rashid Rauf, who was one of the accused in 2006 transatlantic aircraft plot, was related to Maulana Masood Azhar by marriage.\n\nLashkar-e-Taiba, a Kashmiri militant group which is thought to be behind 2008 Mumbai attacks, is also known to have strong ties to senior al-Qaeda leaders living in Pakistan. In Late 2002, top al-Qaeda operative Abu Zubaydah was arrested while being sheltered by Lashkar-e-Taiba in a safe house in Faisalabad. The FBI believes that al-Qaeda and Lashkar have been 'intertwined' for a long time while the CIA has said that al-Qaeda funds Lashkar-e-Taiba. Jean-Louis Bruguière told Reuters in 2009 that \"Lashkar-e-Taiba is no longer a Pakistani movement with only a Kashmir political or military agenda. Lashkar-e-Taiba is a member of al-Qaeda.\"\n\nIn a video released in 2008, American-born senior al-Qaeda operative Adam Yahiye Gadahn stated that \"victory in Kashmir has been delayed for years; it is the liberation of the jihad there from this interference which, Allah willing, will be the first step towards victory over the Hindu occupiers of that Islam land.\"\n\nIn September 2009, a US drone strike reportedly killed Ilyas Kashmiri who was the chief of Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, a Kashmiri militant group associated with al-Qaeda. Kashmiri was described by Bruce Riedel as a 'prominent' al-Qaeda member while others have described him as head of military operations for al-Qaeda. Kashmiri was also charged by the US in a plot against Jyllands-Posten, the Danish newspaper which was at the center of Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy. US officials also believe that Kashmiri was involved in the Camp Chapman attack against the CIA. In January 2010, Indian authorities notified Britain of an al-Qaeda plot to hijack an Indian airlines or Air India plane and crash it into a British city. This information was uncovered from interrogation of Amjad Khwaja, an operative of Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, who had been arrested in India.\n\nIn January 2010, US Defense secretary Robert Gates, while on a visit to Pakistan, stated that al-Qaeda was seeking to destabilize the region and planning to provoke a nuclear war between India and Pakistan.\n\nAl-Qaeda and its successors have migrated online to escape detection in an atmosphere of increased international vigilance. The group's use of the Internet has grown more sophisticated, with online activities that include financing, recruitment, networking, mobilization, publicity, and information dissemination, gathering and sharing.\n\nAbu Ayyub al-Masri's al-Qaeda movement in Iraq regularly releases short videos glorifying the activity of jihadist suicide bombers. In addition, both before and after the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi (the former leader of al-Qaeda in Iraq), the umbrella organization to which al-Qaeda in Iraq belongs, the Mujahideen Shura Council, has a regular presence on the Web.\n\nThe range of multimedia content includes guerrilla training clips, stills of victims about to be murdered, testimonials of suicide bombers, and videos that show participation in jihad through stylized portraits of mosques and musical scores. A website associated with al-Qaeda posted a video of captured American entrepreneur Nick Berg being decapitated in Iraq. Other decapitation videos and pictures, including those of Paul Johnson, Kim Sun-il, and Daniel Pearl, were first posted on jihadist websites.\n\nIn December 2004 an audio message claiming to be from bin Laden was posted directly to a website, rather than sending a copy to al Jazeera as he had done in the past. Al-Qaeda turned to the Internet for release of its videos in order to be certain they would be available unedited, rather than risk the possibility of al Jazeera editing out anything critical of the Saudi royal family.\n\nAlneda.com and Jehad.net were perhaps the most significant al-Qaeda websites. Alneda was initially taken down by American Jon Messner, but the operators resisted by shifting the site to various servers and strategically shifting content.\n\nThe US charged a British information technology specialist, Babar Ahmad, on terrorism charges related to his operating a network of English-language al-Qaeda websites, such as Azzam.com. He was convicted and sentenced to 12-and-a-half years in prison.\n\nIn 2007, al-Qaeda released \"Mujahedeen Secrets\", encryption software used for online and cellular communications. A later version, \"Mujahideen Secrets 2\", was released in 2008.\n\nAl-Qaeda is believed to be operating a clandestine aviation network including \"several Boeing 727 aircraft\", turboprops and executive jets, according to a 2010 Reuters story. Based on a US Department of Homeland Security report, the story said that al-Qaeda is possibly using aircraft to transport drugs and weapons from South America to various unstable countries in West Africa. A Boeing 727 can carry up to 10 tons of cargo. The drugs eventually are smuggled to Europe for distribution and sale, and the weapons are used in conflicts in Africa and possibly elsewhere. Gunmen with links to al-Qaeda have been increasingly kidnapping Europeans for ransom. The profits from the drug and weapon sales, and kidnappings can, in turn, fund more militant activities.\n\nThe following is a list of military conflicts in which Al-Qaeda and its direct affiliates have taken part militarily.\n Experts debate the notion al-Qaeda attacks were an indirect result from the American CIA's Operation Cyclone program to help the Afghan mujahideen. Robin Cook, British Foreign Secretary from 1997 to 2001, has written that al-Qaeda and bin Laden were \"a product of a monumental miscalculation by western security agencies\", and that \"Al-Qaida, literally 'the database', was originally the computer file of the thousands of mujahideen who were recruited and trained with help from the CIA to defeat the Russians.\"\n\nMunir Akram, Permanent Representative of Pakistan to the United Nations from 2002 to 2008, wrote in a letter published in \"The New York Times\" on January 19, 2008:\nThe strategy to support the Afghans against Soviet military intervention was evolved by several intelligence agencies, including the C.I.A. and Inter-Services Intelligence, or ISI. After the Soviet withdrawal, the Western powers walked away from the region, leaving behind 40,000 militants imported from several countries to wage the anti-Soviet jihad. Pakistan was left to face the blowback of extremism, drugs and guns.\n\nA variety of sources, including CNN journalist Peter Bergen, Pakistani ISI Brigadier Mohammad Yousaf, and CIA operatives involved in the Afghan program, such as Vincent Cannistraro, deny that the CIA or other American officials had contact with the foreign mujahideen or bin Laden, let alone armed, trained, coached or indoctrinated them.\n\nBergen and others argue that there was no need to recruit foreigners unfamiliar with the local language, customs or lay of the land since there were a quarter of a million local Afghans willing to fight. Bergen further argues that foreign mujahideen had no need for American funds since they received several million dollars per year from internal sources. Lastly, he argues that Americans could not have trained the mujahideen because Pakistani officials would not allow more than a handful of them to operate in Pakistan and none in Afghanistan, and that the Afghan Arabs were almost invariably militant Islamists reflexively hostile to Westerners whether or not the Westerners were helping the Muslim Afghans.\n\nAccording to Bergen, who conducted the first television interview with bin Laden in 1997: the idea that \"the CIA funded bin Laden or trained bin Laden... [is] a folk myth. There's no evidence of this... Bin Laden had his own money, he was anti-American and he was operating secretly and independently... The real story here is the CIA didn't really have a clue about who this guy was until 1996 when they set up a unit to really start tracking him.\"\n\nJason Burke also wrote:\n\nAnders Behring Breivik, the perpetrator of the 2011 Norway attacks, was inspired by Al-Qaeda, calling it \"the most successful revolutionary movement in the world.\" While admitting different aims, he sought to \"create a European version of Al-Qaida.\"\n\nIslamic extremism dates back to the Kharijites of the 7th century. From their essentially political position, the Kharijites developed extreme doctrines that set them apart from both mainstream Sunni and Shiʿa Muslims. The Kharijites were particularly noted for adopting a radical approach to Takfir, whereby they declared other Muslims to be unbelievers and therefore deemed them worthy of death.\n\nAccording to a number of sources, a \"wave of revulsion\" has been expressed against al-Qaeda and its affiliates by \"religious scholars, former fighters and militants\" who are alarmed by al-Qaeda's takfir and its killing of Muslims in Muslim countries, especially in Iraq.\n\nNoman Benotman, a former Afghan Arab and a militant member of the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group (LIFG), went public with an open letter of criticism to Ayman al-Zawahiri in November 2007, after persuading the imprisoned senior leaders of his former group to enter into peace negotiations with the Libyan regime. While Ayman al-Zawahiri announced the affiliation of the group with al-Qaeda in November 2007, the Libyan government released 90 members of the group from prison several months after \"they were said to have renounced violence.\"\n\nIn 2007, on the anniversary of the September 11 attacks, the Saudi sheikh Salman al-Ouda delivered a personal rebuke to bin Laden. Al-Ouda, a religious scholar and one of the fathers of the Sahwa, the fundamentalist awakening movement that swept through Saudi Arabia in the 1980s, is a widely respected critic of jihadism. Al-Ouda addressed al-Qaeda's leader on television asking him:\nMy brother Osama, how much blood has been spilt? How many innocent people, children, elderly, and women have been killed... in the name of al-Qaeda? Will you be happy to meet God Almighty carrying the burden of these hundreds of thousands or millions [of victims] on your back?\n\nAccording to Pew polls, support for al-Qaeda had dropped in the Muslim world in the years before 2008. Support of suicide bombings in Indonesia, Lebanon, and Bangladesh, dropped by half or more in the last five years. In Saudi Arabia, only 10 percent had a favorable view of al-Qaeda, according to a December 2017 poll by Terror Free Tomorrow, a Washington-based think tank.\n\nIn 2007, the imprisoned Sayyed Imam Al-Sharif, an influential Afghan Arab, \"ideological godfather of al-Qaeda\", and former supporter of takfir, withdrew his support from al-Qaeda with a book \"Wathiqat Tarshid Al-'Aml Al-Jihadi fi Misr w'Al-'Alam\" ().\n\nAlthough once associated with al-Qaeda, in September 2009 LIFG completed a new \"code\" for jihad, a 417-page religious document entitled \"Corrective Studies\". Given its credibility and the fact that several other prominent Jihadists in the Middle East have turned against al-Qaeda, the LIFG's reversal may be an important step toward staunching al-Qaeda's recruitment.\n\nBilal Abdul Kareem, an American journalist based in Syria created a documentary about al-Shabab, al-Qaeda's affiliate in Somalia. The documentary included interviews with former members of the group who stated their reasons for leaving al-Shabab. The members made accusations of segregation, lack of religious awareness and internal corruption and favoritism. In response to Kareem, the Global Islamic Media Front condemned Kareem, called him a liar, and denied the accusations from the former fighters.\n\nIn mid-2014 after the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant declared that they had restored the Caliphate, an audio statement was released by the then-spokesman of the group Abu Muhammad al-Adnani claiming that \"the legality of all emirates, groups, states, and organizations, becomes null by the expansion of the Caliphate's authority\". The speech included a religious refutation of Al-Qaeda for being too lenient regarding Shiites and their refusal to recognize the authority Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, al-Adnani specifically noting: \"It is not suitable for a state to give allegiance to an organization\". He also recalled a past instance in which Osama bin Laden called on al-Qaeda members and supporters to give allegiance to Abu Omar al-Baghdadi when the group was still solely operating in Iraq, as the Islamic State of Iraq, and condemned Ayman al-Zawahiri for not making this same claim for Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and that Zawahiri was encouraging factionalism and division between former allies of ISIL such as the al-Nusra Front.\n\nPublications:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54399968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54399968", "title": "Al-Shabaka, The Palestinian Policy Network", "text": "Al-Shabaka, The Palestinian Policy Network\n\n\"Al-Shabaka\", The Palestinian Policy Network is an independent, transnational think tank, whose mission is “to educate and foster public debate on Palestinian human rights and self-determination within the framework of international law.”\n\nAl-Shabaka was launched in 2010, and was described as \"Palestine’s first independent think tank.\" Al-Shabaka was registered in California in 2009 as the Middle East Policy Network, doing business as Al-Shabaka: The Palestinian Policy Network, and granted 501(c)(3) by the US Internal Revenue Service in 2013.\n\nAccording to Cherine Hussein, an academic based at the Swedish Institute for International Affairs, Al-Shabaka’s launch was a \"significant initiative” by “[Palestinian] intellectuals.\" and was launched “to put a stronger Palestinian policy voice on the map”. Its work \"is primarily directed to concerned Palestinians as well as Arab and international policy communities.\"\n\nAl-Shabaka’s network includes nearly 170 policy analysts from across the world, including Executive Director Nadia Hijab, businessman Sam Bahour, lawyer and former Palestinian negotiator Diana Buttu, Columbia University-based historian Rashid Khalidi, writer and playwright Samah Sabawi, legal scholar Noura Erakat, and author Laila el-Haddad.\n\nAl-Shabaka has appeared in Global Go To Think Tank Index Report, produced by The Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program (TTCSP) of the Lauder Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, from 2013–2016. Al-Shabaka has ranked between 35th – 33rd out of 85 in ‘Best Think Tank Network’.\n"}
{"id": "1111602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1111602", "title": "Albanian Fascist Militia", "text": "Albanian Fascist Militia\n\nThe Albanian Fascist Militia (\"Milizia fascista albanese\", MFA) was an Albanian fascist paramilitary group formed in 1939 following the Italian invasion of Albania in April 1939, part of the Italian Blackshirts (MVSN). It was initially recruited from Italian colonists in Albania, and later on Albanians were also recruited. It was headquartered in Tirana and consisted of four legions:\n\n\nIt was disbanded in 1943 following the surrender of Italy in World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "41405724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41405724", "title": "Anne Tamar-Mattis", "text": "Anne Tamar-Mattis\n\nAnne Tamar-Mattis is an American attorney, human rights advocate, and founder of interACT (formerly Advocates for Informed Choice). She currently serves as interACT's Legal Director.\n\nAnne Tamar-Mattis spent six years as the Director of the National Youth Talkline at Lavender Youth Recreation & Information Center, a national peer-support line for LGBTQ youth. She became the first Program Director for the San Francisco LGBT Community Center in 2001. In 2003 she took a hiatus to attend law school and graduated from the University of California, Berkeley School of Law in 2006.\n\nTamar-Mattis founded interACT with the support of fellowships from Equal Justice Works (2006) and Echoing Green (2008). She has been an adjunct professor at the University of California, Berkeley School of Law since 2008 where she teaches Sexual Orientation & the Law.\n\nSelected publications include:\n\nIn 2010, Anne Tamar-Mattis was recognized as an \"Unsung Hero\" by KQED. 2011 saw her elected to the American Law Institute, and in 2012 Anne was awarded the Barbara Nachtrieb Armstrong Award for Outstanding Advocacy on Behalf of Social Justice for Women.\n\nTamar-Mattis lives with her partner, intersex activist and medical doctor, Suegee Tamar-Mattis. They are the parents of two children. In 2012, they appeared in the documentary feature, Intersexion.\n\n"}
{"id": "53770625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53770625", "title": "Anti-gay purges in Chechnya", "text": "Anti-gay purges in Chechnya\n\nBeginning in February 2017, it has been reported that more than 100 male residents of the Chechen Republic, a part of the Russian Federation, have been forcibly disappeared, being abducted, held prisoner and tortured by authorities targeting them based on their perceived sexual orientation. An unknown number of the men, whom authorities detained on suspicion of being gay or bisexual, have reportedly died after being held in what human rights groups and eyewitnesses have called concentration camps.\n\nAllegations were initially reported on 1 April 2017 in \"Novaya Gazeta\", a Russian-language opposition newspaper, which reported that over 100 men had allegedly been detained and tortured and at least three had died in an extrajudicial killing. The paper, citing its sources in the Chechen special services, called the wave of detentions a \"prophylactic sweep\". The journalist who first reported on the subject has gone into hiding. There have been calls for reprisals against journalists who report on the situation.\n\nAs news spread of Chechen authorities' actions, which have been described as part of a systematic anti-LGBT purge, Russian and international activists scrambled to evacuate survivors of the camps and other vulnerable Chechens but met with difficulty obtaining visas to conduct them safely beyond Russia.\n\nThe reports of the persecution met with a variety of reactions worldwide. The Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov denied not only the occurrence of any persecution but also the existence of gay men in Chechnya, adding that such people would be killed by their own families. Officials in Moscow were sceptical, although in late May the Russian government reportedly agreed to send an investigative team to Chechnya. Numerous national leaders and other public figures in the West condemned Chechnya's actions, and protests were held in Russia and elsewhere.\n\nThe status of LGBT rights in the Chechen Republic has long been a concern among human rights organizations (including Amnesty International) and it has been described as \"especially bleak\" within the context of the Russian Federation as a whole. It was also singled out for criticism by human rights organisations such as Amnesty International before the 2017 crackdown. Chechnya is a predominantly Muslim, ultra-conservative society in which homophobia is widespread and homosexuality is taboo, and where having a gay relative is seen as a \"stain on the entire extended family\".\n\nThe federal Russian LGBT laws apply in Chechnya, which is a part of the Russian Federation. However, in Chechnya, as in other regions of southern Russia, Russian President Vladimir Putin \"has empowered local leaders to enforce their interpretation of traditional values, partly in an effort to co-opt religious extremism, which has largely been driven underground\".\n\nAlthough homosexuality was legalized in Russia in 1993, in 1996 Chechnya's separatist president Aslan Maskhadov adopted sharia law in his Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, and article 148 of the Chechen penal code made all \"sodomy\" punishable by caning after the first two offences and punishable by execution after the third offence, although the death penalty in Chechnya has not been carried out since 1999. Chechnya returned to direct Russian rule in 2000, formally complying with its federal laws and human right statutes. De facto, it retains some autonomy, and the current Head of the Chechen Republic, Ramzan Kadyrov, \"has brought Islam to the fore of Chechnya's daily life, and gay people who reveal their sexuality are often discriminated against and shunned by their families\".\n\nA spokesperson for Russian President Vladimir Putin endorsed Chechen leaders' claims that anti-gay persecution is not occurring in the republic. Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergey Lavrov claimed that the reports didn't have a \"single concrete fact\".\n\nThe detentions began in February 2017 after a Chechen man who had allegedly committed a drug-related offense was stopped by police and arresting officers discovered contact information for other gay men on his phone.\n\nA second wave of detentions began after the LGBT rights organization Gayrussia.ru applied for permits to hold gay pride parades in four cities within Kabardino-Balkaria in Russia's predominantly Muslim North Caucasus region, although not within Chechnya itself. The application in this district was denied by the Kabardino-Balkar authorities. An anti-gay demonstration followed, along with posts on social media calling for gay people to be murdered by various methods.\n\nGayrussia.ru organizer Nikolay Alexeyev dismissed suggestions that attempts to organize pride parades in the region had sparked the violence against gay Chechens as speculative and unfounded. The organization had not focused on the Muslim districts in particular, and it had applied for permits for gay pride parades in 90 municipal governments all across Russia in an attempt to collect the inevitable denials, which would be used in a case about freedom of assembly and gay rights before the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported in 2017 that \"it is difficult to overstate just how vulnerable LGBT people are in Chechnya, where homophobia is intense and rampant. LGBT people are in danger not only of persecution by the authorities but also of falling victim to 'honour killings' by their own relatives for tarnishing family honor.\" Kadyrov has encouraged extrajudicial killings by family members as an alternative to law enforcement – in some cases, gay men in prison have been released early specifically to enable their murder by relatives.\n\nThe Chechen police and military have conducted entrapment schemes, in which a victim is lured on a date, beaten and humiliated. A recording is produced, and blackmail money is solicited in return for silence. Law enforcement agencies in Chechnya already keep lists of \"suspects\". According to a source from Radio Liberty, raids on gays began in December 2016, subsided briefly, and resumed on a large scale in February 2017. The first gay men who were detained via entrapment were tortured in attempts to reveal the names of their acquaintances.\n\nAll of the correspondence in their phones was checked, adding to the \"suspect\" list. This resulted in the number of victims growing exponentially. According to \"Novaya Gazeta\", at the end of February, the police detained and checked the phone of a person who was in a state of intoxication. The phone had \"pictures and videos with explicit content\" and \"dozens of contacts of local homosexuals\". The detainee was sent to a \"secret prison\". Subsequently, a \"wave of persecution\" began in Chechnya as an attempt to purge the country of those who are homosexual or are perceived to be homosexual. Chechen police are reportedly pressuring parents in the region to kill their children who they suspect of being homosexual. To facilitate this, police have reportedly been releasing detainees into the custody of their families and outing them.\n\nAccording to independent media and human rights groups, gay men are sent to clandestine camps in Chechnya, which one eyewitness described to \"Novaya Gazeta\" as a \"closed prison, the existence of which no one officially knows\". Around 100 men have been imprisoned and at least three people have already died. Some of the guards in these allegedly unofficial jails are accused of releasing the prisoners to their relatives if their relatives promise to kill them (at least one man was reported by a witness as having died after returning to his family). One location of a secret prison is allegedly in the southern city of Argun. Another prison is located in Tsotsin-Yurt, south of the Chechen capital Grozny.\n\nAccording to escapees interviewed in the Russian newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" and the British-owned \"The Guardian\", 30 to 40 people are detained in one room (two to three metres big), and often kept for months on end without trial. Witnesses report they are also beaten (with polypropylene pipes below the waist), and tortured with electricity. In addition to physical torture, individuals report being mocked, humiliated and insulted, as well as being forced to clean the prison and spat in the face. In some cases the process of torture ends in the death of the person being tortured.\n\nIn May 2017, it was reported that the building in Argun had been buried under demolition rubble and that prisoners had been moved to a new, unknown location. Investigators say that prisoners are likely to have been moved to a Special Police Force training base in Terek, about 60 in Argun, but they have been denied entry, because 'training is taking place'.\n\nHuman Rights Watch has confirmed that authorities have \"rounded up dozens of men on suspicion of being gay and that they are currently torturing and humiliating the victims. Some of the men have forcibly disappeared. At least three men have died since this brutal campaign began.\" An investigation by Radio Svoboda (Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty) claimed that prisoners are being released to their families if their families promise to murder them.\n\nA 7 April 2017 press statement by the United States Department of State expressed concern \"about the situation in the Republic of Chechnya, where there have been numerous credible reports indicating the detention\".\n\nA lengthy analysis published on 26 May by Human Rights Watch reported the presence of leading government officials at the camps while detainees were being tortured. The report, which includes graphic descriptions of the ordeals faced by several survivors of the camps, suggested that several victims of the camps were still being detained at the time of its publication.\n\nIn June, a journalist with VICE News visited a now-abandoned detention center in Argun believed to be the site of one of the camps, and interviewed the local minister of internal affairs, who also acts as prison warden. The warden denied that abuse had taken place, and said, \"My officers would not even want to touch such people, if they exist, let alone beating or torturing them\". Shown footage of the detention center, a man who described being electrocuted by his captors identified it as the site where he was held, and also identified the warden as one of his tormentors.\n\nChechen and Russian authorities have denied any knowledge of the persecution. The Russian LGBT Network, an inter-regional LGBT rights organization based in Saint Petersburg, is attempting to assist those who are threatened and evacuate them from Chechnya. Human rights groups and foreign governments have called upon Russia and Chechnya to put an end to the internments.\n\nDue to the date (1 April) of the initial \"Novaya Gazeta\" allegations, a spokesman for the region's interior ministry described the report as \"an April fool's joke\". Alvi Karimov, spokesperson for Ramzan Kadyrov, also rejected the allegations, saying: \"you cannot arrest or repress people who just don't exist in the republic\", while also adding that \"If there were such people in Chechnya, the law-enforcement organs wouldn't need to have anything to do with them because their relatives would send them somewhere from which there is no returning\". Sources have said that Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov wanted the LGBT community eliminated by 26 May.\n\nOn 14 April 2017 Dmitry Peskov, Press Secretary for the President of Russia, said \"We do not have any reliable information about any problems in this area\". The Russian LGBT Network is attempting to evacuate from Chechnya those who are threatened. The Canada-based charity Rainbow Railroad announced that it is working with the Russian LGBT Network to establish safe routes out of the region and assist at-risk men in escaping.\n\nOn 5 May, Putin agreed to a proposal by Russia's human rights ombudsman to form a group to investigate the reports.\n\nIn Moscow, on 10 May, five activists were arrested while en route to the prosecutor general's office to deliver a petition calling for an unbiased investigation. According to the Russian LGBT Network, the petition bore more than two million signatures of people in various countries. The arrests followed an incident at a May Day parade in St. Petersburg in which riot police reportedly detained 17 protesters who sought to bring attention to the ongoing events in Chechnya.\n\nIt was reported on 17 May that survivors of Chechnya's anti-gay persecution were having difficulty finding countries willing to issue them visas. The Russia LGBT Network reported having unproductive talks with American embassy officials, in which they were told there was \"no political will\" to issue U.S. visas to the refugees. As of 19 May, a total of nine survivors of the persecution had reportedly been granted visas—two by Lithuania, the others by countries that Lithuanian Foreign Minister Linas Linkevičius termed \"allies\" but declined to identify. Linkevičius urged other nations of the European Union to accept more of the refugees. As of June, the Russian LGBT Network reported that 42 men had been evacuated to other parts of Russia. While they are safe there from the immediate threat of detention, they risk being tracked down by family members of the Chechen diaspora if they remain in Russia.\n\nIn late May, following weeks of international pressure, the Kremlin authorized its human rights ombudswoman, Tatiana Moskalkova, to assemble a preliminary fact-finding team, which has sent investigators to Chechnya. Early reports indicated that Chechen officials were attempting to sabotage the team's investigation.\n\nAfter a lull, the Russian LGBT Network announced in July that it was again receiving reports of authorities persecuting gay Chechens. The group voiced doubt that the Russian government was conducting an actual investigation, despite earlier claims to the contrary from the Kremlin.\n\nIn a television interview slated for broadcast on July 18, Kadyrov reiterated his earlier contention that there are no gay people in Chechnya and denied that they had been arrested and tortured by his government. \"We don't have any gays,\" he said. \"If there are any, take them to Canada. To purify our blood, if there are any here, take them.\" In the interview, he called the men who stated they had been tortured as \"devils\". He stated, \"They made it up.\" adding, \"They are for sale. They are subhuman. God damn them for slandering us. They will have to answer to the Almighty for this.\"\n\nOn 4 April 2017 Amnesty International called for a prompt investigation and intervention, and more than 130,000 people have signed a petition started by the organization in opposition to alleged human rights violations. The camps became an issue in the 2017 French presidential election, with Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Benoît Hamon and Emmanuel Macron condemning Chechnya for them, while François Fillon and Marine Le Pen remained silent. In the United Kingdom, British MEPs urged Prime Minister Theresa May and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson to meet with the Russian Ambassador. Johnson wrote on Twitter that it was \"outrageous\" that the government of Chechnya \"supports rather than stops ill-treatment of LGBT people\", adding that he agreed with comments from Baroness Anelay regarding the killing of \"at least three\" gay men, as well as the \"abhorrent\" statement by the Chechen authorities, which implied \"that such treatment towards LGBT [people] is acceptable\". A protest attended by hundreds was held on 12 April 2017, outside the Embassy of Russia in London. Julie Bishop, the Australian Foreign Minister, condemned both the arrests and the camps.\n\nOn 13 April 2017, a panel of five experts that advises the United Nations Human Rights Council called on Chechnya to \"put an end to the persecution of people perceived to be gay or bisexual in the Chechen Republic who are living in a climate of fear fueled by homophobic speeches by local authorities\". Also on 13 April, the director of the human rights office at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said that Moscow must \"urgently investigate the alleged disappearance, torture and other ill-treatment\" of gay men in Chechnya. Lilianne Ploumen, Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, has called for a statement of condemnation from the 32 members (Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Italy, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Uruguay) of the Equal Rights Coalition. In a statement released on 15 April, the Government of Canada called the \"persecution of LGBTQ2 people in Chechnya reprehensible\", calling upon Russia to investigate and ensure the safety of those at risk.\n\nA 7 April 2017 press statement by the United States Department of State expressed concern \"about the situation in the Republic of Chechnya, where there have been numerous credible reports indicating the detentions and deaths of LGBTI individuals\". Fifty members of the United States Congress signed a letter urging Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who was in Russia in April to publicly question the validity of the reports and to pressure the Russian government to investigate and put a stop to the arrests. On 17 April 2017, Nikki Haley, the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, released a statement saying, \"We continue to be disturbed by reports of kidnapping, torture, and murder of people in Chechnya based on their sexual orientation and those persecuted by association. If true, this violation of human rights cannot be ignored – Chechen authorities must immediately investigate these allegations, hold anyone involved accountable, and take steps to prevent future abuses.\" On 20 April 2017, former Secretary of State and 2016 Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton condemned the developments and called on the Trump administration to do the same.\n\nOn 27 April the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum issued a statement condemning the persecution of gay men in Chechnya. In a press release, the museum's director called on Chechen and Russian authorities to investigate the matter and \"ensure the safety of LGBT populations within the Russian Federation\".\n\nGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel raised the topic in a meeting on 2 May with Putin, and she urged him to exert his influence to \"ensure that minorities' rights are protected\". The following day, in a joint letter to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, the foreign ministers of five European countries (Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden) declared their concern over the situation.\n\nAccording to a spokesperson for the United States National Security Council, the topic of anti-gay persecution did not arise at a May 10 meeting between U.S. President Donald Trump and Lavrov. A White House spokesperson said that she was \"not 100 percent sure\" whether Trump had been briefed on the issue. As of May 10, neither Trump nor U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson had made any public comment on the matter. Testifying before members of the House of Representatives on June 14, Tillerson reported that he had not discussed the matter during a meeting with Lavrov and did not know if Trump had raised it with Putin.\nA spokesperson for the Russian Embassy in Israel blamed reports of anti-gay persecution in Chechnya on a \"propaganda campaign against Russia\". In a May 11 letter published in the newspaper \"Haaretz\", press attaché Dmitry Alushkin asserted that \"authorized official government bodies of the Russian Federation\" had conducted an investigation and that \"[there] are no victims of persecution, threats or violence\". He criticized Israeli citizens for spreading \"factually incorrect information\".\n\nThree France-based human rights organizations (Stop Homophobia, Moss and Idaho France), filed a complaint on 16 May with the International Criminal Court (ICC) accusing Chechen government officials of genocide. The complaint, which alleged that the anti-gay activities occurring in Chechnya were not the work of isolated groups but rather were orchestrated by the Chechen government, referred to Kadyrov as the \"logistician\" of the concentration camps. Putin announced in 2016 that Russia, which signed but never ratified the treaty creating the ICC, would end its relationship with the treaty in November 2017.\n\nOn 23 May 2017, in the United States, Republican and Democratic members of the House of Representatives introduced House Resolution 351. The resolution condemns the persecution of LGBT people in Chechnya and calls upon the Russian government to condemn the violence. On 27 June 2017, Resolution 351 passed unanimously in the House of Representatives.\n\nIn a meeting with Putin on 29 May, French president Emmanuel Macron pressed the Russian leader on the plight of LGBT Chechens and promised constant vigilance on the issue. According to Macron, Putin reported having taken steps to ascertain \"the complete truth on the activities of local authorities\".\n\nOn December 20, 2017, the United States Treasury Department announced it was imposing sanctions on Kadyrov and a Chechen law enforcement official, Ayub Katayev, citing \"gross violations of internationally recognized human rights\". The measures, applied under the Magnitsky Act, restrict travel and freeze assets. A spokesman for Russian president Putin called the sanctions \"illegal\" and indicated that Moscow would enact similar restrictions on U.S. officials in response.\n\nMany celebrities and LGBT activists such as Troye Sivan, Ellen DeGeneres, Matt Bomer, Mark Ruffalo, and Billy Eichner have voiced their strong condemnation of these camps.\n\nOn April 20, 2018, the United States Department of State released the Country Reports on Human Rights Practices of 2017. The report on Russia said the following about the situation of LGBTI people in Chechnya from December 2016 to December 2017.\n\nEXECUTIVE SUMMARYThe most significant human rights issues included extrajudicial killings, including of LGBTI persons in Chechnya; enforced disappearances; torture that was systematic and sometimes resulted in death and sometimes included punitive psychiatric incarceration; harsh and life-threatening conditions in prisons; arbitrary arrest and detention; lack of judicial independence; political prisoners; severe interference with privacy; severe restrictions on freedom of expression and the media, including the use of “antiextremism” and other vague laws to prosecute peaceful dissent; and violence against journalists and bloggers; blocking and filtering of internet content and use of cyberattacks to disrupt peaceful internet discussion; severe restrictions on the rights of peaceful assembly; increasingly severe restriction on freedom of association, including laws on “foreign agents” and “undesirable foreign organization”; restrictions on freedom of movement of those charged with political offenses; refoulement; severe restriction on the right to participate in the political process, including restrictions on opposition candidates’ ability to seek public office and conduct political campaigns, and on the ability of civil society to monitor election processes; widespread corruption at all levels and in all branches of government; thousands of fatal incidents of domestic violence to which the government responded by reducing the penalty for domestic violence, and honor killings and other harmful traditional practices against women in parts of the North Caucasus; thousands of fatal incidents of child abuse; trafficking in persons; institutionalization in harsh conditions of a large percentage of persons with disabilities; and state-sponsored as well as societal violence against LGBTI persons, especially in Chechnya.\n\na. Arbitrary Deprivation of Life and Other Unlawful or Politically Motivated KillingsOn April 1, the independent newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" reported that, during an “antigay purge” that took place from December 2016 through March, local Chechen security services kidnapped, held prisoner, and tortured more than 100 male residents in Chechnya based on their suspected sexual orientation, resulting in at least three deaths. Multiple independent human rights organizations, including Human Rights Watch, the Russia LGBT Network, and Memorial, subsequently confirmed \"Novaya Gazeta\"’s allegations. On April 19, following international condemnation, the government authorized a “preinvestigative check” of the allegations by the Investigative Committee. Chechen officials denied the killings had taken place, while simultaneously making statements that condoned extrajudicial killings of LGBTI persons. In May Human Rights Ombudswoman Tatyana Moskalkova also began an investigation and requested the Investigative Committee to look into the fate of individual alleged victims, based on information provided to her by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). On July 6, she received an interim response from the Investigative Committee that did not confirm any violence against the LGBTI community in Chechnya, citing a lack of specific information on the victims. She publicly noted her dissatisfaction with the response and traveled to Chechnya in September. According to \"Novaya Gazeta\" and credible NGO reports, during her visit to Chechnya, local authorities misled her and attempted to cover up the killings. On October 16, a surviving victim of the “antigay purge,” Maksim Lapunov, filed a complaint with the Investigative Committee in which he alleged torture and provided information about extrajudicial killings. On November 1, Moskalkova stated she would ensure that Lapunov’s allegations were properly investigated, stating, “I believe there are grounds to open a criminal case and provide state protection to Maxim Lapunov.” On December 27, \"Novaya Gazeta\" published a report that included interviews with 12 victims of the purge, describing in detail their arrests, imprisonment, and torture at the hands of authorities. According to \"Novaya Gazeta\", by the end of the year, the Russia LGBT Network had evacuated 106 persons from Chechnya, all of whom left Russia.\n\ng. Abuses in Internal ConflictOn April 1, \"Novaya Gazeta\" reported that Chechen security services kidnapped, secretly held prisoner, and tortured more than 100 male residents in Chechnya based on their suspected sexual orientation, resulting in at least three deaths (see section 1.a.).\n\na. Freedom of Expression, Including for the PressJournalists reporting on the North Caucasus remained particularly vulnerable to physical attacks or prosecution for their reporting. Following their exposé of the large-scale violations of human rights against gay men in Chechnya, Chechen officials made threats against the independent newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\", which first broke the story. At an April 3 gathering of some 15,000 men at a mosque, Chechen presidential adviser Adam Shahidov called \"Novaya Gazeta\" journalists “enemies of our faith and our motherland” and threatened “vengeance.” A resolution adopted at the gathering included a promise that “retribution will catch up with the hatemongers wherever and whoever they are, without a statute of limitations,” which \"Novaya Gazeta\" believed to constitute a call to violence against its journalists. On April 15, \"Novaya Gazeta\" journalist Elena Milashina announced that the she had left the country following threats against her life. On April 19, \"Novaya Gazeta\" reported that it received an envelope mailed from Chechnya containing an unidentified white powder.\n\nActs of Violence, Discrimination, and Other Abuses Based on Sexual Orientation and Gender IdentityDuring the year there were reports of both societal and government violence motivated by the sexual orientation or gender identity of the victim. Human rights activists and NGOs reported torture and killings of LGBTI persons in the North Caucasus by security services (see section 1.a. for information on Chechnya).\n\n Germany and Lithuania had granted visas for entry to the countries based on 'humanitarian' grounds.\nIn August 2017, the Dutch government changed policy to allow LGBT persons from Chechnya to gain almost automatic \"asylum-seeker\" status and entry to the Netherlands.\n\nIn September 2017, the Toronto-based nonprofit Rainbow Railroad made public that the Canadian government, working with them, has quietly allowed gay men and lesbians from Chechnya to seek safety in Canada. , 22 people deemed government-assisted refugees have found asylum in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "25686725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25686725", "title": "Aptheker v. Secretary of State", "text": "Aptheker v. Secretary of State\n\nAptheker v. Secretary of State, 378 U.S. 500 (1964), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case on the right to travel and passport restrictions as they relate to Fifth Amendment due process rights and First Amendment free speech, freedom of assembly and freedom of association rights. It is the first case in which the US Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of personal restrictions on the right to travel abroad.\n\nIn \"Aptheker\", the petitioner challenged Section 6 of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950, which made it a crime for any member of a Communist organization to attempt to use or obtain a passport.\n\nAppellants Herbert Aptheker and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn were native born citizens and residents of the United States and had held valid passports. Aptheker was editor of \"Political Affairs\", the 'theoretical organ' of the Communist Party in the United States and appellant Flynn was chairman of the Party. On January 22, 1962, the Acting Director of the Passport Office notified appellants that their passports were revoked because the Department of State believed that their use of the passports would violate § 6 of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950 which provided that it was unlawful for any member of a Communist party to apply for or to renew a US passport or to use such a passport.\n\nAppellants requested and received hearings to review the revocations of their passports. The examiners recommended that the passport revocations be sustained. Both appellants appealed to the Board of Passport Appeals which recommended affirmance of the revocations. The Secretary of State subsequently approved the recommendations of the Board.\n\nAppellants thereupon filed separate complaints seeking declaratory and injunctive relief in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The complaints asked that judgments be entered declaring § 6 unconstitutional and ordering the Secretary of State to issue passports to appellants. Appellant-plaintiffs alleged that § 6 was unconstitutional as, \"inter alia\", \"a deprivation without due process of law of plaintiff's constitutional liberty to travel a road, in violation of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.\"\n\nThe three-judge District Court rejected appellants' contentions, sustained the constitutionality\nof § 6 of the Control Act, and granted the Secretary's motion for summary judgment, concluding that the enactment by Congress of § 6 was a valid exercise of the power of Congress to protect and preserve the Government against the threat posed by the world Communist movement and that the regulatory scheme bore a reasonable relation thereto.\n\nIn the US Supreme Court, appellants attacked § 6, both on its face and as applied, as an unconstitutional deprivation of the liberty guaranteed in the Bill of Rights. The Government, while conceding that the right to travel is protected by the Fifth Amendment, contended that the Due Process Clause does not prevent the reasonable regulation of liberty and that § 6 was a reasonable regulation because of its relation to the danger the world Communist movement presented for national security. Alternatively, the Government argued that 'whether or not denial of passports to some members of the Communist Party might be deemed not reasonably related to national security, surely Section 6 was reasonable as applied to the top-ranking Party leaders involved here.\n\nJustice Goldberg held, with Justices Black and Douglas concurring, that § 6 of the Control Act too broadly and indiscriminately restricted the right to travel and thereby abridged the liberty guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment and that § 6 of the Control Act was unconstitutional on its face. As to the government's alternative theory, the clarity and preciseness of the provision in question made it impossible to narrow its indiscriminately cast and overly broad scope without substantial judicial rewriting which was beyond the power of the Court in this case.\n\nThe Court began with \"Kent v. Dulles\", reaffirming that the right to travel abroad was 'an important aspect of the citizen's 'liberty\" guaranteed in the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. It then cited \"NAACP v. Alabama\" and \"NAACP v. Button\" in support of the \"well-established principles by which to test whether the restrictions here imposed [were] consistent with the liberty guaranteed in the Fifth Amendment.\" It enumerated these principles by citing \"Shelton v. Tucker\" via \"NAACP v. Alabama\" \"'(E)ven though the governmental purpose be legitimate and substantial, that purpose cannot be pursued by means that broadly stifle fundamental personal liberties when the end can be more narrowly achieved. The breadth of legislative abridgment must be viewed in the light of less drastic means for achieving the same basic purpose.'\"\n\nIt then considered the congressional purpose underlying § 6 of the Control Act, noting that the legislation in question flowed from the congressional desire to protect national security which it held was obviously and unarguably within the Congress' Constitutional power. But it concluded that the legislation was indiscriminate due to an absence of criteria linking the bare fact of membership in a Communist organization to the individual's knowledge, activity or commitment. The provision swept within its prohibition both knowing and unknowing members, citing \"Wieman v. Updegraff\": 'Indiscriminate classification of innocent with knowing activity must fall as an assertion of arbitrary power.' The irrebuttable presumption of Section 6 that individuals who are members of the specified organizations will, if given passports, engage in activities inimical to the security of the United States also rendered irrelevant the member's degree of activity in the organization and his commitment to its purpose, citing \"Schware v. Board of Bar Examiners\".\n\nThe Court further noted that section 6 excluded other considerations which might more closely relate the denial of passports to the stated purpose of the legislation, such as the purposes for which an individual wishes to travel or the security-sensitivity of the areas in which he wishes to travel. In determining whether there has been an abridgment of the Fifth Amendment's guarantee of liberty, the Court recognized the danger of punishing a member of a Communist organization 'for his adherence to lawful and constitutionally protected purposes, because of other and unprotected purposes which he does not necessarily share, citing \"Noto v. United States\". And it noted that Congress had within its power 'less drastic' means of achieving the congressional objective of safeguarding the nation's security.\n\nThe Court then considered the government's alternate theory, rejecting it because the law was clear and precise and could not be judicially rewritten to take in only top party members. The Court concluded that \"since freedom of travel is a constitutional liberty closely related to rights of free speech and association, we believe that appellants in this case should not be required to assume the burden of demonstrating that Congress could not have written a statute constitutionally prohibiting their travel.\"\n\nIn a concurring opinion, Justice Black expressed his opinion that the whole act, including Section 6, was a bill of attainder. He held it appropriate \"to point out that the Framers thought that the best way to promote the internal security of our people is to protect their First Amendment freedoms of speech, press, religion and assembly, and that we cannot take away the liberty of groups whose views most people detest without jeopardizing the liberty of all others whose views, though popular today, may themselves be detested tomorrow.\"\n\nJustice Douglas, also concurring, opined that \"Freedom of movement is kin to the right of assembly and to the right of association. These rights may not be abridged,\" citing \"De Jonge v. Oregon\". \"War may be the occasion for serious curtailment of liberty. Absent war, I see no way to keep a citizen from traveling within or without the country, unless there is power to detain him. \"Ex parte Endo\", 323 U.S. 283, 65 S.Ct. 208, 89 L.Ed. 243. And no authority to detain exists except under extreme conditions, e.g., unless he has been convicted of a crime or unless there is probable cause for issuing a warrant of arrest by standards of the Fourth Amendment.\" \"We cannot exercise and enjoy citizenship in world perspective without the right to travel abroad; and I see no constitutional way to curb it unless, as I said, there is the power to detain.\"\n\nJustice Clark wrote the minority opinion which was joined by Justices Harlan and White. The minority objected to the refusal of the majority to consider the government's alternate theory, citing \"United States v. Raines\", 362 U.S. 17, distinguishing the Court's thinking in First Amendment cases in \"Thornhill\" and \"Button\" and Fifth Amendment cases in \"Kent\". The minority would hold that as applied to the prosecution of the Communist Party's top dignitaries, the section was clearly constitutional, noting that Aptheker and Flynn fail the majority's criteria for \"indiscriminate\" because each clearly knew of their party membership and each was committed to its causes. Neither desired to travel to some innocent destination. Consequently, the Court should not reject the law on the hypothetical but should rather hold the law constitutional as applied.\n\nHe would also find the section valid on its face, holding that the remedy adopted by the Congress had a rational basis because it was reasonably related to national security and reasonably tailored to accomplish the purpose. He rejected the \"loose generalization\" that individual guilt might be conclusively presumed from membership in the Party\" because the matter could not be held in isolation but need be considered relative to the subject matter involved and legislative findings.\n\nJustice White, without elaboration, would hold Section 6 constitutional as applied but did not join Justice Clark in his facial analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1133033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1133033", "title": "Bengali language movement", "text": "Bengali language movement\n\nThe Bengali Language Movement ( \"Bhasha Andolôn\") was a political movement in former East Bengal (currently Bangladesh) advocating the recognition of the Bengali language as an official language of the then-Dominion of Pakistan in order to allow its use in government affairs, the continuation of its use as a medium of education, its use in media, currency and stamps, and to maintain its writing in the Bengali script.\n\nWhen the Dominion of Pakistan was formed by the partition of India in 1947, it was composed of various ethnic and linguistic groups, with the geographically non-contiguous East Bengal province (that was renamed in 1956 as East Pakistan) having a mainly Bengali population. In 1948, the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan ordained Urdu as the sole national language, sparking extensive protests among the Bengali-speaking majority of East Bengal. Facing rising sectarian tensions and mass discontent with the new law, the government outlawed public meetings and rallies. The students of the University of Dhaka and other political activists defied the law and organised a protest on 21 February 1952. The movement reached its climax when police killed student demonstrators on that day. The deaths provoked widespread civil unrest. After years of conflict, the central government relented and granted official status to the Bengali language in 1956.\n\nThe Language Movement catalysed the assertion of Bengali national identity in East Bengal and later East Pakistan, and became a forerunner to Bengali nationalist movements, including the 6-Point Movement and subsequently the Bangladesh Liberation War and Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. In Bangladesh, 21 February (\"Ekushey February\") is observed as Language Movement Day, a national holiday. The Shaheed Minar monument was constructed near Dhaka Medical College in memory of the movement and its victims. In 1999, UNESCO declared 21 February as International Mother Language Day, in tribute to the Language Movement and the ethno-linguistic rights of people around the world.\n\nThe current nations, Pakistan and Bangladesh, were part of an undivided India during the British colonial rule. From the mid-19th century, the Urdu language had been promoted as the \"lingua franca\" of Indian Muslims by political and religious leaders, such as Sir Khwaja Salimullah, Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, Nawab Viqar-ul-Mulk and Maulvi Abdul Haq. Urdu is an Indo-Aryan language of the Indo-Iranian branch, belonging to the Indo-European family of languages. It developed under Persian, Arabic and Turkic influence on apabhramshas (last linguistic stage of the medieval Indian Aryan language Pali-Prakrit) in South Asia during the Delhi Sultanate and Mughal Empire. With its Perso-Arabic script, the language was considered a vital element of the Islamic culture for Indian Muslims; Hindi and the Devanagari script were seen as fundamentals of Hindu culture.\n\nWhile the use of Urdu grew common with Muslims in northern India, the Muslims of Bengal (a province in the eastern part of British Indian sub-continent) primarily used the Bengali language. Bengali is an Eastern Indo-Aryan language that arose from the eastern Middle Indic languages around 1000 CE and developed considerably during the Bengal Renaissance. As early as the late 19th century, social activists such as the Muslim feminist Roquia Sakhawat Hussain were choosing to write in Bengali to reach out to the people and develop it as a modern literary language. Supporters of Bengali opposed Urdu even before the partition of India, when delegates from Bengal rejected the idea of making Urdu the lingua franca of Muslim India in the 1937 Lucknow session of the Muslim League. The Muslim League was a British Indian political party that became the driving force behind the creation of Pakistan as a Muslim state separate from British India.\n\nAfter the partition of India in 1947, Bengali-speaking people in East Bengal, the non-contiguous eastern part of the Dominion of Pakistan, made up 44 million of the newly formed Dominion of Pakistan's 69 million people. The Dominion of Pakistan's government, civil services, and military, however, were dominated by personnel from the western wing of the Dominion of Pakistan. In 1947, a key resolution at a national education summit in Karachi advocated Urdu as the sole state language, and its exclusive use in the media and in schools. Opposition and protests immediately arose. Students from Dhaka rallied under the leadership of Abul Kashem, the secretary of Tamaddun Majlish, a Bengali Islamic cultural organisation. The meeting stipulated Bengali as an official language of the Dominion of Pakistan and as a medium of education in East Bengal. However, the Pakistan Public Service Commission removed Bengali from the list of approved subjects, as well as from currency notes and stamps. The central education minister Fazlur Rahman made extensive preparations to make Urdu the only state language of the Dominion of Pakistan. Public outrage spread, and many Bengali students met on the University of Dhaka campus on 8 December 1947 to formally demand that Bengali be made an official language. To promote their cause, Bengali students organised processions and rallies in Dhaka.\n\nLeading Bengali scholars argued why Urdu should not be the only state language. The writer Abul Mansur Ahmed said if Urdu became the state language, the educated society of East Bengal would become 'illiterate' and 'ineligible' for government positions. The first Rastrabhasa Sangram Parishad (National Language Action Committee), an organisation in favour of Bengali as a state language was formed towards the end of December 1947. Professor Nurul Huq Bhuiyan of the Tamaddun Majlish convened the committee. Later, Parliament member Shamsul Huq convened a new committee to push for Bengali as a state language. Assembly member Dhirendranath Datta proposed legislation in the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan to allow members to speak in Bengali and authorise its use for official purposes. Datta's proposal was supported by legislators Prem Hari Burman, Bhupendra Kumar Datta and Sris Chandra Chattaopadhyaya of East Bengal, as well as the people from the region. Prime minister Liaquat Ali Khan and the Muslim League denounced the proposal as an attempt to divide the Pakistani people, thus the legislation was defeated.\n\nStudents of the University of Dhaka and other colleges of the city organised a general strike on 11 March 1948 to protest the omission of Bengali language from official use, including coins, stamps and recruitment tests for the navy. The movement restated the demand that Bengali be declared an official language of the Dominion of Pakistan. Political leaders such as Shamsul Huq, Shawkat Ali, M Sirajul Islam, Kazi Golam Mahboob, Oli Ahad, Abdul Wahed and others were arrested during the rallies. Rally leader Mohammad Toaha was hospitalised after attempting to snatch a rifle from a police officer. Student leaders, including Abdul Matin and Abdul Malek Ukil took part in the procession.\n\nIn the afternoon of 11 March, a meeting was held to protest police brutality and arrests. A group of students marching towards the chief minister Khawaja Nazimuddin's house was stopped in front of the Dhaka High Court. The rally changed its direction and moved in the direction of the Secretariat building. Police attacked the procession injuring several students and leaders, including A. K. Fazlul Huq. Continuing strikes were observed the following four days. Under such circumstances, the chief minister Nazimuddin signed an accord with the student leaders agreeing to some terms and conditions, without complying to the demand that Bengali be made a state language.\n\nIn the height of civic unrest, Governor-General of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah arrived in Dhaka on 19 March 1948. On 21 March, at a civic reception at Racecourse Ground, he claimed that the language issue was designed by a \"fifth column\" to divide Pakistani Muslims. Jinnah further declared that \"Urdu, and only Urdu\" embodied the spirit of Muslim nations and would remain as the state language, labelling those who disagreed with his views as \"Enemies of Pakistan\". Jinnah delivered a similar speech at Curzon Hall of the University of Dhaka on 24 March. At both meetings, Jinnah was interrupted by large segments of the audience. He later called a meeting of a state language committee of action, and overruled the contract that was signed by Khawaja Nazimuddin with the student leaders. Before Jinnah left Dhaka on 28 March, he delivered a speech on radio reasserting his \"Urdu-only\" policy.\n\nShortly thereafter, the East Bengal Language Committee, presided by Maulana Akram Khan, was formed by the East Bengal government to prepare a report on the language problem. The Committee completed its report on 6 December 1950, but it was not published until 1958. The government suggested that Bengali be written in Arabic script, as a potential solution to the language conflict.\n\nThe Urdu-Bengali controversy was reignited when Jinnah's successor, governor-general Khawaja Nazimuddin, staunchly defended the \"Urdu-only\" policy in a speech on 27 January 1952. On 31 January, the \"Shorbodolio Kendrio Rashtrobhasha Kormi Porishod\" (All-Party Central Language Action Committee) was formed in a meeting at the Bar Library Hall of the University of Dhaka, chaired by Maulana Bhashani. The central government's proposal of writing the Bengali language in Arabic script was vehemently opposed at the meeting. The action committee called for an all out protest on 21 February, including strikes and rallies. In an attempt to prevent the demonstration, the government imposed Section 144 in Dhaka, thereby banning any gathering.\n\nAt nine o'clock in the morning, students began gathering on the University of Dhaka premises in defiance of Section 144. The university vice-chancellor and other officials were present as armed police surrounded the campus. By a quarter past eleven, students gathered at the university gate and attempted to break the police line. Police fired tear gas shells towards the gate to warn the students. A section of students ran into the Dhaka Medical College while others rallied towards the university premises cordoned by the police. The vice-chancellor asked police to stop firing and ordered the students to leave the area. However, the police arrested several students for violating section 144 as they attempted to leave. Enraged by the arrests, the students met around the East Bengal Legislative Assembly and blocked the legislators' way, asking them to present their insistence at the assembly. When a group of students sought to storm into the building, police opened fire and killed a number of students, including Abdus Salam, Rafiq Uddin Ahmed, Abul Barkat and Abdul Jabbar. As the news of the killings spread, disorder erupted across the city. Shops, offices and public transport were shut down and a general strike began. At the assembly, six legislators including Manoranjan Dhar, Boshontokumar Das, Shamsuddin Ahmed and Dhirendranath Datta requested that chief minister Nurul Amin visit wounded students in hospital and that the assembly be adjourned as a sign of mourning. This motion was supported by some treasury bench members including Maulana Abdur Rashid Tarkabagish, Shorfuddin Ahmed, Shamsuddin Ahmed Khondokar and Mosihuddin Ahmed. However, Nurul Amin refused the requests.\n\nDisorder spread across the province as large processions ignored section 144 and condemned the actions of the police. More than 30,000 people congregated at Curzon Hall in Dhaka. During the continued protests, police actions led to the death of four more people. This prompted officers and clerks from different organisations, including colleges, banks and the radio station, to boycott offices and join the procession. Protesters burned the offices of two leading pro-government news agencies, the \"Jubilee Press\" and the \"Morning News\". Police fired on a major \"janaza\", or mourning rally, as it was passing through Nawabpur Road. The shooting killed several people including activist Sofiur Rahman and a nine-year-old boy named Ohiullah.\n\nThrough the night of 23 February, students of Dhaka Medical College worked on the construction of a \"Shaheed Smritistombho\", or Monument of Martyrs. Completed at dawn on 24 February, the monument had a handwritten note attached to it with the words \"Shaheed Smritistombho\". Inaugurated by the father of the slain activist Sofiur Rahman, the monument was destroyed on 26 February by police. On 25 February, industrial workers in the town of Narayanganj observed a general strike. A protest followed on 29 February whose participants faced severe police beating.\n\nThe government censored news reports and withheld exact casualty figures during the protests. Most pro-government media held Hindus and communists responsible for encouraging the disorder and student unrest. The families of Abul Barkat and Rafiq Uddin Ahmed tried to charge the police with murder, but the charges were dismissed by the police. On 8 April government report on the incidents failed to show any particular justification for police firings on the students. When the constituent assembly reconvened on 14 April, proceedings were stalled by members of the Muslim League when legislators from East Bengal sought to raise the language issue.\n\nAlthough the Language Movement is considered to have laid the foundations for ethnic nationalism in many of the Bengalis of East Bengal and later East Pakistan, it also heightened the cultural animosity between the authorities of the two wings of Pakistan. In the western wing of the Dominion of Pakistan, the movement was seen as a sectional uprising against Pakistani national interests. The rejection of the \"Urdu-only\" policy was seen as a contravention of the Perso-Arabic culture of Muslims and the founding ideology of Pakistan, the two-nation theory. Some of the most powerful politicians from the western wing of Pakistan considered Urdu a product of Indian Islamic culture, but saw Bengali as a part of \"Hinduized\" Bengali culture. Most stood by the \"Urdu only\" policy because they believed that only a single language, one that was not indigenous to Pakistan, should serve as the national language. This kind of thinking also provoked considerable opposition in the western wing, wherein there existed several linguistic groups. As late as in 1967, military dictator Ayub Khan said, \"East Bengal is ... still under considerable Hindu culture and influence.\"\n\nThe \"Shorbodolio Kendrio Rashtrobhasha Kormi Porishod\", with support from the Awami Muslim League, decided to commemorate 21 February as \"Shohid Dibosh\" . On the first anniversary of the protests, people across East Bengal wore black badges in solidarity with the victims. Most offices, banks and educational institutions were closed to observe the occasion. Student groups made agreements with college and police officials to preserve law and order. More than 100,000 people assembled at a public meeting held in Dhaka, where community leaders called for the immediate release of Maulana Bhashani and other political prisoners. However, West Pakistani politicians such as Fazlur Rahman aggravated sectional tensions by declaring that anyone who wanted Bengali to become an official language would be considered an \"enemy of the state\". Bengali students and civilians disobeyed the restrictions to celebrate the anniversary of the protests. Demonstrations broke out on the night of 21 February 1954 with various halls of the University of Dhaka raising black flags in mourning.\n\nPolitical tensions came to a head as elections to the provincial assembly of East Bengal were held in 1954. The ruling Muslim League denounced the opposition United Front coalition, which—led by A. K. Fazlul Huq and the Awami League—wanted greater provincial autonomy. Several United Front leaders and activists were arrested. A meeting of parliament's Muslim League members, chaired by prime minister Muhammad Ali Bogra, resolved to give official recognition to Bengali. This decision was followed by a major wave of unrest as other ethnic groups sought recognition of other regional languages. Proponents of Urdu such as Maulvi Abdul Haq condemned any proposal to grant official status to Bengali. He led a rally of 100,000 people to protest against the Muslim League's decision. Consequently, the implementation failed and the United Front won a vast majority of seats in the legislative assembly, while the representation of the Muslim League was reduced to a historic low.\n\nThe United Front ministry ordered the creation of the Bangla Academy to promote, develop, and preserve Bengali language, literature, and heritage. However, the United Front rule was temporary, as Governor General Ghulam Muhammad cancelled the government and started Governor's rule on 30 May 1954. The United Front again formed the ministry on 6 June 1955 after the governor's regime ended. The Awami League did not participate in this ministry though.\n\nFollowing the return of the United Front to power, the anniversary on 21 February 1956 was observed for the first time in a peaceful atmosphere. The Government supported a major project to construct a new Shaheed Minar. The session of the constituent assembly was stopped for five minutes to express condolence for the students slain in the police shootings. Major rallies were organised by Bengali leaders and all public offices and businesses remained closed.\n\nOn 7 May 1954, the constituent assembly resolved, with the Muslim League's support, to grant official status to Bengali. Bengali was recognised as the second official language of Pakistan on 29 February 1956, and article 214(1) of the constitution of Pakistan was reworded to \"The state language of Pakistan shall be Urdu and Bengali.\"\n\nHowever, the military government formed by Ayub Khan made attempts to re-establish Urdu as the sole national language. On 6 January 1959, the military regime issued an official statement and reinstated the official stance of supporting the 1956 constitution's policy of two state languages.\n\nOutside East Bengal, movement for equal status of Bengali also took place in the Indian state of Assam. On 19 May 1961, 11 Bengalis were killed in police firing in Silchar Railway Station, Assam, while demanding state recognition of Bengali language. Subsequently, Bengali was given co-official status in the three Bengali-majority districts of Assam.\n\nAlthough the question of official languages was settled by 1956, the military regime of Ayub Khan promoted the interests of West Pakistan at the expense of East Pakistan. Despite forming the majority of the national population, the East Pakistani population continued to be under-represented in the civil and military services, and received a minority of state funding and other government help. This was mainly due to lack of representative government in the fledgling state. Mainly due to regional economic imbalances sectional divisions grew, and support for the Bengali ethnic nationalist Awami League, which invoked the 6-point movement for greater provincial autonomy. One demand was that East Pakistan be called \"Bangladesh\" (Land/Country of Bengal), which subsequently led to the Bangladesh Liberation War.\n\nThe Language Movement had a major cultural impact on Bengali society. It has inspired the development and celebration of the Bengali language, literature and culture. 21 February, celebrated as Language Movement Day or \"Shohid Dibosh\" (Martyrs' Day), is a major national holiday in Bangladesh. A month-long event called the Ekushey Book Fair is held every year to commemorate the movement. \"Ekushey Padak\", one of the highest civilian awards in Bangladesh, is awarded annually in memory of the sacrifices of the movement. Songs such as Abdul Gaffar Choudhury's \"Ekusher Gaan\", set to music by Shaheed Altaf Mahmud, as well as plays, works of art and poetry played a considerable role in rousing the people's emotions during the movement. Since the events of February 1952, poems, songs, novels, plays, films, cartoons and paintings were created to capture the movement from varied point of views. Notable artistic depictions include the poems \"Bornomala, Amar Dukhini Bornomala\" and \"February 1969\" by Shamsur Rahman, the film \"Jibon Theke Neya\" by Zahir Raihan, the stage play \"Kobor\" by Munier Chowdhury and the novels \"Ekushey February\" by Raihan and \"Artonaad\" by Shawkat Osman.\n\nTwo years after the first monument was destroyed by the police, a new \"Shaheed Minar\" (Monument of Martyrs) was constructed in 1954 to commemorate the protesters who lost their lives. Work on a larger monument designed by the architect Hamidur Rahman began in 1957 with the support of the United Front ministry. Hamidur Rahman's model consisted of a large complex in the yard of the Dhaka Medical College Hostel. The design included a half-circular column symbolizing a mother with her martyred sons standing at the dais in the centre of the monument. Although the imposition of martial law in 1958 interrupted the work, the monument was completed and inaugurated on 21 February 1963 by Abul Barkat's mother, Hasina Begum. Pakistani forces demolished the monument during the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, but the Bangladeshi government reconstructed it in 1973. Ekushey Television, the first private terrestrial TV channel of Bangladesh was named after the Event of 21 February.\n\nThe states of West Bengal and Tripura in India also follow and celebrate the Day by paying tribute to the unsung heroes. Moreover, all the bengalees in India and abroad celebrate the Day for the sacrifice of lives just for the sake of the First language.\n\nBangladesh officially sent a proposal to UNESCO to declare 21 February as International Mother Language Day. The proposal was supported unanimously at the 30th General Conference of UNESCO held on 17 November 1999.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3924281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3924281", "title": "Buddhist Peace Fellowship", "text": "Buddhist Peace Fellowship\n\nThe Buddhist Peace Fellowship (BPF) is a nonsectarian international network of engaged Buddhists participating in various forms of nonviolent social activism and environmentalism. The nonprofit BPF is an affiliate of the international Fellowship of Reconciliation working toward global disarmament and peace, helping individuals suffering under governmental tyranny in places such as Burma, Bangladesh, Tibet and Vietnam. Currently headquartered in Oakland, California, BPF was incorporated in 1978 in Hawaii by Robert Baker Aitken, his wife Anne Hopkins Aitken, Nelson Foster, Ryo Imamura and others. Shortly after other notable individuals joined, including Gary Snyder, Alfred Bloom, Joanna Macy and Jack Kornfield. Generally speaking, the BPF has a tendency to approach social issues from a left-wing perspective and, while the fellowship is nonsectarian, the majority of its members are practitioners of Zen.\n\nBPF is currently led by codirectors Katie Loncke and Dawn Haney and a national board of seven individuals.\n\nThe Buddhist Peace Fellowship is a grassroots movement established in 1978 by Robert Baker Aitken and Anne Hopkins Aitken, along with Nelson Foster and others, on the front porch of their Maui Zendo in Hawaii. Sitting around a table, the assembled group discussed nuclear weapons and militarism within the United States in the years following the Vietnam War, finding that these issues must be addressed with compassion from a Buddhist perspective in order to bring about peace. Original members were centered primarily in Hawaii or the San Francisco Bay Area, and by 1979 the group had roughly fifty members. To stay connected, the group formulated a newsletter spearheaded by Nelson Foster which evolved into \"Turning Wheel\"—the quarterly magazine published by the BPF. Today, Turning Wheel Media is an online home for activists and thinkers, writers and readers, a place to bring Buddhist teachings into conversation with the world. By the late 1980s the association had hundreds of members, and the headquarters had moved to office space in Berkeley, California. During this time much of their work was geared toward human rights efforts in areas of the world such as Cambodia, Vietnam and Bangladesh, working particularly hard at freeing Buddhist prisoners of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam. This period in BPF history also was marked by the hiring of a coordinator and the development of national chapters.\n\nBPF went through a turbulent period after longtime executive director Alan Senauke left at the end of 2001. After two executive directors who served less than a year and a period of no clear leadership, board member Maia Duerr was asked to lead the organisation in 2004. During her three-year tenure, the BPF stabilised its finances, and considerable effort were made to bolster its nationwide outreach and include chapters in decision-making processes. Also during this period, Duerr led two \"Buddhist Peace Delegations\" to Washington, D.C., to call for an end to war in Iraq. Since 2012, Co-Directors Katie Loncke and Dawn Haney have supported the organisation's \"Radical Rebirth\" as one focused on present-day issues of racial justice, climate change, and militarisation.\nThe Buddhist Peace Fellowship appeals to Westerners who have embraced Buddhism and who also believe that their chosen path must address the pressing issues of the day. More a religious movement than a political one, the BPF is fuelled by an expressed need to modify or extend traditional spiritual practice.\n\nMany individual activists from different traditions network through the Buddhist Peace Fellowship (BPF), an organisation that facilitates individual and group social engagement in the United States and Asia and often works together with the International Network of Engaged Buddhists (INEB). The BPF is the largest and most effective of the engaged Buddhist networks.\n\nTurning Wheel Media is the online version of BPF's award-winning magazine, Turning Wheel. It provides a platform for lively debate, lifts up Buddhist perspectives on current events, guides inspired readers to groups already taking action, and brings Buddhist teachings into conversation with the world. \n\nDesigned to help promote collective liberation and subvert the highly individualistic bent of much mainstream dharma these days, in 2013 Buddhist Peace Fellowship began offering The System Stinks — a collection of Buddhist social justice media named for the favourite protest sign of one of BPF's founders, Robert Aitken, Roshi. In 2013, the curriculum covered a systemic take on The Five Precepts - violence, theft, sexual misconduct, lying, and intoxication. In 2014, The System Stinks reviewed the Buddha's core teachings on The Four Noble Truths, from seasoned practitioners like Mushim Ikeda, Maia Duerr, Zenju Earthlyn Manuel, and Alan Senauke, as well as newcomers like Funie Hsu and Faith Adiele. Starting in 2015, The System Stinks will cover teachings on The Three Dharma Seals - impermanence, non-self, and liberation.\n\nThe Buddhist Alliance for Social Engagement (BASE) is an extension of the Buddhist Peace Fellowship established in 1995, offering training and internship programs based on the model set forward by the Jesuit Volunteer Corps for social workers, activists and human service workers. It has chapters in various cities in the United States, including Berkeley, California and Boston, Massachusetts, aiming to help professionals integrate their work with Buddhist practice. The idea behind BASE was originally conceived of by Robert Baker Aitken during discussions at a BPF meeting held in Oakland, California in 1992, although it was Diana Winston who ultimately saw this vision through. She was somewhat disheartened to find that many of the BPF members were not actively engaged in meditation, so she set out to develop a \"training program that would integrate Buddhist practice, social engagement, and community life into one organic whole.\"\nBASE is meant to provide for lay American Buddhists the kind of institutional support for the cultivation of socially engaged Buddhism available to Asian monks and nuns who are part of a monastic sangha. But it is also inspired by the BASE community of Latin America, which was founded in the 1970s as a vehicle for Catholic liberation theology...BASE emphasised social engagement as a path of Buddhist practice, not simply as a mode of Buddhist social service.\n\nBASE participants combine weekly meetings for meditation and study with fifteen to thirty hours a week working in hospices, homeless shelters, prisons, medical clinics, and activist organizations.\n\nAnother outgrowth of the BPF is the Buddhist Peace Fellowship Prison Project, a committee within BPF which works with prisoners and their families and other religious groups in an effort to address violence within the criminal justice system. They oppose the implementation of capital punishment and also offer prisons information on chaplaincy opportunities. The committee's founding director was Diana Lion, who also has served as associate director of the Buddhist Peace Fellowship.\n...the BPF Prison project...is attempting to transform the prison system through reforming the prison-industrial complex, abolishing the death penalty, and bringing the teachings of \"dharma\" to those persons confined in prisons and jails...\n\nIn 1993 the Buddhist AIDS Project (BAP), based in San Francisco, California was founded, a non-profit affiliate of the BPF run entirely by volunteers, serving individuals with HIV/AIDS, those who are HIV positive, their families, and their caregivers.\n\nOn Hiroshima Day of August 6, 2005 the Tampa, Florida chapter of BPF organised The Hiroshima Memorial in conjunction with Pax Christi, designed to raise consciousness about the issue of nuclear war. The two groups released \"peace lanterns\" into the air and participants held vigils and various talks. On Hiroshima Day of August 6, 2006, the Buddhist Peace Fellowship of Santa Cruz, California used the occasion to protest the Iraq War. Participants of the group \"displayed a three foot tall, hundred foot long, scroll listing 40,000 names of Iraqi civilians killed in the war. There was also a pair of booths created which listed the names, photos, and brief stories, of over 2,000 US and coalition soldiers who also died in the war.\"\n\nIn October 2007 the Milwaukee chapter of BPF organised a silent \"lakefront demonstration\" to lend their support to the Buddhists of Myanmar protesting the oppression of the military junta there. Plans were made to sneak photographs and information on the Milwaukee event into Myanmar, to let protesters know that there are outsiders standing with them in solidarity. Some members reported being told that their phones were likely bugged in the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28095489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28095489", "title": "Catalan Solidarity for Independence", "text": "Catalan Solidarity for Independence\n\nCatalan Solidarity for Independence (Catalan: \"Solidaritat Catalana per la Independència\", \"SI\"; ) is an electoral coalition in Catalonia, founded in the summer of 2010 as an outcome of the grassroots social movement that initiated and organized the Catalan independence referendums of 2009 and 2010. It was organized as a common political platform for Catalan independentism, dissatisfied with what they considered a pragmatist and conformist policy of other Catalan parties (including the independentist Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya) towards the issue of independence.\n\nCurrently, it is the second largest independentist political force in Catalonia after Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. It had 4 representatives in the Catalan Parliament until the 2012 parliamentary election.\n\nIt was formed on 20 July 2010 by former FC Barcelona president Joan Laporta, the jurist Alfons López Tena (former activist of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia) and the Catalan MP Uriel Bertran (former ERC member) as an umbrella group for various supporters of Catalan independence and the creation of a sovereign state for Catalonia. It was named after Catalan Solidarity, a political coalition of all pro-Catalan parties which existed between 1906 and 1909.\n\nCatalan Solidarity for Independence was formed as an electoral coalition of six political parties (\"Democràcia Catalana\", \"Solidaritat per la Independència\", \"Partit Republicà Català\", \"Els Verds-Alternativa Verda\", \"Catalunya Nació Independència\" and \"Partit Socialista d'Alliberament Nacional\") to stand for the 2010 parliamentary election in Catalonia. Negotiations to incorporate the group Realignment for Independence failed due to a disagreement regarding the compilation of electoral list, and divergence in both tactical and strategic considerations.\n\nIts slogans are: \"Catalonia the next state of Europe\" and \"Let's make independence possible\".\n\nMany public figures have supported the movement, for example Hèctor López Bofill, Toni Strubell, Isabel-Clara Simó, Carles Solà and Josep Guia.\n\nIn the 2010 Catalan elections, it won 3.28% of the vote and 4 deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia, among them the three co-founders. Three were elected in the constituency of Barcelona, and one in the constituency of Girona.\n\nIn 2011, the party's co-founder Joan Laporta left the group. The new party leader was Alfons López Tena.\n\n"}
{"id": "14061140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14061140", "title": "Checkpoint Charlie Museum", "text": "Checkpoint Charlie Museum\n\nThe Checkpoint Charlie Museum () is a private museum in Berlin. It is named after the famous crossing point on the Berlin Wall, and was created to document the so-called \"best border security system in the world\" (in the words of East German general Heinz Hoffmann). On display are the photos and related documents of successful escape attempts from East Germany, together with the escape apparatus: hot-air balloons, getaway cars, chairlifts, and a mini-U-Boat. The museum researches and maintains a list of deaths at the Berlin Wall. It is operated by the \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft 13. August\" (August 13th Working Group), and the director is Alexandra Hildebrandt.\n\nThe \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft 13. August\" is an association named after the date the Berlin Wall was constructed. It was formed with the purpose to fight against human rights violations as a result of the wall, and to create solutions through activities such as press conferences, publishing, and exhibitions. The museum project began as an exhibition by founding director and human rights activist Rainer Hildebrandt. According to Hildebrandt: \"The first exhibition opened on the 19 October 1962 in an apartment with only two and a half rooms in famous Bernauer Straße. The street was divided along its whole length; the buildings in the east had been vacated and their windows were bricked up. We suggested that tourists be thankful to those border guards who do not shoot to kill\".\n\nOn 14th June 1963, the museum opened in its permanent location on Friedrichstraße, known as \"Haus am Checkpoint Charlie\". The \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft 13. August e. V.\" was formally registered with the city as a \"Verein\" (association) on 16 July 1963. The museum in its early days was known for its jumbled and chaotic exhibition style, with many objects and relics displayed without the usual organization of a conventional museum. It was also a political center, and actively involved in planning and assisting escapes. It featured a library, films, lectures, and a publishing operation.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the corresponding considerable reduction in its public grant money, under the leadership of Alexandra Hildebrandt the museum evolved into a private undertaking, which \"reinvented the former political center as a 'place of experience.'\" It operated, in the words of Hildebrandt, \"according to business principles\", soon earning seven-digit profits and becoming the most commercially successful museum in Europe. In 2002, the \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft 13. August\" gave up its charitable status and thus its remaining grants and tax breaks.\n\nIt is now one of the most frequently visited museums in Berlin, with more than 850,000 visitors annually. In recent years, the museum has continued to add to its exhibitions on the international struggle for human rights, bringing attention to the cases of Sergei Magnitsky and others.\n\nIn 2004, Alexandra Hildebrandt installed the Freedom Memorial to the victims of the border forces, in a nearby empty lot. The memorial was removed the following year, after the lease on the land was terminated by the owner. Both the memorial and its removal were the subjects of some criticism and controversy.\n\nAn exhibition of photographs, writing, and objects, documenting the Berlin Wall and escapes across it, during the time it stood.\n\nA history of divided Berlin, following World War II to its reunification.\n\nThe many historical events that took place at Checkpoint Charlie are presented.\n\nA focus on various contraptions and ingenious vehicles, used to successfully evade the East German border security.\n\nPortrayals of non-violent protest around the world, and how similar methods were used in Germany.\n\nA new permanent exhibition focusing on international and diplomatic contexts opened in March, 2012. NATO General Secretary Anders F. Rasmussen visited the exhibition in May, 2012.\n\nA celebration of President Reagan's life and work, and his contribution to the tearing down of the Berlin Wall.\n\nIn 2012, a new permanent exhibition on the life and work of Raoul Wallenberg opened.\n\nMikhail Khodorkovsky held a press conference upon his release in December 2013 at the museum. He gave thanks to the media, former German foreign minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, and German chancellor Angela Merkel for their assistance in securing his release. He expressed gratitude to the museum for hosting the press conference and for providing moral support in relation to its exhibition section about his situation, while he was imprisoned. According to museum director Alexandra Hildebrandt, it was she who in 2011 encouraged Genscher to become involved in the diplomatic efforts to release Khodorkovsky.\n\nThe museum installed an exhibition of the works of Nadiya Savchenko in 2016, and helped in the efforts to secure her release from prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "30819921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30819921", "title": "Convention on the recognition of decisions recording a sex reassignment", "text": "Convention on the recognition of decisions recording a sex reassignment\n\nThe Convention on the recognition of decisions recording a sex reassignment () is a multilateral convention, drafted by the International Commission on Civil Status which provides the acceptance in other countries of decisions by the authorities (courts or administrative divisions) on a sex change. Sex changes of nationals or residents are recognized in the other member states if the sex change has been performed physically (and is recorded as such). This is registered in a change of the birth certificate.\n\nThe convention has been ratified by Spain and the Netherlands. It has been signed but not ratified by Austria, Germany and Greece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34039051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34039051", "title": "Cyrus's edict", "text": "Cyrus's edict\n\nThe Edict of Cyrus is part of the biblical narrative about the return from Babylonian captivity. The edict is thrice mentioned in the Hebrew Bible, each time with minor textual variations and additions. It is presented as authorizing and encouraging the Jews exiled by Nebuchadnezzar to relocate to the Land of Israel and actively engage in rebuilding the temple destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar. The historical background of the narrative is confirmed by archaeology, but the edict as such is not corroborated by any finds; its existence as one single legal act, rather than a general policy of repatriation, is contested.\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder, an ancient clay cylinder on which is written a declaration in the name of Cyrus referring to restoration of temples and repatriation of exiled peoples, has often been taken as corroboration of the authenticity of the biblical decrees attributed to Cyrus, but other scholars point out that the cylinder's text is specific to Babylon and Mesopotamia and makes no mention of Judah or Jerusalem.\n\nThe initial text (based on the view that the book of Ezra is a continuum of the text of Chronicles) of Cyrus's edict:\n\nThe second mentioning as found in the book of Ezra:\n\nThe book of Ezra relays how the people of Cutha, known in Hebrew as \"Cuthim\" and quoted as the \"adversaries\" of the returning exiles, initiated a request to join in the Second Temple construction, when rebuffed by Zerubbabel and his companions, they spitefully composed a letter of complaint to Artaxerxes of Persia:\n\nThe commentary work of Rabbi Meïr Weiser (b. Mar. 7, 1809; d. Kiev Sept. 18, 1879) advances the notion that the party of Mithredath Tabeel took advantage of the document's translation protocol of Cyrus the Great's government. Essentially the protocol that each country of his kingdom was entitled to speak their unique language and pen texts to the king in their native tongue and have the presiding local officers of Artaxerxes of Persia translate the document.\n\nRabbi Weiser continues that Mithredath Tabeel presented a substantial bribe to Rehum the secretary and Shimshai the scribe, to compose a letter containing a plausible ambiguity while inciting that the post-exile temple builders have varied the kings edict by actively engaging in the construction and fortification of the walls of Jerusalem in an attempt to rebel against the foreign king's rule.\n\nThe ploy of Mithredath Tabeel and company was successful in leading to a 14-year cessation of all temple building activity in Jerusalem.\n\nFollowing a second letter sent by the Persian governor asking the king for a decision, the Edict is found in the archives and the king gives his orders accordingly.\n"}
{"id": "2676248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2676248", "title": "Democratic Socialist Party (Morocco)", "text": "Democratic Socialist Party (Morocco)\n\nThe Democratic Socialist Party () () is a political party in Morocco.\n\nThe party was founded in 1996 as a split from the Organisation de l'Action Démocratique Populaire over the constitutional referendum held in September 1996.\n\nIn the parliamentary election held on 27 September 2002, the party won 6 out of 325 seats. In the next parliamentary election, held on 7 September 2007, the party did not win any seats, as it merged with the USFP in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "26386295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26386295", "title": "Economists for Peace and Security", "text": "Economists for Peace and Security\n\nEconomists for Peace and Security (EPS) is a New York-based, United Nations accredited and registered global organization and network of thought leading economists, political scientists, and security experts founded in 1989 that promotes non-military solutions to world challenges, and more broadly, works towards freedom from fear and freedom from want for all.\n\nSince 1995 EPS has been registered with the United Nations Economic and Social Council and the United Nations Department of Public Information. Since 2006 the UK branch of EPS publishes a peer reviewed journal, the \"Economists for Peace and Security Journal\" (EPSJ).\n\nIn 1995 EPS was involved with criticism of the United States Navy in Vieques, Puerto Rico, producing several reports on the subject.\n\nNotable trustees of EPS include Kenneth Arrow and Lawrence Klein (founding trustees); Amartya Sen, Robert Reich and Óscar Arias. James K. Galbraith was named Chair of the Board of Directors in 1996.\n\nOn July 21st, 2017, EPS co hosted a conference on NATO and the future of the transatlantic defense partnersh with the Royal Military Academy brussels, which emphasized discussion on the geostrategic changes and economic trends in global defense. Topics included regional security, economics of security, globalization and global security, economics of conflict and war, economics of the arms trade, arms races and alliances, and the economics of terrorism. \n\nInspired by International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, it was founded in 1989 as \"Economists Against the Arms Race\" (ECAAR), before becoming \"Economists Allied for Arms Reduction\" (ECAAR) in 1993. It adopted its present name in 2005. Stockbroker Robert J. Schwartz led its creation.\n\nThe Economists for Peace and Security Board of Trustees has seventeen Nobel peace prize laureates in the prize for economics, including Joseph Stiglitz, Amartya Sen of Harvard University, Lawrence Klein, Óscar Arias, George Akerlof, Kenneth Arrow, Daniel McFadden, Roger Myerson, Thomas Schelling, William F. Sharpe of Stanford University, Robert Solow, Franco Modigliani of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Sir Clive Granger, Wassily Leontief, Douglass North, Jan Tinbergen, and James Tobin of Harvard University and Yale University.<ref>EPS USA,Trustees\n\nOther notable trustees include Former US Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, Former Prime Minister of Greece George Papandreou, Former US Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara.<ref>EPS USA, Trustees\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5410738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5410738", "title": "Ethyl pentanoate", "text": "Ethyl pentanoate\n\nEthyl pentanoate, also commonly known as ethyl valerate, is an organic compound used in flavors. It is an ester with the molecular formula CHO. This colorless liquid is poorly soluble in water but miscible with organic solvents.\n\nAs is the case with most volatile esters, it has a pleasant aroma and taste. It is used as a food additive to impart a fruity flavor, particularly of apple.\n"}
{"id": "31835404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31835404", "title": "Focal socialisation agency", "text": "Focal socialisation agency\n\nFocal socialisation agency (or focal socialization agency) in sociology is the name given to the agency which is most influential in process of socialisation upon an individual. Typically the first focal socialisation agency is the family but is usually succeeded in this role by the education system upon the entering of education.\n\n"}
{"id": "52953373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52953373", "title": "Hardware backdoor", "text": "Hardware backdoor\n\nHardware backdoors are backdoors in hardware, such as code inside hardware or firmware of computer chips. The backdoors may be directly implemented as hardware Trojans in the integrated circuit.\n\nHardware backdoors are intended to undermine security in smartcards and other cryptoprocessors unless investment is made in anti-backdoor design methods. They have also been considered for car hacking.\n\nHardware backdoors are considered highly problematic because:\n\n\nSkorobogatov has developed a technique capable of detecting malicious insertions into chips.\n\nNew York University Tandon School of Engineering researchers have developed a way to corroborate a chip's operation using verifiable computing whereby \"manufactured for sale\" chips contain an embedded verification module that proves the chip's calculations are correct and an associated external module validates the embedded verification module. Another technique developed by researchers at University College London (UCL) relies on distributing trust between multiple identical chips from disjoint supply chains. Assuming that at least one of those chips remains honest the security of the device is preserved.\n\nChina is the world's largest manufacturer of hardware which gives it unequaled capabilities for hardware backdoors. Michael Maloof, a former senior security policy analyst in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, states the Chinese government ordered backdoors to be installed in devices made by Huawei and ZTE Corporation and also sources this with a recent passage of China's new anti-terrorism law that requires telecommunications operators and Internet service providers to provide the Chinese government with \"backdoor\" access to their products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "403286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403286", "title": "Hilaire Belloc", "text": "Hilaire Belloc\n\nJoseph Hilaire Pierre René Belloc (; ; 27 July 187016 July 1953) was an Anglo-French writer and historian. He was one of the most prolific writers in England during the early twentieth century. He was known as a writer, orator, poet, sailor, satirist, man of letters, soldier and political activist. His Catholic faith had a strong impact on his works. He was President of the Oxford Union and later MP for Salford from 1906 to 1910. He was a noted disputant, with a number of long-running feuds, but also widely regarded as a humane and sympathetic man. Belloc became a naturalised British subject in 1902, while retaining his French citizenship.\n\nHis poetry encompassed comic verses for children and religious poetry. His widely sold \"Cautionary Tales for Children\" included \"Jim, who ran away from his nurse, and was eaten by a lion\" and \"Matilda, who told lies and was burnt to death\". He also collaborated with G. K. Chesterton on a number of works.\n\nBelloc was born in La Celle-Saint-Cloud, France to a French father, Louis Belloc (1830-1872) and an English mother. His sister Marie Adelaide Belloc Lowndes also grew up to be a writer.\n\nHis mother Bessie Rayner Parkes (1829–1925) was a writer, activist, and a major force in efforts to gain greater equality for women, being a co-founder of the \"English Woman's Journal\" and the Langham Place Group. Belloc himself campaigned against women's suffrage; he was a member of the Women's National Anti-Suffrage League. Her father was Joseph Parkes (1796–1865), a prosperous solicitor and a liberal with Radical sympathies. Her mother, Elizabeth Rayner Priestley (1797–1877), was born in the United States, a granddaughter of the polymath Joseph Priestley. In 1867, Bessie married attorney Louis Belloc, son of the French painter Jean-Hilaire Belloc. In 1872, five years after they wed, Louis died, but not before being wiped out financially in a stock market crash. The young widow then brought her children back to England.\n\nHilaire Belloc grew up in England, and would spend most of his life there. His boyhood was spent in Slindon, West Sussex, for which he often felt homesick in later life, as evidenced in poems such as \"West Sussex Drinking Song\", \"The South Country\", and even the more melancholy, \"Ha'nacker Mill\". After being educated at John Henry Newman's Oratory School in Edgbaston, Birmingham, Belloc served his term of military service, as a French citizen, with an artillery regiment near Toul in 1891. Belloc proceeded to Balliol College, Oxford, as a history scholar. He went on to obtain first-class honours, and never lost his love for Balliol, as is illustrated by his verse, \"Balliol made me, Balliol fed me/ Whatever I had she gave me again\".\n\nHe was powerfully built, with great stamina, and walked extensively in Britain and Europe. While courting his future wife Elodie Hogan (1868–1914), an American whom he first met in 1890, the impecunious Belloc walked a good part of the way from the midwest of the United States to her home in northern California, \"paying\" for lodging at remote farm houses and ranches by sketching the owners and reciting poetry. The couple married in 1896.\n\nIn 1906, he purchased land and a house called King's Land at Shipley, West Sussex, where he brought up his family and lived until shortly before his death. Elodie and Belloc had five children before her 1914 death from influenza. After her death, Belloc wore mourning for the remainder of his life, keeping her room exactly as she had left it.\n\nHis son Louis was killed in 1918 while serving in the Royal Flying Corps in northern France. Belloc placed a memorial tablet at the nearby Cambrai Cathedral. It is in the same side chapel as the noted icon Our Lady of Cambrai.\n\nDuring the Second World War his son Peter Gilbert Marie Sebastian Belloc died at age 36 of pneumonia on 2 April 1941. He fell ill while on active service with the 5th Battalion of the Royal Marines in Scotland. He is buried in West Grinstead at Our Lady of Consolation and St. Francis churchyard.\n\nIn 1937, Belloc was invited to be a visiting professor at Fordham University by university president Robert Gannon. Belloc delivered a series of lectures at Fordham which he completed in May of that year. While pleased to accept the invitation, the experience left him physically exhausted and he considered stopping the lectures early.\n\nBelloc suffered a stroke in 1941 and never recovered from its effects. He died on 16 July 1953 at Mount Alvernia Nursing Home in Guildford, Surrey, from burns and shock following a fall he had while placing a log into a fireplace at King's Land. He is buried at the Shrine of Our Lady of Consolation of West Grinstead, where he had regularly attended Mass as a parishioner.\n\nRecent biographies of Belloc have been written by A. N. Wilson and Joseph Pearce, and Jesuit political philosopher James Schall's \"Remembering Belloc\" was published by St. Augustine Press in September 2013.\n\nAn 1895 graduate of Balliol College, Oxford, Belloc was a noted figure within the University, being President of the Oxford Union, the undergraduate debating society. He went into politics after he became a naturalised British subject. A great disappointment in his life was his failure to gain a fellowship of All Souls College, Oxford in 1895. This failure may have been caused in part by his producing a small statue of the Virgin and placing it before him on the table during the interview for the fellowship.\n\nFrom 1906 to 1910 he was a Liberal Party Member of Parliament for Salford South. During one campaign speech he was asked by a heckler if he was a \"papist.\" Retrieving his rosary from his pocket he responded, \"Sir, so far as possible I hear Mass each day and I go to my knees and tell these beads each night. If that offends you, then I pray God may spare me the indignity of representing you in Parliament.\" The crowd cheered and Belloc won the election.\n\nHis only period of steady employment was from 1914 to 1920 as editor of \"Land and Water\", a journal devoted to the progress of the war. Otherwise he lived by his writing and was often impecunious.\n\nBelloc first came to public attention shortly after arriving at Balliol College, Oxford as a recent French army veteran. Attending his first debate of the Oxford Union Debating Society, he saw that the affirmative position was wretchedly and half-heartedly defended. As the debate drew to its conclusion and the division of the house was called, he rose from his seat in the audience, and delivered a vigorous, impromptu defence of the proposition. Belloc won that debate from the audience, as the division of the house then showed, and his reputation as a debater was established. He was later elected president of the Union. He held his own in debates there with F. E. Smith and John Buchan, the latter a friend.\n\nHe was at his most effective in the 1920s, on the attack against H. G. Wells's \"The Outline of History\", in which he criticised Wells' secular bias and his belief in evolution by means of natural selection, a theory that Belloc asserted had been completely discredited. Wells remarked that \"Debating Mr. Belloc is like arguing with a hailstorm\". Belloc's review of \"Outline of History\" famously observed that Wells' book was a powerful and well-written volume, \"up until the appearance of Man, that is, somewhere around page seven.\" Wells responded with a small book, \"Mr. Belloc Objects\". Not to be outdone, Belloc followed with, \"Mr. Belloc Still Objects.\"\n\nG. G. Coulton, a keen and persistent opponent, wrote on \"Mr. Belloc on Medieval History\" in a 1920 article. After a long simmering feud, Belloc replied with a booklet, \"The Case of Dr. Coulton\", in 1938.\n\nHis style during later life fulfilled the nickname he received in childhood, \"Old Thunder\". Belloc's friend, Lord Sheffield, described his provocative personality in a preface to \"The Cruise of the Nona.\"\n\nDuring his later years, he would sail when he could afford to do so and became a well-known yachtsman. He won many races and was on the French sailing team. In the early 1930s, he was given an old Jersey pilot cutter, called \"Jersey\". He sailed this for some years around the coasts of England, with the help of younger men. One of them, Dermod MacCarthy, wrote a book about his time on the water with Belloc, called \"Sailing with Mr Belloc\".\n\nThe prolific author of more than 150 books, Belloc wrote on myriad subjects, from warfare to poetry to the many current topics of his day. He has been called one of the Big Four of Edwardian Letters, along with H.G.Wells, George Bernard Shaw, and G. K. Chesterton, all of whom debated with each other into the 1930s. Belloc was closely associated with Chesterton, and Shaw coined the term Chesterbelloc for their partnership. He was co-editor with Cecil Chesterton of the literary periodical the \"Eye Witness\", published until 1912 by Charles Granville's Stephen Swift Ltd. The paper was later called the \"New Witness\", and still later, \"G. K.'s Weekly\".\n\nAsked once why he wrote so much, he responded, \"Because my children are howling for pearls and caviar.\" Belloc observed that \"The first job of letters is to get a canon,\" that is, to identify those works a writer sees as exemplary of the best of prose and verse. For his own prose style, he claimed to aspire to be as clear and concise as \"Mary had a little lamb.\"\n\nHis best travel writing has secured a permanent following. \"The Path to Rome\" (1902), an account of a walking pilgrimage he made from central France across the Alps and down to Rome, has remained continuously in print. More than a mere travelogue, \"The Path to Rome\" contains descriptions of the people and places he encountered, his drawings in pencil and in ink of the route, humour, poesy, and the reflections of a large mind turned to the events of his time as he marches along his solitary way. His book \"The Pyrenees\", published in 1909, shows a depth of detailed knowledge of that region such as would only be gained from personal experience. At every turn, Belloc shows himself to be profoundly in love with Europe and with the Faith that he claims has produced it.\n\nAs an essayist he was one of a small, admired and dominant group (with Chesterton, E. V. Lucas and Robert Lynd) of popular writers.\n\nHis \"Cautionary Tales for Children\"; humorous poems with an implausible moral, illustrated by Basil Temple Blackwood (signing as \"B.T.B.\") and later by Edward Gorey, are the most widely known of his writings. Supposedly for children, they, like Lewis Carroll's works, are more to adult and satirical tastes: \"Henry King, Who chewed bits of string and was early cut off in dreadful agonies\". A similar poem tells the story of \"Rebecca, who slammed doors for fun and perished miserably\".\n\nThe tale of \"Matilda who told lies and was burnt to death\" was adapted into the play \"Matilda Liar!\" by Debbie Isitt. Quentin Blake, the illustrator, described Belloc as at one and the same time the overbearing adult and mischievous child. Roald Dahl was a follower. But Belloc has broader if sourer scope. For example, with Lord Lundy (who was \"far too freely moved to Tears\"):\n\nleading up to\n\ninstead, Lundy is condemned to the ultimate political wilderness:\n\nOf more weight are Belloc's \"Sonnets and Verses\", a volume that deploys the same singing and rhyming techniques of his children's verses. Belloc's poetry is often religious, often romantic; throughout \"The Path to Rome\" he writes in spontaneous song.\n\nThree of his best-known non-fiction works are \"The Servile State\" (1912), \"Europe and Faith\" (1920) and \"The Jews\" (1922).\n\nFrom an early age Belloc knew Cardinal Henry Edward Manning, who was responsible for the conversion of his mother to Roman Catholicism. In \"The Cruise of the \"Nona\"\" (1925), he mentions a \"profound thing\" that Manning said to him when he was just twenty years old: \"All human conflict is ultimately theological.\" What Manning meant, Belloc explains, is \"that all wars and revolutions, and all decisive struggles between parties of men arise from a difference in moral and transcendental doctrine.\" Belloc adds that he never met any man, \"arguing for what should be among men, but took for granted as he argued that the doctrine he consciously or unconsciously accepted was or should be a similar foundation for all mankind. Hence battle.\" Manning's involvement in the 1889 London Dock Strike made a major impression on Belloc and his view of politics, according to biographer Robert Speaight. He became a trenchant critic both of capitalism and of many aspects of socialism.\n\nWith others (G. K. Chesterton, Cecil Chesterton, Arthur Penty) Belloc had envisioned the socioeconomic system of distributism. In \"The Servile State\", written after his party-political career had come to an end, and other works, he criticised the modern economic order and parliamentary system, advocating distributism in opposition to both capitalism and socialism. Belloc made the historical argument that distributism was not a fresh perspective or program of economics but rather a proposed return to the economics that prevailed in Europe for the thousand years when it was Catholic. He called for the dissolution of Parliament and its replacement with committees of representatives for the various sectors of society, an idea that was also popular among Fascists, under the name of corporatism.\n\nWith these linked themes in the background, he wrote a long series of contentious biographies of historical figures, including Oliver Cromwell, James II, and Napoleon. They show him as an ardent proponent of orthodox Catholicism and a critic of many elements of the modern world.\n\nOutside academe, Belloc was impatient with what he considered axe-grinding histories, especially what he called \"official history.\" Joseph Pearce notes also Belloc's attack on the secularism of H. G. Wells's popular \"Outline of History\":\n\n\"Belloc objected to his adversary's tacitly anti-Christian stance, epitomized by the fact that Wells had devoted more space in his \"history\" to the Persian campaign against the Greeks than he had given to the figure of Christ.\"\n\nHe wrote also substantial amounts of military history. In alternative history, he contributed to the 1931 collection \"If It Had Happened Otherwise\" edited by Sir John Squire.\n\nIgnatius Press of California and IHS Press of Virginia have reissued Belloc. TAN Books of Charlotte, North Carolina, publishes a number of Belloc's works, particularly his historical writings.\n\nOne of Belloc's most famous statements was \"the faith is Europe and Europe is the faith\"; this sums up his strongly held, orthodox Catholic views, and the cultural conclusions he drew from them. Those views were expressed at length in many of his works from the period 1920–40. These are still cited as exemplary of Catholic apologetics. They have also been criticised, for instance by comparison with the work of Christopher Dawson during the same period.\n\nAs a young man, Belloc lost his faith. Then came a spiritual event, which he never discussed publicly, that returned him to Catholicism for the remainder of his life. Belloc alludes to this return to the faith in a passage in \"The Cruise of the Nona\". According to his biographer A. N. Wilson (\"Hilaire Belloc\", Hamish Hamilton), Belloc never wholly apostatised from the Faith (ibid p. 105). The momentous event is fully described by Belloc in \"The Path to Rome\" (pp. 158–61). It took place in the French village of Undervelier at the time of Vespers. Belloc said of it, \"not without tears\", \"I considered the nature of Belief\" and \"it is a good thing not to have to return to the faith\". (See \"Hilaire Belloc\" by Wilson at pp. 105–06.)\n\nBelloc's Catholicism was uncompromising. He believed that the Catholic Church provided hearth and home for the human spirit. More humorously, his tribute to Catholic culture can be understood from his well-known saying, \"Wherever the Catholic sun does shine, there's always laughter and good red wine.\" He had a disparaging view of the Church of England, and used sharp words to describe heretics, such as, \"Heretics all, whoever you may be/ In Tarbes or Nimes or over the sea/ You never shall have good words from me/ Caritas non-conturbat me\". Indeed, in his \"Song of the Pelagian Heresy\" he becomes quite strident, describing how the Bishop of Auxerre, \"with his stout Episcopal staff/ So thoroughly thwacked and banged/ The heretics all, both short and tall/ They rather had been hanged\".\n\nBelloc sent his son Louis to Downside School 1911–1915. Louis's biography and death in August 1918 is recorded in \"Downside and the War\".\n\nBelloc's 1937 book \"The Crusades: the World's Debate\", he wrote, \n\nIn \"The Great Heresies\" (1938), Belloc argues that although \"That Mohammedan culture happens to have fallen back in material applications; there is no reason whatever why it should not learn its new lesson and become our equal in all those temporal things which now \"alone\" give us our superiority over it—whereas in \"Faith\" we have fallen inferior to it.\"\n\nBelloc continued:\n\n\"There is no reason why its recent inferiority in mechanical construction, whether military or civilian, should continue indefinitely. Even a slight accession of material power would make the further control of Islam by an alien culture difficult. A little more and there will cease that which our time has taken for granted, the physical domination of Islam by the disintegrated Christendom we know.\"\n\nAt the time of his writing, the Islamic world was still largely under the rule of the European colonial powers and the threat to Britain was from Fascism and Nazism. Belloc, however, considered that Islam was permanently intent on destroying the Christian faith, as well as the West, which Christendom had built. In \"The Great Heresies\", Belloc grouped the Protestant Reformation together with Islam as one of the major heresies threatening the \"Universal Church\".\n\nBelloc's attitude towards Judaism has been a subject of controversy.\n\nBelloc took a leading role in denouncing the Marconi scandal of 1912, in which government ministers were caught insider trading. Belloc emphasized that key players in both the government and the Marconi corporation had been Jewish. Jewish historian Todd Edelman identifies Catholic writers as central critics. In his opinion:The most virulent attacks in the Marconi affair were launched by Hilaire Belloc and the brothers Cecil and G.K. Chesterton, whose hostility to Jews was linked to their opposition to liberalism, their backward-looking Catholicism, and the nostalgia for a medieval Catholic Europe that they imagined was ordered, harmonious, and homogeneous. The Jew baiting at the time of the Boer War and the Marconi scandal was linked to a broader protest, mounted in the main by the Radical wing of the Liberal Party, against the growing visibility of successful businessmen in national life and their challenges to what were seen as traditional English values.A. N. Wilson's biography expresses the belief that Belloc tended to allude to Jews negatively in conversation, sometimes obsessively. Anthony Powell mentions in his review of that biography that in his view Belloc was thoroughly antisemitic, at all but a personal level.\n\nFrom his days in politics onwards, Belloc repeatedly demonstrated a belief that Jewish people had significant control over society and the world of finance. In \"The Cruise of the Nona\", Belloc reflected equivocally on the Dreyfus Affair after thirty years. Norman Rose's book \"The Cliveden Set\" (2000) asserts that Belloc 'was moved by a deep vein of hysterical anti-semitism'.\n\nIn his 1922 book, \"The Jews\", Belloc argued that \"the continued presence of the Jewish nation intermixed with other nations alien to it presents a permanent problem of the gravest character,\" and that the \"Catholic Church is the conservator of an age-long European tradition, and that tradition will never compromise with the fiction that a Jew can be other than a Jew. Wherever the Catholic Church has power, and in proportion to its power, the Jewish problem will be recognized to the full.\"\n\nRobert Speaight cited a letter by Belloc in which he pilloried Nesta Webster because of her accusations against \"the Jews\". In February 1924, Belloc wrote to an American Jewish friend regarding an antisemitic book by Webster. Webster had rejected Christianity, studied Eastern religions, accepted the Hindu concept of the equality of all religions and was fascinated by theories of reincarnation and ancestral memory. Speaight also points out that when faced with antisemitism in practice—as at elitist country clubs in the United States before World War II—he voiced his disapproval. Belloc also condemned Nazi antisemitism in \"The Catholic and the War\" (1940).\n\nBelloc grew up in Slindon and spent most of his life in West Sussex. He always wrote of Sussex as if it were the crown of England and the western Sussex Downs the jewel in that crown. He loved Sussex to the point of idolatry as the place where he was brought up and as his spiritual home. Belloc wrote several works about Sussex including \"Ha'nacker Mill\", \"The South Country\", the travel guide \"Sussex\" (1906) and \"The County of Sussex\" (1936). One of his best-known works relating to Sussex is \"\" (1911), in which the four characters, each aspects of Belloc's personality, travel on a pilgrimage across the county from Robertsbridge in the far east to Harting in the far west. The work has influenced others including Sussex folk musician Bob Copper, who retraced Belloc's steps in the 1980s. Belloc was also a lover of Sussex songs and wrote lyrics for some songs which have since been put to music. Belloc is remembered in an annual celebration in Sussex, known as Belloc Night, that takes place on the writer's birthday, 27 July, in the manner of Burns Night in Scotland. The celebration includes reading from Belloc's work and partaking of a bread and cheese supper with pickles.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "652214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652214", "title": "Hung parliament", "text": "Hung parliament\n\nA hung parliament is a term used in legislatures under the Westminster system to describe a situation in which no particular political party or pre-existing coalition (also known as an alliance or bloc) has an absolute majority of legislators (commonly known as members or seats) in a parliament or other legislature. This situation is also known, albeit less commonly, as a balanced parliament, or as a legislature under no overall control, and can result in a minority government. The term is not relevant in multi-party systems where it is rare for a single party to hold a majority.\n\nIn the Westminster System, in the circumstance of a hung parliament, no party or coalition has an automatic mandate to assume control of the executive – a status usually known in parliamentary systems as \"forming (a) government\". However, an absolute majority may still be gained through the formation of a new coalition government, or the addition of previously unaffiliated members to a pre-existing coalition. However, a minority government may instead result: that is, the party that has the most members is allowed to form government without an absolute majority, provided that it has the express, ongoing support of unaffiliated members, such as minor parties and/or independent legislators.\n\nA normal objective of parliamentary systems – especially those requiring responsible government, such as the Westminster system – is the formation of a stable government (i.e. ideally one that lasts a full parliamentary term, until the next election would normally be due). This requires a government to be able to muster sufficient votes in parliament to pass motions of confidence and supply, especially motions of no-confidence and budget bills). If such motions fail, they normally result in the dissolution of parliament and a fresh election. In some parliamentary systems, however, a new government may be formed without recourse to an election – if, for example, a minor party holds the balance of power, it may publicly express for the opposition, thereby creating a new majority.\n\nThe term hung parliament is most often used of parliaments dominated by two major parties or coalitions. General elections in such systems usually result in one party having an absolute majority and thus quickly forming a new government. In most parliamentary systems, a hung parliament is considered exceptional and is often seen by all parties and observers as undesirable. In other contexts, a hung parliament may be seen as ideal – for example, if opinions among the voting public are polarised regarding one or more issues, a hung parliament may lead to the emergence of a compromise or consensus.\n\nIf a legislature is bicameral, the term \"hung parliament\" is usually used only with respect to the lower house.\n\nIn a multi-party system with legislators elected by proportional representation or a similar systems, it is usually exceptionally rare and difficult for any party to have an absolute majority. Under such situations, hung parliaments are often taken for granted and coalition governments are normal. However, the term may be used to describe an election in which no established coalition wins an outright majority (such as the German federal election of 2005 or the 2018 Italian general election).\n\nBecause Ireland uses PR-STV, it is rare for any one party to have a majority on its own. \nThe last such occasion was 1977. However, one or other coalitions are known to be possible before and during the election. Therefore, a \"hung Dáil\" (Dáil Éireann being the lower and most dominant chamber of the Oireachtas/Parliament) in Ireland refers more to the inability of a coalition of parties who traditionally enter government together or would be expected to govern together, from doing so.\n\nThe President has no direct role in the formation of governments in the case of a hung parliament. However he retains the power to convene a meeting of either or both the Dáil and Senate which could become important if there was a government trying to use parliamentary recess to prevent confidence votes and hold onto power. The President may also refuse to dissolve Dáil Eireann and call an election if the Taoiseach loses a vote of confidence, instead giving the other parties a chance to see if they can put together a government without proceeding to another election.\n\nIn 2016, Fine Gael and Labour, who had been in government the previous five years, were unable, due to Labours collapse, to enter government again. Fianna Fáil had enough seats to put together a rainbow government with the other centre-left, hard left parties and independents but negotiations broke down. Fianna Fáil had also promised not to enter coalition with Sinn Féin due to the current leaderships Provisional IRA connections.\n\nThe press began to speculate about a Germany style \"Grand Coalition\" similar to the Christian Democrats and Social Democrats there. Many members of FF considered FG too right wing to enter coalition with and threatened to leave the party this came to pass. As talks continued on without a new government (the old government, constitutionally, which had just been voted out, remaining in power including ministers who had lost their seats) FF agreed to allow a government to form by abstention. The parliamentary arithmetic fell in such a way that if FF TD's abstained on confidence and supply matters, a FG minority govt could, with the support of a group of independents, form a new government. This was agreed in exchange for a number of policy concessions. \nOnce the deal with FF was signed, Taoiseach Enda Kenny conducted talks with the independents and entered government for a second term.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, before World War I, a largely stable two-party system existed for generations; traditionally, only the Tories and Whigs, or from the mid-19th century the Conservative and Liberal parties, managed to deliver Members of Parliament in significant numbers. Hung parliaments were thus rare, especially during the 19th century. The possibility of change arose when, in the aftermath of the Act of Union, 1800, a number of Irish MPs took seats in the House, though initially these followed the traditional alignments. However, two Reform Acts (in 1867 and in 1884) significantly extended the franchise and redrew the constituencies, and coincided with a change in Irish politics. After the 1885 general election, neither party had an overall majority. The Irish Parliamentary Party held the balance of power and made Irish Home Rule a condition of their support. However, the Liberal Party split on the issue of Irish Home Rule, leading to another general election in 1886, in which the Conservatives won the most seats and governed with the support of the fragment of Liberalism opposed to Home Rule, the Liberal Unionist Party.\n\nBoth the election of January 1910, and that of December 1910 produced a hung parliament with an almost identical number of seats won by the governing Liberal Party and the Conservative Party. This was due both to the constitutional crisis and to the rise of the Labour Party. The elections of 1929 resulted in the last hung parliament for many years; in the meantime, Labour had replaced the Liberals as one of the two dominating parties.\n\nSince the elections of 1929, there have been three general elections that resulted in hung parliaments in the UK. The first was the election in February 1974, and the ensuing parliament lasted only until October. The second was the May 2010 election, the result of which was a hung parliament with the Conservative party as the largest single party. The results for the 3 main parties were: Conservatives 306, Labour 258, Liberal Democrats 57. The third one resulted from the snap election held in June 2017 that had been called for by Theresa May in order to strengthen her majority heading into Brexit negotiations later in 2017. However, this election backfired on May and her Conservative Party, resulting in a hung parliament after the snap election.\n\nThe formation of the coalition resulting from the 2010 election led to the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, which instituted fixed five-year Parliaments and transferred the power to call early elections from the Prime Minister to Parliament itself. This was the idea of the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, then the leader of the Liberal Democrats, who said that this would stop the Prime Minister and leader of the Conservative Party, David Cameron, from calling a snap election to end the hung parliament, as many other Conservatives had requested.\n\nHung parliaments can also arise when slim government majorities are eroded by by-election defeats and defection of Members of Parliament to opposition parties, as well as resignations of MPs from the House of Commons. This happened in December 1996 to the Conservative government of John Major (1990–97) and in mid-1978 to the Labour government of James Callaghan (1976–79); this latter period covers the era known as the Winter of Discontent. The minority government of Jim Callaghan came when Labour ended their 15-month Lib-Lab pact with the Liberals having lost their majority in early 1977.\n\nAccording to researchers Andrew Blick and Stuart Wilks-Heeg, the phrase \"hung parliament\" did not enter into common usage in the UK until the mid-1970s. It was first used in the press by journalist Simon Hoggart in \"The Guardian\" in 1974.\n\nAcademic treatments of hung parliaments include David Butler's \"Governing Without a Majority: Dilemmas for Hung Parliaments in Britain\" (Sheridan House, 1986) and Vernon Bogdanor's 'Multi-Party Politics and the Constitution' (Cambridge University Press, 1983).\n\nThree recent Canadian Parliaments (the 38th, the 39th, and the 40th Parliaments) were hung parliaments, although that term is not used in Canada. Rather, the term \"minority government\" is used to describe the situation in which the party with the greatest number of seats in the House of Commons (but less than a majority) forms the Government. The aftermath of all three of these elections was that the largest party ruled as a \"minority government\". Although minority governments have tended to be short-lived, the two successive minorities under Prime Minister Stephen Harper managed to hold on to power from February 2006 until a no confidence vote in March 2011 resulted in the dissolution of Parliament and elections held on 2 May 2011. The subsequent election saw a majority parliament elected with Harper's Conservative Party obtaining a 24-seat majority. The make-up of the 40th Canadian Parliament hung parliament resulted in the 2008–09 Canadian parliamentary dispute. The Conservative Party had a plurality of seats, however, the Liberal Party and New Democratic Party together held enough seats to have a larger plurality and reached an accord to form a minority coalition government. The Bloc Québécois agreed to provide support on confidence votes. On 4 December 2008, Governor General Michaëlle Jean granted Prime Minister Stephen Harper a prorogation on the condition that parliament reconvene early in the new year; the date was set as 26 January 2009. The first session of the 40th parliament thus ended, delaying a vote of no-confidence.\n\nAustralian parliaments are modelled on the Westminster system, with a hung parliament typically defined as a lack of a lower house parliamentary majority from either the Australian Labor Party or Liberal/National Coalition.\n\nHung parliaments are rare at the federal level in Australia, as a virtual two-party system, in which the Australian Labor Party competes against an alliance of the conservative parties, has existed with only brief interruptions since the early 20th century. Prior to 1910, no party had a majority in the House of Representatives. As a result, there were frequent changes of government, several of which took place during parliamentary terms. Since 1910, when the two-party system was cemented, there have been two hung parliaments, the first in 1940, and the second in 2010. At the 1940 federal election, incumbent Prime Minister Robert Menzies secured the support of the two crossbenchers and continued to govern, but in 1941 the independents switched their support to Labor, bringing John Curtin to power.\n\nDeclining support for the major parties in recent times is leading to more non-majoritarian outcomes at elections. At the 2010 federal election, which resulted in an exact 72-72 seat tie between Labor and The Liberal-National Coalition, incumbent Prime Minister Julia Gillard secured the support of four out of six Independent and Green Party crossbenchers and continued to govern.\n\nIn the most recent election a hung parliament was only narrowly averted with the Liberal-National Coalition winning 76 seats, the bare minimum required to form a majority government. The Liberal-National Coalition government lost its majority government status after a by-election in 2018.\n\nHaving hung Parliaments in both Australia and the United Kingdom at the same time, and also briefly including Canada as well, is unprecedented in the history of the Commonwealth of Nations. \n\nHung parliaments are rather more common at a state level. The Tasmanian House of Assembly and the unicameral Parliament of the Australian Capital Territory are both elected by Hare-Clark proportional representation, thus, elections commonly return hung parliaments. In other states and territories, candidates contest single-member seats. With far fewer seats than federal parliament, hung parliaments are more likely to be elected. Recent examples include New South Wales in 1991, Queensland in 1998 and 2015, Victoria in 1999, South Australia in 1997 and 2002, Western Australia in 2008, the Australian Capital Territory in 2008, and Tasmania in 2010.\n\nHung parliaments had a relatively uncommon place in New Zealand politics prior to the introduction of proportional representation in 1993. Only on five occasions since the beginnings of modern party politics in 1890 has a hung parliament occurred, in 1911, 1922, 1928, 1931 & 1993 respectively. The rarity between 1936 and 1996 was due to the regression into a two party system, alternating between the long dominating New Zealand Labour Party and New Zealand National Party. Since the first MMP election in 1996 no single party has gained an outright majority in parliament. Subsequent governments have all been formed as either coalitions or under confidence and supply agreements. \n\nIn countries used to decisive election outcomes, a hung parliament is often viewed as an unfavourable outcome, leading to relatively weak and unstable government. A period of uncertainty after the election is common, as major party leaders negotiate with independents and minor parties to establish a working majority.\n\nAn aspiring head of government may seek to build a coalition government; in Westminster systems, this typically involves agreement on a joint legislative programme and a number of ministerial posts going to the minor coalition partners, in return for a stable majority. Alternatively, a minority government may be formed, establishing confidence and supply agreements in return for policy concessions agreed in advance, or relying on case by case support.\n\nIn the Western Australian state election of 2008 the Australian Labor Party won more seats than the Liberal Party at 28 to 24. The National Party along with three independents had the seats needed to give either party a majority. To help the Liberal Party form government, the Nationals supported the party on the condition that the Royalties for Regions policy was implemented.\n\nIn the 1999 Victorian state election, the Labor Party won 42 seats, while the incumbent Liberal National Coalition retained 43, with 3 seats falling to independents. The Labor Party formed a minority government with the 3 independents.\n\nThe 2010 Tasmanian state election resulted in a hung parliament. After a period of negotiation, the incumbent Labor government led by David Bartlett was recommissioned, but containing the Leader of the Tasmanian Greens, Nick McKim, as a minister, and the Greens' Cassy O'Connor as Cabinet Secretary.\n\nIn the 2010 federal election, neither Labor nor the Liberal coalition secured the majority of seats required to form a Government in their own right. In order to counter the potential instability of minority government involved groups may negotiate written agreements defining their terms of support. Such measures were undertaken by the Gillard Government in 2010.\n\nIn India if an election results in a 'hung assembly' in one of the state Legislative Assemblies and no party is capable of gaining confidence then fresh elections are announced to be held as soon as possible. Until this occurs President's Rule (or in the State of Jammu and Kashmir 'Governor's Rule') is applied. In India there have been many situations of hung assemblies in the state legislatures.\n\nThe first such occasion was in 1911 when the Liberal Party won fewer seats than the opposition Reform Party despite tallying the most votes. A vote of no confidence was placed by Reform and the Liberals survived by just one vote. This prompted Prime Minister Sir Joseph Ward to resign, his replacement Thomas Mackenzie was later defeated in July 1912 in a vote with several MPs and Labour crossing the floor to vote with the opposition, the last time in New Zealand history a government has changed on a confidence vote. This broke 23 years of Liberal governance and William Massey formed a new Reform Party government. Massey governed through to his death in 1925, though in 1922 the Reform Party suffered major losses and Massey was forced negotiate with several Independent MPs to retain power.\n\nIn 1928, Reform were ousted from governance and Joseph Ward once again won back power. However, the Reform and United (Liberal) parties were tied on seats with Labour holding the balance of power. Labour chose to back Ward rather than let Reform leader Gordon Coates remain in office. In the next election in 1931, there was again a three-way deadlock. On this occasion the Reform and United parties became a coalition government out of mutual fear of Labour's ever-increasing appeal as the Great Depression worsened.\n\n1993 was the last time a hung parliament occurred in New Zealand. Governor-General Dame Catherine Tizard asked Sir David Beattie to form a committee, along with three retired appeal court judges, to decide whom to appoint as Prime Minister. \n\nIn the February 1974 General Election, no party gained an overall parliamentary majority. Labour won the most seats (301, which was 17 seats short of an overall majority) with the Conservatives on 297 seats, although the Conservatives had a larger share of the popular vote. As the incumbent Prime Minister, Edward Heath remained in office, attempting to build a coalition with the Liberals. When these negotiations were unsuccessful Heath resigned and Labour led by Harold Wilson took over in a minority government.\n\nIn the 2010 UK General Election, another hung parliament occurred with the Conservatives as the largest party, and discussions followed to help create a stable government. This resulted in agreement on a coalition government, which was also a majority government, between the Conservative Party, which won the most votes and seats in the election, and the Liberal Democrats.\n\nIn the 2017 UK General Election, a hung parliament occurred for the second time in seven years with the Conservatives again being the largest party. The Conservatives led by Theresa May formed a minority government, supported by a confidence-and-supply agreement with the Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party.\n\nThere have been occasions when, although a parliament or assembly is technically hung, the party in power has a working majority. For example, in the United Kingdom, the tradition is that the Speaker and Deputy Speakers do not vote and Sinn Féin MPs never take their seats, so these members can be discounted from the opposition numbers.\n\nIn 2005, this was the case in the 60-seat National Assembly for Wales, where Labour lost their majority when Peter Law was expelled for standing against the official candidate in the 2005 Westminster election in the Blaenau Gwent constituency. When the Assembly was first elected on 1 May 2003, Labour won 30 seats, Plaid Cymru won 12, the Conservatives won 11, Liberal Democrats won 6, and the John Marek Independent Party won a seat.\n\nWhen Dafydd Elis-Thomas (Plaid Cymru) was reelected as the presiding officer, this reduced the number of opposition AMs who could vote to 29, as the presiding officer votes only in the event of a tie and, even then, not on party political lines but according to Speaker Denison's rule. Thus, Labour had a working majority of one seat until Law ran in Blaenau Gwent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2695242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2695242", "title": "Islamic Republican Party", "text": "Islamic Republican Party\n\nThe Islamic Republican Party (IRP; , also translated Islamic Republic Party) formed in mid-1979 to assist the Iranian Revolution and Ayatollah Khomeini establish theocracy in Iran. It was disbanded in May 1987 due to internal conflicts.\n\nThe party was formed just two weeks following the revolution upon the request of Ayatollah Khomeini. Five cofounders of the party were Mohammad Javad Bahonar, Mohammad Beheshti, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Ali Khamenei, and Abdolkarim Mousavi-Ardabili. Early members of the central committee of the party, in addition to founding members, were Hassan Ayat, Asadollah Badamchiyan, Abdullah Jasbi, Mir Hossein Mousavi, Habibollah Askar Oladi, Sayyed Mahmoud Kashani, Mahdi Araghi and Ali Derakhshan. The party had three general secretaries: Beheshti, Bahonar and Khamenei.\n\nThe party has been said to be distinguished by \"its strong clerical component, its loyalty to Khomeini, its strong animosity to the liberal political movements, and its tendency to support the revolutionary organizations,\" such as the \"komiteh.\" Policies it supported included the state takeover of large capital enterprises, the establishment of an Islamic cultural and university system, and programs to assist the poor.\n\nThese revolutionary ayatollahs originally used the party to form a monopoly over the post-revolutionary theocratic Iranian state. In its struggle with civilian opponents the party made use of its ties to the Revolutionary Guards and Hezbollah.\n\nIn the late 1980s, factionalism in the IRP intensified, the major issues being the Iran-Iraq War, whether to open up to foreign countries or remain isolated, and economic policies. Because all rival parties had been banned, the party \"did almost nothing and had little incentive to.\"\n\nAccording to Ahmad Mneisi,\n\"While unanimous on the idea of a theological state and united under the umbrella of one party, the Islamic Republican Party (IRP), [the religious right] differed on a number of issues, such as the extent to which religion is to take hold of political life (the Velayat-e Faqih debate).\n\nDaniel Brumberg argued that it was in response to the dispute between president Ali Khamenei and popular prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi, that the IRP was dissolved - the Islamic Republican Party served \"as a stronghold of radical activism,\" supporting Mousavi. However, another report states that it was dissolved in May 1987 due to internal conflicts. And the party was disbanded upon joint proposal of Rafsanjani and then party leader Khameini on 2 May 1987 when their proposal was endorsed by Ayatollah Khomeini.\n\nThe party held its first congress in May 1983 and the members elected the 30-members central council as follows:\n\nThe following organizations formed an alliance with the party:\n"}
{"id": "36080304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36080304", "title": "Italian Council of the European Movement", "text": "Italian Council of the European Movement\n\nItalian Council of the European Movement is an Italian advocacy group.\n\nFollowing May 1948 Congress of the Hague, was created in Italy, in December 1948, a National Council of the European Movement which was an organism in charge of the cooperation between the pro-European MPs and the European Federalist Movement. However its rebuilding was necessary in 1956 because of the opposition inside the pro-European movement between the so-called “functionalists”, supporters of a progressive market integration of the “little Europe” – in which they recognized the necessary base for every further development – and the majority of the Italian federalists, like Altiero Spinelli, very critical about the European governments after the failure of the European Community of Defence. In these conditions, it seemed unavoidable that the CIME assumes de facto an alternative character respecting to the militant federalism because of its composition (including political parties in charge and unions related to these). This situation evolved with time, notably thank to the accession of Giuseppe Petrilli at the Presidency in autumn 1964. In spite of being a former member of the EEC-three-first-year Commission, he matured a vision of the integration process which surpass the intergovernmental approach. The merger between the CIME and the Federalist Movement came to a conclusion in 1966 with the adhesion of the second to the first. The European Movement joined – first at the national level then to the European one – the fundamental positions of the federalist strategy and so recognized the importance of European Parliament election at the universal direct suffrage as an indispensable condition for any further progress on the political and institutional camp. When the parliamentary initiative of Altiero Spinelli (after the 1979 first EP elections) demonstrated the adequacy of this strategy, the CIME gave it its full support, through the strong pressure in favour of the treaty project made by the European Parliament to the Italian presidency of the Community, in the first semester of 1985. From there, the successive presidencies of Mauro Ferri, Mario Zagari e Giorgio Napolitano largely confirmed the continuity of the rapport within the CIME between the national political, social-economic forces and the federalist avant-garde. So the CIME counted among the protagonists in Italy of the constant commitment in favour of the Euro creation but also of European institutional reforms to get to the adoption of a real Constitution for the Union.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7269503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7269503", "title": "Labour Representation Committee (2004)", "text": "Labour Representation Committee (2004)\n\nThe Labour Representation Committee (LRC) is a British socialist pressure group within the Labour Party and wider labour movement. It is often seen as representing the most left-wing members of the Labour Party.\n\nThe LRC was formed at a founding conference on Saturday 3 July 2004, taking its name from the original Labour Representation Committee which was formed in February 1900.\n\nThe LRC allows Constituency Labour Parties (CLPs) and Branch Labour Parties (BLPs) to affiliate to it, along with local, regional and national unions and individual party members and supporters. It has around 150 affiliates and 1000 individual members. In parliament, the group is represented by the Socialist Campaign Group. The LRC also has a youth group, the Socialist Youth Network.\n\nThe Chairman is John McDonnell, who the LRC supported as a candidate for leader of the Labour Party. Its Organiser is Lizzie Woods. Joint-National Secretaries are Andrew Fisher and Peter Firmin. Its Vice-Chairs are Jenny Lennox and Susan Press. The Treasurer is Graham Bash, Editor of \"Labour Briefing\". They are the current officers of the organisation.\n\nAccording to LRC affiliate Socialist Appeal in November 2014: \"The Labour Representation Committee has lost a third of its members and is now down to 600 – in a party of 190,000. It is teetering on the verge of collapse.\" Despite this claim, LRC members have been involved in launching the activist Socialist Campaign for a Labour Victory in early 2015.\n\nThe LRC Youth, is a section of the LRC for those aged 27 and under. It was founded as the Socialist Youth Network in March 2007 and was relaunched in mid-2012 under its current name..\n\nThe National Committee is elected annually by delegates to the LRC's annual general meeting. Members of the National Committee are elected for 12 month terms to conduct the general business of the LRC between annual general meetings. The National Committee is responsible for electing, and holding to account, an Executive Committee, which is responsible for any general business between meetings of the National Committee. The National Committee is also responsible for the preparation of LRC publications, and for appointing delegates to represent the LRC when necessary.\n\nThe current National Committee is elected at the LRC's annual general meeting in November, and its membership is as follows:\nThe Representation Committee has a number of officially affiliated MPs, those being:\n\n\nThe LRC maintains support from a number of trade unions, the most prominent of these being:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "863165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863165", "title": "Leasehold estate", "text": "Leasehold estate\n\nA leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary right to hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord. Although a tenant does hold rights to real property, a leasehold estate is typically considered personal property.\n\nLeasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure where one party buys the right to occupy land or a building for a given length of time. As lease is a legal estate, leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market. A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an indeterminate length of time, and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let (rented) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly.\n\nUntil the end of the lease period (often measured in decades or centuries; a 99-year lease is quite common) the leaseholder has the right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner. Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease, which has elements of contract and property law intertwined.\n\nThe term estate for years may occasionally be used. This refers to a leasehold estate for \"any\" specific period of time (the word \"years\" is misleading.) An estate for years is not automatically renewed.\n\nColloquially, \"\"lease\" and \"leasing\" are often a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared with a \"rental\"\" that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short period.\n\nLaws governing landlord-tenant relationships can be found as far back as the Code of Hammurabi. However, the common law of the landlord-tenant relation evolved in England during the Middle Ages. That law still retains many archaic terms and principles pertinent to a feudal social order and an agrarian economy, where land was the primary economic asset and ownership of land was the primary source of rank and status. See also Lord of the Manor.\n\nModern leasehold estates can take one of four forms—the \"fixed-term tenancy\" or \"tenancy for years\", the \"periodic tenancy\", the \"tenancy at will\", and the \"tenancy at sufferance\". Forms no longer used include socage and burgage.\n\nWhen a landowner allows one or more persons, called \"tenants\", to use the land in some way for some fixed period of time, the land becomes a leasehold, and the resident- (or worker-) landowner relation is called a \"tenancy\". A tenant pays rent (a form of consideration) to the landowner. The leasehold can include buildings and other improvements to the land. The tenant can do one or more of: farm the leasehold, live on it, or practice a trade on it. Typically, leasehold estates are held by tenants for a specific period of time, such as 99 years.\n\nTenancy was essential to the feudal hierarchy; a lord would own land and the tenants became vassals. Leasehold estates can still be Crown land today. For example, in the Australian Capital Territory, all private land \"ownerships\" are actually leaseholds of Crown land.\n\nIn the US, there are food co-ops that supply tenants with a place to grow their own produce. Rural tenancy is also a common practice. Under a rural tenancy, a person buys a large amount of land and the rural community uses it agriculturally as a source of income.\n\nA \"fixed-term tenancy\" or tenancy for years lasts for some fixed period of time. Despite the name, such a tenancy can last for any period of timeeven a tenancy for one week would be called a tenancy for years. At common law the duration did not need to be certain, but could be conditioned upon the happening of some event (e.g. \"until the crops are ready for harvest\", \"until the war is over\"). In many jurisdictions that possibility has been partially or totally abolished.\n\nThe tenancy will come to an end automatically when the fixed term runs out, or, in the case of a tenancy that ends on the happening of an event, when the event occurs. It is also possible for a tenant, either expressly or impliedly, to give up the tenancy to the landlord. This process is known as a surrender of the lease.\n\nA periodic tenancy, also known as a tenancy from year to year, month to month, or week to week, is an estate that exists for some period of time determined by the term of the payment of rent. An oral lease for a tenancy of years that violates the statute of frauds (by committing to a lease of more than—depending on the jurisdiction—one year without being in writing) may actually create a periodic tenancy, the construed term being dependent on the laws of the jurisdiction where the leased premises are located. In many jurisdictions the \"default\" tenancy, where the parties have not explicitly specified a different arrangement, and where none is presumed under local or business custom, is the month-to-month tenancy.\n\nA tenancy at will or estate at will is a leasehold such that either the landlord or the tenant may terminate the tenancy at any time by giving reasonable notice. It usually occurs in the absence of a lease, or where the tenancy is not for consideration. Under the modern common law, tenancy at will can arise under the following circumstances:\n\nIn a residential lease for consideration, a tenant may not be removed except for cause, even in the absence of a written lease. If a landlord can terminate the tenancy at will, a tenant by operation of law is also granted a reciprocal right to terminate at will. However, a lease that expressly continues at the will of the tenant (\"for as long as the tenant desires to live on this land\") does not automatically provide the landlord with a reciprocal right to terminate, even for cause. Rather, such language may be construed to convey to the tenant a life estate or even a fee simple.\n\nA tenancy at will terminates by operation of law, if:\n\nA tenancy at sufferance is created when a tenant wrongfully holds over past the end of the duration period of the tenancy (for example, a tenant who stays past the expiration of his or her lease). In this case, the landlord can hold over the tenant to a new tenancy, and collect rent for the period the tenant has held over.\nA tenancy at sufferance (sometimes called a holdover tenancy) may exist when a tenant remains in possession of property even after the end of the lease, until the landlord acts to eject the tenant. The occupant may legally be a trespasser at this point, and the possession of this type may not be a true estate in land, even if authorities recognize the condition to hold the tenant liable for rent. The landlord may be able to evict such tenant at any time, without notice. Action to evict will terminate a tenancy at sufferance, because the tenant no longer enjoys possession. Some jurisdictions impose an irrevocable election whereby the landlord treats the holdover as either a trespasser, or as a tenant at sufferance. A trespasser is not in possession; but a tenant at sufferance continues to enjoy possession of the real property.\n\nThe landlord may also be able to impose a new lease on the holdover tenant. For a residential tenancy, such new tenancy lasts month to month. For a commercial tenancy of more than a year, the new tenancy is year to year; otherwise, the tenancy lasts for the same length of time as the duration under the original lease. In either case, the landlord can charge a higher rent, if the landlord, before the expiration of the original lease, has notified the tenant of the increase.\n\nSimply leaving property behind on the premises does not constitute possession and thus, a tenancy at sufferance cannot be established. E.g., \"Nathan Lane Assocs. v. Merchants Wholesale\", 698 N.W.2d 136 (Iowa 2005); \"Brown v. Music, Inc.\", 359 P.2d 295 (Alaska 1961).\n\nDepending on the laws in force in a particular jurisdiction, different circumstances may legally arise where a tenant remains in possession of property after the expiration of a lease.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the tenant has a legal right to remain in occupation of the premises after the end of a lease unless the landlord complies with a formal process to dispossess the tenant of the property. For example, in England and Wales, a business tenant has a right to continue occupying their demise after the end of their lease under the provisions of sections 24–28 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 (unless these provisions were formally excluded by agreement before the lease was completed). At the end of their lease they need do nothing but continue payment of rent at the previous level and uphold all other relevant covenants such as to keep the building in good repair. They cannot be evicted unless the landlord serves a formal notice to end the tenancy and successfully opposes the grant of the new lease to which the tenant has an automatic right. Even this can only be done under prescribed circumstances, for example the landlord's desire to occupy the premises himself or to demolish and redevelop the building.\n\nThe first is to put the tenant in physical possession of the land at the outset of the lease (the English and majority rule, as opposed to the American rule which only requires the tenant be given \"legal\" possession, or the \"right\" to possess); the second is to provide the premises in a \"habitable condition\"—there is an implied warranty of habitability. If landlord violates either, the tenant can terminate the lease and move out, or stay on the premises, while continuing to pay rent, and sue the landlord for damages (or withhold rent and use breach of implied warranty of habitability as a defense when the landlord attempts to collect rent).\n\nThe lease also includes an implied covenant of quiet enjoymentlandlord will not interfere with tenant's quiet enjoyment. This can be breached in three ways.\n\nUnder the common law, the landlord had no duties to the tenant to protect the tenant or the tenant's licensees and invitees, except in the following situations:\n\nUnder the common law, the tenant has two duties to the landlord:\nA tenant is liable to third party invitees for negligent failure to correct a dangerous condition on the premiseeven if the landlord was contractually liable.\n\nIf land under lease to a tenant is condemned under the government's power of eminent domain, the tenant may be able to earn either a reduction in rent or a portion of the condemnation award (the price paid by the government) to the owner, depending on the amount of land taken, and the value of the leasehold property.\n\nWith a \"partial taking\" of the land, the tenant may claim apportioned rent for property taken. For example, suppose a tenant leases land for 6 months for 1,000 per month, and that two months into the lease, and the government condemns 25% of the land. The tenant will then be entitled to take a portion of the condemnation award equal to 25% of the rent due for the remaining four months of the lease—1,000, derived from 250 per month for four months.\n\nA \"full taking\", however, extinguishes the lease, and excuses all rent from that point. The tenant will not be entitled to any portion of the condemnation award, unless the value of the lease was greater than the rent paid, in which case the tenant can recover the difference. Suppose in the above example that the market value of the land being leased was actually 1,200 a month, but the 1,000 per month rate represented a break given to the tenant by the landlord. Because the tenant is losing the ability to continue renting the land at this bargain rate (and probably must move to more expensive land), the tenant will be entitled to the difference between the lease rate and the market value – 200 per month for a total of 800.\n\nMany adverse effects come from this system. Tenants have to pay the landowner even though they are doing all of the agricultural work. In a sense, it is a cycle where the tenant is never really able to become a landowner because they constantly have to pay the landowner, as well as other expenses. If a crop does not flourish, the tenant will still have to pay for the use of the land. The landowner, since he is ultimately owner of the land, also can have a say in what the tenant uses the land for or what he can or cannot grow. On the contrary, rural tenancy has advantages. If a person owns too much land for just their family to use, tenants can rent it and make use of the land. Also, if a landowner rents out the land, it can be a source of economic income for the tenant which may not have previously existed. In poorer communities, rural tenancy can give the tenants a chance to grow crops to sell in markets and to feed their families.\n\nIn England in recent years, some new homes and apartments have been sold by large housebuilders with a leasehold where the ground rent payable doubles every 10 to 25 years, with consequently a very high price to buy out the lease. This has caused some recently built homes to be extremely difficult to sell. In 2017 the British government launched a consultation on legal reforms to end such exploitative schemes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42174441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42174441", "title": "List of United Progressive Alliance candidates in the 2014 Indian general election", "text": "List of United Progressive Alliance candidates in the 2014 Indian general election\n\nFor the Indian general election, 2014, the UPA's is an alliance led by Indian National Congress with following parties:\n\nFor the Indian general election, 2014, the UPA's candidates for the \"Lok Sabha\" constituencies are as follows:\n\nSource : All India Congress Committee Nationalist Congress Party Rashtriya Janata Dal Jammu & Kashmir National Conference Jharkhand Mukti Morcha Rashtriya Lok Dal Mahan Dal Communist Party of India\n\nSource : All India Congress Committee\n\nThe United Progressive Alliance lost power. The Indian National Congress won 44, Nationalist Congress Party won 6, Rashtriya Janata Dal won 4, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha won 2, Indian Union Muslim League won 2 seats respectively and Revolutionary Socialist Party (India) won 1 seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "427463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427463", "title": "List of national governments", "text": "List of national governments\n\nThis is a list of the offices of heads of state, heads of government, cabinet, and legislature, of sovereign states. Date of Origin refers to most recent fundamental change in form of government, for example independence, change from absolute monarchy to constitutional monarchy, revolution, new constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "52022835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52022835", "title": "List of things named after Ziaur Rahman", "text": "List of things named after Ziaur Rahman\n\nThis is a list of things named after Ziaur Rahman, the 7th President of Bangladesh (1977–1981). This list includes proposed name changes.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11436933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11436933", "title": "List of urban debate leagues", "text": "List of urban debate leagues\n\nThis is a list of current urban debate leagues in the United States.\n\nNational organizations include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39427617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39427617", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture (Czech Republic)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture (Czech Republic)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic () is a government ministry.\n"}
{"id": "17161669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17161669", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Pakistan)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Pakistan)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence (, \"Wazarat-e-Difa\", abbreviated as MoD), is a executive ministry of the Government of Pakistan, tasked in defending Pakistan's national interests and values at home and abroad. It plays a major supporting role to the Pakistan Armed Forces and coordinates with a range of domestic, foreign and inter-governmental bodies. The Ministry of Defence is one of the largest federal ministries of the Government of Pakistan in terms of budget as well as staff. \n\nThe existence and functions of the ministry are statutorily defined in \"Part XII, Chapter II\" of the Constitution of Pakistan. The responsibilities for procurement, production and disposal of equipment were transferred in 2004 to the Ministry of Defence Production.\n\nThe Minister of Defence is Cabinet member, who is responsible for controlling the armed forces. The current Minister of Defence is Pervez Khan Khattak. The Secretary of Defence is the senior-most administrative figure within the ministry, who in recent decades has typically been a retired Pakistan military officer. The assistant secretaries serving under him are serving flag-officers belonging to the respective services. The following is a simplified representation of the MoD's senior leadership:\n\nThe Ministry of Defence is a successor of the \"Military Department\" created by the British East India Company in Calcutta in 1776. Its main function was to coordinate and record orders, relating to the Army, issued by various Departments of the Government of the East India Company. The Military Department initially functioned as a branch of the Public Department and maintained a list of Army personnel. Following Pakistan's independence in 1947, the Ministry of Defence was established at Karachi in August of that year, with Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan also holding the Minister of Defence, while Iskander Mirza served as Defence Secretary. British flag officers remained commanders-in-chief of the army, navy and air force in Pakistan until 1956. In December 1959, the federal capital shifted temporarily to Rawalpindi, while plans for Islamabad were drawn up by then-General Ayub Khan's military government. The proximity of the Army Headquarters in Rawalpindi played a major role in the decision to relocate the capital. In March 1972, President Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto in response to criticism over the difficulties in inter-service coordination in previous wars decreed that all service HQs were to move to Islamabad. The Navy was the first to comply, with Naval Headquarters moving from Karachi to Sector E9 Islamabad 1974, while Air Headquarters moved from Peshawar to Sector E10 Islamabad in 1983. Following two failed assassination attempts in Rawalpindi, President Pervez Musharraf restarted plans in 2004 for the entire defence establishment to shift to Sector E10 in Islamabad where the Ministry of Defence along with the four service headquarters would be based. This was subsequently cancelled in 2008 grounds of cost following Musharraf's forced resignation. The Ministry of Defence is presently located at \"Calcutta House\" in Rawalpindi. Other related top-level head offices based in Rawalpindi include the Ministry of Defence Production (MoDP), Joint Staff Headquarters and the Army General Headquarters. The Air Headquarters and the Naval Headquarters are located in Islamabad.\n\nThe following organizations and services are under the Ministry of Defence:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44882868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44882868", "title": "Movement for a Europe of Nations and Freedom", "text": "Movement for a Europe of Nations and Freedom\n\nThe Movement for a Europe of Nations and Freedom (), abbreviated to MENL or MENF, is an alliance of European political parties founded in 2014. Its political group in the European Parliament is Europe of Nations and Freedom.\n\nIn the aftermath of the European Parliament election, 2014, parties affiliated with the European Alliance for Freedom unsuccessfully attempted to form a political group in the European Parliament.\n\nLater in 2014, they decided to create a new European-level structure, which became the Movement for a Europe of Nations and Freedom. The Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) chose not to participate in this pan-European party, as it declined to be funded by the European Union. The Polish Congress of the New Right (KNP), initially claimed that it would be part of the new alliance, but was accused in a press release by the French National Rally of spreading false claims in the Polish and Austrian media. Ultimately the KNP took part in the creation of the party's new parliamentary group as its former controversial leader Janusz Korwin-Mikke was evicted from the party to be replaced by Michal Marusik.\n\nIt was recognised by the European Parliament (EP) in 2015. Its maximum grant by the EP for this year is €1,170,746 plus €621,677 for its affiliated political foundation, the \"Fondation pour une Europe des Nations et des Libertés\".\n\nOn 16 June 2015, the Europe of Nations and Freedom parliamentary group was created in the European Parliament with members of the MENL (RN, FPÖ, LN, VB) as well as the PVV, Poland's KNP and a former member of UKIP, Janice Atkinson.\n\nThe 1st congress of the movement was held on 28 June 2015 in Perpignan, France gathering some MEPs from the National Rally as well as a few of its local & national representatives members; the objective of this meeting was mainly about making the 1st year of action of the National Rally's MEPs in review.\n\nOn 15 September 2015, the Flemish Vlaams Belang (VB) and the movement organised a colloquium dealing with sovereignty which took place in the Flemish Parliament with VB's leader Tom Van Grieken, MEP Gerolf Annemans, VB's member Barbara Pas and National Rally's leader Marine Le Pen. All of the Flemish parties approved Marine Le Pen's visit at the Flemish Parliament although the speaker of the Flemish Parliament Jan Peumans (N-VA) decided not to be part of this colloquium.\n\nOn 24 October 2015, MENL's leader and vice-president of the National Rally Louis Aliot met the current president of Brothers of Italy, Giorgia Meloni in Trieste for a conference on immigration.\n\nMarine Le Pen praised SVP's victory during the 2015 Swiss election although the Swiss party does not have official links with the movement. The movement also launched an anti-immigration campaign in 2015 just like the SVP's campaign during Swiss referendum on immigration in 2014.\n\nOn 21 November 2015, MENL's think thank \"Foundation for a Europe of Nations and Freedom\" organised a colloquium (\"L'euro, un échec inéluctable?\") dealing with Euro and how it might be an inescapable failure. Jacques Sapir took part in this colloqium among others. The FENF, chaired by Gerolf Annemans, organised another colloquim on 2 April 2016 in Paris dealing with union representation and the development of professional organisations in France.\n\nThe third colloquium of the movement took place on 4 March 2016 in the Flemish Parliament with VB's leader Tom Van Grieken and PVV's leader Geert Wilders. This colloquim entitled \"Freedom\" (\"Vrijheid\") dealt with liberties in Europe and how they would be threatened by immigration from \"countries with cultures which are fundamentally different [from the European one]\".\n\nThe movement's member parties and allies met in July 2016 in Vienna, an event hosted by Austria's FPÖ. The French National Rally, Matteo Salvini's Northern League, the AfD, Belgium's Vlaams Belang, the Dutch Party for Freedom were present among other independent politicians and smaller European parties.\n\nAccording to Politico, the movement owed in 2016 the European Parliament €535,818. The reasons given by Politico were the forbidden use of European grants by the MENL party to finance national political parties and referendum campaigns. The party strongly denied these allegations by saying that they just had to give the unused EU funds back to the European Parliament.\n\nThe following national delegations are part of MENL:\nThe Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV), the Polish Congress of the New Right (KNP) and the German Alternative for Germany (AfD), despite not being members of MENL, participate in its political group in the European Parliament, ENL.\n\nMENL leaders also have public political relations of some kind with Brothers of Italy (FdI, Italy) and Freedom and Direct Democracy (SPD, Czech Republic). The latter is now a full member of the pan-European party.\n\nIn February 2016, FPÖ's leader Heinz-Christian Strache was invited by the anti-Euro & anti-immigration party AfD and its leader Frauke Petry to their congress in Düsseldorf and the AfD also announced a cooperation pact with the FPÖ. In April 2016, AfD's vice-president Alexander Gauland also proposed an alliance with Marine Le Pen's National Rally. Therefore, AfD's MEP Marcus Pretzell joined the Europe of Nations and Freedom group on 30 April 2016.\n\nIn February 2017, French MEP Edouard Ferrand met with VOX's leaders during a meeting of the Spanish right-wing party. Back in 2016, VOX's president Santiago Abascal had already met with one of the National Rally's leaders, Louis Aliot, also one of MENL's MEP in the European Parliament.\n\nAmong members of MENL's predecessor European Alliance for Freedom (EAF), the following parties did not join MENL:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5448871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5448871", "title": "Pax Europaea", "text": "Pax Europaea\n\nPax Europaea ( – after the historical \"Pax Romana\"), is the period of relative peace experienced by Europe in the period following World War II—often associated above all with the creation of the European Union (EU) and its predecessors. After the Cold War this peace was even more evident because of the fall in political tensions, with the major exception of the Yugoslav Wars and various tensions with and within Russia. In 2012, the EU was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nTransatlantic cooperation and European integration was designed to maintain the fragile peace that was created in Europe. With the continent consistently falling into war over the past centuries the creation of the European Communities in the 1950s set to integrate its members to such an extent that war between them would be impossible. These Communities, and other organisations including NATO expanded to cover most of Western Europe, Northern Europe and Southern Europe. Although Central and Eastern Europe remained under Soviet influence, they too experienced little conflict, with the major exception of internal repression, until the 1990s when a series of wars in Yugoslavia broke out as the country disintegrated. The EU structures were criticised for its inability to prevent the conflict, though the zone is now within its sphere of enlargement.\n\nThe EU now comprises 28 countries with majority of European non-member states seeking membership (twelve countries joined the EU in 2000s). In addition to that, most countries which remain outside are tied to the EU by economic agreements and treaties such as the European Economic Area. Within the zone of integration, there has been no conflict since 1945, making it the longest period of peace on the western European mainland since Pax Romana.\n\nThe European Union was awarded the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of its efforts to maintain and actively foster peace within its borders as well as internationally through diplomatic means.\n\nEven though a number of armed conflicts occurred on the European peninsula after World War II, none of them have been between members of the European Union. Most of these conflicts have taken place in the former Yugoslavia and Soviet Union.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3242599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3242599", "title": "Philippe Henriot", "text": "Philippe Henriot\n\nPhilippe Henriot (7 January 1889, Reims – 28 June 1944, Paris) was a French poet, journalist, politician, and Minister in the French government at Vichy, where he directed propaganda broadcasts. He also joined the Milice part-time.\n\nPhilippe Henriot, a devout Roman Catholic, and poet who had written several books of poetry during the early 1920s, became politically active during the Republican Federation, and was elected to the Third Republic's Chamber of Deputies for the Gironde \"département\" in 1932 and 1936. He became \"a committed member of the Catholic nationalist right\". By the mid-1930s his anti-republican prejudices made him a natural opponent of the Popular Front and his speeches showed him to be an anti-communist, anti-Semite, Anti-Freemasonry, and against the parliamentary system. In 1936 General de Castelnau, leader of the FNC, described Henriot as \"an ardent defender of religion, the family and society.\" At the beginning of World War II, he was strongly anti-German. However, in 1941 Henriot began to support Nazi Germany after it invaded the Soviet Union in Operation Barbarossa, as he hoped for the defeat of Communism, believing that Bolshevism was the enemy of Christianity.\n\nIn 1940, after the surrender of France to Germany, Henriot became active as a journalist working for the French government headed by Philippe Pétain which had removed to Vichy. In December 1943 he was appointed Secretary of State for Information. During his career he created programs and broadcast through Radio Paris, becoming the government's spokesman. He developed a war of propaganda against the Free French Forces and the BBC; whose spokesmen were Pierre Dac and Maurice Schumann. Seeking to shape the perceptions of the French government and German occupation, and to destroy popular support for the Résistance, Henriot was given the nickname of the \"French Goebbels\". He broadcast twice daily on Radio Vichy, \"repeatedly and eloquently attacking all those he considered lukewarm in their attitude to collaboration and calling on all good Catholics to support the German cause in the fight against communism.\" He continued the propaganda programmes after the Germans were forced, due to the new Allied presence in North Africa, to extend their military occupation in 1942 over Southern France, formerly the Free Zone controlled by the French government at Vichy. He warned the French people about any association with the Allies or \"terrorists\" (resistance groups) and countered the arguments of the Free French Forces broadcasting from the BBC. He wrote and delivered 270 broadcasts on Radio Vichy in a \"mesmerising rhetoric and delivery\" ... as a \"huge media star\", according to one source.\n\n\"There is no doubt Henriot's broadcasts were influential, attracting a large and diverse audience.\" It was said that \"Henriot is listened to by everyone, enemies or supporters. Families shift their meal times so as not to miss him. There is no-one left in the street at the time he speaks.\" On 6 January 1944, Henriot was appointed as the French Minister of Information and Propaganda.\n\nIn 1943, Henriot joined the paramilitary Milice \"with a deep-seated conviction that Christian civilisation was engaged in a life and death struggle against Bolshevism.\"\n\nHenriot was a natural target for the Résistance and on 28 June 1944, in the Ministry building where he lived, he was assassinated by a group of COMAC members of the Maquis, an organisation designated by the French government at Vichy as \"terrorists\". Disguised as members of the Milice, they had persuaded him to open his door. In retaliation, the Milice assassinated Georges Mandel, a strong opponent of collaboration. Henriot was afforded a state funeral in Paris, presided over by Cardinal Suhard in Notre Dame Cathedral. His coffin was placed, surrounded by French flags and flowers, in front of the Hôtel de Ville, where thousands filed past to mourn him – less than two months before the Liberation of Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "10800676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10800676", "title": "Project Clear Vision", "text": "Project Clear Vision\n\nProject Clear Vision was a covert examination of Soviet-made biological bomblets conducted by the Battelle Memorial Institute under contract with the CIA. The legality of this project under the Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) of 1972 is disputed.\n\nProject Clear Vision was conducted between 1997 and 2000, during the Clinton Administration. The project's stated goal was to assess the efficacy of bio-agent dissemination from bomblets. The program received criticism due to suspicions that its findings could possibly be used in a covert US bioweapons program.\n\nThe secret project was disclosed in a September 2001 article in \"The New York Times\". Reporters Judith Miller, Stephen Engelberg and William J. Broad collaborated to write the article. Shortly after the article appeared, the authors published a book that further elaborated the story. The 2001 book, \"\", and the article are the only publicly available sources concerning Project Clear Vision and its sister projects, Bacchus and Jefferson.\n\nAs signatory to the BWC, the United States is committed to refrain from development of bioweapons. Moreover,\nthe US did not disclose the secret project in its annual confidence-building measure (CBM) declarations. The US maintains that the program was fully consistent with the BWC because the project was defensive in nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "53831588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53831588", "title": "Rastriya Janata Party Nepal", "text": "Rastriya Janata Party Nepal\n\nThe Rastriya Janata Party Nepal (; translation: National People's Party Nepal; RJPN) is a Nepali Political Party formed after the merger of Tarai Madhes Loktantrik Party, led by the Mahantha Thakur, Sadbhavana Party, led by the Rajendra Mahato, Nepal Sadbhawana Party, led by the Anil Kumar Jha, Tarai Madhes Sadbhawana Party, led by the Mahendra Yadav, Madhesi Jana Adhikar Forum (Republican), led by Rajkishor Yadav and Rastriya Madhesh Samajwadi Party, led by Sarat Singh Bhandari.\n\nOn 14 April 2017, six of the seven constituents of the Unified Democratic Madhesi Front agreed in principle to merge in a bid to form a strong force representing the Terai region. The party was formed on 21 April, as the Rastriya Janata Party and Mahanta Thakur was announced as its chairperson. The party on 26 April, changed its name to Rastriya Janata Party Nepal after it clashed with another party bearing the name Rastriya Janata Party, which later merged with Nepal Loktantrik Forum, registered in the Election Commission.\n\nThe party registered at the Election Commission on 7 July 2017. \n\nThe party had initially decided to not participate in the third phase of the local elections but changed their decision later. The party had the second highest candidates elected in Province No. 2 with 1,112 candidates being elected. The party won 25 mayoral posts, including a win in Janakpur.\n\nAhead of the legislative and provincial elections, RJPN formed an alliance with Upendra Yadav led Federal Socialist Forum, Nepal. The party won 17 seats in the House of Representatives and finished with the fourth highest vote count in proportional representation. The party won in key areas of their home province in Province No. 2, including senior leader Rajendra Mahato defeating defence minister Bimalendra Nidhi. The party was also one of five parties to be declared \"national parties\".\n\nThe party won 25 seats in the provincial assembly for Province No. 2, 1 seat in Province No. 5 and 2 seats in Province No. 7. Following the election, RJPN and Federal Socialist Forum announced that they would form a coalition government in Province No. 2, with FSFN getting the post of Chief Minister and RJPN getting the post of Speaker.\n\nThe party won 2 seats in the National Assembly elections, both candidates were elected unopposed from Province No. 2. On 20 April 2018, disgruntled leaders led by Ashok Kumar Yadav broke away from the party and formed Rastriya Janata Party (Democratic).\n\n"}
{"id": "51559936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51559936", "title": "Realizing Increased Photosynthetic Efficiency", "text": "Realizing Increased Photosynthetic Efficiency\n\nRealizing Increased Photosynthetic Efficiency (RIPE) is a translational research project that is genetically engineering plants to photosynthesize more efficiently to increase crop yields. RIPE aims to increase agricultural production worldwide, particularly to help reduce hunger and poverty in Sub-Saharan Africa and Southeast Asia by sustainably improving the yield of key food crops including soybeans, rice, cassava and cowpeas. The RIPE project began in 2012, funded by a five-year, $25-million dollar grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In 2017, the project received a $45 million-dollar reinvestment from the Gates Foundation, Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research, and the UK Government's Department for International Development. In 2018, the Gates Foundation contributed an additional $13 million to accelerate the project's progress. \n\nDuring the 20th century, the Green Revolution dramatically increased yields through advances in plant breeding and land management. This period of agricultural innovation is credited for saving millions of lives. However, these approaches are reaching their biological limits, leading to stagnation in yield improvement. In 2009, the Food and Agriculture Organization projected that global food production must increase by 70% by 2050 to feed an estimated world population of 9 billion people. Meeting the demands of 2050 is further challenged by shrinking arable land, decreasing natural resources, and climate change.\n\nThe RIPE project's proof-of-concept study established photosynthesis can be improved to increase yields, published in Science. The Guardian named this discovery one of the 12 key science moments of 2016. Computer model simulations identify strategies to improve the basic underlying mechanisms of photosynthesis and increase yield. First, researchers transform, or genetically engineer, model plants that are tested in controlled environments, e.g. growth chambers and greenhouses. Next, successful transformations are tested in randomized, replicated field trials. Finally, transformations with statistically significant yield increases are translated to the project’s target food crops. Likely several approaches could be combined to additively increase yield. \"Global access” ensures smallholder farmers will be able to use and afford the project's intellectual property.\n\nRIPE is led by the University of Illinois at the Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology. The project's partner institutions include the Australian National University, the Lancaster Environment Centre at Lancaster University, the University of Essex, the Chinese Academy of Sciences - Max Planck Institute, Louisiana State University, the University of California at Berkeley, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and the United States Department of Agriculture/Agricultural Research Service.\n\nThe Executive Committee oversees the various research strategies; its members are listed in the table below. \n"}
{"id": "365124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365124", "title": "Red-baiting", "text": "Red-baiting\n\nRed-baiting, also reductio ad Stalinum (), is an informal logical fallacy that intends to discredit the validity of an opponent's logical argument by accusing, denouncing, attacking, or persecuting an individual or group as communist, socialist, Marxist, Stalinist or anarchist, or sympathetic towards these ideologies. In the United States, the term \"red-baiting\" dates from at least 1927. In 1928, black-listing by the Daughters of the American Revolution was characterized as a \"red-baiting relic\". It is a term commonly used in the United States, and in United States history, red-baiting is most often associated with McCarthyism, which originated in the two historic Red Scare periods of the 1920s (First Red Scare) and 1950s (Second Red Scare). In the 21st century, red-baiting does not have quite the same effect it previously did due to the fall of Soviet-style Communism, but some pundits have argued that notable events in current American politics indicate a resurgence of red-baiting consistent with the 1950s.\n\nThe term \"red\" in \"red-baiting\" refers to the red flag as a symbol of socialism (including democratic socialism), communism, Marxism and leftist politics in general (including anarchism, although its flag is black). The term \"baiting\" refers to persecution, torment or harassment as in dog-baiting.\n\nRed-baiting was employed in opposition to anarchists in the United States as early as the late 1870s when businessmen, religious leaders, politicians and editorial writers tried to rally poor and middle class workers to oppose dissident railroad workers and again during the Haymarket affair in the mid-1880s. Red-baiting was well established in the U.S. during the decade before World War I. In the post-war period of 1919-1921 the U.S. government employed it as a central tactic in dealing with labor radicals, anarchists, communists, socialists and foreign agents. These actions in reaction to the First Red Scare and the concurrent Red terror, served as part of the organizing principle shaping counter-revolutionary policies and serving to institutionalize anti-communism as a force in American politics.\n\nThe period between the first and second Red Scares was relatively calm owing to the success of government anti-communism, the suppressive effects of New Deal policies on radical organized labor, and the patriotism associated with total mobilization during World War II. Red-baiting re emerged in the late 1940s and early 1950s during the period known as the Second Red Scare due to mounting Cold War tensions and the spread of communism abroad. U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy's controversial red-baiting of suspected communists and communist sympathizers in the U.S. Department of State, and the creation of an entertainment industry blacklist, led to the term \"McCarthyism\" being coined to signify any type of reckless political persecution or witch-hunt.\n\nThe history of anti-communist red-baiting in general, and McCarthyism in particular, continues to be hotly debated, and political divisions this controversy created continue to make themselves felt. Conservative critics contend that revelations such as the Venona project decryptions and the FBI Silvermaster File at least mute if not outright refute the charge that red-baiting in general was unjustified. Historian Nicholas von Hoffman wrote in \"The Washington Post\" that evidence revealed in the Venona project forced him to admit that McCarthy was \"closer to the truth than those who ridiculed him\".\n\nLiberal critics contend that, even if someone could prove that the U.S. government was infiltrated by Soviet spies, McCarthy was censured by the U.S. Senate because he was in fact reckless and politically opportunistic, and his red-baiting ruined the lives of countless innocent people. Historian Ellen Schrecker wrote that, \"\"In this country\", McCarthyism did more damage to the constitution than the American Communist Party ever did.\"\n\nIn the 21st century, red-baiting does not have quite the same effect it previously did due to the fall of Soviet-style Communism, but some pundits have argued that notable events in current American politics indicates a resurgence of red-baiting consistent with the 1950s. The United States government's measures in 2008 to address the subprime mortgage crisis, such as TARP, were not only criticized as \"corporate welfare\" but red-baited as a \"gateway to socialism\". Political activist and author Tim Wise, however, argues that the emergence of red-baiting may be motivated by racism towards U.S. President Barack Obama and fear that the progressive policies of his administration will erode white privilege in the United States.\n\nSome commentators argue that red-baiting was used by John McCain, Republican presidential nominee in the 2008 United States election, when he argued that Democratic nominee Barack Obama's improvised comments on wealth redistribution to \"Joe the Plumber\" was a promotion of \"socialism\". Journalist David Remnick, who wrote the biography \"The Bridge: The Life and Rise of Barack Obama\", countered that it should now be obvious that after one year in office Obama is a centre-left president and the majority of his policies are in line with the center-left Democratic tradition; while, in July 2011, \"The Fiscal Times\" columnist Bruce Barlett argues that an honest examination of the Obama presidency must conclude that he has in fact been a moderately conservative Democrat and that it may take 20 years before Obama's basic conservatism is widely accepted, and author and columnist Chris Hedges argues that the Obama administration's policies are mostly right-wing.\n\nIn April 2009, U.S. Representative Spencer Bachus claimed that 17 of his Congressional colleagues were socialists, but would only name one, Bernie Sanders, who has been openly describing himself as a democratic socialist for years. Sanders countered that American conservatives blur the differences between socialism and communism, between democracy and totalitarianism. He argued that the United States would benefit from a serious debate about comparing the quality of life for the middle class in the U.S. and in Nordic countries with a long social-democratic tradition like Sweden, Norway, and Finland.\n\nIn May 2009, a number of conservative members of the Republican National Committee were pressing the committee and by extension, RNC chairman Michael Steele, to officially adopt the position that the Democratic Party is socialist. Over a dozen members of the conservative wing of the RNC submitted a new resolution, to be eventually voted on by the entire RNC, that would call on the Democratic party to rename itself the \"Democrat Socialist Party\". If the RNC adopted this resolution, the RNC's official view would become that Democrats are socialists.\n\nFrom the resolution:\n\nRESOLVED, that we the members of the Republican National Committee call on the Democratic Party to be truthful and honest with the American people by acknowledging that they have evolved from a party of tax and spend to a party of tax and nationalize and, therefore, should agree to rename themselves the Democrat Socialist Party.\n\nOn Wednesday 20 May 2009, supporters of the resolution instead agreed to accept language urging Democrats to \"stop pushing our country towards socialism and government control\", thus ending a fight within the ranks of the Republican Party that reflected the divide between those who want a more centrist message and those seeking a more aggressive, conservative voice, such as the one expressed by the Tea Party movement. Frank Llewellyn, national director of Democratic Socialists of America, argued that Republicans never really define what they mean by \"socialism\" and are simply engaging in the politics of fear.\n\nIn July 2009, talk show host Glenn Beck began to devote what would become many episodes on his TV and radio shows, focusing on Van Jones, a Special Advisor in President Obama's White House Council on Environmental Quality. Beck was especially critical of Jones' previous involvement in radical protest movements, and referred to him as a \"communist-anarchist radical\". In September 2009, Jones resigned his position in the Obama administration, after a number of his past statements became fodder for conservative critics and Republican officials. \"Time\" magazine credited Beck with leading conservatives' attack on Jones, which Jones characterized as a \"vicious smear campaign\" and an effort to use \"lies and distortions to distract and divide\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39206304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39206304", "title": "Saradha Group financial scandal", "text": "Saradha Group financial scandal\n\nThe Saradha Group financial scandal was a major financial scam and alleged political scandal caused by the collapse of a Ponzi scheme run by Saradha Group, a consortium of over 200 private companies that was believed to be running collective investment schemes popularly but incorrectly referred to as chit funds in Eastern India.\n\nThe group collected around 200 to 300 billion () from over 1.7 million depositors before it collapsed in April 2013. In the aftermath of the scandal, the State Government of West Bengal where the Saradha Group and most of its investors were based instituted an inquiry commission to investigate the collapse. The State government also set up a fund of to ensure that low-income investors were not bankrupted.\n\nThe central government through the Income Tax Department and Enforcement Directorate launched a multi-agency probe to investigate the Saradha scam and similar Ponzi schemes.\nIn May 2014, the Supreme Court of India, inter-state ramifications, possible international money laundering, serious regulatory failures and alleged political nexus, transferred all investigations into the Saradha scam and other Ponzi schemes to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), India's federal investigative agency. Many prominent personalities were arrested for their involvement in the scam including two Members of Parliament (MP) - Kunal Ghosh and Srinjoy Bose, former West Bengal Director General of Police Rajat Majumdar, a top football club official Debabrata Sarkar, Sports and Transport minister in the – Madan Mitra.\n\nThe scam has often been compared to the Sanchayita investment scam, a multi crore rupees scam that occurred in West Bengal in the 1970s, complaints related to which led to the formation of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act of 1978.\n\nIndia has a large, low-income, rural population with limited access to formal banking facilities. This leads to the absence of two major helplines for poorer people - that of placing their money safely in deposits and secondly of being able to borrow money for their needs which may be as simple as buying seeds for the next crop or their children's marriage. The second aim is achieved instead by a web of parallel, informal banking in the form of money lenders (pawn brokers) who have existed in India for a few centuries. At its centre are moneylenders, mostly unregulated, often also wealthy landlords or now politicians, used to charge exorbitant rates of interest. To curb this practice, several Moneylenders Acts were enacted by the State governments of India by the 1950s. However failure to replace the role of moneylenders gave rise to unscrupulous financial operators that operated Ponzi schemes. Some commentators place the blame for these kinds of Ponzi schemes on greed rather than exclusion from formal banking systems.\n\nHowever, this does not address the former issue of being able to save their money easily, keep it in safekeeping and invest it so that it grows. While post offices have tried to address this through postal savings banks, people are often lured by Ponzi schemes that promise much higher returns.\n\nThe relatively prosperous rural economy of West Bengal had previously relied on small savings schemes run by the Indian Postal Service. However, low rates of interest in the 1980s and 1990s encouraged the rise of several Ponzi schemes in speculative ventures such as Sanchayita Investments, Overland Investment Company, Verona Credit and Commercial Investment Company. Together, these scams eliminated close to in investor wealth.\nDespite a history of Ponzi schemes, the continuing decline in interest rates, rapid financialisation of household savings, lack of financial literacy and investor awareness, political patronage, absence of adequate legal deterrence, and regulatory arbitrage encouraged the growth of similar companies. These companies either raised their funds through legitimate channels such as collective investment schemes, non-convertible debentures and preference shares, or illegitimately through hoax financial instruments such as teak bonds, potato bonds or fictitious ventures in agro-export, construction and manufacturing. , 80% of multi-level marketing and finance schemes against which complaints have been received are based in West Bengal, giving the state the title of \"Ponzi capital of India\". It is estimated that these Ponzi funds have amassed around from unsuspecting depositors in Eastern India.\n\nSudipto Sen was the chairman and managing director of the Saradha Group. Sen was described as a softly spoken, charming, and forceful orator. At the time of his arrest, he was in his mid-50s. In his youth, he was known as Shankaraditya Sen, and was part of the Naxalite movement in West Bengal. He changed his name to Sudipto Sen and may have had plastic surgery sometime in the 1990s, after which he became associated with land development projects in South Kolkata. The land bank he formed in around 2000 became the catalyst for enticing early customers into his Ponzi scheme.\n\nDebjani Mukherjee was one of the executive directors of Saradha Group who could sign cheques on behalf of the group. She was arrested together with Sudipto Sen. At the time of her arrest Debjani was in her early 30s. She had studied at the St. John's Diocesan Girls' Higher Secondary School, and the Sivanath Sastri College. She trained as an air hostess. Mukherjee originally joined Saradha Group in 2010 as a receptionist, and rose rapidly to be the group's executive director. A story in India Today described her as a person with a reputation for generosity to her community.\n\nThe companies that were comprised by Saradha Group were incorporated in 2006. Its name is a cacography of Sarada Devi, the wife and spiritual counterpart of Ramakrishna Paramahamsaa nineteenth-century mystic of Bengal. This duplicitous association gave Saradha Group a veneer of respectability. Like all Ponzi schemes, Saradha Group promised astronomical returns in fanciful but credible investments. Its funds were sold on commission by agents recruited from local rural communities. Between 25 and 40% of the deposit was returned to these agents as commissions and lucrative gifts to quickly build up a wide agent pyramid. The group used a nexus of companies to launder money and evade regulators.\n\nInitially, the frontline companies collected money from the public by issuing secured debentures and redeemable preferential bonds. Under Indian Securities regulations and section 67 of the Indian Companies Act (1956), a company cannot raise capital from more than 50 people without issuing a proper prospectus and balance sheet. Its accounts must be audited and it must also have explicit permission to operate from the market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).\n\nSEBI first confronted Saradha Group in 2009. Saradha Group adapted by opening up to 200 new companies to create more cross-holdings. This created an extremely complex tiered corporate structure to confound SEBI by hampering their ability to consolidate blame. SEBI persisted in its investigation through 2010. Saradha Group reacted by changing its methods of raising capital. In West Bengal, Jharkhand, Assam and Chhattisgarh, it began operating variations of collective investment schemes (CIS) involving tourism packages, forward travel and hotel booking timeshare credit transfer, real estate, infrastructure finance, and motorcycle manufacturing. Investors were rarely informed about the true nature of their investments. Instead, many were told they would get high returns after a fixed period. With other investors, the investment was fraudulently sold in the form of a \"chit fund\". Under the Chit Fund Act (1982), chit funds are regulated by state governments rather than SEBI.\n\nSEBI warned the state government of West Bengal about Saradha Group's chit fund activities in 2011, again prompting Saradha Group to change its methods. This time, it acquired and sold large numbers of shares of various listed companies then embezzled the proceeds of the sale through accounts which have not been identified. Meanwhile, Saradha Group started laundering a large portion of its funds to Dubai, South Africa and Singapore. By 2012, SEBI was able to classify the group's activities as collective investment schemes rather than chit fundsand demanded that it immediately stop operating its investment schemes until it received permission to operate from SEBI. Saradha Group did not comply with this ruling and continued to operate until its collapse in April 2013.\n\nLike previous Ponzi schemes such as Anubhav teak plantations, Amway, Japanlife, Qnet and Speakasia, Saradha Group invested heavily in the building of its brand. With enormous funds at its disposal, Saradha invested in high visibility sectors, such as the Bengali film industry, where it recruited actress and Trinamool Congress (TMC) Member of Parliament (MP) Satabdi Roy as its brand ambassador. Bollywood actor and TMC MP Mithun Chakraborty was brought in as the brand ambassador of Saradha Group's media platform.\n\nSaradha Group also enlisted Kunal Ghosh, another TMC MP, as the CEO of the media group. Under Kunal Ghosh, the group acquired and established local television channels and newspapers, investing around in the media group. By 2013, it employed over 1,500 journalists and owned eight newspapers printed in five languages: \"Seven Sisters Post\" and \"Bengal Post\" (English dailies), \"Sakalbela\" and \"Kalom\" (Bengali dailies), \"Prabhat Varta\" (Hindi daily), \"Ajir Dainik Baturi\" (Assamese daily), \"Azad Hind\" (Urdu daily) and \"Parama\" (Bengali weekly magazine). It also owned Bengali news channels Tara Newz and Channel 10, Bengali general entertainment channels Tara Muzic and Tara Bangla, Punjabi general entertainment channel Tara Punjabi, an international channel aimed at the Indian diaspora, TV South East Asia and one FM radio station. Author Aparna Sen was made the editor of \"Parama\".\n\nIn 2011, Saradha Group bought Global Automobiles, a heavily indebted motorcycle company as a front for the latest version of its Ponzi scheme. Global Automobiles immediately stopped most production but kept 150 workers on its payroll who \"pretended to work whenever truckloads and busloads of prospective depositors of Saradha Realty visited the plant for a first-hand check before investing\". It also bought similar shell companies like West Bengal Awadhoot Agro Private Ltd, located in North 24-Parganas, and Landmark Cement in Bankura to showcase them to agents and depositors and convince them that the Saradha Group had diversified interests.\n\nAs part of its corporate social responsibility program, Saradha Group donated motorcycles to the Kolkata Police. On 19 July 2011, it persuaded Mamata Banerjee, the Chief Minister of West Bengal, to use its ambulances and motorcycles for the Jangalmahal area of West Midnapore. To further etch itself in the socio-cultural milieu of Bengal, Saradha Group invested in football rivals and the best-known football clubs in Bengal: Mohun Bagan A.C. ( 18 million in 2010–11) and East Bengal F.C. ( 35 million since 2010). The group also sponsored various Durga Puja celebrations organised by local political leaders.\n\nAllegedly several political leaders received financial support from Saradha Group, including MPs of TMC, the incumbent ruling party of West Bengal. MP Kunal Ghosh drew a salary of per month from Saradha Group, as an employee of the group. MP Srinjoy Bose was directly involved with the group's media operations. Transport Minister Madan Mitra headed the employees' union of the group and publicly encouraged people to invest their savings with it. Sudipto Sen, the group's chairman and managing director, reportedly spent to buy paintings by Mamata Banerjee, whose government later issued a notification that public libraries should buy and display Saradha Group newspapers. The group bought the loss-making company Landmark Cement, which was co-owned by textiles minister Shyamapada Mukherjee. The group also had financial dealings with Ganesh Dey, the confidential assistant of the finance minister of the erstwhile Left Front government, who was later expelled.\n\nPoliticians outside West Bengal also benefited from Saradha Group. Himanta Biswa Sarma, the Health and Education Minister of Assam, may have profited personally from the Ponzi scheme. Sen said he paid to Manoranjana Sinh, wife of former Congress MP from Assam and Central Government Cabinet minister Matang Sinh, to her father K.N Gupta to buy shares in a television channelallegedly at an inflated price. According to officials investigating the case, the actual amount paid could be almost double of what is being claimed. Some commentators state that this Ponzi scheme survived for so long because of its heavy political patronage.\n\nThe earliest public warnings about the reckless and fraudulent CIS in West Bengal started in 2009 from MPs Somendra Nath Mitra and Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury and TMC leader Sadhan Pande. Apart from the SEBI investigation, no executive actions were taken at this time. On 7 December 2012, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Duvvuri Subbarao said the West Bengal government should initiate \"suo motu\" action against companies that were indulging in financial malpractice. By that time, the Saradha Group Ponzi scheme was already beginning to unravel. In January 2013, the group's cash inflow was, for the first time, less than its cash payouts. This outcome is inevitable in a Ponzi scheme that is allowed to run full course. Sudipto Sen tried but failed to calm uneasy depositors and agents, and could not increase inflow of funds.\n\nOn 6 April 2013, Sen wrote an 18-page confessional letter to the CBI, in which he admitted that he had paid large sums of money to several politicians. He also stated that TMC leader Kunal Ghosh had forced him to enter into loss-making media ventures and blackmailed him into selling one of his television channels at below market price. Sen fled after posting this letter on 10 April.\n\nIn his absence, the Ponzi scheme unravelled. On 17 April, around 600 collection agents claiming to be associated with Saradha Group assembled at the headquarters of TMC and demanded government intervention. Despondency quickly spread across Bengal. A Times of India interviewee said, \"'The entire Dakshin Barasat today looks like it was hit by a cyclone. Every home has a bankrupt depositor or a fugitive agent. People who were once friends became enemies. Happy households became miserable. Students stopped going to school. Traders lost interest in opening shutters. There is a sense of treachery that has replaced the warmth of a neighbourhood. Suddenly everything has become vicious.\" By this time, the Saradha Group financial scandal had colloquially become known as \"Bonzi\"a portmanteau of the words Ponzi and Bengal.\n\nOn 18 April, an arrest warrant for Sudipto Sen was issued. By 20 April, the news of potentially the largest Ponzi scheme in India had become headline news in West Bengal, and then front-page news nationally. After evading the authorities for a week, Sudipto Sen, Debjani Mukherjee and Arvind Singh Chauhan were arrested in Sonmarg, Kashmir, on 23 April 2013. On the same day, SEBI stated that both chain marketing and forward contracts are forms of CIS, and officially asked Saradha Group to immediately desist from raising any further capital and return all deposits within three months.\n\nOn 22 April 2013 the Mamata Banerjee led West Bengal government announced that a four-member judicial inquiry commission headed by Shyamal Kumar Sen, retired Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court, would probe the scam. The commission was named the Justice Shyamal Sen Commission of Enquiry (Saradha Group of Companies and other similar companies). West Bengal's Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was reported to have said, \"ja gechhey ta gechhey\" (whatever has gone has gone). On 24 April 2013, Banerjee announced a controversial relief fund for the low income depositors of the Saradha Group, introducing a 10% additional tax on tobacco products to raise the money and in jest asked smokers \"to light up a little more\". The propriety of the fund was later questioned by the Governor of RBI. The West Bengal government also set up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) u/s 36 of the CrPC, with officers drawn from the state's CID and Kolkata Police, to pool the criminal cases and investigate the Saradha Group. Mamata Banerjee led State Government staunchly opposed all investigations by federal investigative agencies CBI, ED and SFIO; conceding only after the Supreme Court ordered the federal agencies to take up the investigation.\n\nThe state government decided to repeal an existing Bill passed by the Left Front Government in 2009, which had not received the approval of the President of India. On 30 April 2013 the new Bill—The West Bengal Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Bill (2013), was passed in a two-day special session of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly. The new law has provisions for retrospective effect, search and seizure, enhanced penalties, establishment of special courts and confiscation of property. As the Bill pertained to the Concurrent List of the Indian Constitution, on which a federal law was already in place, it required approval from the President. The Bill was sent to the Union Home Ministry, which sent it back to the West Bengal Assembly on 6 June 2013, stating that the Bill has penal provisions implemented with retrospective effect, thus contravening the Basic structure doctrine of the Indian constitution and the established criminal law jurisprudence. On 12 December 2013, the West Bengal Legislative Assembly passed an amended version of the original Bill, incorporating changes suggested by the financial services, and revenue and economic affairs departments in New Delhi. The new Bill was then sent for presidential approval.\n\nOn 8 May 2013, Banerjee said West Bengal was considering setting up a government-backed small savings fund to encourage small depositors to invest in it rather than in Ponzi schemes. Doubts whether a cash-starved state with high debt burden has the financial acumen or political will to independently administer such a fund.\n\nOn 23 May 2013, Bannerjee indicated the West Bengal government's willingness to take over Saradha-owned television channels \"Tara News\" and \"Tara Muzic\", which had earlier been sent into administration by Calcutta High Court.\n\nOn 4 April 2013, the Assam Legislative Assembly unanimously passed the Assam Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) (Amendment) Bill (2013) to enhance the protections available to depositors and to curb fraudulent financial schemes. Soon after the Saradha scam, Assam Government sent the Bill to the State Governor for his approval so it could be forwarded to President of India for his assent.\n\nOn 22 April 2013, Assam Police sealed five offices of Saradha Group amid protests by depositors, agents and employees, and accusations that a minister, a former DGP and government officials had facilitated the group's business ventures in Assam. Unlike in West Bengal, where the probe is based on FIRs filed by defrauded depositors, the Assam Government \"suo motto\" registered 222 cases against Saradha Group and 127 other companies after widespread protests in Assam. In 17 cases, charge sheets have been filed against 42 people belonging to 15 companies. 303 people have been arrested for embezzling public money. The government seized nearly in cash from those arrested. 106 bank accounts with deposits of were frozen while a number of plots totalling more than 99 bighas and buildings have been identified; steps were taken for their attachment. On 6 May 2013, Assam handed the investigation to CBI.\n\nOn the basis of complaints filed by over 6000 depositors mainly from districts adjoining Bengal, the Government of Odisha ordered the Crime Branch of Odisha Police to investigate the Saradha scam. The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of the Crime Branch of Odisha Police registered criminal cases against Sudipto Sen and Saradha Group. On 3 May 2013, Odisha police seized documents and sealed the group's local offices. During the transfer of the investigation to CBI in May 2014, EOW had registered up to 207 cases relating to 43 of the group's 44 companies and had arrested 440 people. Charge sheets for cheating and criminal conspiracy were filed in 120 cases under provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, and the Odisha Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act.\n\nOn 9 May 2013, the Government of Tripura handed over all the cases involving deposit-collecting companies in the state to CBI and the Income Tax Department.\n\nIn March 2013, Central corporate affairs minister Sachin Pilot said in the Lok Sabhathe lower house of the Parliament of Indiathat his ministry has received complaints against West Bengal's Saradha Group and many other companies for their involvement in Ponzi or multi-layer-marketing schemes. No action was taken until after the fraud was uncovered, when many measures were announced. On 25 April 2013, India's Income Tax department and Ministry of Corporate Affairs started separate investigation into the Saradha affair and similar Ponzi funds masquerading as NBFCs or CISs. On the same day, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) registered a money laundering case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) at its Guwahati office because the Assam police has registered an FIR against Saradha Group to investigate depositors' allegations of financial irregularities. On 1 May 2013, commenting on the regulatory loopholes, the Chairman of SEBI said, \"there should be one single regulator for entire collective investment schemes\".\n\nOn 7 May 2013, the Central Government set up an inter-ministerial group with members of the corporate affairs ministry, SEBI, Reserve Bank of India and officers from the Income Tax Department. The group is intended to unify the regulations of investment schemes by NBFCs, banks and companies, which were governed by different laws and regulations, leading to regulatory loopholes. In light of the fraud, SEBI requested sweeping powers to investigate and prosecute fraudulent CISs. In August 2013, the Central Government amended the SEBI Act and gave SEBI powers to search and seize without prior magisterial permission to investigate illegal money collection schemes.\n\nThe crash of the Ponzi scheme and the publication of Sudipto Sen's letter led to a barrage of cross-party accusations. CPM accused TMC of associating with the 'chit fund', TMC alleged that Union Minister of Finance's wife Nalini Chidambaram had taken lawyers' fees from Saradha Group to incorporate its companies and should be investigated. TMC blamed CPM for letting Ponzi funds grow in Bengal.\n\nThe Saradha scandal became a major campaign issue amongst the political parties in West Bengal during the 2014 national election. Allegations were made by all the political parties in the state. While the CPM, Congress and BJP again accused TMC of facilitating and profiting from the fraud, TMC said the companies were allowed to register during the government run by CPM in the state and Congress in the centre. Mamata Bannerjee, Chief Minister of West Bengal and Chairperson of TMC, attacked P. Chidambaram, the finance minister of the central government, alleging a political vendetta in the timingcoinciding with the parliamentary electionsof a spurt in Enforcement Directorate investigation. More political controversy occurred when Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate, said Mamata Bannerjee may have directly benefited from the Ponzi scheme when her paintings were allegedly bought for by the Saradha Group. TMC replied to the allegations, threatened legal action for defamation and called Modi the \"Butcher of Gujarat\". On 11 September 2014, West Bengal law minister Chandrima Bhattacharya led around 100 TMC women supporters in a sit-in protest against CBI, alleging a biased and \"politically motivated probe\".\n\nStreet protests broke out across West Bengal, during some of which protesters ransacked offices of various Ponzi funds. The agents and depositors of several money mobilising funds in West Bengal organised themselves into the Chit Fund Sufferers Unity Forum (CFSUF) and demanded swift investigation and the reimbursement of deposits. The Forum engaged in several, high-visibility, disruptive protests; it was allegedly threatened and intimidated by TMC, the ruling political party. \nAccording to media reports, around 210 agents, depositors and executives or directors of various money pooling companies have committed suicide in the aftermath of the Saradha Group's collapse.\n\nIn September 2014, Bengali newspaper \"Anandabazar Patrika\", citing several domestic and foreign intelligence reports, published a series of articles reporting that Saradha Group through Ahmed Hassan Imran, a TMC MP and founder member of Student Islamic Movement of India, engaged Jamaat-e-Islami, a Bangladeshi extremist organisation, to move money out of India. Jamaat-e-Islami used its brokerage from the laundering operation to fuel its militant protests against the war crime trials of its founders and destabilise the Awami League government in Bangladesh.\n\nIn response to the expose, the Government of Bangladesh, led by Sheikh Hasina, ordered the formation of a commission to further investigate the matter. Mamata Bannerjee summoned the Deputy High Commissioner of Bangladesh to lodge a protest for an alleged protocol violation for \"selective leaks in media\". During subsequent bilateral meetings, Bangladesh Foreign Minister Abul Hassan Mahmud Ali conveyed deep apprehensions about funding for terrorists flowing from India to Bangladesh to Ajit Doval, the Indian National Security Advisor (NSA). Bangladeshi human rights activist Shahriar Kabir also raised concerns about Saradha funds being moved through an extremist organisation to terrorist organisations like Al Qaeda.\n\nOn 22 April 2013, separate Public Interest Litigations (PIL) were filed in Guwahati High Court by RTI activist Akhil Gogoi and in Calcutta High Court by advocate Basabi Roy Chowdhury and subsequently by advocate Rabi Sankar Chattopadhyay and Bikas Ranjan Bhattacharya, both seeking CBI investigation against the Saradha Group and other chit fund companies.\nOn 25 April, responding to the PIL, a division bench of Calcutta High Court comprising Chief Justice Arun Kumar Mishra and Justice Joymalya Bagchi said that because the ramifications of the scam included other states, a central agency would do justice to the investigation. The court gave state government one week to submit its investigation report to see whether the probe was being conducted in a fair manner. On 7 May 2013, Calcutta High Court appointed a three-member administrator group to run \"Tara News\" and \"Tara Muzic\". The High Court then allowed the SIT to continue with the investigation and ordered it to submit a timely progress report before the court. The petitioners were dissatisfied with the order and appealed to the Supreme Court of India in July 2013 via a Special Leave Petition (SLP). Before the Supreme Court the Government of West Bengal stated that the investigation into the scam was being successfully conducted by the SIT.\n\nThe state governments of Orissa, Jharkhand and Tripura, which were respondent to the case, requested a CBI enquiry. The SC bench led by Justice T.S. Thakur and Justice C. Nagappan in April, 2014 said the Supreme Court may order a CBI probe into all money collection entities in India. On 9 May 2014, the same bench of the Supreme Court ordered CBI to investigate all Ponzi schemes, including Saradha, in Eastern India. The Court also clarified the concurrent attachment and auction of the assets of suspected Ponzi companies to reimburse depositors at the end of the judicial proceedings initiated by Enforcement Directorate authorised under federal laws and various state agencies authorised under state laws would also run parallel to the CBI investigation.\n\nCompanies illegally moving deposits diverted an estimated sum of from small savings funds promoted by state government since 2010. Official data show a steady decline in small-savings deposits and a rise in withdrawals, which left a reduced amount from which the state government could borrow. This affected the overall macroeconomic situation of the state; instead of being used by government for public funding, the money went into Ponzi schemes that were either diverted to foreign locations or were put to use for private gains.\n\nIt was feared that legitimate non-banking financial companies and micro finance institutions would be stigmatised, leading to a vicious cycle of low depositor trust, higher interest rates, lower lending and a localised credit crisis. Because most of the Saradha Group depositors came from the lowest economic strata, the loss of the investment would cause a further decrease in social mobility. The scandal drew attention to similar illegal deposit mobilising companies, which are facing increased regulatory pressure. Many of these companies have been variations of time share travel schemes, of which there are few clear regulations. These companies tried to register as cooperative societies to continue their financial operations.\n\nFIR was filed against Sudipto Sen and Kunal Ghosh on 14 April 2013. Around six officials from Saradha Group were arrested. The investigation was headed by the detective department of Bidhannagar police. The investigation was widened to include other Ponzi funds. Kunal Ghosh and other Ponzi fund officials from Saradha were repeatedly questioned by police to determine the true assets of the company and other facets of the fraud. Ghosh was arrested by SIT in November 2013 after he posted a list of 12 names on his Facebook page; these included at least four TMC MPs and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.\n\nAs per the initial SIT reports, Saradha Group had mobilised through issuance of its policies. By April 2014, around 385 FIRs against Sardha Group, in which SIT filed 288 chargesheets, had been filed. 453 FIRs were filed against other money pooling companies and Ponzi funds, and 75 charge sheets were filed before the court.\n\nSince 2 May 2013, after complaints from depositors, state government ordered SIT to broaden its investigation and conduct search and seizure at offices of MPS Greenery Developers Ltd and Prayag Infotech Hi-Rise Ltd, which were running unregistered collective investment schemes similar to Saradha Group. By 6 May 2013, police had arrested directors of Ponzi companies ATM Group and Annex Infrastructure Pvt Ltd on charges of defrauding depositors. According to news-reports, at the time of handing the Saradha Group investigation to CBI, SIT had arrested 11 people, had traced 224 immovable properties, seized 54 vehicles and had filed charge sheet in almost 300 pending cases.\n\nBy mid-August 2013, the Justice Shyamal Sen Commission finished its initial compilation of the list of claimants. Around 1.74 million depositors filed claims with the Commission, of which 83% invested or less. The Commission recommended that West Bengal state government sell the assets of Saradha Group and proportionally distribute the returns among defrauded investors. By April 2014, the Commission had refunded 400,000 depositors who had invested less than 10,000. The Commission received claims from 500,000 depositors who were defrauded by Ponzi funds other than Saradha; the Commission did not refund any of these depositors. In April 2014, Calcutta High Court sought a report from the Commission on the discriminatory standards being applied to the refunding of depositors.\n\nOn 30 April 2013 CBI started investigating into the Saradha Group scandal in Assam at the request of the state government. Chief Minister of Tripura said Tripura may also order a CBI probe into Saradha Group.\n\nIn West Bengal, because the criminal investigation had not initially been handed over to the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED)a Central Government agency which primarily probes money launderingled the investigation on behalf of the Central Government. In April, 2014, ED arrested the absconding wife, son and daughter-in-law of Sudipta Sen, all of whom had been directors of various companies of Saradha Group. ED also questioned TMC MPs Ahmad Hassan and Arpita Ghosh about their financial transactions with Saradha Group. ED alleged that West Bengal police has not cooperated with it and obstructed its investigation.\n\nIn May 2014, the Supreme Court transferred all investigations into 44 deposit-mobilising companiesincluding Saradha Groupsuspected of running Ponzi schemes in the states of West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Jharkhand and Tripura, to CBI. As per Supreme Court's order Bengal SIT handed over all arrested suspects including Sudipto Sen, Debjani Mukherjee and Kunal Ghosh over to CBI. CBI questioned several prominent personalities who were connected with Saradha Group; someincluding TMC vice president and former Director General of Police (DGP) in West Bengal Rajat Majumdar, Assamese singer and filmmaker Sadananda Gogoi and former advocate general of Odisha Ashok Mohanty. Former Assam DGP Shankar Barua who was a suspect in the Saradha scandal and whose house was searched by CBI, committed suicide. On 21 November 2014 CBI arrested Srinjoy Bose, another TMC parliamentarian in connection with the scam. On 12 December 2014, CBI arrested West Bengal Transport minister Madan Mitra on the charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, misappropriation and deriving undue financial benefits from the Saradha Group.\n\nIn February 2014, Sudipta Sen was convicted in a case where he was charged, under various provisions of employment law, as a director of Saradha Group for his failure to deposit with the provident fund authorities INR 0.03 million that his firm owed to its employees; he was sentenced by the trial court to three years in jail, it was the first conviction in a series of civil and criminal cases, relating to corporate fraud and non-payment of deposits, pending against him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4606890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4606890", "title": "Scotlandshire", "text": "Scotlandshire\n\nScotlandshire is a term used to denote either the anglicisation of Scotland or the subordinate political relationship with England. It is recorded as early as 1706 in James Hodges' anti-Union \"Third Treatise\".\n\nBy placing the suffix \"-shire\" after the country's name, the term attempts to parody the early modern tendency to place the word \"-shire\" after some ancient Scottish regions, as well as implicating in a tongue-in-cheek manner that Scotland has the status of an English county, rather than that of a distinct nation. Hence, the term is political in nature. \n\nSeveral historic regions of Scotland have at times had the suffix \"-shire\" added when Scotland broadly adopted English-style county councils during the 19th Century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3469988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3469988", "title": "Second Biesheuvel cabinet", "text": "Second Biesheuvel cabinet\n\nThe Second Biesheuvel cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 9 August 1972 until 11 May 1973. The cabinet was formed by the political parties Catholic People's Party (KVP), People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) and the Christian Historical Union (CHU) after the resignation of the First Biesheuvel cabinet. The centre-right rump cabinet served as a caretaker government until the election of 1972.\n\nFollowing the fall of the First Biesheuvel cabinet the Democratic Socialists '70 (DS'70) left the coalition and the Catholic People's Party, People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, Anti-Revolutionary Party and the Christian Historical Union formed a Rump cabinet. Because the following negotiations for forming the next cabinet took rather long, the cabinet took further reaching decisions than a caretaker cabinet is usually supposed to do.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8911241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8911241", "title": "Socialist Propaganda League", "text": "Socialist Propaganda League\n\nThe Socialist Propaganda League was a tiny socialist group active in London from circa 1911 to 1951.\n\nThe League was formed as a result of an early dispute in the Socialist Party of Great Britain and of the optimistic belief of the Party’s founder members that the socialist revolution was near. A group of members around Henry Martin and Augustus Snellgrove wanted the Party to take a definitive stand on the attitude socialist delegates elected to parliament or local councils would take towards reform measures proposed by one or more of the capitalist parties.\n\nIn February 1910 a letter from \"W.B. (Upton Park)\" was sent to the \"Socialist Standard\" asking, The perspective of this small group of members was that no reform of capitalism could ever be supported by the party claiming to represent working-class interests as it was not the job of socialists to take part in the running of capitalism. Any attempt to do so would run counter to the famous ‘hostility clause’ of the Party's Declaration of Principles. The \"Standard\"’s reply on the matter, backed by the Party’s Executive Committee, stated that This did not satisfy the members who had raised the question, who formed a ‘Provisional Committee’ aimed at overturning the position espoused in the \"Standard\"’s reply and who set their case out in an ‘Open Letter’ to Party members, arguing that socialists were required to oppose measures introduced by capitalist parties on each and every occasion. This was again rebutted firmly by the EC who contended that it would be ridiculous for socialists, by way of example, to oppose a measure designed to stop a war in which the working class was being butchered.\n\nBelieving this approach to be a violation of the principle of ‘no compromise’, several members resigned over this issue during 1911, a small number going on to found the Socialist Propaganda League. The SPL’s principal speaker and writer was Henry Martin, Snellgrove having been one of\nthose from the Provisional Committee later to rejoin the SPGB. Though Martin was sympathetic to the SPGB in all other respects, he continued to denounce the its willingness to engage in ‘political trading’ in pamphlets and on the outdoor platform until his death in 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "3410876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3410876", "title": "Soviet Border Troops", "text": "Soviet Border Troops\n\nSoviet Border Troops () were the militarized border guard of the Soviet Union, subordinated to its subsequently reorganized state security agency: first to \"Cheka\"/OGPU, then to NKVD/MGB and, finally, to KGB. Accordingly, they were known as NKVD Border Troops and KGB Border Troops (with Russian abbreviations - НКВД СССР/- КГБ СССР added on the end of official names). Unlike border guards of many other countries, Soviet Border Troops also included the maritime border guarding units (i.e., a coast guard).\n\nThe mission of the Border Troops included repulsing armed incursions into Soviet territory; preventing illegal crossings of the border or the transport of weapons, explosives, contraband or subversive literature across the border; monitoring the observance of established procedures at border crossing points; monitoring the observance by Soviet and foreign ships of navigation procedures in Soviet territorial waters; and assisting state agencies in the preservation of natural resources and the protection of the environment from pollution. Border guards were authorized to examine documents and possessions of persons crossing the borders and to confiscate articles; to conduct inquiries in cases of violations of the state border; and to take such actions as arrest, search and interrogation of individuals suspected of border violations.\n\nThey became the Border Service of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation on December 30, 1993.\n\nIn 1934, under the NKVD, Border Troops were immediately subordinated to the GUPVO (abbreviated \"Chief Directorate of Border and Internal Guard\"). In 1939 they were reorganized into the GUPV (\"Chief Directorate of Border Troops\").\n\nNKVD Border Troops consisted of infantry, cavalry, reconnaissance, naval and airforce units.\n\nSince the 1920s, the distinctive part of Soviet Border Troops uniform was the medium-green colored parts of headwear and insignia (Russian Empire's has it distinction since 1893). The color is also present on a maritime Border Troops ensign.\n\nAfter the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, the Border Troops assisted the pacification of the newly acquired Soviet territory adjoining the state border. The mass execution of Romanian civilians known as the Fântâna Albă massacre happened at this time.\n\nBorder Troops units on the western USSR frontier saw particularly fierce combat in the first weeks of the German invasion of the USSR (June–July 1941). They bore the brunt of the initial German assault, and due to this, suffered high casualty rates. Border Troop servicemen were among the defenders of the Brest Fortress. Border troops from other parts of the Soviet border were also involved in the fighting of the war. Notably, the 105th, 157th, and 333rd Border Troops regiments (operating like regular army units) took part in the Battle for Berlin in 1945.\n\nDuring and after the war, 150 border guards were awarded the title of the Hero of the Soviet Union and over 13,000 of them were decorated with different orders and medals.\n\nIn wartime, the Border Troops would become a frontline combat service. The Border Troops also saw combat in 1969 in border clashes with Chinese soldiers on islands in the Ussuri River.\n\nAfter the formation of the KGB, Soviet Border Troops became subordinated to this agency and remained so until the dissolution of the Soviet Union. As such, the Troops were concentrating on the tasks of preventing espionage infiltrations. The Border Guards were involved in the Soviet war in Afghanistan and a number of them were even awarded the Hero of the Soviet Union for their bravery during these conflicts.\n\nThe Soviet border was the longest in the world and it comprised harsh terrain and climates; accordingly the Border Troops employed significant manpower, intensive maritime presence, and a dense and sophisticated system of field engineering devices. The most notable in that system was the trace-control strip () - a primitive labour-demanding method making surface crossing virtually impossible.\n\nThe Border Troops consisted of conscripts drafted by the same system as for the Soviet Army, and a small number of professional enlistees. Officers were trained in specialized academies. Both conscripts and officer candidates for Border Troops were carefully selected and checked by the KGB. This made service in the troops privileged.\n\n\nThe legal status, duties, and rights of the Border Troops were set forth in the Law on the State Border, confirmed by the Supreme Soviet on November 24, 1982. Article 28 defined the basic duties of the Border Troops. Their duties included repulsing armed incursions into Soviet territory; preventing illegal crossings of the border or the transport of weapons, explosives, contraband, or subversive literature across the border; monitoring the observance of established procedures at border crossing points; monitoring the observance by Soviet and foreign ships of navigation procedures in Soviet territorial waters; and assisting state agencies in the preservation of natural resources and the protection of the environment from pollution. Border guards were authorized to examine documents and possessions of persons crossing the borders and to confiscate articles; to conduct inquiries in cases of violations of the state border; and to take such actions as arrest, search, and interrogation of individuals suspected of border violations.\n\nThe Border Troops strength was estimated in 1989 to be in the range of 230,000 men. Although under the operational authority of the KGB, the Border Troops were conscripted as part of the biannual call-up of the Ministry of Defense, and their induction and discharge were regulated by the 1967 Law on Universal Military Service, which covered all armed forces of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe Border Troops Directorate administered approximately nine border districts (pogranichnye okruga), which covered the nearly 63,000 kilometers of the state border. Border district boundaries were distinct from civil or military district boundaries.\n\nThe nine border districts were subdivided into detachments (otriady), covering specific sections of the border, border command posts (pogranichnye komendatury), passport control points (kontrol'no-propusknye punkty), and border outposts (zastavy).\n\nThe border area was divided into a border zone, which included the territory of the district and settlements adjacent to the state border, and the border strip, which was approximately two kilometers in depth, running directly along the border. Only permanent residents or those who had obtained special permission from the MVD could enter the border zone. Entry into the border strip was forbidden without special permission from the Border Troops.\n\nThe Maritime Border Troops of the Russian Border Troops operated within the twelve-mile limit of Soviet territorial waters. It was equipped with frigates and corvettes, fast patrol boats, hydrofoils, helicopters, and light aircraft.\n\nIn 1989 the 103rd Guards Airborne Division, Soviet Airborne Forces, was transferred briefly to the Border Troops.\n\nEnlisted men were trained with their operational units, whereas officers were trained in special Border Troops schools, such as the Dzerzhinskii Higher Border Command School in Alma-Ata (Kazakh SSR) and the Mossovet Higher Border Command School in Moscow. Military-political officers received training at the Voroshilov Higher Border Military-Political School, founded in the 1930s and located outside Leningrad. In 1972 a higher border military-political school was created in Golytsin, near Moscow. More recently, higher border command faculties were set up at the Frunze Military Academy and the Lenin Military-Political Academy. The period of instruction at the Higher Border Command and Military-Political Schools was four years. Officer candidates, who were screened carefully by their local KGB offices before admittance, took general higher education courses along with specialized military and political studies.\n\nSoviet sources repeatedly stressed that a border guard was not only a soldier but also a defender of Soviet ideology. His mission entailed sensitive political tasks, such as detecting subversive literature. To ensure a high level of discipline among personnel of the Border Troops, much attention was devoted to political training and indoctrination. For this purpose, a network of political organs, the Political Directorate of the Border Troops, was established within the Border Troops. It had political departments within all the border districts, detachments, and education institutions, and a network of full-time party political officers worked among all troop units. They conducted political study groups, gave propaganda lectures, and worked to increase the level of combat effectiveness among the troops.\n\n\nWith the fall of Soviet Union, Border Troops formations in most Soviet republics became border guards of the respective independent states. These new guards mostly changed their name and subordination. The new states of Armenia and Tajikistan are unique exceptions. Tajikistan's border with Afghanistan was guarded by the Russian Border Guard (engaging in heavy fighting) until the late 1990s under a special treaty. Armenia's border is still guarded by Russians under similar conditions.\n\nIn Russia and some other post-Soviet states, the Border Troops retained some Soviet traditions, most notably the green shoulder boards on their uniforms and \"Border Guard's Day\" (), an official holiday celebrated both by active service and former border guards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1069074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069074", "title": "Special rights", "text": "Special rights\n\nSpecial rights is a term originally used by conservatives and libertarians to refer to laws granting rights to one or more groups that are not extended to other groups. Ideas of special rights are controversial, as they clash with the principle of equality before the law.\n\nPotential examples of special rights include affirmative action policies or hate crime legislation with regard to ethnic, religious or sexual minorities or state recognition of marriage as a group with different taxation from those who are not married.\n\nConcepts of \"special rights\" are closely aligned with notions of group rights and identity politics.\n\nMore recently, social conservatives have used the term to more narrowly refer to measures that extend existing rights for heterosexual couples to gays and lesbians, such as in the case of same sex marriage, or that include sexual orientation as a civil rights minority group.\n\nThe term is also used internationally, for example \"Sonderrechte\" in Germany, but it is used also about special traffic right-of-way exceptions given to emergency response and military vehicles.\n\nThe basis behind the argument of the term is based on whether it should be considered just and legal for a law to treat various parties unequally. For example, in the US Constitution the prohibition on bills of attainder require that laws do not single out a single person or group of persons for specific treatment.\n\nAnother example is the equal protection clause in the Fourteenth Amendment. Both sides argue that the other side is or has traditionally been singled out and so the law is either needed or unnecessary.\n\nIn some cases, such as those with social implications, the universal definition of rights also often conflict with other, often more regional or local, laws that require certain public standards or behavior based on cultural norms.\n\nIn \"The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism\", Eric Mack states:\n\nA too-ready acceptance of alleged rights leads to an oppressive list of enforceable obligations. As the list of others' rights grows, each of us is subject to a growing burden made up of the obligations correlative to those rights; correspondingly the ability of rights to be protective of individual choice dissolves. Moreover, as the list of rights grows, so too does the legitimate role of political and legal institutions, and the libertarian case for radically limiting the scope and power of such institutions withers away. Libertarian theories of rights avoid generating an oppressive list of obligations through the employment of two crucial distinctions – the distinction between negative and positive rights and the distinction between general and special rights.\nMinority rights advocacy groups often contend that such protections confer no special rights, and describe these laws instead as protecting equal rights, due to past conditions or legal privileges for specific groups.\n\n\nPotential Examples:\n"}
{"id": "38076499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38076499", "title": "Stuart Sim", "text": "Stuart Sim\n\nStuart Sim is a literary critic, social critic and critical theorist currently holding place as professor of English literature at Northumbria University (School of Arts & Social Sciences). He is known for his researches on globalization, postmodernism, poststructuralism, postmarxism, continental philosophy, cultural theory and critical theory. \nHe has taught in the Open University, North-West Region, and also the University of Sunderland and is the author, or editor, of 30 books. Sim has also written numerous journal articles and book chapters and His work has been translated into 17 languages. He was elected a Fellow of the English Association in 2002. He received his BA and PhD from Manchester University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31930474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31930474", "title": "United Nations University Institute for Sustainability and Peace", "text": "United Nations University Institute for Sustainability and Peace\n\nThe United Nations University Institute for Sustainability and Peace (UNU-ISP) is an institute of the United Nations University (UNU), a think tank for the United Nations system which provides a bridge between the UN and the international academic and policy-making communities. UNU-ISP is based at UNU headquarters in Tokyo, Japan, with an Operating Unit located in Germany (UNU-ISP SCYCLE).\n\nUNU-ISP seeks to achieve and promote a better understanding of three of the most pressing issues on the UN agenda: global change, peace and security, and development. With an innovative approach to sustainability, the work of the institute bridges these cross-cutting themes through research, educational and collaborative initiatives with the aim of solving current problems and anticipating future challenges.\n\nAs an institute of the United Nations University, UNU-ISP is bound by the UNU Charter, and guidelines set out by the UNU Council.\nUNU-ISP works in collaboration with other UNU institutes and programmes, as well as through collaborative relationships with the global academic and policy-making communities.\nWithin the context of sustainability and peace, UNU-ISP:\nUNU-ISP offers a postgraduate programme, the Master of Science in Sustainability, Development, and Peace. This two-year programme addresses pressing global issues through an innovative interdisciplinary approach that integrates the natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities.\n\nUNU-ISP became operational on 1 January 2009 to give an institutional identity and profile to the integrated academic activities of two former UNU programmes: the Environment and Sustainable Development Programme, and the Peace and Governance Programme. The institute combines the strengths in natural sciences, social sciences and the humanities of these two former programmes, and creates trans-disciplinary synergies that can more effectively address pressing global problems of human survival, development and welfare.\n\nIn line with the UNU Charter, the research of UNU-ISP addresses \"global problems of human survival, development and welfare that are the concern of the United Nations and its agencies\". UNU-ISP applies innovative, holistic approaches to identify sustainable solutions to such problems, cross-fertilizing natural science and social science methodologies through teams working on institute-wide, cross-cutting themes.\nThe institute conducts policy-relevant research into the following three thematic areas, while integrating overarching elements such as ecological security, human rights, gender, and governance:\n\nThe global change and sustainability focus of UNU-ISP seeks to clarify our understanding of sustainable development and the interaction among its constituent components – environment, society and economy.\n\nUNU-ISP develops research addressing threats to peace such as violent conflicts, human rights abuses, organized crime, the spread of diseases, the proliferation of weapons and terrorism.\n\nUNU-ISP develops research addressing underdevelopment; underrepresentation in decision-making; economic and social inequalities both within and between states; and insufficient access to resources, healthcare, education, science and technology.\n\nUNU-ISP offers this Master of Science (M.Sc.) degree, intended for recent graduates, professionals and practitioners interested in the unique opportunity of studying at a global university within the framework of the United Nations.\n\nThe programme addresses pressing global issues of sustainability, climate change, development, peacebuilding and human rights through an innovative interdisciplinary approach that integrates the natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities. It provides students with the knowledge and skills to make important contributions towards solving global issues, whether through employment by UN agencies, other international organizations, governments, civil society, or the private sector.\n\nA practically oriented, user-focused programme of the highest academic quality, it offers opportunities to gain practical experience through internships or field research with a UN agency or other international organization. The programme builds on UNU’s strong record in training and capacity development, and utilizes the extensive network of scholars and academic institutions participating in UNU research.\n\nUNU-ISP has a strong commitment to capacity development, with a particular focus on enhancing the capacity of individuals and institutions in developing countries.\n\nEvery year UNU-ISP organizes the regular session of its six-week UNU International Courses (UNU-IC) at UNU headquarters in Tokyo, Japan. The UNU-IC programme is designed for postgraduate students and young professionals (with a college or university degree) in various occupations in Japan and abroad who wish to pursue careers in international fields in public-service or private organizations, including the United Nations, multinational corporations and non-governmental organizations as well as national foreign service organizations. The courses are designed to provide analyses of global issues from both theoretical and empirical perspectives.\n\nThe aim of the UNU Global Seminars is to enhance awareness about contemporary global issues and the role of the United Nations in addressing those issues. Students and young professionals are given the opportunity to interact with distinguished scholars and practitioners from Japan and abroad, and to explore a specific issue in depth through lectures and group discussions. These sessions are open to university students, graduate students and young professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "42908311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42908311", "title": "Woman in Gold (film)", "text": "Woman in Gold (film)\n\nWoman in Gold is a 2015 biographical drama film directed by Simon Curtis and written by Alexi Kaye Campbell. The film stars Helen Mirren, Ryan Reynolds, Daniel Brühl, Katie Holmes, Tatiana Maslany, Max Irons, Charles Dance, Elizabeth McGovern, and Jonathan Pryce.\n\nThe film is based on the true story of Maria Altmann, an elderly Jewish refugee living in Cheviot Hills, Los Angeles, who, together with her young lawyer, Randy Schoenberg, fought the government of Austria for almost a decade to reclaim Gustav Klimt's iconic painting of her aunt, \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I\", which was stolen from her relatives by the Nazis in Vienna just prior to World War II. Altmann took her legal battle all the way to the Supreme Court of the United States, which ruled on the case \"Republic of Austria v. Altmann\" (2004).\n\nThe film was screened in the Berlinale Special Galas section of the 65th Berlin International Film Festival on 9 February 2015, and was released in the United Kingdom on 1 April 2015 and in the United States on 10 April.\n\nIn a series of flashbacks throughout the film, Maria Altmann recalls the arrival of Nazi forces in Vienna, and the subsequent persecution of the Jewish community and the looting and pillaging conducted by the Nazis against Jewish families. Seeking to escape before the country is completely shut off, Maria Altmann and members of her family attempt to flee to the United States. While Altmann and her husband are successful in their escape, she is forced to abandon her parents in Vienna.\n\nIn the present, living in Los Angeles, a now elderly and widowed Altmann attends the funeral for her sister. She discovers letters in her sister's possession dating to the late 1940s, which reveal an attempt to recover artwork owned by the Bloch-Bauer family that was left behind during the family's flight for freedom and subsequently stolen by the Nazis. Of particular note is a painting of Altmann's aunt, Adele Bloch-Bauer, now known in Austria as the \"Woman in Gold\".\n\nAltmann enlists the help of E. Randol Schoenberg (the son of her close friend, Barbara), a lawyer with little experience, to make a claim to the art restitution board in Austria. Reluctantly returning to her homeland, Altmann discovers that the country's minister and art director are unwilling to part with the painting, which they feel has become part of the national identity. Altmann is told that the painting was in fact legitimately willed to the gallery by her aunt. Upon further investigation by her lawyer and Austrian journalist Hubertus Czernin, this claim proves to be incorrect, as the alleged will is invalid due to the fact that her aunt did not own the painting in question, the artist's fee having been paid by Altmann's uncle; moreover, Adele Bloch-Bauer wanted the painting to go to the museum at her husband's death while in fact it was taken from him by the Nazis and placed in the museum by a Nazi-collaborating curator, well before his death. Schoenberg files a challenge with the art restitution board, but it is denied and Altmann does not have the money needed to challenge the ruling. Defeated, she and Schoenberg return to the United States.\n\nMonths thereafter, happening upon an art book with \"Woman in Gold\" on the cover, Schoenberg has an epiphany. Using a narrow rule of law and precedents in which an art restitution law was retroactively applied, Schoenberg files a claim in US court against the Austrian government contesting their claim to the painting. An appeal goes to the Supreme Court of the United States, where in the matter of \"Republic of Austria v. Altmann\", the court rules in Altmann's favor, which results in the Austrian government attempting to persuade Altmann to retain the painting for the gallery, which she refuses. After a falling out over the issue of returning to Austria for a second time to argue the case, Altmann agrees for Schoenberg to go and argue the case in front of an arbitration panel of three arbiters in Vienna.\n\nIn Austria, the arbitration panel hears the case, during which Schoenberg reminds them of the Nazi regime's war crimes. He implores the arbitration panel to think of the meaning of the word \"restitution\" and to look past the artwork hanging in art galleries to see the injustice to the families who once owned such great paintings and were forcibly separated from them by the Nazis. Unexpectedly, Altmann arrives during the session, indicating to Czernin that she came to support her lawyer. After considering both sides of the dispute, the arbitration panel rules in favour of Altmann, returning her paintings. The Austrian government representative makes a last-minute proposal begging Altmann to keep the paintings in the Belvedere against a generous compensation. Altmann refuses and elects to have the painting moved to the United States with her (\"They will now travel to America like I once had to as well\"), and takes up an offer made earlier by Ronald Lauder to acquire them for his New York gallery to display the painting on condition that it be a permanent exhibit.\n\nOn 15 May 2014 Tatiana Maslany was cast in a principal role as the younger version of Helen Mirren's character, appearing in the Second World War flashbacks. On 29 May Katie Holmes joined the cast of the film. On 30 May Max Irons, Charles Dance, Elizabeth McGovern, Jonathan Pryce, Moritz Bleibtreu and Antje Traue joined the cast of the film. On 9 July Frances Fisher joined the film to play Reynolds' character's mother.\n\nThe reproduction of the key painting, \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I\", was painted by scenic artist Steve Mitchell, who spent five weeks making the re-creation. He also made a partly finished version as well as a partial version for a close-up.\n\nPrincipal photography began on 23 May 2014 and lasted for eight weeks in the United Kingdom, Austria, and the United States. On 9 June Katie Holmes was spotted filming some scenes in London. On 16 June the filming was under way in London. On 1 July Reynolds and Mirren were spotted filming in Vienna, Austria. On 9 July the filming was reportedly under way in Los Angeles.\n\nThe Vienna airport scenes were filmed in the UK at Shoreham Airport in West Sussex.\n\n\"Woman in Gold\" grossed $33.3 million in North America and $28.3 million in other territories for a total gross of $61.6 million, against a budget of $11 million.\n\nIn the film's limited release weekend, 3–5 April, it grossed $2.1 million from 258 cinemas. In its wide release weekend, expanding to 1,504 cinemas on 10 April it grossed $5.5 million, finishing 7th at the box office.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film had a rating of 55% based on 146 reviews, with an average rating of 6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Woman in Gold\" benefits from its talented leads, but strong work from Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds isn't enough to overpower a disappointingly dull treatment of a fascinating true story.\" On Metacritic the film has a weighted average score of 51 out of 100, based on 31 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nHelen Mirren received a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role.\n\nAltmann's efforts actually addressed five Klimt paintings owned by her family, including \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I\" and \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II\", as well as three landscapes. The decisions by the US Supreme Court and the Austrian arbitrators covered all five paintings. \n\nFilm critics in Austria and Germany noted various deviations of the film from historical reality. Olga Kronsteiner from the Austrian daily \"Der Standard\" wrote that, contrary to the film, it was not Maria Altmann's lawyer, Randol Schönberg, who researched and initiated the restitution case, but Austrian journalist Hubertus Czernin, who had worked on a number of restitution files at the time, who found the decisive documents and subsequently informed Maria Altmann.\n\nHubertus Czernin, who is depicted in the movie, is suggested to have been motivated by the fact that his father had been a member of the Nazi Party; but Stefan Grissemann from Austrian weekly \"Profil\" pointed out that his father's party membership was not known to Czernin until 2006, long after he had started to work on this and other restitution cases; and that in addition Czernin's father was imprisoned by the Nazis late in the war for high treason.\n\nThomas Trenkler from the Viennese daily \"Kurier\" criticized the film's reference to a time limit for restitution claims in Austria, writing that there has never been such a time limit. He also wrote that his least favorite scene in the film was when Maria Altmann leaves her ailing father in Vienna in 1938. Despite the imminent danger, Maria Altmann stayed in Vienna, having said, \"I would never have left my father! He died of natural causes in July 1938\". Only then did she and her husband escape from Vienna.\n\nIn June 2006, based on an earlier agreement between Altmann and Ronald Lauder (which was shown in the film), Altmann sold \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I\" to Lauder's Neue Galerie in New York for $135 million ($ million today), setting a new mark for most expensive painting (since surpassed). Five months later, Altmann sold the companion \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II\" at auction (bought by Oprah Winfrey) for almost $88 million ($ million today), then the fourth-highest priced painting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44618471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44618471", "title": "Workers' Front (Croatia)", "text": "Workers' Front (Croatia)\n\nWorkers' Front ( or RF) is a far-left political party, formed in May 2014 as a political initiative of workers, trade unionists, unemployed and students in Croatia.\nWorkers' Front aims to become a broad progressive front, dedicated to radical change of political, economic and social relations, while fighting for the rights of working people and all the oppressed.\n\nWorkers' Front is trying to coordinate various \"progressive struggles\" – struggle for workers' rights and economic democracy, anti-capitalism, anti-fascism, struggle for women's and LGBT rights, ecology etc.\n\nWorkers' Front has been compared to Spanish Podemos and Greek SYRIZA by the local and regional media.\n\nOn 3 October 2015 it was announced on the Workers' Front web site that the party has been disbanded after an attempted purge by a prominent member of the party. However, Workers' Front remained an officially registered party and went on with its activities, issuing a statement that its web site was taken over by a group trying to disband the party. Two weeks later this version of events, namely that the party still exists and that the web site was in control of a group of dissidents, was confirmed by a member of the dissident group.\n\nFollowing this episode, Workers' Front participated in an anticlerical protest in Zagreb, tried to place, but was denied a billboard featuring Ivica Todorić (the richest person in Croatia) and successfully registered for 2015 parliamentary election in three electoral districts.\n\nIn the following months, the party helped organize an antifascist demonstration against far-right groups celebrating the Nazi collaborator in Croatia, Ante Pavelić, during a church mass for Pavelić. The protest was assaulted by supporters of the Croatian far-right. Soon after that, Workers' Front staged the first organized cutting of the razor wire planted along the Croatia-Slovenia border, together with Slovenian activists in a cross-border demonstration of solidarity. The action was widely reported by regional media.\n\nOn 1 February 2016 the Workers' Front held a protest against the new government, particularly Minister of Culture Zlatko Hasanbegović, on St. Mark's Square, Zagreb with over 1000 participants.\n\nIn March 2017, Workers' Front announced their coalition with New Left for the upcoming local elections in Split and Zagreb. In Zagreb election Workers' Front ran in coalition with \"Zagreb is Ours\", New Left, Sustainable Development of Croatia and \"For the City\" which won 7.64% votes and 4 seats in the Zagreb City Assembly, one of which belongs to Workers' Front. In Split election, the Workers' Front-New Left coalition won 4.36% of votes, failing to enter the city council.\n\nOn 8 September 2018, the Workers' Front signed a declaration of mutual cooperation with New Left, Sustainable Development of Croatia and the Socialist Labor Party of Croatia in Šibenik, Croatia. The Šibenik Declaration (Croatian: \"Šibenska deklaracija\") contains various criticisms of Croatian society, as well as that of the current capitalist system in general, on which all the signing parties agree on and gather around. The Workers' Front, however, had implemented an article in the document which only it signed as the other parties found it unappealing for their programmes, it reads as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "31831842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31831842", "title": "Zambezi River System Action Plan", "text": "Zambezi River System Action Plan\n\nZambezi River System Action Plan (ZACPLAN) is a multinational plan under the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) to incorporate effective use, and management of the Zambezi River system. ZACPLAN encompasses eight countries: Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. The Zambezi river basin is used by all these South African countries; this plan attempts to manage resources collectively amongst, and between SADCC Nations to reasonably meet national, and international goals for water resources. Due to the immense river basin formed by the Zambezi River together with its tributaries, the Zambezi River System Plan is a culmination of a UN commission, to focus on the projection that the demand for the basins water resources would increase. This competition creates negative utilization, and inefficient use of resources for all these countries in a profitable manner.\n\nEarly negotiations of ZACPLAN started in the early 1980s to come up with goals to prioritize in utilizing the Zambezi River Basin. A listing of goals in the form of category I project, and category II project were devised. Initial discussions relating to the category I and category II projects were initially disagreed upon, as political relations between resources, and countries could not come to an agreements of initial projects.\n"}
{"id": "2215929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215929", "title": "Ć", "text": "Ć\n\nThe grapheme Ć (minuscule: ć), formed from C with the addition of an acute accent, is used in various languages. It usually denotes , the voiceless alveolo-palatal affricate, including in phonetic transcription. Its Unicode codepoints are U+0106 for Ć and U+0107 for ć.\n\nThe symbol originated in the Polish alphabet (where, in its modern usage, it appears most often at the ends of words) and was adopted by Croatian linguist Ljudevit Gaj into Serbo-Croatian in the 19th century. It is the fifth letter of the Polish, Sorbian, and the Latin alphabet of Serbo-Croatian language, as well as its slight variant, the Montenegrin Latin alphabet. It is fourth in the Belarusian Łacinka alphabet.\n\nIt is also adopted by Wymysorys a West-Germanic language spoken in Poland. It is also the fifth letter of the Wymysorys alphabet.\n\nIn Slovenian, it occurs only in loanwords, mainly from Serbo-Croatian (such as the surname Handanović), and denotes the same sound as Č, i.e. the voiceless palato-alveolar affricate.\n\nThe Serbian Cyrillic alphabet equivalent is Ћ (23rd letter). Macedonian uses Ќ as a partial equivalent (24th letter). Other languages which use the Cyrillic alphabet usually represent this sound by the character combination ЧЬ.\n\nSuch letter is also used in unofficial Belarusian Łacinka where it represents soften diphthong \"ts\".\n\n"}
