{"id": "3263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3263", "title": "Acid rain", "text": "Acid rain\n\nAcid rain is a rain or any other form of precipitation that is unusually acidic, meaning that it has elevated levels of hydrogen ions (low pH). It can have harmful effects on plants, aquatic animals and infrastructure. Acid rain is caused by emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, which react with the water molecules in the atmosphere to produce acids. Some governments have made efforts since the 1970s to reduce the release of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide into the atmosphere with positive results. Nitrogen oxides can also be produced naturally by lightning strikes, and sulphur dioxide is produced by volcanic eruptions. Acid rain has been shown to have adverse impacts on forests, freshwaters and soils, killing insect and aquatic life-forms, causing paint to peel, corrosion of steel structures such as bridges, and weathering of stone buildings and statues as well as having impacts on human health.\n\n\"Acid rain\" is a popular term referring to the deposition of a mixture from wet (rain, snow, sleet, fog, cloudwater, and dew) and dry (acidifying particles and gases) acidic components. Distilled water, once carbon dioxide is removed, has a neutral pH of 7. Liquids with a pH less than 7 are acidic, and those with a pH greater than 7 are alkaline. \"Clean\" or unpolluted rain has an acidic pH, but usually no lower than 5.7, because carbon dioxide and water in the air react together to form carbonic acid, a weak acid according to the following reaction:\n\nCarbonic acid then can ionize in water forming low concentrations of carbonate and hydronium ions:\n\nHowever, unpolluted rain can also contain other chemicals which affect its pH (acidity level). A common example is nitric acid produced by electric discharge in the atmosphere such as lightning. Acid deposition as an environmental issue (discussed later in the article) would include additional acids other than .\n\nThe corrosive effect of polluted, acidic city air on limestone and marble was noted in the 17th century by John Evelyn, who remarked upon the poor condition of the Arundel marbles.\nSince the Industrial Revolution, emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere have increased. In 1852, Robert Angus Smith was the first to show the relationship between acid rain and atmospheric pollution in Manchester, England.\n\nThough acidic rain was discovered in 1853, it was not until the late 1960s that scientists began widely observing and studying the phenomenon. The term \"acid rain\" was coined in 1872 by Robert Angus Smith. Canadian Harold Harvey was among the first to research a \"dead\" lake. At first the main focus in research lay on local affects of acid rain. Waldemar Christofer Brøgger was the first to acknowledge long-distance transportation of pollutants crossing borders from the United Kingdom to Norway. Public awareness of acid rain in the U.S increased in the 1970s after The New York Times published reports from the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire of the myriad deleterious environmental effects shown to result from it.\n\nOccasional pH readings in rain and fog water of well below 2.4 have been reported in industrialized areas. Industrial acid rain is a substantial problem in China and Russia and areas downwind from them. These areas all burn sulphur-containing coal to generate heat and electricity.\n\nThe problem of acid rain has not only increased with population and industrial growth, but has become more widespread. The use of tall smokestacks to reduce local pollution has contributed to the spread of acid rain by releasing gases into regional atmospheric circulation. Often deposition occurs a considerable distance downwind of the emissions, with mountainous regions tending to receive the greatest deposition (simply because of their higher rainfall). An example of this effect is the low pH of rain which falls in Scandinavia.\n\nThe earliest report about acid rain in the United States was from the chemical evidence from Hubbard Brook Valley. In 1972, a group of scientists including Gene Likens discovered the rain that was deposited at White Mountains of New Hampshire was acidic. The pH of the sample was measured to be 4.03 at Hubbard Brook. The Hubbard Brook Ecosystem Study followed up with a series of research that analyzed the environmental effects of acid rain. Acid rain that mixed with stream water at Hubbard Brook was neutralized by the alumina from soils. The result of this research indicates the chemical reaction between acid rain and aluminum leads to increasing rate of soil weathering. Experimental research was done to examine the effects of increased acidity in stream on ecological species. In 1980, a group of scientists modified the acidity of Norris Brook, New Hampshire, and observed the change in species’ behaviors. There was a decrease in species diversity, an increase in community dominants, and a decrease in the food web complexity.\n\nIn 1980, the U.S. Congress passed an Acid Deposition Act. This Act established an 18-year assessment and research program under the direction of the National Acidic Precipitation Assessment Program (NAPAP). NAPAP looked at the entire problem from a scientific perspective. It enlarged a network of monitoring sites to determine how acidic the precipitation actually was, and to determine long-term trends, and established a network for dry deposition. It looked at the effects of acid rain and funded research on the effects of acid precipitation on freshwater and terrestrial ecosystems, historical buildings, monuments, and building materials. It also funded extensive studies on atmospheric processes and potential control programs.\n\nFrom the start, policy advocates from all sides attempted to influence NAPAP activities to support their particular policy advocacy efforts, or to disparage those of their opponents. For the U.S. Government's scientific enterprise, a significant impact of NAPAP were lessons learned in the assessment process and in environmental research management to a relatively large group of scientists, program managers and the public.\n\nIn 1981, the National Academy of Sciences was looking into research about the controversial issues regarding acid rain. President Ronald Reagan did not place a huge attention on the issues of acid rain until his personal visit to Canada and confirmed that Canadian border suffered from the drifting pollution from smokestacks in Midwest of US. Reagan honored the agreement to Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau’s enforcement of anti-pollution regulation. In 1982, US President Ronald Reagan commissioned William Nierenberg to serve on the National Science Board. Nierenberg selected scientists including Gene Likens to serve on a panel to draft a report on acid rain. In 1983, the panel of scientists came up with a draft report, which concluded that acid rain is a real problem and solutions should be sought. White House Office of Science and Technology Policy reviewed the draft report and sent Fred Singer’s suggestions of the report, which cast doubt on the cause of acid rain. The panelists revealed rejections against Singer’s positions and submitted the report to Nierenberg in April. In May 1983, the House of Representatives voted against legislations that aimed to control sulphur emissions. There was a debate about whether Nierenberg delayed to release the report. Nierenberg himself denied the saying about his suppression of the report and explained that the withheld of the report after the House's vote was due to the fact that the report was not ready to be published.\n\nIn 1991, the US National Acid Precipitation Assessment Program (NAPAP) provided its first assessment of acid rain in the United States. It reported that 5% of New England Lakes were acidic, with sulfates being the most common problem. They noted that 2% of the lakes could no longer support Brook Trout, and 6% of the lakes were unsuitable for the survival of many species of minnow. Subsequent Reports to Congress have documented chemical changes in soil and freshwater ecosystems, nitrogen saturation, decreases in amounts of nutrients in soil, episodic acidification, regional haze, and damage to historical monuments.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1990, the U.S. Congress passed a series of amendments to the Clean Air Act. Title IV of these amendments established the a cap and trade system designed to control emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Title IV called for a total reduction of about 10 million tons of SO emissions from power plants, close to a 50% reduction. It was implemented in two phases. Phase I began in 1995, and limited sulphur dioxide emissions from 110 of the largest power plants to a combined total of 8.7 million tons of sulphur dioxide. One power plant in New England (Merrimack) was in Phase I. Four other plants (Newington, Mount Tom, Brayton Point, and Salem Harbor) were added under other provisions of the program. Phase II began in 2000, and affects most of the power plants in the country.\n\nDuring the 1990s, research continued. On March 10, 2005, the EPA issued the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR). This rule provides states with a solution to the problem of power plant pollution that drifts from one state to another. CAIR will permanently cap emissions of SO and NO in the eastern United States. When fully implemented, CAIR will reduce SO emissions in 28 eastern states and the District of Columbia by over 70% and NO emissions by over 60% from 2003 levels.\n\nOverall, the program's cap and trade program has been successful in achieving its goals. Since the 1990s, SO emissions have dropped 40%, and according to the Pacific Research Institute, acid rain levels have dropped 65% since 1976. Conventional regulation was used in the European Union, which saw a decrease of over 70% in SO emissions during the same time period.\n\nIn 2007, total SO emissions were 8.9 million tons, achieving the program's long-term goal ahead of the 2010 statutory deadline.\n\nIn 2007 the EPA estimated that by 2010, the overall costs of complying with the program for businesses and consumers would be $1 billion to $2 billion a year, only one fourth of what was originally predicted. Forbes says: \"In 2010, by which time the cap and trade system had been augmented by the George W. Bush administration’s Clean Air Interstate Rule, SO2 emissions had fallen to 5.1 million tons.\"\n\nThe term Citizen science can be traced back as far as January 1989 and a campaign by the Audubon Society to measure Acid rain. Scientist Muki Haklay cites in a policy report for the Wilson Center entitled 'Citizen Science and Policy: A European Perspective' a first use of the term 'citizen science' by R. Kerson in the magazine MIT Technology Review from January 1989. Quoting from the Wilson Center report: \"The new form of engagement in science received the name \"citizen science\". The first recorded example of the use of the term is from 1989, describing how 225 volunteers across the US collected rain samples to assist the Audubon Society in an acid-rain awareness raising campaign. The volunteers collected samples, checked for acidity, and reported back to the organization. The information was then used to demonstrate the full extent of the phenomenon.\"\n\nThe most important gas which leads to acidification is sulphur dioxide. Emissions of nitrogen oxides which are oxidized to form nitric acid are of increasing importance due to stricter controls on emissions of sulphur containing compounds. 70 Tg(S) per year in the form of SO comes from fossil fuel combustion and industry, 2.8 Tg(S) from wildfires and 7–8 Tg(S) per year from volcanoes.\n\nThe principal natural phenomena that contribute acid-producing gases to the atmosphere are emissions from volcanoes. Thus, for example, fumaroles from the Laguna Caliente crater of Poás Volcano create extremely high amounts of acid rain and fog, with acidity as high as a pH of 2, clearing an area of any vegetation and frequently causing irritation to the eyes and lungs of inhabitants in nearby settlements.\nAcid-producing gasses are also created by biological processes that occur on the land, in wetlands, and in the oceans. The major biological source of sulphur containing compounds is dimethyl sulfide.\n\nNitric acid in rainwater is an important source of fixed nitrogen for plant life, and is also produced by electrical activity in the atmosphere such as lightning.\n\nAcidic deposits have been detected in glacial ice thousands of years old in remote parts of the globe.\n\nSoils of coniferous forests are naturally very acidic due to the shedding of needles, and the results of this phenomenon should not be confused with acid rain.\n\nThe principal cause of acid rain is sulphur and nitrogen compounds from human sources, such as electricity generation, factories, and motor vehicles. Electrical power generation using coal is among the greatest contributors to gaseous pollutions that are responsible for acidic rain. The gases can be carried hundreds of kilometers in the atmosphere before they are converted to acids and deposited. In the past, factories had short funnels to let out smoke but this caused many problems locally; thus, factories now have taller smoke funnels. However, dispersal from these taller stacks causes pollutants to be carried farther, causing widespread ecological damage.\n\nCombustion of fuels produces sulphur dioxide and nitric oxides. They are converted into sulphuric acid and nitric acid.\n\nIn the gas phase sulphur dioxide is oxidized by reaction with the hydroxyl radical via an intermolecular reaction:\nwhich is followed by:\nIn the presence of water, sulphur trioxide (SO) is converted rapidly to sulphuric acid:\n\nNitrogen dioxide reacts with OH to form nitric acid:\n\nWhen clouds are present, the loss rate of SO is faster than can be explained by gas phase chemistry alone. This is due to reactions in the liquid water droplets.\n\n\nsulphur dioxide dissolves in water and then, like carbon dioxide, hydrolyses in a series of equilibrium reactions:\n\n\nThere are a large number of aqueous reactions that oxidize sulphur from S(IV) to S(VI), leading to the formation of sulphuric acid. The most important oxidation reactions are with ozone, hydrogen peroxide and oxygen (reactions with oxygen are catalyzed by iron and manganese in the cloud droplets).\n\nWet deposition of acids occurs when any form of precipitation (rain, snow, and so on.) removes acids from the atmosphere and delivers it to the Earth's surface. This can result from the deposition of acids produced in the raindrops (see aqueous phase chemistry above) or by the precipitation removing the acids either in clouds or below clouds. Wet removal of both gases and aerosols are both of importance for wet deposition.\n\nAcid deposition also occurs via dry deposition in the absence of precipitation. This can be responsible for as much as 20 to 60% of total acid deposition. This occurs when particles and gases stick to the ground, plants or other surfaces.\n\nAcid rain has been shown to have adverse impacts on forests, freshwaters and soils, killing insect and aquatic life-forms as well as causing damage to buildings and having impacts on human health.\n\nBoth the lower pH and higher aluminium concentrations in surface water that occur as a result of acid rain can cause damage to fish and other aquatic animals. At pHs lower than 5 most fish eggs will not hatch and lower pHs can kill adult fish. As lakes and rivers become more acidic biodiversity is reduced. Acid rain has eliminated insect life and some fish species, including the brook trout in some lakes, streams, and creeks in geographically sensitive areas, such as the Adirondack Mountains of the United States. However, the extent to which acid rain contributes directly or indirectly via runoff from the catchment to lake and river acidity (i.e., depending on characteristics of the surrounding watershed) is variable. The United States Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) website states: \"Of the lakes and streams surveyed, acid rain caused acidity in 75% of the acidic lakes and about 50% of the acidic streams\". Lakes hosted by silicate basement rocks are more acidic than lakes within limestone or other basement rocks with a carbonate composition (i.e. marble) due to buffering effects by carbonate minerals, even with the same amount of acid rain.\n\nSoil biology and chemistry can be seriously damaged by acid rain. Some microbes are unable to tolerate changes to low pH and are killed. The enzymes of these microbes are denatured (changed in shape so they no longer function) by the acid. The hydronium ions of acid rain also mobilize toxins, such as aluminium, and leach away essential nutrients and minerals such as magnesium.\n\nSoil chemistry can be dramatically changed when base cations, such as calcium and magnesium, are leached by acid rain thereby affecting sensitive species, such as sugar maple (Acer saccharum).\n\nAdverse effects may be indirectly related to acid rain, like the acid's effects on soil (see above) or high concentration of gaseous precursors to acid rain. High altitude forests are especially vulnerable as they are often surrounded by clouds and fog which are more acidic than rain.\n\nOther plants can also be damaged by acid rain, but the effect on food crops is minimized by the application of lime and fertilizers to replace lost nutrients. In cultivated areas, limestone may also be added to increase the ability of the soil to keep the pH stable, but this tactic is largely unusable in the case of wilderness lands. When calcium is leached from the needles of red spruce, these trees become less cold tolerant and exhibit winter injury and even death.\n\nAcid rain has a much less harmful effect on the oceans. However, acid rain can cause the oceans acidity to rise, making it more difficult for different coastal species to create their exoskeletons that they need to survive. These coastal species link together as part of the ocean's food chain and without them being a source for other marine life to feed off of more marine life will die.\n\nCoral's limestone skeletal is sensitive to pH drop, because the calcium carbonate, core component of the limestone dissolves in acidic (low pH) solutions.\n\nAcid rain does not directly affect human health. The acid in the rainwater is too dilute to have direct adverse effects. However, the particulates responsible for acid rain (sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides) do have an adverse effect. Increased amounts of fine particulate matter in the air do contribute to heart and lung problems including asthma and bronchitis.\n\nAcid rain can damage buildings, historic monuments, and statues, especially those made of rocks, such as limestone and marble, that contain large amounts of calcium carbonate. Acids in the rain react with the calcium compounds in the stones to create gypsum, which then flakes off.\n\nThe effects of this are commonly seen on old gravestones, where acid rain can cause the inscriptions to become completely illegible. Acid rain also increases the corrosion rate of metals, in particular iron, steel, copper and bronze.\n\nPlaces significantly impacted by acid rain around the globe include most of eastern Europe from Poland northward into Scandinavia, the eastern third of the United States, and southeastern Canada. Other affected areas include the southeastern coast of China and Taiwan.\n\nMany coal-firing power stations use flue-gas desulphurization (FGD) to remove sulphur-containing gases from their stack gases. For a typical coal-fired power station, FGD will remove 95% or more of the SO in the flue gases. An example of FGD is the wet scrubber which is commonly used. A wet scrubber is basically a reaction tower equipped with a fan that extracts hot smoke stack gases from a power plant into the tower. Lime or limestone in slurry form is also injected into the tower to mix with the stack gases and combine with the sulphur dioxide present. The calcium carbonate of the limestone produces pH-neutral calcium sulfate that is physically removed from the scrubber. That is, the scrubber turns sulphur pollution into industrial sulfates.\n\nIn some areas the sulfates are sold to chemical companies as gypsum when the purity of calcium sulfate is high. In others, they are placed in landfill. However, the effects of acid rain can last for generations, as the effects of pH level change can stimulate the continued leaching of undesirable chemicals into otherwise pristine water sources, killing off vulnerable insect and fish species and blocking efforts to restore native life.\n\nFluidized bed combustion also reduces the amount of sulphur emitted by power production.\n\nVehicle emissions control reduces emissions of nitrogen oxides from motor vehicles.\n\nA number of international treaties on the long-range transport of atmospheric pollutants have been agreed for example, the 1985 Helsinki Protocol on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions under the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution. Canada and the US signed the Air Quality Agreement in 1991. Most European countries and Canada have signed the treaties.\n\nIn this regulatory scheme, every current polluting facility is given or may purchase on an open market an emissions allowance for each unit of a designated pollutant it emits. Operators can then install pollution control equipment, and sell portions of their emissions allowances they no longer need for their own operations, thereby recovering some of the capital cost of their investment in such equipment. The intention is to give operators economic incentives to install pollution controls.\n\nThe first emissions trading market was established in the United States by enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. The overall goal of the Acid Rain Program established by the Act is to achieve significant environmental and public health benefits through reductions in emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO) and nitrogen oxides (NO), the primary causes of acid rain. To achieve this goal at the lowest cost to society, the program employs both regulatory and market based approaches for controlling air pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24692761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24692761", "title": "Baloch of Punjab", "text": "Baloch of Punjab\n\nThe Baloch of Punjab are Baloch people who have settled in the Punjab province of Pakistan. A significant number of Baloch tribes have over time settled in the Punjab. The Baloch of southern Punjab, which adjoins Balochistan, speak Saraiki.\n\nAccording to Dr. Akhtar Baloch, Professor at University of Karachi, the Baloch migrated from Balochistan during the Little Ice Age and settled in Sindh and Punjab. The Little Ice Age is conventionally defined as a period extending from the sixteenth to the nineteenth centuries, or alternatively, from about 1300 to about 1850. According to Professor Baloch, the climate of Balochistan was very cold during this epoch and the region was inhabitable during the winter so the Baloch people migrated in waves and settled in Sindh and Punjab. The Baloch of the Punjab plains are now altogether separated from the Baloch tribes of Balochistan and the Derajat, although the same tribal names are still found among them; some tribes and families still are in contact with the tribes in Balochistan. Due to the extenstive residence in Punjab and the inter-marriage with the local Jat and Rajput Muslims has deprived them of many of their characteristics due to assimilation, and they have now forgotten the Baloch language and have abandoned the Baloch dress. Yet Baloch traditions can be seen in some parts (where Baloch families and tribes reside) of south-Punjab mainly in Dera Ghazi Khan, Muzaffargarh and Rajanpur the baloch tribes are living in southern Punjab are belong to Rind tribe. the largest and oldest tribe of baloch. The famous tribes (Tuman) are Badani, leghari,khosa,buzdar, Bughlani, lund,ahmdani,qasrani, Lashkrani, gadi,nutkani,Gurmani,chengwani,gurchani,Ravani,darishak,mazari,sohrani,gazlani,gabool,dasti,etc.. In Bhakkar, they speak Saraiki as Sandi Baloch, Niwani, Shahani, Lashari etc. but those tribes who migrated to Punjab recently as some tribes like Marri, Bozdar etc. speak both Saraiki and Punjabi. The Hooth and Sandi tribes living in Bhakkar mainly speak Seraiki and they are the main tribes in the region. They mostly speak Seraiki or Punjabi in the south of Punjab, while those in the districts of Faisalabad, Sahiwal, Jhang, Sargodha, Bhakkar and Khushab, Talagang, Chakwal, Islamabad speak Punjabi.Long before Mir Chakar's time, Mir Jalal Khan was one of the Baloch historical rulers, and from his four sons— Rind, Lashar, Hooth and Korai Baloch— spring the five main Baloch tribes. The Jatoi are the children of Jatoi, Jalal Khan's daughter. These main sections are now divided into innumerable septs. The Balochistan region is divided among Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "46835339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46835339", "title": "Budu language (Sino-Tibetan)", "text": "Budu language (Sino-Tibetan)\n\nBudu () is a Southern Loloish language of Yunnan, China. Budu is spoken in Jiangcheng Hani and Yi Autonomous County, Mojiang Hani Autonomous County, Zhenyuan Yi, Hani and Lahu Autonomous County, and Yuanjiang Hani, Yi and Dai Autonomous County.\n\nMany Budu born after c. 1970 are unable to speak the language.\n\n"}
{"id": "23908559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23908559", "title": "Child pornography laws in Japan", "text": "Child pornography laws in Japan\n\nChild pornography laws in Japan prohibit and outlaw child pornography. The production, sale, distribution, and commercialization of child pornography is illegal under Article 7 of the Act on Punishment of Activities Relating to Child Prostitution and Child Pornography, and the Protection of Children and is punishable by a maximum penalty of five years in prison and/or a fine of ¥5,000,000. Possession of child pornography with any intent of distribution and sale is also illegal.\n\nManga artists and anime directors have argued that it is dangerous to try to define child pornography when it comes to artwork, drawings, and animation when regarding hentai due to it being highly ambiguous, and have cited freedom of expression to prevent it from being abused. For example, they argued that even in the anime and manga series \"Doraemon\", the scene of the schoolgirl Shizuka Minamoto taking a bath might be mis-construed as \"child pornography\". Arts depicting underage characters (lolicon and shotacon) and photography of underage models (junior idol) remain controversial in Japan.\n\nThe \"Act on Punishment of Activities Relating to Child Prostitution and Child Pornography, and the Protection of Children\" came into effect on May 26, 1999. Under Article 7, it outlawed the production, transport, import and export of child pornography, as well as possession of child pornography for the aforementioned purposes.\n\nPreviously, obscenity was regulated by the 1907 Penal Code of Japan. Article 175 of the code has been applied to underage obscenity, notably in a 1993 case where a \"burusera\" shop owner was arrested on suspicion of possession for sale of obscene media, after he had invited a high school student to appear in a pornographic video.\n\nThe penalty for possession with any intent of commercialization, sales, or distribution is a maximum imprisonment with labor for three years or a fine of three million yen (approximately $39,000). Production or distribution of child pornography is punishable by imprisonment with labor for up to five years and a fine of up to five million yen (approximately $50,000). Article 34 of the Child Welfare Act, applicable since 1947, states that \"\"No person shall commit an act listed in any of the following items:\" with line six specifying \"Cause a child to commit an obscene act\"\".\n\nHowever, there were no laws addressing the simple possession of any kind of pornography in general (which included child pornography, with no intent to sale or distribute). On 4 June 2014, a bill was approved to be passed to ban the possession, closing this loophole in the nation's child pornography prohibition law, although it did not apply to hentai in anime and manga in order to prevent abuse of the law. The bill passed on 18 June.\n\nIn June 2008, a bill proposing a ban on child pornography possession was submitted to the House of Representatives of Japan, where it was brought before the Diet in September, but failed to pass. The Liberal Democratic Party and the New Komeito Party proposed to outlaw any possession of child pornography, but was countered by the Democratic Party of Japan with a different proposal. The House of Representatives dissolved on July 21, 2009, and both proposals to revise the law were withdrawn. During the general election of the House of Representatives in August 2009, open letters written by politicians to a civilian organization showed that the politicians were divided on the matter.\n\nIn 2008, the Japanese branch of UNICEF called on the government to outlaw simple possession of child pornography, as well as manga and anime pornography depicting minors. It also called for tighter restrictions of Junior idol media under existing laws. The United States ambassador to Japan has stated that Japan's lack of laws restricting possession of child pornography has impeded international investigations into child pornography.\n\nOn August 25, 2011, the Liberal Democratic Party submitted a petition requesting stricter laws on child pornography, which included child pornography in anime. In late June 2013, the Liberal Democratic Party moved forward with their proposal. A decision has not yet been reached.\n\nA 2007 public opinion poll taken by the Japanese government showed that 86.5% of respondents believed that child pornography regulations should be applied to anime and manga, while 90.9% endorsed regulations of \"harmful materials\" on the Internet.\n\nWhile not considered explicitly pornographic, media portraying young idols is a large industry in Japan. Photobooks and videos of underage models in scant, tight fitting and revealing clothing are often taken to be provocative and pornographic in nature. The industry remains lucrative, with \"The Japan Times\" reporting an estimated 3 million idol photobooks sold between 2006 and 2007. However, child modeling in Japan is not seen in the same light as in the West, as many models are eventually offered acting, singing, or promotional careers.\n\nStudios producing junior idol media are not exempt from current laws. After 2007, staff and heads of various video production firms were arrested on allegations that their productions overstepped legal boundaries.\n\nIn Japan, \"lolicon\" is a broadly defined term that describes an \"attraction to underage girls\" by males and/or females, whether young or old. It can also apply to older characters with youthful neotenic features that make them appear to be younger than they really are, and refers to a hentai subgenre in dojinshi, manga, anime, and video games in which childlike characters are usually depicted in a ero kawaii (erotic cute) manner, which can range from explicitly pornographic to mildly suggestive, romantic and entirely non-sexual. The young boys equivalent is called \"shotacon\". Outside Japan, the term has been narrowed to describe the hentai subgenre, usually involving simulated pornography.\n\nFigures regarding the prevalence of \"lolicon\" and \"shotacon\" are hard to come by, but it is estimated that 30-40% of manga contain sexual references involving underage characters. The age of consent in Japan is 13, but is generally higher under prefectural laws. No regulations are in place to control images portraying sexual content of hentai in manga or anime.\n\nSupporters of regulating simulated pornography claim to advocate human rights and children's rights such as the \"Convention on the Rights of the Child\". Opponents such as the also claim to advocate for the rights of children, pointing out the decreasing numbers in sexually motivated crimes are due to simulated materials providing an outlet to those who would otherwise seek material depicting actual children.\n\nThe constitutionality of proposed laws have been discussed, since Article 21 of the Constitution of Japan guarantees freedom of speech, press and all other forms of expression. The definitions of \"obscenity\", specifically written in law as \"arouses or stimulates the viewer's sexual desire\", have been argued as ambiguous.\n\n"}
{"id": "36479053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36479053", "title": "Chitrali cuisine", "text": "Chitrali cuisine\n\nChitrali cuisine () refers to the food and cuisine of the Chitrali people from the North-Western region of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan and the bordering Nooristan province in Afghanistan. Chitrali food has a regional variance in contrast to many other cuisines of Pakistan. The food of Chitral is very similar to the cuisine in neighboring Gilgit-Baltistan.\n\nPilaf usually of beef which is preboiled until it is extremely tender is an essential dish at large gatherings and the meat is served lying on top of the rice. Salty buttered tea is popular in Chitral as is green tea and very bitter black tea called Troq Chai. Honey, cheese and fresh fruits also make up a staple part of the Chitrali diet as these products are part of the local mountain agricultural tradition. The influence of Peshawar and Punjab is seen in the popularity of lamb and chicken karahi. Uzbek dumplings or mantu are also very popular. Dried apricots \"chambor\" and mulberries \"kitori\" are both an important part of the local diet and are also exported to other parts of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Arab states of the Persian Gulf.\n\nTikki A thick leavened loaf baked over coals in a special mold. Because of its hard crust it can be stored for weeks. It is popularly eaten at breakfast or in the afternoon.\n\nKhesta A bread made from a liquid batter which has been allowed to ferment and is cooked on a griddle. It has a slightly sour taste and a spongy texture.\n\nPhulka The standard South Asian Chapatti.\n\nRishiki Thin pancakes or crepes made of a batter consisting of whole wheat flour, water and eggs. They can be either savoury or sweet. Sweet rishiki is served with honey and cottage cheese.\n\nRondijhzu Barbecued or spit roasted goat or lamb seasoned with only salt.\n\nTaaw Kahak Chicken which is roasted on a griddle with additional pressure applied, usually by placing a rock or heavy pot over it. Very dry and crispy.\n\nTaaw Machhi Fish cooked in the same pressure grilling method as taaw kahak, especially brown trout, rainbow trout and schizothorax.\n\nOne of the most important elements in Chitrali cuisine is the importance of soups, usually eaten as the main dish accompanied by bread and fruit. The cold climate of Chitral is one of the factors contributing to the popularity of soups in Chitrali cuisine.\n\nKalli A noodle soup made with minced beef and hand cut whole wheat noodles. It is very similar to the Central Asian laghman and is probably of Chinese origin.\n\nLeganu Made with tiny lentil-flour dumplings and unlike most Chitrali cuisine it is often quite spicy.\n\nLajhaik Similar to the Kashmiri hareesa, it is a thick soup of whole wheat and barley grains slowly stewed together with lamb, beef or duck.\n\nKhhamalogh A soup consisting of the skulls of sheep, goats or cattle crushed and slowly simmered for many hours.\n\nKawirogh A light soup made with dried wild capers and meat. Very popular in the summer as it is supposed to have a cooling and blood thinning affect.\n\nGhalmandi A dish of layered flat breads with a filling of cottage cheese, coriander and chives and covered in melted butter and walnut oil.\nCheer Aa Shapik Similar to ghalmandi, but with a white sauce, similar to bechamel replacing the cottage cheese.\n\nQalaibat A dish made by cooking whole wheat flour with lamb fat.\n\nShroshrp A type of unsweetened halwa made from germinated wheat grain flour.\n\nPushur Tikki A loaf of tikki bread baked with a mince meat filling, a type of meat pie. \nOther variations include\nPhhenak Tikki which is filled with cottage cheese and Pandir Tikki filled with matured cheese. \nA vegetarian version with a spinach filling is Shaakh Mujhzi.\n"}
{"id": "37675500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37675500", "title": "Crime in Thailand", "text": "Crime in Thailand\n\nOfficial corruption is rampant in Thailand. It ranges from bribery to outright police collusion. The interplay of drugs, prostitution, political paralysis, corruption and collusion, a culture of impunity, international tourism and trade, traditional Buddhist tolerance and tendency to ignore problems has led to an increasingly multifaceted and complex crime epidemic in the country. Juvenile delinquency has also been increasing in recent years.\n\nIn November 2015, the \"New York Times\" reported that in the fiscal year ending September 2015, the national police have seen a surge in thefts, burglaries, and robberies, more than 75,557 thefts and other property crimes in the fiscal year, 10.5 percent higher than the previous year. Violent crime was up 8.6 percent during the same period. These figures have been contested by the police and by Amorn Wanichwiwatana, a criminologist at Chulalongkorn University, who said he was not aware of any significant uptick in crime since the military came to power. \"I don’t think that’s the case. It's not possible,\" he said of the 60 percent increase reported by the \"Times\". Crime statistics from the Royal Thai Police (RTP) show a statistically negligible increase of 1.9 percent over the same period, with 920 additional crimes reported after an overall decline since 2009.\n\nAugmenting the crime prevention efforts of the RTP, there are an estimated 3,000-4,000 security companies in Thailand, deploying between 400,000-500,000 security guards nationwide.\n\nMuch of Thailand's crime is in urban areas where tourists congregate as they are easy targets, as well as where rampant prostitution and human trafficking feeds their vices. The prime areas of drug abuse are Bangkok, Phuket, and Pattaya, but not limited to these areas. The prime transit corridor for drugs entering northern Thailand is from the Golden Triangle, as well as from ethnically divided rebel-controlled areas within the fragmented state of Myanmar, especially Shan State. Thailand's international ports, like Laem Chabang near Pattaya, and Suvarnabhumi International Airport, have seen a number of African and former Commonwealth of Independent States gangs, as well as other transnational gangs and drug mules involved in the trade.\n\nThailand has a growing problem of drugs and the violence associated with it. The drugs involved range from the traditional, kratom, to ya ba, opium from Myanmar, and local herbal medicines.\n\nA previous attempt to control the drug trade by declaring the 2003 War on Drugs, was met with allegations of Thaksin-allied, politically-inspired targeted killings, quotas of dead drug traffickers, and the targeting of innocent victims.\n\nMethampetamines are so widely abused that animals, such as gibbons, slow lorises, and elephants are force-fed stimulants to make them work longer hours, sedated to allow petting and entertain tourists.\n\nIn May 2012, it was discovered that nearly 50 million legal pseudoephedrine tablets had been stolen from Thai hospitals. Two billion more tablets were smuggled in from Taiwan and South Korea, with forged documents showing two Thai companies importing some eight billion more. They had reported the drugs to be imports of electronics and automobile parts. Thailand responded by close monitoring of the sale and distribution of pseudoephedrine.\n\nDruggings of tourists and locals alike by sex workers and thieves are an infrequent, but not uncommon, occurrence in major tourist centers like Pattaya or Phuket.\n\nA United Nations report on the situation in Thailand states, \"Many of those now incarcerated in Thailand's prisons are likely to be low-level traders and drug users, as they are more easy targets for police, rather than large scale traffickers and organised criminals\".\n\nAnimal abuse in Thailand is widespread, including elephants tortured for tourism, killing elephants for their tusks, smuggling them from Myanmar, exploiting elephants in cities, and trading in animal parts.\n\nIn 2013, some 87 women came forward daily to report sexual abuse or to seek counseling as a result of sexual abuse in Thailand, with most offenders known to the victim. Police refused to accept many complaints, giving excuses such as \"political unrest\". The youngest victim was aged one year and nine months and eldest was 85. The youngest offender was a 10-year-old boy who took part in a gang-rape and the eldest was an 85-year-old man who molested a young girl.\n\nThailand as a major tourist destination is infamous for scams and touts. Among the most famous and lucrative are the gem scam, Thai tailor scam, and fake travel agents and Thai zig zag scam.\n\nThe boiler room scam (a fake stock trading scam) is perhaps the most publicized white collar crime in Thailand.\n\nStateless persons are targeted with fake UN working rights cards.\n\nSerious passport and identification forgery caught the attention of US authorities after the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. Some 259 stolen visa labels had disappeared from a Thai consulate in Malaysia in August 2013. They were used to cross the Thai border illegally. Thirty-five Iranians, one Cameroonian, 20 Nigerians, four Pakistanis, four Indians, and others from Asia made the crossing.\n\nIn 2013, the US State Department stated that Thailand faced the lowest rank (e.g. failing) in its Trafficking In Persons Report. The 2013 report stated that Thai police and immigration officials \"extorted money or sex\" from detainees or \"sold Burmese migrants unable to pay labor brokers or sex traffickers,\". According to officials from the International Labour Organization (ILO), Thailand was the only government to vote against the United Nations Forced Labour Convention at the ILO's annual ministerial conference in June 2014.\n\nIn response, Walmart and Costco retail chains in USA have dumped Charoen Pokphand as a supplier of seafood products due to suppliers that \"own, operate or buy from fishing boats manned with slaves.\" The Thai government on 15 June 2014 caved to international pressure and explained its intention to rescind its previous ILO vote.\n\nViolence against women and children has been rising in Thailand. In 2006, 13,550 cases of domestic violence against women and children were reported by Thailand's Ministry of Public Health. Between 2007 and 2015 the total number of violence victims seeking assistance at the One-Stop Crisis Centre of the Public Health Ministry totalled 207,891. Of those, 105,622 involved children those involving women amounted to 102,269. In 2016, the number of distressed women and children seeking assistance from the centre was 20,018, according to the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB).\n\nThailand has been described as a \"haven\" for criminals on the run from the law in their homelands. Further, foreign criminal gangs have adopted Thailand as a base of operations. A 2014 study by the Thailand Institute of Justice identified 22 separate gangs of foreigners involved in identity fraud, petty theft, and burglary. Thailand's economic reliance on tourism means that it is all too easy for foreign criminals to enter the country. Bribery is frequently used to cement friendly relations with local officials, particularly the police. Their palms greased, police and immigration officials ignore wrongdoing. \"Thailand has traditionally been one of the top source countries for extradition of criminals to the U.S.,\" said a March 2009 cable from the American Embassy in Bangkok obtained by WikiLeaks. \"There are a number of minor reasons and one very major one why the jet-setting underground would find Thailand irresistible,\" according to Thailand-based British author Mr. John Burdett. \"The minor ones would include guns, girls, gambling, ganja and gorgeous beaches, especially for those recently released from confinement.\" But, he said, what makes Thailand especially attractive, \"is the ...compliant and bribable police force.\"\n\nAbout one in ten people in Thailand legally own a gun. There are more than six million registered guns in a country with a population of 66.7 million. Small Arms Survey estimates that the total number of guns, both licit and illicit, held by Thai civilians in 2017 is 10,300,000, equating to 15.1 firearms per 100 inhabitants. Comparable figures for the other ASEAN nations are: Cambodia, 4.5 per 100 inhabitants; Philippines, 3.6; Laos, 3.0; Myanmar, 1.6; Vietnam, 1.6; Brunei, 1.4; Malaysia, 0.7; Singapore, 0.3; and Indonesia, zero.\n\nOwnership of firearms is particularly high in the south Thailand provinces of Pattani, Yala, and Narathiwat that have witnessed significant insurgency and rebellion since 2004.\n\nIn 2016 Thailand's rate of violent gun-related deaths stood at 4.45 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. In comparison, that of the Philippines was 7.42; the US, 3.85; Cambodia, 0.96; Myanmar, 0.56; Malaysia, 0.46; Indonesia, 0.10; and Singapore, 0.03.\n\nTechnical colleges for years have seen rival gang shootings at major intersections in Bangkok and elsewhere, and tends to be an urban phenomenon. In one famous case, one such shootout began in response to Gangnam style faceoff. One technical school student is quoted as saying, \"Guns are like school supplies. On our campus, we might use a gun to protect ourselves from violent, unruly seniors. Outside, we have rival schools...\"\n\nJuvenile delinquency from 2003 to 2007 exploded, increasing some 70 percent, with both genders reporting large increases, despite the country moving up world economic rankings.\n\nThailand has woefully inadequate prison infrastructure, as well as a lack of political will to deal with the exploding crime problem. In Rayong Central Prison, which was designed to house 3,000 inmates but holds 6,000, improvised rocket canisters were used to relay goods from the outside world over the top of walls into the prison. Mail sent to prisoners contained items such as mobile phones used to coordinate and organize crime outside of the prison. This situation is not unique to Rayong Prison, and is commonplace throughout Thailand.\n\nCorrupt prison officials add to the issues of dealing with escalating crime. In one case, a prison nurse was caught dealing drugs. In a sting operation some 28 prison wardens were found to be smuggling drugs. Authorities are so corrupt or incompetent that females were found in one male cell feeding five babies. Thai authorities have responded by installing mobile phone jamming equipment, but these jammers has been proven to offer a false sense of security, as a wall crack was used to store phones where the jammers could not penetrate. Other initiatives include x-ray scanners, and installing CCTV equipment. A new super-max prison is in the planning stages.\n\nCrime has infiltrated all components of Thai society, including Buddhist institutions. The monastic life offers a veil of legitimacy to criminal organizations. There have been a number of monks in a string of cases in recent years caught with methamphetamines, selling drugs, prostitutes, pornography, and guns, including senior monks.\n\nOne case involved two monks attempting to ditch speed pills at a police checkpoint. Another case involved a senior monk who claimed he needed money to \"refurbish his temple\", yet used the money for drugs and sex. Murder by clergy has been reported increasingly. There was even a case of Thai monks killing each other in the United States.\nIn addition, sexual assaults committed by Thai monks are not uncommon. There is widespread sexual assault of male novices in temples, and of \"mae chi\" (Buddhist nuns) and lay women.\n\nA number of high-profile Westerners have died in Bangkok hotels including Hollywood actor David Carradine, The director of Tata Motors, Karl Slym, (British), and American businesswoman Wendy Albano. Although there have been crimes, Thai authorities have also had success in apprehending suspects such as in the case of two murdered backpackers and with the Albano murder.\n\nDavid Miller and Hannah Witheridge, a backpacking couple from England, were murdered on the island of Ko Tao in 2014. In December 2015 the suspected killers were found guilty. They face execution by lethal injection.\n\nIn 2013 an American expat was chopped to death by a Bangkok cabbie with a sword. Murders are frequent enough that one writer produced a book called \"How Not To Get Murdered In Thailand\" The author mentions the case of the murdered American Troy Pilkington and noted the contrasting dangers of both taxi cabs and public transportation. One of the issues with cabbies is their alleged drug use and abuse at the hands of Chinese organized crime network which often charge them high fee to operate in the city. The cabbies are typically poor farmers trying to earn money for their rural families. Whatever the reasons for their demise, indeed many of the deaths are confusing or have unclear causes, Thailand has remained popular for adventures. One young Brit, Christina Annesley, was found dead on Thai's Ko Tao. Musicians at a Thailand bar stabbed an American businessman to death in front of his son, there to celebrate his birthday with his family. Thai police arrested three musicians for the crime.\n\nThe Thai government has worked with other countries to manage crime and, for example, has a prisoner exchange agreement with Australia. In the case of Wendy Albano, India, Thailand, and the United States all worked together to find the primary suspect hiding in India. In that case that the help then U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and a U.S. senator was involved. This was in part due to difficulty in apprehending a suspect, that had fled to a different country (and thus out of the jurisdiction of a single country).\n\nWendy Albano was an American businesswoman murdered in 2012 in a hotel room in Thailand. Authorities in the U.S. got in touch with the U.S. State department eventually leading to the arrest of a suspect hiding in India years later. The chief suspect was an Indian business associate who fled to India after her death. One of the key pieces of evidence that made him a suspect was their known business relationship and video surveillance from the hotel. U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson asked then secretary of State Hillary Clinton to help with the case. Senator Nelson took steps to help India and Thailand work together to solve the crime. The case made headlines in the United States and India, especially due to the involvement of a U.S. Senator and request for help from then Secretary of State Clinton.\n\nThis is the case where foreigners commit crimes against other foreigners in Thailand, in Albano's case the chief suspect was an Indian man who fled Thailand but was eventually captured in India with the help of the Indian law enforcement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43120569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43120569", "title": "Czech immigration to Mexico", "text": "Czech immigration to Mexico\n\nCzech Mexicans () are citizens of Mexico who are of Czech descent. Czechs originate from the Czech lands, a term which refers to the majority of the traditional lands of the Bohemian Crown, namely Bohemia, Moravia and Czech Silesia. These lands of have been governed by a variety of states, including the Kingdom of Bohemia, a crown land of the Austrian Empire, the Czechoslovak Republic, and, now, the Czech Republic.\n\nDuring the colonial era, several Bohemian Jesuit missionaries were involved in the evangelization of Mexico.\n\nThe Czech community in Mexico has been a discrete community, most of them arrived to the country as refugees escaping from World Wars. The Czech community of Mexico City frequently meets for celebrations at the statue of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk located on Avenida Presidente Masaryk.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53755984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53755984", "title": "Daniel Hennessey (ring announcer)", "text": "Daniel Hennessey (ring announcer)\n\nDaniel Hennessey (born 15 January 1968, Fall River, Massachusetts, United States) also known as Lt Dan, is a New Zealand ring announcer for boxing, kickboxing and other combat sports. He is known for his catchphrase, \"Would Somebody, Somewhere, Make Some Noise!\".\n\nHennessey attended Worcester State College. After college he joined the United States Marine Corps in 1991, being in operations DesertShield/Storm. Earlier, while a member of the U.S. Marine Reserves he had participated in a major Christmas Season 1989 fundraiser for the Vietnam Veterans Association of Cape Cod ( also known as The Nam Vets of Cape Cod) by standing at attention for 24-straight hours outside Hyannis radio station WPXC-FM. During the promotion he was only permitted a 5-minute break every two hours. It raised several thousand dollars for the worthy organization and made Hennessey a regular \"honorary member\" of the WPXC airstaff for several years to come. He went on to serve in the first Persian Gulf War. He left the Marine Corp in 1993 and moved to New Zealand in 1998 to be a Club DJ. In the DJ scene he was well known for his stage name as DJ Danimal. During his DJ time, he was on Radio Hauraki and Max TV between 2000 and 2002.\n\nHennessey started working at Sky TV in New Zealand in 2003 as a commentator, mainly focusing on basketball for the NZNBL. The biggest accomplishment of his commentating career was head commentating for the FIBA Under 19's world champ in 2012. Hennessey finished with the doing stats for the Breakers in their 2016 season.\n\nHennessey started ring announcing at a kickboxing show called Kings of Oceania. He made a big break in his career by announcing the 2006 World Grand Prix K1. A few years later, he announced the event that will defined his career where he announced Duco Events David Tua vs Shane Cameron in 2009, which at the time the biggest PPV buy in New Zealand History. Hennessey went on to announce David Tua's last four fights of his career. Hennessey became the main announcer for Duco Event's, King in the Ring, most of Joseph Parker boxing bouts and Joseph Parker vs. Andy Ruiz. Hennessey announced Parker's first World title defense and the non televised bouts of Manny Pacquiao vs. Jeff Horn.\n\nHennessey also announces local events including Benjamin Thomas Watt only boxing event, Sam Rapira New Plymouth, Lance Bryant in Manawatu and many more boxing events. His first world title he announced was Kali Reis vs Maricela Cornejo for the WBC World female middleweight title in April 2016 at The Trusts Arena.\n\n"}
{"id": "18950672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950672", "title": "Demographics of Brunei", "text": "Demographics of Brunei\n\nThe demographic features of Brunei include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Like neighbouring countries, Brunei is a Malay-dominated country. Many cultural and linguistic differences make Brunei Malays distinct from the larger Malay populations in nearby Malaysia and Indonesia, even though they are ethnically related and share the Muslim religion.\n\nBrunei has a hereditary nobility with the title Pengiran these are, more often than not, related to the Sultan by blood. The Sultan can award to commoners the title Pehin, the equivalent of a life peerage awarded in the United Kingdom. The Sultan also can award his subjects the Dato, the equivalent of a knighthood in the United Kingdom, and Datin, the equivalent of a damehood.\n\nBruneians adhere to the practice of using complete full names with all titles, including the title Haji (for men) or Hajjah (for women) for those who have made the Haj pilgrimage to Mecca. Many Brunei Malay women wear the tudong, a traditional head covering. Men wear the songkok, a traditional Malay cap. Men who have completed the Haj wear a white songkok.\n\nThe requirements to attain Brunei citizenship include passing tests in Malay culture, customs and language. Stateless permanent residents of Brunei are given International Certificates of Identity, which allow them to travel overseas. The majority of Brunei's Chinese are permanent residents, and many are stateless.\n\nPetroleum wealth allows the Brunei Government to provide the population with one of Asia's finest health care systems. The Brunei Medical and Health Department introduced the region's first government \"flying doctor service\" in early 1965. Malaria has been eradicated, and cholera is virtually nonexistent. There are three general hospitals--in Bandar Seri Begawan, Tutong, and Kuala Belait--and there are numerous health clinics throughout the country.\n\nEducation starts with preschool, followed by 6 years of primary education and up to 6 years of secondary education. Nine years of education are mandatory. Most of Brunei's college students attend universities and other institutions abroad, but approximately 2,542 study at the University of Brunei Darussalam. Opened in 1985, the university has a faculty of over 300 instructors and is located on a sprawling campus at Tungku, overlooking the South China Sea.\n\nThe official language is Malay, but English is widely understood and used in business. Other languages spoken are several Chinese dialects, Iban, and a number of native dialects. Islam is the official religion, but religious freedom is guaranteed under the constitution.\n\n ( est.)\n\nStructure of the population (20.06.2011) (Census) :\n\n"}
{"id": "4708741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708741", "title": "Dilling people", "text": "Dilling people\n\nThe Dilling are an ethnic group of the Nuba peoples. The Dilling number several thousand and live mainly in the Nuba Mountains of South Kordofan state, in southern Sudan. \n\nThe Dilling language is one of the Nubian languages of the Nilo-Saharan family. The Dilling language has become partially arabized. \n\n \n"}
{"id": "25458058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25458058", "title": "Emigration from Mexico", "text": "Emigration from Mexico\n\nEmigration from Mexico is a migratory phenomenon that has been taking place in Mexico since the early 20th century.\n\nEmigration from Mexico began timidly about a century ago, but experienced a significant increase since the 1960s. The emigration phenomenon, in the case of Mexico is diverse and varied through the country. This is due to the economic situation that applies mainly to poorer people, who seek better job opportunities in other countries. More than 11% of Mexico’s native population lives abroad, making it the country with the most emigrants in the world. 98% of all Mexican emigrants reside in the United States, which are more than 12 million (documented and undocumented) migrants. Estimates on the amount of Mexican emigrants of indigenous origin in the U.S. range between 50% and 90% of the entire emigrant population. There are no official numbers on the amount of indigenous Mexican migrants, as U.S. censuses do not cover their specific ethnic origin. Recent reports by the Pew Research Center (February 2012) show that the current migratory influx from Mexico to the U.S. is just below a net zero, as more Mexicans leave the U.S. Economic problems are, overall, the little stability of Mexican peso exchange rate compared to the United States dollar. That is the reason for many Mexicans to leave their country and look for better salaries in the United States, so they can send dollars to their families in Mexico. This case, however, is mainly temporary. Many others chose to permanently reside there with their families.\n\nAside from the United States, Mexican immigrants have settled in Canada, Spain, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, France, Japan and other countries. A large Mexican immigrant population also exists in Central and South American countries as Guatemala, Costa Rica, Cuba, Brazil, Colombia and Chile. Mexican Mennonites settled in Bolivia, Argentina and Paraguay. There have been cases of Mexicans working and residing in Ukraine and Saudi Arabia where they are employed as construction and oil labor contractors. Under \"Aliyah\", or the immigration of Jews of the Diaspora to Israel, an unspecified number of Mexican Jews have immigrated to Israel. In recent years Mexican business and enigineering professionals have settled in African countries like Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa. \nCanada has a program that hires Mexican agricultural workers on a temporary basis. Many countries allow Mexicans opportunities in areas like science research, to study at colleges and universities, and through other cultural exchanges. The mass departure of artists, scientists, actors and more has led to a Mexican brain drain. However, recent years have shown an uptick in immigration to Mexico.\n\nGenerally, the people who tend to leave Mexico to the United States are from lower-class backgrounds and of mestizo or indigenous ancestries. They primarily come from the following nine states: Zacatecas, Guanajuato, Michoacán, Oaxaca, Guerrero, San Luis Potosí, Hidalgo, Chiapas and Sinaloa. In these states it is not uncommon to see towns where men are absent, and are supposed to be working in the United States. While the women take care of their children, husbands send money (dollars) to their families in Mexico. This money, sent by Mexican workers abroad to their country, is called \"remesas\" in Spanish, and the amount of it have become the second income that Mexico receives from other countries. The first one is oil sales.\n\nOn the other hand, people from the educated middle-upper class, are usually criollo or other Mexicans of European descent and some of castizo descent, they emigrate to the United States, but also many emigrate to Canada and European countries; they're usually employed by companies, universities, or many of them start their own businesses abroad.\n\nTraditionally, richer people with overwhelming income used to live in Mexico, but recent economic opportunities and advantages with international treaties, harassing, and threatening insecurity have made them leave the country.\n\nFollowing the Mexican–American War which was concluded by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848, and later, the Gadsden Purchase in 1853, approximately 300,000 Mexican nationals found themselves living within the United States. Throughout the rest of the 19th century early 20th century, Mexican migration was not subject to any restrictions, and Mexicans were free to move across the border, and often did so, typically in order for them to work in professions such as the construction of the railway system, or as seasonal agricultural laborers. From 1910 to 1920, the political violence and societal chaos caused by the Mexican Revolution also played a role in increasing migration northwards. Economic inequality, rural poverty, significantly lower wages, and better opportunities have also played a role throughout the 20th century as factors pulling Mexicans to migrate to the US.\n\nThe immigration laws of the United States such as Emergency Quota Act generally allowed exemptions for Mexico, while being more restrictive to citizens of the Eastern Hemisphere. Mexicans received special allowances under United States immigration law due to the importance of Mexican labor in the United States economy. One example of these allowances is the Immigration Act of 1917. Under this act, all potential immigrants would have to pass a literacy test and pay a head tax. At the request of growers in the southwest who depended on farm labor from Mexico, the Secretary of Labor waived those requirements for Mexican immigrants. The groups interested in the availability of inexpensive labor ensured that the immigration laws in place throughout the early 20th century did not adversely affect the movement of Mexican migrants, in spite of calls on the part of some of the southern states’ congressmen to put an end to the open border policies.\n\nThe economic crisis of 1929 brought an abrupt end to the special allowances that had been allowed for Mexican immigrants. With the beginning of the Great Depression, the worldwide economic slowdown and the desperate search for jobs within the United States of America, anti-immigration sentiment rose. Thousands of Mexicans were forced back across the border and barriers to future immigrants were constructed. From 1929 to 1931, legal Mexican immigration entries fell by 95%, and in the next ten years as many as 400,000 Mexican citizens were repatriated.\n\nThe limitations on Mexican immigration lasted until the beginning of World War II, when the United States found itself short of labor. In 1942 the United States and Mexico instituted the Bracero program. Under this arrangement, millions of Mexican laborers were contracted to complete agricultural work in the United States. While under contract they were given housing and received a minimum wage of thirty cents an hour. The program was intended to provide the United States with \"temporary\" workers while many working-aged men were away at war. In order to ensure that braceros did not stay in the United States, their wives and families were not allowed to accompany them in the U.S. Additionally, 10% of each worker’s wage was withheld to be given back upon the worker’s return to Mexico but few U.S. employers complied.\n\nThe Bracero Program allowed agribusiness access to a large pool of labor that had virtually no civil rights, and no recourse to address growing injustices. This inequity was seen in poor working conditions and the decrease in agricultural wages, which during the 1950s, actually dropped below the levels they were at during World War II. As the war ended, few returning soldiers returned to the jobs that the braceros were holding, and instead, they moved on to more industrial areas and reinforced the belief that immigrants take on the jobs that Americans would not be willing to do.\n\nThe Mexican government's participation and oversight of the treatment of their workers in this program declined over the years, despite remittances from the program that made up a large part of its domestic economy. The United States began encouraging braceros to cross into Mexico then return illegally to the United States. Upon return they could become legal citizens, and this eliminated any program contracts as well as the ability of the Mexican government to intervene in any future labor relations. In addition to this practice of creating legal citizens of former braceros, thousands of illegal immigrants were crossing the border in search of the opportunity promised by the idea of steady employment and eventual prosperity of the Bracero Program.\n\nIn response to the growing number of Mexicans entering illegally, the United States government implemented Operation Wetback in 1954. Under the direction of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), the Border Patrol began deporting Mexicans who were in the United States illegally, and up to one million Mexicans were deported. Operation Wetback ended not long after its launch, due to the complaints regarding the violence involved in the deportations, and the fact that in many cases children of immigrants who were United States citizens were deported with their parents.\n\nAlthough the Bracero Program ended in 1964, the migration of Mexican workers did not. The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 which had put limits on the total number of visas granted, was amended in 1965 following the termination of the Bracero Program. These amendments put an end to the quota system, and instead, created a total number of visas allowed to the Western Hemisphere. Exceptions to that total number were granted to spouses, minors and parents of United States citizens. However, the total allotment of 120,000 in 1965 still was not enough to address the demand for visas from Mexico. By 1976, there was a two-year waiting period for any eligible applicant from the Western Hemisphere before they could receive a visa.\n\nA contributing factor to the persistently high numbers of migrants from Mexico was the creation of the Border Industrialization Program in 1965. The termination of the Bracero Program in 1964 had led to both a shortage of workers willing to work for lower wages in the United States, and a high population of displaced workers at the northern Mexico border. The result of this imbalance in the supply and demand of labor in the two countries in turn led the creation of this new agreement that allowed the construction of foreign-owned factories in northern Mexico. These factories are referred to as maquiladoras or maquilas, and provided both Mexico and the United States with a number of benefits. The factories provided Mexico with a way to increase its manufactured exports to the United States, and in return, the United States received tax benefits for placing its factories within Mexico. For example, the equipment imported into Mexico to be used in the factories was not subject to import taxes, and the final product was only taxed on the value that was added at the factory, rather than the entirety of the item.\n\nThe creation of the maquilas program provided jobs to the displaced Bracero Program workers and allowed the United States to continue to use labor from Mexico, which was less expensive than labor in the United States. The popularity of this program is evident in the incredible increase in the number of maquilas in operation: in 1967 there were 57 maquiladoras operating in Mexico; less than ten years later in 1976, that number had increased to 552. The rise in the number of available jobs in the region led to an extreme swell in the population of the border towns. The maquiladora industry employed 4000 people in 1967, and by 1981 that amount grew to more than 130,000. The maquilas drew the population north to the border in search of employment opportunities, but in many cases the northward pull did not stop there. The proximity of the United States with its markedly higher standard of living continued to pull the people who had migrated to border region even farther north, and led to higher numbers of migrants crossing the United States – Mexico border.\n\nAmendments to the Immigration and Nationality Act continued throughout the 1970s. In 1976 the United State Congress imposed a limit of 20,000 visas per country per year in the Western Hemisphere. At that time Mexico was exceeding that amount by approximately 40,000. In 1978 a new amendment was put in place that enacted a worldwide immigration policy, allowing 290,000 visas per year total, with no limitations per country.\n\nThe end of the Bracero Program combined with restrictions put on the number of visas allowed by the United States greatly increased the levels of illegal migration from Mexico. As a response, in 1986 the United States enacted the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA). Under this act, all undocumented migrants living in the United States as of January 1, 1982, as well as those who had labored in the seasonal agriculture work for at least ninety days during the previous years were granted legal residence. IRCA also made it possible to impose civil and criminal penalties on any employer who knowingly hired undocumented workers. Although a legalization of current undocumented workers, coupled with the increase in penalties suffered by employers who employed future undocumented workers was meant to decrease the total number of undocumented migrants in the United States, the actions did not produce the desired effect; as is evidenced by the number of apprehensions achieved through border patrolling.\n\nStill today, Mexico is the country with the most emigrants in the world, but during the last few years, migratory patterns from Mexico to the United States have changed. A report by the Pew Research Center (February 2012) has shown that for the first time in 60 years, migration trends have reversed, as more Mexicans leave the U.S. than enter it.\n\nSeveral major factors seem to contribute to a general sense among Mexican migrants that there is less profit and more danger to migrate to the U.S., leading many of them to decide that it is better to leave the U.S. or stay in Mexico:\n\nMexican source communities, mostly indigenous villages, are most often poor and rely heavily on the emigration of a part of their members and the remittances they send back to survive economically. Emigration can function as an escape valve to alleviate economical pressure, as it is a source of income and opens up work opportunities in villages of origin. The return of many migrants now thus causes great stress on these communities, who are heading for economic crisis, as important sources of income fall away and more people become unemployed as there is less work available. The states most affected by this phenomenon try to take action to help those who come back, but the full economic impact of the return of migrants is still to come.\n\nSince emigrants are coming back to their mostly poor home communities, sending them into economic crisis, another migration phenomenon is accelerating: internal migration. The lack of work opportunities in small villages drives people to migrate to large cities, rather than to the U.S.. With 78% of the Mexican population living in urban zones, slums are growing fast. Urban violence and crime, stunted growth, malnutrition, poor elementary education, poor hygiene and sanitation are just some of the implications of life in urban slums. According to UNICEF, urban migration has badly worsened the reach of social schemes of health and nutrition.\n\nAmong communities of origin, there is a widespread ambivalence towards migrants, as the money they send back is welcome, but there is resentment against the cultural changes that they bring with them when they come back. Returning migrants are blamed for bringing with them drug use, sexually transmitted diseases, and antisocial behavior. They are held responsible for the abandonment of the traditional indigenous way of life as they bring back western cultural habits and material culture. The return of migrants to Mexico thus has important cultural repercussions and changes the face of their home communities forever.\n\nIn the U.S., Hispanics account for 54% of the day labor workforce and there is a large market for cheap day-laborers. This sector constitutes a non-negligible part of the U.S. economy. With the current migration trends, within a few years, Mexico will not be able to cover current demand for Mexican labor of its neighbor anymore. Migration from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to the U.S. is rising, as their migrants begin to replace Mexican workers. It is however unclear whether other Hispanic American countries follow these trends, and it is unsure whether the gap left by returning Mexican will be filled by such migrants. Experts say the consequences for the U.S. economy may be important.\n\nSince 2010, deportations of illegal immigrants have increased, as deportation procedures became more systematic and border controls were reinforced with police and military patrols. Several states, such as Arizona and Alabama, have passed laws that criminalize illegal migration. Proposed acts that offer easier paths to U.S. citizenship for immigrants, such as the DREAM-act, have been rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "25225616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25225616", "title": "Enos Regnet Wicher", "text": "Enos Regnet Wicher\n\nEnos Regnet Wicher was a professor of physics at Columbia University. During World War II he worked in the Wave Propagation Group at Columbia's Division of War Research and was alleged to have spied for Soviet intelligence with code name was \"Keen\" (also \"Kin\").\n\nHe was married to Maria Wicher and the stepfather of Flora Wovschin, the most active Soviet spy revealed Venona project.\n\nUnofficially extradicted to Mexico, Enos Wicher taught at Mexico City College.\n"}
{"id": "8421630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8421630", "title": "Eric McDavid", "text": "Eric McDavid\n\nEric McDavid (born October 7, 1977) is an American green anarchist who was convicted of conspiring to use fire or explosives to damage corporate and government property. After he spent eight years and 360 days in prison, his conviction was overturned when it became known the FBI had failed to disclose potentially exculpatory evidence to the defense. While U.S. Attorney McGregor W. Scott has called McDavid the first person in the U.S. to be prosecuted on Earth Liberation Front (ELF)-related charges, the trial revealed that McDavid's group had not decided whether or not to claim the planned actions in the name of the ELF. He was convicted and sentenced to 20 years in prison. On January 8, 2015 a federal judge ordered McDavid released from custody after the prosecution conceded that it had withheld thousands of pages of evidence.\n\nTogether with Lauren Weiner, Zachary Jenson, and \"Anna\" (Zoe Elizabeth Voss, a paid FBI informant) he planned acts of arson and sabotage to the Nimbus Dam, United States Forest Service, and nearby utilities. During testimony, \"Anna\" claimed that the group considered the killing of bystanders to be collateral damage, although their plots were focused on property damage.\n\n\"Anna\" had been working with the FBI to infiltrate the group since 2004. She encouraged their activities and provided them with bomb-making information, money to buy the raw materials, transportation and a cabin to work in, and produced consensual audio and video recordings of their activities. According to \"Anna\", McDavid threatened to kill her if she turned out to be working with law enforcement.\n\nDefense attorney Mark Reichel argued that \"Anna\" acted as an agent provocateur: encouraging the group to focus on a target, paying for meeting arrangements and supplies, and urging the group to act when they wavered. Reichel stated at the trial, \"the crisp $100 bills and a Dutch Flat cabin where the group lived in the days leading up to the trio's arrest—all supplied by \"Anna\" thanks to her FBI sponsors...That's the creation of a case...Without 'Anna,' you have nothing.\"\n\nOn January 13, 2006, the three were arrested outside a store where they had purchased household chemicals, presumably for bomb-making. None of the three had prior convictions. McDavid spent 2 years pre-trial in solitary confinement. He also formally declared a hunger strike due to the jail's refusal to provide him with vegan food. He was given vegan food intermittently. At their 2008 trials, Weiner and Jenson both pled guilty and testified against McDavid. His defense contended that he was the victim of entrapment. McDavid was convicted in 2007 and sentenced to 20 years in prison. On May 6, 2009, McDavid's attorney filed an appeal. The appeal was denied in 2010.\n\nAs noted above, on Jan. 8, 2015, McDavid was released from prison after the government admitted it had withheld approximately 2500 pages of documents potentially useful for his defense, which included love letters exchanged between \"Anna\" and McDavid and proof that she had been exempted from a requested FBI polygraph test by her handler, Special Agent Ricardo Torres. The release was made in exchange for his guilty plea to a lesser charge of general conspiracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29858717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29858717", "title": "Esther Salas", "text": "Esther Salas\n\nEsther Salas (born December 29, 1968) is a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey sitting in Newark, New Jersey. She had previously served as a United States Magistrate Judge of the same court since 2006. Salas is the first Hispanic woman to serve as a United States Magistrate Judge in the District of New Jersey, and also the first to serve as a United States District Judge in the District of New Jersey.\n\nEsther Salas is from Monterey Park, California, and is the daughter of Cuban and Mexican immigrants. At the age of five, she, her mother, Aurelia Salas, along with her siblings, moved to Union City, New Jersey, where they lived on 27th Street, and later, 15th Street and Bergenline Avenue. Though she lost contact with her father when she moved from the West Coast, she would later reconnect with him during the course of the background check she underwent upon being appointed a federal judge. Growing up indigent, Salas recalls having to translate for her mother at the Welfare office, and later helping friends with various problems facing their lives, an activity that led to her pursuit of a career focusing on human services. Salas attended Emerson High School, where her extracurricular activities included cheerleading. After graduating high school in 1987, she attended Rutgers University, where she dormed on campus, and was active in clubs and activities. Salas graduated from Rutgers in 1991 with her Bachelor of Arts, and in 1994 from Rutgers University School of Law in Newark with a Juris Doctor. She credits her success during her education and during her later professional life to the Minority Student Program.\n\nFollowing law school graduation, Salas served as a law clerk to Eugene J. Codey Jr., of the Superior Court of New Jersey. From 1995 to 1997, Salas worked for Garces & Grabler, P.C., where she practiced criminal matters in superior and municipal courts. Between 1997 and 2006, she served as an Assistant Federal Public Defender for the District of New Jersey, representing indigent defendants in federal matters. Salas served as president of both the Hispanic Bar Association of New Jersey and the Hispanic Bar Foundation of New Jersey. She has also been a member of the Governor’s Hispanic Advisory Committee for Policy Development, the Supreme Court Committee on Minority Concerns, and the Supreme Court Committee on Women in the Courts.\n\nIn 2006, Salas was selected from a group of 99 applicants as U.S. Magistrate Judge for the District of New Jersey, becoming the first Latina in that position, in which she served for five years. On August 31, 2010, Senators Frank Lautenberg and Robert Menendez, announced they would recommend to President Barack Obama that Salas be nominated to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey as a U.S. District Court judge. Obama nominated her on December 1, 2010, to a seat vacated by the retiring Katharine Sweeney Hayden. On June 14, 2011, the Senate confirmed Salas, making her the first Latina on the District Court of New Jersey.\n\nIn 2013 Judge Salas presided over a notable public corruption case.\n\nJudge Salas was the Judge responsible for the trial of \"Real Housewives of New Jersey\" star Teresa Giudice and her husband Giuseppe \"Joe\" Giudice. They were both sentenced for bank fraud on October 2, 2014.\n\nSalas is married to Mark Anderl, with whom she has a son, Daniel. She is a fan of the New York Mets.\n\n"}
{"id": "38255639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38255639", "title": "Fausto Isidro Meza Flores", "text": "Fausto Isidro Meza Flores\n\nFausto Isidro Meza Flores (born June 19, 1982), commonly referred to by his criminal alias El Chapo Isidro (\"Shorty Isidro\"), is a Mexican drug lord and high-ranking leader of the Beltrán Leyva Cartel, a drug trafficking organization. He is also the alleged leader of Los Mazatlecos and was right-hand man of the now deceased drug lords Héctor and Alfredo Beltrán Leyva. The FBI is offering a USD$5 million bounty.\n\nMeza Flores (known in the criminal world as \"El Chapo Isidro\") was born on June 19, 1982. He began his criminal career in the 1990s, at first working for the Juárez Cartel under the tutelage of the then-leader Amado Carrillo Fuentes. After the drug lord died of plastic surgery complications in 1997, Meza Flores deserted the organization along with several other drug traffickers and decided to join the forces of the Beltrán Leyva Cartel. As a member of the Beltrán Leyva brothers, he proved to be a \"skilled hitman, capable of daring, cunning and bravado.\" When the leader Arturo Beltrán Leyva was gunned down and killed by the Mexican military in December 2009, many within the cartel deserted and left to form an independent criminal organization with Edgar Valdez Villarreal, known as \"La Barbie\". Meza Flores, however, remained loyal to the Beltrán Leyva brothers and possibly forged an alliance with Vicente Carrillo Fuentes.\n\nA fierce gunfight between members of the Sinaloa Cartel (with the backing of Gente Nueva) and the Beltrán Leyva Cartel (with the support of Los Zetas and Meza Flores' men) left about 30 dead in the town of Tubutama, Sonora in northern Mexico on July 1, 2010. The drug gangs clashed just a few miles across the international border with the U.S. state of Arizona – an area notorious for being a smuggling route for narcotics and human trafficking. Reportedly, Meza Flores and a drug trafficker nicknamed \"El Gilo\" were the ones that carried out the surprise ambush attack on the gunmen of the Sinaloa Cartel. Eleven late-model, bullet-ridden vehicles were found at the scene, along with dozens of assault rifles. Some of the vehicles had \"X\" painted on their windows, a method often used by the Mexican drug trafficking organizations to distinguish their vehicles from those of rival drug cartels during armed confrontations.\n\nHis gang, Los Mazatlecos, is based in the region of Guasave, Sinaloa, and is responsible for smuggling large quantities of methamphetamine, heroin, marijuana, and cocaine since 2000. He is one of the principal leaders of the Beltrán Leyva Cartel in the city of Mazatlán and in the mountainous areas of Sinaloa state. Since 2010, he is one of the leading rivals of the Sinaloa Cartel; the fight between the two drug trafficking groups has generated a wave of kidnappings and executions in Sinaloa. Meza Flores was the right-hand man of Héctor Beltrán Leyva (now deceased) the top leader of the Beltrán Leyva Cartel; his area of operations is in Mazatlán, Guamúchil, Los Mochis, Choix and Los Cabos. On April 28, 2010, Meza Flores was nearly captured by Mexican law enforcement in the mountains of Choix, Sinaloa. However, the operation left two soldiers dead and twelve of his gunmen killed, including his right-hand man Omar Alfonso Rubio (alias \"El Chonte\"). On December 12, 2013, one of Meza Flores's top lieutenants, Ignacio \"Nacho\" González was arrested in Guasave, Sinaloa by the Mexican Army.\n\nMeza Flores is a fugitive wanted by the United States government on drug trafficking charges. The FBI is offering a USD$5 million bounty. His last known residence was in the state of Nuevo León, where he was reportedly seen with some of his family members at a youth basketball game in San Pedro Garza García on January 19, 2013.\n\nThe Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the United States Department of the Treasury announced on January 17, 2013 that they froze the assets of Meza Flores, seven of his family members, and three companies that had connection with his criminal organization through the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (sometimes referred to simply as the \"Kingpin Act\").\n\n"}
{"id": "14368023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14368023", "title": "Frank Erickson", "text": "Frank Erickson\n\nFrank Erickson (1896 – March 2, 1968) was born in New York City to parents of Swedish and Irish descent. After the death of his father, he grew up in an orphanage.\n\nFrank Erickson was Arnold Rothstein's right-hand man and New York's largest bookmaker during the 1930s and 40's. Eventually, Erickson became very well known among bookmakers nationwide for handling \"lay-off\" bets. With Chicago's Moses Annenberg, Erickson developed a country wide wire service, making possible for the first time nationwide synchronized betting. Erickson never saw any of these profits because soon after, bookmaking became illegal and the government took over. In Robert Lacey's book on Meyer Lanksy, Erickson was named \"the largest book maker on the East Coast, if not in all America.\" Additionally, it is a little-known fact that many of Erickson's profits went to charity. Along with many other ventures, he was a major contributor to the construction of a children's hospital in NYC. He allegedly had connections with the mob. \n\nHe died on March 2, 1968, from cardiac arrest while undergoing surgery on a bleeding ulcer.\n\nBetween the years of 1919 to 1926 Erickson was arrested five times for gambling only to have the charges dismissed each time. He was arrested again in 1939 for vagrancy and was so insulted by the charge, he arrived to court in an armoured car, escorted by Brink's guards. He showed the presiding body securities worth $125,000 to prove he wasn't a vagrant. That case, too, was dismissed. Erickson served 10 months on Riker's Island after eventually being convicted by District Attorney Frank Hogan.\n\nEisenberg, D., Dan, U., and Landau, E. (1979). \"Meyer Lansky: Mogul of the Mob.\" New York: Paddington Press. , \n\nKatz, L. (1973). \"Uncle Frank.\" New York, NY: Drake Publishers. \n\nKefauver Committee Interim Report #1 Aug. 18, 1950 \nhttp://www.onewal.com/kef/kef1.html\n\nLacey, R. (1991). \"Little Man: Meyer Lansky and the Gangster Life.\" Canada: Little, Brown and Company. \n"}
{"id": "41637982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41637982", "title": "Games Done Quick", "text": "Games Done Quick\n\nGames Done Quick is a semiannual video game speedrun charity marathon held in the United States, originally organized by the Speed Demos Archive and Speedruns Live communities. Since 2015, it has been handled by Games Done Quick, LLC. Held since 2010, the events have raised money for several charities; the most common two being the Prevent Cancer Foundation and Doctors Without Borders. \n\nThe events are broadcast live on Twitch. Viewers are encouraged to donate for incentives during the stream such as naming characters in a run, having the runners attempt more difficult challenges, or winning prizes. Over $16.7 million has been raised across 21 marathons.\n\nSpeedrunners take turns demonstrating their prowess at beating various video games in the quickest possible time, done in front of an audience as well as a livestream through Twitch.tv. Sometimes these runs may be executed in an unusual or specific way, such as fully completing every level, completing a game blindfolded, or featuring multiple runners racing against one another to complete a game first. Video games run in Games Done Quick events include both retro and modern titles. The runs typically feature commentary from the runner(s) or experienced commentators, as well as donation messages read by an announcer.\n\nMost of the popular runs feature video game glitches and discussion between the runner and the commentators, most frequently describing techniques or using observational humor and banter. Humor and banter is especially used for non-interactive or repetitive sequences that don't require the runner to use much or any skill. Donations from viewers may feature humorous comments that contain inside jokes among the speedrunning community, as well as more personal acknowledgements concerning the charity donated to. Because of the live broadcast and wider audience, runners and commentators are encouraged to refrain from using strong profanity and offensive behavior.\n\nWriter and speedrunner Eric Koziel identifies two important precursors to Games Done Quick: the \"Desert Bus for Hope\" donation drive held by LoadingReadyRun in November 2007, and a series of charity speedrun marathons held by The Speed Gamers starting in March 2008. \n\nUsers of the site Speed Demos Archive decided to hold a charity marathon in January 2010, during MAGFest 8. It was themed around 8-bit and 16-bit video games and thus dubbed \"Classic Games Done Quick\" (after the 1990s speedrunning project Quake Done Quick). Internet connectivity problems at the MAGFest hotel forced SDA administrator Mike Uyama to relocate the event to his mother's basement, but it raised over $10,000 for CARE.\n\nFollowing that initial success, the first Awesome Games Done Quick marathon was held in January 2011, expanding from two days to five days, incorporating newer games such as \"\" and \"Portal\", and raising more than $50,000 for the Prevent Cancer Foundation. The first Summer Games Done Quick was held in August 2011, raising $20,000 for the Organisation for Autism Research. Since then, both Awesome Games Done Quick and Summer Games Done Quick have recurred annually, raising larger amounts each year.\n\nA one-off additional marathon was held in March 2011 to support victims of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan; Japan Relief Done Quick raised over $25,000. In addition, a one-off promotional event was held on March 20, 2015 to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the \"God of War\" franchise. Over the course of five hours, God of War Done Quick ended up raising $3,500 for The AbleGamers Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "15834561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15834561", "title": "Honey trapping", "text": "Honey trapping\n\nHoney trapping is an investigative practice that uses romantic and/or sexual relationships for an interpersonal, political or monetary purpose to the detriment of one party involved in this romantic or sexual affair. Investigators are also often employed by wives, husbands, and other partners usually when an illicit romantic affair is suspected of the \"target,\" or subject of the investigation.\n\nOccasionally, the term may be used for the practice of creating an affair for the purpose of taking incriminating photos for use in blackmail. A honey trap is used primarily to collect evidence on the subject of the honey trap.\n\nEach assignment varies depending on what the agent and client decided on during their prior consultant. A common assignment consists of the agent initiating contact with the subject through face-to-face interaction. The agent will attempt to take the communication further into other outlets including: e-mail, text messaging, phone calls, etc. The step after this can be considered the most crucial moment of the assignment. Whether or not the subject agrees to further communication will determine whether the assignment will go deeper or come to an end. The agent will propose a second meeting to the subject. Hotels are often used as a meeting place, not for sexual intercourse, but to determine whether the subject intends for the relationship to escalate. Once the investigation comes to an end, the agent will turn over any record of communication they had with the subject. Other documents that are recorded include: photographs, videos, venue appointments, etc.\n\nIn 2009 the British MI5 distributed a 14-page document to hundreds of British banks, businesses, and financial institutions, titled \"The Threat from Chinese Espionage\". It described a wide-ranging Chinese effort to blackmail Western business people over sexual relationships. The document explicitly warns that Chinese intelligence services are trying to cultivate \"long-term relationships\" and have been known to \"exploit vulnerabilities such as sexual relationships … to pressurise individuals to co-operate with them.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16704844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16704844", "title": "Jam Mohammad Yousaf", "text": "Jam Mohammad Yousaf\n\nJam Mir Mohammad Yousaf Aliani (Urdu: جام مير محمد یوسف عالياني; February 14, 1954 – February 3, 2013) was the 12th Jam of Lasbela, (Urdu: والي رياست لسبيله) and a former Chief Minister of Balochistan province of Pakistan.\n\nMir Jam Mohammad Yousaf was born in 1954 at Lasbela, Balochistan. He belonged to the Jam family of Lasbela, whose ancestor Jam Ali Khan I founded the state of Las Bela in 1742 and ruled it until 1955 when the state became part of Pakistan. The hereditary rulers of Las Bela are styled as Jam Sahib.\n\nHe did an MA and LLB in 1979.\n\nYousaf served as the Chief Minister of Balochistan province from 2002 to 2007.\nHe also had been the Minister for Water and Power, Railways and a Minister in Balochistan assembly. Previously he has held positions as MNA and MPA in the National and Balochistan Provincial Assembly. He was the Provincial President of PML (Q) from 2002.\n\nJam Mohammad Yousaf died of cardiac arrest on 3 February 2013 in Islamabad, and buried in Bara Bagh Cemetery, Lasbela.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56025078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56025078", "title": "James Spence Medal", "text": "James Spence Medal\n\nJames Spence Medal was a medal that was first struck in 1960, six years after the death of the paediatrician James Calvert Spence and is awarded for outstanding contributions to the advancement or clarification of paediatric knowledge and is the highest honour bestowed by The Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health.\n"}
{"id": "36437969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36437969", "title": "Jin Gyeong-suk", "text": "Jin Gyeong-suk\n\nJin Gyeong-suk (June 24, 19802005), also known as Jin Kyung-sook, was a North Korean woman who, after successfully defecting to South Korea in 2002, was abducted in China two years later and forcefully deported back to North Korea, where she was tortured and murdered.\n\nIn August 2004, Jin, who had acquired South Korean citizenship after her arrival there two years earlier, and her husband, Mun Jeong-hun, traveled on their honeymoon to the Jilin Province in northern China. Commissioned by a Japanese film production company, the couple had planned to make a video about the involvement of the North Korean regime in the drug trade. In this context, they met a supposed middle-man on the Chinese side of the Tumen River, which forms a border between China and North Korea. This middle-man was supposed to smuggle a video camera into North Korea, to facilitate gathering of evidence on film of the drug production taking place there. The meeting with the middle-man turned out to be a trap. Jin and her husband were abducted by four men disguised as road construction workers, but who, it is believed, were agents of the North Korean secret service. While her husband managed to escape, Jin Gyeong-suk was forced into a sack and transported across the Tumen River into North Korea. Later investigations showed that she was deported to the Chongjin concentration camp in the northern Hamgyong Province, where she was interrogated, tortured, and eventually murdered.\n\nThe case proved to be politically highly charged, and indeed for two reasons: \n\n\nJin's abduction to North Korea garnered a flurry of media attention. Various human rights organizations intervened, expending considerable energy and resources to seek Jin’s release; they attempted as well to determine whether Jin was still alive. The family petitioned to then South Korean president Roh Moo-hyun and pushed for her return to South Korea, without, however, receiving a response from the president.\n\nJin died around early January 2005, at the Chongjin concentration camp. The cause of death was determined to be the result of the residual effects of torture to which she had been subjected to.\n"}
{"id": "38916415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38916415", "title": "Lasowiacy", "text": "Lasowiacy\n\nThe Lasowiacy or Lesioki, are a subethnic group of the Polish nation, who reside in Lesser Poland, at the confluence of the Vistula and the San rivers, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, southeastern Poland. They are descended from various ethnic groups, which settled in the dense Sandomierz Wilderness across centuries, with a dominant Polish element. The Lasowiacy were formed as a separate subethnic group in the late 19th and early 20th century. They use their own dialect, which belongs to Lesser Polish dialect of the Polish language. Like most Poles, the Lasowiacy are Roman Catholics.\n\nThe area inhabited by the Lasowiacy ranges from Sandomierz and Nisko in the north, to Głogów Małopolski, Leżajsk, and Ropczyce. According to Polish ethographer Franciszek Kotula, their territory is much wider, reaching to Tarnogród, Janów Lubelski and Biłgoraj.\n\nThe Lasowiacy were formed as a separate subethnic group in the 19th century. Sandomierz Wilderness, one of the largest forests in southern Poland, was for centuries sparsely inhabited. In the mid-14th century, King Kazimierz Wielki established several towns located on the edge of the wilderness. In the 16th century, settlers from Mazovia began to arrive here, founding several villages (e.g. Mazury). Furthermore, in the 16th and 17th centuries, upon royal orders, the forest was settled by prisoners of war from several countries, such as Swedish Empire, Crimean Khanate, Turkish Empire, Muscovy, Rus', Grand Duchy of Lithuania Wallachia, as well as German mercenaries, who served in different armies.\n\nIn the late 18th century, southern Lesser Poland and neighboring Red Ruthenia were annexed by the Habsburg Empire, as the newly created province of Galicia. Soon, first German-speaking settlers came to the Sandomierz Wilderness, during the action initiated by Emperor Joseph II. Furthermore, after the 1815 Congress of Vienna, the border between Austria and Russian Empire was established along the Vistula. As a result, inhabitants of the wilderness were for 100 years separated from Sandomierzanie, another local subethnic group, named after the town of Sandomierz, which deepened their isolation.\n\nThe Lasowiacy dialect (Polish gwara lasowiacka or gwara lasowska) belongs to the Lesser Poland dialect of the Polish language. Since the wilderness was settled by the Mazovians, the Lasowiacy dialect has several features of the Masovian dialect, such as mazurzenie. Melchior Wańkowicz in his 1939 book Sztafeta gives an interesting example of the Lasowiacy dialect. In 1938, he went to the Lasowiacy village of Pławo, where a brand new industrial town of Stalowa Wola was being built. Wańkowicz talked to local residents, writing in the book: \"The people in this village call themselves Lasowiacy, speaking a funny accent, which sounds like a mix of goral dialect, and the language of Kurpie\".\n\nSince bulk of the Lasowiacy inhabited the vast wilderness, they supported themselves by forestry, with such activities, as hunting, honey making, tar making and production of charcoal. There also were skilled artisans – carpenters, coopers, pot makers, wicker workers, and weavers. Since parts of the wilderness were cleared and turned into farmfields, several kinds of cereal and vegetables are cultivated here. Local soil, however, is not fertile, allowing for cultivation of potatoes, beetroots, rye and oat.\n\nThe Lasowiacy used to live in log cabins, with a number of them making hamlets, located in the woods. Their clothes were made of linen, with most popular colors white, black and red. The open-air museum in Kolbuszowa (formerly known as Regional Museum of the Lasowiacy) features several original examples of the Lasowiacy culture. In 1956, Dancing Ensemble Lasowiacy was created in Stalowa Wola.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30236911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30236911", "title": "List of Arabic language academies", "text": "List of Arabic language academies\n\nArabic Language Academy may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "3494688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3494688", "title": "MIT Science Fiction Society", "text": "MIT Science Fiction Society\n\nThe MIT Science Fiction Society (or MITSFS) of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is a student organization which maintains and administers a large publicly-accessible library of science fiction, fantasy, and science fantasy books and magazines.\n\nIn 1950, the club was instrumental in microfilming \"Astounding Science Fiction\", leading to it becoming a recognized student organization in 1951. In 1961, Anthony R. Lewis became Librarian, and the library growth began in earnest. With the Stratton Student Center opening in 1965, the Society moved out of the old Walker Memorial building to the new building. At about the same time, Erwin Strauss compiled a science fiction index for periodicals from 1951 to 1955, called \"The MIT Science Fiction Society's Index to the S-F Magazines 1951 - 1965\". MIT rules barred the Society from publishing the book because student organizations were prohibited from commercial activity, so Strauss published it himself under the same title.\n\nIn 1965, MITSFS joined with the UMass SFS and others, including Hal Clement, in forming the \"Boston Science Fiction Society\", holding the first Boskone convention. In 1967, NESFA arose from the ashes of that group, and brought the WorldCon to Boston in 1971. In the mid-1970s, the MIT Libraries started partially funding acquisition of newly published books.\n\nIn 1972, the widow of respected Golden Age editor John W. Campbell donated her husband's personal set of \"Astounding Science Fiction\". Campbell had almost finished an MIT physics degree, but transferred to Duke University to avoid a German language requirement, and then pursued a lifetime career in writing and editing science fiction.\n\nGuest speakers at meetings of the Society have included Hugo Gernsback (whose 1963 address to the Society has been published as \"Prophets of Doom\"), Frederik Pohl, John W. Campbell, Isaac Asimov, Hal Clement, and Larry Niven, and more recently John Scalzi and Charles Stross. The Society was instrumental in the first Boskone science fiction convention, in NESFA founding, and in the Noreascon in 1971, among others. The World Science Fiction Society, which sponsors the Hugo awards, is still located in Cambridge.\n\nSome past members include Durk Pearson, Rick Norwood, Al Kuhfeld, Bill Sarill, Whit Diffie, Geoffrey A. Landis, Erwin Strauss, and Guy Consolmagno. The Society has been mentioned in Laurence M. Janifer's \"The Counterfeit Heinlein: A Gerald Knave Science Fiction Adventure\".\n\nScience fiction is an important literary genre to many members of the MIT community. The first computer game, \"Spacewar!\", was developed at Project MAC by Steve Russell, Martin \"Shag\" Graetz, Wayne Wiitanen, and other fans of the Lensman series.\n\nThe Society is informal in its operations, but has developed an elaborate pseudo-hierarchy with officer titles such as \"Skinner\", \"Lord High Embezzler\", and \"Onseck\". However, actual theft and vandalism are regarded as serious crimes, and strict security rules have developed to protect the collection, such as requiring that all backpacks, permanent markers, and pens be left at the library entrance.\n\nThe greatest ongoing challenge for MITSFS is finding sufficient physical space for its tightly-packed and ever-growing library collection. More than 45,000 books are crammed into less than of space, and some 16,000 volumes of its collection must be stored offsite in a warehouse.\n\nThe over 60,000 volumes constitute the \"world's largest open-shelf collection of science fiction\"; although the Eaton collection of the University of California, Riverside is larger, that collection is not on open shelves. According to MITSFS, the library once included \"over 90% of all science fiction ever published in English\", although a profusion of self-publishing now may have outdistanced it. The library is freely available for browsing by the public, as well as for borrowing by members. Membership is open to anyone who pays the modest dues and agrees to abide by the rules.\n\nThe library is financially supported by membership dues, and by MIT's Association of Student Activities funding board. The catalog of the library may be searched online through the PinkDex. Some of the library's contents include full runs of Astounding Science Fiction and other American science fiction magazines, and full or nearly full runs of the major American fantasy magazines. It has first editions of \"The Lord of the Rings\", editions in French and German of \"The Hobbit\", all of the paperback versions of the series, CDs of the series, copies of all of Tolkien's related works, and so on. In fantasy, it has all of the \"Harry Potter\" books, with some also in German and Russian.\n\nThe collection is physically located in MIT's Julius Adams Stratton Student Center at 84 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts. , the library is usually open 7 days a week, though Monday hours may be curtailed or occasionally dropped, and summer hours may be reduced.\n"}
{"id": "29451414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29451414", "title": "Mahl people", "text": "Mahl people\n\nMahl people refers to the ethnic Maldivians of India (i.e. People of Minicoy and migrant communities from Minicoy). They are one of the three subgroups of the Maldivians and speak the Mahl dialect of Divehi which is a member of the southern group of Indo-Aryan languages. All Mahls are native to Minicoy Island in the Union territory of Lakshadweep, India, which was formerly a part of the Maldive Islands.\n\nLocal oral tradition has it that Kamborani and Kohoratukamana, two princesses from the Maldives, came to Minicoy. When they arrived, the Tivaru, who had been living there before, left the island for Sri Lanka. The Kamborani's descendants are the bodun (land- and shipowners) and the descendants of Kohoratukamana are the niamin (captains). The other status-groups are made up of the descendants of their crew. Traditions like this and linguistic affinities with the Mahl dialect of Divehi spoken in Minicoy and the standard Maldivian dialect, compared with the southern Maldivian dialects in which archaic features are more well-preserved suggest that Minicoy was principally settled by settlers from Malé or the northern Maldives.\n\nMost Mahls live in their native land of Maliku (Minicoy) in the union territory of Lakshadweep, India. In Lakshadweep the Mahls emerged as a separate ethnic group and are 15.67% of the total population of Lakshadweep. \n\nThere are migrant communities of Mahls in other parts of India too. The origin of all the Mahl communities in India and elsewhere lies in the island of Minicoy. A number of Mahls have settled in the districts of Kozhikode, Malappuram, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum) in the southern state of Kerala. There is a community of Mahls in Kerala who came and settled there in the 17th century, when the islands of Lakshadweep came under the rule of Ali Rajahs/Arakkal Bheevi of Kannur.\n\nAccording to the ethno-history of the Thakru, a person named Thakru came to Minicoy from Atol Addu in Maldives and married thrice, and the present Thakru are his descendants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56785653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56785653", "title": "Marvin Krohn", "text": "Marvin Krohn\n\nMarvin Donald \"Marv\" Krohn (born March 5, 1947) is an American criminologist who has been a professor at the University of Florida since 2008. He was formerly the director of the Division of Criminology, Law and Society there until 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1516747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516747", "title": "Merina people", "text": "Merina people\n\nThe Merina people (also known as the Imerina, Antimerina or Hova) are the largest ethnic group in Madagascar. They are the \"highlander\" Malagasy ethnic group of the African island and one of the country's eighteen official ethnic groups. Their origins are mixed, predominantly with Malayo-Indonesians arriving before the 5th century AD, then many centuries later by Arabs, Africans and other ethnic groups. They speak the Merina dialect of the official Malagasy language of Madagascar.\n\nThe Merina people are most commonly found in the center of the island (former Antananarivo Province). Beginning in the late 18th century, Merina sovereigns expanded the political region under their control from their interior capital, outwards into the island, with their king Radama I ultimately helping unite the island under their rule. The French fought two wars with the Merina people in 1883-1885 and in 1895, colonized Madagascar in 1895–96 and abolished the Merina monarchy in 1897.\n\nThey built innovative and elaborate irrigation infrastructure and highly productive rice farms in high plateaus of Madagascar by the 18th century. The Merina people were socially stratified with hierarchical castes, inherited occupations and endogamy, as well as one where two of the major and long serving monarchs of the Merina people were queens.\n\nAustronesian people started settling in Madagascar between 200 and 500 CE. They arrived by boats and were from various southeast Asian groups. Later Swahili-Arabs and Indian traders came to the island's northern regions. African slaves were brought to the island's coasts between the 13th and the 18th centuries. The Portuguese traders were the first Europeans to arrive in the 15th century, followed by other European powers.\nThis influx of diverse people led to various Malagasy sub-ethnicities in the mid-2nd millennium. The Merina were probably the early arrivals, though this is uncertain and other ethnic groups on Madagascar consider them relative newcomers to the island. The Merina people's culture likely mixed and merged with the Madagascar natives named \"Vazimba\" about whom little is known. According to the island's oral traditions, the \"most Austronesian looking\" Merina people reached the interior of the island in the 15th century and established their society there because of wars and migrant pressure at the coast. Merina people were settled in the central Madagascar, formed one of the three major kingdoms on the island by the 18th century – the other two being Sakalava kingdom on the west-northwest and Betsimisaraka kingdom on the east-northeast.\n\nThese early Merina settlers through their industriousness and innovative abilities built vast irrigation projects that helped drain the plateau marshes, irrigate arable lands, and grow rice two times every year. They emerged as the politically dominant group and a wealthy kingdom towards the close of the 18th century. The capital of their kingdom remains the capital of contemporary Madagascar.\n\nOral history traces the emergence of a united kingdom in the central highlands of Madagascar – a region called Imerina – back to early 16th-century king Andriamanelo. By 1824, a succession of Merina kings had conquered nearly all of Madagascar, particularly through the military strategy, ambitious treaties and political policies of Andrianampoinimerina (circa 1785–1810) and his son Radama I (1792–1828). The colonial British empire recognized the sovereignty of the Merina kingdom and its control of the Madagascar island in 1817. Radama I welcomed European traders and allowed Christian missionaries to establish missions on Madagascar. After him, the Merina people were ruled by Queen Ranavolona I ruled from 1828 to 1861, Queen Rasoherina from 1863 to 1868, and Queen Ranavolona II ruled from 1868 to 1885.\n\nThe Swahili Arab traders expanded their opportunities to trade and European colonial powers such as the French trader Joseph-François Lambert signed a disputed lease with King Radama II for plantation lands for sugarcane cultivation and industries along the Madagascar coastal plains. The Merina people called the Malagasy living along the coasts as \"Cotier\". These operations and plantations were worked by the forced labor of imported slaves. The largest influx of slaves was brought in by the 'Umani Arabs and the French. The Makua people from Mozambique were one of the major victims of this demand, slave capture and export that attempted to satisfy this demand. The slavery was abolished by the French administration in 1896, which adversely impacted the fortunes of Merina and non-Merina operated slave-run plantations.\nThe dominance of the Merina kingdom over all of Madagascar came to an end with the first Franco-Hova War of 1883 to 1885, triggered by the disputed lease signed by Radama II. At the war's end, Madagascar ceded Antsiranana (Diégo Suarez) on the northern coast to France and paid 560,000 gold francs to the heirs of Joseph-François Lambert, a Frenchman who had been promised lucrative trade privileges under King Radama II that had later been revoked. The French declared Madagascar as a protectorate in 1894, which the then Merina Queen refused to sign to. The Second Franco-Hova War followed in 1895, when the French military landed in Mahajanga (Majunga) and marched by way of the Betsiboka River to the capital, Antananarivo, taking the city's defenders by surprise. In 1896, the French annexed Madagascar, and in 1897 the Merina people became the residents of the colony of French Madagascar.\n\nIn early 20th century, the Merina people led an anti-French nationalist movement. The group, based in Antananarivo, was led by a Malagasy Protestant clergyman, Pastor Ravelojoana. A secret society dedicated to affirming Malagasy cultural identity was formed in 1913, calling itself Iron and Stone Network (in local language, Vy Vato Sakelika – VVS). Repressed at first with numerous arrests over 1915 and 1916, the movement re-emerged in the 1920s through communists who gained concessions by partnering with the French Left in France.\n\nA famine in 1943-44 led to an open rebellion in Madagascar. The 1946 constitution of the French Fourth Republic made Madagascar a \"territoire d'outre-mer\" (overseas territory) within the French Union. Madagascar gained full independence in 1958 as the Malagasy Republic. The Merina people faced competition from other ethnic groups. The first president of the Republic, Philibert Tsiranana, was a coastal Malagasy of Tsimihety ethnicity, and he was able to consolidate his power with a winner-takes-all system, while the Merina nationalists of the Congress Party for the Independence of Madagascar was weakened by rifts between leftist and ultranationalist factions. The Merina form much of the elite and educated middle-class of Madagascar. They are influential in the economy, universities and government organizations of Madagascar.\n\nThe Merina dialect of the Malagasy language, also called as Hova or Malagasy Plateau or just Malagasy, is spoken natively by about a quarter of the population of Madagascar; it is classified as Plateau Malagasy alongside the Betsileo, Bezanozano, Sihanaka, Tanala, Vakinankaritra dialects. The Hova is one of two official languages alongside French in the 2010 constitution putting in place the Fourth Republic. Previously, under the 2007 constitution, Malagasy was one of three official languages alongside French and English.\n\nMerina is the national language of Madagascar. An estimated 7.5 million people were fluent in this language in 2011, according to Ethnologue. It is written in Latin script, introduced by the Christian missionaries. Merina is the language of instruction in all public schools through grade five for all subjects, and remains the language of instruction through high school for the subjects of history and Malagasy language.\n\nKing Radama I welcomed Christian missionaries to establish missions on Madagascar in the 1810s. The Merina nobles were along the first to convert to Christianity. The London Missionary Society established numerous missions along the coast of Madagascar in the 1820s. Those who converted were offered scholarships in London and apprenticeship in Manchester.\n\nDue to the influence of British missionaries, the Merina upper classes converted to Protestantism entirely in the mid-19th century, following the example of their queen, Ranavalona II. The early spread of Protestantism among the Merina elite resulted in a degree of class and ethnic differentiation among practitioners of Christianity. The French preferred Catholic intrepreters and the former slaves of the Merina people converted to Catholicism. The ruling and noble class, however was Protestant. The nobility attempted to intervene, by expelling certain Christian missions. This dynamic ultimately created religious sect divisions in contemporary demographics.\n\nAmong all the Malagasy ethnicities, the Merina historically have had a highly stratified caste system. The overall society, like many ethnic groups in Africa, had two category of people, the free locally called the \"fotsy\" who had ancestors with Asian Malagasy physiognomy, and the serfs or \"mainty\" who had ancestors with African physiognomy mostly captured in other parts of Madagascar. However, the fotsy-mainty dichotomy among Merina is not based on physiognomy, states Karen Middleton, but whether they have a family tomb: \"fotsy\" have family tomb, \"mainty\" are those without one or those who have established a recent tomb. The Merine people were divided into three strata: the \"Andriana\" (nobles), the \"Hova\" (freemen), and the lowest strata called \"Andevo\" (slaves).\n\nEach strata had been then hierarchically subdivided. The \"Andriana\" are divided into six sub-strata, each had an inherited occupation, and were endogamous.\n\nThe nineteenth century records show that \"Andevo\" or slaves were imported blacks, and they constituted about a third of the Merina society. The Merina society sold highland slaves to both Muslim and European slave traders on Madagascar coast, as well as bought East African and southeast African slaves from them for their own plantations between 1795 and 1895. Marriage and any sexual relations between the \"fotsy\" and \"mainty\" were a taboo. According to a 2012 report by Gulnara Shahinian – the United Nation's Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, the descendants of former slave castes continue to suffer in contemporary Madagascar Merina society, and inter-caste marriages socially ostracized.\n\nThe \"Vazimba\" feature prominently in Merina oral history and popular imagination. It has been speculated that the Vazimba were the original population of Madagascar, descended from Southeast Asian seafarers who may have had pygmy physical characteristics. Among some Malagasy, the Vazimba are not believed to be human at all, but rather a form of supernatural creature possessing magical powers (\"mahery\").\n\nIn the first seven years of their lives, boys are typically circumcised in a ritual wherein relatives request the blessings and protection of the ancestors. The Merina people also ritually kill their cattle with unusual violence, cook and consume beef prepared thereafter ceremoniously.\n\nThe Merina believe their land to be \"tanin'drazana\" (the land of the ancestors) and show reverence to their ancestors by burying them in family tombs typically located in the ancestral village of origin. Many believe that ancestors can intervene in events on Earth, for good or for ill, and this belief shapes the actions and thoughts of many Malagasy.\n\nThe cuisine of the Merina is so heavily dominated by rice that the term for eating a meal is simply \"to eat rice\". This staple of the diet is so central to the Merina that it is considered to be \"masina\", or holy, and a common Merina belief holds that the eating of rice is the key to moral behaviour, and the French who occupied Merina lands were often looked down upon for eating bread over rice. Beef also plays a large part in the Merina diet, and according to Merina oral history, it was a servant of King Ralambo who discovered that cows were edible and shared this knowledge with the king, who in turn informed the rest of his kingdom.\n\nRice, cassave and potatoes are staple crops of the Merina people. They also grow onions and other supplements, while cattle, pigs and animal husbandry is also a significant occupation. Many Merina people have moved into urban areas, where they operate factories and run businesses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13888527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13888527", "title": "Migrants' African routes", "text": "Migrants' African routes\n\nThe expression migrants' routes suggests the main geographical routes taken by migrants.\n\nFrom Africa, the routes mainly head towards Europe, however they are slightly changing in the last years, moving towards South Africa and Asia.\n\nThe majority of the African migrants haven't got European travel visas, therefore their only accessible ways northward is that of travelling through the trans-Saharan routes. These routes are often shaped on the old ones used by caravans and during transumanza through the desert and on renewed and informal local networks, bent on the new survival needs and to pitiless rules of competition and exploitation.\n\nAbout the 10% of the whole migratory stream uses sea routes.\n\nThe major part of African migrants usually doesn't go beyond the coastal regions of the North Africa, putting their journey to an end in one of the Mediterranean coastal countries (especially in Libya and in Maghreb, where nowadays almost 2 millions of irregular migrants live).\n\nJust a few migrants (between 10 and 15%) tries to head towards Europe facing control and repression policies adopted by any countries against irregular migration. The unexpected migrants' stream towards North African countries, together with the European effort and help to restrain this stream coming from Sub-Saharan Africa, prompted local governments to adopt repression and forced homecoming measures. According to the lack of repatriation agreements, migrants are mainly brought to the southern areas bordering the neighbouring countries (Rosso, near the Mauritania–Senegal border; Oujda, near the Morocco–Algeria border; Tinzouatine and In Guezzam, respectively near Algeria–Mali and Algeria-Niger borders).\n\nWhile the European policies,which have submitted the migration check to the coastal local authorities, seem to be effective in restraining the maritime migratory stream coming from Maghreb (though indirectly increasing human rights abuses), in 2007 trans-saharan and maritime routes from Africa have spread all over both modifying primal origins and increasing distances, human and material loss of the Great Migration. New routes have developed directly from Sub-Saharan countries (Senegal, Gambia, Guinea coast) creating new entry paths and new migratory strategies (i.e. the increasing number of underages because less exposed to the risk of forced homecoming), which have partially varied the migrants' origins (fewer migrants from Sub-Sahara and more from Egypt and Morocco) but still not reducing the migratory pressure from Libya, which is still the major source of people migrating towards Italy and the main spot of departure for the European dream.\n\nFor many migrants, who try to cross the various African borders and their complex security, crime or corruption systems, this is a real human odyssey, about which in many cases we lack traces and witnesses. The journey is not only very expensive (people earning less than 1 Euro per day may spend thousands of Euros for this journey), but also very hazardous as far as life is concerned. The number of human losses during journeys across the desert, the sea or during other stops is really huge. United nations High Commission for Refugees, UNHCR, announced since the beginning of 2018, at least 50 migrants have died trying to cross the Mediterranean. The reasons that prompt people to undertake the journey are mainly economic, for people in search of better life conditions, but also cultural and symbolic (e.g. in Sub-Saharan Africa the journey is mainly meant as a different way of undergoing the traditional rites of passage).\n\nThrough the modification of control and repression measures, the Sub-Saharan African migratory process is changing and therefore gradually tracing new maritime and overland routes, soon led by criminal organisations and networks of local go-betweens, which create new collusion between the police and the so-called \"passeurs\" within the exploitation of human beings.\n\nThis is the first migratory route, which covers the old caravan trail passing by Agadez and Dirkou (in Niger) and the Sabha oasis (in Libya), and was gone through first in the 1990s from a huge migratory stream appealed in Libya by political measures aimed at opening the borders introduced by Muammar Gaddafi in 1992.\n\nIn the last years the Libyan migratory policy has been aiming at contrasting the Western embargo and at supporting the use of Southern foreign workforce in order to overcome the productive lack especially in the field of agriculture and construction. These measures have been blocked after xenophobic reactions occurred in 2000 in Tripoli and Zawiya.\n\nFrom then onwards, Libya, being the country with the majority of immigrants among the local countries (about 1 million and a half immigrants among 5 millions and a half inhabitants, mainly distributed on the coastal area), aims at restraining and repressing irregular migrants. Libya and its policy have been supported (despite the continuous human rights violations) by the agreements on the control on irregular migrations signed together with the European countries (especially Italy).\n\nFollowing the widely reported drowning of over 200 migrants traveling from Libya to Europe in March 2009, the Libyan Interior Minister Abdelfattah Yunis al-Obeidi announced an agreement with Nigerien Interior Minister Albadé Abouba to begin joint patrols to stem the flow of migrants through Niger into Libya. The majority of Sub-Saharan migrants who travel through Libya come by this route.\n\nFrom 2000 onwards has been traced a new much more westward oriented route, which gathers the migratory stream moving from Sub-Saharan Africa, which is mostly exposed to conflicts and crisis (such as Nigeria, Côte d'Ivoire, Liberia, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Central African Republic, Cameroon, etc.) as well as the smaller migratory stream coming from Central Asia.\n\nSo, nowadays migrants rediscover and go through the old routes of Sub-Saharan caravan networks covered for centuries by nomadic people (Tuareg) from Mali, Niger and Algeria.\n\nThe new joints passed through by caravans reshape the urban landscape and many cities, like Agadez and Arlit in Niger, Bamako and Gao in Mali and Tamanrasset in Algeria, are filled with migrants and other people involved in the handling and transporting illegal migrants.\nFrom these junts migrants head especially towards Maghnia on the Moroccan border and the Spanish enclave in Ceuta and Melilla on the coast, where they continuously try to cross the barriers in defence of the cities or to reach the nearest spots on the Algerian and Tunisian coasts. Between 2000 and 2005 the migratory pressure in Morocco has increased and reached its highest point in summer-autumn 2005, when hundreds of migrants assaulted the barriers of the two Spanish enclaves (Ceuta and Melilla), causing the death of dozens of people and the injure of hundreds of people.\n\nThe renewed policy of cooperation between Madrid and Rabat, launched by Government Zapatero in 2004, prompts Moroccan authorities to adopt measures to dissuade and restrain irregular migration, causing a new southward movement of the migratory routes toward the Canary Islands.\n\nThe third route toward the Spanish Canary Islands, located in the offing of Mauritania, has a long history of irregular migrations, which has been increasing from 90s onwards because of the gradual closures of the way outs northwards.\n\nThe new restraining measures on the Mediterranean coasts, following up the agreements between Italy and Spain, are gradually moving the migratory pressure on the maritime route between El Aaiún in Western Sahara and the Canary Islands. This trail lasts almost a night. As time goes by, the fishermen' ships (dugout or pateras) of the Western Sahara, which have been strengthened with more powerful engines and therefore are more and more crowded with irregular migrants, are forced to start their journey from coastal spots more and more far-away from El Aaiún route. On the other hand, the restrictions adopted on the Mauritanian and Moroccan coasts deter fishermen from attempting this long journey and the starting points are no longer the Western- Saharan ones, but they become southward oriented, including the coasts of Senegal, Gambia and Gulf of Guinea.\n\nThe economic costs and the losses of human lives during the passage to the West and the resulting exploitation processes are due to the increase in distance and to the risks of the transfer. Migrants, helped by a compass and little information on the driving of a boat, are in charge of leading it and this behaviour considerably increases the risks of the transfer. This also leads to an increasing number of castaways on the Atlantic coasts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20778", "title": "Misandry", "text": "Misandry\n\nMisandry () is the hatred of, contempt for, or prejudice against men or boys. \"Misandrous\" or \"misandrist\" can be used as adjectival forms of the word. Misandry can manifest itself in numerous ways, including sexual discrimination, denigration of men, violence against men, sexual objectification of men.\n\nMisandry is formed from the Greek \"misos\" (μῖσος, \"hatred\") and \"anēr\", \"andros\" (ἀνήρ, gen. ἀνδρός; \"man\"). Use of the word can be found as far back as the nineteenth century, including an 1871 use in \"The Spectator\" magazine. It appeared in \"Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary\" (11th ed.) in 1952. Translation of the French \"\"misandrie\" to the German \"Männerhass\"\" (Hatred of Men) is recorded in 1803. Misandry is parallel in form to 'misogyny'.\n\nActivist Warren Farrell has written of his views on how men are uniquely marginalized in what he calls their \"disposability\", the manner in which the most dangerous occupations, notably soldiering and mining, were historically performed exclusively by men and remain so today. In his book, \"The Myth of Male Power\", Farrell argues that patriarchal societies do not make rules to benefit men at the expense of women. Farrell contends that nothing is more telling about who has benefited from \"men's rules\" than life expectancy, which is lower in males, and suicide rates, which are higher.\n\nAcademic Alice Echols, in her 1989 book \"Daring To Be Bad: Radical Feminism in America, 1967–1975\", argued that the radical feminist Valerie Solanas, best known for her attempted murder of Andy Warhol in 1968, displayed an extreme level of misandry compared to other radical feminists of the time in her tract the \"SCUM Manifesto\". Echols stated:\n\nAndrea Dworkin criticized the biological determinist strand in radical feminism that, in 1977, she found \"with increasing frequency in feminist circles\" which echoed the views of Valerie Solanas that males are biologically inferior to women and violent by nature, requiring a gendercide to allow for the emergence of a \"new \"Übermensch\" Womon\".\n\nThe author bell hooks has discussed the issue of \"man hating\" during the early period of women's liberation as a reaction to patriarchal oppression and women who have had bad experiences with men in non-feminist social movements. She has also criticized separatist strands of feminism as \"reactionary\" for promoting the notion that men are inherently immoral, inferior, and unable to help end sexist oppression or benefit from feminism. In \"Feminism is For Everybody\", hooks laments the fact that feminists who critiqued anti-male bias in the early women's movement never gained mainstream media attention and that \"our theoretical work critiquing the demonization of men as the enemy did not change the perspective of women who were anti-male.\" hooks has theorized previously that this demonization led to an unnecessary rift between the men's movement and the women's movement.\n\nAlthough hooks doesn't name individual separatist theorists, Mary Daly's utopian vision of a world in which men and heterosexual women have been eliminated is an extreme example of this tendency. Daly argued that sexual equality between men and women was not possible and that women, due to their superior capacities, should rule men. Yet later, in an interview, Daly argued \"If life is to survive on this planet, there must be a decontamination of the Earth. I think this will be accompanied by an evolutionary process that will result in a drastic reduction of the population of males.\"\n\nPaul Nathanson and Katherine K. Young argued that \"ideological feminism\" as opposed to \"egalitarian feminism\" has imposed misandry on culture. Their 2001 book, \"Spreading Misandry\", analyzed \"pop cultural artifacts and productions from the 1990s\" from movies to greeting cards for what they considered to be pervasive messages of hatred toward men. \"Legalizing Misandry\" (2005), the second in the series, gave similar attention to laws in North America.\n\nWendy McElroy, an individualist feminist, wrote in 2001 that some feminists \"have redefined the view of the movement of the opposite sex\" as \"a hot anger toward men [that] seems to have turned into a cold hatred.\" She argued it was a misandrist position to consider men, as a class, to be irreformable or rapists.\n\nIn a 2016 article, author and journalist Cathy Young described a \"current cycle of misandry\" in feminism. This cycle, she explains, includes the use of the term \"mansplaining\" and other neologisms using \"man\" as a derogatory prefix. The term \"mansplaining\", according to feminist writer Rebecca Solnit, was coined soon after the appearance in 2008 of her essay \"Men Explain Things to Me\".\n\nMen's rights activists and other masculinist groups have criticized modern laws concerning divorce, domestic violence, and rape as examples of institutional misandry.\n\nIn a study of 488 college students regarding ambivalent sexism towards men, researchers found that women who did not identify as feminists were more likely to be hostile towards men than self-identified feminists, but also more likely to hold benevolent views towards men.\n\nIn a study of 503 self-identified heterosexual females, social psychologists found an association between insecure attachment styles and women's hostile sexism towards men, while others dispute that feminism is build around misandry.\n\nReligious studies professors Paul Nathanson and Katherine Young examined the institutionalization of misandry in the public sphere in their 2001 three-book series \"Beyond the Fall of Man\", which refers to misandry as a \"form of prejudice and discrimination that has become institutionalized in North American society\", writing, \"The same problem that long prevented mutual respect between Jews and Christians, the teaching of contempt, now prevents mutual respect between men and women.\"\n\nStanford University Professor Philip Zimbardo writing for Psychology Today, argued that there was an empathy gap between young men and young women, with young women receiving more empathy and sympathy, and that young men were sometimes demonized and given conflicting messages about acceptable behavior and that this contributed to negative effects such as high young male suicide rates. The piece was part of a promotion for his book \"Man, Interrupted: Why Young Men are Struggling & What We Can Do About It\".\n\nIn November 2015, it was reported that the Canadian government was going to resettle thousands of Syrian refugees, but they would exclude single men. Only single women, families and unaccompanied minors would be taken in. In 2017, an article on newsdeeply claimed that similar policies were still being carried out. The author went on the say that resettlement countries are acting on the bigoted stereotype of Arab men as dangerous potential terrorists, rather than as the vulnerable refugees and survivors.\n\nSociologist Allan G. Johnson argues in \"\" that accusations of man-hating have been used to put down feminists and to shift attention onto men, reinforcing a male-centered culture. Johnson asserts that culture offers no comparable anti-male ideology to misogyny and that \"people often confuse men as individuals with men as a dominant and privileged category of people\" and that \"[given the] reality of women's oppression, male privilege, and men's enforcement of both, it's hardly surprising that \"every\" woman should have moments where she resents or even hates 'men'\".\n\nMarc A. Ouellette argues in \"International Encyclopedia of Men and Masculinities\" that \"misandry lacks the systemic, transhistoric, institutionalized, and legislated antipathy of misogyny\"; in his view, assuming a parallel between misogyny and misandry overly simplifies relations of gender and power.\n\nAnthropologist David D. Gilmore also argues that misogyny is a \"near-universal phenomenon\" and that there is no male equivalent to misogyny, further defending manifestations of perceived misandry as not \"hatred of men's traditional male role\" and a \"culture of machismo\". He argues, misandry is \"different from the intensely \"ad feminam\" aspect of misogyny that targets women no matter what they believe or do\".\n\nClassics professor Froma Zeitlin of Princeton University discussed misandry in her article titled \"Patterns of Gender in Aeschylean Drama: Seven against Thebes and the Danaid Trilogy\". She writes:\n\nLiterary critic Harold Bloom argued that even though the word misandry is relatively unheard of in literature it is not hard to find implicit, even explicit, misandry. In reference to the works of Shakespeare Bloom argued \"I cannot think of one instance of misogyny whereas I would argue that misandry is a strong element. Shakespeare makes perfectly clear that women in general have to marry down and that men are narcissistic and not to be trusted and so forth. On the whole, he gives us a darker vision of human males than human females.\"\n\nRacialized misandry occurs in both \"high\" and \"low\" culture and literature. For instance, African-American men have often been disparagingly portrayed as either infantile or as eroticized and hyper-masculine, depending on prevailing cultural stereotypes.\n\nCritic of mainstream feminism Christina Hoff Sommers has described Eve Ensler's play \"The Vagina Monologues\" as misandric in that \"there are no admirable males ... the play presents a rogues’ gallery of male brutes, sadists, child-molesters, genital mutilators, gang rapists and hateful little boys\" which she finds out of step with the reality that \"most men are not brutes. They are not oppressors\".\n\nJulie M. Thompson, a feminist author, connects misandry with envy of men, in particular \"penis envy\", a term coined by Sigmund Freud in 1908, in his theory of female sexual development. Nancy Kang has discussed \"the misandric impulse\" in relation to the works of Toni Morrison.\n\nIn his book, \"Gender and Judaism: The Transformation of Tradition\", Harry Brod, a Professor of Philosophy and Humanities in the Department of Philosophy and Religion at the University of Northern Iowa, writes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4881579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4881579", "title": "Myopia Hunt Club", "text": "Myopia Hunt Club\n\nMyopia Hunt Club is a foxhunting and private country club in the northeastern United States, located in South Hamilton, Massachusetts, northeast of Boston. In the early years of the U.S. Open, the club hosted it four times: 1898, 1901, 1905, and 1908.\n\nMyopia Hunt Club was founded in 1882 by J. Murray Forbes. The golf course was designed and built by Herbert C. Leeds in 1894 and he continued working at the Club for over 30 years. Leeds tied for seventh place in the 1898 U.S. Open held at Myopia Hunt Club. His familiarity with the course was no doubt a factor in his ability to finish so high on the leaderboard in the tournament.\n\nThe name \"Myopia\" is due to some of its founding members having come from the Myopia Club in Winchester, Massachusetts, which had been founded by four brothers with poor vision, or myopia. Today, the Myopia Hunt Club is a drag hunt, meaning that the hounds follow a laid scent rather than live fox.\n\nWhen completed, Myopia Hunt Club measured 6,539 yards and Leeds made certain that golfers would encounter a multitude of challenging features, including tall mounds, deep bunkers, lightning-fast greens, blind shots requiring substantial carry, deep swales, punishing rough, plateaued greens, as well as a pond and paddock to avoid. So difficult was the course that in the 1901 U.S. Open not a single professional was able to break 80 in any round.\n\nMyopia also features one of the oldest continually running polo fields in the nation. Gibney Field, formerly used as a pasture, was mowed and used for practice in the summer of 1888. That fall, Myopia held its first official match against the Dedham Polo and Country Club. In 1890, Myopia became one of seven charter members of the Polo Association, now the United States Polo Association. Of those seven original clubs, Myopia is one of two still in existence; Meadowbrook on Long Island is the other. It is the only one that still uses its original field.\n\nGibney Field is not, however, the oldest continuously used polo field in the nation. That honor goes to Aiken Polo Club's Whitney Field—in Aiken, South Carolina—which was first used for polo in a gala exhibition match in 1882. Aiken Polo Club joined the Polo Association in 1899. Polo is still played at Myopia throughout the summer season, from Memorial Day until Columbus Day. Sunday afternoon games at 3 p.m. are open to the public for a small fee. In 1902 a real tennis court was opened at the Myopia Hunt Club, but has since been converted to other uses.\n\nMyopia Hunt Club is the only course in the United States to have been listed by \"Golf Magazine\" as having two of the United States's top 100 signature holes, Myopia's fourth and ninth.\n\nThe U.S. Open was held at the Club in 1898, 1901, 1905, and 1908. The 72-hole winning score in 1901 by Willie Anderson, one of only four four-time champions, was 331, a record high that still stands today. He defeated Alex Smith in an 18-hole playoff, 85 to 86, his highest 18-hole score of the tournament. The first nine was completed in 1896, but the second nine was not finished until 1901, so the 1898 U.S. Open was actually played over eight rounds of nine holes.<br>\n\nFrom 1995–2005, the course underwent a series of major improvements under the leadership of Club president Michael Greene. Greene, along with Captain of Golf Steve Warhover (and with the consent of the voting members of the Club), lengthened the course with several new tees. These were installed on the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 10th, 11th, 15th, and 18th holes. In addition, many trees throughout the course were removed and replaced with traditional mounds, better fitting the historic design of Herbert Corey Leeds.\n\nMyopia Hunt Club was the home course of the late novelist and golf writer John Updike.\n\nThe holes on the course are all named on the scorecard, with most of the names pertaining to a geographic signifier on a particular hole:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25987039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25987039", "title": "Nicholas Bain", "text": "Nicholas Bain\n\nNicholas Bain (1824December 15, 1854), also known as Beheehan or Behan, was an American farmworker who murdered three people on Long Island in 1854, a crime that gained much notoriety. The author Charles Dickens commented on this crime in his \"Household Narrative of Current Events\" periodical.\n\nIn May 1854, Bain had been working for James and Francis Wickham on their farm near Cutchogue, New York for the past two years. Bain asked Ellen Holland, a female servant at the farm, to marry him, but she rejected his proposal. An enraged Bain then threatened her. Holland later discovered that Bain had stolen $10 from her room and she complained to James Wickham. He fired Bain on June 1, 1854.\n\nAround midnight that same day, Bain murdered the Wickhams and Stephen Winston, a young servant boy, at the house with an axe. Bain first killed the boy downstairs while he slept, then murdered the couple in their bedroom after a violent struggle. Bain later said that his intent was to rape Holland and then kill the two owners out of revenge. However, Holland and another servant girl had fled the house to get help. Authorities quickly identified Bain as the killer because he left his hat and distinctively large bloody footprints at the murder scene.\n\nAccording to his confession, Bain's plan after the murders was to take the ferry that day from Long Island to New London, CT and then catch a train to New York City. However, a crowd near the dock made him fear capture. His next plan was to take a train on Long Island to New York, but he was unable to hop onto a box car. Desperate at this point, Bain went into a swamp to hide. That evening he went to the house of a fellow Irishman in the area to get food, but the man attempted to detain Bain. However, Bain escaped and ran back into the woods.\n\nOn June 6, after an extensive manhunt with 1,000 searchers from towns all around Suffolk County, New York, Bain was found and arrested in the woods near Cutchogue. Sheriff's deputies had to draw their weapons to prevent an angry crowd from immediately lynching him. While receiving medical treatment for a wound, Bain confessed to all three murders. He was later convicted and then hanged on December 15, 1854.\n"}
{"id": "1703440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703440", "title": "Novelty item", "text": "Novelty item\n\nA novelty item is an object which is specifically designed to serve no practical purpose, and is sold for its uniqueness, humor, or simply as something new (hence \"novelty\", or newness). The term also applies to practical items with fanciful or nonfunctional additions, such as novelty slippers. The term is normally applied to small objects, and is generally not used to describe larger items such as roadside attractions. Items may have an advertising or promotional purpose, or be a souvenir.\n\nThis term covers a range of small manufactured goods, such as collectables, gadgets and executive toys. Novelty items are generally devices that do not primarily have a practical function. Toys for adults are often classed as novelties. Some products have a brief period as a novelty item when they are actually new, only to become an established, commonly used product, such as the Hula Hoop or the Frisbee.\n\nOthers may have an educational element, such as Crooke's radiometer, Newton's cradle or the drinking bird, often popular as an executive toy. Sex toys are often described as novelty items (varying from this definition, as they do serve a practical purpose), and some products sold in sex shops may not have any practical sexual function, if operating primarily as a humorous gift, such as sex dice. Some food products may be considered novelty items, especially when first introduced, such as deep-fried Mars bars.\n\nThe French mathematician and astronomer Pierre Hérigone (1580–1643) describes a novelty item that was a camera obscura in the form of a goblet. Hérigone's device was constructed so that the user could spy on others while taking a drink. Its 45-degree mirror had a stylized opening for the lens and the lid bore a magnifying lens at the top.\n\nLenticular printing was developed in the 1940s, and is used extensively in the production of novelty items. Paper clothing, which has some practical purpose, was briefly novel in the United States in the 1960s.\nOne of the more popular novelty items in recent history was the singing Big Mouth Billy Bass, manufactured by Gemmy Industries. It is estimated that over 20 million original pieces were sold in 12 months during 2000 and 2001.\nNovelty items based on mathematical objects, such as Klein bottles and Penrose triangles, have been manufactured. Models of Möbius strips are sometimes made in place of regular bands, such as rings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2722912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2722912", "title": "Offences Against the Person Act 1861", "text": "Offences Against the Person Act 1861\n\nThe Offences against the Person Act 1861 (24 & 25 Vict c 100) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. It consolidated provisions related to offences against the person (an expression, which, in particular, includes offences of violence) from a number of earlier statutes into a single Act. For the most part these provisions were, according to the draftsman of the Act, incorporated with little or no variation in their phraseology. It is one of a group of Acts sometimes referred to as the criminal law consolidation Acts 1861. It was passed with the object of simplifying the law. It is essentially a revised version of an earlier consolidation Act, the Offences against the Person Act 1828 (and the equivalent Irish Act), incorporating subsequent statutes.\n\nAlthough it has been substantially amended, it continues to be the foundation for prosecuting personal injury, short of murder, in the courts of England and Wales. The Act was also adopted in British possessions. For example, New Zealand adopted the Act in 1866.\n\nIn England and Wales and in Northern Ireland, the sexual offences under the Act have all been repealed. For legislation referring to sexual offences, see the Sexual Offences Act 2003 and the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008. In Northern Ireland, the 1861 Act continues to be the basis of a ban on abortion.\n\nThe Act as originally drafted listed specific methods whereby harm might be caused. For example, section 18 originally included an offence of shooting which could be committed with any of the specified intents. Sections 11 to 15 specified various means by which a person might attempt to commit murder.\n\nIn some cases, these reflected political issues then of great significance. For example, the Fenians were promoting their political case by leaving barrels of explosives in public places. Hence, sections 28 to 30 and 64 specifically address the problem, whether injury results or not. Similarly, children were throwing stones at passing railway trains, and these provisions remain in force.\n\nAs originally enacted, the Act had 79 sections. In England and Wales, 37 sections remain in force, namely sections 4, 5, 9, 10, 16 to 18, 20 to 38, 44, 45, 47, 57 to 60, 64, 65, 68 and 78. Of those, only sections 25, 34 to 36 and 78 have not been either partially repealed or otherwise amended. Different subsets of its provisions remain in force in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nSee the Criminal Justice Act 2003 for further provisions about sentencing for manslaughter and for offences under sections 4 and 16 to 47 of this Act.\n\nSections 1 to 3 dealt with the death penalty for murder and have been repealed.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the references to murder in these sections were changed to references to capital murder by section 15 of the Criminal Justice Act 1964. They were repealed by section 9(1) of, and the second schedule to, the Criminal Justice Act 1990. But the repeal of section 1 did not affect the operation of sections 64 to 68.(s.9(2))\n\nThis section replaced the corresponding provision in section 3 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828 (9 Geo 4 c 31) and section 4 of the corresponding Irish Act (10 Geo 4 c 34).\n\nThis section provided that the body of every person executed for murder was to be buried within the precincts of the last prison in which he had been confined, and that his sentence was to direct that this should happen. It replaced the corresponding provision in section 16 of the Anatomy Act 1832 (as amended by section 1 of the next mentioned Act) and replaced section 2 of the Hanging in Chains Act 1834 (4 & 5 Will 4 c 26).\n\nThe penalty for offences under this section was increased by article 5(1) of the Criminal Law (Amendment) (Northern Ireland) Order 1977, but not in relation to offences \"committed before the commencement\" of that order (art.5(3)).\n\nThis section creates the offence of soliciting to murder.\n\nThis section creates the offence of conspiracy to murder in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe repeal of as much of this section as related to the offence of conspiracy to murder for England and Wales was consequential on the codification of conspiracy by Part I of the Criminal Law Act 1977. The effect of this section, in relation to conspiracy to commit murder abroad, was preserved by section 1(4) of that Act.\n\nThe repeal of as much of this section as related to the offence of conspiracy to murder for Northern Ireland was consequential on the codification of conspiracy by Part IV of the Criminal Attempts and Conspiracy (Northern Ireland) Order 1983 (S.I. 1983/1120 (N.I. 13)).\n\nThis section now provides that a person convicted of manslaughter in English law is liable to imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nIn England and Wales it now reads:\n\nThe words \"or to pay\" to the end were repealed by Part I of Tenth Schedule to the Criminal Justice Act 1948. The other words were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1892.\n\nThis means imprisonment for life: See section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953 and section 11(2) of the Criminal Law Act, 1997.\n\nSections 6 to 8 have been repealed. They respectively dealt with the form of the indictment for murder and manslaughter, with excusable homicide and with petty treason.\n\nSection 6 replaced section 4 of the Criminal Procedure Act 1851 (14 & 15 Vict c 100). This section was repealed for the Republic of Ireland on 22 August 1924.\n\nSection 7 replaced section 10 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1828.\n\nSection 8 replaced section 2 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1828.\n\nMurder or manslaughter abroad. Section 9 gives the courts in England, Wales and Ireland extra-territorial jurisdiction over homicides committed by British subjects overseas. (Note however the restricted definition of \"subject\" under section 3 of the British Nationality Act 1948.) Section 10 gives these courts jurisdiction over fatal acts committed by British subjects overseas where the death occurs in England, Wales or Ireland, and jurisdiction over fatal acts committed in England, Wales or Ireland by anyone, including aliens, where the death occurs abroad. (The word \"criminally\" in that section has been held to exclude fatal acts done by aliens overseas although the death occurs in England, Wales or Ireland, since such acts are not punishable under the criminal law.)\n\nSections 9 and 10 respectively replace sections 7 and 8 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828. Section 10 was first enacted in 1728/29 by \"2 Geo 2 c 21\".\n\nSections 11 to 15 dealt with attempts to murder and have been repealed. See now the Criminal Attempts Act 1981.\n\nSection 11 – Administering poison or wounding or causing grievous bodily harm with intent to murder\n\nThis section replaced section 2 of the Offences against the Person Act 1837 (7 Will 4 & 1 Vict c 85).\n\nSection 12 – Destroying or damaging a building with gunpowder with intent to murder\n\nThis section replaced section 2 of the Arson Act 1846 (9 & 10 Vict c 25) (Malicious injuries by fire)\n\nSection 13 – Setting fire to or casting away a ship with intent to murder\n\nSection 14 – Attempting to administer poison, or shooting or attempting to shoot, or attempting to drown, suffocate or strangle with intent to murder\n\nThis section replaced section 3 of the Offences against the Person Act 1837.\n\nSection 15 – Attempting to commit murder by any other means\n\nSection 16\n\nThe making of a threat to kill is an offence wherein the defendant intends the victim to fear it will be carried out. It is immaterial whether it is premeditated or said in anger.\n\nAlthough the normal maximum sentence is ten years, offenders deemed to present a \"significant risk\" of \"serious harm\" to the public can now receive a life sentence under the Criminal Justice Act 2003.\n\nOther threats of violence may be prosecuted summarily under section 4 of the Public Order Act 1986.\n\nThis section, as originally enacted, replaced the offence of sending, delivering or uttering a letter or writing threatening to kill or murder under section 1 of the 10 & 11 Vict c 66 (1847); the other offences under that section being consolidated elsewhere.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, this section was substituted by article 4 of the Criminal Law (Amendment) (Northern Ireland) Order 1977 (S.I. 1977/1249 (N.I. 16)).\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, this section has been repealed and replaced by section 5 of the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, sections 16 to 26 and 28 to 34 of this Act were repealed by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997\n\nSection 17 – Impeding a person endeavouring to save himself or another from shipwreck\n\nShipping was the lifeblood of the Empire, thus, specific offences to protect seamen were common.\n\nWounding and grievous bodily harm\n\nThe offences under sections 18 and 20 of this Act are discussed in detail in the article grievous bodily harm.\n\nThis section creates the offences of wounding and causing grievous bodily harm, with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, or to resist arrest. It is punishable with life imprisonment.\n\nThis section replaces section 4 of the Offences against the Person Act 1837.\n\nCharges under this section are, under CPS guidance, reserved for crimes with very high intent which cause serious (potentially life-threatening harm) or showed malicious intent and caused really serious life-threatening or life-altering harm. The former offences under this section of shooting and attempting to shoot with intent have been repealed. It is also no longer possible to charge the remaining offences of wounding and causing grievous bodily harm as having been committed with intent to maim, disfigure or disable as the relevant words have been repealed.\n\nSection 19\n\nThis section defined the expression \"loaded arms\". The repeal of this section was consequential on the repeal of the offences of shooting and attempting to shoot with intent under sections 14 and 18 above.\n\nThis section creates the offences of wounding and inflicting grievous bodily harm. The CPS guidance prefers this section to be used instead of section 18 when the harm done was more consequential rather than intentional, and/or the wounding was less serious. These are therefore less serious than the offences created by section 18 and carry a maximum prison sentence of 5 years.\n\nThis section replaces section 4 of the Prevention of Offences Act 1851 (14 & 15 Vict c 19). The offence of wounding either with or without a weapon or instrument under this section replaces the offence of stabbing, cutting or wounding under that section.\n\nGarrotting, etc. – Administering chloroform, etc.\n\nSections 21 and 22: Attempting to choke, &c., to commit or assist in the committing of any indictable offence. Certain forms of attack have always been viewed with particular horror and the use of strangulation or drugs to render someone unconscious with a view to committing a crime require special treatment. Contemporary crime including date rape following the use of hypnotic drugs such as Flunitrazepam show that little has changed save that where the intended offence is of a sexual nature, separate legislation applies (see Sexual Offences Act 2003).\n\nSection 22 replaces section 3 of the Prevention of Offences Act 1851.\n\nPoisoning\n\nSections 23 and 24 cover the insidious forms of attack based on administering poisons or other dangerous chemicals and substances intending to injure another. Although rarely used today, the offences remain available should the specific circumstances arise, e.g. sending a package containing a dangerous substance to an embassy.\n\nSection 25 permits a jury to find a person charged with an offence under section 23 guilty of an offence under 24.\n\nSections 23 to 25 respectively replace sections 1 to 3 of the 23 & 24 Vict c 8 (1860) (unlawful administering of poison).\n\nSection 26 – Neglecting or causing bodily harm to servants\n\nThis section deals with the problem of neglect by an employer who failed to provide adequate food, clothing and accommodation for staff and servants. It is punishable on conviction on indictment with imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years.\n\nThis section replaces section 1 of the Poor Law (Apprentices, &c.) Act 1851 (14 & 15 Vict c 11).\n\nThe offence of assault under that section has been replaced by one of doing or causing bodily harm.\n\nSee also the summary offence under section 6 of the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act 1875 which could be committed by neglecting to provide medical aid.\n\nSection 27 – Abandoning or exposing a child under the age of two\n\nThe offence is in practice obsolete, as it has been superseded by the offence of \"cruelty to persons under sixteen\" under section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933. The exception to this is that it can be committed by a person who does not have responsibility for the child within the meaning of the 1933 Act (assuming that such a person can \"unlawfully\" abandon or expose a child), and also by a person who is under sixteen.\n\nExplosives, etc.\n\nSections 28, 29, 30, and 64 created a range of criminal offences supplementing the Explosive Substances Act 1883 and the Explosives Act 1875. These remain in force, although the Criminal Damage Act 1971 covers all aspects of the resulting damage to property and the Terrorism Act 2000 deals with possession for terrorist purposes.\n\nSection 28 replaces section 3 of the Arson Act 1846 (malicious injuries by fire).\n\nSection 29 replaces section 4 of the Arson Act 1846.\n\nSection 30 replaces the corresponding offence under section 6 of that Act; the other offences under that section being consolidated elsewhere.\n\nSection 31 – Setting spring guns with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm\n\nThis section addresses the problem of those who wish to protect their property with hidden traps.\n\nThis section replaces sections 1 to 4 of the 7 & 8 Geo 4 c 18 (1827) (An Act to prohibit the setting of spring guns, mantraps and other engines calculated to destroy human life or inflict grievous bodily harm).\n\nCausing danger on railways\n\nSections 32 to 34 protect the railways from those who place obstructions on the line, throw stones at the passing trains, and generally endanger the passengers.\n\nSection 32 replaced the offence of attempting to endanger the safety of passengers under section 6 of the Prevention of Offences Act 1851; the other offence being consolidated elsewhere.\n\nSection 33 replaced section 7 of that Act.\n\nIn England and Wales and Northern Ireland this section creates the offence of causing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving. It is repealed in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nIn 1993, the Law Commission recommended that sections 36 and 37 and 39 and 40 be repealed. In 1980, the Criminal Law Revision Committee recommended that sections 42 to 45 be repealed.\n\nIn England and Wales and Northern Ireland, this section reads:\n\nRepeals\n\nThe words omitted at the end were repealed by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953.\n\nThis section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\n\"Divine service\"\n\nSee Matthews v King [1934] 1 KB 505, 50 TLR 62, 30 Cox 27\n\n\"Misdemeanor\"\n\nSee the Criminal Law Act 1967 and the Criminal Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1967.\n\nProposal for repeal\n\nIn 1985, the Law Commission said that this offence was no longer used and recommended that it be repealed.\n\nThis offence is triable only on indictment and punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.\n\nThis section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nThe marginal note to this section reads \"Assault with intent to commit felony, or on peace officers, &c.\" It is unreliable.\n\nThis section was repealed for Northern Ireland by section 7(3) of the Criminal Justice (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (Northern Ireland) 1968 (c.28) (N.I.). The offences of assault with intent to resist arrest and assaulting, etc. a peace officer under this section were replaced by section 7(1) of that Act.\n\nAssault with intent to resist arrest\n\nIn England and Wales, this section creates the offence of assault with intent to resist arrest and provides the penalty to which a person is liable on conviction of that offence on indictment.\n\nAssaulting, resisting or wifully obstructing a peace officer in the execution of his duty\n\nThis offence was repealed and replaced by section 51 of the Police Act 1964. An assault on a constable in the execution of his duty can now be prosecuted summarily under section 89(1) of the Police Act 1996.\n\nAssault with intent to commit felony\n\nThe repeal of this offence was consequential on the abolition of the distinction between felony and misdemeanour.\n\nImmediately before its repeal, in England and Wales, this section read:\n\nRepeals\n\nThe words \"and kept to hard labour\" were repealed for England and Wales by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and for Northern Ireland by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953.\n\nThis section was repealed as it applied to England and Wales by section 1(1) of, and Group 5 of Part I of Schedule 1 to, the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1989. It has not been replaced.\n\nThis section was repealed for the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nDerivation\n\nThis section was derived from the corresponding provision in section 26 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828, and replaced both that provision and section 2 of the 14 & 15 Vict c 92 (which applied to Ireland). The words in square brackets in the text of section 39 above are different from those in section 26 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828.\n\nThis offence was previously created by the Corn Trade Act 1737.\n\nMode of trial\n\nThis offence could be tried at quarter sessions.\n\nProposals for repeal\n\nIn 1980, the Criminal Law Revision Committee recommended that sections 39 and 40 be repealed.\n\nIn a joint report dated 7 April 1989, the Law Commission and the Scottish Law Commission said that, between them, the offences of common assault, battery and affray, and the offences under the Criminal Damage Act 1971, made adequate provision for the punishment of any conduct that amounted to an offence under either section 39 or section 40. They said that the Home Office agreed that sections 39 and 40 served no further useful purpose. They recommended that both sections be repealed.\n\nImmediately before its repeal, in England and Wales, this section read:\n\nRepeals\n\nThe words omitted were repealed for England and Wales by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and for Northern Ireland by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953.\n\nThis section was repealed as it applied England and Wales by section 1(1) of, and Group 5 of Part I of Schedule 1 to, the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1989. It has not been replaced.\n\nThis section was repealed for the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nDerivation\n\nThis section was derived from and replaced the corresponding provision in section 26 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828.\n\nThis offence was previously created by section 2 of the Shipping Offences Act 1793.\n\nAppeal\n\nThe 20 & 21 Vict c 43 provided that either party could appeal to one of the superior courts of common law if they were dissatisfied with the determination of the justices as being erroneous in point of law.\n\nProposals for repeal\n\nAs to the recommendations of the Criminal Law Revision Committee, Law Commission, and Scottish Law Commission, see the preceding section of this article.\n\nThe repeal of this section was consequential on the decriminalisation of trade unions. See the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1871 and the Trade Union Act 1871.\n\nIn England and Wales, this section has been repealed and has been replaced by section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988. The Criminal Law Act 1977, Schedule 6, increased the maximum fine to £200. (Entries relating to Offences Against the Person Act 1861 repealed by Criminal Justice Act 1988 (c. 33, SIF 39:1), s. 170, Sch. 8 para. 16, Sch. 16).\n\nSection 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 made the offence a summary only offences, and a person guilty of either assault or battery liable to a fine not exceeding level 5 (£5,000) on the standard scale and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, this section was substituted by section 23(1) of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953 (c.14) (N.I.). Section 23(2) of that Act provides that any reference to this section in section 46 of the Summary Jurisdiction Act (Northern Ireland) 1953, or in any other enactment, is to be construed as a reference to this section as amended by that Act. This provision is said to be for the removal of doubt.\n\nThis section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nThis section replaces section 1 of the Criminal Procedure Act 1853 (16 & 17 Vict c 30) (aggravated assaults upon women and children)\n\nIn England and Wales, this section has been repealed and has not been replaced. The Criminal Law Act 1977, Schedule 6, increased the maximum fine to £500.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, this section makes provision for the summary prosecution of aggravated assaults on women and children. The maximum fine for this offence was increased by section 60(2) of the Summary Jurisdiction and Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1935 (c.13) (N.I.)\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, this section was repealed by section 26 of, and the second schedule to, the Criminal Justice Act 1951 (No.2)\n\nSection 44 and 45\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, these sections was repealed by section 26 of, and the second schedule to, the Criminal Justice Act 1951 (No.2)\n\nSection 46\n\nThis section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nIn Queen's Printer copies of this Act, the marginal notes to this section read \"assault occasioning bodily harm\" and \"common assault\".\n\nThis section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nAssault occasioning actual bodily harm\n\nIn England and Wales, and in Northern Ireland, this section creates the offence of assault occasioning actual bodily harm and provides the penalty to which a person is liable on conviction of that offence on indictment.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland this offence has been replaced by the offence of assault causing harm under section 3 of the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nCommon assault\n\nIn England and Wales, the provision in this section relating to common assault has been repealed.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, this section provides that a person who is convicted on indictment of common assault is liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years. This penalty was substituted by virtue of article 4(2)(b) of the Criminal Justice (No.2) (Northern Ireland) Order 2004 and was previously imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year.\n\nThis section provided that a person guilty of rape was liable to be kept in penal servitude for life or for any term not less than three years or to be imprisoned (with or without hard labour) for any term not exceeding two years.\n\nIt was a revised version of section 16 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828, incorporating the non-textual amendments made to that section by section 3 of the Substitution of Punishments of Death Act 1841 (4 & 5 Vict c 56) and section 2 of the Penal Servitude Act 1857. It replaced section 16 of the 1828 Act and the corresponding provision in section 3 of the 1841 Act, which were repealed.\n\nIn England and Wales, this section was repealed and replaced by section 1(1) of the Sexual Offences Act 1956. In Northern Ireland, repeal of this section was consequential upon the codification of the law relating to sexual offences by the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008.\n\nThe expression 'illicit carnal connexion' means extramarital sexual intercourse.\n\nThis section replaced section 1 of the 12 & 13 Vict c 76 (1849) (procuring the defilement of women).\n\nThis section was repealed and replaced by section 2(1) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885\n\nSection 50 replaced section 17 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828 and the corresponding provision in section 3 of the Substitution of Punishments of Death Act 1841 (4 & 5 Vict c 56) and incorporated the non-textual amendment made by section 2 of the Penal Servitude Act 1857.\n\nSections 50 and 51 were repealed by section 2 of the Offences against the Person Act 1875. They were replaced by sections 3 and 4 of that Act (also replaced) which had a broader scope.\n\nIn England and Wales, this section was repealed and replaced by section 14(1) of the Sexual Offences Act 1956. In Northern Ireland, repeal of this section was consequential upon the codification of the law relating to sexual offences.\n\nSections 53 to 56 were repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nSections 53 and 54 created various offences of abduction, including:\n\nForcible abduction of any woman with intent to marry or carnally know her. This would be charged as the common law offences of kidnapping and false imprisonment, or rape, and/or human trafficking under the Sexual Offences Act 2003.\n\nIn England and Wales, section 53 was repealed and replaced by sections 17 and 18 of the Sexual Offences Act 1956.\nIn England and Wales, section 54 was repealed and replaced by section 17(1) of the Sexual Offences Act 1956.\nIn Northern Ireland, repeal of these sections was consequential upon the codification of the law relating to sexual offences.\n\nIn England and Wales, this section was repealed and replaced by section 20 of the Sexual Offences Act 1956. In Northern Ireland, repeal of this section was consequential upon the codification of the law relating to sexual offences.\n\nSection 56 created the offence of child stealing. In England and Wales, it has been repealed and replaced by the Child Abduction Act 1984.\n\nSection 57 – Bigamy\n\nThis section creates the offence of bigamy. It replaces section 22 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828.\n\nSection 58 - offence of using drugs or instruments to procure abortion, replaced section 6 of the Offences against the Person Act 1837, and provides:\n\nSection 59 - offence of supplying or procuring poison or instruments for the purpose of criminal abortion, and provides:\n\nFor the purposes of sections 58 and 59, and any rule of law relating to the procurement of abortion, anything done with intent to procure a woman's miscarriage (or in the case of a woman carrying more than one foetus, her miscarriage of any foetus) is unlawfully done unless authorised by section 1 of the Abortion Act 1967 and, in the case of a woman carrying more than one foetus, anything done with intent to procure her miscarriage of any foetus is authorised by the said section 1 if the ground for termination of the pregnancy specified in subsection (1)(d) of the said section 1 applies in relation to any foetus and the thing is done for the purpose of procuring the miscarriage of that foetus, or any of the other ground for termination of the pregnancy specified in the said section 1 applies.\n\nSee the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nThe offences under section 58 and 59 are indictable-only offences.\n\nAn offence under section 58 is punishable with imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nAn offence under section 59 is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years.\n\nSections 58 and 59 continue to apply in England and Wales and Northern Ireland. They were repealed as to the Republic of Ireland by section 5 of the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013.\n\nSection 60 – Concealing the birth of a child\n\nThis section creates the offence of concealing the birth of a child. It replaces section 14 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828.\n\nSection 61 – Buggery\n\nThis section abolished the death penalty for buggery, and provided instead that a person convicted of buggery was liable to be kept in penal servitude for life or for any term not less than ten years. The sentence authorised by this section was modified by section 1 of the Penal Servitude Act 1891 and section 1 of the Criminal Justice Act 1948.\n\nThis section replaced section 15 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828.\n\nIn England and Wales, section 61 was repealed and replaced by section 12(1) of the Sexual Offences Act 1956.\n\nSection 62 – attempted buggery – assault with intent to commit buggery – indecent assault upon a male\n\nIn England and Wales section 62 was repealed and replaced by sections 15(1) and 16(1) of the Sexual Offences Act 1956.\n\nIn Northern Ireland section 62 was found to be incompatible with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and was repealed by the Sexual Offences Act 2003.\n\nSection 63 defined the expression \"carnal knowledge\". In England and Wales, this section was repealed and replaced by section 44 of the Sexual Offences Act 1956.\n\nSection 64: This section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nSection 65: search warrants for weapons, explosives and other articles intended for use in committing offences. This section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nSections 66 to 79 dealt with supplemental matters.\n\nSection 68 provides that indictable offences under the Act committed within the jurisdiction of the Admiralty are subject to the punishments to which they would be subject if they had been committed in England. If this provision was not redundant in 1861, it is now.\n\nSection 73: This section was repealed in the Republic of Ireland by section 31 of, and the Schedule to, the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997.\n\nThe repeal of sections replaced by this Act was effected by the Criminal Statutes Repeal Act 1861 (24 & 25 Vict. c.95)\n\nOffences Against the Person Act\n\n"}
{"id": "37889069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37889069", "title": "Open Water Wisdom", "text": "Open Water Wisdom\n\nOpen Water Wisdom is a community water activity safety program that was spearheaded by The Royal Life Saving Society of Canada and The Canadian Red Cross. It is dedicated to bringing awareness to recreational water safety issues nationally and in hundreds of remote communities across Canada.\n\nChildren and youth are at higher risk for water injury and drowning, most especially in Canada’s remote northern, rural, Aboriginal and coastal communities. This is partly because many of Canada’s communities sit next to open water and at most times of the year the water is cold. There are also indications that several cultural issues can contribute to higher drowning rates in some parts of the country.\n\nIn 2011, Lifesaving Canada and The Canadian Red Cross were given funding by The Public Health Agency of Canada in support of the Open Water Wisdom initiative. In 2012, the campaign released several national radio Public Service Announcements about how to stay safe around open water during summer months.\n\nThe campaign has targeted over 250 communities across the country, with a special focus on youth 19 years of age or younger. Open Water Wisdomʼs activities are rooted in providing local community champions with lifejackets and resource training kits about cold water safety issues. Local champions provide water activity safety training to their communities based on the materials and resources supplied to participating communities. The official objectives of the campaign are to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11633784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11633784", "title": "Ozone Park Boys", "text": "Ozone Park Boys\n\nThe Ozone Park Boys, also known as \"Liberty Posse\" and \"The Young Guns\" are a Gambino crime family Mafia crew based in Ozone Park, Queens. They are infamous for their massive number of crimes, including an illegal $30 million-a-year sports gambling enterprise.\n\nRonald Trucchio, nicknamed \"Ronnie One-Arm\" due to a childhood accident that left him unable to use his right arm, is the \"Caporegime\" of the crew. He identified potential victims and helped plan crimes. He also acted as an intermediary with other organized crime interests. Barry Burke,also known as \"The Mic\" a Whitestone Queens native and a known captain of the crew, played a significant role in organizing and enforcing rackets in both Boston and South Boston and even as far north as Maine. Along with Burke, Kevin \"Capone\" Antinuche are currently the alleged crew leaders.\n\nOther notable members include Robert \"Bucks\" Bucholz, Peter \"Bud\" Zuccaro, Joey Carr, Frank Roccaforte, Joseph Kondrotos, Valentino Nucci, Darrin Sirrota, James \"Jimmy\" Unknown, Dave Prevete,Todd Patrick Mitchell,Dave 'Three Fingers' Lortal, Seb 'Fringe' Latour and Edward \"Eddie Wrecker\" Callegari, and Alexander \"Youngblood\" Colon\n\nSince as early as 1986, this crew has been responsible for auto theft and \"chop shop\" operations, book making, racketeering, murder, robbery, arms trafficking, arson, assault, bank robbery, extortion, kidnapping, drug trafficking, tampering with witnesses, retaliating against witnesses, credit card fraud, identity theft, illegal gambling, interstate travel in aid of racketeering activities, interference with commerce by threats and violence, interstate transportation of stolen property, insurance fraud, mail fraud, tax evasion, wire fraud, and thefts from interstate shipments.\n\nThey organized theft of automobile and automobile parts throughout the New York metropolitan area. \"The crew members stole specific cars and car parts on order and dismantled the stolen cars in several chop shops in the New York area\", the government said, adding that the group also used the shops to facilitate credit card fraud, insurance fraud and robbery conspiracy.\n\nCrew members stole credit cards and account information from the U.S. mail and thereafter purchased consumer goods from merchants in New York and Florida. \"The crew participated in violent armed robberies of businesses and individuals during which victims were kidnapped and assaulted\", the government alleged.\n\nMembers of the criminal crew traveled from New York to South Florida to commit robberies and traffic drugs, as well as perform credit card fraud and illegal weapons sales. In 1999 Damian Ely Bachovacchi was sentenced to five years for interstate drug trafficking, weapons possession and witness tampering. He was released on parole after serving only thirty-four months leading many to believe that Bachovacchi had an \"inside man\", but such rumors dissipated once it became apparent that the government was still attempting to find evidence on him. Although he was quickly released, the government has tried many attempts to indict him, none being successful. In 2004 the Federal government had a sealed indictment for Bachovacchi which was never handed down due to a \"sudden\" disappearance of suspects. To this day literally hundreds of files that are linked to The Ozone Park Boys / Young guns remain unsolved. The government also said the crew transported stolen property from Florida to New York and also engaged in numerous armed bank robberies in the New York area.\n\nIn 1995, nightclub bouncer Vincent D'Angola and his massage-therapist girlfriend, Jamie Schneider, were found dead in D'Angola's Fort Lauderdale apartment. The next day, the bullet-riddled body of Little League coach Mark Rizzuto was found in Boca Raton. Federal and local authorities have linked the crew to these three unsolved South Florida murders.\n\n\"The Trucchio organization\" operated two separate wirerooms, first in the basement of an attached, one-family house at 149-29 122nd Street and thereafter in a third-floor apartment at 89-07 North Conduit Avenue, both in Ozone Park .\n\nThe crew has been in operation for over two decades.\n\nIn December 2000, Trucchio and his son, Alphonse, were arrested along with most of the crew for operating a $30 million-a-year sports gambling enterprise in Ozone Park. Trucchio was also charged with failing to file New York State tax returns for the years 1999, 2000 and 2001.\n\nRoccaforte allegedly was the clerk in the gambling operation who answered phones at the wirerooms, recorded wagers called in by bettors and recorded those wagers on tally sheets.\n\nIn July 2004, a new indictment was instated against the mobsters, claiming that while behind bars in prison, they made weapons and planned to attack people at a court hearing. They also claimed that the mobsters planned hits on several prosecutors and witnesses against them.\n\nIn 2006, Ronald Trucchio was sentenced to life in prison.\n\nIn 2017, former Ozone Park Boys leader Gennaro \"Jerry\" Bruno was sentenced to 21 years in prison for murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "33683733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33683733", "title": "Peasant economics", "text": "Peasant economics\n\nPeasant economics is an area of economics in which a wide variety of economic approaches ranging from the neoclassical to the marxist are used to examine the political economy of the peasantry. The defining feature of the peasants are that they are typically seen to be only partly integrated into the market economy - an economy which, in societies with a significant peasant population, is typically found to have many imperfect, incomplete or missing markets. Peasant economics treats peasants as something different from other farmers as they are not assumed to be simply small profit maximizing farmers; by contrast, peasant economics covers a wide range of different theories of peasant household behavior. These include various assumptions about the maximization of profits, risk aversion, drudgery aversion, and sharecropping. The assumptions, logic, and predictions of these theories are examined and the impact of subsistence is typically found to have important implications in terms of producers decisions about supply, consumption and price. Chayanov was an early proponent of the importance of understanding peasant behaviour arguing that peasants would work as hard as they needed in order to meet their subsistence needs, but had no incentive beyond those needs and therefore would slow and stop working once they were met. This principle, the consumption-labour-balance principle, implies that the peasant household will increase its work until it meets (balances) the needs (consumption) of the household. A possible implication of this view of peasant societies is that they will not develop without some external, added factor. Peasant economics has been seen as being an important area of study by some development economists, agricultural sociologists, and anthropologists.\n"}
{"id": "38859693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38859693", "title": "Pet ownership in Japan", "text": "Pet ownership in Japan\n\nOver the last few decades, pet ownership in Japan has gradually moved from a predominantly utilitarian function to a concept that more fully incorporates pets into the family system. In the minority of cases, pets are now considered to be family members. To many Japanese, pets are as well loved as children, and may even serve as a substitute for those who choose to forgo child-rearing.\n\nIn the context of spiritual hierarchy, pets occupy the space directly below humans, but above all other animals and forms of life. This position is not clearly defined, leaving many aspects of pet ownership open to interpretation, including the practice of keeping and caring for pets, as well as the correct means of caring for them after death. This position within the family is presented through various forms within the everyday flow of contemporary life, spiritual expression, memorialization, and burial rites of Japanese pets.\n\nPets have been increasing in numbers throughout Japan. Providing a convenient way for companionship without having the demands that a child would, pets are a popular alternative for people who do not have the time required to raise a baby. Although it is not by any means definitive, studies reflect a trend showing that adopting pets into the family in lieu of children has become increasingly common. Currently, “estimates place the number of pets above the number of children under the age of fifteen.” \n\nThe Japanese “pet boom” can be traced back to 2003 where it was estimated that the combined number of dogs and cats in Japan have outnumbered the number of children. The estimated number of pets and children under 16 in Japan was 19.2 and 17.9 million respectively in 2003, and 23.2 million to 17 million in 2009.\n\nAlthough Japan’s crowded environment makes for a not so pet-friendly country, Japanese have found ways to incorporate their pets into their everyday lives. One method is to choose small dog breeds as their companions. Some common dog breeds for Japanese families are chihuahuas, miniature dachshunds, and toy poodles. The most common reason for choosing small breed dogs are the lack of space, and easier cleaning.\n\nAlthough small dogs are preferred, one of the most popular dog breeds in Japan is the Shiba Inu, which can grow to be two feet tall and weigh up to 25 pounds. Some Japanese prefer the Shiba Inu because they are family-friendly and have a lifespan of up to 15 years, making the Shiba Inu a long-lived companion. The Japanese also have an even larger breed unique to Japan, the Akita, popularized by the story of Hachikō.\n\nBecause of the declining birthrate and aging population in Japan, there are an increasing number of households in Japan with pets and no children. Since some families have no children, they instead pamper and lavish their pets like they would do their own children. Businesses in Japan such as cat cafes, dog spas, and restaurants that allow pets to sit down at a table and eat with the rest of the family have been booming since 2004. Some pets in Japan even have the luxury of their own pet closets filled with expensive couture clothing from Chanel to Gucci designed specifically for pets.\n\nPets in Japan are not only for companionship. Therapy dogs play a huge role in helping the disabled, comforting hospital patients, and as companions for the elderly. Some organizations in Japan, such as the Tokyo-based International Therapy Dog Association train dogs with no owners into therapy dogs and send them to various nursing homes and hospitals throughout Japan. One such dog was the basis for a 2004 film Walking With Dogs: Chirori and Tamaru, where the main character, Chirori, instead of being put to sleep, was discovered by a Japanese singer and was trained to help the elderly. The story of Chirori was so inspiring, there is now a statue in her honor.\n\nAccording to Japanese folklore, there is a darker side of pet spirituality in Shinto, known as the Inugami, which literally translates to dog god. Inugami are dark dangerous spirits which are conjured up through dark rituals involving the sacrifice of a common pet dog. In a way similar to shikigami, these rituals allow the dog’s tortured spirit to be under the control of whoever summoned it. The Inugami can then be used by its owner to do their bidding and curse other people or even possess them and bring misfortune. The idea of this type of spirit could be linked to the fact that pets in Japanese culture were traditionally kept for utilitarian purposes as opposed to companionship.\n\nJapanese traditional folk religion and Buddhism have significantly influenced the death rites of pets, and their memorialization thereafter. To some extent, Western culture and Christianity have also made an impact. However, the aspects present in such procedures vary across Japan and rely heavily upon the beliefs, traditions, and circumstances of each individual family.\nTraditionally, pets were not often considered to be members of the family. Although there are some examples of pets being memorialized and given posthumous names during the mid-nineteenth century, there are few records of such efforts and those that exist have been attributed to the elite samurai class. During this time, most dogs and cats were considered community residents and did not inhabit any one individual home. Upon a community animal’s death, folk tradition required that special care be taken of the deceased animal’s remains, in order to protect the entire village from vengeful spirits. The concept of vengeful spirits comes from the belief that “small animals such as cats and dogs were believed to be able to travel freely between the here-and-now and the afterworld, and to possess the power to wreak spiritual vengeance (tatari) on people”. In order to ensure that the living would not be harmed, and in some instances to enlist good luck or protection from the animal spirit, special procedures were required, such as burial in a specific location of significance or inclusion of certain items within the animal’s grave. If the correct process was followed, the village could rest assured that they would not be troubled by the deceased spirit.\n\nBuddhist practices, specifically ancestral memorialization, have directly influenced the death rites and rituals performed for pets in Japan. However, “there are no scriptures specifically for animals, let alone pets” in Buddhist doctrine. Thus, memorialization of pets is left open to diverse interpretation. One central disagreement among spiritualists revolves around the Buddhist cycle of rebirth. Some individuals claim that it is indeed possible, through proper care during life and correct memorialization after death, for a beloved pet to eventually be reborn as a fellow human, thus making enlightenment achievable. Others feel that pets are only capable of being reborn as pets. Often, Buddhist clerics tend to allow families to decide for themselves what process they would like to follow. As different temples interpret the rites in different ways, they often combine various elements or omit some entirely.\n\nOver the last few decades, pet cemeteries have increased in popularity, particularly within crowded urban areas. In rural areas, many pets are buried directly in the ground “in the hills outside the village, creating a harmony between the decay of the pet’s body and the fading away of memories and grief”. In more urban, metropolitan areas, pet owners generally choose cremation for their lost companions. They can then choose to inter them in individual or communal graves, or display the remains in columbariums On occasion, pet owners request to be buried with their deceased pets, and some choose to conduct the rites just as they would be conducted for a human. However, most “actual practices reinforce boundaries that place pets in a marginal position and delineate their liminal status within human society”. In contrast with the traditional folk beliefs, the majority of pet owners no longer believe that the spirits of their deceased pets will cause them harm as a result of their choice of memorialization. Moreover, the rites and rituals serve as a means of easing the grief and loss of the living. As a result, “the significance of animal funerals in Japan has shifted from prayer for the animal soul to a way of expressing grief by the pet owner\". Deceased pets are now more commonly remembered as members of the family, and are often memorialized at the family altar and become a part of the family’s ancestry.\n\nIn contemporary society, elements of Western thought and Christianity have also become interwoven into burial practices of deceased pets. One example of this influence is found in the image of a “Rainbow Bridge,” a concept very much like the Western ideal of heaven. The Rainbow Bridge is described as a utopian space where the deceased pet’s spirit remains until the death of their owner, at which time both spirits travel together into the realm of heaven. This concept further emphasizes the growing familial connection between pets and their owners in contemporary Japan.\n"}
{"id": "49093343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49093343", "title": "Qanurli", "text": "Qanurli\n\nQanurli is a comedy series broadcast on the Canadian Aboriginal Peoples Television Network. The show revolves around Inuk Qablunaaq (Anguti Johnston) and Nipangi Huittuq (Vinnie Karetak), a quirky duo, who host a show from their tent on the arctic tundra. The half hour television show also features skits, commercial parodies, fake newscasts, and more. One of its aims is to promote Inuit languages. It specifically uses the Inuktitut language. \n\nThe television program was originally produced by the Inuit Broadcasting Corporation as a children and youth show. In 2015, Qanukiaq Studios Inc., set up by the original cast and crew, took over as the shows new producers. Initially the show was on a low budget of $10,000-20,000 but the budget for the 2017 season was three times this.\n\n"}
{"id": "19839947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19839947", "title": "Rural economics", "text": "Rural economics\n\nRural economics is the study of rural economies, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "10448457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10448457", "title": "Seawane Country Club", "text": "Seawane Country Club\n\nThe Seawane Club is a private member owned golf and country club in Hewlett Harbor, New York. It contains an 18 hole golf course, 10 tennis courts, a swimming pool, a bar, restaurant, grill room, men's and women's card room, men's and women's locker rooms, masseur complete health club facilities with trainers and barbershop. In 2004, it was awarded the New York Sports Writers Association Golf Club of the year.\n\nThe club is located at 1300 Club Drive in Hewlett Harbor in Nassau County, Long Island, New York. It is on the south shore and borders an inlet of Hewlett Bay. The club's name originates from the word \"sewan,\" beads used as wampum by American Indians.\n\n"}
{"id": "34208976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34208976", "title": "Semnam language", "text": "Semnam language\n\nSemnam is an aboriginal Mon–Khmer language of Malaya.\n\n"}
{"id": "55667373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55667373", "title": "Sindh Literature Festival", "text": "Sindh Literature Festival\n\nSindh Literature Festival is an annual literary gathering organized by Sindh Literary Foundation. The festival was first held in November 2016 at Beach Luxury Hotel Karachi. The second event held in 2017 from 27–29 October in the same hotel.\n\nEvent comprises a number of sessions that aim at highlighting social issue of Sindh, Sindhi Culture, issues related with Sindhi language, developments in Sindhi literature. Book stalls, handicraft stalls, \"mushaira\" sessions and musical sessions of folk singers are also arranged during event.\n\nA number of prominent public figures have participated in the event including Sufi singers Abida Parveen, Saif Samejo, Amb Jogi, journalists Hamid Mir, Wusatullah Khan, politicians Raza Rabbani, Ayaz Latif Palijo, Sassui Palijo, Aitzaz Ahsan, actresses Sanam Baloch, Sabreen Hisbani and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51525633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51525633", "title": "Size-asymmetric competition", "text": "Size-asymmetric competition\n\nSize-asymmetric competition refers to situations in which larger individuals exploit disproportionally greater amounts of resources when competing with smaller individuals. This type of competition is common among plants but also exists among animals. Size-asymmetric competition usually results from large individuals monopolizing the resource by \"pre-emption\". i.e. exploiting the resource before smaller individuals are able to obtain it. Size-asymmetric competition has major effects on population structure and diversity within ecological communities.\n\nResource competition can vary from complete symmetric (all individuals receive the same amount of resources, irrespective of their size, known also as scramble competition) to perfectly size symmetric (all individuals exploit the same amount of resource per unit biomass) to absolutely size asymmetric (the largest individuals exploit all the available resource). The degree of size asymmetry can be described by the parameter θ in the following equation focusing on the partition of the resource r among n individuals of sizes Bj.\n\nri refers to the amount of resource consumed by individual i in the neighbourhood of j. When θ =1, competition is perfectly size symmetric, e.g. if a large individual is twice the size of its smaller competitor, the large individual will acquire twice the amount of that resource (i.e. both individuals will exploit the same amount of resource per biomass unit). When θ >1 competition is size-asymmetric, e.g. if large individual is twice the size of its smaller competitor and θ =2, the large individual will acquire four times the amount of that resource (i.e. the large individual will exploit twice the amount of resource per biomass unit). As θ increases, competition becomes more size-asymmetric and larger plants get larger amounts of resource per unit biomass compared with smaller plants.\n\nCompetition among plants for light is size-asymmetric because of the directionality of its supply. Higher leaves shade lower leaves but not vice versa. Competition for nutrients appears to be relatively size-symmetric, although it has been hypothesized that a patchy distribution of nutrients in the soil may lead to size-asymmetry in competition among roots. Nothing is known about the size-asymmetry of competition for water.\n\nVarious ecological processes and patterns have been shown to be affected by the degree of size-asymmetry e.g. succession, biomass distribution, grazing response, population growth, ecosystem functioning, coexistence and species richness. A large body of evidence shows that species loss following nutrient enrichment (eutrophication) is related to light competition (5, 15, 16). However, there is still a debate whether this phenomenon is related to the size-asymmetry of light competition or to other factors.\n\nContrasting assumptions about size-asymmetry characterise the two leading and competing theories in plant ecology, the R* theory and the CSR theory. The R* theory assumes that competition is size-symmetric and therefore predicts that competitive ability in nature results from the ability to withstand low level of resources (known as the R* rule). In contrast the CSR theory assumes that competition is size-asymmetric and therefore predicts that competitive ability in nature results from the ability to grow fast and attain a large size.\n\nSize-asymmetric competition affects also several evolutionary processes in relation to trait selection. Evolution of plant height is highly affected by asymmetric light competition. Theory predicts that only under asymmetric light competition, plants will grow upward and invest in wood production at the expense of investment in leaves, or in reproductive organs (flowers and fruits). Consistent with this, there is evidence that plant height increases as water availability increases, presumably due to increase in the relative importance of size-asymmetric competition for light. Similarly, investment in the size of seeds at the expense of their number may be more effective undersize-asymmetric resource competition, since larger seeds tend to produce larger seedlings that are better competitors.\nSize-asymmetric competition can be exploited in managing plant communities, such as the suppression of weed in crop fields. Weeds are a greater problem for farmer in dry than in moist environments, in large part because crops can suppress weeds much more effectively undersize-asymmetric competition for light than under more size-symmetric competition below ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "425415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425415", "title": "Social cost", "text": "Social cost\n\nSocial cost, in neoclassical economics, is the sum of the private costs resulting from a transaction and the costs imposed on the consumers as a consequence of being exposed to the md's transaction for which they are not compensated or charged. Private costs are the direct costs of the producer to produce the good or service. Social cost includes these private costs, and in additional the costs (external costs) associated with the production of the good which are not dealt with by the free market. Mathematically, social marginal cost is the sum of private marginal cost and the external costs. For example, when selling a glass of lemonade at a lemonade stand, the private costs involved in this transaction are the costs of the lemons and the sugar and the water that are ingredients to the lemonade, the opportunity cost of the labor to combine them into lemonade, as well as any transaction costs, such as walking to the stand. An example of marginal damages associated with social costs of driving includes wear and tear, congestion, and the decreased quality of life due to drunken driving or impatience.\n\n\"Social costs\" in heterodox economics is the social part of the cost of production, the production's cost to society. According to this theory, producers shift as many costs as they can get away with to society, in order to increase profits. This means that capitalism is largely a system of unpaid costs and avoidance of responsibility on the part of producers. Because social costs are a systemic and not an accidental phenomenon, systemic planning is necessary to prevent. This means the adoption of the precautionary principle and a reversal of the burden of proof, such that producers have to prove the safety of their production methods and products beforehand. Social costs are also not merely a monetary phenomenon but involve substantive, complex,and often irreversible damages to the social and natural environment. These damages can accumulate and build on themselves, to undermine the entire economy of a community or region. This theory of social costs was developed by K. William Kapp (see reference list below) in the tradition of Institutional and Ecological Economics, which differ from neoclassical and neoliberal theories.\n\nAccording to the International Monetary Fund, \"there are differences between private costs and the costs to the society as a whole\". In a situation where there are positive social costs, it means that the first of the Fundamental theorems of welfare economics failed in that relying merely on private markets for price and quantity lead to an inefficient outcome. Market failures or situations in which consumption, investment, and production decisions made by individuals or firms result in indirect costs (they have an effect on parties external to the transaction) which are one of the most common reasons for government intervention. In economics, these indirect costs which lead to inefficiencies in the market and result in a difference between the private costs and the social costs are called externalities. Thus, social costs are the transaction costs to society as a whole. Generally, social costs are easier to think about in marginal terms, i.e. marginal social cost. Marginal social cost refers to the total costs that the society pays for the production of an extra unit of the good or service in question. Mathematically, this can be represented by Marginal Social Cost (MSC) = Marginal Private Cost (MPC) + Marginal External Costs (MEC).\n\nSocial costs can be of two types -- Negative Production Externality and Positive Production Externality. Negative Production Externality refers to a situation in which marginal damages are social costs to society that result in Marginal Social Cost being greater than the Marginal Private Cost i.e. MSC > MPC. Intuitively, this refers to a situation in which the production of the firm reduces the well-being of the people in the society who are not compensated for the same. For example, steel production results in a negative externality because of the marginal damages pertaining to pollution and negative environmental effects. Steelmaking results in indirect costs as a result of emission of pollutants, lower air quality, etc. For example, these indirect costs might include the health of a homeowner near the production unit and higher healthcare costs which have not been factored into the free market price and quantity. Given that the producer does not bear the burden of these costs, they are not passed down to the end user thus creating a situation where MSC > MPC. \n\nThis example can be better elucidated with a diagram. Profit-maximizing organizations in a free market will set output at Q where marginal private costs (MPC) is equal to marginal benefit (MB). Intuitively, this is the point on the diagram where the private supply curve (MPC) and consumer demand curve (MB) intersect i.e. where consumer demand meets firm supply. This results in a competitive market equilibrium price of p. \n\nIn the presence of a negative production externality, the private marginal cost increases i.e. shifted upwards to the left by marginal damages to yield the marginal social curve. The star in the diagram, or the point where the new supply curve (inclusive of marginal damages to society) and the consumer demand intersect, represents the socially optimum quantity Q and price. At this social optimum, the price paid by the consumer is p and the price received by the producers is p. \n\nHigh positive social costs, in the form of marginal damages, lead to an over-production. In the diagram, there is overproduction at Q - Q with an associated deadweight loss of the shaded triangle. One of the public sector remedies for internalizing externalities is a corrective tax. According to neoclassical economist Arthur Pigou, in order to correct this market failure (or externality) the government should levy a tax which equals to marginal damages per unit. This would effectively increase the firm's private marginal so that SMC = PMC. \n\nThe prospect of government intervention in regards to correcting an externality has been hotly debated. Economists like Ronald Coase contend that in the absence of transaction costs and under the assumption of perfect information the market can internalize an externality and provide for an external outcome through bargaining among affected parties. For example, in the above-mentioned case, the homeowners could negotiate with the pollution firm and strike a deal in which they would pay the firm not to pollute or to charge the firm for pollution; the outcome pertaining to who pays is determined by bargaining power. According to Thomas Helbing at the International Monetary Fund, government intervention might be most optimal in situations where one party might have undue bargaining power compared to the other party. \n\nIn an alternative scenario, positive production externality occurs when the social costs of production are lower than the marginal private costs of production. For example, the social benefit of research and development not only applies to the profits made by the firm but also helps improve the health of society through better quality of life, lower healthcare costs, etc. In this case, the marginal social cost curve would shift downwards and there would be underproduction. In this case, government intervention would result in a Pigouvian subsidy in order to decrease the firm's private marginal cost so that MPC = SMC.\n\nThe perspective of heterodox economics on social costs differs from the neoclassical perspective adopted by the IMF. In this, social costs are total costs of production minus private costs of production. This is an important difference as it highlights that producers \"socialize\" part of the costs, while they privatize profits. Heterodox economists think that this terminology is more adequate to the problem of social costs. In fact, the term \"externality\" - first developed by Alfred Marshall to cover economies of scale - itself is highly normative, suggesting that these costs are somewhat external. However, they are 100% internal when considered from a societal and ecological perspective. This heterodox definition of social costs is widely adopted within Social Economics, Institutional Economics, Ecological Economics, and Marxist Economics. These discourse communities reject neoclassical (Pigou) and neoliberal (Coase; Stigler; Hayek; Mises; Calabresi) definitions of social costs because they are laden with a free-market and conservative value bias that is couched in the mantle of objective \"science\". Alternatively, they propose a preventative approach through the precautionary principle and a reversal of the burden of proof, which essentially mean robust social controls of the economic system for the benefit of all citizens. This is clearly different from the ad hoc, non-systematic, inconsistent, piecemeal approaches taken by tax-based and bargaining solutions.\n\nOne of the main problems with the problem of social costs is that their understanding depends on the chosen perspective and scientific paradigm. If one adopts a neoclassical Pigouvian lens the problem looks different from a Coasian, Kappian, or Misean lens. This also affects policy recommendations. In actual fact, we are faced with a plurality of views and prescriptions on this urgent problem. For an overview of approaches to the problem see below listed references, especially Berger 2017. \n\nQuantification of social costs, for damages or benefits in the future resulting from current production, is a critical problem for the presentation of social costs and when attempting to formulate policy to correct the externality. For example, damages to the environment, socioeconomic or political impacts, and costs or benefits that span long horizons are difficult to predict and quantify and thus, difficult to include in a cost-benefit analysis.\n\nAnother example that speaks to the difficulty surrounding the estimation of social costs is the social cost of carbon. In trying to monetize the social costs arising from carbon, one needs to understand \"the effect of a ton of a greenhouse gas on global temperatures, the effect of temperature change on agricultural yields, human health, flood risk, and myriad other harms to the ecosystem\". Analysts from Brookings Institution contend that one of the reasons the estimation of the social cost of carbon is incredibly complex is that the external costs imposed on society as a result of the transactions of one firm in China, for example, impact the quality of lives and health of consumers living in the United States.\n\nHeraclitus' idea that \"change is the only constant\" can also be applied to the understanding of the issues surrounding the presentation and estimation of social costs. Given that social costs are estimates and will always be subject to uncertainty, the assumptions made about the responses to policy, baseline social welfare, and predictions about the nature and number of affected parties are consequently imbued with a degree of uncertainty. Thus, estimates of social costs as of the present can never be known with certainty.\n\n"}
{"id": "5836382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5836382", "title": "Street piano", "text": "Street piano\n\nA street piano is a piano placed in the street which passersby are encouraged to play. The concept originated quite by accident in Sheffield, England.\n\nIn Sheffield, \"The Street Piano\" was a piano on the pavement on Sharrow Vale Road. It was originally left outside temporarily because the owner could not get it up the steps into his new house. As a social experiment the owner and a friend then attached a sign inviting passersby to play the piano for free. This offer was taken up by a great many people and the piano became a part of the local community. It survived for over a year, including being stolen and subsequently replaced by a newer model (with several volunteers willing to provide a new one). \n\nThe original street piano in Sheffield belonged to a family from Middlesbrough for decades before moving, with the daughter of the family, ending up in Sheffield. The original piano stool and music book holder did not make it on to Sharrow Vale Rd, parting company after many happy years together. \n\nThe piano became the centre of a local campaign once the council decided it constituted an abandoned item, and the campaign to save it spread quickly to local news outlets, with several articles on Indymedia. As of July 2006 a spokesman said in an interview for the National BBC Radio 4 that the piano was no longer under threat of removal. However, it was eventually removed in 2008 because of weather damage.\n\nArtist Luke Jerram created the concept of installing multiple street pianos across a city as an art installation. Often decorated by local artist, the project is intended to challenge the prohibition of playing music in public places without special arrangement. It prompts members of the public to use the piano, regardless of skill and popularity. Typically, a musician would have been stopped from playing outside the City of London and Sing London festival.. \n\nBy 2018, his team had installed over 1900 streetpianos in 70 cities worldwide. Play Me I'm Yours created a global movement of pianos being installed in public places across the world by organisations and individuals, for people to play. The artwork is often presented in the same format, but under a different title. In this way, the concept, has now become part of culture. \n\nIn 2007, Jerram installed 15 street pianos throughout Birmingham, United Kingdom, for the public to play. In just three weeks, 140,000 people across the city played, listened and connected with one another.\n\nJerram said \"Questioning the rules and ownership of public space 'Play Me I'm yours' is a provocation, inviting the public to engage with, activate and take ownership of their urban environment.\"\n\nThirteen pianos have been installed in São Paulo. Luke Jerram reported that many of those who stopped at the pianos had never played a real piano or even seen one.\n\n\"Play Me, I'm Yours\" started in Toronto in the summer of 2012. 41 pianos were placed around the downtown core of Toronto in celebration of the 2015 Pan American Games which were held in the city of Toronto.\n\nThirty street pianos were set up across Sydney for the Sydney Festival 2009. A website was set up for the public to upload and share their films, photographs and stories of the pianos being played.\n\nIn June and July 2009, thirty \"Play Me, I'm Yours\"-painted pianos were installed across London for members of the public to play. The painting on each piano was chosen to suit its location. The project was produced by Sing London and City of London Festival at a cost of £14,000. A music license had to be obtained for the location of each piano.\n\nThe artwork was presented again with Fifteen street pianos being located in and around Bristol in September 2009.\n\nPlay Me, I'm Yours arrived in Barcelona when twenty-three street pianos were located across the city in March 2010.\n\nIn several cities of Poland \"pianina miejskie\" are at the disposal of the population. \n\n\"Play Me, I'm Yours\", presented in New York City, brought sixty pianos to the center of commercial Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, The Bronx, and Staten Island. The pianos were placed at strategic locations throughout the five boroughs. For the two-week duration of 21 June through 5 July 2010, the pianos featured formal and impromptu concerts by students, tourists, children, nannies, lawyers, doctors, merchants, and artists in an open festival of music involving all elements of New York's culturally diverse population.\n\nBeginning in 2009, a collaboration of arts organizations have been presenting \"Pianos on State Street\" as an annual community art project after being inspired by Luke Jerram and other cities. The project happens in October to celebrate Arts and Humanities month, fostering the cultural vitality of the Santa Barbara arts community. Several non-profit organizations solicit donated pianos from the community and give Santa Barbara-based artists an opportunity to paint and decorate the pianos. The pianos are installed in the heart of downtown Santa Barbara where they are on display from one to three weeks. Many youth and social service organizations participate as artists or as scheduled performers throughout the duration of the program. The program has become a well-loved project by the community attracting local residents and tourists of all ages, artistic styles and socio-economic backgrounds. A permanent display of a painted piano also sits at the Santa Barbara Airport.\n\n\"Play Me, I'm Yours\" brought 35 pianos to Greater Cincinnati starting on 9 August 2010 with a kickoff event at Fountain Square, downtown. The pianos will be donated to arts centers and children in need after the project ends on 17 September. The project was brought to Cincinnati by Cincinnati Public Radio to celebrate the 50th anniversary of WGUC, the 40th anniversary of WVXU and the 60th anniversary of WMUB.\n\nMr. Jerram also entered \"Play Me I'm Yours\" in the 2010 Artprize competition in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Despite the entry's popularity, it failed to make the final round, finishing in the Top 25.\n\nThe largest \"Play Me, I'm Yours\" project, with 101 pianos, took place 11 September through 18 September 2011, as part of the Incubate festival in Tilburg, The Netherlands.\n\nAdelaide (Australia), Augsburg (Germany), Austin (USA), Boston (USA), Cambridge (UK), Cleveland (USA), Geneva (Switzerland), Goshen (USA), Hangzhou (China), London (UK), Los Angeles (USA), Malta, Mesa (USA), Monterey (USA), Munich (Germany), Omaha (USA), Paris (France), Perth (Australia), Prague (Czech Republic), Salem (USA), Salt Lake City (USA), Stratford (Canada), Toowoomba (Australia), Traverse City (USA)\n\nThe \"Public Piano Project \" in Joshua Tree California began as a public grand piano Valentine Gift to the community in 1995 as the \"Self Serve Serenade\" by artist Piano Bob (aka Bob Fenger). In 2002 Piano Bob began a donated piano consolidation project building a weather proof outdoor piano from the parts of 3 pianos and installed April 2004 in front of Joshua Tree Health Foods. It was enjoyed by thousands of Joshua Tree National Park Visitors and locals for nearly 2 years and was reinstalled 20 April 2012 at the Coyote Corner Gift Shop in Joshua Tree as the first \"Public Prepared Piano\". The piano is reminiscent of a Gamelan Orchestra prepared with everyday items such as coins, screws, paper mutes, wedged into the strings in a typical John Cage manner (inventor of the prepared piano in the 1940s also see Bob Fenger's \"Acoustisizer\" at \"Prepared piano\" 2.10). The \"Public Prepared Piano\" is the third phase of the \"Public Piano Project\" dedication to unknown closet pianists, art in public places, and instant drum circle fun around a keyboard. Through regular tuning and maintenance of the \"public pianos\" another opportunity presented itself for the public to observe, learn and interact with the total \"Public Piano Project\" experience. Questions like:how long does it stay in tune outside? The short answer: the colder the better the more in tune. The fact that Joshua Tree is in the High Desert above Palm Springs with many 100 degree plus days in the summer gave numerous opportunities for tuning, sharing and exchanging ideas. The artist's stated intention: 'The \"Public Piano Project\" creates momentary beauty thoughts and ideas that resonate out across fields, parking lots and sidewalks. It invites others to play along and gives way to song and laughter, accidental bonding and new friends; even possibly an ephemeral center of insight and change'. On 21 December 2012 Piano Bob launched his fourth phase of the \"Public Piano Project\" with the \"Prepared\" and \"Unprepared\" dueling pianos for peace at the Joshua Tree Hospice. \"Public Piano Locations\" \"Public Piano Tour Pictures 2007\".\n\nIn 2012, the Plateau-Mont-Royal borough in Montreal installed two public pianos; Patrick Watson inaugurated the season by being the first to play on one of them while artist and compositor Victor Simon played on the second. In 2013, following the success of the first season, the borough installed two more pianos and lent one to the Pointe-à-Callière Museum for a total of five public pianos, inaugurated by five different artists, Socalled, Yann Perreau, Louise-Andrée Baril, Alex Nevsky, Fanny Bloom and François Bourassa. In 2013, the idea has expanded to Mercier-Hochelaga-Maisonneuve borough, that installed one public piano. All those pianos will be left available to the public until the end of September. By 2016, the project has expanded to dozens of pianos in multiple districts. \n\nStarting in July 2015, the botanical garden in Golden Gate Park in San Francisco hosted a dozen pianos temporarily installed in the park for a dozen days. The project was repeated in 2016. The botanical garden is free for San Francisco residents. Other times of the year, the Sunset Piano project installs public pianos around the San Francisco bay area and beyond.\n\nPublic pianos can also be found at specific airports and train stations in Italy, such as in Rome, Venice, Florence, and Milan.\n"}
{"id": "53598455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53598455", "title": "Susan M. Carney", "text": "Susan M. Carney\n\nSusan M. Carney (born 1962) is a Justice of the Supreme Court of Alaska, appointed on May 12, 2016. She holds a seat in Fairbanks.\n\nPreviously Carney was a defense attorney with the Office of Public Advocacy and with the Alaska Public Defender Agency. Born in Worcester, Massachusetts, Carney earned her bachelor's degree in History & Literature at Harvard-Radcliffe College and graduated cum laude from Harvard Law School. After law school, she clerked for Alaska Supreme Court Justice Jay Rabinowitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "39094034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39094034", "title": "Tallstick", "text": "Tallstick\n\nThe Tallstick is a yardstick-like device for field measurement of childhood stunting based on age and sex norms. Its simplicity, portability, and low-cost have made it a popular tool for aide workers and community volunteers in remote areas.\n\nShaped like a yardstick, the Tallstick is marked in ages from birth to five years, with one side blue for boys and the other pink for girls. Markings on each side represent -2 standard deviations from height-for-age values (HAZ<-2). The Tallstick markings are expressed in years and months and each consecutive mark represents an increment of 1 month in age. Infants below 12 months are measured lying down (recumbent position) while children ages one to five are measured standing up. The child whose length is below the line corresponding to his or her age is recorded as stunted.\n\nThe Tallstick was originally developed in 1989 by Marian Zeitlin, PhD, of Tufts University while the field validation was conducted by Mirette Seireg Ohman, MSc, lead investigator of the Positive Deviance in Nutrition Project in Nicaragua.\n"}
{"id": "8084997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8084997", "title": "The Freewoman", "text": "The Freewoman\n\nThe Freewoman was a feminist weekly published between 23 November 1911 and 10 October 1912 and edited by Dora Marsden and Mary Gawthorpe.\n\nAlthough \"The Freewoman\" published articles on women's waged work, housework, motherhood, the suffrage movement, and literature, its notoriety and influence rested on its frank discussions of sexuality, morality, and marriage. \"The Freewoman\" urged tolerance for male homosexuality, advocated for free love, and encouraged women to remain unmarried.\n\n\"The Freewoman\"'s editorial stance distinguished it sharply from the attitude of suffragists like Millicent Fawcett, who was so disturbed at the journal's approach to sexuality that she tore the first issue into little pieces.\n\nIn March 1912 Gawthorpe resigned due to poor health and disagreements with Marsden. In September 1912, W H Smith refused to carry \"The Freewoman\" and in October 1912, the journal folded.\n\nAlthough its circulation probably never exceeded 200, it had a significant influence in Modernist circles. Among its contributors were Rebecca West, H. G. Wells, Edward Carpenter, and Guy Aldred.\n\nIn June 1913 Marsden started \"The New Freewoman\" which was more concerned with literary modernism than feminism and was funded by Harriet Shaw Weaver. In 1914, \"The New Freewoman\" became \"The Egoist\".\n\n\"The Freewoman\" was a feminist journal/newspaper in publication during the early twentieth century in Britain. Dora Marsden founded \"The Freewoman\" in November 1911, but the paper was also co-edited by Mary Gawthorpe. Despite being edited by both women, Marsden initially used Gawthorpe for her name and influence in the feminist society to give the paper creditability and popularity. The paper was rooted in more radical feminist ideals that stretched beyond strictly suffrage. Marsden focused the paper around the discussion of sex and the idea of being sexual, causing many issues to arise amongst readers. After the first issue of \"The Freewoman\", the female readers, many of whom grew up during the Victorian era of feminism, thought the views presented did not reflect the ideals of the feminism they had grown to understand. One of their main objectives was the papers very obvious discussions and references to sex. \nIn the paper’s first issue it stated that it sought to represent the feminist movement through intellectual thought by actual feminists of the time. It touched on the idea of marriage, motherhood, sexuality, women’s rights, and the domestic man. Its radical approach on these ideas seemed misplaced for the twentieth century, however its influence amongst the feminist and sexual radicals was greater than its small circulation implied.\n\nAccording to many of the female readers, \"The Freewoman\" expressed beliefs more radical than most feminists during the early twentieth century. In the paper’s first issue it discussed the definition of marriage. To \"The Freewoman\" marriage did not only mean men and women, nor did it mean that a couple had to have children. To the women who were raised during the Victorian era, this concept of marriage did not register with them. Marriage in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, and even in the current day, meant a man and woman and usually resulted in children. However, with the job opportunities and improved possibility of economic and social independence from the years preceding and during the war, women were able to forge a new identity separate from the confines of marriage. \nAs feminism began to grow throughout the twentieth century the paper began to put a new label on these radical and forward thinking feminists: The New Woman.\n\n\"The Freewoman\" began to redefine and transform feminism from being solely related to suffrage and the suffrage movement, but to show feminism in its purest form. It aimed to say that feminists needed to strive for more than just the right to vote. Marsden’s rather liberal and forward thinking opinion on the definition of feminism is what caused future debates amongst other prominent feminists of the time. The New Woman was to be a politically, socially and economically independent woman. \"The Freewoman\" did not reject the domestic life that most women during the twentieth century lived, but rather used the domestic life of a woman as a tool to show women that they could take an active role in protecting their interests. \nIn the paper’s third publication it discussed the idea of the domestic man. It raised the idea that a man can do the work of a woman in the domestic sphere. The goal was to “work towards the evolution of the New Housekeeping.” Its rationale hinged on the argument that the house and its inner workings were no different from that of a restaurant or even a milliner’s shop. The paper also suggested the idea of communal cooking and man and wife dividing up the household duties that would allow women to work outside of the domestic life. This idea of the domestic man also supported the idea of the homosexual family. With a man being able to do the domestic work, it presented the idea that man and man could live as a couple. To say that this openly happened is not likely, however \"The Freewoman\" implied and even supported this life style choice. The paper again showed its liberal and progressive beliefs with its idea of the domestic man.\n\nThe Freewoman stated that: \"It is high time for a reversal of the servile notion of government from above. Free government proceeds from the individual outwards, not from the sum total inwards. It is for this reason that, considering the trend of Syndicalism, we are of the opinion that it is likely to make a far more intimate appeal to the nation than Socialism ever has. Its aims are the same: the means of production and exchange to be the property of the community as a whole, but under Syndicalism the control of conditions of work are to be in the hands of those who perform it.\"\n\nWith the papers candid nature of expressing many of its beliefs, there were bound to be arguments. One of it biggest criticisms and continuous debates with some readers came from its stance on the suffrage movement. It openly challenged the ideals of the movement and its organization. Despite being co-edited, these views were mainly the opinions of Marsden and not Gawthorpe. With the paper’s belief that feminism was more than just the right to vote, its views on the suffrage movement were unlike most feminists in Britain during the twentieth century. During this era women were fighting for the right to vote and to be regarded as political equals amongst men. Not all feminists believed in complete female independence from the strongholds of the normative female life. \"The Freewoman\" wanted to stray away from this concept of feminism. It wanted women to not only be politically equal, but economically and socially self-sufficient as well. It rooted its beliefs in complete female independence from the norms of society.\n\nThe publication of \"The Freewoman\" did not last long. Its final paper was published in 1912, but was later revived in May 1913 with the new title \"The New Freewoman\". Despite the attempts to revive the paper and inspire more readers, the paper finally ended publication in 1914. Its publication did not reach a large market, mostly due to its views on feminism and the suffrage movement. The paper, but more specifically Dora Marsden’s beliefs and opinions were far too liberal and progressive for its early twentieth century audience. The audience was still rather conservative in their views. It would not be until the years of the Great War that women began to take small strides in some of the ideals that \"The Freewoman\" expressed. Despite having an extremely small circulation, the paper’s strong beliefs and opinions were widely known and debated against and provided the impetus for future feminist activists.\n\n\nwww.aplink.co.jp/ep/4-902454-27-0.html\n\n"}
{"id": "39665166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39665166", "title": "Women in Morocco", "text": "Women in Morocco\n\nThe history of women in Morocco includes their lives from before, during, and after the arrival of Islam in the northwestern African country of Morocco. In 622 AC, as Islam arrived in Morocco, the women of Morocco received three basic rights under the Muslims' religion: the right to live, the right to be honored and to be respected as a mother, and the right to own business and be able to work. From the 1940s until the Moroccan declaration of independence from the tutelage of France in 1956, Moroccan women lived in family units that are \"enclosed households\" or \"harem\", wherein extended families live as one unit together and where women are secluded and require permission from the men before leaving a household that is protected by a gate keeper. In addition, during that time, married women were treated better than women who were divorced. The hierarchy and importance of women were further categorized according to age and status in the family and community. Among their activities during that period were performing household chores, embroidery, and crafts, attending Koranic schools, and going to a Moroccan bathhouse known as the \"hammam\". The tradition of the harem lifestyle for women gradually ended upon Morocco's independence from France in 1956.\n\nAfter Morocco's independence from France, Moroccan women were able to start going to schools that don't focus only on teaching religion, but also sciences and other subjects. Upon the institution of the legal code known as Mudawana in 2004, Moroccan women obtained the rights to divorce their husbands, to child custody, to child support, and to own and inherit property.\n\nWhile Morocco's current borders and entity as a nation state were not recognized until 1956 following independence from France, women there have played a significant role in its conception, which spans several centuries. From their roles of relaying oral traditions and stories, to forging the foundation of important institutions, to their involvement in resisting colonialism, and holding positions of power following the establishment of the Moroccan state, women were and continue play significant roles in Morocco.\n\nPrior to the spread of Islam into Morocco, which brought along with it the Arab conquest, Morocco was part of a region inhabited mostly by a non-Arab Amazigh population. Various Amazigh tribes during the 4th, 5th, and 6th century were noted to have been matrilineal, such as the Tuareg tribes of North Africa. As such, Amazigh women were noted to have taken on significant roles in local communities. This was especially evident through the figure of Kahina, who was a noted Amazigh female military leader who fought against the Arab and Muslim expansion into North Africa.\nAmazigh women have had a lasting position in Moroccan folklore, a position that predates the Arab and Muslim conquest of the Maghreb region. It is believed that the tale of Aisha Qandisha has existed since at least the 7th century. There are several variations of Aisha Qandisha's name, among which include Lalla Aicha and Aicha Hamdouchia. Stemming from the pre-Islamic era of Morocco, Aisha Qandisha is said to have been a female demon that takes the shape of multiple beings, including a half-goat. Aicha Qandisha, unlike other demons in Moroccan folklore, appears mostly in men's dreams and is said to make a man impotent. Such folklore remains widely popular in Morocco today.\n\nFollowing the Arab and Muslim expansion into the Maghreb region, women took on significant roles in the institutional foundation of landmarks that continue to function today. Fatima al-Fihri, for example, is credited for founding the University of al-Karaouine in 859, the “world's first academic degree-granting institution of higher education” in Fes, Morocco. Fatima's sister, Mariam al-Fihri, also founded the al-Andalus Mosque in Fes.\n\nAs part of a broader French imperialist project that justified the colonization of Morocco and the Maghreb region in general, European narratives on Moroccan women were fixated on Orientalist images. Dominant narratives described Moroccan women as docile, oppressed, and in need of being saved. Consequently, Moroccan women's experience of life under colonialism was a result of multiple intersections of power and patriarchy. For example, following a growing trend of French land expropriation, which drove rural Moroccan families out of their homes and land, many Moroccan women migrated to the urban areas in search of economic opportunity, especially in Casablanca. Upon migrating to Casablanca, many Moroccan women were forced into prostitution, namely due to their lack of formal identification documents—a policy that the French instituted.\n\nJust as Moroccan women were subject to a gendered form of colonialism, their resistance was gendered as well. The oral traditions of Moroccan women were a unique form of disseminating stories of resistance, oftentimes inspired by existing Islamic oral traditions of female warriors who fought in early Islamic history, such as the stories of Hind and Sukayna. Moroccan women, especially those involved in the armed resistance primarily in the northern Rif region, adopted their own experiences of fighting against colonialism to existing frameworks of oral traditions that address women in war. The storytelling of these events played a significant role in shaping memories and conceptualizing post-colonial identities among women.\n\nIn addition to the oral traditions of women involved in armed resistance, a role that mostly lower class women took up, upper class Moroccan women were heavily involved in the nationalist politics of resisting colonialism. The Istiqlal Party was the primary mobilizing political force in Morocco that rallied against French colonial rule. The party included the participation of various elite Moroccan women from wealthy and educated families, such as Malika Al-Fassi, from the still influential Al-Fassi family. There was a close collaboration between women like Malika Al-Fassi, who were important figures in the political resistance, and women such as Fatima Roudania, a working-class armed resistance fighter. The wealthier women involved with the Istiqlal Party provided educational services to lower class women involved in the armed resistance, assisted in the proliferation of nationalist literature and knowledge production, and provided protection by hiding women who were fighting against the French.\n\nMany of the Moroccan women involved in resisting French colonialism oftentimes looked to the public presence of women in other struggles of resistance in the region for inspiration, such as in Algeria and Palestine, including women like Djamila Bouhired and Leila Khaled.\n\nFollowing independence from France in 1956, Moroccan women were at the forefront of knowledge production and artistic expression—all of which nuanced the conception and perception of a post-colonial Moroccan identity. Fatima Mernissi, for example, emerged as a critical figure in the knowledge production on gender studies in Morocco. Laila Lalami has also become a popular figure in literature on Morocco, being the first Moroccan author to publish a book of fiction in English. Other Moroccan women who gained prominence through their published work include Leila Abouzeid, Latifa Baka, Khnata Bennouna, Farida Diorui, and Bahaa Trabelsi.\n\nMoroccan women artists also gained regional and international popularity, including Lalla Essaydi, Samira Said, Amel Bent, Najat Aatabou, Dounia Batma, and Naima Samih, among others.\n\nIn addition to art and literature, Moroccan women have been publicly present in shaping contemporary politics. In 1961, the \"Union Progresiste des Femmes Marocaines\" emerged as one of the first exclusively female organizations in Morocco. Princess Lalla Aicha, the late sister of the late King Hassan II was the president of another woman's organization called the \"Union Nationale des Femmes Marocaines\". Various other woman's organizations in Morocco were created after independence with the aim of advancing the cause of women's rights, such as the Democratic Association of Moroccan Women and the Union de l’Action Feminine.\n\nVarious Moroccan women have held positions in the ruling government, cabinet, and high ranks in political parties, including Asma Chaabi, Nawal El Moutawakel, Bassima Hakkaoui, Nouzha Skalli, and , among others. Contrarily, Moroccan women have also been in the forefront of dissent and the opposition, who oftentimes faced jail and harassment from the Moroccan government. Among those are Nadia Yassine and Khadija Riyadi. During the beginning of Morocco's version of the Arab Uprisings that began in December 2010 following the self-immolation of Tunisian fruit vendor, Mohammed Bouazizi, a single Moroccan mother, Fadoua Laroui, set herself on fire in front of a municipal office in protest of her public housing application getting rejected. Laroui has been dubbed by some as the “Moroccan female Bouazizi.”\n\nDue to this increased political voice, women's representation in parliament has increased dramatically, from 1% in 2003 to 17% in 2015; Morocco's 2004 Family Code is one of the most progressive in the Arab world; in 1993, Morocco ratified an international agreement on gender equality that has provided leverage for further progress in domestic legislation.\n\nFollowing the increase in representation, Morocco has seen improvements in women's health and social outcomes: the fertility rate is now one of the lowest in the region; the maternal mortality rate fell by two-thirds in just two decades; girls’ primary school enrolment rose from 52% in 1991 to 112% in 2012 (due to re-enrolment); and just under 23% of women are in formal employment (2011).\n\nOutside the realm of formal politics, Moroccan women have been active in various advocacy projects and legal reforms. Most notably, following the suicide of Amina Filali, a young girl who was forced to marry her rapist, various Moroccan woman organizations, such as Union de l'Action Feminine, pushed for the reform of Article 475 from Morocco's penal code. Prior to the national campaign, Article 475 was the law cited by the judge in Amina Filali's case that stated a rapist may be acquitted of charges if he marries his victim. The campaign led to the repeal of Article 475 on January 2014.\n\nMoroccan women have also been active in lobbying for reforms to the personal status code laws (Mudawana). The Mudawana was initially codified following Morocco's independence from France and was used as a tool for the state's immediate consolidation of power. Following Mohammed VI's accession to the throne in 1999, reforming the Mudawana was a major platform that guided the early years of his reign. Various women's organizations supported these measures, such as \"l’Union de l’Action Féminine (UAF)\" and \"Association Marocaine pour les Droits des Femmes (ADFM)\". In 2004, some of the reforms included stricter measures for men wanting to marry additional wives, greater leniency for a divorce initiated by the wife, more equitable inheritance rights for women, and the increase in the legal age of marriage for women. The reception of these reforms to the Mudawana varied across class lines and the political spectrum. While members of the aforementioned UAF and ADFM championed these measures, various groups, such as the Islamist Al Adl Wa Al Ihsanne opposed these measures, claiming the reforms were \"Western-inspired\" and rooted in the neoliberal feminist measures of the World Bank.\n\nAbortion in Morocco is illegal. According to Article 453 of the Penal Code, abortion was only allowed if the mother's physical health was threatened. An amendment to Morocco's abortion law has recently been approved. The new amendment allows abortion in cases of rape, incest and foetal impairment. The debate on Morocco's abortion law was opened after the Moroccan Association for the Fight against Clandestine Abortion AMLAC reported that 800 illegal abortions were performed daily nationwide. Dr. Chafik Chraibi, former head of gynaecology and obstetrics at the Matérnité des Orangers in Rabat, Morocco and founder of AMLAC was behind the study.\n\nWomen in Morocco are often forced to endure daily harassment whenever they go out in public. Often the sexual harassment takes the form of name callings, such as \"whore\" or even catcalling. To fight this abusive misogynistic culture, a number of Moroccan women have stood up to their abusers. Women are also subject to the male gaze by both young and old men in the streets. The culture of sitting at a café had been dominated by men for a long time. It is only during the recent two decades that seeing women mixing with men in cafés in urban cities; Marrakech, Tangier, Rabat or Casablanca became socially acceptable. There is also a demand to uphold the law to ensure the safety of women, and to punish the abuser. Despite the fact that there is a law that protects women from abuse, the real problem is that there is no tangible intention to pursue or apply it. In 2018 a law went into effect throughout Morocco known as the Hakkaoui law because Bassima Hakkaoui drafted it; it includes a ban on sexual harassment in public places, as well as a ban on forced marriage and harsher penalties for certain forms of violence. But it was criticized for requiring victims to file for criminal prosecution to get protection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25055100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25055100", "title": "World Forum for Democratization in Asia", "text": "World Forum for Democratization in Asia\n\nThe World Forum for Democratization in Asia (WFDA) was set up in 2005 to enhance political development and conduct democracy promotion activities in Asia. WFDA's secretariat is based in Taipei, Taiwan at the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy (TFD). WFDA has organized several conferences between various civil society organizations, most notably its Biennial Conferences.\n\nThe first Biennial was held in Taipei, Taiwan and was designed to \"discuss and adopt guidelines to promote the solidarity of Asian democracies, support democracy activists who are opposed to authoritarian regimes, and solicit support from the international community on democratization in Asia\" \n\nThe second Biennial was held in Manila, Philippines.\nThe third Biennial was held in Seoul, South Korea around the eve of World Democracy Day. A brief controversy ensued when South Korea decided to bar the entry of an Uigyhur activist of German nationality that was scheduled to attend the conference.\n\n\n"}
