{"id": "52586820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52586820", "title": "1977 Bangladesh Air Force mutiny", "text": "1977 Bangladesh Air Force mutiny\n\nThe 1977 Bangladesh Air Force mutiny was a mutiny in Dhaka on 1 October 1977 by members of Bangladesh Air force and the Signal corps of Bangladesh Army.\n\nBangladesh was under a military government headed by President Ziaur Rahman who had come to power through a coup. The government of Bangladesh was busy with the Japan Airlines Flight 472 hijacking and the exchange of hostages for ransom. The Japanese Red Army had hijacked the plane and landed it in Tejgaon Airport in Dhaka. The hijackers were warned of the mutiny and told to take defensive position if they saw armed personnel moving towards the plane by the air control tower.\n\nThe revolt was carried out by lower ranking soldiers of Bangladesh Army Signals Battalion and Bangladesh Air Force. The mutineers had killed 11 officers in Tejgaon Airport. Ten soldiers were killed from the army. The mutineers took over Dhaka Radio station briefly and attacked the residence of president Ziaur Rahman. After the mutiny was brought under control of the government, hundreds of soldiers, mostly from the Air Force, were arrested and tried in military tribunals. Hundreds were convicted and executed in Dhaka Central Jail. The government of President Zia officially announced the hanging of 561 Air Force personal. The mutiny was led by Sergeant Afsar of Bangladesh Air Force, he was influenced by the ideology of Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal.\n"}
{"id": "6524173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6524173", "title": "Accra International Conference Centre", "text": "Accra International Conference Centre\n\nThe Accra International Conference Centre is an events venue in Accra, Ghana. Other venues include the Ghana Trade Fair Center and the National Theatre, but the Conference Centre is the most popular due to its size and capacity as compared to the National Theatre, and at the same time smaller than the Ghana Trade Fair Centre (which was built to host pan-African events).\n\nIt is located in the Christiansborg area in Accra Osu and is close to a number of important locations such as the Parliament of Ghana, the Accra Sports Stadium, the Independence Square and the Black Star Square.\n"}
{"id": "6620965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6620965", "title": "Bembe people", "text": "Bembe people\n\nThe Bembe are an ethnic and linguistic group based in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and western Tanzania. In 1991 the Bembe population of the DRC was estimated to number 252,000 and around 1.5 million in 2005 with no estimate available for the number of Bembe in Tanzania\n\nThe Bembe (Babembe, Beembe, Cuabembe, Wabembe) originate from northeast of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and western Tanzania. They are representative of numerous ethnic traditions including Lega, pre-Lega, Boyo-Kunda, and Bemba. They are a tough and proud people who absorbed other populations and their systems of thought in the process of carving out their current homeland in a time of widespread conflict and under economic pressure from European invaders and slave traders during the 19th century.\n\nThe Bembe in Congo-Brazzaville number 60 to 80,000, mostly living on the plateaus situated to the north of the Congo River, as well as on the shores of Stanley Pool and in the cities of Brazzaville, Dolisie, and Pointe-Noire. The Bembe traditionally had close contacts with their neighbors the Teke, but influence from the Kongo Kingdom was essential to their culture and traditions. In Tanzania, some of the Bembe people have become a part of Manyema, and Swahili people due to culture and language loss. Originally natives of Kigoma region, the Bembe people of Tanzania have stretched throughout the country from their home land of Kigoma to the island of Zanzibar.\n\nTheir social organisation was based on the matrimonial clan, whose members could live in several villages. The family unit generally included three generations. The chief in charge of the village, the nga-bula, mediated with the ancestors.\n\nHunting was the main activity; before leaving on a hunt, the leader would invoke the ancestral spirits, using as intermediaries statuettes kneeling in the position of a hunter waiting for his prey. The Bembe believed in a creator god, Nzambi, whom they did not depict figuratively. He was the master of the life and death – unless the latter was due to the act of a sorcerer, ndoki, who could magically “eat” the life force of clan members. The ancestors had close ties with the living and received offerings through the “priest” who made appeals to statuettes, the kitebi or bimbi, consecrated by the sorcerer. These figurines were the idealized images of the ancestors and would often wear attributes that allowed them to be identified as medicine men or hunters. The ancestor worship among the Bembe is older, though, and precedes the use of magic statues, nkisi, by the sorcerers.\n\nThe Bembe people of Tanzania have lost their culture for the most part, and the Bembe language is slowly fading. Most of the youth under the age of 30 are unable to speak their mother tongue; instead, they use Swahili as their first language and follow Swahili culture and traditions.\n\nIn terms of artistic practice, the Beembe have much in common with other Kongo groups, such as the use of nkisi figures. However, Bimbi figures are the most distinctive form of Beembe sculpture. \"Bimbi\" are meticulously carved ancestral figures rendered in idealized form. They display extensive geometric incisions representing scarification on their abdomens, and their eyes are inlaid with ceramic or shell shards. \"Bimbi\" typically have a small cavity between their legs, into which medicinal substances were inserted; this practice endowed the figures with protective powers. \n\nThe figure usually is upright with knees slightly bent, its large feet with carefully articulated toes standing on the base; the seated position occurs less frequently. Female statuettes have a pronounced, almost square, chin, a large nose and mouth, finely sculpted ears, and hair carved in relief on the forehead. The hands of male sculptures’ are typically turned toward one another and are carrying implements that represent the ancestor's profession in life.\n\n"}
{"id": "29215513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29215513", "title": "Blanke Bevrydingsbeweging", "text": "Blanke Bevrydingsbeweging\n\nThe White Liberation Movement (; abbreviated BBB) was a small but notorious South African neo-Nazi organisation which became infamous after being banned under the Apartheid regime, the first right-wing organisation to be so banned. It regarded itself as the most far-right organisation in South Africa.\n\nThe organisation was formed in June 1985 by Professor Johan Schabort. It started as the support organisation for Schabort's \"Blanke Party\" (White Party), which existed only in name. In June 1987 the BBB went public and sought to recruit members, aiming at both Afrikaners and British whites.\n\nIts honorary leader was Theuns Stoffberg, a former member of the Greyshirts. Another notable member was Keith Conroy, an Englishman who would later become Kommandant of the AWB's 'Iron Guard'.\n\nIn August 1987 Schabort attended and spoke at a commemorative service for Rudolf Hess organised by the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (AWB). The BBB would organise inflammatory meeting and marches. The BBB sought to link with international right-wing organisations.\n\nThe BBB ran a \"blatantly racist\" bilingual magazine \"Kommando: Stem van die Blankedom/Kommando: Voice of the White Race\" published by Alan Harvey. Harvey was deputy leader of the South Natal branch (its leader was Peter Smith); Harvey had previously published and edited the \"South African Patriot\" magazine in Durban, under the \"Patriotic Press\" imprint. This magazine carried advertisements of several far right organisations around the world, including David Duke’s the National Association for the Advancement of White People, \"National Vanguard\" magazine issued by the National Alliance, \"Instauration\" magazine, the British cultural magazine Heritage and Destiny, the National Front’s \"Nationalism Today\" (to which Harvey contributed both under his own name and under the pseudonym \"John Humphries\"), and \"NF News\". Harvey contributed to the BBB’s publication under his own name.\n\nThe BBB was banned, and restrictions were placed on the political activities of Schabort in November 1988, in reaction to the massacre of black people in Pretoria by\nBarend Strydom. This was the first time such restrictions had been placed on a right wing organisation. In banning the group Adriaan Vlok, the Law and Order Minister, said that the group were \"right-wing, fanatical extremists who favour violence to carry racism to its extreme\".\n\nIn December 1988 Schabort re-launched the BBB as the \"Blanke Nasionale Beweging\" (White National Movement) under the nominal leadership of Wynand de Beer; however as its activities were clearly the same as the BBB it was banned in the beginning of 1989.\n\nThe government lifted the ban on the BBB in February 1990.\n\nSchabort officially disbanded the BBB and the \"Blanke Party\" in 1990 and joined the Conservative Party. Some members of the BBB like Keith Conroy would go on to support the Afrikaner Volksfront.\n\nA few members, led by Jean Pierre du Plessis, sought to continue the BBB, with the BBB as the political wing to which would be added an underground organisation called the National Socialist Partisans (NSP). Schabort chose not to become involved. Du Plessis continued to form the NSP as a cell ; its flag was \"basically white with a red cross and a swastika\". NSP members were arrested in 1991 for the murder of three black people at Louis Trichardt.\n\nFollowing a bombing of a taxi rank in Germiston on 26 April 1994 which killed ten people it was claimed in the press that the BBB were responsible; Schabort denied the BBB was responsible\n\nThe Truth and Reconciliation Commission described the BBB's ideology as \"refined nazism\". Schabort himself described the organisation as \"openly racist\". It was white supremacist and against race mixing. The BBB regarded blacks as 'mud people' or 'mud race'. The BBB sought the 'repatriation' (expulsion) of blacks from South Africa, \"by violence if necessary\". It was openly anti-semitic, regarding Jews as existing between white and blacks, and denied the Holocaust. The BBB was against democracy and sought a new economic order.\n\nThe AWB criticised the BBB for being anti-Christian and atheistic; the BBB's tendency was towards the Church of the Creator. The BBB used the odal rune as its symbol.\n"}
{"id": "19155318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19155318", "title": "Bob Worthington", "text": "Bob Worthington\n\nRobert Eugene Worthington (January 31, 1936 – August 14, 2008) was the U.S. former honorary consul of the Cook Islands to the United States. Worthington also served as the director of financial and scholarship services at his alma mater, the Kamehameha Schools, from 1974 until 2003.\n\nAdditionally, Worthington served on the executive board of the Polynesian Voyaging Society and helped to organize the historic Hokule'a voyage from Hawaii to Tahiti in 1975. He also worked behind the scenes at a large number of other important Hawaiian and Polynesian cultural, educational, athletic and political institutions including the Festival of Pacific Arts, the East-West Center, Prince Kuhio Hawaiian Civic Club and Gates Millennium Scholars Program.\n\nBob Worthington was born in Laie on the island of Oahu on January 31, 1936. He attended the Kamehameha School for Boys boarding school, from which he graduated from in 1955. Worthington served as President of the student body during his senior year at Kamehameha.\n\nHe earned a scholarship to Occidental College in California where he received his bachelor's degree in political science.\n\nWorthington moved to the Cook Islands, where he married his Cook Islander wife, Jean Rereao Karika Worthington. He and his family returned to Hawaii in 1974.\n\nWorthington was considered to be an advocate of closer cultural ties between Hawaii and other Polynesian island nations, especially the Cook Islands, French Polynesia and New Zealand. He also advocated for a renewed interest in Polynesian and Hawaiian culture, even before the beginning of the Hawaiian Renaissance during the 1970s.\n\nWorthington became the director of financial services at the Kamehameha Schools in 1973. He remained in that position until his retirement in 2003. Under Worthington's guidance, the Kamehameha Schools established foreign exchange programs with Polynesian communities in the Cook Islands, New Zealand, American Samoa and French Polynesia. For example, he established links between the Kamehameha Schools and a Māori school in New Zealand. During Worthington's thirty year tenure as financial director, the Kamehameha Schools grew to administer over 15,500 scholastic awards totalling more than $25.4 million.\n\nWorthington placed significant importance on the establishment of cultural, political, artistic and economic ties between Hawaii and other parts of the Pacific, particularly Polynesia. During the 1980s, Hawaiians artists were not invited to take part in the Festival of Pacific Arts because Hawaii was considered to be too closely associated only with the United States. Worthington worked behind the scenes to promote the inclusion of Hawaiians in the Festival of Pacific Arts and today Hawaii is a full participant in the event, which takes place every four years.\n\nWorthington was appointed the honorary consul of the Cook Islands to the United States in 1985. His position, which was based in Hawaii, was formally recognized by the United States Department of State on March 19, 1985. Worthington, in his capacity as honorary consul, helped to promote tourism in the Cook Islands, expand ties with the United States including Hawaii, secure and negotiate landing rights in Rarotonga, and expand the Cook Islander papaya industry. He served as honorary consul for more than twenty years.\n\nIn early 2008, the Foreign Minister of Cook Islands Wilkie Rasmussen announced the closure of the Cook Islands consulate office in Hawaii, which was held by Worthington, due to rising costs and expenses.\n\nBob Worthington died in Honolulu, Hawaii, on August 14, 2008, at the age of 72. He was survived by his wife, Jean Rereao Karika Worthington; his five children - Teanaroa Paka Nakahili Worthington, Manavaroa Kamaki Worthington, Tapaarii Karika Ki'ilehua Worthington, Tevairangi Marae-Hino Pa'ahana Worthington Lopez and Moana Jean Karika Rule; and five grandchildren.\n\nWorthington's funeral and memorial service was held at the Princess Bernice Pauahi Bishop Memorial Chapel on the at the Kamehameha Schools in Kapalama, Hawaii. Guests, which included former Cook Islands Prime Minister Geoffrey Henry, came from as far away as New Zealand, Australia, Tahiti and the rest of United States. Worthington's ashes were sprinkled from the Hokule'a into the Pacific Ocean off Waikiki.\n\nA separate \"spiritual ceremony\" was held in honor of Worthington at the Taputapuatea marae on the island of Raiatea in French Polynesia. Worthington had been best known in French Polynesia for his part in the organization of the first Hawaii to Tahiti voyage of the Hokule'a Polynesian sailing canoe voyage in 1975 through the Polynesian Voyaging Society. Another memorial service was held for local Cook Islanders in Sinai Hall in the Cook Islands.\n\nThe former Prime Minister of the Cook Islands Geoffrey Henry, who attended Worthington's memorial service in Hawaii, spoke of his contributions to the Cook Islands, \"Bob was always there, incessantly helpful, with iconic efficiency, grace and enthusiasm. He helped secure the support of the governor of Hawaii, allowing us to establish our first office in the United States.\"\n\nCurrent Cook Islands Prime Minister Jim Marurai also issued a statement in reaction to Worthington's death saying, \"’Bob worked tirelessly for the Cook Islands, ensuring that we took full advantage of the close ties with Hawaii, especially in trade (maile leis), scholarships (University of Hawaii, East-West Center), training and various conferences and workshops.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3522645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3522645", "title": "Brahman languages", "text": "Brahman languages\n\nThe Brahman languages, Biyom and Tauya, form a subbranch of the Rai Coast branch of the Madang languages of Papua New Guinea. The family is named after the cattle station and town of Brahman, which lies between the territories of the two languages. \n\nJohn Z'graggen (1971, 1975) classified four languages as Brahman, Biyom, Faita, Isabi, Tauya.\nRoss (2005) broke up Brahman, placing Faita among the Sogeram languages (another sub-branch of Madang) and Isabi among the unrelated Goroka languages – a position followed by Usher (2018).\n"}
{"id": "35286921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35286921", "title": "Brenda Berkman", "text": "Brenda Berkman\n\nBrenda Berkman (born 1951) is a pioneering female firefighter. She filed the lawsuit that resulted in the first women being hired by the New York City Fire Department in 1982. In 1977 the FDNY used a physical test that all the women applying to be firefighters failed, including Berkman; she sued on the grounds of gender discrimination and won, and a new test was created in which standards were changed so the test was job-related. Berkman and 40 other women passed the new job-related test. (\"See Brenda Berkman, et al. v. The City of New York\", CV-79-1813, 536 F. Supp. 177 (E.D.N.Y. 1982), \"aff’d\" Berkman v. City of New York, 705 F.2d 584 (2d Cir. 1983.)) She joined the FDNY in 1982. The struggle of women to join the FDNY, and Berkman's part in it, was featured in a 2006 PBS documentary called \"Taking The Heat.\" Berkman was the founder of the United Women Firefighters, an organization for women in the FDNY, and was its president from 1982 until 1986. Her awards include: the Susan B. Anthony Award from the National Organization for Women (1984), a Revson Fellowship on the Future of the City of New York, from Columbia University (1987-1988), the Distinguished Alumni Award from St. Olaf College, and the Women of Courage Award from the National Organization for Women (2002).\n\nBerkman responded to the World Trade Center attacks, and in 2012 a self-portrait she created was exhibited at the 9/11 Decade Exhibit at the Westbeth Sculpture Gallery Annex. Her experience was also featured in the book \"Women at Ground Zero: stories of courage and compassion\".\n\nShe retired in 2006 at the rank of Captain.\n\nShe is openly lesbian, and was the first openly gay person to be a White House Fellow.\n"}
{"id": "39417990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39417990", "title": "Celedón", "text": "Celedón\n\nCeledón is a symbol of the villager native of Alava. Wearing a beret and dressed in a traditional blouse, always accompanied by an umbrella, the personage has been located by the historians in diverse environments. This man or personage opens the holidays of Vitoria-Gasteiz in the Basque province of Araba-Álava in Spain.\n\nCeledón's descent was invented in 1957 by a group of Vitorians anxious to offer the city a particular stamp. They created the decrease of the personage to establish an analogy between the doll and the peasants of the province who were approaching the city to celebrate the holidays.\n\nThe tradition affirms that it was born in Zalduondo, a small village of Alava, which in today give wine. They say that the personage was called Juan Celedonio de Anzola. Other investigators aim that Celedón was a brigadier of the Army Carlist born in Andagoya, whose name was Celedón Aguiluz. Since the personage of Celedón was created in 1957, four people have given the body to the legend: Jose Luis Isasi, who supported the title for 22 years, Enrique Oribe, who substituted in 1976, Iñaki Landa, who personified the villager of Zalduondo from 1980 until 2000, and Gorka Ortiz Urbina that made a début as Celedón in 2001.\n\nIn hindsight, Celedón's \"flight\" known by the people that live in Vitoria-Gasteiz, remains the passion for the Virgen Blanca Festivities of a villager of Zalduondo in the end of the 18th century. He was called Celedonio Alzola and apparently, was proclaimed as a protagonist of the holidays as soon as he got to Vitoria. He used to invite all the persons to go with him and to enjoy all together the celebrations and the holidays of the city. It is also believed that Celedonio lived in a street called \"The Shoe Store Street\" between 1796 and 1866 and was a very famous bricklayer that used to go to bars with his friends.\n\nIn 1957, a group of blouses designed the descent of a doll from the belfry of the Church of San Miguel up to the New Square to give the beginning of the holidays of the Virgen Blanca. The first descent was a fail so they decided to get a person to solve the problem and the idea was a success. The person who appeared was Jose Luis Isasi, in the Town hall of Vitoria. Since then only four people have been chosen by the squads of blouses and neskas who have personified Celedón or the villager of Zalduondo.\n\n2007 was the 50th anniversary of the descent of Celedón, which went down for the first time in the year 1957. In his first descent the rope broke, although this fact did not prevent Isasi going out to the balcony and giving the beginning to the holidays. On the 50th anniversary Gorka Ortiz de Urbina and Iñaki Landa made an emotive opening procession together, and in the balcony they resembled Isasi, who was away because of a serious disease.\n\nNowadays in the \"balconada\" of San Miguel it is possible to see Celedón's sculpture; this sculpture takes the face of Jose Luis Isasi Moltalbán, the first Celedón and one of the creators of Celedón's figure.\n"}
{"id": "14207810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14207810", "title": "Climate justice", "text": "Climate justice\n\nClimate justice is a term used for framing global warming as an ethical and political issue, rather than one that is purely environmental or physical in nature. This is done by relating the effects of climate change to concepts of justice, particularly environmental justice and social justice and by examining issues such as equality, human rights, collective rights, and the historical responsibilities for climate change. A fundamental proposition of climate justice is that those who are least responsible for climate change suffer its gravest consequences.\n\nThe term climate justice is also used to mean actual legal action on climate change issues. In 2017, a report of the United Nations Environment Programme identified 894 ongoing legal actions worldwide.\n\nThe ability of populations to mitigate and adapt to the negative consequences of climate change are shaped by factors such as income, race, class, gender, capital and political representation. As low-income communities and communities of color possess few if any adaptive resources, they are particularly vulnerable to climate change. People living in poverty or in precarious circumstances tend to have neither the resources nor the insurance coverage necessary to recover from environmental disasters. On top of that, such populations often receive an unequal share of disaster relief and recovery assistance.\n\nIn 2000, at the same time as the Sixth Conference of the Parties (COP 6), the first Climate Justice Summit took place in The Hague. This summit aimed to \"affirm that climate change is a rights issue\" and to \"build alliances across states and borders\" against climate change and in favor of sustainable development.\n\nSubsequently, in August–September 2002, international environmental groups met in Johannesburg for the Earth Summit. At this summit, also known as Rio+10, as it took place ten years after the 1992 Earth Summit, the Bali Principles of Climate Justice were adopted.\n\nIn 2004, the Durban Group for Climate Justice was formed at an international meeting in Durban, South Africa. Here representatives from NGOs and peoples' movements discussed realistic policies for addressing climate change.\n\nAt the 2007 Bali Conference, the global coalition Climate Justice Now! was founded, and, in 2008, the Global Humanitarian Forum focused on climate justice at its inaugural meeting in Geneva.\n\nIn 2009, the Climate Justice Action Network was formed during the run-up to the Copenhagen Summit. It proposed civil disobedience and direct action during the summit, and many climate activists used the slogan 'system change not climate change'.\n\nIn April 2010, the World People's Conference on Climate Change and the Rights of Mother Earth took place in Tiquipaya, Bolivia. It was hosted by the government of Bolivia as a global gathering of civil society and governments. The conference published a \"People's Agreement\" calling, among other things, for greater climate justice.\n\nOne contentious issue in debates about climate justice is the extent to which capitalism is viewed as its root cause. This question frequently leads to fundamental disagreements between, on the one hand, liberal and conservative environmental groups and, on the other, leftist and radical organizations. While the former often tend to blame the exesses of neoliberalism for climate change and argue in favor of market-based reform, the latter view capitalism with its exploitative traits as the underlying central issue.\n\nAccording to one study, Hurricane Katrina provided insights into how climate change disasters affect different people differently, as it had a disproportionate effect on low-income and minority groups. A study on the race and class dimensions of Hurricane Katrina suggests that those most vulnerable include poor, black, brown, elderly, sick, and homeless people. Low-income and black communities had little resources and limited mobility to evacuate before the storm. Also, after the hurricane, low-income communities were most affected by contamination, and this was made worse by the fact that government relief measures failed to adequately assist those most at risk.\n\nIn 2018, ten families from European countries, Kenya and Fiji filed a suit against the European Union for the threats against their homes caused by the EU greenhouse emissions.\n\nIn 2012, the Dutch lawyer Roger Cox gave the idea of judicial intervention to force action against climate change. In 2013, the Urgenda Foundation, with 900 co-plaintiffs, has filed a lawsuit against the Government of the Netherlands \"for not taking sufficient measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that cause dangerous climate change\".\n\nIn 2015, the District Court of The Hague ruled that the government of the Netherlands must do more to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to protect its citizens from climate change (Urgenda climate case). It was described as a \"precedent-setting judgment\" and as the \"world’s first climate liability suit\".\n\nAccording to James Thornton, chief executive of Client Earth, \"Most remarkably, it is based in essence on established science and the ancient principle of a government's duty of care. That reasoning is applicable in any legal system and will certainly be used by courts in other countries\".\n\nAfter the landmark ruling of the Netherlands in 2015, groups in other countries tried the same judicial approach. For instance, groups went to court in order to protect people from climate change in Belgium, India, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Switzerland and the United States.\n\nIn the United States, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace together with the cities of Boulder, Arcata and Oakland won against the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (state-owned enterprises of the United States government), which were accused of financing fossil-fuel projects detrimental to a stable climate, in violation of the National Environmental Policy Act (case filed in 2002 and settled in 2009).\n\nIn 2016, a government body of the Philippines (the Commission on Human Rights) launched an official investigation concerning climate change against 47 of the world's largest carbon producers.\n\nIn 2017, San Francisco, Oakland and other California coastal communities sued multiple fossil-fuel companies for rising sea levels. In 2018, the city of New York announced that it is taking five fossil fuel firms (BP, ExxonMobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips and Shell) to federal court due to their contribution to climate change (from which the city is already suffering).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25931839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25931839", "title": "Coast Veddas", "text": "Coast Veddas\n\nThe Coast Veddas (, ), by self-designation, form a social group within the minority Sri Lankan Tamil ethnic group of the Eastern province of Sri Lanka. They are primarily found in small coastal villages from the eastern township of Trincomalee to Batticalao. Nevertheless, they also inhabit a few villages south of Batticalao as well. They make a living by fishing, slash and burn agriculture, paddy cultivation of rice, basket weaving for market and occasional wage labor. Anthropologists consider them to be partly descended from the indigenous Vedda people, as well as local Tamils. Residents of the Eastern province consider their Vedar (Tamil for \"hunter\") neighbors to have been part of the local social structure from earliest times, whereas some Vedar elders believe that their ancestors may have migrated from the interior at some time in the past.\n\nThey speak a dialect of Sri Lankan Tamil that is used in the region. During religious festivals, people who enter a trance or spirit possession sometimes use a mixed language that contains words from the Vedda language. Most Vedar are Hindu Saivites and worship a plethora of folk deities, as well as the main Hindu deities such as Murugan, Pillaiyar and Amman. They also maintain the ancestor worship tradition of the interior Veddas. Clan divisions, if they still exist, do not play an important role in choosing of marriage partners or place of domicile. Most identify themselves as a caste among the Tamils as opposed to a separate ethnic group. Their economic conditions have been impacted by the Sri Lankan civil war.\n\nWestern observers such as James Emerson Tennent (1858) and Charles Gabriel Seligman (1911) have termed the social group Coast Veddahs, Coast Verdas or East Coast Veddas. Anthropologists have considered them to be at least partly descended from the Veddas of the interior of the island who had migrated at some unknown period in the past to the east coast, intermarrying with the local Tamils. Interior Veddas clans themselves have a number of divisions, each claiming either Sinhalese, Tamil, mixed, or pure Vedda lineages. Vedda identity also depends on whether these clans are hunter-gatherers or settled agriculturalists. Settled Veddas have tended over a period of time to assume Sinhalese or Tamil identity based on the area of residence. If considered a subdivision of Veddas, then they are by far the largest sub-group amongst the Vedda people. Residents of Eastern Province consider those who maintain a primitive life style, or are partly dependent on hunting and gathering, as Vedar without any connotations of ethnic origins.\n\nVedar are not designated as an indigenous community of Sri Lanka. They are placed within the Sri Lankan caste system. Vedar sometimes refer to themselves as \"Veda Vellalar\", thus claiming a high caste ranking (the Vellalar are given the highest ritual position within the caste structure of Sri Lankan Tamils in many regions). They also claim to marry into the higher castes of the neighboring region, such as Karaiyar. But some higher ranked castes did not consider Vedar quite their equals, although still placing them above the lower castes. Members of the Karaiyar caste sometimes downplayed their connections to Vedar as there was stigma attached to such unions. Field studies have indicated that mixed marriages across all caste groups of the eastern littoral was possible with Vedar. Vedar themselves claimed that they would not marry into lower Tamil castes such as Ambattar (barbers), Vannar (washerman) and Pallar (agricultural workers), but field studies indicated that such unions did sometimes take place.\n\nOnce a non-Vedar married into a Vedar family, he or she was assimilated as part of the Vedar village. Almost all Vedar families had an ancestor who was Tamil or a family member who was married to a Tamil from a neighboring village.\n\nSome Vedar have gradually lost most aspects of their aboriginal identity and culture and no longer identify themselves as Vedar. During the 1980s and 1990s, most Vedar families were displaced from their native villages due to the effects of the Sri Lankan civil war and were placed in refugee camps along with other Tamil refugees.\n\nAncestors of Vedar migrated to Sri Lanka via the Indian sub continent during the pre-historic period. A number of Mesolithic sites have been excavated containing human remains dated to 35,000 BCE. Anthropologists consider these skeletal remains to belong to a group ancestral to some of the surviving Vedar groups. Sri Lanka has also yielded Megalithic burial sites, one of which was excavated close to a present Vedar settlement, Kathiraveli. The precise time in which some of the Vedar lineage founders migrated to the east coast of Sri Lanka is unknown. The earliest written reference to Vedar is a Tamil chronicle, \"Nadukadu paraveni kalvettu\", which is maintained amongst the custodians of a prominent Hindu temple in the town of Tirukovil in the Ampara District. It is a Tamil 14th to 16th-century original text. The chronicle documents the presence of a people who practiced hunting and gathering for survival, exercising jurisdiction over vast jungle tracts close to the Akkaraipattu township. It names a number of Vedar chiefs, such as Kadariyan and Puliyan. These Vedars were not just hunter-gatherers, but were also accepted as the rightful owners of the forest lands.\n\nEmerson (1858) documented the presence of Vedar north of Eravur who subsisted by fishing or helping the traditional fisherfolk, as well by cutting wood for Muslim traders. He speculated that there were then at least 400 to 500 individuals in the group. He also recorded that it was the British colonial officers, as well as Weslyan missionaries who provided land for them to start cultivating yams and other vegetables.\n\nNeville (1890) and Seligman (1911) also documented the presence of a subdivision of Vedar called \"Kovil Vanam\" (\"Temple precincts\" in Tamil) within the southern edges of the Batticalo District; their name suggests they had originally lived in the jungles close to the Kataragama temple in the Hambantota District in the Southern Province. By the early 1900s these Vedar had mingled with the local Tamils and Sinhalese and were not encountered as a separate group any more. Local legends attribute the origins of some Hindu temples in the eastern province to the presence of Vedar. Important Hindu temples in villages such as Kokkadichcholai and Mandur have such Vedar creation legends. But Vedar are no longer associated with either the ownership or maintenance of these regionally important temples.\n\nInterior Veddas have clans called \"Waruge\" or \"Variga\" that were named after trees, animals or places of origin. Seligman speculated that these clans were territorial, thus hunting territory was divided amongst the clan, not to be violated by members of other clans. These clans were:\n\n\nAmong these, the Morana and Unapana clans claimed superior status to Namudana, Ambilo and Ura clans. Seligman reported that Morana and Unapana clans considered the other three as their servile groups, a classification strongly denied by the others. This also led to so-called servile groups denying such clan association when questioned and claiming Morana or Unapana clan origins.\n\nWhen Seligman inquired about the Waruge divisions of the Vedar, most of them did not remember their clan origins. Of those who remembered, most self-identified as Ura Waruge. Others mentioned clans such as Ogatam, Kavatam, Umatam, Aembalaneduwe and Aembale. They also had memories of other clans such as Morana and Unapana. By the 1980s the Vedar had no knowledge of any word \"Waruge\", although they vaguely used the Tamil term \"Vamisam\" (family origin) to indicate some division amongst them. Some had come up with a two-fold division of the Vedars based on the Kuti or matrilineal descent system popular in the East coast. These Kutis were supposed to have descended from former local chiefs called \"Vanniyar\", who had ruled feudal divisions called \"Vannimai\". But these clan divisions and related rules of endogamy were not totally followed by all Vedar, and there no practical prohibitions from marrying from each Kuti.\n\nAs with local Tamils, the preferred marriage pattern is based on cross cousin preference. Parallel cousins are considered brothers and sisters and are ineligible as partners. As most marriages take place between first and second cousins, clan endogamy even it is present is of no value. Within a village, most of the residents are related and this carries on over to villages that are three to five miles away as well. The longer the distance the more distantly are the villagers related to each other. Related lineages also maintain places of worship that are the private property of the family group.\n\nVedar are nominally Hindus; they were known to wear the marks of Saivite Hinduism such as Vibuthi (\"sacred ash\") on their forehead even in the 19th century. According to local legends, Vedars are considered to be the builders of most of the regional Hindu temples associated with Hindu high god Murugan. Although Vedars frequent regionally important Hindu temples and shrines associated with high Hindu deities such as Murugan, Pillaiyar and Siva, they propitiate local deities of folk Hinduism, who are sometimes unique to Veddars. Most of the folk deities are also commonly propitiated by other local Tamils such as Vairavar, Virapathirar, Kali and Narasingan. Seligman (1911) encountered two unique deities, Kapalpei (“Ship spirit”) and Kumara Deivam (“Young god”) who are peculiar to Vedar. The cult of Kappalpei is based on legends of foreigners coming over by ships and landing along the coast where the Vedar usually lived. They are propitiated to ward off evils and hard times. Kumara Deivam was also noted amongst the primitive Sinhalese village of Gonagolla in the Ampara District known as Kumara Devio. Jon Dart in the 1980s found that these deities were no longer worshipped, but were replaced by the Periyasami cult.\n\nThe worship pattern is a combination of Devil-dancing called \"Sandangu\" (\"ceremony\" in Tamil) and orthodox Hindu Agamic rituals. The devil-dancing is unique to Vedar, but the aspect of spirit possession as a part of devil dancing is not unique to Vedar. Locals Tamils also experience spirit procession and trance states during religious festivals. During devil-dancing ceremonies, related family groups congregate in family-owned worship centers and build platforms known as \"Pandals\". These Pandals may have a weapon, such a lance known as a \"Vel\", installed in their middle, a construction similar to the \"Kirikoroha\" function of the interior Veddas as well. Male family members dance throughout the night and as part of the ceremony some become possessed by spirits, sometimes those of their recently diseased family members. This pattern is similar in nature to the ancestor-worshipping patterns of the interior Veddas. Most of the Sadangu locations are temporary ones without related permanent structures over them, but some have been turned into temples. In the village of Palchennai, one of these temporary structures has become a temple now identified with Hindu high god Vishnu. Vedars also participate in Tamil folk dramas called \"Kuttus\" that depict scenes from Hindu epics such as Mahabharatha and Ramayana.\n\nVedar use the Sri Lankan Tamil dialect peculiar to the region, known as Batticaloa Tamil dialect, in their day to day conversations. Vedar children also study in that language in schools. During \"Sadangu\" ceremonies, those who are possessed by spirits speak in a mixed language that they call \"Vedar Sinkalam\"(Vedar Sinhala\") or \"Vedar Bhasai\" which is the Vedda language of the interior Vedas. This \"Vedar Sinkalam\" is mixed with many Tamil words, as people no longer know the language. There is evidence at some point in the past that the people were bilingual in Vedda language and Tamil, but that is no longer the case.\n\nNative chronicles have documented the presence of Vedar or Vedar-like people throughout the island from the beginning of the historic period. Vedar presence in the present Eastern province has been noted during the Kandyan Kingdom period (1469 to 1815). Tennent noted that Vedars were found chiefly from Eravur to Venloos Bay. The 1946 Sri Lankan census returned 44 Vedar villages. The largest concentration of villages was close to the Vaharai peninsula; predominantly Vedar villages there included Ammenthnaveli, Kandaladi, Komatalamadu, Palchennai, Puliyankandadi, Oddumadu, Thaddumunai, Uriyankadu, and Vammivattavan. Vedar are also found further south, in Panichankerni, Mankerni and Kayankerni. There are also Vedars close to Kalkudah, in a village called Pallanchenai, and in the Trincomalee District, between the towns of Muttur and Foul Point.\n\nNative chronicles such as \"Nadu Kadu Paraveni Kalvettu\" mention the socio-economic status of the Vedar as that of primitive hunter gatherers. The chronicles also mention that the chiefs amongst them received gifts such as clothes from settlers and state that the Vedar in turn provided meat and honey to the settler population, indicating a system of barter trade between the groups. Vedar also seem to have provided manual labor to clear forest lands, in exchange for an annual portion of the food crops harvested. When Tennent visited the east coast in 1858, the Vedar were living in houses that were made of mud and thatch. They were moved seasonally from place to place dependent on the availability of fish and other game. They were surviving primarily as fishermen, as well as wage laborers working for timber merchants, cutting and transporting timber from the forests. By the time Seligman visited them in 1911, he considered the Vedar subdivision to be economically better off than the rest of the Indigenous population of the interior. He attributed this to the assimilation of Tamil economic and cultural values by the Vedar clans, as well as to absorption of non-Vedar Tamils into Vedar families by intermarriage. Studies done in the 1980s by the anthropologist Jon Dart, indicated that Vedar in general were poorer than the rest of the Tamil and Muslim communities of the Eastern Province, which Dart attributed to their physical isolation in remote villages, as well as prevailing cultural norms that prevented them from fully integrating within the society. His studies did indicate that some Vedar had successfully integrated in Eastern society, with worldly possessions that did not much differ from those of their non-Vedar neighbors. The marked impact of the Sri Lankan civil war was also noted, due to the proximity of the Vedar's native villages to the theaters of operations of both rebel LTTE and government forces.(See Vaharai bombing)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56960", "title": "Demographics of Portugal", "text": "Demographics of Portugal\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Portugal, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nIn 2010 Portugal had 10,572,721 inhabitants.\n\nPortugal is a fairly linguistically and religiously homogeneous country. Ethnically, the Portuguese people are mainly a combination of ancient paleolithic populations, and the proto-Celtic, Celtic and Iberian tribes, para-Celtic Lusitanians. Some other groups, like the Romans, Germanic (Visigoths, Suevi, Buri, Alans and Vandals) and later the Moorish (Berber), Sephardic Jewish, and the French also passed through the country.\n\nToday, Ukrainians, Moldovans, Romanians, Russians, Bulgarians, Brazilians, and Venezuelans form the major foreign communities in the country. Members of PALOP countries (Portuguese-speaking African countries) are also immigrants and form communities in the country.. Portuguese is spoken throughout the country, with only the villages of Miranda do Douro's Mirandese language recognised as a locally co-official language.\n\nThe total fertility rate is the number of children born per woman. It is based on fairly good data for the entire period. Sources: Our World In Data and Gapminder Foundation.\n\n\n\n\nPortugal has traditionally been one of the most homogenous countries in the world but steady immigration has changed that to some extent.\n\nIt may be surprising to learn however, that much of this immigration has taken place over the last twenty years and back in 1992, just 1.3% of the Portugal population was made up of other nationalities. By 2007, however, that figure had risen to 4.1%.\nThe following demographic statistics are from the World Population Review.\n\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n<br>\n\n\n\n\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\n\n\n\n\nRoman Catholic 81%, other Christian 3.3%, other (includes Jewish, Muslim, other) 0.6%, none 6.8%, unspecified 8.3%\nnote: represents population 15 years of age and older (2011 est.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of 2001 Census, Portugal had two significant agglomerations: Lisbon Metropolitan Region (3.34 million inhabitants) and Northern Littoral Urban-Metropolitan Region (or Porto Metropolitan Agglomeration) with 2.99 million people, the later with a polycentric nature. These broader agglomerations are distinct from the political metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto – \"Grande Área Metropolitana de Lisboa\" (2,8 million) and \"Grande Área Metropolitana do Porto\" (1,8 million). Together they hold 43% of the total population.\n\nWhen considering the number of inhabitants in consistent single urban areas, de facto cities in mainland Portugal, per the new with increased density of human-created structures, and excluding suburban and rural areas, Portugal has two cities with about one million inhabitants each (Lisbon and Porto), ten others with more than 50,000 inhabitants and 14 cities with populations between 20,000 and 40,000 inhabitants.\n\n\"Note: the following table does not include cities in the Portuguese islands of Madeira and Azores in mid-Atlantic Ocean.\"\nPortugal has 151 localities with city status (\"cidade\"). Every city is included into a municipality (\"município\"). This is a list of population by city, which means that it refers to the number of inhabitants in the city proper, excluding inhabitants from the same municipality but living outside the urban area of the city in other civil parishes (\"freguesias\") of the municipality. In some cases, the entire municipality and the city proper cover the same territory.\n\n\"Denotes the number of inhabitants in the municipality area; area is in km; only for populations of over 100,000 inhabitants.\"\n\nThe main language is Portuguese. \"Mirandês\" (the Mirandese language), is also recognised, and has special protection in the area of Miranda do Douro.\n\nIn 1992, 1.3% of the population was foreign, by 2007 the number had grown to 4.1% or 435,736 people.\n\nSince the independence of the former African colonies, Portugal saw a steady immigration from Africa, most notably Cape Verde, Angola and Guinea-Bissau, but also São Tomé and Príncipe, Mozambique and former Portuguese India in Asia.\n\nPortugal saw migration waves due to labor shortages since 1999, first from Eastern Europe (1999–2002), in two distinctive groups, a \"Slav\" (Ukraine, Russia and Bulgaria) and an \"East Latin\" (Romania and Moldavia), that stopped and started declining as the labour market became saturated.\n\nSince 2003, most of the immigrants came from Brazil, China and the Indian subcontinent. Family reunification was seen as important for a successful integration in the country, thus the government eased it, and in 2006, more than 6 in 10 new immigrants were family members of legal foreign residents in the country.\n\nThere is also a significant number of elderly Western European residents in search of quality of life, namely from France, German, the Netherlands and United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2008, SEF, the foreigners and borders bureau, started using a new integrated information system, incompatible with previous statistics. The foreign population grew 1% from 435,736 in 2007 to 440,277. One in four immigrants is Brazilian.\n\nAnti-racism laws prohibit and penalize racial discrimination in housing, business, and health services. In 2007 approximately 332,137 legal immigrants live in the country, representing approximately 5% of the population. The country also has a resident Romani (Gypsy) population of approximately 40,000 people.\n\nDiscrimination against persons with disabilities in employment, education, access to health care, or the provision of other state services is illegal. The law mandates access to public buildings and to newly built private buildings for such persons.\n\nThe great majority of the Portuguese population belongs to the Roman Catholic Church. Religious observance remains strong in northern areas, with the population of Lisbon and southern areas generally less devout and strongly anticlerical. Religious minorities include a little over 300,000 Protestants and Mormons. There are also about 50,000 Muslims and 10,000 Hindus. Most of them came from Goa, a former Portuguese colony on the west coast of India (Some Muslims also came from former two Portuguese African colonies with important Muslim minorities: Guinea-Bissau and Mozambique). There are also about 1,000 Jews. Portugal is also home to less than 10,000 Buddhists, mostly Chinese from Macau and a few Indians from Goa.\n\n"}
{"id": "55811486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55811486", "title": "Ethiopians in Sweden", "text": "Ethiopians in Sweden\n\nEthiopians in Sweden are citizens and residents of Sweden who are of Ethiopian descent.\n\nAccording to Statistics Sweden, as of 2016, there are a total 17,944 Ethiopia-born immigrants living in Sweden. Of those, 6,225 are citizens of Ethiopia (3,319 men, 2,906 women). In 2016, there were 88 registered remigrations from Sweden to Ethiopia.\n\nAccording to Statistics Sweden, as of 2016, 20% of Ethiopia-born individuals aged 25 to 64 have attained a primary and lower secondary education level (17% men, 23% women), 44% have attained an upper secondary education level (42% men, 46% women), 14% have attained a post-secondary education level of less than 3 years (15% men, 12% women), 19% have attained a post-secondary education of 3 years or more (23% men, 16% women), and 3% have attained an unknown education level (2% men, 3% women).\n\nAccording to Statistics Sweden, as of 2014, Ethiopia-born immigrants aged 25-64 in Sweden have an employment rate of approximately 64%. The share of employment among these foreign-born individuals varies according to education level, with employment rates of around 47% (49% males, 46% females) among Ethiopia-born individuals who have attained a primary and lower secondary education level (2,587 individuals), 70% (70% males, 71% females) among those who have attained an upper secondary level (5,739 individuals), 68% (68% males, 67% females) among those who have attained a post-secondary education level of less than 3 years (1,800 individuals), and 70% (67% males, 76% females) among those who have attained a post-secondary education level of 3 years or more (2,434 individuals).\n\nAccording to the Institute of Labor Economics, as of 2014, Ethiopia-born residents in Sweden have an employment population ratio of about 53%. They also have an unemployment rate of approximately 9%.\n"}
{"id": "5052053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5052053", "title": "Georgian emigration in Poland", "text": "Georgian emigration in Poland\n\nThe documented ties between Georgia and Poland reach back to the 15th century, when the Georgian (Kartlian) Constantine I sent a diplomatic mission to the Polish King Alexander Jagiellon. Later, Polish King Jan III Sobieski tried to establish contacts with Georgia. Many Georgians participated in military campaigns led by Poland in the 17th century.\nBogdan Gurdziecki, a Georgian, who was the greatest authority on all things Persian working in the Polish king's diplomatic service, made frequent diplomatic trips to Persia, on which he obtained, among other things, guarantees upholding earlier privileges for missionaries. Already during the rule of King Jan Kazimierz, he sent on missions to Isfahan, and King Jan III Sobieski availed himself of Gurdziecki's talents in like manner (in 1668, 1671, 1676–1678, in 1682–1684, and in 1687). Gurdziecki remained at the court of the shah for several years in the capacity of special resident and representative of the Polish king; it was he who delivered to the shah Suleiman news about the victory of the Christian forces at Vienna (1683).\n\nSeveral Georgian politicians, intellectuals and military officers left Georgia for Poland after the Soviet armies invaded the Democratic Republic of Georgia (DRG) in February 1921, taking over the government and establishing the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic in the same March. Although not very numerous and consisting of a few hundred members, the Georgian community of Poland was very active politically and culturally. The best remembered are, however, the Georgian military personnel who served in the Polish ranks from the early 1920s until the end of World War II.\n\nActive diplomatic contacts developed between the short-lived DRG and Poland was part of Józef Piłsudski's well-known political concept known as Prometheism. Its aim was to greatly reduce the power of the Russian Empire and subsequently, the Soviet Union, by supporting nationalist independence movements of the major non-Russian peoples that lived within the borders of Russia or the Soviet Union. \n\nThe Georgian Promethean groups were one of the most active within the movement. This was not overlooked by the Bolsheviks, who in 1930 organized the assassination of Noe Ramishvili, a prominent Georgian political leader and a major promoter of Prometheism.\n\nThe 1932 Polish-Soviet mutual nonaggression pact precipitated the downfall of the Promethean movement though the Georgians continued their activities in various cultural and social organizations. The most important was the Committee of Georgia founded as early as 1921 by several Georgian intellectuals led by Sergo Qurulashvili. They had close contacts with the centers of Georgian political emigration across Europe, primarily in Paris. The Committee organized various meetings and social activities and provided material support for the Georgian émigrés. It also published its own publications, \"ProGeorgia\" (1922), and \"Propartia\" (1923). From 1923 to 1924, Qurulashvili also directed the journal \"Schlos Wschodu\" pertaining to the Georgian problems. The Georgians organized also the Union of Georgian Students and the Polish-Georgian Society led by Prince Pavle Tumanishvili. The activities of these organizations were limited, however, due to financial difficulties.\n\nImmediately after the fall of the DRG, Noe Zhordania, the head of the Georgian government-in-exile, addressed the friendly nations, particularly France, Greece and Poland, to help in maintaining the professional military cadres. The government of Poland promptly responded, and from 1922 to 1924, hundreds of Georgian Junkers and officers, recommended by Zhordania’s government, were accepted in the Polish military schools. Several professional officers of the former DRG attended military training courses at the Polish army centers. Although not obligated to do so, virtually all of them were subsequently enrolled in the Polish army as contract officers. In the subsequent decade, the total number of Georgian military servicemen reached 1,000. \nAt the outbreak of World War II, most of the Georgian officers took part in the 1939 Defensive War, and several of them commanded their own regiments composed of Polish soldiers. The most notable officers were:\n\nZakaria Bakradze, generał dywizji, deputy commander of Polish 15th Infantry Division.\nAleksandre Chkheidze, generał brygady, deputy commander of Polish 16th Infantry Division.\nIvane Kazbegi, generał brygady.\nAleksandre Koniashvili, generał brygady.\nKirile Kutateladze, generał brygady.\nAleksandre Zakariadze, generał brygady.\nViktor Lomidze, the commander of .\nJerzy Tumaniszwili, captain of the navy, who was awarded Virtuti Militari.\nValerian Tevzadze, podpułkownik, the commander of the northern sector of the Polish defences during the siege of Warsaw.\nMikheil Kvaliashvili, major, the commander of a cavalry battalion within the 15th Uhlans Regiment.\n\nSeveral Georgian officers were captured by the Soviet forces during the 1939 campaign. General Chkheidze, Major Mamaladze, Captain Skhirtladze and Captain Rusiashvili were killed during the infamous Katyn Massacre, from 1940 to 1941. Many others spent several years in the gulag camps. \n\nDuring the occupation of Poland, the Germans reorganized the Warsaw-based Committee of Georgia and placed it under their tight control. The occupation administration encouraged the Georgian soldiers in the Polish service to join the Georgian Legion of the Wehrmacht. Some of them responded to the Nazi request, but subsequently joined the Polish resistance movement. The notable Georgian Orthodox priest and Professor Grigol Peradze of Warsaw University ended his life in the Auschwitz concentration camp (1942), when he deliberately entered a gas-chamber instead of a Jewish prisoner who had a large family.\n\nThe American John Malchase David Shalikashvili, general of the United States Army who served as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1993 to 1997, was born in Warsaw, Poland, where his father also served in the army.\n\nAfter the war, most Georgians either left for Western Europe or were deported to the Soviet camps though some of them (e.g., General V. Tevzadze) remained in the Polish anti-Communist underground for several decades.\n\n"}
{"id": "49126335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49126335", "title": "Gona Ganna Reddy", "text": "Gona Ganna Reddy\n\nGona Ganna Reddy (1262-1296AD), son of Gona Budda Reddy who contributed Ranganatha Ramayanam as Dwipada kavyam in Telugu Language and a soldier to one of the few ruling queens Rani Rudrama Devi in Indian history. He ruled Vardhamaana puram now called as Nandi vaddeman in Nagarkurnool district. \n\nGona Ganna Reddy has 2 brothers and 1 sister. They were poets : Gona Kacha Reddy, Gona Vitalanatha and Kuppambika. Gona Kacha Reddy and Vitalanatha contributions include the completion of Utttakaanda in Ranganatha Ramayanam (First and foremost Ramayanam written in Telugu literature by Gona Budda Reddy). His sister, Kuppambika is known to be the first Telugu poetess as per Buddapuram inscriptions. Kuppambika got married to Malyala Gundadandadeeshudu ( also known as Danda Senani).\n\nGona Ganna Reddy married his love of life Annaambika,best friend of Rudramadevi. A 400-page Kakatiya historical novel was written by Adavi Baapiraju in 1946.\n\nKhilla Ghanpur, a town in South Telangana near Mahabubnagar and Wanaparthy, also known as Ganapuram, is named after him and the Kakatiya king Ganapati Deva. He constructed several lakes with the help of his brother-in-law Danda Senani during Kakatiya's rule. After Gona Ganna Reddy's death, His brother-in-law, Danda Senani, became the king of Vardhamaanapuram. \n\nAfter Buddapuram (Present Bhoothpur) war,Kakatiya's king Prataparudra-II married Gona Ganna Reddy's daughter at Khilla Ghanpur fort.\n\nIn 2015 film \"Rudhramadevi\", Allu Arjun portrayed Gona Ganna Reddy's role.\n"}
{"id": "10423924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10423924", "title": "Hamat", "text": "Hamat\n\nHamat is a village in Lebanon. It is located 287 meters atop the historic cape of Theoprosopon. It is home to the historic shrine and monastery of Our Lady of Nourieh. The village is also home to Saint Elias Church, which overlooks the Jawz River, or the River of Walnuts and the ancient Phoenician coastal town of Batroun. The locals are Orthodox Christians.\n\n"}
{"id": "34202638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34202638", "title": "Harifal", "text": "Harifal\n\nThe Harifal (Urdu حریفال حریف ال) are a Pashtun tribe inhabiting the Sherani District in the Balochistan province of Pakistan, and, to a lesser extent, the surrounding districts of Afghanistan. The tribe mostly populates the western slopes of Shinghar, a mountain in the Suleiman Range, though a considerable number reside in the Zhob District. There is also a scattered population in the Duki subdivision of Loralai District, Sanjavi subdivision of the Ziarat District, a small population in Quetta, and some in Zarkanai Daraban of Dera Ismail Khan district. The word \"Harifal\" is also transliterated as Airf Aal, Haripal, and Hurreepaul.\n\nThe two union councils of Sherani district, Shinghar Harifal south with 23 villages (13,883 people) and Shinghar Harifal north with 31 villages (12,228 people), are altogether occupied by the Harifal tribe. The main bulk of the tribe lives in clusters of villages in the central block of Mt. Shinghar. The Harifal tribe is relatively small and tractable compared to other tribes.\n\nThe total voters of the Harifal tribe is numbered at 8,728, and gender-wise breakup is as follows: male: 4,797 and female: 3,931.\nThere is an ancestral link between the Harifal and the Shirani tribe, but the Harifal is considered separate.\n\nThe term Harifal has undergone etymological change. As it is pronounced in the manner favoured by Pathan/Afghan.\nHarifal, in Pashto, is the corrupted form of \"Arif Aal\", meaning progeny of Arif, the founder of the tribe. The actual name of this eponymous ancestor was \"Arif-Ullah\". The word Harifal has undergone change over time, and so it has been variously transliterated as Arif Aal, Haripal, and Harifal. These words are all homophones but heterographs, and Harifal is the most correct one. \n\nUnder Arif's leadership, the Shiranis sent a portion of their tribe to occupy Bargha. Arif later married a Shirani women (according to tradition, his second wife and the mother of the Ibrahikhail sub-tribe), and thus became the eponymous ancestor of the Harifal tribe.\n\nThis account is corroborated by Olaf Caroe, who wrote that \"the genealogies frequently supply actual confirmation of observable differences today.\"\n\nAn account of the warlike nature of the Harifal and Sherani tribes is given by the Scottish historian Mountstuart Elphinstone in his book \"An account of the kingdom of Caubul, and its dependencies in Persia, Tartary, and India: comprising a view of the Afghaun nation, and a history of the Dooraunee monarch\", \"The Sheeraunees [Sheranis] are at war with all the tribes that pass through their country in their annual migrations. They may, indeed, be said to be at war with all the world, since they plunder every traveller that comes within their reach; and besides, make incursions into parts of Damaun, with the inhabitants of which they have no quarrel. While I was in their neighbourhood, they stopped the body of a Dooraunee of rank, which was going through their country to be buried at Candahar, and detained it till a ransom had been paid for it.\"\n\nHowever, due to the influence of legendary accounts of Arif's peaceful nature, the Harifal restrained their warlike nature and became relatively docile. The Harifal are more quiet and industrious, and their habits are decidedly averse from the system of violence pursued by other tribes. In personal bravery and endurance of privation and hardship, they are esteemed superior to other inhabitants around. In manner they are mild, inoffensive and tenacious in respectability.\n\nMountstuart Elphinstone (1779–1859) says \"The tribes of Hurreepaul (sic) and Kuppeep resemble the Sheeraunees, of which tribe they are branches; and their residence is in the hills and valleys at the western base of Tukhti Solimaun. To the north of the Hurreepaul is the country near the junction of the Gomul and Zhobe, sometimes pastured on by wandering Cankers. North of it is Wauneh, a low plain situated on the hills that slope down to the valley of the Gomul.\"\n\nAccording to \"Baluchistan Through the Ages\", \"The Haripals claim a Saiad descent, and allege that their progenitor, Harif, was a Saiad from Pishin, who migrated to the Shirani country, married a Shirani woman, and was affiliated with the Shiranis\".\n\nHerbert Benjamin Edwardes says \"It is by the Zirkunnee Pass that caravans go to Kandahar. About five or six miles to the south of the Zirkunnee Pass, is the Pass of Drabund, the mouth of which is about eight miles from Drabund itself. Not very far from midway between the town and the Pass of Drabund, but rather nearer to the latter, are ruins of the former fort of Akhoond Gool Hubeeb. This Akhoond, I was informed, belonged to a tribe called Hurrial, connected with the Sheraunees; the same probably as that of 'Hurreepaul,' mentioned by Mr. Elphinstone as a branch of the Sheraunees, residing 'in the hills and valleys at the western base of Tukht-e-Sulaiman'.\"\n\nQazi Abdul Haleem Asar Afghani (1910-1987), a well known Pashto writer (District Mardan, Tehsil Takht Bhai) holds that \"Harifal is a minor tribe living in and around Daraban amongst Sheranis. In the twelfth generation of this tribe was a renowned saint by the name of Sheikh Ahmed Zinda-pir.\n\nSheikh Ahmed Zinda-pir had five sons; eldest among them was Sadar-ud-din, who later became famous by the name of Sheikh Sadar-ud-din Sadar Jahan; an erudite and noted Sufi saint. He migrated to India to spread the word of Islam. In India he reached \"Malir Kotla and settled there. Sheikh later married daughter of Sultan Behlul Lodhi. This gave much impetus to his reputation. Stories of Hazrat Shaikh's erudition and piety spread far and wide and gradually Malerkotla became the seat of Sufism in India.\"\n\nShaikh Sadar Ud-din also known as Haidar Shaikh was born at Daraban, the winter dwellings of the Harifal tribe, in 1437. In 1449, he reached Multan and became the disciple of Baha-ud-din Zakariya. When his master was sure that his disciple was well versed in spirituality, he asked him to go out and help humanity. The Sheikh chose a raised mound near the old village of Maler to build his hut, and there he used to spend his time in prayer.\n\nOne distinguished member of this family was Zulfiqar Ali Khan who, although not a nawab, was a figure in the literary history of the riyasat. A close friend of allama Muhammad Iqbal, he was the author of the first biography of the famous poet, titled \"A Voice from the East\".\n\nStanley Reed (28 January 1872 – 17 January 1969) was a British Conservative Party politician and an important figure in the media of India in the early 20th century. He claims; that Maler kotla's ruling family, though famed as Pathan, is actually Sayyid in its origin, for its ancestral progenitor was Sayyid Husain who migrated from Ghaur during the reign of caliph Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan (646–705 the 5th Umayyad Caliph) and settled in the region neighboring `Kooh-e-Sulaiman.\n\nThe Harifal tribe lives on Shinghar, which are separated from the Sulaiman Mountains by the valley of Lahar. The main peak of Shinghar is 9,273 feet above sea level, and the mountain extends from Kurchpina in the north to Sulyazai valley in the south. With relation to nearby towns, is to the west of the Takht-e-Sulaiman, and about 50 km east of Zhob. The Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation has reported finding significant coal deposits near Shinghar. The average elevation of Harifal territory is 2,043 meters from sea level.\n\nHarifal territory is situated 372 kilometers south west of the capital, Islamabad. The location is sparsely populated, with 21 people per square kilometer.\n\nThe predominant form of vegetation in the area is the olive tree, though Ephedra is also abundantly found in Harifal territory. Known locally as \"oman,\" the plant was once purchased in large quantities by Quetta Marker Company.\n\nThere is also a dense forest of edible pine (Pinus gerardiana) (In Urdu چلغوزا پائن) which covers the mountains, growing at an elevation from 1800 meters to 3350 meters.\n\nThe nearby village of Ghwanza contains a shrine of the Sufi saint Hazrat Babakr Nika Harifal, which is frequently visited by pilgrims.\n\nHarifal territory is in a very strong (vii) earthquake zone, with occurrences of earthquakes at 6-7 on the Richter magnitude scale.\n\nHarifal has an arid (0.05 - 0.2 p/pet) climate. Land area is not cultivated; most of the natural vegetation is still intact. The landscape is mostly covered with closed to open grassland. There is a moderate occurrence of periods with extreme drought. Additionally, flood risk is low.\n\nThe climate is classified as a subtropical steppe (low-latitude dry), with a subtropical thorn wood land biozone.\n\nWeather varies according to the locality, and the heat or the cold is felt in different spots in the same latitude with very different degrees of intensity, according to the configuration of the country. Winter is mild; on the plain the snow melts as it falls, and does not lie long even on the summits of the mountains. In general the temperature is moderate. September is on average the month with most sunshine. Rainfall and other precipitation have no distinct peak month.\n\nThe Harifal are divided into clans, the clans into sections and sections into subsections.\n\nAccording to the 1901 census, the population of Harifal was 1,593, with the following divisions of sub-tribes: Ibrahikhail (180), Hamakzai (sic)(5), Hasankhail (706), Naqibkhail (630), and Umerzai (3).\n\nAccording to the 1998 census its population is 36,111. An estimated 5.64% of the children below 5 years old are underweight, with a mortality of 66 per 1,000 births.\n\nThe following is a list of important local villages.\n\nKazha Malizai: Located in north Shinghar Harifal Union Council.\n\nThere are three intermittent streams in the vicinity of this village called Band Algad, Tawa Khwazha, and Pasta Khwara. Kazhha Malezai is populated by Malezai sub section of Harifal tribe. During the summer season they migrate to the upper highland area called Psha.\n\nTarai Malizai: Located in north Shinghar. This village is also populated by the Malizai sub-tribe of the Hasankhail Harifal. Various streams and mountains populate the area. Pungai Oba, Satuna mountain, and Pastuke mountain are all within 4 km from Tarai Malaizai.\n\nQumai: Populated by Malizai. There are three important mountains; Pare Ghar, Tatai mountain, and Tabela ghar. Important streams are Lakarai and Sarwakai khwara. A ridge, Shache Kili, is situated four km from the village.\n\nIbrahimkhail: Ibrahimkhail is the centre of Harifal country and is located in north Shinghar Harifal.\n\nRagha Sir Nikan: Located in south Shinghar Harifal.\n\nDraykhanzai: Located in south Shinghar.\n\nBabakarzai\n\nBhaizhie: Located east of Shingar\n"}
{"id": "26240028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26240028", "title": "Heath Bunting", "text": "Heath Bunting\n\nHeath Bunting is a contemporary British artist born in 1966. Based in Bristol, he is the founder of the site irational.org (with Daniel García Andújar, Rachel Baker and Minerva Cuevas) and was one of the early practitioners in the 1990s of Net.art . Bunting's work is based on creating open and democratic systems by modifying communications technologies and social systems. His work often explores the porosity of borders, both in physical space and online. In 1997, his online work \"Visitors Guide to London\" was included in the 10th documenta website projects curated by Swiss curator Simon Lamunière.\nAn activist, he created a dummy site for the \"European Lab for Network Collision\" (CERN) and works to maintain a list of pirate radio stations in London.\n\nCreated in 1998, _readme.html (\"Own, Be Owned or Remain Invisible\") is a work of net.art that spoke to the time period in which it was created, and yet still remains relevant to the contemporary moment. The piece is a simple web page with a white background and light grey text taken from an article about Heath Bunting. A vast majority of the words are hypertext, but not all. As coded for by simple HTML attributes, hyperlinked words turn from grey to black once visited.\n\nIn \"Own, Be Owned or Remain Invisible\" Bunting makes use of appropriation. The work utilises an article about Heath Bunting written by James Flint of \"The Telegraph\". Instead of presenting the article in its traditional form, Bunting links nearly every word to [insert word].com and alters the color-scheme of the document as per his white-on-white period.\n\n\"Own, Be Owned or Remain Invisible\" addresses the commercialisation of the Internet. By clicking one of the hyperlinked words, the reader is transported to the domain, which may or may not be owned. At the time of this work's creation, 1998, many of the domain names were not owned, but are registered today. In contrast, some domain may have been owned in the past twelve years, but are no longer owned any more, thereby touching on the transience of Internet ownership. Bunting's work also shows the range of banal or absurd domain names that companies have purchased. Not all words in the article are hyperlinked, however. Bunting effectively takes ownership of the following words by leaving them as normal text:\nThrough these words he spells out how the article touches on his own identity.\n\nIn a 1997 interview, Bunting was quoted as saying the issue with the internet at the time was visibility vs. invisibility. This topic is addressed in _readme.html through the work's color scheme and use of hypertext. Before clicking on a hyperlinked word, the text of the article all appears light grey. However, clicking on a link changes that word's color to black. Additionally, all subsequent occurrences of the word turn to black, thereby making the domain much more visible on the page. Visibility is a relevant issue in current internet culture with concerns over what is public vs. private on the internet, SEM marketing tactics and search engine sophistication. If all links in _readme.html (\"Own, Be Owned or Remain Invisible\") are clicked, the only words that are left as light grey are those describing the identity of Heath Bunting, suggesting that he, himself, chooses to \"remain invisible.\"\n\nCommunications and networking took center stage in Heath Bunting's 1994 performative art project entitled \"King’s Cross Phone-In.\" On Friday, 5 August 1994, Bunting orchestrated a scheme that involved many people calling public phones in and in the surrounding area of London King's Cross railway station. On his then-website Cybercafe.org, founded in 1992, Bunting posted the phone numbers to all of the public phones and encouraged his followers to do one of the following: call in a pattern, call at a certain time, call and speak to a stranger, or show up and pick up the telephone. Bunting used his website as an informative source to let his readers know how to partake in his project.\n\nWhen 5 August arrived, Bunting went to King’s Cross to pick up telephone calls. Many people called in and he witnessed as casual passers-by engaged in conversations with strangers who were perhaps halfway across the world. The project brought people together, if only for a few brief moments, to create a network through the communication medium of telephones. In Digital Humanities, a class by Professor Michael Shanks at Stanford University, the project is described: “the train station was transformed into an art platform and the unsuspecting commuters and workers in the area became the audience.” After the phone-in art was completed, Bunting reported back to his followers about the experience on his website and encouraged others to do the same. All of these are still available at Irational.org.\n\nThis is an early example of a flash mob and instigating action through a then-passive medium. Bunting's work has been compared to the work of Allan Kaprow, one of the pioneers in performance art.\n\nCommissioned by the TATE of Britain and the Luxembourg-based Fondation Musée d'Art Moderne Grand-Duc Jean (MUDAM) in 2002, Borderxing details ways to cross international borders throughout Europe without legal documentation. It provides video, photography, maps, and necessary materials on the project website. It demonstrate how to succeed without being located by dogs, and when not to run to avoid being shot. There is even a supplemental botanical guide so you can avoid poisonous plants.\n\nBunting reveals that restriction of movement set in place by governments and bureaucracies. The project shows not only the restriction of physical borders, but the concept that the internet is not a borderless space. Bunting limits access to the project. You must be at a designated location to access the site or apply to be an authorized client.\n\n"}
{"id": "1281330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1281330", "title": "Hellenic Football Federation", "text": "Hellenic Football Federation\n\nThe Hellenic Football Federation (HFF), also known as the Greek Football Federation (), is the governing body of football in Greece. It contributes in the organisation of Superleague Greece and organizes the Greek Cup and the Greece national team. It is based in Athens.\n\nThe Hellenic Football Federation (HFF) was founded on 14 November 1926 by a decision of the three major Unions of the country: Athens, Piraeus and Thessalonica. Its foundation marked the organization of Greek football in compliance with international standards. Since then, the HFF has grown into the biggest sports federation in Greece, as football in the country is regarded as the \"king of sports\" coming first in the preferences of sports fans.\n\nThe HFF is considered a private legal entity and a non-profit organization with registered offices in Athens. It is the only exclusively qualified body in Greece to represent the interests of Greek football and prohibits any political, religious or racial discrimination.\n\nIn 1927, the HFF became a member of FIFA and in 1954 became one of the first members of UEFA. Amongst its obligations as member of international sports bodies, the HFF accepts the statutes, regulations, directives and decisions issued by FIFA and UEFA. The HFF also has to ensure that they are accepted by all individuals and clubs in Greek football.\n\nOn 3 July 2006, FIFA ruled the HFF was failing to adhere to the principles of the FIFA statutes regarding FIFA's political independence. Accordingly, the HFF was indefinitely suspended from international football. In response, Greek officials proposed a change in FIFA's law. However, FIFA ruled it too constituted an interference of the government in matters that should be under the football federation's jurisdiction. As such, FIFA concluded Greece would not be able to meet its 15 July 2006 deadline and should therefore be suspended until further notice. The suspension would have meant Greek clubs would not be allowed to participate in international competitions, and that the Greece national team would not be able to participate in international matches. There were also doubts cast over whether the 2007 UEFA Champions League final will be played at Athens' Olympic Stadium as previously scheduled.\n\nHowever, on 7 July 2006, the Greek government ratified a new version of the sports law, granting the HFF independence and therefore adherence to FIFA's laws. FIFA announced the lifting of its ban that day, judging that the amendments adhered to FIFA and UEFA statutes. This allowed Greece to participate in UEFA Euro 2008 and also allowed Greek clubs to participate in European competitions.\n\nOn 11 December 2008, HFF president Vassilis Gagatsis resigned from his position after an eight-year tenure. New elections were held on 17 January 2009, making Giorgos Sarris the new president. However, Sarris' election was controversial, with reports claiming the election was not fair and that Olympiacos owner Evangelos Marinakis had allegedly using his power to help appoint Sarris.\n\nIn April 2013, the HFF announced its new partnership with Nike, which also became the official supplier of clothes and equipment for the Greece national team. On the eve of the announcement, Giorgos Sarris praised the new partnership hoping that \"it will contribute to the overall advancement of domestic football\".\n\n\nThe HFF has organised major football events with success. The most important \"moments\", as to the participating clubs, are:\n\n\nThe incident first came to light after UEFA issued a report, which drew attention to 40 matches that were rigged in Greek football in the 2009–10 season. The initial probe into the incident involved approximately 80 individuals suspected of wrongdoing. Olympiacos owner Evangelos Marinakis was also accused of using his position in Greek football and special relationship with the president of the HFF, to appoint favorable referees to matches. Marinakis was later acquitted from all charges by the Prosecutor and the Council of Judges and the decision is final.\n\nIn February 2012, the Superleague Greece, with the agreement of the HFF, replaced the two football prosecutors (Fakos and Antonakakis) with two others (Petropoulos and Karras).\n\nThe 2015 Greek football scandal emerged on 6 April 2015 when prosecutor Aristidis Korreas' 173-page work was revealed. Telephone tapping operated by the National Intelligence Service of Greece since 2011 has played a significant role in the case. According to the prosecutor's conclusion, Olympiacos owner Evangelos Marinakis along with HFF members Theodoros Kouridis and Georgios Sarris, were suspected of directing a criminal organization since 2011. The goal behind their scheme was allegedly to \"absolutely control Greek football's fate by the methods of blackmailing and fraud\", exploiting the self-governing (\"autonomy\") status of national football federations promoted by FIFA and UEFA. \n\nIn 2016, a temporary administration was placed by FIFA and UEFA due to the scandal.\n\nOn 28 December 2017 an envelop with a bullet was sent to the new president Evangelos Grammenos.\n\nThe HFF has also been subject to allegations of other crimes, including blackmail and tax evasion. In November 2013, a team of prosecutors raided the headquarters of the HFF in order to find evidence of illegal activity. There have been allegations some of the teams have failed to pay their taxes by submitting fake documents.\n\nSince 2015, the HFF has also been under judicial investigation regarding the existence of a \"pyramid's economic scheme\" in the Greek referees' society.\n\nGiorgos Girzikis, ex-president of the HFF, is also under penal prosecution for three felony economic crimes.\n\nThe structure of the HFF is pyramid shaped. It is based on 2,000,000 football players and 5,773 football clubs, 3,700 from which are actively participating in official competitions of every kind, which take place throughout the country, covering all ages. The clubs come under the 53 Regional Unions of Football Clubs. The professional competitions are being organized by the Professional League (Greek League). The HFF is the supreme football authority, the one that all the clubs and professional teams come under and forms the top of the pyramid.\n\nThe General Assembly, convening once a year, is actually the HFF parliament. It is the Assembly that, according to the Statutes, decides on everything about Greek football. They can change the Statutes and the regulations of the Federation, enforce new ones, audit the financial review for the previous fiscal year and the budget for the year to come, vote (every four years) and monitor the Administration's work.\n\nThe divisions of H.F.F. are: The Sporting Division, the Management Division, the Finance and Marketing Division, the International Relations Division, and the Press and Mass Media Division.\n\nThe operation of H.F.F. relies on the above-mentioned divisions that function on the responsibility of their respective managers, as much as, the Committees of the Executive Board, which, according to the Statutes of the Federation, are the following:\n\n\n1. Regulations Committee<br>\n2. International Relations Committee<br>\n3. Technical Committee<br>\n4. Greek Cup Committee<br>\n5. Procurements Committee<br>\n6. Divisions Committee<br>\n7. Selections Team Committee<br>\n8. Mass Media and Public Relations Committee<br>\n9. Legal Matters Committee<br>\n10. Violence Committee<br>\n11. Medical Committee<br>\n12. International Amateur Football Committee<br>\n13. Amateur Football Committee<br>\n14. Licensing Committee<br>\n15. Football Managers Committee<br>\n16. Training Board<br>\n17. Futsal (indoor football) Committee<br>\n18. Finance Committee<br>\n19. Statistics and Stadium Committee<br>\n20. Youth Amateur Football Committee<br>\n21. Women's Football Committee\n\nThe H.F.F. is responsible for doping control in all the Greek championships. \n\n\n\n\nBelow are the presidents of HFF:\n"}
{"id": "5269364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5269364", "title": "Hip hop activism", "text": "Hip hop activism\n\nHip hop activism is a term coined by the hip hop intellectual and journalist Harry Allen. It is meant to describe an activist movement of the post- baby boomer generation. \n\nThe hip hop generation was defined in \"The Hip- Hop Generation: Young Blacks and the Crisis in African American Culture\" as African Americans born between 1965 and 1984. This group is situated between the passage of the Civil Rights Act and the assassination of Malcolm X on one end and hip hop's explosion during the 1970s and 1980s. But the hip-hop generation can be more loosely defined to include minorities born between 1965 and 1984 who have grown up within a culture of hip hop music, dance, fashion and art. \nSome of the issues of social justice the movement addresses are minority and immigration rights, educational access, prison reform and transportation policy. In recent years California's Proposition 187 and Proposition 21 have also been a focus of hip hop activism. The movement also addresses a broad range of social change practices like youth organizing and development, cultural work, and intercultural exchanges.\n\nThe mid-1990s were a particularly active period for the hip-hop agenda. In 1994, C. Delores Tucker told a Senate panel that the hip-hop generation, \"coaxed by gangster rap,' would \"trigger a crime wave of epidemic proportions that we have never seen the likes of.\" And then added, \"Regardless of the number of jails built, it will not be enough.\" \n\nIn his book \"Can't Stop Won't Stop\", author Jeff Chang traces the evolution of the hip hop activist movement noting that it was initially mostly grass roots and locally focused. But as movements against the prison-industrial complex and police brutality emerged simultaneous to movements against corporate globalization, many young hip hop activists began to organize nationally.\n\nAs hip hop has become a globalized art form, hip hop's progressive, activist agenda has traveled with it around the world. Organizers in Paris, Cape Town, Sweden, New Zealand Chile and in countless other countries have employed the tools of hip hop to work for change in communities, empower youth and give voice to unchecked issues. While gangster rap has been blamed by cultural critics for triggering crime waves, hip hop activism has stood up against the prison industrial complex, addressed environmental racism (many went on to encompass green politics) and corrupt systems that cause poverty around the world. Global hip hop activism does not only employ rap music, but also works within the other pillars of hip hop, such as creating youth empowerment projects by teaching graffiti art or break dancing. In the favelas of Rio de Janeiro, a movement called Afro-Reggae was started by former drug dealers to help keep favela children out of the drug trade by teaching them to be emcees and break dancers. The movement gained international fame in the documentary \"Favela Rising\"\n\nThe Anti-Injustice Movement (aka The AIM) is a rapidly expanding international hip-hop activist movement composed of political emcees (aka 'raptivists'), protest poets, DJs, street dancers, graffiti writers and activists who are fighting many forms of global injustice via peaceful and creative means.\n\nA significant factor in the national organizing of hip-hop activist in recent years can be attributed to legislation passed in response to waves of migration and immigration from Central and South America. This legislation included Proposition 187, which ended affirmative action and bilingual education in California, and Proposition 21, which demanded tougher sentencing and longer incarceration for juvenile offenders. Opponents like Paul Johnston claim that Proposition 187 has only served to increase political, cultural and class factions while marginalizing specific minority populations.\nIn his essay \"The Emergence of Transnational Citizenship Among Mexican Immigrants in California\" Johnston notes the cultural tensions created by the new legislation. He explains,\n\nDespite criticism the measures were passed and are supported by many Californians and their politicians. The discontent the legislation spurred, however, continues to be a focus of hip hop activists throughout the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2501727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2501727", "title": "Huaynamota", "text": "Huaynamota\n\nHuaynamota Indians.- A subdivision of the Cora Indians on an east branch of the Río Grande de Santiago, Jalisco, Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "952907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952907", "title": "Incipit", "text": "Incipit\n\nThe incipit () of a text is the first few words of the text, employed as an identifying label. In a musical composition, an incipit is an initial sequence of notes, having the same purpose. The word \"incipit\" comes from Latin and means \"it begins\". Its counterpart taken from the ending of the text is the explicit (\"it ends\").\n\nBefore the development of titles, texts were often referred to by their incipits, as with for example \"Agnus Dei\". During the medieval period in Europe, incipits were often written in a different script or colour from the rest of the work of which they were a part, and \"incipit pages\" might be heavily decorated with illumination. Though the word \"incipit\" is Latin, the practice of the incipit predates classical antiquity by several millennia and can be found in various parts of the world. Although not always called by the name of \"incipit\" today, the practice of referring to texts by their initial words remains commonplace.\n\nIn the clay tablet archives of Sumer, catalogs of documents were kept by making special catalog tablets containing the incipits of a given collection of tablets.\n\nThe catalog was meant to be used by the very limited number of official scribes who had access to the archives, and the width of a clay tablet and its resolution did not permit long entries. This is a Sumerian example from Lerner:\n\nMany books in the Hebrew Bible are named in Hebrew using incipits. For instance, the first book (Genesis) is called \"Bereshit\" (\"In the beginning ...\") and Lamentations, which begins \"How lonely sits the city...\", is called \"Eykha\" (\"How\"). A readily recognized one is the \"Shema\" or \"Shema Yisrael\" in the Torah: \"Hear O Israel...\" – the first words of the prayer encapsulating Judaism's monotheism (see beginning Deuteronomy 6:4 and elsewhere).\n\nAll the names of Parashot are incipits, the title coming from a word, occasionally two words, in its first two verses. The first in each book are, of course, called by the same name as the book as a whole.\n\nSome of the Psalms are known by their incipits, most noticeably Psalm 51 (Septuagint numbering: Psalm 50), which is known in Western Christianity by its Latin incipit \"Miserere\" (\"Have mercy\").\n\nIn the Talmud, the chapters of the Gemara are titled in print and known by their first words, e.g. the first chapter of Mesekhet Berachot (\"Benedictions\") is called Me-ematai (\"From when\"). This word is printed at the head of every subsequent page within that chapter of the tractate.\n\nIn rabbinic usage, the incipit is known as the \"dibur ha-matḥil\" (דיבור המתחיל), or \"beginning phrase\", and refers to a section heading in a published monograph or commentary that typically, but not always, quotes or paraphrases a classic biblical or rabbinic passage to be commented upon or discussed.\n\nMany religious songs and prayers are known by their opening words.\n\nSometimes an entire monograph is known by its \"dibur hamatḥil\". The published mystical and exegetical discourses of the Chabad-Lubavitch rebbes (called \"ma'amarim\"), derive their titles almost exclusively from the \"dibur ha-matḥil\" of the individual work's first chapter.\n\nThe final book of the New Testament, the Book of Revelation, is often known as the Apocalypse after the first word of the original Greek text, ἀποκάλυψις \"apokalypsis\" “revelation”, to the point where that word has become synonymous with what the book describes, i.e. the End of Days (ἔσχατον \"eschaton\" “[the] last” in the original).\n\nTraditionally, papal bulls, documents issued under the authority of the Pope, are referenced by their Latin incipit.\n\nSome of the mantras, suktas from the hymns of the Vedas, conform to this usage.\n\nThe idea of choosing a few words or a phrase or two, which would be placed on the spine of a book and its cover, developed slowly with the birth of printing, and the idea of a title page with a short title and subtitle came centuries later, replacing earlier, more verbose titles.\n\nThe modern use of standardized titles, combined with the International Standard Bibliographic Description (ISBD), have made the incipit obsolete as a tool for organizing information in libraries.\n\nHowever, incipits are still used to refer to untitled poems, songs, and prayers, such as Gregorian chants, operatic arias, many prayers and hymns, and numerous poems, including those of Emily Dickinson. That such a use is an incipit and not a title is most obvious when the line breaks off in the middle of a grammatical unit (e.g. Shakespeare's sonnet 55 \"Not marble, nor the gilded monuments\").\n\nLatin legal concepts are often designated by the first few words, for example, \"habeas corpus\" for \"habeas corpus ad subjiciendum\" (\"may you have the person to be subjected [to examination]\").\n\nMany word processors propose the first few words of a document as a default file name, assuming that the incipit may correspond to the intended title of the document.\n\nThe space-filling, or place-holding, text lorem ipsum is known as such from its incipit.\n\nOccasionally, incipits have been used for humorous effect, such as in the Alan Plater-penned television series \"The Beiderbecke Affair\" and its sequels, in which each episode is named for the first words spoken in the episode (leading to episode titles such as \"What I don't understand is this...\" and \"Um...I know what you're thinking\").\n\nMusical incipits are printed in standard music notation. They typically feature the first few bars of a piece, often with the most prominent musical material written on a single staff (the examples given at right show both the single-staff and full-score incipit variants). Incipits are especially useful in music because they can call to mind the reader's own musical memory of the work where a printed title would fail to do so. Musical incipits appear both in catalogs of music and in the tables of contents of volumes that include multiple works.\n\nIn choral music, sacred or secular pieces from before the 20th century were often titled with the incipit text. For instance, the proper of the Catholic Mass and the Latin transcriptions of the biblical psalms used as prayers during services are always titled with the first word or words of the text. Protestant hymns of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries are also traditionally titled with an incipit.\n\nIn computer science, long strings of characters may be referred to by their incipits, particularly encryption keys or product keys. Notable examples include FCKGW (used by Windows XP) and 09 F9 (used by Advanced Access Content System).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51431604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51431604", "title": "Intersex in history", "text": "Intersex in history\n\nIntersex, in humans and other animals, describes variations in sex characteristics including chromosomes, gonads, sex hormones, or genitals that, according to the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, \"do not fit typical binary notions of male or female bodies\". Intersex people were historically termed hermaphrodites, \"congenital eunuchs\", or even congenitally \"frigid\". Such terms have fallen out of favor, now considered to be misleading and stigmatizing.\n\nIntersex people have been treated in different ways by different cultures. Whether or not they were socially tolerated or accepted by any particular culture, the existence of intersex people was known to many ancient and pre-modern cultures and legal systems, and numerous historical accounts exist.\n\nA Sumerian creation myth from more than 4,000 years ago has Ninmah, a mother goddess, fashioning humanity out of clay. She boasts that she will determine the fate – good or bad – for all she fashions:\n\nIn traditional Jewish culture, intersex individuals were either \"androgynos\" or \"tumtum\" and took on different gender roles, sometimes conforming to men's, sometimes to women's.\n\nBy the eighth century CE, records of Islamic legal rulings discuss individuals known in Arabic as \"khuntha.\" This term, which has been translated as \"hermaphrodite,\" was used to apply to individuals with a range of intersex conditions, including mixed gonadal disgenesis, male hypospadias, partial androgen insensitivity syndrome, 5-alpha reductase deficiency, gonadal aplasia, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia. \n\nIn premodern Islamic law, inheritance was determined based on sex, so it was sometimes necessary to attempt to determine the biological sex of sexually ambiguous heirs. The first recorded case of this sort has been attributed to the seventh-century Rashidun caliph named 'Ali, who attempted to settle an inheritance case between five brothers in which one brother had both a male and female urinary opening. 'Ali advised the brothers that sex could be determined by site of urination in a practice called \"hukm al-mabal\"; if urine exited the male opening, the individual was male, and if it exited the female opening, the individual was female. If it exited both openings simultaneously, as it did in this case, the heir would be given half of a male inheritance and half of a female inheritance. Later, in the thirteenth century CE, Shafi'i law expert Abu Zakariya al-Nawawi ruled that an individual whose sex could not be determined by \"hukm al-mabal\", such as those with urination from both openings or those with no identifiable sex organs, was assigned the intermediary sex category \"khuntha mushkil\".\n\nBoth Hanafi and Hanbali lawmakers also recognized that puberty could clarify a new dominant sex in intersex individuals who were labeled \"khuntha,\" male, or female in childhood. If a \"khuntha\" or male developed female secondary sex characteristics, performed vaginal sex, lactacted, menstruated, or conceived, this person's legal sex could change to female. Conversely, if a \"khuntha\" or female developed male secondary sex characteristics, performed penetrative sex with a woman, or had an erection, their legal sex could change to male. This understanding of the effect of puberty on intersex conditions appears in Islamic law as early as the eleventh century CE, notably by Ibn Qudama.\n\nIn the sixteenth century CE, Ibrahim al-Halabi, a member of the Hanafi school of jurisprudence in Islam, directed slave owners to use special gender-neutral language when freeing intersex slaves. He recognized that language manumitting \"males\" or \"females\" would not directly apply to them.\n\nThe Tirumantiram Tirumular recorded the relationship between intersex people and Shiva.\n\nArdhanarishvara, an androgynous composite form of male deity Shiva and female deity Parvati, originated in Kushan culture as far back as the first century CE. A statue depicting Ardhanarishvara is included in India's Meenkashi Temple; this statue clearly shows both male and female bodily elements.\n\nDue to the presence of intersex traits, Ardhanarishvara is associated with the \"hijra,\" a third sex category that has been accepted in South Asia for centuries. After interviewing and studying the \"hijra\" for many years, Serena Nanda writes in her book \"Neither Man Nor Woman: The Hijras of India\" as follows: \"There is a widespread belief in India that \"hijras\" are born hermaphrodites [intersex] and are taken away by the \"hijra\" community at birth or in childhood, but I found no evidence to support this belief among the \"hijras\" I met, all of whom joined the community voluntarily, often in their teens.\"\n\nAccording to Herdt, the \"hijra\" differentiate between \"born\" and \"made\" individuals, or those who have physical intersex traits by birth and those who become \"hijra\" through penectomy, respectively. According to Indian tradition, the \"hijra\" perform a traditional song and dance as part of a family's celebration of the birth of a male child; during the performance, they also inspect the newborn's genitals to verify its sex. Herdt states that it is widely accepted that if the child is intersex, the \"hijra\" have a right to claim it as part of their community. However, Warne and Raza argue that an association between intersex and hijra people is mostly unfounded but provokes parental fear. The \"hijra\" are mentioned in some versions of the Ramayana, a Hindu epic poem from around 300 BCE, in a myth about the hero Rama instructing his devotees to return to the city Ayodhya rather than follow him across the city's adjacent river into banishment. Since he gives this instruction specifically to \"all you men and women,\" his \"hijra\" followers, being neither, remain on the banks of the river for fourteen years until Rama returns from exile.\n\nIn the Tantric sect of Hinduism, there is a belief that all individuals possess both male and female components. This belief can be seen explicitly in the Tantric concept of a Supreme Being with both male and female sex organs, which constitutes \"one complete sex\" and the ideal physical form.\n\nAccording to DeVun, a \"traditional Hippocratic/Galenic model of sexual difference – popularized by the late antique physician Galen and the ascendant theory for much of the Middle Ages – viewed sex as a spectrum that encompassed masculine men, feminine women, and many shades in between, including hermaphrodites, a perfect balance of male and female\". DeVun contrasts this with an Artistotelian view of intersex, which argued that \"hermaphrodites were not an intermediate sex but a case of doubled or superfluous genitals\", and this later influenced Aquinas.\n\nIn the mythological tradition, Hermaphroditus was a beautiful youth who was the son of Hermes (Roman Mercury) and Aphrodite (Venus). Ovid wrote the most influential narrative of how Hermaphroditus became androgynous, emphasizing that although the handsome youth was on the cusp of sexual adulthood, he rejected love as Narcissus had, and likewise at the site of a reflective pool. There the water nymph Salmacis saw and desired him. He spurned her, and she pretended to withdraw until, thinking himself alone, he undressed to bathe in her waters. She then flung herself upon him, and prayed that they might never be parted. The gods granted this request, and thereafter the body of Hermaphroditus contained both male and female. As a result, men who drank from the waters of the spring Salmacis supposedly \"grew soft with the vice of \"impudicitia\"\". The myth of Hylas, the young companion of Hercules who was abducted by water nymphs, shares with Hermaphroditus and Narcissus the theme of the dangers that face the beautiful adolescent male as he transitions to adult masculinity, with varying outcomes for each.\n\nPliny notes that \"there are even those who are born of both sexes, whom we call hermaphrodites, at one time \"androgyni\"\" (\"andr-\", \"man,\" and \"gyn-\", \"woman\", from the Greek). However, the era also saw a historical account of a congenital eunuch.\n\nThe Sicilian historian Diodorus (latter 1st-century BC) wrote of \"hermaphroditus\" in the first century BCE:\n\nIsidore of Seville (\"c.\" 560–636) described a hermaphrodite fancifully as those who \"have the right breast of a man and the left of a woman, and after coitus in turn can both sire and bear children.\" Under Roman law, as many others, a hermaphrodite had to be classed as either male or female. Roscoe states that the hermaphrodite represented a \"violation of social boundaries, especially those as fundamental to daily life as male and female.\"\nIn traditional Roman religion, a hermaphroditic birth was a kind of \"prodigium\", an occurrence that signalled a disturbance of the \"pax deorum\", Rome's treaty with the gods. But Pliny observed that while hermaphrodites were once considered portents, in his day they had become objects of delight (\"deliciae\") who were trafficked in an exclusive slave market. According to Clarke, depictions of Hermaphroditus were very popular among the Romans:\nIn c.400, Augustine wrote in \"The Literal Meaning of Genesis\" that humans were created in two sexes, despite \"as happens in some births, in the case of what we call androgynes\".\n\nHistorical accounts of intersex people include the sophist and philosopher Favorinus, described as a eunuch (εὐνοῦχος) by birth. Mason and others thus describe Favorinus as having an intersex trait.\n\nA broad sense of the term \"eunuch\" is reflected in the compendium of ancient Roman laws collected by Justinian I in the 6th century known as the Digest or Pandects. Those texts distinguish between the general category of eunuchs (\"spadones\", denoting \"one who has no generative power, an impotent person, whether by nature or by castration\", D 50.16.128) and the more specific subset of \"castrati\" (castrated males, physically incapable of procreation). Eunuchs (\"spadones\") sold in the slave markets were deemed by the jurist Ulpian to be \"not defective or diseased, but healthy\", because they were anatomically able to procreate just like monorchids (D 21.1.6.2). On the other hand, as Julius Paulus pointed out, \"if someone is a eunuch in such a way that he is missing a necessary part of his body\" (D 21.1.7), then he would be deemed diseased. In these Roman legal texts, \"spadones (eunuchs)\" are eligible to marry women (D 23.3.39.1), institute posthumous heirs (D 28.2.6), and adopt children (Institutions of Justinian 1.11.9), \"unless\" they are \"castrati\".\n\nIn \"Abnormal\" (\"Les anormaux\"), Michel Foucault suggested it is likely that, \"from the Middle Ages to the sixteenth century ... hermaphrodites were considered to be monsters and were executed, burnt at the stake and their ashes thrown to the winds.\"\n\nHowever, Christof Rolker disputes this, arguing that \"Contrary to what has been claimed, there is no evidence for hermaphrodites being persecuted in the Middle Ages, and the learned laws did certainly not provide any basis for such persecution\". Canon Law sources provide evidence of alternative perspectives, based upon prevailing visual indications and the performance of gendered roles. The 12th-century \"Decretum Gratiani\" states that \"Whether an hermaphrodite may witness a testament, depends on which sex prevails\" (\"Hermafroditus an ad testamentum adhiberi possit, qualitas sexus incalescentis ostendit.\").\n\nIn the late twelfth century, the canon lawyer Huguccio stated that, \"If someone has a beard, and always wishes to act like a man (excercere virilia) and not like a female, and always wishes to keep company with men and not with women, it is a sign that the male sex prevails in him and then he is able to be a witness, where a woman is not allowed\". Concerning the ordination of 'hermaphrodites', Huguccio concluded: \"If therefore the person is drawn to the feminine more than the male, the person does not receive the order. If the reverse, the person is able to receive but ought not to be ordained on account of deformity and monstrosity.\"\n\nHenry de Bracton's \"De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliae\" (\"On the Laws and Customs of England\"), c. 1235, classifies mankind as \"male, female, or hermaphrodite\", and \"A hermaphrodite is classed with male or female according to the predominance of the sexual organs.\"\n\nThe thirteenth-century canon lawyer Henry of Segusio argued that a \"perfect hermaphrodite\" where no sex prevailed should choose their legal gender under oath.\n\nThe 17th-century English jurist and judge Edward Coke (Lord Coke), wrote in his \"Institutes of the Lawes of England\" on laws of succession stating, \"Every heire is either a male, a female, or an hermaphrodite, that is both male and female. And an hermaphrodite (which is also called \"Androgynus\") shall be heire, either as male or female, according to that kind of sexe which doth prevaile.\" The \"Institutes\" are widely held to be a foundation of common law.\n\nA few historical accounts of intersex people exist due primarily to the discovery of relevant legal records, including those of Thomas(ine) Hall (17th-century USA), , a 16th-century intersex person in Spain , and Fernanda Fernández (18th-century Spain).\n\nIn a court case, heard at the Castellania in 1774 during the Order of St. John in Malta, 17-year-old Rosa Mifsud from Luqa, later described in the British Medical Journal as a pseudo-hermaphrodite, petitioned for a change in sex classification from female. Two clinicians were appointed by the court to perform an examination. They found that \"the male sex is the dominant one\". The examiners were the Physician-in-Chief and a senior surgeon, both working at the Sacra Infermeria. The Grandmaster himself who took the final decision for Mifsud to wear only men clothes from then on.\n\nDuring the Victorian era, medical authors introduced the terms \"true hermaphrodite\" for an individual who has both ovarian and testicular tissue, verified under a microscope, \"male pseudo-hermaphrodite\" for a person with testicular tissue, but either female or ambiguous sexual anatomy, and \"female pseudo-hermaphrodite\" for a person with ovarian tissue, but either male or ambiguous sexual anatomy.\n\nHistorical accounts including those of Vietnamese general Lê Văn Duyệt (18th/19th-century) who helped to unify Vietnam; Gottlieb Göttlich, a 19th-century German travelling medical case; and Levi Suydam, an intersex person in 19th-century USA whose capacity to vote in male-only elections was questioned.\n\nThe memoirs of 19th-century intersex Frenchwoman Herculine Barbin were published by Michel Foucault in 1980. Her birthday is marked in Intersex Day of Remembrance on 8 November.\n\nThe term intersexuality was coined by Richard Goldschmidt in the 1917 paper \"Intersexuality and the endocrine aspect of sex\". The first suggestion to replace the term 'hermaphrodite' with 'intersex' came from British specialist Cawadias in the 1940s. This suggestion was taken up by specialists in the UK during the 1960s. Historical accounts from the early twentieth century include that of Australian Florrie Cox, whose marriage was annulled due to \"malformation frigidity\".\n\nSince the rise of modern medical science in Western societies, some intersex people with ambiguous external genitalia have had their genitalia surgically modified to resemble either female or male genitals. Surgeons pinpointed intersex babies as a \"social emergency\" once they were born. The parents of the intersex babies were not content about the situation. Psychologists, sexologists, and researchers frequently still believe that it is better for a baby's genitalia to be changed when they were younger than when they were a mature adult. These scientists believe that early intervention helped avoid gender identity confusion. This was called the 'Optimal Gender Policy', and it was initially developed in the 1950s by John Money. Money and others controversially believed that children were more likely to develop a gender identity that matched sex of rearing than might be determined by chromosomes, gonads, or hormones. The primary goal of assignment was to choose the sex that would lead to the least inconsistency between external anatomy and assigned psyche (gender identity).\n\nSince advances in surgery have made it possible for intersex conditions to be concealed, many people are not aware of how frequently intersex conditions arise in human beings or that they occur at all. Dialog between what were once antagonistic groups of activists and clinicians has led to only slight changes in medical policies and how intersex patients and their families are treated in some locations. Numerous civil society organizations and human rights institutions now call for an end to unnecessary \"normalizing\" interventions.\n\nThe first public demonstration by intersex people took place in Boston on October 26, 1996, outside the venue in Boston where the American Academy of Pediatrics was holding its annual conference. The group demonstrated against \"normalizing\" treatments, and carried a sign saying \"Hermaphrodites With Attitude\". The event is now commemorated by Intersex Awareness Day.\n\nIn 2011, Christiane Völling became the first intersex person known to have successfully sued for damages in a case brought for non-consensual surgical intervention. In April 2015, Malta became the first country to outlaw non-consensual medical interventions to modify sex anatomy, including that of intersex people.\n\n"}
{"id": "27361407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27361407", "title": "Iramba language", "text": "Iramba language\n\nIramba, also known as Nilamba (there is no distinction between and ) is a Bantu language of spoken by the Nilamba and Iambi people of the Iramba District in Singida Region of Tanzania. \n\nForms of the name occur with and without the prefix \"ni-\" or \"i-\", as well as \"iki-\" (Swahili \"ki-\") as the noun-class prefix for 'language', and variation of \"r ~ l ~ ly\" in the root. This results in a large number of superficial variants, including \"Nilamba, Niramba, Nilyamba, Nyilamba, Ikinilamba, Ikiniramba, Ilamba, Iramba, Kinilamba, Kiniramba\"; there is also \"Nilambari\". \n\nThe 50,000 Iambi speak a slightly divergent dialect, sometimes listed as a distinct language. On the other hand, the Isanzu language is sometimes included as a dialect.\n\n"}
{"id": "58725133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58725133", "title": "Italians in Albania", "text": "Italians in Albania\n\nItalians in Albania is related to the Italian migration into what is today Albania that has been going on, in different migrating cycles, for centuries, beginning after the Roman empire times right to the modern age. Actually (January first, 2017) there are 1,385 Italians residents in Albania Other figures show about 19,000 Italians living and working in Albania. \n\nThe territory of what is now Albania was fully conquered by the Romans in the century before Augustus. Roman colonists from the Italian peninsula settled in some cities and castra, like Dyrrachium (from where started the famous Via Egnatia that reached Constantinople) and Buthrotum. Later, with the definitive subdivision of the Roman Empire, Albania (a country fully latinised, according to historian Mommsen) went to the dependencies of Byzantium. Albania was successively invaded by the barbarians, some of whom created ephemeral lordships (end 6th century: Slavic, 619 AD: Avaric, later Serbian), while only on the coast survived the autochthonous population, mainly in Durrachium and surroundings that were linked by commerce to southern Italy. \n\nFrom 917 to 1019 Albania was almost totally absorbed by the Bulgarian kingdom. In the XI century Albania returned under Byzantium, and began to undergo the military penetration of the southern Italy's Normans and subsequent kings of Sicily and Naples. Also was present the commercial presence of Venice, who took advantage of the fourth crusade (1204) to seize it, even if the feudal lords gave themselves to the despot of Epirus Michele Angelo Comneno. The centuries from the year 1000 to the Duecento and early Trecento were characterized by a consistent migration of Italians to Albania (mainly as merchants and military personnel but also as religious people).\n\nConquered in 1230 by the Vlach-Bulgarian tsar John Asjan II, shortly after Albania passed for the most part to the Serbian kings of the Rascia. The battle of Kosovo (1389) brought in Albania the Turks, who, first contained by the League of Albanian peoples created in 1444 by Giorgio Castriota, known as Skanderbeg, after his death (1467) conquered all Albania and maintained their rule on the country until the early XX century. During these ottoman centuries there were few Italians in Albania.\n\nWith WW1 started the tentative of \"assimilation\" of Albania by the kingdom of Italy, that was characterized by the arrival of many thousands of colonists (mostly with Albanian roots) from Italy during the Mussolini fascism. \nIn 1919 the island of Saseno was given to Italy and a small group of fishermen with their families moved from Puglia to live in the island (where they remained until 1947, when the island was officially returned to Albania). \n\nIn 1939 Italy and Albania were united under the crown of Victor Emmanuel III. In April 1939 the Albanian Parliament proclaimed the Italian King and Emperor Vittorio Emanuele III as the new King. He took the title \"King of Albania\", which he formally retained until he abdicated as Albanian monarch in September 1943.\n\nItalian naval strategists in the early 1900s eyed the port of Vlorë and the island of Sazan at the entrance to the Bay of Vlorë with considerable interest, as it would give Italy control of the entrance to the Adriatic Sea. In addition, Albania could provide Italy with a beachhead in the Balkans. Before World War I Italy and Austria-Hungary had been instrumental in the creation of an independent Albanian state. At the outbreak of war, Italy had seized the chance to occupy the southern half of Albania, to avoid it being captured by the Austro-Hungarians. That success did not last long, as post-war domestic problems, Albanian resistance, and pressure from United States President Woodrow Wilson, forced Italy to pull out in 1920.\n\nWhen Mussolini took power in Italy in 1922, he turned with renewed interest to Albania. He complained that the Treaty of London of 1915 had promised to Italy an area around Valona, but the Allies \"betrayed\" their promises in the 1919 Peace conference. Italy began penetration of Albania's economy in 1925, when Albania agreed to allow it to exploit its mineral resources.\n\nMussolini favoured a process of \"assimilation\" of Albania into Italy, with economical influence and finally a military occupation in 1939. He started also sending colonists to Albania: Italian citizens began to settle in Albania as colonists and to own land so that they could gradually transform it into Italian soil.\n\nThe process of colonization began in 1926 with 300 colonists.The first Italians to colonise Albania were fishing families from Apulia, who moved to the island of Sazan opposite Vlora in 1918. The island was officially part of Italy from the end of World War I to 1947.\n\nIn 1926, the Italian government, in agreement with Albanian authorities, sent 300 Italian colonists to Kamez, near Tirana, to promote agricultural development.\n\nMost of the Italians were farmers from Arberesh communities in southern Italy. They were initially successful, and created the company \"Ente industria agraria albanese\" with an agricultural school, but the regime of King Zog expelled them in 1931, fearing excessive Italian influence in Albanian society and politics.\n\nAfter the occupation of Albania in April 1939, Mussolini sent nearly 11,000 Italian colonists to Albania. Most of them were from the Veneto region and Sicily. They settled primarily in the areas of Durazzo, Valona, Scutari, Porto Palermo, Elbasani and Santi Quaranta. They were the first settlers of a huge group of Italians to be moved to Albania. In addition to these colonists, 22,000 Italian casual laborers went to Albania in April 1940 to construct roads, railways and infrastructure.\n\nThe Italian colonists and the Italian \"assimilation\" were more or less welcomed in spring 1939 when Albania was united to Italy, and were greeted by most Albanians when Albania was enlarged two years later by the Italian & Germany conquest of Yugoslavia and Greece. \n\nIn those years the architecture of the main cities of Albania was greatly improved: the centre of Tirana was the project of Florestano Di Fausto, Gherardo Bosio and Armando Brasini, well known architects of the Benito Mussolini period in Italy. \n\nBrasini laid the basis for the modern-day arrangement of the ministerial buildings in the city centre. He created the Tirana University building. Bosio made: \n\nThe master plan for Tirana underwent revisions by the Albanian architect Eshref Frashëri, the Italian architect Castellani, and the Austrian architects Weiss and Kohler. The rectangular parallel road system of Tirana e Re district took shape, while the northern portion of the main Boulevard was opened. These urban plans formed the basis of future developments in Albania after the Second World War.\n\nAfter the Italian surrender in September 1943 started a period of years very difficult for the Italians in Albania, mainly under the communist dictator Hoxha regime.\n\nNo Italian colonists remain in Albania. The few who remained under the communist regime of Enver Hoxha escaped (with their descendants) to Italy in 1992, and actually are represented by the association \"ANCIFRA\".\n\nFollowing the economic crisis of the late 2000s in Italy, it is estimated that nearly 20,000 Italians (and Albanians with Italian passport) have moved to Albania in order to open up businesses, attend university, or retire. However their number seems to be a lot smaller, because the officially registered Italian citizen in Albania are less than two thousands in the 2010s. Most of them are living in the capital, in Durazzo and in Valona.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages and early Renaissance the Italians ruled on the coast of Albania 3 areas: Buthrotum in the south in front of Corfu, Durres in the center-north and the border area of the Venetian Albania near actual Montenegro. Hundreds of Italians moved to these enclaves in order to administer and rule militarily (and also to populate).\n\nIt remained an outpost of the Byzantine empire fending off assaults from the Normans until 1204 when following the Fourth Crusade, the Byzantine Empire fragmented, Buthrotum falling to the breakaway Despotate of Epirus. \nIn the following centuries, the area was a site of conflict between the Byzantines, the Angevins of southern Italy, and the Venetians, and the city changed hands many times. In 1267, Charles of Anjou took control of both Buthrotum and Corfu, leading to further restorations of the walls and the Great Basilica.\nThe dogal Republic of Venice purchased the area including Corfu from the Angevins in 1386; however, the Venetian merchants were principally interested in Corfu and Buthrotum once again declined.\n\nBy 1572 the wars between Venice and the Ottoman Empire had left Buthrotum ruinous and at the order of Domenico Foscarini, the Venetian commander of Corfu, the administration of Buthrotum and its environs was shifted to a small triangular fortress associated with the extensive fish weirs. The area was lightly settled afterwards, occasionally being seized by the Ottoman Turks, in 1655 and 1718, before being recaptured by the Venetians. Its fisheries were a vital contributor to the supply of Corfu, and olive growing together with cattle and timber were the principal economic activities.\n\nThe Treaty of Campo Formio of 1797 split between France and Austria the territory of the Republic of Venice, which France had just occupied and abolished, and under article 5 of the treaty, Butrinto and the other former Venetian enclaves in Albania came under French sovereignty.\n\nDyrrachium was conquered from the Byzantines in February 1082 when Alexios I Komnenos was defeated by the Normans under Robert Guiscard and his son Bohemund in the Battle of Dyrrhachium. Byzantine control was restored a few years later, but the Normans under Bohemund returned to besiege it in 1107–08, and sacked it again in 1185 under King William II of Sicily. In 1205, after the Fourth Crusade, the city was transferred to the rule of the Republic of Venice, which formed the \"Duchy of Durazzo\". This Duchy was conquered in 1213. In 1257, Durrës was briefly occupied by the King of Sicily, Manfred of Hohenstaufen. It was re-occupied by the Despot of Epirus Michael II Komnenos Doukas until 1259, when the Despotate was defeated by the Byzantine Empire of Nicaea in the Battle of Pelagonia. In the 1270s, Durrës was again controlled by Epirus under Nikephoros I Komnenos Doukas, the son of Michael II, who in 1278 was forced to yield the city to Charles d' Anjou (Charles I of Sicily). \nIn the early 14th century, the city was ruled by a coalition of Anjous, Hungarians, and Albanians of the Thopia family. In 1317 or 1318, the area was taken by the Serbs and remained under their rule until 1342. At that time the Popes, supported by the Anjous, increased their diplomatic and political activity in the area, by using the Latin bishops, including the archbishop of Durrës. The city had been a religious center of Catholicism after the Anjou were installed in Durrës. In 1272, a Catholic archbishop was installed, and until the mid-14th century there were both Catholic and Orthodox archbishops of Durrës.\n\nTwo Irish pilgrims who visited Albania on their way to Jerusalem in 1322, reported that Durrës was \"inhabited by Latins, Greeks, perfidious Jews and barbaric Albanians\".\n\nIn 1392 the Venetians took control of the city, that they called \"Durazzo\" and maintained the rule until 1508 when Durazzo fell to the Turks. Some venetian families moved to live -and administer- in Durazzo during those years.\n\nThe Venetian territories around Cattaro in actual Montenegro lasted from 1420 to 1797 and were called Venetian Albania, a province of the Venetian Republic.\nIn the early years of the Renaissance the territories under Venetian control included areas from actual coastal Montenegro to northern Albania until Durrës. In northern Albania, the siege of Shkodra in 1478–1479 culminated in the Treaty of Constantinople: this city (called Scutari in Italian) was ruled by the Republic of Venice since 1396. \n\nDuring the Venetian rule the city adopted the Statutes of Scutari, a civic law written in Venetian. Venetians built the \"St. Stephen's Church\" (later converted into the Fatih Sultan Mehmet Mosque by the Turks) and the Rozafa Castle. In 1479 the city -defended stubbornly by many venetian soldiers- fell to the Ottomans and the defenders of the citadel moved to Italy and Venetian Dalmatia, while many Albanians from the region retreated into the mountains.\nVenetians retained Durrës – that they called \"Durazzo\" – and surrounding areas after a huge siege by the Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II in 1466, but it fell to Ottoman forces in 1508. Also in this case, the Christian population moved away and many venetian families -who were living in Durazzo- moved to Venetian Dalmatia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190192", "title": "Leviathan (Hobbes book)", "text": "Leviathan (Hobbes book)\n\nLeviathan or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common-Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil—commonly referred to as Leviathan—is a book written by Thomas Hobbes (1588–1679) and published in 1651 (revised Latin edition 1668). Its name derives from the biblical Leviathan. The work concerns the structure of society and legitimate government, and is regarded as one of the earliest and most influential examples of social contract theory. \"Leviathan\" ranks as a classic Western work on statecraft comparable to Machiavelli's \"The Prince\". Written during the English Civil War (1642–1651), \"Leviathan\" argues for a social contract and rule by an absolute sovereign. Hobbes wrote that civil war and the brute situation of a state of nature (\"the war of all against all\") could only be avoided by strong, undivided government.\n\nAfter lengthy discussion with Thomas Hobbes, the Parisian Abraham Bosse created the etching for the book's famous frontispiece in the \"géometrique\" style which Bosse himself had refined. It is similar in organisation to the frontispiece of Hobbes' \"De Cive\" (1642), created by Jean Matheus. The frontispiece has two main elements, of which the upper part is by far the more striking.\n\nIn it, a giant crowned figure is seen emerging from the landscape, clutching a sword and a crosier, beneath a quote from the Book of Job—\"Non est potestas Super Terram quae Comparetur ei. Iob. 41 . 24\" (\"There is no power on earth to be compared to him. Job 41 . 24\")—linking the figure to the monster of that book. (Due to disagreements over the precise location of the chapters and verses when they were divided in the Late Middle Ages, the verse Hobbes quotes is usually given as Job 41:33 in modern Christian translations into English, Job 41:25 in the Masoretic text, Septuagint, and the Luther Bible; it is Iob 41:24 in the Vulgate.) The torso and arms of the figure are composed of over three hundred persons, in the style of Giuseppe Arcimboldo; all are facing inwards with just the giant's head having visible features. (A manuscript of \"Leviathan\" created for Charles II in 1651 has notable differences – a different main head but significantly the body is also composed of many faces, all looking outwards from the body and with a range of expressions.)\n\nThe lower portion is a triptych, framed in a wooden border. The centre form contains the title on an ornate curtain. The two sides reflect the sword and crosier of the main figure – earthly power on the left and the powers of the church on the right. Each side element reflects the equivalent power – castle to church, crown to mitre, cannon to excommunication, weapons to logic, and the battlefield to the religious courts. The giant holds the symbols of both sides, reflecting the union of secular, and spiritual in the sovereign, but the construction of the torso also makes the figure the state.\n\nHobbes begins his treatise on politics with an account of human nature. He presents an image of man as matter in motion, attempting to show through example how everything about humanity can be explained materialistically, that is, without recourse to an incorporeal, immaterial soul or a faculty for understanding ideas that are external to the human mind.\nHobbes proceeds by defining terms clearly and unsentimentally. Good and evil are nothing more than terms used to denote an individual's appetites and desires, while these appetites and desires are nothing more than the tendency to move toward or away from an object. Hope is nothing more than an appetite for a thing combined with opinion that it can be had. He suggests the dominant political theology of the time, Scholasticism, thrives on confused definitions of everyday words, such as \"incorporeal substance\", which for Hobbes is a contradiction in terms.\n\nHobbes describes human psychology without any reference to the \"summum bonum\", or greatest good, as previous thought had done. Not only is the concept of a \"summum bonum\" superfluous, but given the variability of human desires, there could be no such thing. Consequently, any political community that sought to provide the greatest good to its members would find itself driven by competing conceptions of that good with no way to decide among them. The result would be civil war.\n\nHowever, Hobbes states that there is a \"summum malum\", or greatest evil. This is the fear of violent death. A political community can be oriented around this fear.\n\nSince there is no \"summum bonum\", the natural state of man is not to be found in a political community that pursues the greatest good. But to be outside of a political community is to be in an anarchic condition. Given human nature, the variability of human desires, and need for scarce resources to fulfill those desires, the state of nature, as Hobbes calls this anarchic condition, must be a war of all against all. Even when two men are not fighting, there is no guarantee that the other will not try to kill him for his property or just out of an aggrieved sense of honour, and so they must constantly be on guard against one another. It is even reasonable to preemptively attack one's neighbour.\n\nThe desire to avoid the state of nature, as the place where the \"summum malum\" of violent death is most likely to occur, forms the polestar of political reasoning. It suggests a number of laws of nature, although Hobbes is quick to point out that they cannot properly speaking be called \"laws,\" since there is no one to enforce them. The first thing that reason suggests is to seek peace, but that where peace cannot be had, to use all of the advantages of war. Hobbes is explicit that in the state of nature nothing can be considered just or unjust, and every man must be considered to have a right to all things. The second law of nature is that one ought to be willing to renounce one's right to all things where others are willing to do the same, to quit the state of nature, and to erect a commonwealth with the authority to command them in all things. Hobbes concludes Part One by articulating an additional seventeen laws of nature that make the performance of the first two possible and by explaining what it would mean for a sovereign to represent the people even when they disagree with the sovereign.\n\nThe purpose of a commonwealth is given at the start of Part II: \n\nThe commonwealth is instituted when all agree in the following manner: \"I authorise and give up my right of governing myself to this man, or to this assembly of men, on this condition; that thou give up, thy right to him, and authorise all his actions in like manner.\"\n\nThe sovereign has twelve principal rights:\n\n\nHobbes explicitly rejects the idea of \"Separation of Powers\". In item 6 Hobbes is explicitly in favour of censorship of the press and restrictions on the rights of free speech should they be considered desirable by the sovereign to promote order.\n\nThere are three (monarchy, aristocracy and democracy):\n\nAnd only three; since unlike Aristotle he does not sub-divide them into \"good\" and \"deviant\":\n\nAnd monarchy is the best, on practical grounds:\n\nThe right of succession always lies with the sovereign. Democracies and aristocracies have easy succession; monarchy is harder:\n\nBecause in general people haven't thought carefully. However, the succession is definitely in the gift of the monarch:\n\nBut, it is not always obvious who the monarch has appointed:\n\nHowever, the answer is:\n\nAnd this means:\n\nNote that (perhaps rather radically) this does not have to be any blood relative:\n\nHowever, practically this means:\n\nIn \"Leviathan\", Hobbes explicitly states that the sovereign has authority to assert power over matters of faith and doctrine, and that if he does not do so, he invites discord. Hobbes presents his own religious theory, but states that he would defer to the will of the sovereign (when that was re-established: again, \"Leviathan\" was written during the Civil War) as to whether his theory was acceptable. \n\nThomas Hobbes also touched upon the sovereign's ability to tax in \"Leviathan\", although he is not as widely cited for his economic theories as he is for his political theories. Hobbes believed that equal justice includes the equal imposition of taxes. The equality of taxes doesn’t depend on equality of wealth, but on the equality of the debt that every man owes to the commonwealth for his defence and the maintenance of the rule of law. Hobbes also championed public support for those unable to maintain themselves by labour, which would presumably be funded by taxation. He advocated public encouragement of works of Navigation etc. to usefully employ the poor who could work.\n\nIn Part III Hobbes seeks to investigate the nature of a \"Christian\" commonwealth. This immediately raises the question of which scriptures we should trust, and why. If any person may claim supernatural revelation superior to the civil law, then there would be chaos, and Hobbes' fervent desire is to avoid this. Hobbes thus begins by establishing that we cannot infallibly know another's personal word to be divine revelation:\n\nThis is good, but if applied too fervently would lead to all the Bible being rejected. So, Hobbes says, we need a test: and the true test is established by examining the books of scripture, and is:\n\n\"Seeing therefore miracles now cease\" means that only the books of the Bible can be trusted. Hobbes then discusses the various books which are accepted by various sects, and the \"question much disputed between the diverse sects of Christian religion, from whence the Scriptures derive their authority\". To Hobbes, \"it is manifest that none can know they are God's word (though all true Christians believe it) but those to whom God Himself hath revealed it supernaturally\". And therefore \"The question truly stated is: by what authority they are made law?\"\n\nUnsurprisingly, Hobbes concludes that ultimately there is no way to determine this other than the civil power:\n\nHe discusses the Ten Commandments, and asks \"who it was that gave to these written tables the obligatory force of laws. There is no doubt but they were made laws by God Himself: but because a law obliges not, nor is law to any but to them that acknowledge it to be the act of the sovereign, how could the people of Israel, that were forbidden to approach the mountain to hear what God said to Moses, be obliged to obedience to all those laws which Moses propounded to them?\" and concludes, as before, that \"making of the Scripture law, belonged to the civil sovereign.\"\n\nFinally: \"We are to consider now what office in the Church those persons have who, being civil sovereigns, have embraced also the Christian faith?\" to which the answer is: \"Christian kings are still the supreme pastors of their people, and have power to ordain what pastors they please, to teach the Church, that is, to teach the people committed to their charge.\"\n\nThere is an enormous amount of biblical scholarship in this third part. However, once Hobbes' initial argument is accepted (that no-one can know for sure anyone else's divine revelation) his conclusion (the religious power is subordinate to the civil) follows from his logic. The very extensive discussions of the chapter were probably necessary for its time. The need (as Hobbes saw it) for the civil sovereign to be supreme arose partly from the many sects that arose around the civil war, and to quash the \"Pope of Rome's challenge\", to which Hobbes devotes an extensive section.\n\nHobbes named Part IV of his book Kingdom of Darkness. By this, Hobbes does not mean Hell (he did not believe in Hell or Purgatory) but the darkness of ignorance as opposed to the light of true knowledge. Hobbes' interpretation is largely unorthodox and so sees much darkness in what he sees as the misinterpretation of Scripture.\n\nHobbes enumerates four causes of this darkness.\n\nThe first is by extinguishing the light of scripture through misinterpretation. Hobbes sees the main abuse as teaching that the kingdom of God can be found in the church, thus undermining the authority of the civil sovereign. Another general abuse of scripture, in his view, is the turning of consecration into conjuration, or silly ritual.\n\nThe second cause is the demonology of the heathen poets: in Hobbes's opinion, demons are nothing more than constructs of the brain. Hobbes then goes on to criticize what he sees as many of the practices of Catholicism: \"Now for the worship of saints, and images, and relics, and other things at this day practiced in the Church of Rome, I say they are not allowed by the word of God\".\n\nThe third is by mixing with the Scripture diverse relics of the religion, and much of the vain and erroneous philosophy of the Greeks, especially of Aristotle. Hobbes has little time for the various disputing sects of philosophers and objects to what people have taken \"From Aristotle's civil philosophy, they have learned to call all manner of Commonwealths but the popular (such as was at that time the state of Athens), tyranny\". At the end of this comes an interesting section (darkness is suppressing true knowledge as well as introducing falsehoods), which would appear to bear on the discoveries of Galileo Galilei. \"Our own navigations make manifest, and all men learned in human sciences now acknowledge, there are antipodes\" (i.e., the Earth is round) \"...Nevertheless, men... have been punished for it by authority ecclesiastical. But what reason is there for it? Is it because such opinions are contrary to true religion? That cannot be, if they be true.\" However, Hobbes is quite happy for the truth to be suppressed if necessary: if \"they tend to disorder in government, as countenancing rebellion or sedition? Then let them be silenced, and the teachers punished\" – but only by the civil authority.\n\nThe fourth is by mingling with both these, false or uncertain traditions, and feigned or uncertain history.\n\nHobbes finishes by inquiring who benefits from the errors he diagnoses:\n\nHobbes concludes that the beneficiaries are the churches and churchmen.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44495877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44495877", "title": "List of indigenous peoples of Rivers State", "text": "List of indigenous peoples of Rivers State\n\nRivers State is the sixth-largest geographic area in Nigeria according to 2006 census data. The state has an indigenously diverse population with major riverine and upland divisions. The dominant ethnic groups are: Ogoni, Ijaw and Ikwerre. Upland Rivers State covering about 61% is composed mainly of Ogoni and Ikwerre, although there are many other minority people in the region. The riverine, including most of the state's towns and villages surrounded by water is moderately inhabited. It covers approximately 39% of the total land mass and holds a significant Ijaw population.\n\nThis list refers to the various autochthonous ethnic groups residing within Rivers State's boundaries in addition to its upland and riverine areas.\n"}
{"id": "37999532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37999532", "title": "List of reportedly haunted locations in Canada", "text": "List of reportedly haunted locations in Canada\n\nThis is a list of locations in Canada which are reported to be haunted. Many have been featured by television programs such as Creepy Canada, The Girly Ghosthunters and Mystery Hunters. It is in alphabetical order by province or territory, then by the name of the location.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18570680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18570680", "title": "Lodha", "text": "Lodha\n\nLodha may refer to Hindu or Jain surname, caste, tribe or community which have different origin and class.\n"}
{"id": "454513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454513", "title": "Love hotel", "text": "Love hotel\n\nA love hotel is a type of short-stay hotel found around the world operated primarily for the purpose of allowing guests privacy for sexual activities. The name originates from \"Hotel Love\" in Osaka, which was built in 1968 and had a rotating sign.\n\nLove hotels can usually be identified using symbols such as hearts and the offer of a room rate for a as well as for an overnight stay. The period of a \"rest\" varies, typically ranging from one to three hours. Cheaper daytime off-peak rates are common. In general, reservations are not possible, and leaving the hotel will forfeit access to the room; overnight-stay rates become available only after 22:00. These hotels may be used for prostitution, although they are sometimes used by budget-travelers sharing accommodation.\n\nEntrances are discreet, and interaction with staff is minimized. Rooms are often selected from a panel of buttons, and the bill may be settled by pneumatic tube, automatic cash machine, or paying an unseen staff member behind a pane of frosted glass. Parking lots will often be concealed and windows will be few, so as to maximize privacy.\n\nAlthough cheaper hotels are often simply furnished, higher-end hotels may feature fanciful rooms decorated with anime characters, be equipped with rotating beds, ceiling mirrors, karaoke machines, and unusual lighting. They may be styled similarly to dungeons or other fantasy scenes, sometimes including S&M gear.\n\nThese hotels are typically either concentrated in city districts close to stations, near highways on the city outskirts, or in industrial districts. Love hotel architecture is sometimes garish, with buildings shaped like castles, boats or UFOs and lit with neon lighting. However, some more recent love hotels are very ordinary looking buildings, distinguished mainly by having small, covered, or even no windows.\n\nThe history of can be traced back to the early Edo period, when establishments appearing to be inns or teahouses with particular procedures for a discreet entry or even with secret tunnels for a discreet exit were built in Edo and in Kyoto. Modern love hotels developed from tea rooms () used mostly by prostitutes and their clients but also by lovers. After World War II, the term was adopted, originally for simple lodgings run by families with a few rooms to spare. These establishments appeared first around Ueno, Tokyo in part due to demand from Occupation forces, and boomed after 1958 when legal prostitution was abolished and the trade moved underground.\n\nThe introduction of the automobile in the 1960s brought with it the \"motel\" and further spread the concept. Japanese housing trends at the time were characterized by small homes with sleeping areas being used as common areas during the day and, as a result, little opportunity for parents to privately engage in intercourse. Married couples therefore began to frequent love hotels. By 1961, there were around 2,700 \"tsurekomi\" inns in central Tokyo alone. Hotels of the time featured unusual attractions such as swings and vibrating beds. The Meguro Emperor, the first castle-style love hotel, opened in 1973 and brought in an average of approximately ¥40 million monthly.\n\nIn 1984, the Businesses Affecting Public Morals Regulation Law placed love hotels under the jurisdiction of the police. For that reason, new hotels were built to avoid being classified as \"love hotels\"; the garish, over-the-top, bizarre designs and features of the past were significantly downplayed. Beginning in the 1980s, love hotels were also increasingly marketed toward women. A 2013 study showed that couples' selections of rooms at love hotels were made by women roughly 90% of the time. The Businesses Affecting Public Morals Regulation Law was amended in 2010, imposing even stricter limitations and blurring the line between regular hotels and love hotels. Keeping in mind legislation and a desire to seem more fashionable than competitors, an ever-changing palette of terms is used by hotel operators. Alternative names include \"romance hotel\", \"fashion hotel\", \"leisure hotel\", \"amusement hotel\", \"couples hotel\", and \"boutique hotel\".\n\nLove hotels have enough cultural significance to be added to the first edition of emojis in unicode 6.0.\n\nLove hotels (), also known as love motels, first appeared in South Korea in the mid-1980s. They were originally called \"Parktel\" (). Their boom and growth was originally attributed to the 1988 Olympics which took place in Seoul. The hotels have historically been seen as seedy, with some residents speaking out against them and not wanting them within certain distances of schools and residential areas. However, some hotel owners have tried to remove that element from their business by upgrading, offering cleaner modern services, and removing some of the more sexual elements from their decor. They are considered a taboo topic in South Korea and a photo exhibit of love motels taken by a foreigner created a controversy in 2010.\n\nThailand has had love motels since 1935 and there are approximately 100 establishments in Bangkok most densely located around Ratchadaphisek Road. The government no longer issues building permits for these types of motels, but some businesses work around the laws. In addition to short-stay, the motels are also used by foreign travellers on a budget.\n\nSimilar establishments also exist in some other Asian countries including Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong. India's first love hotel opened in 2015.\n\nThe same concept also exists in Central and South America. In Guatemala, they are called \"autohotels\"; in Chile \"motel\" or \"hotel pajero\" (couples' hotel); in the Dominican Republic, \"cabañas\", \"moteles\" or \"estaderos\"; in Panama they are called \"push buttons\" or \"push\" for short; in Argentina and Uruguay, \"albergue transitorio\" or more informally, \"telo\". In Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Puerto Rico, they are simply called \"motels\" (the word is exclusively used for love hotels). In Brazil motels (approximately 5000) are part of the urban landscape. Very popular, they are associated with erotic transgression, but also with romantic love.\n\nIn Nigeria, love hotels are called \"short-time\". They are often dingy accommodations in densely populated areas. Some other hotels offer \"short-time\" services unofficially.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, certain motels in low-income areas often serve similar functions as a Japanese love hotel. Colloquially known as \"no-tell motels\" or \"hot-sheets joints\", these are becoming scarce as local laws increasingly require renters' identification information to be recorded and given to law enforcement agencies. However, the Supreme Court recently struck down warrantless searches of hotel records.\n\nIn Oceania, New Zealand opened its first love hotel in May 2011, and Australia opened its first love hotel in August 2011.\n\nThe annual revenue of the love hotel industry in Japan is estimated at more than $40 billion, a figure double that of Japan's anime market.\n\nIt is estimated that more than 500 million visits to Japan's 37,000 love hotels take place each year, which is the equivalent of around 1.4 million couples, or 2% of Japan's population, visiting a love hotel each day. In recent years, the love hotel business has drawn the interest of the structured finance industry.\n\nSeveral transactions have been completed where the cash flows from a number of such hotels have been securitised and sold to international investors and buy-out funds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3133884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3133884", "title": "Man vs. Technology", "text": "Man vs. Technology\n\n\"Man vs technology\" is a theme in literature that places a character against technology.\n\n\"Frankenstein\" is often considered the classic exposition of this theme, with a scientifically created human becoming a destructive monster.\n\nIt is also a common theme in science fiction, with \"Blade Runner\", \"The Terminator\" and \"The Matrix\" being popular examples. Another example would be in \"\" when Frank and Dave battle their flight computer, the HAL 9000.\n\nOften, it is external as well as internal. It is mostly external conflict.\n\nConflict (narrative) for a list of narrative conflicts.\n"}
{"id": "57792639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57792639", "title": "Media independence", "text": "Media independence\n\nMedia independence is the absence of external control and influence on an institution or individual working in the media. It is a measure of one's capacity to \"make decisions and act according to its own logic,\" and distinguishes independent media from state media.\n\nThe concept of media independence has often been contested as a normative principle in media policy and journalism. Nick Couldry (2009) considers that digital transformations tend to compromise the press as a common good (with a blurring of the difference between journalism and advertising, for example) by the technological, political and social dynamics that it brings. For this reason, authors such as Daniel Hallin, Kelly McBride, and Tom Rosenstiel consider other norms (such as transparency and participation) to be more relevant. Karppinen and Moe state that \"what we talk about when we talk about media independence, then, are the characteristics of the relations between, on the one side, specific entities ranging from media institutions, via journalistic cultures, to individual speakers, and, on the other, their social environment, including the state, political interest groups, the market or the mainstream culture.\"\n\nTwo factors tend to influence media independence. The disruption and crisis in business models that have supported print and broadcast media for decades have left traditional media outlets more vulnerable to external influences as they seek to establish new revenue sources. In many regions, austerity measures have led to large-scale budget cuts of public service broadcasters, dislocating employees and limiting innovation in programming.\n\nAn indicator of a lack of independence is the level of public trust in the credibility of journalism. According to the Edelman Trust Barometer, trust in media seems to be declining, reflecting declines of trust in government, business and NGOs. Since 2012, online media has become more and more popular, gaining trust throughout the world, but for Mindi Chahal, awareness on the risk of \"fake-news\", filter bubbles and algorithms has begun to change perceptions of the credibility of online information. Anya Schiffrin says that despite the initial optimism that social media would reduce such tendencies by enabling broader citizen participation in media, there are growing signals that social media are similarly susceptible to political capture and polarization, further impacting on the trust that users may have towards information on these platforms.\n\nMedia regulators impact on the editorial independence of the media, which is still deeply entwined with political and economic influences and pressures. Private media - functioning outside of governments' control and with minimum official regulation - are still dependent on advertising support, risking potential misuse of advertisers as a political tool by larger advertisers such as governments.\n\nNew technologies has added new meaning to what constitutes media independence. The collection, selection, aggregation, synthesis and processing of data are now increasingly delegated to forms of automation. While the sharing of social media posts is crucial in elevating the importance of certain news sources or stories, what appears in individual news feeds on platforms such as Facebook or news aggregators such as Google News is the product of other forces as well. This includes algorithmic calculations, which remove professional editorial judgement, in favor of past consumption patterns by the individual user and his/her social network. In 2016, users declared preferring algorithms over editors for selecting the news they wanted to read. Despite apparent neutrality algorithms may often compromise editorial integrity, and have been found to lead to discrimination against people based on their race, socio-economic situation and geographic location.\n\nThe role of regulatory authorities (license broadcaster institutions, content providers, platforms) and the resistance to political and commercial interference in the autonomy of the media sector are both considered as significant components of media independence. In order to ensure media independence, regulatory authorities should be placed outside of governments' directives. this can be measured through legislation, agency statutes and rules.\n\nThe process of issuing licenses in many regions still lacks transparency and is considered to follow procedures that are obscure and concealing. In many countries, regulatory authorities stand accused of political bias in favor of the government and ruling party, whereby some prospective broadcasters have been denied licenses or threatened with the withdrawal of licenses. In many countries, diversity of content and views have diminished as monopolies, fostered directly or indirectly by States. This not only impacts on competition but leads to a concentration of power with potentially excessive influence on public opinion. Buckley et al. cite failure to renew or retain licenses for editorially critical media; folding the regulator into government ministries or reducing its competences and mandates for action; and lack of due process in the adoption of regulatory decisions, among others, as examples in which these regulators are formally compliant with sets of legal requirements on independence, but their main task in reality is seen to be that of enforcing political agendas.\n\nState control is also evident in the increasing politicization of regulatory bodies operationalized through transfers and appointments of party-aligned individuals to senior positions in regulatory authorities.\n\nGovernments worldwide have sought to extend regulation to internet companies, whether connectivity providers or application service providers, and whether domestically or foreign-based. The impact on journalistic content can be severe, as internet companies can err too much on the side of caution and take down news reports, including algorithmically, while offering inadequate opportunities for redress to the affected news producers.\n\nIn Western Europe, self-regulation provides an alternative to state regulatory authorities. In such contexts, newspapers have historically been free of licensing and regulation, and there has been repeated pressure for them to self-regulate or at least to have in-house ombudsmen. However, it has often been difficult to establish meaningful self-regulatory entities.\n\nIn many cases, self-regulations exists in the shadow of state regulation, and is conscious of the possibility of state intervention. In many countries in Central and Eastern Europe, self-regulatory structures seems to be lacking or have not historically been perceived as efficient and effective.\n\nThe rise of satellite delivered channels, delivered directly to viewers, or through cable or online systems, renders much larger the sphere of unregulated programing. There are, however, varying efforts to regulate the access of programmers to satellite transponders in parts of the Western Europe and North American region, the Arab region and in Asia and the Pacific. The Arab Satellite Broadcasting Charter was an example of efforts to bring formal standards and some regulatory authority to bear on what is transmitted, but it appears to not have been implemented.\n\nSelf-regulation is expressed as a preferential system by journalists but also as a support for media freedom and development organizations by intergovernmental organizations such as UNESCO and non-governmental organizations. There has been a continued trend of establishing self-regulatory bodies, such as press councils, in conflict and post-conflict situations.\n\nMajor internet companies have responded to pressure by governments and the public by elaborating self-regulatory and complaints systems at the individual company level, using principles they have developed under the framework of the Global Network Initiative. The Global Network Initiative has grown to include several large telecom companies alongside internet companies such as Google, Facebook and others, as well as civil society organizations and academics.\n\nThe European Commission’s 2013 publication, ICT Technology Sector Guide on Implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, impacts on the presence of independent journalism by defining the limits of what should or should not be carried and prioritized in the most popular digital spaces.\n\nPublic pressure on technology giants has motivated the development of new strategies aimed not only at identifying ‘fake news’, but also at eliminating some of the structural causes of their emergence and proliferation. Facebook has created new buttons for users to report content they believe is false, following previous strategies aimed at countering hate speech and harassment online. These changes reflect broader transformations occurring among tech giants to increase their transparency. As indicated by the Ranking Digital Rights Corporate Accountability Index, most large internet companies have reportedly become relatively more forthcoming in terms of their policies about transparency in regard to third party requests to remove or access content, especially in the case of requests from governments. At the same time, however, the study signaled a number of companies that have become more opaque when it comes to disclosing how they enforce their own terms of service, in restricting certain types of content and account.\n\nIn addition to responding to pressure for more clearly defined self-regulatory mechanisms, and galvanized by the debates over so-called ‘fake news’, internet companies such as Facebook have launched campaigns to educate users about how to more easily distinguish between ‘fake news’ and real news sources. Ahead of the United Kingdom national election in 2017, for example, Facebook published a series of advertisements in newspapers with ‘Tips for Spotting False News’ which suggested 10 things that might signal whether a story is genuine or not. There have also been broader initiatives bringing together a variety of donors and actors to promote fact-checking and news literacy, such as the News Integrity Initiative at the City University of New York’s School of Journalism. This 14 million USD investment by groups including the Ford Foundation and Facebook was launched in 2017 so its full impact remains to be seen. It will, however, complement the offerings of other networks such as the International Fact-Checking Network launched by the Poynter Institute in 2015 which seeks to outline the parameters of the field.\n\nThe media systems around the world are often put under pressure by the widespread delegitimisation by political actors of the media as a venerable institution along with the profession of journalism, and the growing efforts made towards media capture, particularly online media, which has often been regarded as more resistant to such form of control than other types of media.\n\nPowerful actors such as governments have often been seen to initiate and engage in the process of systematic attacks on the media by trivializing it, or sometimes characterizing it as an ‘enemy’ has widespread implications for the independence and well-being of the sector. This can be particularly apparent during elections. A common tactic is to blur the distinction between mainstream news media, and the mass of unverified content on social media. Delegitimisation is a subtle and effective form of propaganda, reducing the public’s confidence in the media to perform a collective function as a check on government. This can be seen as being linked political and social polarization.\n\nIn some regions, delegitimisation is reportedly combined with wider attacks on independent media: key properties have been closed down or sold to parties with ties to the government. Newer entrants linked to state power and vast resources gain sway. Opposition to these pressures may strengthen the defense of the press as civil society and mobilize the public in protest, but in some cases, this conflict leads to fear-induced apathy or withdrawal. Advertisers and investors may be scared-off by delegitimisation.\n\nEfforts to curtail criminal defamation are still ongoing in many regions but the dangers from civil law suits with high costs and high risk are also rising, leading to a greater likelihood of bankruptcy of media outlets. Independence is weakened where the right of journalists to criticize public officials is threatened. A general assault on the media can lead to measures making journalists more frequently liable for publishing state secrets and their capacity to shield sources can be reduced. Delegitimizing the media makes it easier to justify these legal changes that make the news business even more precarious.\n\nMedia capture refers to the full range of forces that can restrict or skew coverage. It has been defined as \"a situation where the media have not succeeded in becoming autonomous in manifesting a will of their own, nor able to perform their main function, notably of informing people. Instead, they have persisted in an intermediate state, with vested interests, and not just the government, using them for other purposes.\" Mungiu-Pippidi considers that capture corrupts the main role of the media: to inform the public, with media outlets instead opting to trade influence and manipulate information. A distinguishing feature of media capture is the collaboration by the private sector. Cases abound across all regions of bloggers and citizen journalists putting a spotlight on specific issues and reporting on the ground during protests.\n\nFull capture can also be complicated to achieve. Paid trolls leading to phenomena such as paid Twitter and mob attacks, along with fake news and rumors, are reportedly able to widely disseminate their attacks on independent journalists with the aid of bots. Across much of Africa, a trend of \"serial callers\" has become increasingly common. Also observed in other regions, such as in North America where the phenomenon is commonly referred to as \"astroturfing\", serial callers are often individuals commissioned by political actors to constantly phone in to popular radio call in programmes with the intention of skewing or influencing the program in their interest. In some cases, the programme might be structurally biased towards such actors (e.g., there will be a dedicated phone for those that have planned to phone in with particular political sympathies) but in other cases the process is more ad hoc with sympathetic callers flooding particular radio programs.\n\nFinancial threats on media independence can be concentrated ownership power, bankruptcy, or unsustainable funding for public service broadcasters. Capital controls for media are in place in all regions to manage foreign direct investment in the media sector. Many governments in Africa, Latin America and Caribbean, and the Asia and Pacific regions have passed stringent laws and regulations that limit or forbid foreign media ownership, especially in the broadcasting and telecom sectors, with mixed impact on editorial independence. In Latin America, almost two thirds of the 15 countries covered by a World Bank study on foreign direct investments impose restrictions on foreign ownership in the newspaper-publishing sector. Almost all countries specify a cap on the foreign investment in media sector, although increasingly the strategy in the region has been to absorb private and foreign capital and experience of media management without losing ownership and political control of the media sector. It is more complex to regulate ownership issues when the companies are internet platforms spanning multiple jurisdictions, although European competition and tax law has responded to some of the challenges in this regard, with unclear impact on the issue of independence of journalistic content on Internet companies.\n\nAcross the industry, media outlets have been re-evaluating where the value in media content lies, with a corresponding increase in government development programs, corporate benefactors and other special interests funding or cross-funding media content. These kinds of funding have been common historically in international broadcasting, and they typically influence actual media content, framing, and the ‘red lines’ different from professional principles that reporters feel unable to cross. While larger media companies have relied on attracting their own advertisers online, many online intermediaries such as Google Ads now exist, which effectively has meant that small online media companies can get some revenues without having to have dedicated facilities—although the requirements of platforms like Facebook for video content, and the power to change news feeds without consultation do compromise editorial autonomy. In addition, the media organization concerned can no longer exert strong control over what advertisements are shown, nor can it benefit from accessing full audience data to strengthen its own revenue prospects.\n\nAccording to the Worlds of Journalism Study, journalists in 18 of the 21 countries surveyed in Western Europe and North America perceived their freedom to make editorial decisions independently to have shrunken in the past five years. In all other regions, a plurality of journalists in most countries reported their editorial freedom to have strengthened. While there remains a marked decline in print advertising sales in these States, some newspapers are reporting an increase in digital advertising revenues and subscriptions that have enabled expansions of newsrooms that previously faced significant financial difficulty. This development partly reflects the relationship between major news brands and electoral cycles but it may also signal a growing willingness on the part of readers to pay for quality digital content.\n\nSeveral tools and organizations commit to mitigate political and economic interference in the media system.\n\nIn some countries, the rise of trade bodies as a dominating site of advocacy seems to limit the plurality of voices involved or consulted to those representing mainly owner interests in decision-making. This has occurred as the lobbying power of media elites has increased with ownership consolidation, particularly in North America. In some cases, the relative formal independence of the media regulator from government may have made it more vulnerable to capture by commercial interests. Some of the board members from these trade bodies and associations sit on government working groups and are members of committees. Such members often facilitate the associations’ indirect participation in the drafting of media laws and policy.\n\nAccording to the World Trends in Freedom of Expression and Media Development Global Report 2017/2018, there is a strong societal demand for the professionalization of regulatory and media bodies:\n\n\n\nDonor support of media development and freedom of expression non-governmental organizations can vary widely. A report by the National Endowment for Democracy’s Center for International Media Assistance (CIMA) highlighted the swings in funding by tracking United States Agency for International Development (USAID) funding to different regions over the past three years.\n\nPrivate foundations based in the Global North are increasingly providing grants to media organizations in the Global South. Such funds are often directed to cover specific topics of interest, such as health or education, and these donations can either support or weaken editorial independence.\n\nIn the newsroom, women sometimes face hostility. This can be partly explained by the lack of organizational policies relating to gender equality and reporting mechanisms for harassment. The International Women’s Media Foundation’s 2011 global study of women in the news media, found that more than half of the news media organizations surveyed had a company-wide policy on gender equality, but with significant variations between regions. More than two-thirds of organizations based in Western Europe and Africa had such policies, compared with a quarter in the Middle East and North Africa and less than 20 per cent in Central and Eastern European countries.\n\nThe European Institute for Gender Equality’s 2013 report, which looked at 99 major media houses across Europe, found that a quarter of organizations had policies that included a provision for gender equality, often as part of broader equality directives in the society. It was notable that of the 99 organizations, public service bodies were much more likely than commercial ones to have equality policies in place.\n\nSeveral regional gender monitoring initiatives exist. The South Africa-based Gender Links, formed in 2001 to promote \"gender equality in and through the media\" in Southern Africa, leads the media cluster of the Southern Africa Gender Protocol Alliance. Gender Links promotes media advocacy through global initiatives such as the Global Alliance on Media and Gender (GAMAG), hosting gender and media summits, developing policy in collaboration with regulators and working with media organizations through training and policy development. Gender Links is currently developing Centres of Excellence for Gender in the Media in 108 newsrooms across Southern Africa and has established eight Centres of Excellence for Gender in Media Education.\n\nIn 2016, the World Association for Christian Communication (WACC), the Global Media Monitoring Project (GMMP) Network and other partners launched a campaign to end news media sexism by 2020. The ‘End News Media Sexism’ campaign encourages and supports advocacy initiatives that promote changes in media policies and journalism practice. The campaign is taking a multi-disciplinary approach and uses a variety of different tools to promote awareness, including a gender scorecard against which media organizations are measured.\n\nThe African Women’s Development and Communication Network (FEMNET), founded in 1988 as part of a broader project to promote women’s empowerment in Africa, prioritizes women’s development in the field of communication, where they have created and managed platforms to share information, ideas, strategies and experiences to foster cross-learning and more effective implementation of shared goals. FEMNET provides strategic policy recommendations through the production of reports and policy briefs. It has led extensive local capacity building initiatives, such as facilitating women’s access to information and communication technologies (ICTs) in Africa.\n\nIn Asia, the South Asia Women’s Network (SWAN) has rolled out a research project titled \"Women for Change: Building a Gendered Media in South Asia\". Covering nine South Asian countries, it is partly supported by UNESCO’s International Programme for the Development of Communication.\n\nA number of national organizations work locally to redress the disparity in women’s representation and participation in the media. Women, Media and Development (known by its Arabic acronym TAM) is a Palestine-based organization founded in 2004. TAM works with local women to promote their increased representation in the media and to foster an environment where they are able to effectively communicate and advocate for their rights. TAM provides training for women on how to access and use various media platforms, in addition to promoting community awareness and advocacy initiatives. TAM has facilitated capacity building and worked to counter stereotypes of women in the media by producing gender sensitive guides and training manuals, in addition to implementing projects that aim to increase women’s access to decision-making positions and civic participation.\n\nFormal and informal networks of women media professionals support women in media. The Alliance for Women in Media (AWM), established in 1951 participate in training and professional development and celebrate their talents. In 1975, it began its annual programme of awards to recognize the work of programme-makers and content-providers in promoting women and women's issues.\n\nMarie Colvin Journalists' Network - a bilingual Arabic-English online community of women journalists working in the Arab world - aims to assist vulnerable women journalist who lack support in relation to safety training, legal contracts, insurance or psychological care. The network links experienced journalists with new or isolated journalists for mentoring and peer-to-peer support, while also working closely with experts in media law, digital security, and health and safety to ensure specialized advice and assistance.\n\nMedia unions at local, regional and global levels have established caucuses for women and have campaigned to encourage more women to stand for elected office within formal union structures. In 2001, the International Federation of Journalists found that women represented 29 per cent of union membership in 38 countries but just 17 per cent of members on union governing bodies: in its 2010 report, it found that women’s representation on boards had increased only slightly, to 15 per cent. In Europe, between 2006 and 2013, women’s union membership went down from 45 per cent to 42 per cent and board membership also declined, from 39 per cent to 36 per cent.\n\n"}
{"id": "8871076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8871076", "title": "Mirali (Baloch tribe)", "text": "Mirali (Baloch tribe)\n\nMirali is a Baloch tribe in Balochistan and Sindh in Shikarpur.\n"}
{"id": "7008015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7008015", "title": "Modern expressionism", "text": "Modern expressionism\n\nModern expressionism is an alternative term for Symbolism. Visual artists described as modern expressionist include the American painter Marcus Jansen South African Gerard Sekoto, whose work in the 1940s drew on Fauvism and Post-Impressionism.\n"}
{"id": "20925430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20925430", "title": "Orfeón Donostiarra", "text": "Orfeón Donostiarra\n\nThe Orfeón Donostiarra is a concert choir based in San Sebastián, Basque Country, Spain.\n\nThe choir was formed in 1897 in San Sebastián. The first music directors were Miguel Oñate, Luzuriaga and Esnaola. In June 1906 the group was awarded the Gran Prix of Paris. The next music director was Juan Gorostidi, who served until his death 1968, when Antxón Ayestarán became the next conductor. Since 1986 the choir is conducted by its presend music director José Antonio Sáinz.\n\nAt the heart of the Chorus's repertoire are the most important \"a capella\" works from the 18th century to our time, as well as the great nineteenth and twentieth century large scale orchestral choral works. The choir has been invited to perform with orchestras such as the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, the English Chamber Orchestra, the Czech Philharmonic, the Dresden Philharmonic, the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, the Deutsches Symphonie-Orchester Berlin, Madrid Symphony Orchestra, Israel Chamber Orchestra, Lucerne Festival Orchestra, Spanish National Orchestra, Residentie Orchestra, Bilbao Symphony Orchestra, West-Eastern Divan, London Philharmonic Orchestra, and Russian National Orchestra.\n\nConductors have included Claudio Abbado, Ataúlfo Argenta, Daniel Barenboim, Kurt Masur, Rafael Frühbeck de Burgos, Jesús López-Cobos, Peter Maag, Charles Mackerras, Igor Markevitch, Lorin Maazel, Zubin Mehta, Riccardo Muti, Seiji Ozawa, Esa-Pekka Salonen and Leopold Stokowski, among others.\n\nThe Orfeón Donostiarra has recorded over 120 CDs, including CDs for EMI, RTVE Música and Deutsche Grammophon.\n\nThe performance of Mahler's Second Symphony with the Lucerne Festival Orchestra and Claudio Abbado has been released on DVD and YouTube (per EuroArts).\n\n"}
{"id": "26209155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26209155", "title": "Qualified Mental Retardation Professional", "text": "Qualified Mental Retardation Professional\n\nQualified Mental Retardation Professional (QMRP) is a term first used in federal standards developed in the late 1970s and early 1980s for intermediate care facilities for the developmentally disabled.\n\nUnder federal law, any person working as a Qualified Mental Retardation Professional is required to meet the minimum requirements outlined in \"Appendix J, Survey Procedures And Interpretive Guidelines For Intermediate Care Facilities For Persons With Mental Retardation.\"\n\nAppendix J (W160 through W163) requires a QMRP to have a bachelor's degree in human services or a related field of study, plus at least one year of experience working with people diagnosed as developmentally disabled. Registered nurses and physicians also qualify to serve as a QMRP.\n\nSome states, including California, require a QMRP to be licensed to work in the state. Other states, including Texas (which has over 900 Intermediate Care Facility/DD homes) and Alabama, do not require licensing.\n\nIn 2010, Rosa's Law changed the terminology from \"Mental Retardation\" to \"Intellectual Disability.”\n\nThis change has prompted several states and organizations to change the designation of a QMRP to either \"QDDP,\" meaning \"Qualified Developmental Disability Professional,\" or \"QIDP,\" meaning \"Qualified Intellectual Disability Professional\".\n\nIn December 2013, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) formally updated Appendix J to change the language used to describe developmental disabilities.\n\nIt is possible that, as facilities start to phase out or convert to other programs (such as waiver-type settings) for people with disabilities, the terms QMRP, QDDP, and QIDP may be removed completely.\n\nThere are several professional organizations for QMRPs.\n\nThe most notable organization, the National Association of QDDPs, holds annual meetings around the United States and offers a network for QMRPs to stay in contact with other QMRP groups. There are also state-level organizations that provide training and resources to QMRPs.\n\nSome organizations have started providing consulting services including training, standards, and reports such as the Private Provider's Association of Texas, My QIDP, and the QMRP, a California-based organization.\n"}
{"id": "12827811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12827811", "title": "Sami orthography", "text": "Sami orthography\n\nSámi orthography refers to the various orthographies used by the seven Sámi languages that have their own literary language: Southern Sami, Ume Sámi, Lule Sami, Northern Sami, Inari Sami, Skolt Sami and Kildin Sami.\n\nThree different orthographical trends can be identified for these Sámi languages. The first one uses the principle of having the Sámi orthography be the same as it is for the majority language of that country as its basis. This trend goes back to the traditions where the Sami language was first being used as a written language, i.e., in Sweden. The literary language there that followed this principle was based on the old Ume Sami literary language from the 18th century. This same literary language was partially used as the basis for the modern literary languages of Southern Sami and Lule Sami. The oldest orthography for Northern Sámi in Norway, that of Knud Leem, upholds this tradition. The second tradition goes back to Rasmus Rask's revision of Leem's orthography, as Rask builds on the phonemic principle. North Sami, Inari Sami, and Skolt Sami follow this tradition. The third tradition is represented by the Kildin Sami language for which a written language has been created three times: first by Russian missionaries using the Cyrillic alphabet as the basis for the language's orthography, then using the Latin alphabet at the end of 1920s into the 1930s as part of Joseph Stalin's language policy for minority languages, and finally once again returning to the Cyrillic alphabet at the end of the 1970s.\n\nThe Sámi strongly feel that they are one people. For this reason, proposals for a united Sami literary language have been made. The differences amongst the various languages are, however, too large to make this feasible.\n\nWith the exception of Kildin Sámi, the Sámi languages that have their own literary language are written with the standard Latin alphabet with the addition of some special characters.\n\nSouthern Sami follows the principle of using the majority language of the particular country it is being used in as the basis for its orthography and thus has two separate versions: the Norwegian standard and the Swedish standard. The letters enclosed in parentheses are letters that are only used in foreign words. In addition, \"ï\" is a central version of \"i\" . Although this difference is clearly indicated in dictionaries, most texts do not distinguish between the two. The collating order is however based on Norwegian across both sides of the border.\n\nThe Bergsland-Hasselbrink orthography was in use in 1957 and is similar to the orthography used for Northern Sami during the same period:\n\nThe Ume Sámi orthography has been in use for decades, but was finally approved in 2016:\n\nLike Southern Sámi, Lule Sámi follows the principle of using the majority language of the particular country it's being written in as the basis for its orthography and thus has two separate versions: the Norwegian standard and the Swedish standard. The standard orthography for Lule Sami was approved in 1983.\n\n\nNorthern Sámi has a long orthographic history, which has witnessed no less than nine different versions. The most recent version was approved in 1979 and last modified in 1985:\n\nThe following alphabet for Inari Sámi was approved in 1996.\n\nThe latest version of the official orthography for Kildin Sámi uses Cyrillic:\n\nNote that ' is a variant of Һ and Ҋ is a variant of Ј, there is also a variant of the alphabet not using these two letters at all.\n"}
{"id": "196295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196295", "title": "Shelta", "text": "Shelta\n\nShelta (; Irish: \"Seiltis\") is a language spoken by Irish Travellers, particularly in Ireland and the United Kingdom. It is widely known as the Cant, to its native speakers in Ireland as De Gammon, and to the linguistic community as Shelta. It was often used as a cryptolect to exclude outsiders from comprehending conversations between Travellers, although this aspect is frequently over-emphasised. The exact number of native speakers is hard to determine due to sociolinguistic issues but \"Ethnologue\" puts the number of speakers at 30,000 in UK, 6,000 in Ireland, and 50,000 in the US. The figure for at least the UK is dated to 1990; it is not clear if the other figures are from the same source.\n\nLinguistically Shelta is today seen as a mixed language that stems from a community of travelling people in Ireland that was originally predominantly Irish-speaking. The community later went through a period of widespread bilingualism that resulted in a language based heavily on Hiberno-English with heavy influences from Irish. As different varieties of Shelta display different degrees of anglicisation (see below), it is hard to determine the extent of the Irish substratum. The \"Oxford Companion to the English Language\" puts it at 2,000–3,000 words.\n\nThe language is known by various names. People outside the Traveller community often refer to it as \"(the) Cant\", the etymology of which is a matter of debate. Speakers of the language refer to it as \"(the) Cant\", \"Gammon\" or \"Tarri\". Amongst linguists, the name \"Shelta\" is the most commonly used term.\n\nVariants of the above names and additional names include \"Bog Latin\", \"Caintíotar\", \"Gammon\", \"Sheldru\", \"Shelter\", \"Shelteroch\", \"the Ould Thing\", \"Tinker's Cant\".\n\nThe word Shelta appears in print for the first time in 1882 in the book \"The Gypsies\" by the \"gypsiologist\" Charles Leland, who claimed to have discovered it as the \"fifth Celtic tongue\". The etymology of the word has long been a matter of debate: Modern Celticists are convinced that Irish ' \"to walk\" is at the root, either via a term such as ' \"a walker\" or a form of the gerund ' (cf. \"an lucht siúlta\" , \"the walking people\" (lit. \"the people of walks\"), the traditional Irish term for Travellers). The \"Dictionary of Hiberno-English\" cites it as possibly a corruption of the word \"Celt\". Since Shelta is a mixture of English and Irish grammar, the etymology is not straightforward. The language is made up mostly of Irish lexicon, being classified as a grammar-lexicon language with the grammar being English-based.\n\nLinguists have been documenting Shelta since at least the 1870s. The first works were published in 1880 and 1882 by Charles Leland. Celtic language expert Kuno Meyer and Romani expert John Sampson both assert that Shelta existed as far back as the 13th century.\n\nIn the earliest but undocumented period linguists surmise that the Traveller community was Irish-speaking until a period of widespread bilingualism in Irish and Hiberno-English (or Scots in Scotland) set in, leading to creolisation (possibly with a trilingual stage). The resulting language is referred to as \"Old Shelta\" and it is suspected that this stage of the language displayed distinctive features, such as non-English syntactic and morphological features, no longer found in Shelta.\n\nWithin the diaspora, various sub-branches of Shelta exist. English Shelta is increasingly undergoing anglicisation, while American Irish-Traveller's Cant, originally also synonymous with Shelta, has by now been almost fully anglicised.\n\nSociologist Sharon Gmelch describes the Travellers' language as follows:\n\nThus, it is not mutually intelligible with either English or Irish, out of design.\n\nShelta is a secret language. Travellers do not like to share the language with outsiders, named “Buffers”, or non-travellers. When speaking Shelta in front of Buffers, Travellers will disguise the structure so as to make it seem like they aren't speaking Shelta at all.\n\nWhile Shelta is influenced by English grammar, it is also a mixture of Gaelic and Irish words as well. The word order itself is altered, with syllables reversed and many of the original words are Irish that have been altered or reversed. Many Shelta words have been disguised using techniques such as back slang where sounds are transposed (for example \"gop\" \"kiss\" from Irish \"póg\") or the addition of sounds (for example \"gather\" \"father\" from Irish \"athair\"). Other examples include \"lackin\" or \"lakeen\" \"girl\" from Irish \"cailín\", and the word \"rodas\" \"door\" from Irish \"doras\". The word for “son” is changed from the Gaelic \"mac\" to the Shelta \"kam.\"\n\nIt also contains a certain number of introduced lexical items from Romani such as the term \"gadje\" \"non-Traveller\" or \"kushti\" (from the Romanichal word for \"good\"). Ten percent of the Gammon language comes from Romani.\n\nShelta shares its main syntactic features with Hiberno-English and the majority of its morphological features such as -s plurals and past tense markers. Compare:\nShelta has 27 consonants and six vowels.\n\nThe consonants are /p, pʲ, b, bʲ, m, mʲ, w, t, tʲ, d, dʲ, n, nʲ, θ, ð, r, rʲ, l, ʎ, ʃ, t͡ʃ, y, k, kʲ, g, gʲ, χ/. Many words are complex by incorporating numerous consonants within, as in the word skraχo for “tree, bush’ with the consonant /χ/ being a hissing sound that is held in the back of the throat, and is held longer than other consonants.\n\nIncidentally, there is not as much importance put on gender in Shelta. Plurals are shown with the English suffix /–s/ or /-i/, such as gloχ for “man” becomes gloχi for “men”.\n\nSome Shelta words have been borrowed by mainstream English speakers, such as the word \"bloke\" meaning \"a man\" in the mid-19th century.\n\nThere is no standard orthography. Broadly speaking, Shelta can either be written following an Irish-type orthography or an English-type orthography. For example, the word for \"married\" can either be spelled \"lósped\" or \"lohsped\", a \"woman\" can either be spelled \"byohr\" or \"beoir\".\n\nBelow are reproductions of the \"Lord's Prayer\" in Shelta as it occurred a century ago, current Shelta, and modern English and Irish versions for comparison. The 19th century Shelta version shows a high Shelta lexical content while the Cant version shows a much lower Shelta lexical content. Both versions are adapted from Hancock who notes that the Cant reproduction is not exactly representative of actual speech in normal situations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730274", "title": "Shilha language", "text": "Shilha language\n\nShilha is a Berber language native to Shilha people. It is spoken by more than seven million people in southwestern Morocco. The endonym is Tacelḥiyt , and in recent English publications the language is often rendered \"Tashelhiyt\" or \"Tashelhit\". The alternative name Tasusiyt (\"language of the Sous\") has been gaining currency among native speakers. In Moroccan Arabic the language is called \"Šəlḥa\", from which the alternative English name \"Shilha\" is derived. In French sources the language is called \"tachelhit\", \"chelha\" or \"chleuh\".\n\nShilha is spoken in an area covering c. 100,000 square kilometres, comprising the western part of the High Atlas mountains and the regions to the south up to the Draa River, including the Anti-Atlas and the alluvial basin of the Sous River. The largest urban centres in the area are the coastal city of Agadir (population over 400,000) and the towns of Guelmim, Taroudant, Oulad Teima, Tiznit and Ouarzazate.\n\nIn the north and to the south, Shilha borders on Arabic-speaking areas. In the northeast, roughly along the line Marrakesh-Zagora, there is a dialect continuum with Central Atlas Tamazight. Within the Shilha area, there are several Arabic-speaking enclaves, notably the town of Taroudant and its surroundings. Substantial Shilha-speaking migrant communities are found in most of the larger towns and cities of northern Morocco and outside Morocco in Belgium, France, Germany, Canada, the United States and Israel.\n\nShilha possesses a distinct and substantial literary tradition that can be traced back several centuries before the colonial era. Many texts, written in Arabic script and dating from the late 16th century to the present, are preserved in manuscripts. A modern printed literature in Shilha has developed since the 1970s.\n\nShilha speakers usually refer to their language as \"Tašlḥiyt\". This name is morphologically a feminine noun, derived from masculine \"Acelḥiy\" \"male speaker of Shilha\". Shilha names of other languages are formed in the same way, for example \"Aɛṛab\" \"an Arab\", \"Taɛṛabt\" \"the Arabic language\".\n\nThe noun \"Acelḥiy\", though now freely used as an endonym among Shilha speakers, is exonymic in origin, as the nominal stem \"šlḥ\" goes back to the Arabic noun \"šilḥ\" \"bandit\" (plural \"šulūḥ\"). The initial \"A-\" in \"Acelḥiy\" is the Shilha nominal prefix (see ). The ending \"-iy\" (borrowed from the Arabic suffix \"-iyy\") forms denominal nouns and adjectives. There are also variant forms \"Acelḥay\" and \"Tacelḥayt\", with \"-ay\" instead of \"-iy\" under the influence of the preceding consonant \"ḥ\". The plural of \"Acelḥiy\" is \"Icelḥiyn\"; a single female speaker is a \"Tacelḥiyt\" (noun homonymous with the name of the language), plural \"Ticelḥiyin\".\n\nIn Moroccan colloquial Arabic, a male speaker is called a \"Šəlḥ\", plural \"Šluḥ\", and the language is \"Šəlḥa\", a feminine derivation calqued on \"Tašlḥiyt\". The Moroccan Arabic names have been borrowed into English as \"a Shilh\", \"the Shluh\", and \"Shilha\", and into French as \"un Chleuh\", \"les Chleuhs\", and \"chelha\" or, more commonly, \"le chleuh\".\n\nThe exonymic, uncomplimentary origin of the names \"Tacelḥiyt\" and \"Acelḥiy\" now seems lost from memory in Morocco among both Berbers and Arabs, but Stumme (1899:3) noted that a speaker of Shilha will call himself an \"Acelḥiy\" while being fully aware that it is a term of abuse, taking his revenge by calling an Arab \"izikr\" \"rope\" (referring to the well-known Bedouin headgear).\n\nThe now usual names \"Tacelḥiyt\" and \"Icelḥiyn\" seem to have gained the upper hand relatively recently, as they are attested only in those manuscript texts which date from the 19th and 20th centuries. In older texts, the language is still referred to as \"Tamaziɣt\" or \"Tamazixt\" \"Tamazight\". For example, the author Awzal (early 18th c.) speaks of \"nnaḍm n Tmazixt ann ifulkin\" \"a composition in that beautiful Tamazight\".\n\nBecause Sous is the most heavily populated part of the language area, the name \"Tasusiyt\" (lit. \"language of Sous\") is now often used as a \"pars pro toto\" for the entire language. A speaker of \"Tasusiyt\" is an \"Asusiy\", plural \"Isusiyn\", feminine \"Tasusiyt\", plural \"Tisusiyin\".\n\nCompletely reliable data on the number of Berberophones in Morocco do not exist. Ethnologue, in its 17th-20th editions (2014-2017) cited the numbers yielded by the Moroccan census of 2004, according to which there were around 4 million speakers of Tashelhiyt, accounting for 13 percent of the total population. In its 21st edition (2018), Ethnologue quotes a number of around 7 million speakers for the year 2016 (source not mentioned), or 20 percent of the population. Assuming that Ethnologue’s 2016 figure is correct, it appears that the 2004 census seriously underreported the number of speakers, as it is highly unlikely that the proportion of Tashelhiyt speakers in Morocco has actually risen by 7 percentage points between 2004 and 2016.\n\nSome authors mention a much higher number of Shilha speakers. Stroomer (2001a) estimated that there are \"some 6 to 8 million\" speakers, and he subsequently (2008) raised the number to \"some 8 to 9 million\". Stroomer does not refer to any published sources supporting his estimates, which are certainly too high.\n\nAlthough many speakers of Shilha, especially men, are bilingual in Moroccan Arabic, there are as yet no indications that the survival of Shilha as a living language will be seriously threatened in the immediate future. Because of the rapid growth of the Moroccan population over the past decades (from 12 million in 1961 to over 33 million in 2014), it is safe to say that Shilha is now spoken by more people than ever before in history.\n\nDialect differentiation within Shilha, such as it is, has not been the subject of any targeted research, but several scholars have noted that all varieties of Shilha are mutually intelligible. The first was Stumme, who observed that all speakers can understand each other, \"because the individual dialects of their language are not very different.\" This was later confirmed by Ahmed Boukous, a Moroccan linguist and himself a native speaker of Shilha, who stated: \"Shilha is endowed with a profound unity which permits the Shluh to communicate without problem, from the Ihahan in the northwest to the Aït Baamran in the southwest, from the Achtouken in the west to the Iznagen in the east, and from Aqqa in the desert to Tassaout in the plain of Marrakesh.\"\n\nThere exists no sharply defined boundary between Shilha dialects and the dialects of Central Atlas Tamazight (CAT). The dividing line is generally put somewhere along the line Marrakesh-Zagora, with the speech of the Ighoujdamen, Iglioua and Aït Ouaouzguite ethnic groups belonging to Shilha, and that of the neighboring Inoultan, Infedouak and Imeghran ethnic groups counted as CAT.\n\nShilha has been written with several different alphabets. Historically, the Arabic script has been dominant. Usage of the Latin script emerged in the late 19th century. More recently there has been an initiative to write Shilha in Tifinagh.\n\nTifinagh (or rather, Neo-Tifinagh) was introduced in the late 1990s and its use is now supported by the Moroccan authorities, in a standardised form promulgated by the Institut Royal de la Culture Amazighe (IRCAM, Rabat). Publications entirely printed in Tifinagh still remain rare, and only a tiny proportion of Shilha speakers, if any, are able to handle the new script with confidence. Its main role is emblematic, that of a cultural icon. As such, Tifinagh has entered the public space, with town signs now showing the name in Tifinagh as well as in Arabic and Latin script.\n\nMany Shilha texts from the oral tradition have been published since the 19th century, transcribed in Latin script. Early publications display a wide variety of transcription systems. Stumme (1899) and Destaing (1920, 1940) use an elaborate phonetic transcription, while Justinard (1914) and Laoust (1936) employ a transcription based on French orthographical conventions. A new standard was set by Aspinion (1953) who uses a simple but accurate, largely phonemic transcription with hyphenation.\n\nMost academic publications of recent decades use a fairly uniform transcription-orthography in Latin script (as used in this article). The most unusual feature of this orthography is the employment of the symbol ɛ (Greek epsilon) to represent (voiced epiglottal fricative), for example \"taɛmamt\" \"turban\". Except with \"ḥ\" (= IPA ), the subscript dot indicates pharyngealisation, for example \"aḍrḍur\" \"deaf person\". Geminated and long consonants are transcribed with doubled symbols, for example \"tassmi\" \"needle\", \"aggʷrn\" \"flour\". Word divisions are generally disjunctive, with clitics written as separate words (not hyphenated).\n\nTraditional Shilha manuscript texts are written in a conventionalized orthography in Maghribi Arabic script. This orthography has remained virtually unchanged since at least the end of the 16th century, and is still used today in circles of traditional Islamic scholars (\"ṭṭlba\"). The main features of the traditional orthography are the use of two extra letters (\"kāf\" with three dots for \"g\", and \"ṣād\" with three dots for \"ẓ\") and full vocalization (vowels written with \"fatḥah\", \"kasrah\" and \"ḍammah\"). Clitical elements are written connected to a noun or verb form (conjunctive spelling).\n\nSince the 1970s, a fair number of books in Shilha have been published inside Morocco, written in a newly devised, practical orthography in Arabic script. The main features of this orthography are the representation of vowels \"a, i, u\" by the letters \"alif, yāʼ, wāw\", and the non-use of vocalization signs other than \"shaddah\" (to indicate gemination of consonants) and \"ḍammah\" (to indicate labialization of velar and uvular consonants). The consonant \"g\" is written with گ, and \"ẓ\" is either written with زٜ (\"zāy\" with dot below) or not distinguished from \"z\". Word separations are mostly disjunctive.\n\nShilha has an extensive body of oral literature in a wide variety of genres (fairy tales, animal stories, taleb stories, poems, riddles, and tongue-twisters). A large number of oral texts and ethnographic texts on customs and traditions have been recorded and published since the end of the 19th century, mainly by European linguists (see ).\n\nShilha possesses a pre-colonial literary tradition. Numerous texts written in Arabic script are preserved in manuscripts dating from the past four centuries. The earliest datable text is a compendium of lectures on the \"religious sciences\" (\"lɛulum n ddin\") composed in metrical verses by Brahim u Ɛbdllah Aẓnag (Ibrāhīm ibn ʿAbd Allāh al-Ṣanhājī, died 1597). The best known writer in this tradition is Mḥmmd u Ɛli Awzal (Muḥammad ibn ʿAlī al-Hawzālī, died 1749), author of \"al-Ḥawḍ\" \"The Cistern\" (a handbook of Maliki law in verse), \"Baḥr al-Dumūʿ\" \"The Ocean of Tears\" (an adhortation, with a description of Judgment Day, in verse) and other texts.\n\nSince the 1970s, a modern literature in Shilha has been developing.\n\nThe first attempt at a grammatical description of Shilha is the work of the German linguist Hans Stumme (1864–1936), who in 1899 published his \"Handbuch des Schilḥischen von Tazerwalt\". Stumme's grammar remained the richest source of grammatical information on Shilha for half a century. A problem with the work is its use of an over-elaborate, phonetic transcription which, while designed to be precise, generally fails to provide a transparent representation of spoken forms. Stumme also published a collection of Shilha fairy tales (1895, re-edited in Stroomer 2002).\n\nThe next author to grapple with Shilha is Saïd Cid Kaoui (Saʿīd al-Sidqāwī, 1859-1910), a native speaker of Kabyle from Algeria. Having published a dictionary of Tuareg (1894), he then turned his attention to the Berber languages of Morocco. His \"Dictionnaire français-tachelh'it et tamazir't\" (1907) contains extensive vocabularies in both Shilha and Central Atlas Tamazight, in addition to some 20 pages of useful phrases. The work seems to have been put together in some haste and must be consulted with caution.\n\nOn the eve of the First World War there appeared a small, practical booklet composed by Captain (later Colonel) Léopold-Victor Justinard (1878–1959), entitled \"Manuel de berbère marocain (dialecte chleuh)\". It contains a short grammatical sketch, a collection of stories, poems and songs, and some interesting dialogues, all with translations. The work was written while the author was overseeing military operations in the region of Fès, shortly after the imposition of the French protectorate (1912). Justinard also wrote several works on the history of the Sous.\n\nEmile Laoust (1876–1952), prolific author of books and articles about Berber languages, in 1921 published his \"Cours de berbère marocain\" (2nd enlarged edition 1936), a teaching grammar with graded lessons and thematic vocabularies, some good ethnographic texts (without translations) and a wordlist.\n\nEdmond Destaing (1872–1940) greatly advanced our knowledge of the Shilha lexicon with his \"Etude sur la tachelḥît du Soûs. Vocabulaire français-berbère\" (1920) and his \"Textes berbères en parler des Chleuhs du Sous (Maroc)\" (1940, with copious lexical notes). Destaing also planned a grammar which was to complete the trilogy, but this was never published.\n\nLieutenant-interpreter (later Commander) Robert Aspinion (…?–...?) is the author of \"Apprenons le berbère: initiation aux dialectes chleuhs\" (1953), an informative though somewhat disorganized teaching grammar. Aspinion's simple but accurate transcriptions did away with earlier phonetic and French-based systems.\n\nThe first attempted description in English is \"Outline of the Structure of Shilha\" (1958) by American linguist Joseph Applegate (1925–2003). Based on work with native speakers from Ifni, the work is written in a dense, inaccessible style, without a single clearly presented paradigm. Transcriptions, apart from being unconventional, are unreliable throughout.\n\nThe only available accessible grammatical sketch written in a modern linguistic frame is \"Le Berbère\" (1988) by Lionel Galand (1920–2017), a French linguist and berberologist. The sketch is mainly based on the speech of the Ighchan (Iɣeccan) ethnic group of the Anti-Atlas, with comparative notes on Kabyle of Algeria and Tuareg of Niger.\n\nMore recent, book-length studies include Jouad (1995, on metrics), Dell and Elmedlaoui (2002 and 2008, on syllables and metrics), El Mountassir (2009, a teaching grammar), Roettger (2017, on stress and intonation) and the many text editions by Stroomer (see also ).\n\nStress and intonation in Shilha are the subject of a monograph by Roettger (2017), who used instrumental testing. He established the fact that Shilha does not have lexical stress (Roettger 2017:59), as noted earlier by Stumme (1899:14) and Galand (1988, 2.16).\n\nShilha has three phonemic vowels, with length not a distinctive feature. The vowels show a fairly wide range of allophones. The vowel /a/ is most often realized as [a] or [æ], and /u/ is pronounced without any noticeable rounding except when adjacent to \"w\". The presence of a pharyngealized consonant invites a more centralized realization of the vowel, as in \"kraḍ\" \"three\", \"kkuẓ\" \"four\", \"sḍis\" \"six\" (compare \"yan\" \"one\", \"sin\" \"two\", \"semmus\" \"five\").\n\nAdditional phonemic vowels occur sporadically in recent loan-words, for example /o/ as in \"rristora\" \"restaurant\" (from French).\n\nIn addition to the three phonemic vowels, there are non-phonemic transitional vowels, often collectively referred to as \"schwa\". Typically, a transitional vowel is audible following the onset of a vowelless syllable CC or CCC, if either of the flanking consonants, or both, are voiced, for example \"tigemmi\" \"house\", \"ameḥḍar\" \"schoolboy\". In the phonetic transcriptions of Stumme (1899) and Destaing (1920, 1940), many such transitional vowels are indicated.\n\nLater authors such as Aspinion (1953), use the symbol ⟨e⟩ to mark the place where a transitional vowel may be heard, irrespective of its quality, and they also write ⟨e⟩ where in reality no vowel, however short, is heard, for example ⟨akessab⟩ \"owner of livestock\", ⟨ar išetta⟩ \"he's eating\". The symbol ⟨e⟩, often referred to as \"schwa\", as used by Aspinion and others, thus becomes a purely graphical device employed to indicate that the preceding consonant is a syllable onset: [a.k⟨e⟩s.sab], [a.ri.š⟨e⟩t.ta]. As Galand has observed, the notation of \"schwa\" in fact results from \"habits which are alien to Shilha\". And, as conclusively shown by Ridouane (2008), transitional vowels or \"intrusive vocoids\" cannot even be accorded the status of epenthetic vowels. It is therefore preferable not to write transitional vowels or \"schwa\", and to transcribe the vowels in a strictly phonemic manner, as in Galand (1988) and all recent text editions.\n\nHiatus does not occur within a morpheme, i.e. a morpheme never contains a sequence of two vowels without an intervening consonant. If hiatus arises when a morpheme-final vowel and a morpheme-initial vowel come together in context, there are several strategies for dealing with it. The first of the two vowels may be elided or, alternatively, the semivowel \"y\" may be inserted to keep the vowels apart:\nLess commonly, vowels /i/ and /u/ may change into \"y\" and \"w\": /ddu-at/ \"go ye!\" (imperative plural masculine) is realized either as \"dduyat\" (with inserted \"y\") or as \"ddwat\".\n\nShilha has thirty-three phonemic consonants. Like other Berber languages and Arabic, it has both pharyngealized (\"emphatic\") and plain dental consonants. There is also a distinction between labialized and plain dorsal obstruents. Consonant gemination or length is contrastive.\n\nThe chart below represents the consonants in the standard Latin transcription. Where the transcription differs from the IPA orthography, the Latin transcription is bolded.\n\nAdditional phonemic consonants occur sporadically in recent loan-words, for example /bʷ/ as in \"bbʷa\" \"(my) father\" (from Moroccan Arabic), and /p/ as in \"laplaž\" \"beach\" (from French).\n\nThe semivowels /w/ and /y/ have vocalic allophones \"u\" and \"i\" between consonants (C_C) and between consonant and pause (C_# and #_C). Similarly, the high vowels /u/ and /i/ can have consonantal allophones \"w\" and \"y\" in order to avoid a hiatus. In most dialects, the semivowels are thus in complementary distribution with the high vowels, with the semivowels occurring as onset or coda, and the high vowels as nucleus in a syllable. This surface distribution of the semivowels and the high vowels has tended to obscure their status as four distinct phonemes, with some linguists denying phonemic status to /w/ and /y/.\n\nPositing four distinct phonemes is necessitated by the fact that semivowels and high vowels can occur in sequence, in lexically determined order, for example \"tazdwit\" \"bee\", \"tahruyt\" \"ewe\" (not *\"tazduyt, *tahrwit\"). In addition, semivowels /w/ and /y/, like other consonants, occur long, as in \"afawwu\" \"wrap\", \"tayyu\" \"camel's hump\". The assumption of four phonemes also results in a more efficient description of morphology.\n\nIn the examples below, /w/ and /y/ are transcribed phonemically in some citation forms, but always phonetically in context, for example \"ysti-\" \"the sisters of\", \"dars snat istis\" \"he has two sisters\".\n\nThere is a phonemic contrast between single and non-single (geminated or long) consonants:\nGemination and lengthening play a role in the morphology of nouns and verbs:\nAll consonants can in principle occur geminated or long, although phonemic \"xxʷ\" and \"ṛṛ\" do not seem to be attested. The uvular stops only occur geminated or long (\"qq, qqʷ\").\n\nFour consonants have each two corresponding geminate or long consonants, one phonetically identical and one different:\nIn the oldest layers of the morphology, \"ḍ\", \"w\", \"ɣ\", \"ɣʷ\" always have \"ṭṭ\", \"ggʷ\", \"qq\", \"qqʷ\" as geminated or long counterparts:\nWhether a non-single consonant is realized as geminated or as long depends on the syllabic context. A geminated consonant is a sequence of two identical consonants /CC/, metrically counting as two segments, and always separated by syllable division, as in \"tamdda\" [ta.md.da.] \"sparrowhawk\". A long consonant is a consonant followed by a chroneme /C:/, metrically counting as a single segment and belonging to one syllable, as in \"tugga\" [tu.g:a.] \"testimony\". When a morpheme contains a non-single consonant, it can be either geminated or long, depending on the context:\nIt is also possible for two identical consonants to occur in sequence, both being released separately and constituting the onset and nucleus of a vowelless syllable. Such sequences are transcribed with an intervening apostrophe:\n\nShilha syllable structure has been the subject of a detailed and highly technical discussion by phoneticians. The issue was whether Shilha does or does not have vowelless syllables. According to John Coleman, syllables which are vowelless on the phonemic level have \"schwa\" serving as vocalic nucleus on the phonetic level. According to Rachid Ridouan on the other hand, Shilha's apparently vowelless syllables are truly vowelless, with all phonemes, vowels as well as consonants, capable of serving as nucleus. The discussion is summed up in Ridouan (2008, with listing of relevant publications), where he conclusively demonstrates that a perfectly ordinary Shilha phrase such as \"tkkst stt\" \"you took it away\" indeed consists of three vowelless syllables [tk.ks.tst:.], each made up of voiceless consonants only, and with voiceless consonants (not \"schwa\") serving as nucleus. Many definitions of the syllable that have been put forward do not cover the syllables of Shilha.\n\nThe syllable structure of Shilha was first investigated by Dell and Elmedlaoui in a seminal article (1985). They describe how syllable boundaries can be established through what they call \"core syllabification\". This works by associating a nucleus with an onset, to form a core syllable CV or CC. Segments that are higher on the sonority scale have precedence over those lower on the scale in forming the nucleus in a core syllable, with vowels and semivowels highest on the scale, followed by liquids and nasals, voiced fricatives, voiceless fricatives, voiced stops and voiceless stops. When no more segments are available as onsets, the remaining single consonants are assigned as coda to the preceding core syllable, but if a remaining consonant is identical to the consonant that is the onset of the following syllable, it merges with it to become a long consonant. A morpheme boundary does not necessarily constitute a syllable boundary. Example:\nCore syllabification:\nCoda assignment:\nApplication of core syllabification produces the following Shilha syllable types:\n\nShilha syllable structure can be represented succinctly by the formula CX(C), in which C is any consonant (single/long), and X is any vowel or consonant (single) and with the restriction that in a syllable CXC the X, if it is a consonant, cannot be higher on the resonance scale than the syllable-final consonant, that is, syllables such as [tsk.] and [wrz.] are possible, but not *[tks.] and *[wzr.].\n\nExceptional syllables of the types X (vowel or single/long consonant) and V(C) (vowel plus single/long consonant) occur in utterance-initial position:\nAnother exceptional syllable type, described by Dell and Elmedlaoui (1985), occurs in utterance-final position, when a syllable of the type CC or CC: is \"annexed\" to a preceding syllable of the type CV or C:V, for example \"fssamt\" \"be silent!\" is [fs.samt.] not *[fs.sa.mt.].\n\nSince any syllable type may precede or follow any other type, and since any consonant can occur in syllable-initial or final position, there are no phonotactical restrictions on consonant sequences. This also means that the concept of the consonant cluster is not applicable in Shilha phonology, as any number of consonants may occur in sequence:\n\nThe metrics of traditional Shilha poems, as composed and recited by itinerant bards (\"inḍḍamn\"), was first described and analyzed by Hassan Jouad (thesis 1983, book 1995; see also Dell and Elmedlaoui 2008). The traditional metrical system confirms the existence of vowelless syllables in Shilha, and Jouad's data have been used by Dell and Elmedlaoui, and by Ridouane to underpin their conclusions.\n\nThe metrical system imposes the following restrictions:\nWithin these restrictions, the poet is free to devise his own metrical form. This can be recorded in a meaningless formula called \"talalayt\" which shows the number and the length of the syllables, as well as the place of the obligatory voiced consonant (Jouad lists hundreds of such formulae).\n\nThe system is illustrated here with a quatrain ascribed to the semi-legendary Shilha poet Sidi Ḥammu (fl. 18th century) and published by Amarir (1987:64):\n\nApplication of Dell and Elmedlaoui's core syllabification reveals a regular mosaic of syllables:\n\nThe poem is composed in a metre listed by Jouad (1995:283) and exemplified by the formula \"a láy, la li la láy, la li la lá, li lád\" (the \"d\" in the last syllable indicates the position of the compulsory voiced consonant).\n\nOn the basis of their morphology, three types of Shilha nouns can be distinguished, two indigenous types and one type of external origin:\nThe relevant morpho-syntactic categories are gender, number and state.\n\nInflected nouns are by far the most numerous type. These nouns can be easily recognised from their outward shape: they begin with a nominal prefix which has the form (t)V-:\nInflected nouns distinguish two genders, masculine and feminine; two numbers, singular and plural; and two states, conventionally referred to by their French names as \"état libre\" (free state) and \"état d'annexion\" (annexed state) and glossed as EL and EA. Gender and number are all explicitly marked, but historical and synchronic sound changes have in some cases resulted in the neutralization of the difference between EL and EA.\n\nThe nominal prefix has no semantic content. It is made up of one or both of two elements, a gender prefix and a vocalic prefix. Singular feminine nouns may also have a gender suffix. For example, the noun \"tazdwit\" \"bee\" has the feminine prefix \"t-\", the vocalic prefix \"a-\" and the feminine singular suffix \"-t\" added to the nominal stem \"zdwi\". While feminine inflected nouns always have the feminine prefix, masculine nouns do not have a gender prefix in the free state (EL); for example \"abaɣuɣ\" \"fox\" has no gender prefix, but only a vocalic prefix \"a-\" added to the nominal stem \"baɣuɣ\".\n\nGender is thus marked unambiguously, albeit asymmetrically. In just a handful of nouns, the morphological gender does not conform to the grammatical gender (and number): \"ulli\" \"sheep and goats\" is morphologically masculine singular, but takes feminine plural agreement; \"alln\" \"eyes\" is morphologically masculine plural, but takes feminine plural agreement; \"tarwa\" \"(someone's) children, offspring\" is morphologically feminine singular, but takes masculine plural agreement.\n\nThe annexed state (EA) is regularly formed by reducing the vocalic prefix to zero and, with masculine nouns, adding the masculine gender prefix \"w-\": \nWith some nouns, the original vocalic prefix has fused with a stem-initial vowel, to produce an inseparable (and irreducible) vowel:\nWith feminine nouns that have an inseparable vocalic prefix, the difference between EL and EA is thus neutralized.\n\nWhile most inflected nouns have a vocalic prefix \"a-\", some have \"i-\" (in some cases inseparable), and a few have \"u-\" (always inseparable). When a masculine noun has the vocalic prefix \"i-\" (separable or inseparable), the masculine gender prefix \"w-\" changes to \"y-\". The table below presents an overview (all examples are singular; plurals also distinguish EL and EA):\n\nThe EA is not predictable from the shape of the noun, compare:\nThe phonological rules on the realization of /w/ and /y/ apply to the EA as well. For example, the EA of \"a-mɣar\" \"chief\" is /w-mɣar/, realized as \"wmɣar\" after a vowel, \"umɣar\" after a consonant:\nInflected nouns show a great variety of plural formations, applying one or more of the following processes:\nThere are also irregular and suppletive plurals. The feminine singular suffix \"-t\" is naturally lost in the plural.\n\nIndependent from these processes, the separable vocalic prefix \"a-\" is always replaced with \"i-\". An inseparable vocalic prefix either remains unchanged, or changes as part of vowel change (but if the vocalic prefix is inseparable in the singular, it may be separable in the plural, as with \"aduz\" \"dune\", and vice versa, as with \"aydi\" \"dog\"; see table below).\n\nBelow is a sample of nouns, illustrating various plural formations.\n\nThe plural is generally not predictable from the shape of the singular, compare:\nMany nouns have more than one plural, for example \"a-žnwiy\" \"knife\", plural \"i-žnway\" (vowel change) or \"i-žnwiy-n\" (suffixation).\n\nMany Shilha place-names are morphologically inflected nouns:\nThe same is the case with Shilha ethnic names:\nAmong the inflected nouns are found many incorporated loans. Examples include (see also ):\n\nThis is the least common type, which also includes some loans. Examples:\n\nIt is probable that all uninflected nouns were originally masculine. The few that now take feminine agreement contain elements that have been reanalyzed as marking feminine gender, for example \"ttždmnni\" \"type of spider\" (initial \"t\" seen as feminine prefix), \"hlima\" \"bat\" (not an Arabic loan-word, but final \"a\" analyzed as the Arabic feminine ending).\n\nMany uninflected nouns are collectives or non-count nouns which do not have a separate plural form. Those that have a plural make it by preposing the pluralizer \"id\", for example \"id lagar\" \"stations\".\n\nThe uninflected noun \"mddn\" or \"middn\" \"people, humans\" is morphologically masculine singular but takes masculine plural agreement.\n\nNames of people and foreign place-names can be seen as a subtype of uninflected nouns, for example \"Musa\" (man's name), \"Muna\" (woman's name), \"Fas\" \"Fès\", \"Brdqqiz\" \"Portugal\". Gender is not transparently marked on these names, but those referring to humans take gender agreement according to the natural sex of the referent (male/masculine, female/feminine).\n\nThese are nouns of Arabic origin (including loans from French and Spanish through Arabic) which have largely retained their Arabic morphology. They distinguish two genders (not always unambiguously marked) and two numbers (explicitly marked). A notable feature of these nouns is that they are borrowed with the Arabic definite article, which is semantically neutralized in Shilha:\nThe Arabic feminine ending \"-a\" is often replaced with the Shilha feminine singular suffix \" t\":\nArabic loans usually retain their gender in Shilha. The exception are Arabic masculine nouns which end in \"t\"; these change their gender to feminine in Shilha, with the final \"t\" reanalyzed as the Shilha feminine singular suffix \"-t\":\nArabic plurals are usually borrowed with the singulars. If the borrowed plural is not explicitly marked for gender (according to Arabic morphology) it has the same gender as the singular:\nLoan-words whose singular is masculine may have a plural which is feminine, and marked as such (according to Arabic morphology), for example \"lɛlam\" \"flag\" (masculine), plural \"lɛlum-at\" (feminine).\n\nThe annexed state (EA) of an inflected noun is used in a number of clearly defined syntactical contexts:\nOutside these contexts, the EL is used. Uninflected nouns and unincorporated loans, which do not distinguish state, remain unchanged in these contexts.\n\nThe formation of feminine nouns from masculine nouns is a productive process. A feminine noun is formed by adding both the feminine nominal prefix \"t-\" (and, if necessary, a vocalic prefix), and the feminine singular suffix \"-t\" to a masculine noun. The semantic value of the feminine derivation is variable.\n\nFor many nouns referring to male and female humans or animals (mainly larger mammals), matching masculine and feminine forms exist with the same nominal stem, reflecting the sex of the referent:\nIn a few cases there are suppletive forms:\nFeminine nouns derived from masculine nouns with inanimate reference have diminutive meaning:\nConversely, a masculine noun derived from a feminine noun has augmentative meaning:\nFeminine nouns derived from masculine collective nouns have singulative meaning:\nFemine derivations are also used as names of languages, professions and activities:\nThere is an overlap here with feminine nouns denoting females:\n\nThere are three deictic clitics which can follow a noun: proximal \"a-d\" \"this, these\", distal \"a-nn\" \"that, those\" (compare ) and anaphoric \"lli\" \"the aforementioned\":\n\nThere are three basic sets of personal pronouns:\nIn addition, there are two derived sets which contain the suffixed pronouns (except in 1st singular):\nGender is consistently marked on 2nd singular, and on 2nd and 3rd plural. Gender is not consistently marked on 3rd singular and 1st plural. Gender is never marked on 1st singular.\n\nThe independent (\"overt\") pronouns are used to topicalize the subject or the object.\nThey are also used with certain pseudo-prepositions such as \"zund\" \"like\", \"abla\" \"except\":\n\nThe direct object clitics are used with transitive verbs:\nThe 3rd singular feminine variant \"stt\" is used after a dental stop, compare:\nThe direct object clitics are also used to indicate the \"subject\" with pseudo-verbs, and with the presentative particle \"ha\" \"here is, \"voici\"\":\nThe pronominal suffixes are used with prepositions to indicate the object (see ), and with a closed set of necessarily possessed kinship terms to indicate possession (see ). The plural forms add an infix \"-t-\" before the suffix with kinship terms, for example \"baba-t-nɣ\" \"our father\" (never *\"baba-nɣ\"); this infix also occurs with some prepositions as a free or dialectal variant of the form without the \"-t-\":\nThe indirect object clitics convey both benefactive and detrimental meaning:\nThe possessive complements follow the noun (see ).\n\nPrepositions can have up to three different forms, depending on the context in which they are used:\nThe form before nouns and demonstrative pronouns and the independent form are identical for most prepositions, the exception being the dative preposition \"i\" (independent \"mi, mu\").\n\nMost prepositions require a following inflected noun to be in the annexed state (EA) (see ). Exceptions are \"ar\" \"until\", \"s\" \"toward\" (in some modern dialects, and in premodern texts) and prepositions borrowed from Arabic (not in the table) such as \"bɛd\" \"after\" and \"qbl\" \"before\".\n\nThe instrumental and allative prepositions \"s\" \"by means of\" (with EA) and \"s\" \"toward\" (with EL) were still consistently kept apart in premodern manuscript texts. In most modern dialects they have been amalgamated, with both now requiring the EA, and with the pre-pronominal forms each occurring with both meanings: \"sr-s\" \"toward it\" (now also \"with it\"), \"is-s\" \"with it\" (now also \"toward it\").\n\nThe use of the different forms is illustrated here with the preposition \"ɣ\" \"in\":\nTwo prepositions can be combined:\n\nSpatial relations are also expressed with phrases of the type \"on top of\":\nThe preposition \"gi(g)-\" \"in\" with pronominal suffixes, with all its free and dialectal variants, is presented below. The other prepositions display much less variety.\n\nThe inherited cardinal numeral system consists of ten numerals (still in active use) and three numeral nouns (now obsolete) for \"a tensome\", \"a hundred\" and \"a thousand\". There is also an indefinite numeral meaning \"several, many\" or \"how many?\" which morphologically and syntactically patterns with the numerals 1 to 10. For numbers of 20 and over, Arabic numerals are commonly used.\n\nThese are listed below. The formation of feminine \"one\" and \"two\" is irregular.\n\nThe numerals 1 to 10 are constructed with nouns (inflected nouns in the EA), the gender of the numeral agreeing with that of the noun:\nThe same obtains with the indefinite numeral:\nNumerals \"yan, yat\" \"one\" also serve as indefinite article, for example \"yan urumiy\" \"one Westerner, a Westerner\", and they are used independently with the meaning \"anyone\" (\"yan\"), \"anything\" (\"yat\"):\nThe final \"n\" of masculine \"yan\" \"one\" and \"sin\" \"two\" is often assimilated or fused to a following \"w\", \"y\" or \"l\":\n\nThe teens are made by connecting the numerals 1 to 9 to the numeral 10 with the preposition \"d\" \"with\". In the premodern language, both numerals took the gender of the counted noun, with the following noun in the plural (EA):\nIn the modern language, fused forms have developed in which the first numeral is always masculine, while the following noun is in the singular, and connected with the preposition \"n\" \"of\":\n\nThere are three inherited nouns to denote \"a tensome\", \"a hundred\" and \"a thousand\". These now seem to be obsolete, but they are well attested in the premodern manuscripts. Morphologically, they are ordinary inflected nouns.\n\nThe tens, hundreds and thousand were formed by combining the numerals 1 to 10 with the numeral nouns:\nThe numeral nouns are connected with the preposition \"n\" \"of\" to a noun, which is most often in the singular:\nIn the modern language the Arabic tens are used, which have developed a separate feminine form:\nThe numerals between the tens are most frequently made with the Arabic numerals 1 to 10:\nThe Arabic hundreds and thousands are used in the modern language, taking the places of the original numeral nouns while the original syntax is maintained:\nThere is also a vigesimal system built on the Arabic numeral \"ɛšrin\" \"twenty, score\", for example \"sin id ɛšrint n tfunast\" (two PL score of EA-cow) \"forty cows\".\n\n\"First\" and \"last\" are usually expressed with relative forms of the verbs \"be first\" and \"be last\":\nThere are also agent nouns derived from these verbs which are apposed to a noun or used independently:\n\nThe other ordinals are formed by prefixing masc. \"wis-\", fem. \"tis-\" to a cardinal numeral, which is then constructed with a plural noun in the usual manner:\nThe ordinal prefixes is also used with Arabic numerals and with the indefinite numeral:\n\nBecause four of the numerals 1 to 10 begin with \"s\", the geminated \"ss\" that results from the prefixation of \"wis-, tis-\" (as in \"wissin\", \"wissmmus\", etc.) is often generalized to the other numerals: \"wissin, wisskraḍ, wisskkuẓ\", etc.\n\nA Shilha verb form is basically a combination of a person-number-gender (PNG) affix and a mood-aspect-negation (MAN) stem.\n\nThe workings of this system are illustrated here with the full conjugation of the verb \"fk\" \"to give\". The Perfective negative goes with the negation \"wr\" \"not\". The Imperfective goes with the preverbal particle \"ar\" (except usually the imperative, and the relative forms).\n\nThe verb \"give\" has the full complement of four different MAN stems:\n\nThere are two basic sets of PNG affixes, one set marking the subject of ordinary verb forms, and another set marking the subject of imperatives.\n\nTwo suffixes (singular \"-n\", plural \"-in\") are added to the 3rd singular and masculine 3rd plural masculine verb forms respectively to make relative forms (also known as \"participles\"), as in \"i-fka-n\" \"who gives\", \"fka-n-in\" \"who give\".\n\nA few verbs have just one MAN stem. The majority of verbs have two, three or four different MAN stems. The Aorist stem serves as the citation form of a verb. The list below offers an overview of MAN stem paradigms. Around 15 paradigms of non-derived verbs can be recognized, based on the formation of the Perfective and the Perfective negative. Further subdivisions could be made on the basis of the formations of the Imperfective. All sections in the list contain a selection of verbs, except sections 12, 14, and 15, which contain a full listing.\n\nThe table below is adapted from Kossmann (2012:40, table 2.12 Uses of MAN stems in Figuig Berber).\n\nShilha has around twenty verbs which express basic adjectival meanings. These \"stative\" verbs are still recognizable as a separate group on the basis of their MAN stem paradigms. In earlier stages of the language, they had their own separate set of PNG markers, which are sporadically found in premodern manuscripts:\nIn the modern language, these verbs take the regular PNG markers. Only the original singular relative form without prefix \"y-\" may still be encountered, for example \"adrar mqqur-n\" or \"adrar i-mqqur-n\" (mountain which.is.big) \"big mountain\". Stative verbs do not have a separate Perfective negative form. The table shows a selection of stative verbs.\n\nThere are two deictic clitics which are used with verbs to indicate movement toward or away from the point of reference: centripetal \"d\" \"hither\" and centrifugal \"nn\" \"thither\":\n\nThe use of these clitics is compulsory (idiomatic) with certain verbs. For example, the verb \"come\" always goes with the centripetal particle, and \"find\" with the centrifugal clitic:\n\nWhen the verbal deictic clitics occur after an object pronoun, they change to \"id\" and \"inn\":\n\nA possessive construction within a noun phrase is most frequently expressed as Possessee \"n\" Possessor. The preposition \"n\" \"of\" requires a following inflected noun to be in the annexed state. This kind of possessive construction covers a wide range of relationships, including both alienable and inalienable possession, and most of them not involving actual ownership:\nMany such possessive constructions are compounds, whose meaning cannot be deduced from the ordinary meaning of the nouns:\nThe possessor can itself be a possessee in a following possessive construction:\nAs a rule, the preposition \"n\" assimilates to, or fuses with, a following \"w\", \"y\", \"l\" or \"m\":\n\nThe possessor can also be expressed with a pronominal possessive complement. This consists of a pronominal suffix added to the preposition, which then takes the shape \"nn-\" (see ). The form of the 1st singular possessive complement is anomalous: \"nw\" after a vowel, and \"inw\" after a consonant (or, in some dialects, \"niw\"):\n\nThere are two ways to express possession within a clause. The most common way is to use the \"exist with\" construction:\nThe verb \"exist\" is usually omitted, leaving a verbless clause:\nAlternatively, the verb \"ṭṭf, ṭṭaf\" \"hold, possess\" can be used:\nIn addition, there is the verb \"ili\" \"possess\", whose use is restricted to (inalienable) part-hole relationships and kinship relationships:\nIn al its usages \"ili\" can be replaced with \"ṭṭaf\" or the \"exist with\" construction, but not the other way around:\n\nThese are a subtype of uninflected nouns. As with proper names, gender is not transparently marked on possessed nouns, which take gender agreement according to the natural sex of the referent. Plurals are either suppletive or made with the preposed pluralizer \"id\". Most possessed nouns are consanguinal kinship terms which require a possessive suffix (the table contains a selection).\n\nThese kinship terms cannot occur without pronominal suffix. Example:\n\nIf these nouns are part of an NP-internal possessive construction, possession must be indicated twice:\nThe suffix must also added when possession is expressed in a clause:\nSome kinship terms are not possessed nouns but inflected nouns which take possessive complements (see examples above).\n\nAnother group of possessed nouns require a following noun phrase, occurring only in an NP-internal possessive phrase. A following inflected noun must be in the EA.\n\nThese four possessed nouns occur as first element in compound kinship terms (see above; \"w\" then becomes \"gʷ\" in \"gʷ-ma-\" \"the brother of\"). They also serve to indicate descent, origin and ethnicity:\nWhen \"w\" is followed by another (phonemic) \"w\" the result is \"ggʷ\":\n\"Ayt\" occurs in many Shilha ethnonyms:\n\nThe proprietive elements masc. \"bu\" \"he with, he of\" and fem. \"mm\" \"she with, she of\" are borrowed from Arabic (original meaning \"father of\", \"mother of\"). They are used as versatile formative elements to make nicknames, and require a following inflected noun to be in the annexed state. The plural is formed with the pluralizer \"id\":\nIn many cases, \"bu\" fuses with a following nominal prefix:\nThe feminine \"mm\" is encountered less frequently:\n\nThe privative elements masc. \"war\" \"he without\" and fem. \"tar\" \"she without\" are made up of a gender prefix (masculine \"w-\", feminine \"t-\") and an element \"ar\" which is probably related to the negation \"wr\" \"not\". They do not require the annexed state, and should probably be translated as \"who does not have\", with the following noun phrase as object:\n\nShilha retains a large native (non-borrowed) lexicon, supplemented by borrowings from the languages with which its speakers came into contact.\n\nThe main available lexicographical sources for the modern language are: Stumme 1899 (contains Shilha–German wordlist, pp. 155–246) ; Destaing 1920 (French–Shilha); Cid Kaoui 1907 (French-Shilha, not entirely reliable); Jordan 1934 (Shilha–French, extracted from Laoust 1921); Destaing 1940 (a collection of texts with copious lexicographical notes and a Shilha index); Ibáñez 1954 (Spanish–Shilha); Boumalk and Bounfour 2001 (Shilha-French). An indigenous source for the premodern language is in van den Boogert (1998). These sources will be made accessible, with much additional data, in Stroomer's \"Dictionnaire tachelhit–français\" (forthcoming). No reliable wordlist in Shilha and English is available in print.\n\nThe earliest identifiable loan is \"tiyni\" \"dates\" (cf. Tamasheq \"tehäyne\", Ghadamès \"aβēna\"), from Egyptian-Coptic (cf. Coptic \"bnne, beni, benni\" \"date palm-tree; dates\").\n\nPhoenician-Punic, a Northwest-Semitic language, was spoken in parts of North Africa, especially in what is now Tunisia, up to the 5th century CE. Punic loans are found in several Berber languages, among them Shilha. Examples (etymons are cited from Hebrew, another Northwest-Semitic language which is closely related to Phoenician-Punic, but much better attested):\nThe verb \"lmd\" \"to learn\" is probably also a Punic loan (cf. Hebrew \"lāmad\").\n\nThe noun \"uday\" \"Jew\" probably came to the Berber languages from the Aramaic language spoken by early Jewish immigrants in North Africa (cf. Aramaic-Syriac \"yūdāy-ā\" vs. Hebrew \"yhûdî\", Arabic \"yahūdī\"; the Aramaic noun is also the source of Greek \"ἰουδαῖος\", Latin \"iūdaeus\").\n\nIt has been noted that the numerals 5 to 9 seem to be Semitic loans. The corresponding numerals in Phoenician-Punic and in Arabic, the historically most likely origin, do not seem to be the source. A comparison:\n\nA variety of Latin/Romance was spoken in parts of northern Morocco right up to the advent of Islam. Loans from Latin and early Romance include:\nLater Romance loans can be distinguished by the fact that original \"s\" becomes \"š\" instead of \"s\" as in the earlier loans. Presumably, the later loans originated from Ibero-Romance, with which Berber speakers came into contact in al-Andalus (Islamic Spain). Examples include:\nAnother probable loan from a Romance language is \"tabaɣa\" \"tobacco\".\n\nAlso borrowed from Romance are the names of the months of the Julian calendar:\n\nMost Spanish and French nouns borrowed since the colonial era came via Arabic, as shown by the presence of the Arabic definite article:\nThe noun \"atay\" [atæj] \"tea\" is a unique loan, from Dutch \"thee\" [tej].\n\nBy far the most numerous group of loans is from Arabic. As with most languages spoken in the Islamic cultural sphere, Shilha has adopted many hundreds of words from Arabic, which now permeat the entire lexicon (except body parts and other basic vocabulary). Loans include verbs and nouns as well as numerals, prepositions, conjunctions and adverbs. Borrowed verbs are completely absorbed into the Shilha verbal system. Many of the borrowed nouns were not incorporated into the nominal morphological system, thus constituting a subgroup of their own (see above, ).\n\nAlthough some nouns denoting typically Islamic concepts such as \"timzgida\" \"mosque\", \"taẓallit\" \"ritual prayer\", \"uẓum\" \"fasting\", which certainly belong to the very oldest layer of Arabic loans, are incorporated into Shilha morphology, but that many equally central Islamic concepts are expressed with unincorporated nouns (for example \"lislam\" \"Islam\", \"lḥajj\" \"pilgrimage to Mecca\", \"zzka\" \"alms tax\" ). It is possible that during the early stages of islamization such concepts were expressed with native vocabulary or with earlier, non-Arabic loans. One such term which has survived into the modern era is \"tafaska\" \"ewe for slaughter on the (Islamic) Feast of Immolation\", from \"pascha\", the Latinized name of the Jewish festival of Passover (\"Pesaḥ\") or, more specifically, of the paschal lamb (\"qorbān Pesaḥ\") which is sacrificed during the festival. Another example is \"ibkkaḍan\" \"sins\", obsolete in the modern language, but attested in a premodern manuscript text, whose singular \"abkkaḍu\" is borrowed from Romance (cf. Spanish \"pecado\", Latin \"peccātum\"; modern Shilha uses \"ddnub\" \"sins\", from Arabic).\n\nDestaing mentions a secret language (\"argot\") called \"inman\" or \"tadubirt\" which is spoken by \"some people of Sous, in particular the descendants of Sidi Ḥmad u Musa.\" He quotes an example: \"is kn tusat inman?\" \"do you speak the secret language?\"\n\nTwo secret languages used by Shilha women are described by Lahrouchi and Ségéral (2009). They are called \"tagnawt\" (cf. Shilha \"agnaw\" \"deaf-mute person\") and \"taɛžmiyt\" (cf. Moroccan Arabic \"ɛəžmiya\" \"foreign language\") or \"taqqžmiyt\". They employ various processes, such as reduplication, to disguise the ordinary language.\n\n(1) The story of the man who sold honey in the souk. (2) A man had filled several leather bags of honey in the souk. (3) There came another man to him, who wanted to buy honey. He said: \"At how much do you sell that honey?\" (4) The seller said to him: \"Just taste it, and if it pleases you, you can make a bid.\" (5) The man took a bag, poured out some, tasted the honey and gave it back to its owner. He said: \"Hold it, until I have tried another one\". (6) [The seller] held it in his hand, while the buyer took another bag, poured out some, tasted the honey and gave it back to its owner. (7) He held it in his other hand; then the buyer took one bag of honey and ran away. The honey-seller could not do anything because of the bags he held. (8) He started calling out to people to liberate him.\n\n(1) Lqqiṣt n yan urgaz lli yzznzan tammnt ɣ ssuqq. (2) Yan urgaz iɛmmr mnnaw yilmawn n tammnt ɣ ssuqq. (3) Yašk nn dars yan urgaz, ira ad dars isɣ tammnt. Inna y as: \"Mnšk at tzznzt tammnt ann?\" (4) Inna y as: \"Mḍi tt, iɣ ak tɛžb ar gis tsawalt.\" (5) Yasy urgaz ann yan yilm, ifsi t, imḍi tammnt, ifk t i bab nns, inna as: \"Amẓ, ar kiɣ gussɣ wayyaḍ.\" (6) Yamẓ t s ufus nns, yasi daɣ umsaɣ lli wayyaḍ, ifsi t, imḍi tammnt, ifk t daɣ i bab nns. (7) Yamẓ t s ufus nns yaḍnin, yasy umsaɣ yan yilm n tammnt, irur. Iggammi bu tammnt mad a yskar i yilmawn lli yumẓ. (8) Ar yaqqra y mddn at t fukkun.\n\n(1) story of a man who is.selling honey in market (2) a man he.filled several leather.bags of honey in market (3) he.came thither with.him a man he.wanted to with.him he.buys honey he.said to.him how.much is.it.that you.sell honey that (4) he.said to.him taste it if to.you it.pleased about.it you.can.talk (5) he.picked.up man that one leather.bag he.poured.out it he.tasted honey he.gave it to owner of.it he.said to.him hold until when I.tasted another.one (6) he.held it with hand of.him he.picked.up also buyer the.aforementioned another.one he.poured.out it he.tasted honey he.gave it also to owner of.it (7) he.held it with hand of.him other he.picked.up buyer one leather.bag of honey he.fled he.was.incapable.of he.of honey what.it.is.that he.can.do to leather.bags which he.held (8) he.starts.calling to people that him they.liberate\n\n(1) lqqiṣ-t = feminine noun, \"story\" (Arabic loan) | n = preposition, \"of\" | ya-n = masculine numeral, \"one, a\" | u-rgaz = masculine noun, annexed state, \"man\" | lli = relative pronoun, \"who\" (Arabic loan) | y-zz-nza-n = singular relative verb form, \"who is selling\" (causative < nz(i) \"be sold\") | t-ammn-t = feminine noun, free state, \"honey\" | ɣ = preposition, \"in\" | ssuqq = masculine noun, \"market\" (Arabic loan) (2) ya-n = masculine numeral, \"one, a\" | u-rgaz = masculine noun, annexed state, \"man\" | i-ɛmmr = 3sg.m. perfective, \"he filled\" (Arabic loan) | mnnaw = masculine indefinite numeral, \"several, many\" | y-ilmaw-n = masculine plural noun, annexed state, \"skins, leather bags\" | n = preposition, \"of\" | t-ammn-t = feminine noun, annexed state, \"honey\" | ɣ = preposition, \"in\" | ssuqq = masculine noun, \"market\" (Arabic loan) (3) y-ašk = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he came\" | nn = directional particle, centripetal, \"thither\" | dar-s = preposition + 3sg. suffix, \"with him\" | ya-n = masculine numeral, \"one, a\" | u-rgaz = masculine noun, annexed state, \"man\" | i-ra = 3sg.m. perfective, \"he wanted\" | ad = prospective preverbal particle | dar-s = preposition + 3sg. suffix, \"with him\" | i-sɣ = 3sg.m. aorist, \"he buys\" | t-ammn-t = feminine noun, free state, \"honey\" | i-nna = 3sg.m. perfective, \"he said\" | y = inserted consonant (hiatus breaker) | a-s = 3sg. indirect object clitic, \"to him\" | mnšk = question word, \"how much?\" | at /ad/ = \"is-it-that\" | t-zz-nz-t = 2sg. aorist, \"you sell\" (causative < nz \"be sold\") | t-ammn-t, feminine noun, free state, \"honey\" | a-nn = demonstrative particle, distal, \"that\" (4) i-nna = 3sg.m. perfective, \"he said\" | y = inserted consonant (hiatus breaker) | a-s = 3sg. indirect object clitic, \"to him\" | mḍi = imperative singular, \"taste!\" | tt = 3sg.f. object clitic, \"it\" | iɣ = conjunction, \"if\" | a-k = 2sg.m. indirect object clitic, \"to you\" | t-ɛžb = 3sg.f. perfective, \"it pleased\" (Arabic loan) | ar = imperfective preverbal | gi-s = preposition + 3sg. suffix, \"in it, about it\" | t-sawal-t = 2sg. imperfective, \"you talk, you can talk\" (5) y-asy = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he picked up\" | u-rgaz = masculine noun, annexed state, \"man\" | a-nn = demonstrative particle, distal, \"that\" | ya-n = masculine numeral, \"one, a\" | y-ilm = masculine noun, annexed state, \"skin, leather bag\" | i-fsi = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he poured out\" | t = 3sg.m. object clitic, \"it\" | i-mḍi = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he tasted\" | t-ammn-t = feminine noun, free state, \"honey\" | i-fk = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he gave\" | t = 3sg.m. object clitic, \"it\" | i = preposition, \"to\" | bab = masculine noun, \"owner\" | nn-s = 3sg. possessive complement, \"of it\" | i-nna = 3sg.m. perfective, \"he said\" | a-s = 3sg. indirect object clitic, \"to him\" | amẓ = imperative singular, \"hold!\" | ar = preposition, \"until\" | kiɣ = conjunction, \"when\" | guss-ɣ = 1sg. perfective, \"I tasted\" | wayyaḍ = masculine singular, \"another one\" (6) y-amẓ = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he held\" | t = 3sg.m. object clitic, \"it\" | s = preposition, \"with\" | u-fus = masculine noun, annexed state, \"hand\" | nn-s = 3sg. possessive complement, \"of him\" | y-asi = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he picked up\" | daɣ = adverb, \"also\" | u-m-saɣ = masculine noun, annexed state, \"buyer\" (agent noun < sɣ \"buy\") | lli = demonstrative particle, anaphoric, \"the aforementioned\" | wayyaḍ = masculine singular, \"another one\" | i-fsi = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he poured out\" | t = 3sg.m. object clitic, \"it\" | i-mḍi = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he tasted\" | t-ammn-t = feminine noun, free state, \"honey\" | i-fk = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he gave\" | t = 3sg.m. object clitic, \"it\" | daɣ = adverb, \"also\" | i = preposition, \"to\" | bab = masculine noun, \"owner\" | nn-s = 3sg. possessive complement, \"of it\" (7) y-amẓ = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he held\" | t = 3sg.m. object clitic, \"it\" | s = preposition, \"with\" | u-fus = masculine noun, annexed state, \"hand\" | nn-s = 3sg. possessive complement, \"of him\" | yaḍnin = \"other\" | y-asy = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he picked up\" | u-m-saɣ = masculine agent noun, annexed state, \"buyer\" | ya-n = masculine numeral, \"one, a\" | y-ilm = masculine noun, annexed state, \"skin, leather bag\" | n = preposition, \"of\" | tammnt = feminine noun, annex state, \"honey\" | i-rur = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he fled\" | i-ggammi = 3sg.m. aorist (consecutive), \"he was incapable of\" | bu = masculine proprietive element, \"he of\" (Arabic loan) | t-ammn-t = feminine noun, annexed state, \"honey\" | mad /ma + ad/ = \"what it-is-that\" | a = imperfective preverbal particle | y-skar = 3sg.m. imperfective, \"he is doing, he can do\" | i = preposition, \"to\" | y-ilmaw-n = masculine plural noun, annexed state, \"skins, leather bags\" | lli = relative pronoun, \"which\" (Arabic loan) | y-umẓ = 3sg.m. perfective, \"he held\" (8) ar = imperfective preverbal | y-aqqra = 3sg.m. \"he is calling, he starts calling\" | y /i/ = preposition, \"to\" | mddn = masculine plural noun, \"people\" | at /ad/ = prospective preverbal particle | t = 3sg.m. object clitic, \"him\" | fukku-n = 3pl.m. aorist, \"they liberate\" (Arabic loan).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17987475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17987475", "title": "Sichuan schools corruption scandal", "text": "Sichuan schools corruption scandal\n\nAfter the May 12, 2008, earthquake in the Chinese province of Sichuan, there was a series of allegations of corruption against officials involved in the construction of schools in regions affected by the quake. It gained momentum in May and June 2008, and the allegations culminated in protests from grieving parents of children who died in the earthquake as a result of the collapse of various schools in the quake zone.\n\nThe scandal eventually became a focal point of reporting on the earthquake rescue efforts, with Chinese civil engineers, bloggers, activists, and foreign media bringing attention to the allegations. Various discussions reports alleged that local government officials and construction companies were negligent in the construction of schools, and that they ignored civil engineering standards, saved materials and took shortcuts while pocketing the difference.\n\nDespite initial openness to independent reporting and foreign media, the Chinese government attempted to downplay the issue and suppress criticism. Additionally, local government attempted to entice grieving parents into monetary compensation in exchange for their silence. While Chinese authorities were initially praised by international media for its rapid and effective response to the earthquake, the school construction scandal severely undermined the initial positive reactions, particularly among Western media. Postings about the scandal flooded Chinese online portals and discussion boards, and popularized the phrase \"tofu-dreg schoolhouses\" (Chinese:豆腐渣校舍). The internet activism resulted in a pledge by the federal government to conduct investigations into the allegations, but it was ostensibly not followed up with any substantial action.\n\nOver 7,000 schoolrooms collapsed in the course of the earthquake, mostly in rural areas, reportedly leading to the death of nearly 5,000 students (though some parents believe the real figure is twice that officially cited) and the injury of over 15,000 students. The total death toll of the quake was around 70,000 people, with some 375,000 injuries. A month after the quake, nearly 20,000 people remained missing, while five million were rendered homeless.\n\nThe disproportionate number of school collapses led to open discussions that they were not built to adequate standards. The grieving parents and critical journalists pointed out that \"hundreds of schools collapsed instantly — even newly constructed ones — while older buildings nearby were often unscathed.\" This, in turn, has led to allegations of corruption on the part of Education Ministry officials and contractors who were said to be complicit in constructing the school buildings dangerously below government-mandated standards, while pocketing the remaining surplus. On May 26, Wang Xuming, a spokesman for the Education Ministry, stated that the ministry would complete a reassessment of school buildings in quake zones and that those who had cut corners on school construction would be “severely punished.” Some parents protested what they argued, one month after the event, amounts to government inaction.\n\nThe earthquake has caused collapse of more than 6.5 million buildings and damaged some 23 million more. Four factors determine the damage to a particular building, according to geologist Liu Jie (), Director of Earthquake Prediction Department of (China's) Center for Seismic Monitoring Station Network under the China Earthquake Administration (CEA), who arrived in quake zone the same day of the main quake. Besides the quake's magnitude and intensity in the area, the location of the building played an important role. In some towns that Liu surveyed, all buildings sitting on the earthquake fault line collapsed, while buildings tens of meters away did not. Building structure was also a factor. Buildings with larger spans tend to collapse more easily. The fourth factor was the quality of the building. If a building's designed fortification intensity is above the quake's intensity at the location, the collapse of a building can be definitively attributed to its engineering quality, Liu explained. On the other hand, if the quake's intensity exceeds the designated code, it would be hard to determine whether the earthquake engineering quality is the deciding factor of its collapse.\n\nDespite these factors, some Chinese civil engineers expressed a different view and joined the public in criticizing the initial official attribution of school collapses. According to \"Caijing\", \"earthquake intensity exceeding the designed resistance does not mean that buildings built to quality specifications will definitely collapse. Even if they collapse, there are different ways by which they collapse and variation within building design. Such collapses should not necessarily lead to heavy human casualties.\"\n\nA post-quake survey indicated the intensity near the epicenter of the earthquake to be category XI-intensity, far exceeding the seismic fortification intensity of VII-intensity assigned to Wenchuan, Sichuan in GB 500011-2001, a national standard for seismic design published in 2001. Beichuan, center of another XI-intensity area, had been zoned as VI-intensity. (Zoning for Wenchuan, Beichuan and several other cities in Sichuan were subsequently revised to VIII liedu, the second highest rating in the standard.)\n\nGB50223-2004, the national standard for classification of civil seismic fortification before the earthquake, specified Class B for schools exceeding 600 in capacity, kindergartens and child care centers exceeding 200, meaning they must be built to at least 1 liedu higher than the zoned seismic fortification intensity of the area. However, it contained a provision to allow low-rise (three stories and lower) schools to be built to meet the area's fortification intensity (Class C). (The government rushed a revision to the standard after the Wenchuan earthquake. GB 50223-2008 has removed both the provision regarding capacity and the one regarding height to require all schools to meet Class B.)\n\nIn perspective, Yingxiu Primary School had a collapsed four-story building built in 1999, where 3/4 of the 473 students were dead, whereas Xuankou Middle School had several collapsed buildings from 3 to 4 stories built in 2006, where more than 80% of the 1,200+ students stayed alive.Both schools are located in the town of Yingxiu, Wenchuan nearly at the epicenter of the main quake. Beichuan Middle School in Beichuan, where 80% of buildings collapsed, had two collapsed five-story buildings completed in 1998 that were once named \"high quality buildings,\" killing nearly half of its 2,000+ students.\nFollowing GB50223-2004, Xuankou Middle School should have been built to resist VII + I in seismic intensity. Beichuan Middle School and Yingxiu Primary School could have passed with fortification intensity of VII liedu had they been built after 2004; but because they were built before the publication of even GB 500011-2001, they could be using older standards or none at all.\n\nIn justifying the relatively long time CEA used to produce the intensity diagram of the Wenchuan earthquake, Vice President of International Association for Earthquake Engineering XIE Lili () who was a member of the survey team indicated that \"some (local government) may want to make more serious estimations of earthquake damage, so they could obtain more compensation,\"\nhinting attempts to interfere with the survey. The same news article quoted \"persons in the know\" who suggested that another motivation for attempted interference would be to boost intensity in order to evade responsibility for not following seismic design codes. Despite later denial by CEA that the published intensity reflected such interference, MA Zongjin (), Chairman of the National Expert Committee for Wenchuan Earthquake who is also the Chairman of the National Expert Committee for Disaster Prevention, openly confirmed that \"some local workers wanted to increase (report of) local damages or seismic intensity\"\nin a press conference sponsored by the State Council State Council Information Office of the PRC.\n\nIn July 2008, local governments in the Sichuan Province coordinated a campaign to silence angry parents whose children died during the earthquake through monetary contracts. If the parents refused, officials threatened that they would receive nothing. Although Chinese officials have advocated a policy of openness in time before the Olympic Games, the pressure on parents to sign demonstrates that officials are determined to create an appearance of public harmony rather than investigate into the corruption or negligence of the construction of schools. The payment amounts vary by school but are roughly the same. In Hanwang, parents were offered a package valued at 8,800 USD in cash and a per-parent pension of nearly 5,600 USD. Many parents said they signed the contract, even if no real investigation ensues. Furthermore, officials have continued to use traditional methods of silencing: riot police officers have broken up protests by parents; the authorities have set up cordons around the schools; and officials have ordered the Chinese news media to stop reporting on school collapses.\n\nOn July 25, 2008, Liu Shaokun (刘绍坤), a Sichuan school teacher, was detained for disseminating rumors and destroying social order. Liu’s family was later told that he was being investigated on suspicion of the crime of inciting subversion. Liu, a teacher at Guanghan Middle School (四川省德阳市广汉中学), Deyang City, Sichuan Province, traveled to heavily hit areas after the May 12 Sichuan earthquake, took photos of collapsed school buildings, and put them online. In a media interview, he expressed his anger at “the shoddy ‘tofu’ buildings.” Liu was detained on June 25, 2008 at his school. He was ordered to serve one year of re-education through labor. Under RTL regulations, public security authorities may issue an order to anyone to serve up to four years of RTL without trial or formal charge. After being denied several visits, the family turned to international human rights organizations, who reported the case and urged the government to release him, which drew attention in the international community. On September 26, 2008, Liu was finally released to serve his sentence outside of RTL.\n\nChinese human rights activist Huang Qi was also detained. Huang Qi is an active rights defender in China. he established an Internet service company in October 1998 to help search for missing people, and launched a website called Tianwang Xunren on June 4, 1999. Huang Qi was arrested on June 3, 2000, and sentenced to five years imprisonment on May 9, 2003 by the Chengdu Intermediate People's Court for the crime of inciting subversion of state power. During the Sichuan Earthquake, Huang Qi's work and his website were widely reported by media to help find missing people to unite family members. He also wrote many articles about families who lost their children. Although initially tolerating independent reporting, China's security forces have begun to clamp down on dissent and public complaints. According to Human Rights In China, sources inside China said that on the evening of June 10, 2008, Huang Qi, Pu Fei, a volunteer for Tianwang, and Zuo Xiaohuan, a former teacher at Leshan Teachers College were missing after they were forced into a car by unidentified individuals. In the afternoon of June 12, 2008, Lawyer Xu, Tianwang's legal counsel, went to the Jinyang Police Station of Chengdu to file a missing persons report. The police reportedly told Xu that Huang Qi has been detained, and that the related legal procedure notice would be sent to his family but refused to disclose the grounds for Huang's detention. Huang Qi's 74-year-old mother, Pu Wenqing, said that the family had not received any notice from the police over the past few days.\n\nOn June 12, a BBC journalist was briefly detained in Dujiangyan due to \"danger of further aftershocks,\" and was advised to vacate the city. On June 17, a Hong-Kong-based human rights group reported that a retired professor, Zeng Hongling, was detained for \"subversion\" after publishing a critical essay titled \"\"My Personal Experience in the Earthquake.\" On June 20, two foreign journalists were detained for \"working behind police cordons\" at the site of a protest by parents in the town of Wufu.\n\nLi Chengpeng wrote an article on the construction of schools in Beichuan in 2008, and in a 2012 column published by \"The New York Times\" stated that man named Gou Yandong had been responsible for the building of six schools that did not suffer damage in the earthquake, but that Gou had since been forcibly treated for non-existent mental health problems.\n\nAlthough the central government was initially praised for its response to the quake (especially in comparison to Myanmar's ruling military junta's blockade of aid during Cyclone Nargis), it has seen an erosion in confidence over the school construction scandal.\n\nOn May 23, 2008, the government promised an inquiry into the matter. On June 16, the \"Legal Daily\" announced that prosecutors were beginning a probe, possibly to be led by anti-corruption investigator, Hu Hong, which, in part, will investigate the collapse of ten schools in Shifang. In an official press conference on September 4, 2008, MA Zongjin stated, \"We are still carefully thinking about and investigating this matter.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17334301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17334301", "title": "Social photography", "text": "Social photography\n\nSocial photography is a subcategory of photography focusing upon the technology, interaction and activities of individuals who take photographs. Digital cameras, photo sharing websites and the Internet have enabled new tools and methods of social networking while consumer trends such as flashpacking and adventure travel have led to a worldwide increase in socially connected photographers.\n\nThe proliferation of easy-to-use open source blogging methods, inexpensively-priced equipment and content management system applications has led to an increase in photography for social change and amateur photojournalism.\nSome extensions of social photography include geotagging and online mapping, while online social networking destinations like Facebook have led to an increase in the popularity of technology employing the real-time transfer of images. Where Facebook allows for users to instantly upload a picture from their mobile phone to their profile, there have recently been a number of services sprouting up that allows users to create real time photo streams. \n\nA wireless digital camera enables photographers to connect to cellular networks or other hotspots to share photos, print wirelessly and save photos directly to an image hosting website. Geographic areas serviced by outdoor WiFi networks permit extended applications for geocaching which can include the use of Global Positioning Systems and smartphones.\n\nSome news networks and online broadcasters encourage viewers to send in photographs of live, breaking and current events, enabling citizen journalists and amateur photographers to participate in the news gathering process.\n\nSome business companies started to look for individuals who can take images opposed to stock-photos that would help evolve their brand and this is typically done through social photography. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22310933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22310933", "title": "Stephen Symonds Foster", "text": "Stephen Symonds Foster\n\nStephen Symonds Foster (November 17, 1809 – September 13, 1881) was a radical American abolitionist known for his dramatic and aggressive style of public speaking, and for his stance against those in the church who failed to fight slavery. His marriage to Abby Kelley brought his energetic activism to bear on women's rights. He spoke out for temperance, and agitated against any government, including his own, that would condone slavery.\n\nFoster helped establish the New Hampshire Anti-Slavery Society, and belonged to the 'New Hampshire radicals' group within the American Anti-Slavery Society. Foster wrote anti-slavery tracts and published in 1843 a widely discussed book that met with protest and critical response: \"The Brotherhood of Thieves; or A True Picture of the American Church and Clergy: A Letter to Nathaniel Barney, of Nantucket.\" At Liberty Farm where they lived, Foster and his wife formed a link on the Underground Railroad, and helped fugitive slaves gain their freedom.\n\nFoster was born in Canterbury, New Hampshire on November 17, 1809. His parents Sarah and Asa Foster had twelve children, Stephen was the ninth. The family attended the local Congregational church, and took part in Canterbury's anti-slavery society.\n\nFoster apprenticed to a carpenter but left at age 22 to study to become a missionary. He went to Dartmouth College where his brother Asa had graduated and studied the classics, including Greek and Latin. Foster embraced abolitionism at this time, and in his third year invited Angelina Grimké to speak to the Young Men's Anti-Slavery Society. During his senior year, Foster was arrested and put in prison for not paying a debt of $12.14 to a local clockmaker; Foster was shocked to find that debtors were locked up with violent criminals and thieves, in common cells swarming with rats, lice and fleas. From prison, Foster wrote a letter of protest which was published in a local paper. His friends raised bail after two weeks, but Foster's letter aroused indignation among citizens who later cleaned out the jail and then passed a law which banned imprisonment for debt. Foster redoubled his efforts in school, especially his rhetoric and public speaking courses, and graduated in 1838 third in his class.\n\nFoster subsequently enrolled at Union Theological Seminary in New York City. There, he was forbidden by faculty to host an anti-slavery meeting he had scheduled. He was offered a scholarship if he would quit speaking of abolition, but Foster rejected this, saying he \"could not be bought to hold his peace.\" In the spring of 1839, he left New York to take a position as traveling lecturer for the New Hampshire Anti-Slavery Society.\n\nFoster was known to interrupt church services to denounce organized religion's complicity in slavery. In 1841, he was expelled from his Congregationalist church in Hanover, New Hampshire.\n\nIn Portland, Maine in 1842, Foster was wounded in a riot outside a meetinghouse. Pro-slavery supporters wished to prevent Foster and the radical abolitionist John Murray Spear from speaking. When the mob attacked, Foster took twenty blows to the head and had his coat torn in half. He was pulled from the crowd by women of the Portland Anti-Slavery Society who helped him escape through a back window. Spear was beaten nearly to death on the front steps of the meeting house. Local abolitionists took the men in and tended to their recuperation.\n\nIn 1843, he wrote the book \"The Brotherhood of Thieves; or A True Picture of the American Church and Clergy: A Letter to Nathaniel Barney, of Nantucket\" and in 1844 Foster's fellow abolitionist Parker Pillsbury published it through the Boston Anti-Slavery Office. The book went through twenty editions.\n\nIn 1844, Foster appeared in front of the New England Antislavery Convention holding an iron collar in one hand and iron manacles in the other. He said \"Behold here a specimen of the religion of this land, the handiwork of the American church and clergy.\"\n\nFoster was called a \"come-outer\", a phrase which denoted a person who dissented from religious orthodoxy. More specifically, it meant that Foster would not join a church which held a neutral position on the issue of slavery, and he would not take part in a government that let slavery happen. The phrase was derived from the Bible verse, II Corinthians 6:17 which read \"Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, said the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.\"\n\nAt the eclectic Free Convention in Rutland, Vermont in June 1858, Foster spoke after Pillsbury to say \"any law, constitution, court, or government, any church, priesthood, creed, or Bible, any Christ, or any God, that, by silence or otherwise, authorizes man to enslave man, merits the scorn and contempt of mankind.\"\n\nIn 1845, after a four-year courtship, Foster married Abby Kelley, a more famous social activist and a dynamic speaker who had occasionally joined with him on the abolitionist lecture circuit. They continued to travel and lecture together until the Civil War started in 1861. In early 1847, anticipating a family, the two bought a farm in Worcester, Massachusetts and called it Liberty Farm; there they lived until Foster's death in 1881. The Fosters used the farm to shelter escaping slaves on the Underground Railroad.\n\nOn May 19, 1847, Paulina Wright \"Alla\" Foster was born at Liberty Farm, the only child that the couple would have. To care for the infant, Abby Kelley Foster stayed home at first, helped occasionally by her sister-in-law Caroline Foster. The young girl's parents soon found that they could lecture separately or together as long as Alla was being looked after; more often it was Abby Kelley Foster who left her husband watching the girl. Once when Alla was three, and her mother was out on a speaking tour, Stephen Symonds Foster was asked by Alla to buy her a harmonica and a churn, and Foster responded that he had little money, and could only buy her the necessities. Foster himself was about to leave on a speaking engagement and intended to send the girl to be cared for by her grandparents. Foster anticipated that she would be lonely and might need a toy wagon. Foster wrote to his wife, saying \"I got the harmonica & wagon, & received for them a whole wagon load of kisses. She was careful, however, as she always is, to save some \"for mother\". I am struck with the fact that she always insists on your right to an equal part of every thing which I possess, if she attaches any value to it. One would almost think her specially commissioned to look after your rights, in your absence ... \"\n\nIn May 1850, Abby Kelley Foster went to Boston to take part in an annual Anti-Slavery Society meeting. Afterward, Abby met with ten others including Wendell Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, Harriot Kezia Hunt, Paulina Kellogg Wright Davis and Lucy Stone to help plan for a women's rights convention. They determined that it would be held near Liberty Farm in Worcester. That October, both Foster and his wife were among the featured speakers at the first National Women's Rights Convention. The two spoke again at the annual convention in Cleveland 1853 and in New York in 1856.\n\nIn 1869, amid tensions building up between factions of women's rights activists, Foster spoke out at a national meeting of the American Equal Rights Association (AERA) to accuse Elizabeth Cady Stanton of advocating \"Educated Suffrage\"—the right of upper-class white women to vote. Foster implied strongly that Stanton should step down as president of AERA. Henry Brown Blackwell tried to calm the waters by saying that all present, including Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, believed in \"negro suffrage\". Frederick Douglass widened the gap when he stood up and stated his position against Stanton's use in her address of the pejorative term 'Sambo'. The words of Foster and Douglass served to define a major split which separated women's rights activists into two camps; those like Stanton and Anthony who felt that educated women deserved the right to vote before or at the same time as uneducated men, and those like Stone, Douglass and Foster who felt that the political situation called for a drive to achieve suffrage for the African-American man, followed by a new focus on suffrage for women of all races.\n\nIn 1874, Worcester city officials put Liberty Farm up for auction to pay back taxes. In a manner similar to prior protests made by women's rights activists such as Lucy Stone, the Fosters refused to pay taxes on the farm because Abby Kelley Foster was not given the right to vote and was thus subject to \"taxation without representation\". A sympathetic neighbor bid on the property and then allowed Foster to buy it back from him. This became a yearly event, as the Fosters never paid their taxes directly.\n\nFoster died at Liberty Farm on September 12, 1881. A memorial service was held at the Worcester Horticultural Hall on September 24, with Reverend Samuel May, Jr. of Leicester, Massachusetts presiding. Tributes to Foster's life and works were spoken by Lucy Stone, Wendell Phillips, Reverend Henry T. Cheever and Parker Pillsbury.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44996567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44996567", "title": "Syed Essa Noori", "text": "Syed Essa Noori\n\nSyed Essa Noori (; born 1 January 1953) is a Pakistani politician who had been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan, from August 2013 to May 2018.\n\nHe was born on 1 January 1953.<ref name=\"pildat/dob\"></ref>\n\nHe was elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan as a candidate of Balochistan National Party (Mengal) (BNP-M) from Constituency NA-272 (Kech-cum-Gwadar) in by-election held in August 2013. He received 15,835 votes and defeated Muhammad Yasin Baloch, a candidate of National Party.\n"}
{"id": "41380379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41380379", "title": "Sylhetis", "text": "Sylhetis\n\nThe Sylhetis or Sylheti people (, ) are an Indo-Aryan ethnic group which originated from or are native of the Sylhet region of Bangladesh and the Barak Valley of the Indian state of Assam, and speak the Sylheti language. There are sizeable populations in the Indian states of Meghalaya, Tripura and Manipur. Established diaspora communities exist in the United Kingdom, the United States, the Middle East, Italy and other parts of the world. Sylhetis today maintain a distinct identity separate from or in addition to having a Bengali identity, due to linguistic differences, geographical uniqueness and historical reasons.\n\nLord Cornwallis introduced the Permanent Settlement Act of Bengal in 1793 and it altered the social, political and economic landscape of the Sylhet region; socioeconomic ramification for former landlords was severe as the land changed hands. On juxtapose, colonial administration opened new windows of opportunities for young men, who sought employment merchant ship companies. Young men from Sylhet boarded ships primarily at Kolkata, Mumbai and Singapore. Some of these early Sylheti seamen visited Britain and America and sought employment. By virtue of Magna Carta Libertatum, Sylhetis could enter and settle Britain freely (while a declaration of intent was required to enter the USA). Diaspora patterns indicate a strong connection between Sylheti diaspora and the movement of Sylheti seamen.\n\nThe Sylheti diaspora population grew in response to a need for an economic sustenance during the British Raj, when many Sylheti men left the region in search of employment. During this period, young men from Sylhet often worked as lascars in the British merchant marine. Some abandoned their ships in London in search of economic opportunity, while others found alternative routes to enter the country. Chain migration led to the eventual settlement of large numbers of Sylhetis in working-class neighbourhoods in London’s East End and other industrial towns and cities such as Luton, Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Bradford, and Oldham. \n\nToday Sylheti diaspora numbers around one million, mainly concentrated in United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Germany, Italy, France, Australia, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Finland and the Middle East and other European Countries. However, a 2008 study showed that 95% of Sylheti diaspora live in the UK. In the United States, most Sylhetis live in New York City, though sizable populations also live in Atlanta, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, and Detroit.\n\nSome argue that remittances sent from Sylheti diaspora around the world back to Bangladesh have negatively affected development in Bangladesh, where a lack of government initiatives has caused economic inertia. \n\nAccording to neo-classical theory, the poorest would move to the richest countries and those from densely populated areas would move to more sparsely peopled regions. This has clearly not been the case. The brain drain was a movement from core to core, purely on economic maximisation, while it was young Sylheti pioneers with access to financial resources that migrated from a severely overpopulated Bangladesh to the overcrowded streets of Spitalfields, poorest from all parts of Bangladesh migrated to Sylhet for a better life, causing a severe overcrowding and scarcity of resources in Sylhet.\n\nSylheti Hindus are socially stratified into four castes, called chaturvarna, and Muslims into three social classes. The caste system derived from Hindu system of varna, 'colour' and jati, 'ethnicity', which divides people into four colours: White, Red, Yellow and Black. White people are Brahmans, who are destined to be priests, teachers and preachers; Red people are Kshatriyas, who are destined to be kings, governors, warriors and soldiers; Yellow people are Vyasas, who are born to be cattle herders, ploughmen, artisans and merchants; and Black people are Shudras, who are born to be labourers and servants to the people of twice born caste. People from all caste denominations exist among Hindus in Sylhet.\n\nClass system among Muslims evolved during the halcyon days of the Mughal Empire and it is divided into three layers: Ashraf, Ajlaf and Arzal. Ashraf is the noble class destined to be priests, teachers, preachers, kings, governors, warriors and soldiers; Ajlaf is the middle class destined to be cattle herders, ploughmen, artisans and merchants; and Arzal is the working class destined to labour and provide services to all others.\n\n"}
{"id": "6884063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6884063", "title": "The Three Philosophers", "text": "The Three Philosophers\n\nThe Three Philosophers is an oil painting on canvas attributed to the Italian High Renaissance artist Giorgione. \nIt shows three philosophers - one young, one middle-aged, and one old.\nThe work was commissioned by the Venetian noble Taddeo Contarini, a Venetian merchant with an interest in the occult and alchemy. \"The Three Philosophers\" was finished one year before the painter died. One of Giorgione’s last paintings, it is now displayed at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. \nThe painting was finished by Sebastiano del Piombo.\n\n\"The Three Philosophers \"was finished around 1509, and the current name of the work derives from a writing of Marcantonio Michiel, (1484–1552) who saw it just some years after in a Venetian villa. The three figures portrayed are allegorical: an old bearded man, possibly a Greek philosopher; an Arab philosopher; and a sitting young man, enclosed within a natural landscape. In the background is a village with some mountains, the latter marked by a blue area whose meaning is unknown. The young man is observing a cave on the left of the scene, and apparently measuring it with some instruments. Since the end of the 19th century scholars and critics rejected on various grounds the earlier view that it is a representation of the three Magi gathered before Jesus' grotto.\n\nVarious interpretations about Giorgione's picture have been proposed. The Three Philosophers, the old man, the Arab figure and the young man, could be a depiction of transmission of knowledge, the Transmission of the Classics from the ancient Greeks philosophy through the Arab translations, that became actual again around the Italian Renaissance. The old man is representing a Greek philosopher, such as Plato or Aristotle, whose writings have been copied and transmitted through the Arab philosophers to the Italian Renaissance. The Arab philosopher is possibly representing the polyhistor Avicenna or Averroes, both Arab philosophers and Arab scientists from the Islamic Golden Age.\n\nThe young man could be seen as the new Renaissance science with roots in the past, looking into the empty darkness of the cave, symbolizing the yet undiscovered secrets. The cave might also symbolize the philosophic concept of Plato's Cave\n\nNew hypotheses about the figures, their identities and the symbolism are still currently advanced. In a note about the picture G. C. Williamsom, early in the 20th century, stated that \"It represents Evander and his son Pallas showing to Aeneas the future site of Rome\". The possibility that the three men are King Solomon, Hiram I, King of Tyre, and Hiram Abiff has been advanced by Neil K. MacLennan and Ross S. Kilpatrick.\n\nIt has been suggested that the figure of the young man can be inscribed neatly in a right-angled triangle for which the Pythagorean theorem applies. , relying on a reading of Polydore Vergil has proposed that the philosophers are the teachers of Pythagoras - Pherecydes of Syros and Thales. Thales has been painted as a Jew, while Pherecydes was mistakenly believed to be a Syrian. This interpretation was modified by Frank Keim who claimed that the older philosopher is in fact Aristarchus of Samos\n\nOther scholars have asserted that the figures are typical representations for three stages of humanity (youth, middle and old age), three epochs of European civilization (Antiquity, Middle Age, Renaissance), the three Abrahamic religions or some combination of such general conceptions.\nAugusto Gentili proposed that the picture illustrates the waiting for the Antichrist, based on conjunctionist astrology. On the sheet held by the oldest philosopher the word 'eclipsis' and an astronomical diagram can be seen. The great conjunction of 1503 and the eclipse the same year were believed to be signs announcing its coming.\n\nThis painting was documented in David Teniers the Younger's catalog \"Theatrum Pictorium\" of the art collection of Archduke Leopold Wilhelm in 1659 and again in 1673, but the portrait had already found fame in Teniers' portrayals of the Archduke's art collection: Tenier's copies that he made of the exhibits have long been recognised as a valuable historical resource.\nThis painting is now displayed at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. While working on this picture, David Teniers the Younger made tiny separate copies of each and every picture as a study for the final big painting, depicting the duke's collection. In this small copy that measures 21.5 x 30.9 cm, he put a trident in the older man's hand, but that was not in the original painting nor depicted in the final painting, the \"Archduke Leopold Wilhelm in his Gallery in Brussels\".\nIn the original painting the old man holds only a script. This possibly could have been an allusion to the weapon of Poseidon, the god of the sea in classical mythology, but it is David Teniers the Younger's own speculation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3044443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3044443", "title": "Toto language", "text": "Toto language\n\nToto is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken on the border of India and Bhutan, by the tribal Toto people in Totopara, West Bengal along the border with Bhutan. It is also spoken in Subhapara, Dhunchipara, and Panchayatpara hillocks on India-Bhutan border in Jalpaiguri district, West Bengal (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nToto is listed as a critically endangered language by UNESCO, with perhaps 1,000 speakers. However, most families in the community speak Toto at home. Most children learn Toto at home, although they use Bengali in school.\n\nAnthropological Survey of India (AnSI) set out to conduct a study on language of the primitive Toto tribe, whose population has dwindled to 1,536, they did not realize that the language is more endangered than the tribe itself. Researchers and even the members of Toto community admit that the language is under threat and influence of other languages, particularly Nepali and Bengali, is increasing day by day. Despite the language lacking a script, members of the community, whose literacy rate as per sample survey carried out in 2003 was just 33.64 per cent, have penned books and poems in their language albeit in the Bengali script.\n\nThe Himalayan Languages Project is working on the first grammatical sketch of Toto. Himalayan Languages Project have arguably contributed more to advancing Tibeto-Burman linguistics than all other working scholars combined. George van Driem outlines the contributions of linguistics, archaeology and genetics to the population history of the greater Himalayan region. He emphasizes the role of genetics in the study of Tibeto-Burman linguistics.\n\nToto Language consists of 25 segmental Phonemes of which 19 are consonants and 6 are vowels. The phonemes of this language are as follows:\nVowels:\nThese are 6 vowel phonemes in Toto language. They can be classified horizontally into three as front unrounded, central unrounded and back rounded vowels and vertically as close, close-mid, open-mid and open.\n\nThe following minimal pairs establish the phonetics status of the vowel\n\n/i/~/u/\n\n/Jiya/ ‘rat’\n\n/Juya/ ‘bird’\n\n/i/~/e/\n\n/iŋ/ ‘brother in-law’\n\n/eŋ/ ‘ginger’\n\n/ciwa/ ‘tear’\n\n/cewa/ ‘cut’ (cloth)\n\n/i/~/a/\n\n/guJi/ ‘owl’\n\n/guJa/ ‘pocket’\n\n/nico/ ‘fire’ \n\n/naco/ ‘two’\n\n/e/~/o/\n\n/je/ ‘grass’\n\n/jo/ ‘breast’\n\n/e/~/a/\n\n/lepa/ ‘brain’\n\n/lapa/ ‘jungle betel leaf’\n\n/kewa/ ‘birth’\n\n/kawa/ ‘sound’\n\nThere are eight diphthongs realized in Toto language. These are /ei/, /ai/, /oi/, /ui/, /əi/, /eu/, /au/ and /ou/. Diphthong /ui/ occurs in all positions, /eu/ occurs initial and medial positions, /ai/, /oi/, /əi/, and /ei/ occur medial and final positions. While /ou/ and /au/ occur only in the medial positions.\nFurthermore, with regard to consonants, Toto has an inventory of ten obstruents, eight of which are contrastive in voicing. Toto also distinguishes the voiceless obstruents /t/ and /p/ with its aspirated equivalents /tʰ/ and /pʰ/, respectively. \n\nBelow are some Toto words from van Driem (1995), who uses these words to suggest that Toto may be a Sal language.\n\nThe Toto personal pronouns are (van Driem 1995):\nThe Toto numerals are (van Driem 1995):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2686015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2686015", "title": "Unrecognized ethnic groups in China", "text": "Unrecognized ethnic groups in China\n\nSeveral ethnic groups of the People's Republic of China are not officially recognized. Taken together, these groups (未识别民族 \"wèi shíbié mínzú)\" number more than 730,000 people; if considered as a single group, they would constitute the twentieth most populous ethnic group of China. Some scholars have estimated that there are over 200 distinct ethnic groups that inhabit China. There are in addition small distinct ethnic groups that have been classified as part of larger ethnic groups that are officially recognized. Some groups like the Hui of Xinjiang with the Hui of Fujian are geographically and culturally separate except for the shared belief of Islam. Han Chinese being the world's largest ethnic group has a large diversity within it, such as in Gansu, the Han here may have genetic traits from the assimilated Tangut civilization. Although they are indigenous to Hainan island and do not speak a Chinese language, the Limgao (Ong-Be) people near the capital (8% of the population) are counted as Han Chinese.\n\nNotable unrecognized ethnic groups include:\n\nEthnic groups that have been subsumed under the official list of 56 recognized ethnic groups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2177101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2177101", "title": "Waif", "text": "Waif\n\nA waif (from the Old French \"guaif\", \"stray beast\") is a living creature removed, by hardship, loss or other helpless circumstance, from its original surroundings. The most common usage of the word is to designate a homeless, forsaken or orphaned child, or someone whose appearance is evocative of the same.\n\nAs such, the term is similar to a ragamuffin or street urchin, although the main distinction is volitional: a runaway youth might live on the streets, but would not properly be called a waif as the departure from one's home was an exercise of free will. Likewise, a person fleeing their home for purposes of safety (as in response to political oppression or natural disaster), is typically considered not a waif but a refugee.\n\nOrphaned children, left to fend for themselves, are common as literary protagonists, especially in children's and fantasy literature. The characters Heathcliff in Emily Brontë's 1847 novel \"Wuthering Heights\" and Jo, the crossing sweeper in Charles Dickens' 1852 novel \"Bleak House\" are waifs. Dickens, it may be noted, has been called \"the Master of Waif Literature.\" Bret Harte's 1890 novel \"A Waif of the Plains\", set against the backdrop of the Oregon Trail in the 1850s, is another example. The children in \"A Series of Unfortunate Events\" are usually waifs, in between their unsuccessful stints in the care of various relatives. In modern adult fantasy writing, it could be argued that Kvothe of Patrick Rothfuss's \"The Kingkiller Chronicle\" (\"The Name of the Wind\" and \"The Wise Man's Fear\") \"was\" a waif, and the stories include many flashback elements – as they are of Kvothe's life told by Kvothe – to the time when he indeed was a waif.\n\nLiterary waifs are frequently depicted with a frail appearance, although such physical aspects are not inherent in the term. Such evocations may reflect the endemic malnutrition of the street urchin.\n\nChicago's Mercy Home for Boys and Girls, a long-term residential home for troubled young men and women from the streets and abusive homes, has published \"The Waif's Messenger\" for more than 100 years.\n\nA cartoon waif, an orphan boy, appeared in the 1936 \"Rainbow Parade\" cartoon \"A Waif's Welcome\".\n\nIn nautical terms, a waif is any survivor of a shipwreck compelled to make land upon a foreign shore. In this sense \"waif\" is roughly synonymous with \"castaway\", although the latter term is generally associated with isolation; a waif (in the nautical sense) usually indicates a survivor of a marine disaster who has fallen into the care or custody of others. \n\"Some seven years ago...there appeared the remarkable saga of Manjiro, the shipwrecked Japanese waif who was rescued and brought to the United States by a Yankee whaling captain.\"\n\nDating from the Middle Ages, when a woman was proscribed and subjected to penalties of outlawry, she was said to be “waived” and called a \"waif\". This waiving of the law was tantamount to outlawry since it removed all protection of the law. Women in this status were outside of the \"law\", and as with male outlaws, others could kill them on sight as if they were wild animals.\n\nUnder British common law, items stolen by a thief and discarded during the thief's flight are \"waifs.\" The monarch owns such waifs by royal prerogative.\n\nReferences to waifs in music are sometimes self-deprecating, as in the name of the Australian folk-rock band The Waifs, or Tracy Bonham's song \"I'm Not a Waif\".\n\nMany other songs use the word \"waif\" to romanticize street children and runaways, as in the Marc Almond song \"Waifs and Strays\", or the Steely Dan song \"Janie Runaway\", which describes the title character as being the \"wonderwaif of Gramercy Park\".\n\nThe song \" Black and White Sunshine\" by Noel Gallagher`s High Flying Birds contains the lyric \" these are the glory days for the waifs and the strays \".\n\nIn botany, a \"waif\" is an unusual species found in the wild that is alien and either a) is unsuccessful at reproduction without human intervention, or b) only persists a few generations and disappears. Such a plant never gets \"naturalized\" in the wild. \"Waif flora\" also refers to plant species which occur on oceanic islands due to chance long-distance dispersion of seeds.\n\nIn fashion and related popular culture, the term \"waif\" is commonly used to describe a very thin person, usually a woman.\n\n\"The waif look\" was used in the 1960s to describe thin, large-eyed models such as Twiggy, and Edie Sedgwick. The \"gamine\" look of the 1950s, associated with actresses such as Audrey Hepburn, Leslie Caron and Jean Seberg, was, to some extent, a precursor.\n\nThe term \"waif\" was seemingly ubiquitous in the 1990s, with heroin chic fashion and models such as Kate Moss and Jaime King on the runways and in advertisements. Actresses such as \"Ally McBeal\" star Calista Flockhart, Winona Ryder, recently the British actress Keira Knightley and singer Celine Dion have all been pinned with the term.\n\nAlthough the heroin chic look has gone out of fashion, it still holds some popularity in Hollywood. For example, Wonderbra model Eva Herzigová was criticized over her waif-like figure. \"Daily Mirror\" columnist Sue Carroll wrote:\n"}
{"id": "358375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358375", "title": "Westland affair", "text": "Westland affair\n\nThe Westland affair in 1985–86 was an episode in which Margaret Thatcher, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and her Secretary of State for Defence, Michael Heseltine, went public over a cabinet dispute with questions raised about whether the conventions of cabinet government were being observed and about the integrity of senior politicians.\n\nThe argument was over the future of Westland Helicopters, Britain's last helicopter manufacturer, which was to be the subject of a rescue bid. While the Defence Secretary, Heseltine, favoured a European solution, integrating Westland with a consortium including British Aerospace (BAe), Italian (Agusta) and French companies, the Prime Minister and the Trade and Industry Secretary, Leon Brittan, while ostensibly maintaining a neutral stance, wanted to see Westland merge with Sikorsky, an American company.\n\nHeseltine refused to accept Thatcher's choice and claimed that Thatcher was refusing to allow a free ministerial discussion about the matter, even suggesting she had lied about cancelling a scheduled meeting. He eventually, when ordered to cease campaigning for his European consortium, resigned and walked out of a Cabinet meeting in January 1986. Brittan was then forced to resign for having (on the orders of Thatcher's aides, he admitted some years later) previously ordered the leaking to the press of a confidential legal letter critical of Heseltine, and for his lack of candour to the House of Commons about his efforts to persuade British Aerospace to withdraw from Heseltine's consortium.\n\nThatcher's survival as Prime Minister briefly appeared to be in question, although she rode out the crisis. The episode had been an embarrassment to the Conservative government of Thatcher and undermined her reputation.\n\nThe Westland affair originated with Alan Bristow's bid for the company in April 1985. By June, Bristow was threatening to end his bid unless the Government assured him that there would be future orders for the company from the Ministry of Defence and that the repayment of over £40 million of launch aid for Westland's newest helicopter from the Department of Trade and Industry was waived.\n\nHeseltine at this time was uninterested in Westland helicopters when approached by Norman Tebbit, the then Trade and Industry Secretary, as plenty of American helicopters were available to meet Britain's defence requirements. He attended two meetings about the company's future in June 1985, chaired by Thatcher. It was decided that Tebbit should persuade the Bank of England to co-operate with the main creditors in the hope that a recovery plan and new management would end the threat of receivership.\n\nBristow withdrew his bid and in late June Sir John Cuckney was brought in as chairman of Westland.\n\nCuckney proposed that a new minority shareholder of 29.9% be introduced to Westland. No British firm was willing, but Sikorsky was interested. Cuckney proposed that Westland merge with United Technologies Corporation, of which the US company Sikorsky was a subsidiary. Heseltine came out against this plan after realising that Westland would probably become responsible for assembling the Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk, which the Ministry of Defence would then be under great pressure to buy. He preferred Westland to go into receivership so that British companies GEC and British Aerospace could buy the viable parts of the business.\n\nIn mid-October Heseltine suggested a European consortium which would include French Aerospatiale, German MBB and Italian Agusta (Sikorsky was now negotiating a strategic linkup with Italian Fiat). Leon Brittan, who had replaced Tebbit as Trade and Industry Secretary in September 1985, at first urged Thatcher to consider a European option (Heseltine later claimed Brittan this option, although Brittan denied this). The Government was officially neutral (i.e. arguing that it was a matter for Westland directors and shareholders) but by November Heseltine was lobbying hard for the European option.\n\nIn late November Peter Levene, Chief of Procurement at the Ministry of Defence, had a meeting at the Ministry with his French, West German and Italian counterparts (the National Armaments Directors or NADs) and the representatives of the consortium, and agreed to \"buy European\" for certain classes of helicopters. If Westland went ahead with Sikorsky its helicopters, under this new agreement, would be unable to be bought by the four governments. The meeting was later praised by the House of Commons Defence Select Committee. Thatcher, who only learned of the meeting through Cuckney, was displeased, as were Brittan and the Treasury, who thought the US option might be cheaper. although Thatcher and Leon Brittan kept to their official pretence of neutrality.\n\nIn November 1985, Sikorsky made an offer and Westland's management were favourable.\n\nIn early December Thatcher had two \"ad hoc\" meetings with Heseltine, Brittan, Tebbit, William Whitelaw (Deputy Prime Minister), Geoffrey Howe (Foreign Secretary) and Nigel Lawson (Chancellor of the Exchequer) on 5 and 6 December. Brittan argued that the NADs' opposition should be set aside, but Howe and Tebbit were not unsympathetic to Heseltine's proposed consortium, and the decision was deferred to the Cabinet Economic Affairs Committee (E(A)) on Monday 9 December 1985. Cuckney and a Westland financial adviser were invited to attend the E(A) meeting. Cuckney said that it was the management's view that the Sikorsky option was the best one. A majority of the E(A) meeting agreed to dismiss the NADs' opposition. Thatcher, who complained that three hours had been spent discussing a company with a market capitalisation of only £30m (a tiny amount in government terms), allowed Heseltine until 4 pm on Friday 13 December to submit a viable proposal for a European deal. He did (with British Aerospace and GEC now part of his consortium), but Westland's directors rejected it and chose Sikorsky. Heseltine had expected that there would be a second meeting of E(A) to discuss his consortium, but no such meeting was called; Thatcher later claimed that the Monday meeting had agreed to leave the decision to Westland to take, but it later emerged that Ridley and Lord Young placed such a meeting in their diaries and had been told by Number Ten that it had been cancelled. Heseltine threatened resignation for the first time.\n\nAt Cabinet on Thursday 12 December Heseltine had an angry exchange with Thatcher about the allegedly cancelled meeting (Thatcher claimed that no such meeting had ever been scheduled). Westland was not on the Cabinet agenda that day and Thatcher refused to permit a discussion on the matter, arguing that Cabinet could not do so without the necessary papers. Heseltine asked for his dissent to be minuted, and this was not done, although Cabinet Secretary Robert Armstrong claimed that this had been an error and added it himself. On Monday 16 December Brittan told the House of Commons that the decision was up to Westland; on Wednesday 18 December Heseltine won the backing of the Commons Defence Committee for the European Consortium's latest bid. On Thursday 19 December the matter was discussed at Cabinet for ten minutes: Cabinet approved leaving the decision to Westland and Heseltine was ordered to cease campaigning for the European option.\n\nOver Christmas, Thatcher discussed with close colleagues the option of sacking Heseltine, as Brittan had urged her to do (Chief Whip John Wakeham cautioned against), but—as she later admitted in her memoirs—she shrank from doing so as he was too popular and weighty a political figure. Thatcher and ministerial colleagues spent two and a half hours writing three successive drafts of a letter threatening Heseltine with the sack, but did not send it as her press adviser Bernard Ingham advised that Heseltine might use it an excuse to resign.\n\nBy now the political row was being discussed in the media, partly because of the lack of other news in December. Cuckney wrote to Thatcher, at her behest, asking for reassurance that the Sikorsky deal would not damage Westland's business prospects in Europe. Heseltine was not satisfied with Thatcher's draft reply when he saw it and consulted Sir Patrick Mayhew (Solicitor-General and acting Attorney-General as Sir Michael Havers was ill) on the grounds that the government might be legally liable for any incorrect advice. Heseltine supplied extra material about the risk of losing European business, which Thatcher did not include in her reply to Cuckney. Thatcher replied to Cuckney to the effect that the British Government would continue to support Westland in gaining orders in Europe.\n\nIn early January Heseltine then wrote to David Horne of Lloyds Merchant Bank, who was advising the European consortium (in reply to planted questions from Horne which had been dictated to him over the phone by one of Heseltine's staff), giving him the advice which Thatcher had declined to include in her letter to Cuckney. Contradicting Thatcher's reassurances to Cuckney, Heseltine claimed that the Sikorsky deal would be \"incompatible with participation\" in European helicopter projects. Heseltine's letter was leaked to \"The Times\". This was a blatant challenge to Thatcher's authority as Heseltine had not consulted Downing Street, the Department of Trade and Industry or Mayhew before writing to Horne.\n\nHeseltine's letter to Horne, on Thatcher's request, was referred to the Solicitor-General, Patrick Mayhew. Mayhew sent a reply to Heseltine, noting \"material inaccuracies\" in Heseltine's letter, and asking Heseltine to write to Horne again, correcting them. Mayhew's letter of rebuke to Heseltine—marked \"Confidential\"—reached Heseltine at lunchtime on Monday 6 January and was immediately and selectively leaked to the Press Association by Colette Bowe, chief information officer at the Department of Trade and Industry, at Brittan's request. There was controversy over whose orders Colette Bowe was following. The Attorney-General, Sir Michael Havers, took a stern view of leaks, especially of confidential legal advice, and threatened to resign if an official inquiry was not set up to look into it. Thatcher agreed to do this.\n\nCabinet met on the morning of Thursday 9 January, with Thatcher already having agreed her position with close colleagues at Chequers that weekend, and arranged that Scottish Secretary George Younger should take over as Defence Secretary if Heseltine resigned. Westland was first on the agenda, and Heseltine and Brittan were permitted to put their cases. Heseltine had won the moral high ground over the leaking saga, but Lawson recorded that he seemed obsessive at Cabinet and attracted little sympathy. Thatcher then reiterated her position, which had already been endorsed by the Cabinet, that Westland's future was a matter for Westland to decide, and announced that as this was a time of business negotiations all answers to questions about Westland must be cleared through the Cabinet Office. Heseltine agreed. However, in response to a question by Nicholas Ridley she then confirmed that this also applied to statements which had been made. Heseltine argued that he should be allowed to reaffirm statements he had already made but Thatcher disagreed, arguing that Cabinet collective responsibility should be observed. Heseltine protested that there had been no collective responsibility, gathered up his papers and left. Although eyewitness accounts differ as to the exact details, Peter Jenkins claims that Heseltine lost his cool and proclaimed \"I can no longer be a member of this Cabinet\". Heseltine then walked out of Downing Street and announced his resignation to the assembled media.\n\nThatcher then adjourned the Cabinet for a brief break. George Younger was then offered and accepted the office of Secretary of State for Defence, which Heseltine had just relinquished. The Prime Minister's office then requested Malcolm Rifkind to take up Younger's previous job, Secretary of State for Scotland, which he accepted. Cabinet then resumed.\n\nAt 4 pm that day at the Ministry of Defence (rather than waiting to make a statement to the House of Commons when it resumed four days later) Heseltine delivered a 3,000 word, 22 minute resignation statement detailing his grievances. He blamed Thatcher's intransigence, saying his views were ignored. He may well have prepared this earlier, although his private secretary Richard Mottram says not. To Thatcher's fury Defence officials had helped him throughout the crisis and in preparing this document. Thatcher sent a letter to Heseltine, as is customary on these occasions.\n\nOn 13 January, Thatcher held a meeting with Whitelaw, Brittan, Younger and John Wakeham to decide what should then happen. The conclusion was that Brittan, rather than the Prime Minister, should reply to Heseltine's statement on that day.\n\nIn his resignation statement in the House of Commons Heseltine accused Brittan of pressuring Sir Raymond Lygo, CEO of British Aerospace, to withdraw from the European Consortium. In response to questions in the House from Heseltine Brittan denied that he had received a letter from Lygo, but later had to admit that he had received a letter from Sir Austin Pearce, Chairman of British Aerospace; he had not disclosed it, he claimed, because it was marked \"Private and Strictly Confidential\". He was forced to return to the House a few hours later to apologise.\n\nOn 15 January there was a debate on Westland in the Commons in which Thatcher replied to Neil Kinnock, the leader of the Labour Party. Thatcher listed all the ministerial, committee and Cabinet meetings on Westland. Heseltine then made a speech criticising the way collective responsibility had been damaged over Westland.\n\nSir Robert Armstrong, the Cabinet Secretary, held an inquiry into the leaking of Mayhew's letter and reported his findings to the Prime Minister on 21 January. Armstrong concluded that Brittan had told Bowe to leak Mayhew's letter through a telephone conversation to Roger Mogg, Brittan's private secretary. Thatcher is said to have asked Brittan four times: \"Leon, why didn't you tell me.\" Havers, who demanded the inquiry, later claimed: \"Unless the PM is the most marvellous actress I've ever seen in my life she was as shocked as anybody that in fact it was on Leon Brittan's instructions.\" At the time Brittan claimed he had misunderstood Thatcher's wishes but later (on the television programme \"The Thatcher Factor\" on 7 April 1989) admitted that he had acted on the \"express\" instructions of Charles Powell and Bernard Ingham, Thatcher's two senior advisers. On 23 January, Thatcher had to make a speech to the Commons on Armstrong's inquiry.\n\nBrittan was being heavily criticised because of the fallout from the leak of the Mayhew letter and because of his lack of candour about the letter from British Aerospace. A meeting of the 1922 Committee, Conservative back-benchers, demanded Brittan's resignation. On 24 January therefore Brittan resigned because \"it has become clear to me that I no longer command the full confidence of my colleagues\".\n\nOn 27 January, Labour set down an adjournment motion. Whitelaw, Howe, Wakeham, John Biffen and Douglas Hurd helped Thatcher draft her speech for this occasion. Ronald Millar, one of the Prime Minister's friends, was asked to help revise the speech and Thatcher remarked to him that she might not be Prime Minister by six o'clock that evening if things went badly.\n\nNeil Kinnock, the leader of the Opposition, was generally thought to have made a poor opening speech. Alan Clark recorded in his diary: \"For a few seconds Kinnock had her cornered ... But then he had an attack of wind, gave her time to recover.\" Heseltine was frustrated at Kinnock's failure to exploit the moment and claimed that Thatcher's statement brought \"the politics of the matter to an end\" and that he would support the Government in the lobby.\n\nSikorsky then bought Westland, aided by mysterious prior purchases by mystery buyers, suspected by Cuckney and others, although without clear proof, of being an illegal concert party.\n\nWestland damaged Thatcher's reputation for credibility and made her look anti-European for the first time. It has been suggested that Thatcher's keenness on American control of Westland may have been linked to the Al-Yamamah arms deal, or that the US might have wanted Westland to sell Black Hawk helicopters to Saudi Arabia in circumvention of Congressional rules which prevented US arms sales to that country at the time.\n\nLeon Brittan's behaviour was thought in part to have been motivated by resentment at his demotion from Home Secretary to Trade and Industry Secretary in September 1985. However, he also thought Heseltine's mooted European consortium to be monopolistic and anti-competitive.\n\nApart from his clash of personalities with Thatcher, it was thought that Heseltine, concerned at having to take responsibility for Defence cuts which had been put back until 1986, and worried that Thatcher was unlikely to promote him further, was looking for an excuse to resign. Resigning would put him in good stead to be elected party leader after, as seemed likely at the time, the Conservatives lost the next election due by summer 1988.\n\nHeseltine retired to the back benches and spent nearly five years conducting an undeclared campaign for the party leadership. Although the Thatcher government was re-elected in 1987, he eventually challenged her in November 1990, polling well enough to hasten her resignation.\n\n"}
{"id": "38476550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38476550", "title": "Youth Information Service of Kazakhstan", "text": "Youth Information Service of Kazakhstan\n\nThe Public Fund Youth Information Service of Kazakhstan (YISK) is a nonprofit organization that unites young initiative people who strive to contribute their knowledge, energy and intellect to the development and prosperity of Kazakhstan.\n\nYouth Information Service was organized by young citizens of Kazakhstan students of higher educational institutes in July 1998 in Almaty.\n\nThe Public Fund has its branches and representative office in 9 regions of Kazakhstan: Almaty, Astana, Karaganda, Taraz, Oral, Shimkent, Kyzylorda, Semey, Kokshetau.\n\nThe development of civic initiatives among Kazakhstan`s youth through education, information exchange and cooperation of young organizations and young people and their involvement in social activity.\n\nMobilization of the entire national internal resources for country development requires a formation of the effective youth policy system. It is necessary to create mechanisms for the internal investments to the social sector of the country, when any citizen is able to contribute his or her expertise, energy and innovations to the development of Kazakhstan.\nNowadays, it is necessary to build a system of the education and progress in order to bring up public managers of new formation that would correspond to the demands of the new century. At present, when knowledge and innovation are highly valuable, the youth is to be the main strategic resource for the prosperity of the country.\n\nSocial Projects\n\nInformation programs\n\nEducational programs \n\nYouth events\n\nResearch and Expertise\n"}
