{"id": "51722088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51722088", "title": "1952 Basque Pelota World Championships", "text": "1952 Basque Pelota World Championships\n\nThe 1952 Basque Pelota World Championships were the 1st edition of the Basque Pelota World Championships organized by the FIPV.\n\n\nA total of 17 events were disputed, in 5 playing areas.\n\nTrinquete, 4 events disputed\nFronton (30 m), 1 event disputed\nFronton (36 m), 5 events disputed\nFronton (54 m), 2 events disputed\nPlaza Libre, 5 events disputed\n"}
{"id": "18991157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18991157", "title": "1972–73 California Golden Seals season", "text": "1972–73 California Golden Seals season\n\nThe 1972–73 California Golden Seals season was the California Golden Seals' sixth season in the National Hockey League (NHL). The Seals were hit particularly hard by defections to the new World Hockey Association, dropping 12 points from the previous year and returning to the basement of the West Division. The Seals had the worst record in the National Hockey League with a 13–55–10 record.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalties in minutes\"\n\n†Denotes player spent time with another team before joining Seals. Stats reflect time with the Seals only. ‡Traded mid-season\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; TOI = Time on ice (minutes); W= Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; GA = Goals against; SO = Shutouts; GAA = Goals against average\"\nThe Seals were involved in the following transactions during the 1972–73 season:\n\nThe Seals did not qualify for the playoffs\n\n"}
{"id": "47813480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47813480", "title": "1983 Israel Super Cup", "text": "1983 Israel Super Cup\n\nThe 1983 Israel Super Cup was the 13th Israel Super Cup (18th, including unofficial matches, as the competition wasn't played within the Israel Football Association in its first 5 editions, until 1969), an annual Israel football match played between the winners of the previous season's Top Division and Israel State Cup.\n\nThe match was played between Maccabi Netanya, champions of the 1982–83 Liga Leumit and Hapoel Tel Aviv, winners of the 1982–83 Israel State Cup.\n\nThis was Maccabi Netanya's 5th Israel Super Cup appearance and Hapoel Tel Aviv's 6th (including unofficial matches). At the match, played at Ramat Gan Stadium, Maccabi Netanya won 1–0.\n"}
{"id": "53731417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53731417", "title": "1992–93 Saudi First Division", "text": "1992–93 Saudi First Division\n\nStatistics of the 1992–93 Saudi First Division.\n\n"}
{"id": "7901527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7901527", "title": "2006–07 A1 Grand Prix of Nations, Brazil", "text": "2006–07 A1 Grand Prix of Nations, Brazil\n\nThe 2006–07 A1 Grand Prix of Nations, Brazil was scheduled to be an A1 Grand Prix race, to be held on March 18, 2007 in Brazil. This was to be the ninth race in the 2006-07 A1 Grand Prix season and the first meeting held at the circuit. \n\nOn 17 January 2007 the A1GP administration announced that as a result of a delay in obtaining a local terrestrial television agreement that the event would be cancelled. The race was removed from the schedule in the same manner as the previous season.\n\n"}
{"id": "798377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=798377", "title": "61*", "text": "61*\n\n61* is a 2001 American sports drama film written by Hank Steinberg and directed by Billy Crystal. It stars Barry Pepper as Roger Maris and Thomas Jane as Mickey Mantle on their quest to break Babe Ruth's 1927 single-season home run record of 60 during the 1961 season of the New York Yankees. The film first aired on HBO on April 28, 2001.\n\nIn 1998, the family of the late Roger Maris goes to Busch Stadium to witness Mark McGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals break their father's record with a 62nd home run. Maris' widow, Pat, is hospitalized due to complications from arrhythmia and watches the game on television from a hospital bed.\n\nDecades earlier in 1961, Maris is presented with the Most Valuable Player award for the 1960 baseball season, but Mickey Mantle remains the New York Yankees' superstar. Mantle starts off hot while Maris struggles. Maris suspects he may be traded, but new manager Ralph Houk has Mantle and Maris switch places in the Yankees' batting order to see if it helps. It does, and Maris begins to hit home runs at a record pace. Mantle keeps pace and it becomes clear that both \"M&M Boys\" will make a run at Babe Ruth's record of 60 homers in one season.\n\nMickey's life off the field is taking a toll on his playing. He drinks, enjoys the Manhattan nightlife and arrives at the ballpark hung over. More than once, pitcher Whitey Ford has to bail him out or sober him up. To keep Mantle out of trouble, Maris and teammate/roommate Bob Cerv invite him to move in with them in a modest home in Queens, with one condition: no women.\n\nNew York's fans and media pull for the popular and personable Mantle, a long-time Yankee. The quieter Maris is viewed as an outsider, aloof and unworthy. As the two men close in on the record, MLB Commissioner Ford Frick, who was Babe Ruth's ghostwriter, makes a decision: unless the record is broken in 154 games (the same number Ruth played in 1927), the new record would be listed separately from Ruth's record, because MLB has just begun using a new 162-game season.\n\nIt appears Mantle is not going to make it; his health deteriorates and he plays in constant pain. Maris, meanwhile, is unaccustomed to such a high level of public scrutiny and is uncomfortable interacting with the media, who dissect and distort everything he says or does. The fans heckle Maris and even throw objects at him on the field. Soon he begins receiving hate mail and death threats. His wife lives far from New York, usually available only by phone. The stress becomes so intense that Maris' hair begins to fall out in clumps. The Yankees owner also tries to favor Mantle by asking Houk to switch Mantle and Maris in the batting order, but Houk refuses, because the redesigned lineup has been winning a higher percentage of games.\n\nChronic injury and alcohol abuse catch up with Mantle, and an ill-advised injection by a doctor infects his hip and lands him in a hospital bed. With Mantle gone from the lineup, the stage becomes set for Maris. He fails to break the record in the 154th game of the season, but he does finally hit the record-breaking 61st home run during the final game of the season.\n\n\nMost of the baseball action scenes, including those set at Yankee Stadium, were actually filmed at Tiger Stadium in Detroit, Michigan. A combination of strategic photographing and post-production effects were used to enhance the illusion of the \"classic\" layout of Yankee Stadium. Tiger Stadium was credited as \"playing\" Yankee Stadium in the closing credits. Tiger Stadium also \"played itself\" as the home of the Tigers when the Yankees played them in Detroit.\n\nThe shots depicting Fenway Park and Baltimore's Memorial Stadium were shot at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.\n\nThe film received positive reviews from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 80% out of 15 professional critics gave the film a positive review, with an average rating of 6.7/10. Film critic Richard Roeper named \"61*\" one of his top five all-time favorite baseball movies. In 2002, actor Barry Pepper was a Golden Globe nominee for Best Performance by an Actor in a Miniseries or a Motion Picture Made for Television.\n\nIn the beginning of the film, Bob Cerv was seen with the Yankees on Opening Day. In reality, Cerv was a member of the Los Angeles Angels until May and then was traded to the Yankees.\n\nAlso on opening day, the broadcast announcer refers to the opposing Minnesota Twins pitcher as Camilo Pascual. In fact, the Twins' pitcher that day was Pedro Ramos, who would later distinguish himself as a reliever for the Yankees. As the Twins are warming up, two players, wearing numbers 2 (Zoilo Versalles) and 7 (Lenny Green) are seen. In the film, number 7 for the Twins throws right-handed and appears to be Caucasian. In fact, Green, who started in center field opening day for the Twins, is an African-American who batted and threw left-handed.\n\nIn his 2013 memoir, \"Still Foolin' 'Em\", Billy Crystal recounts how before it aired on HBO, the film was shown at the White House for a small audience that included President George W. Bush, who once owned baseball's Texas Rangers. A home run in the film, depicted as being hit off pitcher Frank Lary, was actually hit off left-hander Hank Aguirre, which the President pointed out to Crystal. Lary gave up Maris' 52nd and 57th homers of that 1961 season, but the one in question (his 53rd) did indeed come against Aguirre.\n\n"}
{"id": "22414690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22414690", "title": "AFL Dream Team", "text": "AFL Dream Team\n\nAFL Dream Team is an online Australian rules football based fantasy football game that was created in 2001 by Vapormedia and published by the Australian Football League (AFL) and Toyota. Participants assemble an imaginary team of real life players, limited by a salary cap, and score points based on those players' actual statistical performance on the field of play throughout the AFL home-and-away season. It is the second most popular Australian rules football fantasy game behind News Corporation's Supercoach game. It is similar to an offline based game of the same name that was run in the 1990s by The Age newspaper in Melbourne.\n\nPoints are gained or deducted depending on the performances of your 22 players for each round. Up to four emergencies can replace players in your starting 22, who didn't play that specific round. If you have a 0 scoring player in a certain position and don't have an emergency selected in that position, you'll not score any points for that player. You can choose who on the reserves list you'll use as an emergency. Meanwhile, the remaining five substitutes on your reserves list don't score, but can increase in value. Each week up to two trades can be made but if there are bye rounds that happen in generally round 10-14, you are given 3 trades a week.\n\nPoints are awarded for the following achievements.\n\n\nIn 2016 the point leaders were again dominated by midfielders like they are in most years. \n"}
{"id": "21843403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21843403", "title": "Ajuda United", "text": "Ajuda United\n\nAjuda United is a Guinea-Bissauan football club based in Bissau. They play in the 2nd division in Guinean football, the Campeonato Nacional da Guine-Bissau.\n"}
{"id": "6275113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6275113", "title": "Allison Danzig", "text": "Allison Danzig\n\nAllison \"Al\" Danzig (27 February 1898 – 27 January 1987) was an American sportswriter who specialized in writing about tennis, but also covered college football, squash, many Olympic Games, and rowing. Danzig was the only American sportswriter to extensively cover real tennis, the precursor to modern lawn tennis.\n\nDanzig covered every tournament in the Grand Slam - the U.S. Open, the Australian Open, Wimbledon, and the French Open - as well as many others. In 1968, Danzig was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, Rhode Island - becoming the first journalist in the Hall. In an interview shortly before his death, he named Bill Tilden as the greatest player he had covered.\n\nDanzig was born in 1898 in Waco, Texas, but grew up in Albany, New York. Talent ran in the family. His sister, Evelyn Danzig, wrote the music for the hit song \"Scarlet Ribbons\" in 1949.\n\nHe graduated in 1921 from Cornell University, where he was co-editor of \"The Daily Sun\" with E.B. White. Danzig also briefly played football at Cornell while weighing just 125-pounds. He joined \"The New York Times\" in 1923, after a stint at the \"Brooklyn Eagle\", and remained there until his retirement in 1968. Before becoming a sportswriter, Danzig wrote obituaries, and was originally planning for a career as a foreign correspondent.\n\nDanzig wrote several books, including: \"The Racquet Game\" (Macmillan 1930), a history of racquet sports; \"The Fireside Book of Tennis\" (Simon & Schuster 1972); and \"Oh, How They Played The Game\" (Macmillan 1971), about the early days of American football. A critic at \"The New York Times\" called his book \"History of American Football: Its Great Teams, Players and Coaches\" (1956) \"without doubt, the most ambitious and best book ever published on the subject of college football.\" His last book, \"The Winning Gallery\", was a collection of articles and essays about real tennis, which was published by the United States Court Tennis Association (USCTA).\n\nHe is credited with coining the term \"Grand Slam\" as well as the term \"ace\" to describe a serve in which the opposing player fails to get their racket on the ball.\n\nHe lived most of his adult life in Roslyn, New York, with his wife, two daughters, and one son. \nHe retired to New Jersey, where he died on 27 January 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "50986163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50986163", "title": "Asociación Deportiva Mexicana de Básquetbol", "text": "Asociación Deportiva Mexicana de Básquetbol\n\nThe Asociación Deportiva Mexicana de Básquetbol (ADEMEBA) is the governing body of basketball in Mexico. It was established in 2008.\n\nADEMEBA is recognized by FIBA and has taken the place of the FMB as the national basketball organization for Mexico.\n\nThe organization is currently directed by Modesto Robledo.\n\n"}
{"id": "870812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870812", "title": "Athens Olympic Sports Complex", "text": "Athens Olympic Sports Complex\n\nThe Athens Olympic Park (formerly known as Olympic Athletic Center of Athens \"Spiros Louis\" (, \"Olympiakó Athlitikó Kéntro Athinón \"Spýros Loúis\"\") or OACA ()), is a sport facilities complex located at Marousi, northeast Athens, Greece. The complex consists of five major venues as well as other supplementary sport facilities.\n\nThe Olympic Athletic Center of Athens has hosted the Mediterranean Games in 1991, the World Championship in Athletics in 1997 as well as other important athletic and cultural events. The most significant event the Athens Olympic Sports Complex has hosted, was the Olympic Games. OACA was the main venue for the Athens Olympic Games in 2004. The complex was revamped for the games under a design produced by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava.\n\nThe stadium, built in 1982 and extensively refurbished for the games in 2004, including the addition of a roof, hosted the athletics events and the soccer final, as well as the Opening Ceremony on August 13, 2004 and the Closing Ceremony on August 29, 2004.\n\nIt is currently used as the home ground of AEK Athens F.C. , one of the biggest football clubs in Greece.\n\nThe Nikos Galis Olympic Indoor Hall (also known simply as the Indoor Hall) was completed in 1995, and was the largest indoor venue in use for sporting events at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. It is part of the Athens Olympic Sports Complex, in the suburb of Maroussi. The arena was used for artistic gymnastics and trampolining and also hosted the finals of the basketball matches at the games. On May 18 and 20, 2006, the Olympic Indoor Hall hosted the 51st Eurovision Song Contest, that was held in Athens after Greece's victory at the Song Contest in 2005.\n\nThe Athens Olympic Sports Complex can be reached by Metro [stations \"Neratziotissa\" and \"Irini\" of Metro Line 1 (Green Line)], by suburban train (Proastiakos station \"Neratziotissa\"), or by direct bus lines [A7 (Kaniggos – Kifissia), 602 (N. Ionia – Kalogreza – Panormou Metro Station), 550 (P. Faliro – Kifissia).\n\nWhile it was reported in 2008 that almost all of the Olympic venues utilized for the 2004 games, including certain facilities in the Sports Complex such as the velodrome and tennis center, have fallen into varying states of dereliction or disrepair, all of the facilities in the Athens Olympic Sports Complex are still in use today.\n\nThe table below illustrates how the Athens Olympic Sports Complex facilities are used today:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39537226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39537226", "title": "Austria Squash Rackets", "text": "Austria Squash Rackets\n\nAustria Squash Rackets () is the national organisation for squash in Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "25546506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25546506", "title": "Bastion Road", "text": "Bastion Road\n\nBastion Road, also known as Bastion Gardens, is a football stadium in Prestatyn, Wales. It is currently used for football matches and is the home ground of Prestatyn Town F.C.. The stadium holds up to 2,300 people, although the record attendance was 1,280.\n\nPrestatyn moved to their present site in 1969 when their previous ground at the rear of the Central Beach Club (the large public house that can be seen directly opposite the ground) was sold off for development.\nFor many years the new ground was relatively undeveloped with the only building being the dressing room block which for its time was modern and well-equipped with spacious dressing rooms, a tea bar and storage rooms - but the rest of the ground fell some way short.\nThe pitch was just roped off and access was from Bastion Gardens as it is to this day. No other spectator facilities were available and low crowds reflected the spartan surroundings in the dead of winter but early and late season games in the warmer weather often saw gates top the 100 mark.\n\nPlans to build a 250-seated stand over the dressing room block were drawn up but the scheme was costly and never came to fruition. A lean-to cover was added to the building in the late 1970s to afford spectators some shelter from the elements. In the mid-1980s another set of plans were drawn up to build a covered enclosure but again, this never came to fruition.\nThus the scene remained virtually unchanged until the 1992/3 close season when, after being elected to the Welsh Alliance League as runners-up to St Asaph City, a post and rail was erected around the pitch along with brick built dugouts.\n\nThis work was initiated by club stalwart Henry Porter and then chairman Glyn Breeze Jones and part of the labour was carried out by community service offenders.\nIn the mid-1990s old bus shelters were acquired from Prestatyn Town Council after the main bus station in the town centre was modernised and these were put up on the cricket field side of the ground which although something of an eyesore, offered adequate protection from the rain and gave the ground a more `enclosed` feel.\nIn 1995 the committee decided that in-house bar facilities were needed and with the help of a loan from Prestatyn Town Council, the building was extended towards the cricket field and a small bar installed and gave the club its first proper base for meetings.\n\nIt was officially opened for a match against a Manchester United XI in July 1995 which the Red Devils won 5-0 in front of a record attendance for a Prestatyn game of 3,200.\nWhen incoming chairman Steve Jones took over the helm in 2004/5, he took the project to new heights and added on the new bar area as well as demolishing the bus shelters and replacing them with a new more modern stand which provided seating for 200 and covered standing for another 150.\nAt the same time the entrance was fenced off and a turnstile built with hard standing laid all around the pitch. The dressing rooms and kitchen area were also redeveloped and extensive landscaping work carried out.\nBut the biggest changes came in the summer of 2008 when, having clinched promotion to the Welsh Premier League, the committee and volunteers were left with just eight days to bring the ground up to the required criteria.\n\nThe club's original application was due to be heard in March but was deferred until 23 April. The deadline to meet the criteria was 1 May.\nAt the meeting of Denbighshire County Council at Ruthin on the 23rd, the application was heard at 10am and passed through 'on the nod' in record time, by five past ten chairman Tony Thackeray had phoned the good news to the ground and by ten past the workmen were hard at it, digging footings for lights and laying concrete bases for the new seats.\nIn just eight days the floodlights were put up and working, a turnstile block was built, 200 extra seats were installed, a press box went up, the referee's changing accommodation was revamped and the whole ground was tidied up and painted. The then Welsh Premier League Secretary John Deakin came to inspect the work and passed the ground as fit for promotion.\n\nIn order to meet the new higher criteria when the Welsh Premier League's format changed to the Super 12 in 2010/11, Prestatyn were required to build further spectator accommodation, improve car parking facilities, provide more hard standing, enlarge the dressing rooms and create more turnstile entrances. The Seasiders carried out ongoing work throughout their inaugural WPL season, paying for it as and when funds allowed.\nAt Christmas 2008, the open seats were covered and in March 2009 a further 60 seats were added and covered which meant Bastion Gardens had the requisite 500 seating capacity to comply with the FAW Domestic Licence. For the big Bank Holiday derby on Easter Monday 2009, the old pay hut which had stood at the clubhouse end was given a makeover and installed at the top of the ground where a new walkway and railing were also added.\n\nIn early 2009 plans were submitted to Denbighshire Council for another 500 seat stand behind the top goal and a brick built facility to house the boardroom, club shop, tea bar, a toilet and stores. In spring 2009 the club were awarded a grant of £8,500 towards the cost of installing a concrete panel fence along the whole of the Bastion Gardens side and across the top end of the ever-improving stadium.\nOn 29 July 2009, Denbighshire's planning committee unanimously approved submissions for the new stand - which would also contain a refreshment bar, additional toilets and disabled seating - behind the 'top' goal as well as a combined TV gantry and interview area plus a police control room on the Bastion Gardens side.\nComing on the back of earlier approval for the utility building and an extension to the dressing rooms and covered terracing/seating at the Clubhouse end, the Seasiders now had the requisite permission to build all the facilities they needed to meet the Domestic Licence and also the UEFA Licence in due course.\n\nThe latter half of 2009 saw the club striving to attain Super 12 status and while manager Neil Gibson made improvements to his squad in order to compete on the pitch, off the field the committee began planning the necessary grant applications that would enable them to upgrade the facilities.\n\nIn January 2010 after a two-month delay, the Welsh Grounds Improvements Trust awarded them just short of £32,000 to build a new medical room, extend the dressing rooms to meet the new criteria, lay down concrete over the grassed areas in front of the clubhouse and build a new TV gantry and police control room. In addition a spacious disabled area was also built which provided covered accommodation for six spectators and their carers if needed, all sited within easy reach of the club's facilities.\n"}
{"id": "23595715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23595715", "title": "Beanibazar SC", "text": "Beanibazar SC\n\nBeanibazar Sporting Club is a Bangladeshi football club from Beanibazar, Sylhet.\n\nBeanibazar Sporting Club was formed in 2009 as a professional football club to take part in the Bangladesh Premier League. In 2009–10 season, however, it relegated along with Sukhtara Sangsad, a sport club from Narayanganj. Later it joined Bangladesh Championship League, the 2nd tier league in Bangladesh. It is one of the powerful football club in Sylhet.\n\nThere is much confusion with the club's name in the Bangladeshi media. Various channels and websites mention various names of the club's name, e.g. Beanibazar, Biyanibazar, Biyanibazar FC, Biyanibazar Sporting Club. Although the club's website names it \"Beanibazar Sporting Club\" it provides no information on it.\n"}
{"id": "18053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18053", "title": "Bodyline", "text": "Bodyline\n\nBodyline, also known as fast leg theory bowling, was a cricketing tactic devised by the English cricket team for their 1932–33 Ashes tour of Australia, specifically to combat the extraordinary batting skill of Australia's Don Bradman. A bodyline delivery was one where the cricket ball was bowled at the body of the batsman, in the hope that when he defended himself with his bat, a resulting deflection could be caught by one of several fielders standing close by.\n\nThe tactic was considered by critics to be intimidatory and physically threatening, to the point of being unfair in a game that was supposed to uphold gentlemanly traditions. England's use of a tactic perceived by some as overly aggressive or even unfair ultimately threatened diplomatic relations between the two countries before the situation was calmed.\n\nAlthough no serious injuries arose from any short-pitched deliveries while a leg theory field was actually set, the tactic still led to considerable ill feeling between the two teams, particularly when Australian batsmen suffered actual injuries in separate incidents, which inflamed the watching crowds. The controversy eventually spilled into the diplomatic arena.\n\nShort-pitched bowling continues to be permitted in cricket, even when aimed at the batsman. However, over time, several of the Laws of Cricket were changed to render the bodyline tactic less effective.\n\nBodyline was a tactic devised for and primarily used in the Ashes series between England and Australia in 1932—33. The tactic involved bowling at leg stump or just outside it, pitching the ball short so that it reared at the body of a batsman standing in an orthodox batting position. A ring of fielders ranged on the leg side would catch any defensive deflections from the bat. The batsman's options were to evade the ball through ducking or moving aside, allow the ball to strike their body or play the ball with his bat. The latter course carried additional risks. Defensive shots brought few runs and could carry far enough to be caught by the fielders on the leg side; pull and hook shots could be caught on the edge of the field where two men were usually placed for such a shot.\n\nBodyline bowling was intimidatory, and was largely designed as an attempt to curb the prolific scoring of Donald Bradman, although other prolific Australian batsmen such as Bill Woodfull, Bill Ponsford and Alan Kippax were also targeted.\n\nSeveral different terms were used to describe this style of bowling before the name \"bodyline\" was used. Among the first to use it was the writer and former Australian Test cricketer Jack Worrall; in the match between the English team and an Australian XI, when bodyline was first used in full, he referred to \"half-pitched slingers on the body line\" and first used it in print after the first Test. Other writers used a similar phrase around this time, but the first use of \"bodyline\" in print seems to have been by the journalist Hugh Buggy in the Melbourne \"Herald\", in his report on the first day's play of the first Test.\n\nIn the 19th century, most cricketers considered it unsportsmanlike to bowl the ball at the leg stump or for batsmen to hit on the leg side. But by the early years of the 20th century, some bowlers, usually slow or medium-paced, used leg theory as a tactic; the ball was aimed outside the line of leg stump and the fielders placed on that side of the field, the object being to test the batsman's patience and force a rash stroke. Two English left-arm bowlers, George Hirst in 1903—04 and Frank Foster in 1911—12, bowled leg theory to packed leg side fields in Test matches in Australia; Warwick Armstrong used it regularly for Australia. In the years immediately before the First World War, several bowlers used leg theory in county cricket.\n\nWhen cricket resumed after the war, few bowlers maintained the tactic, which was unpopular with spectators owing to its negativity. Fred Root, the Worcestershire bowler, used it regularly and with considerable success in county cricket. Root later defended the use of leg theory—and Bodyline—observing that when bowlers bowled outside off stump, the batsmen were able to let the ball pass them without playing a shot.\n\nSome fast bowlers experimented with leg theory prior to 1932, sometimes accompanying the tactic with short-pitched bowling. In 1925, Australian Jack Scott first bowled a form of what would later have been called bodyline in a state match for New South Wales; his captain Herbie Collins disliked it and would not let him use it again. Other Australian captains were less particular, including Vic Richardson who let Scott use those tactics when he moved to South Australia. He repeated them against the MCC in 1928–29. In 1927, in a Test trial match, \"Nobby\" Clark bowled short to a leg-trap (a cluster of fielders placed close on the leg side). He was representing England in a side captained by Douglas Jardine. In 1928–29, Harry Alexander bowled fast leg theory at an England team, and Harold Larwood briefly used a similar tactic on that same tour in two Test matches. Freddie Calthorpe, the England captain, criticised Learie Constantine's use of short-pitched bowling to a leg side field in a Test match in 1930; one such ball struck Andy Sandham, but Constantine only reverted to more conventional tactics after a complaint from the England team.\n\nThe Australian cricket team toured England in 1930. Australia won the five-Test series 2–1, and Donald Bradman scored 974 runs at a batting average of 139.14, an aggregate record that still stands in 2018. By the time of the next Ashes series of 1932–33, Bradman's average hovered around 100, approximately twice that of all other world-class batsmen. The English cricket authorities felt that new tactics would be required to prevent Bradman being even more successful on Australian pitches; some critics believed that Bradman could be dismissed by leg-spin as Walter Robins and Ian Peebles had supposedly caused him problems; two leg-spinners were included in the English touring party of 1932–33.\n\nGradually, the idea developed that Bradman was vulnerable to pace bowling. In the final Test of the 1930 Ashes series, while he was batting, the pitch became briefly difficult following rain. Bradman was seen to be uncomfortable facing deliveries which bounced higher than usual at a faster pace, being seen to step back out of the line of the ball. Former England player and Surrey captain Percy Fender was one who noticed, and the incident was much discussed by cricketers. Given that Bradman scored 232, it was not initially thought that a way to curb his prodigious scoring had been found. When Douglas Jardine later saw film footage of the Oval incident and noticed Bradman's discomfort, according to his daughter he shouted, \"I've got it! He's yellow!\" The theory of Bradman's vulnerability developed when Fender received correspondence from Australia in 1932, describing how Australian batsmen were increasingly moving across the stumps towards the off side to play the ball on the on side. Fender showed these letters to Jardine when it became clear that he was to captain the English team in Australia during the 1932–33 tour, and he also discussed Bradman's discomfort at the Oval. It was also known in England that Bradman was dismissed for a four-ball duck by fast bowler Eddie Gilbert, and looked very uncomfortable. Bradman had also appeared uncomfortable against the pace of Sandy Bell in his innings of 299 not out at the Adelaide Oval in South Africa's tour of Australia earlier in 1932, when the desperate bowler decided to bowl short to him, and fellow South African Herbie Taylor, according to Jack Fingleton, may have mentioned this to English cricketers in 1932. Fender felt Bradman might be vulnerable to fast, short-pitched deliveries on the line of leg stump. Jardine felt that Bradman was afraid to stand his ground against intimidatory bowling, citing instances in 1930 when he shuffled about, contrary to orthodox batting technique.\n\nJardine's first experience against Australia came when he scored an unbeaten 96 to secure a draw against the 1921 Australian touring side for Oxford University. The tourists were criticised in the press for not allowing Jardine to reach his hundred, but had tried to help him with some easy bowling. There has been speculation that this incident helped develop Jardine's antipathy towards Australians, although Jardine's biographer Christopher Douglas denies this. Jardine's attitude towards Australia hardened after he toured the country in 1928–29. When he scored three consecutive hundreds in the early games, he was frequently jeered by the crowd for slow play; the Australian spectators took an increasing dislike to him, mainly for his superior attitude and bearing, his awkward fielding, and particularly his choice of headwear—a Harlequin cap that was given to successful Oxford cricketers. Although Jardine may simply have worn the cap out of superstition, it conveyed a negative impression to the spectators; his general demeanour drew one comment of \"Where's the butler to carry the bat for you?\" By this stage Jardine had developed an intense dislike for Australian crowds. During his third century at the start of the tour, during a period of abuse from the spectators, he observed to Hunter Hendry that \"All Australians are uneducated, and an unruly mob\". After the innings, when teammate Patsy Hendren remarked that the Australian crowds did not like Jardine, he replied \"It's fucking mutual\". During the tour, Jardine fielded next to the crowd on the boundary. There, he was roundly abused and mocked for his awkward fielding, particularly when chasing the ball. On one occasion, he spat towards the crowd while fielding on the boundary as he changed position for the final time.\n\nJardine was appointed captain of England for the 1931 season, replacing Percy Chapman who had led the team in 1930. He defeated New Zealand in his first series, but opinion was divided as to how effective he had been. The following season, he led England again and was appointed to lead the team to tour Australia for the 1932–33 Ashes series. A meeting was arranged between Jardine, Nottinghamshire captain Arthur Carr and his two fast bowlers Harold Larwood and Bill Voce at London's Piccadilly Hotel to discuss a plan to combat Bradman. Jardine asked Larwood and Voce if they could bowl on leg stump and make the ball rise into the body of the batsman. The bowlers agreed they could, and that it might prove effective. Jardine also visited Frank Foster to discuss his field-placing in Australia in 1911–12.\n\nLarwood and Voce practised the plan over the remainder of the 1932 season with varying but increasing success and several injuries to batsmen. Ken Farnes experimented with short-pitched, leg-theory bowling but was not selected for the tour. Bill Bowes also used short-pitched bowling, notably against Jack Hobbs.\n\nThe England team which toured Australia in 1932–33 contained four fast bowlers and a few medium pacers; such a heavy concentration on pace was unusual at the time, and drew comment from the Australian press and players, including Bradman. On the journey, Jardine instructed his team on how to approach the tour and discussed tactics with several players, including Larwood; at this stage, he seems to have settled on leg theory, if not full bodyline, as his main tactic. Some players later reported that he told them to hate the Australians in order to defeat them, while instructing them to refer to Bradman as \"the little bastard.\" Upon arrival, Jardine quickly alienated the press and crowds through his manner and approach.\n\nIn the early matches, although there were instances of the English bowlers pitching the ball short and causing problems with their pace, full bodyline tactics were not used. There had been little unusual about the English bowling except the number of fast bowlers. Larwood and Voce were given a light workload in the early matches by Jardine. The English tactics changed in a game against an Australian XI team at Melbourne in mid-November, when full bodyline tactics were deployed for the first time. Jardine had left himself out of the English side, which was led instead by Bob Wyatt who later wrote that the team experimented with a diluted form of bodyline bowling. He reported to Jardine that Bradman, who was playing for the opposition, seemed uncomfortable against the bowling tactics of Larwood, Voce and Bowes. The crowd, press and Australian players were shocked by what they experienced and believed that the bowlers were targeting the batsmen's heads. Bradman adopted unorthodox tactics—ducking, weaving and moving around the crease—which did not meet with universal approval from Australians and he scored just 36 and 13 in the match.\n\nThe tactic continued to be used in the next game by Voce (Larwood and Bowes did not play in this game), against New South Wales, for whom Jack Fingleton made a century and received several blows in the process. Bradman again failed twice, and had scored just 103 runs in six innings against the touring team; many Australian fans were now worried by Bradman's form. Meanwhile, Jardine wrote to tell Fender that his information about the Australian batting technique was correct and that it meant he was having to move more and more fielders onto the leg side: \"if this goes on I shall have to move the whole bloody lot to the leg side.\"\n\nThe Australian press were shocked and criticised the hostility of Larwood in particular. Some former Australian players joined the criticism, saying the tactics were ethically wrong. But at this stage, not everyone was opposed, and the Australian Board of Control believed the English team had bowled fairly. On the other hand, Jardine increasingly came into disagreement with tour manager Warner over bodyline as the tour progressed. Warner hated bodyline but would not speak out against it. He was accused of hypocrisy for not taking a stand on either side, particularly after expressing sentiments at the start of the tour that cricket \"has become a synonym for all that is true and honest. To say 'that is not cricket' implies something underhand, something not in keeping with the best ideals ... all who love it as players, as officials or spectators must be careful lest anything they do should do it harm.\"\n\nBradman missed the first Test at Sydney, worn out by constant cricket and the ongoing argument with the Board of Control. Jardine later wrote that the real reason was that the batsman had suffered a nervous breakdown. The English bowlers used Bodyline intermittently in the first match, to the crowd's vocal displeasure, and the Australians lost the game by ten wickets. Larwood was particularly successful, returning match figures of ten wickets for 124 runs. One of the English bowlers, Gubby Allen, refused to bowl with fielders on the leg side, clashing with Jardine over these tactics. The only Australian batsman to make an impact was Stan McCabe, who hooked and pulled everything aimed at his upper body, to score 187 not out in four hours from 233 deliveries. Behind the scenes, administrators began to express concerns to each other. Yet the English tactics still did not earn universal disapproval; former Australian captain Monty Noble praised the English bowling.\n\nMeanwhile, Woodfull was being encouraged to retaliate to the short-pitched English attack, not least by members of his own side such as Vic Richardson, or to include pace bowlers such as Eddie Gilbert or Laurie Nash to match the aggression of the opposition. But Woodfull refused to consider doing so. He had to wait until minutes before the game before he was confirmed as captain by the selectors.\n\nFor the second Test, Bradman returned to the team after his newspaper employers released him from his contract. England continued to use bodyline and Bradman was dismissed by his first ball in the first innings. In the second innings, against the full Bodyline attack, he scored an unbeaten century which helped Australia to win the match and level the series at one match each. Critics began to believe bodyline was not quite the threat that had been perceived and Bradman's reputation, which had suffered slightly with his earlier failures, was restored. However, the pitch was slightly slower than others in the series, and Larwood was suffering from problems with his boots which reduced his effectiveness.\n\nThe controversy reached its peak during the Third Test at Adelaide. On the second day, a Saturday, before a crowd of 50,962 spectators, Australia bowled out England who had batted through the first day. In the third over of the Australian innings, Larwood bowled to Woodfull. The fifth ball narrowly missed Woodfull's head and the final ball, delivered short on the line of middle stump, struck Woodfull over the heart. The batsman dropped his bat and staggered away holding his chest, bent over in pain. The England players surrounded Woodfull to offer sympathy but the crowd began to protest noisily. Jardine called to Larwood: \"Well bowled, Harold!\" Although the comment was aimed at unnerving Bradman, who was also batting at the time, Woodfull was appalled. Play resumed after a brief delay, once it was certain the Australian captain was fit to carry on, and since Larwood's over had ended, Woodfull did not have to face the bowling of Allen in the next over. However, when Larwood was ready to bowl at Woodfull again, play was halted once more when the fielders were moved into Bodyline positions, causing the crowd to protest and call abuse at the England team. Subsequently, Jardine claimed that Larwood requested a field change, Larwood said that Jardine had done so. Many commentators condemned the alteration of the field as unsporting, and the angry spectators became extremely volatile. Jardine, although writing that Woodfull could have retired hurt if he was unfit, later expressed his regret at making the field change at that moment. The fury of the crowd was such that a riot may have occurred had another incident taken place and several writers suggested that the anger of the spectators was the culmination of feelings built up over the two months that bodyline had developed.\n\nDuring the over, another rising Larwood delivery knocked the bat out of Woodfull's hands. He batted for 89 minutes, being hit a few more times before Allen bowled him for 22. Later in the day, Pelham Warner, one of the England managers, visited the Australian dressing room. He expressed sympathy to Woodfull but was surprised by the Australian's response. According to Warner, Woodfull replied, \"I don't want to see you, Mr Warner. There are two teams out there. One is trying to play cricket and the other is not.\" Fingleton wrote that Woodfull had added, \"This game is too good to be spoilt. It is time some people got out of it.\" Woodfull was usually dignified and quietly spoken, making his reaction surprising to Warner and others present. Warner was so shaken that he was found in tears later that day in his hotel room.\n\nThere was no play on the following day, Sunday being a rest day, but on Monday morning, the exchange between Warner and Woodfull was reported in several Australian newspapers. The players and officials were horrified that a sensitive private exchange had been reported to the press. Leaks to the press were practically unknown in 1933. David Frith notes that discretion and respect were highly prized and such a leak was \"regarded as a moral offence of the first order.\" Woodfull made it clear that he severely disapproved of the leak, and later wrote that he \"always expected cricketers to do the right thing by their team-mates.\" As the only full-time journalist in the Australian team, suspicion immediately fell on Fingleton, although as soon as the story was published, he told Woodfull he was not responsible. Warner offered Larwood a reward of one pound if he could dismiss Fingleton in the second innings; Larwood obliged by bowling him for a duck. Fingleton later claimed that Sydney Sun reporter Claude Corbett had received the information from Bradman; for the rest of their lives, Fingleton and Bradman made claim and counter-claim that the other man was responsible for the leak.\nThe following day, as Australia faced a large deficit on the first innings, Bert Oldfield played a long innings in support of Bill Ponsford, who scored 85. In the course of the innings, the English bowlers used bodyline against him, and he faced several short-pitched deliveries but took several fours from Larwood to move to 41. Having just conceded a four, Larwood bowled fractionally shorter and slightly slower. Oldfield attempted to hook but lost sight of the ball and edged it onto his temple; the ball fractured his skull. Oldfield staggered away and fell to his knees and play stopped as Woodfull came onto the pitch and the angry crowd jeered and shouted, once more reaching the point where a riot seemed likely. Several English players thought about arming themselves with stumps should the crowd come onto the field. The ball which injured Oldfield was bowled to a conventional, non-bodyline field; Larwood immediately apologised but Oldfield said that it was his own fault before he was helped back to the dressing room and play continued. Jardine later secretly sent a telegram of sympathy to Oldfield's wife and arranged for presents to be given to his young daughters.\n\nAt the end of the fourth day's play of the third Test match, the Australian Board of Control sent a cable to the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), cricket's ruling body and the club that selected the England team, in London:\n\nNot all Australians, including the press and players, believed that the cable should have been sent, particularly immediately following a heavy defeat. The suggestion of unsportsmanlike behaviour was deeply resented by the MCC, and was one of the worst accusations that could have been levelled at the team at the time. Additionally, members of the MCC believed that the Australians had over-reacted to the English bowling. The MCC took some time to draft a reply:\n\nAt this point, the remainder of the series was under threat. Jardine was shaken by the events and by the hostile reactions to his team. Stories appeared in the press, possibly leaked by the disenchanted Nawab of Pataudi, about fights and arguments between the England players. Jardine offered to stop using bodyline if the team did not support him, but after a private meeting (not attended by Jardine or either of the team managers) the players released a statement fully supporting the captain and his tactics. Even so, Jardine would not have played in the fourth Test without the withdrawal of the unsportsmanlike accusation.\n\nThe Australian Board met to draft a reply cable, which was sent on 30 January, indicating that they wished the series to continue and offering to postpone consideration of the fairness of bodyline bowling until after the series. The MCC's reply, on 2 February, suggested that continuing the series would be impossible unless the accusation of unsporting behaviour was withdrawn.\n\nThe situation escalated into a diplomatic incident. Figures high up in both the British and Australian government saw bodyline as potentially fracturing an international relationship that needed to remain strong. The Governor of South Australia, Alexander Hore-Ruthven, who was in England at the time, expressed his concern to British Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs James Henry Thomas that this would cause a significant impact on trade between the nations. The standoff was settled when the Australian prime minister, Joseph Lyons, met with members of the Australian Board and outlined to them the severe economic hardships that could be caused in Australia if the British public boycotted Australian trade. Following considerable discussion and debate in the English and Australian press, the Australian Board sent a cable to the MCC which, while maintaining its opposition to bodyline bowling, stated \"We do not regard the sportsmanship of your team as being in question\". Even so, correspondence between the Australian Board and the MCC continued for almost a year.\n\nVoce missed the fourth Test of the series, being replaced by a leg spinner, Tommy Mitchell. Larwood continued to use bodyline, but he was the only bowler in the team using the tactic; even so, he used it less frequently than usual and seemed less effective in high temperatures and humidity. England won the game by eight wickets, thanks in part to an innings of 83 by Eddie Paynter who had been admitted to hospital with tonsillitis but left in order to bat when England were struggling in their innings. Voce returned for the final Test, but neither he nor Allen were fully fit, and despite the use of bodyline tactics, Australia scored 435 at a rapid pace, aided by several dropped catches. Australia included a fast bowler for this final game, Harry Alexander who bowled some short deliveries but was not allowed to use many fielders on the leg side by his captain, Woodfull. England built a lead of 19 but their tactics in Australia's second innings were disrupted when Larwood left the field with an injured foot; Hedley Verity, a spinner, claimed five wickets to bowl Australia out; England won by eight wickets and won the series by four Tests to one.\n\nBodyline continued to be bowled occasionally in the 1933 English season—most notably by Nottinghamshire, who had Carr, Voce and Larwood in their team. This gave the English crowds their first chance to see what all the fuss was about. Ken Farnes, the Cambridge University fast bowler, also bowled it in the University Match, hitting a few Oxford batsmen.\n\nJardine himself had to face bodyline bowling in a Test match. The West Indian cricket team toured England in 1933, and, in the second Test at Old Trafford, Jackie Grant, their captain, decided to try bodyline. He had a couple of fast bowlers, Manny Martindale and Learie Constantine. Facing bodyline tactics for the first time, England first suffered, falling to 134 for 4, with Wally Hammond being hit on the chin, though he recovered to continue his innings. Then Jardine himself faced Martindale and Constantine. Jardine never flinched. With Les Ames finding himself in difficulties, Jardine said, \"You get yourself down this end, Les. I'll take care of this bloody nonsense.\" He played right back to the bouncers, standing on tiptoe, and played them with a dead bat, sometimes playing the ball one handed for more control. While the Old Trafford pitch was not as suited to bodyline as the hard Australian wickets, Martindale did take 5 for 73, but Constantine only took 1 for 55. Jardine himself made 127, his only Test century. In the West Indian second innings, Clark bowled bodyline back to the West Indians, taking 2 for 64. The match in the end was drawn but played a large part in turning English opinion against bodyline. \"The Times\" used the word bodyline, without using inverted commas or using the qualification \"so-called\", for the first time. \"Wisden\" also said that \"most of those watching it for the first time must have come to the conclusion that, while strictly within the law, it was not nice.\"\n\nIn 1934, Bill Woodfull led Australia back to England on a tour that had been under a cloud after the tempestuous cricket diplomacy of the previous bodyline series. Jardine had retired from International cricket in early 1934 after captaining a fraught tour of India and under England's new captain, Bob Wyatt, agreements were put in place so that bodyline would not be used. However, there were occasions when the Australians felt that their hosts had crossed the mark with tactics resembling bodyline.\n\nIn a match between the Australians and Nottinghamshire, Voce, one of the bodyline practitioners of 1932–33, employed the strategy with the wicket-keeper standing to the leg side and took 8/66. In the second innings, Voce repeated the tactic late in the day, in fading light against Woodfull and Bill Brown. Of his 12 balls, 11 were no lower than head height. Woodfull told the Nottinghamshire administrators that, if Voce's leg-side bowling was repeated, his men would leave the field and return to London. He further said that Australia would not return to the country in the future. The following day, Voce was absent, ostensibly due to a leg injury. Already angered by the absence of Larwood, the Nottinghamshire faithful heckled the Australians all day. Australia had previously and privately complained that some pacemen had strayed past the agreement in the Tests.\n\nAs a direct consequence of the 1932–33 tour, the MCC introduced a new rule to the laws of cricket for the 1935 English cricket season. Originally, the MCC hoped that captains would ensure that the game was played in the correct spirit, and passed a resolution that bodyline bowling would breach this spirit. When this proved to be insufficient, the MCC passed a law that \"direct attack\" bowling was unfair and became the responsibility of the umpires to identify and stop. In 1957, the laws were altered to prevent more than two fielders standing behind square on the leg side; the intention was to prevent negative bowling tactics whereby off spinners and slow inswing bowlers aimed at the leg stump of batsmen with fielders concentrated on the leg side. However, an indirect effect was to make bodyline fields impossible to implement.\n\nLater law changes, under the heading of \"Intimidatory Short Pitched Bowling\", also restricted the number of \"bouncers\" which may be bowled in an over. Nevertheless, the tactic of intimidating the batsman is still used to an extent that would have been shocking in 1933, although it is less dangerous now because today's players wear helmets and generally far more protective gear. The West Indies teams of the 1980s, who regularly fielded a bowling attack comprising some of the best fast bowlers in cricket history, were perhaps the most feared exponents.\n\nThe English players and management were consistent in referring to their tactic as \"fast leg theory\" considering it to be a variant of the established and unobjectionable leg theory tactic. The inflammatory term \"bodyline\" was coined and perpetuated by the Australian press (see below). English writers used the term \"fast leg theory\". The terminology reflected differences in understanding, as neither the English public nor the Board of the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC)—the governing body of English cricket—could understand why the Australians were complaining about what they perceived as a commonly used tactic. Some concluded that the Australian cricket authorities and public were sore losers. Of the four fast bowlers in the tour party, Gubby Allen was a voice of dissent in the English camp, refusing to bowl short on the leg side, and writing several letters home to England critical of Jardine, although he did not express this in public in Australia. A number of other players, while maintaining a united front in public, also deplored bodyline in private. The amateurs Bob Wyatt (the vice-captain), Freddie Brown and the Nawab of Pataudi opposed it, as did Wally Hammond and Les Ames among the professionals.\n\nDuring the season, Woodfull's physical courage, stoic and dignified leadership won him many admirers. He flatly refused to employ retaliatory tactics and did not publicly complain even though he and his men were repeatedly hit.\n\nJardine however insisted his tactic was not designed to cause injury and that he was leading his team in a sportsmanlike and gentlemanly manner, arguing that it was up to the Australian batsmen to play their way out of trouble.\n\nIt was subsequently revealed that several of the players had private reservations, but they did not express them publicly at the time.\n\nFollowing the 1932–33 series, several authors, including many of the players involved, released books expressing various points of view about bodyline. Many argued that it was a scourge on cricket and must be stamped out, while some did not see what all the fuss was about. The series has been described as the most controversial period in Australian cricket history, and voted the most important Australian moment by a panel of Australian cricket identities. The MCC asked Harold Larwood to sign an apology to them for his bowling in Australia, making his selection for England again conditional upon it. Larwood was furious at the notion, pointing out that he had been following orders from his upper-class captain, and that was where any blame should lie. Larwood refused, never played for England again, and became vilified in his own country. Douglas Jardine always defended his tactics and in the book he wrote about the tour, \"In Quest of the Ashes\", described allegations that the England bowlers directed their attack with the intention of causing physical harm as stupid and patently untruthful. The immediate effect of the law change which banned bodyline in 1935 was to make commentators and spectators sensitive to the use of short-pitched bowling; bouncers became exceedingly rare and bowlers who delivered them were practically ostracised. This attitude ended after the Second World War, and among the first teams to make extensive use of short-pitched bowling was the Australian team captained by Bradman between 1946 and 1948. Other teams soon followed.\n\nOutside the sport, there were significant consequences for Anglo-Australian relations, which remained strained until the outbreak of World War II made cooperation paramount. Business between the two countries was adversely affected as citizens of each country avoided goods manufactured in the other. Australian commerce also suffered in British colonies in Asia: the \"North China Daily News\" published a pro-bodyline editorial, denouncing Australians as sore losers. An Australian journalist reported that several business deals in Hong Kong and Shanghai were lost by Australians because of local reactions. English immigrants in Australia found themselves shunned and persecuted by locals, and Australian visitors to England were treated similarly. In 1934–35 a statue of Prince Albert in Sydney was vandalised, with an ear being knocked off and the word \"BODYLINE\" painted on it. Both before and after World War II, numerous satirical cartoons and comedy skits were written, mostly in Australia, based on events of the bodyline tour. Generally, they poked fun at the English.\n\nIn 1984, Australia's Network Ten produced a television mini-series titled \"Bodyline\", dramatising the events of the 1932–33 English tour of Australia. It starred Gary Sweet as Don Bradman, Hugo Weaving as Douglas Jardine, Jim Holt as Harold Larwood, Rhys McConnochie as Pelham Warner, and Frank Thring as Jardine's mentor Lord Harris. The series took some liberties with historical accuracy for the sake of drama, including a depiction of angry Australian fans burning a British flag at the Sydney Cricket Ground, an event which was never documented. Larwood, having emigrated to Australia in 1950, received several threatening and obscene phone calls after the series aired. The series was widely and strongly attacked by the surviving players for its inaccuracy and sensationalism.\n\nTo this day, the bodyline tour remains one of the most significant events in the history of cricket, and strong in the consciousness of many cricket followers. In a poll of cricket journalists, commentators, and players in 2004, the bodyline tour was ranked the most important event in cricket history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8822200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8822200", "title": "Carlisle Racecourse", "text": "Carlisle Racecourse\n\nCarlisle Racecourse is a thoroughbred horse racing venue located in the village of Blackwell near Carlisle in Cumbria, England. The course has been on its present site since 1904, when it moved there from another location nearer to Carlisle. The course is 1 mile and 4 furlongs (2.41 km) in circumference, right-handed, and hosts flat racing in the summer and National Hunt racing over the winter months. The last half mile is up a steep incline. The going can get very heavy in the winter.\n\nHistory was made on 2 July 1929 when the newly formed Totalisator Board operated their pool betting system for the first time on a British racecourse at Carlisle.\n\nCarlisle is home to the Carlisle Bell, one of the oldest horse races in existence. Carlisle also had a King's Plate – a race for 5-year-old horses in 3-mile heats – instigated by George III in 1763.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14430250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14430250", "title": "Chadongcha Sports Club", "text": "Chadongcha Sports Club\n\nJadongcha Sports Club (Chosŏn'gŭl: 자동차체육단, \"Chadongch'a ch'eyuktan\"; Hanja: 自動車體育團) is a North Korean football club based in Pyongyang, North Korea playing in the DPR Korea League. The club is affiliated with the North Korean Ministry of Land and Maritime Transport.\n"}
{"id": "8705124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8705124", "title": "Cheating in chess", "text": "Cheating in chess\n\nCheating in chess refers to a deliberate violation of the rules of chess or other unethical behaviour that is intended to give an unfair advantage to a player or team. Cheating can occur in many forms and can take place before, during, or after a game. Commonly cited instances of cheating include: collusion with spectators or other players, use of chess engines, rating manipulation, and violations of the touch-move rule. Many suspiciously motivated practices are not comprehensively covered by the rules of chess. On ethical or moral grounds only, such practices may be judged by some as acceptable, and by others as cheating.\n\nEven if an arguably unethical action is not covered explicitly by the rules, article 11.1 of the FIDE laws of chess states: \"The players shall take no action that will bring the game of chess into disrepute.\" For example, while deliberately sneaking a captured piece back onto the board may be construed as an illegal move that is sanctioned by a time bonus to the opponent and a reinstatement of the last legal position, the rule forbidding actions that bring chess into disrepute may also be invoked to hand down a more severe sanction such as the loss of the game.\n\nCheating at chess is almost as old as the game itself, and may even have caused chess-related deaths. According to one legend, a dispute over cheating at chess led King Canute to murder a Danish nobleman. One of the most anthologized chess stories is \"Slippery Elm\" (1929) by Percival Wilde, which involves a ruse to allow a weak player to beat a much stronger one, using messages passed on slippery-elm throat lozenges. Television shows have engaged the plot of cheating in chess, including episodes of \"\" and \"Cheers\". In televised shows based on humourist Tenali Rama (a real-life personality who lived under king Krishnadeva Raya, ruler of Vijaynagar during its most prosperous period), a loud-mouthed chess \"unbeatable champion\" (who mostly depends on winning by cheating) takes advantage of the emperor's sleep due to boredom and starts shouting along with followers (who have accompanied him from an opponent kingdom), successfully convincing the assembly that he has won.\n\nIn Satyajit Ray's Shatranj ke Khiladi (one of only two Hindi films he made – both based on short-stories by Premchand), Mirja Sajjad Ali, fed-up by his opponent's childish playing habits, has to make rules that only the piece intended to be played should be touched, and taking more than five minutes to move should simply mean defeat. (As chess clocks are \"still\" practically unknown even in modern India, it was out of question during the middle of 19th century — the period in which the film is set.)\n\nIn contrast to the modern methods of cheating by playing moves calculated by machines, in the 18th and 19th centuries, the public were hoaxed by the opposite deception in which machines played moves of hidden humans. The first and most famous of the chess automaton hoaxes was The Turk (1770), followed by Ajeeb (1868), and Mephisto (1886).\n\nOver the years, there have been many accusations of collusion, either of players deliberately losing (often to help a friend or teammate get a title norm), or of players agreeing to draws to help both players in a tournament. One of the earliest evidences is with the Fifth American Chess Congress in 1880, when Preston Ware accused James Grundy of reneging on a deal to draw the game, with Grundy instead trying to play for a win. A newspaper article contemporary to the event stated, \"Ware’s avowal of his right to sell a game in a tourney was a novelty in chess ethics ... Ware’s veracity has not been questioned, only his obliquity of moral vision ...\" Six prior allegations of similar collusion and bribery, including another against Ware, were listed from 1876 to 1880 in that article on the Ware-Grundy affair, which was published in the \"Brooklyn Eagle\" on February 8, 1880. More recently, researchers at Washington University in St. Louis have claimed, based on their analysis of statistical tests of match records against economic models, that Soviet chess masters may have colluded in world chess championships held from 1940 to 1964. The Washington University study argues from the researchers' statistical findings that Soviet players may have agreed to draws between themselves to improve their standings.\n\nOpinions differ over how effective collusion may be. For example, if a leading player draws his game, it may allow his rivals to gain ground on him by winning their games. The most infamous alleged instance, the 1962 Candidates' Tournament, is discussed further at the \"World Chess Championship 1963\" article.\n\nIn 2011, IM Greg Shahade wrote that \"prearrangement of results is extremely commonplace, even at the highest levels of chess. This especially holds true for draws... There is a bit of a code of silence at the top levels of chess.\" The subject had been partially broached (in the USA context) by Alex Yermolinsky a few years earlier, saying \"It's no secret how people act when facing a last-round situation when a draw gives no prize ... People will just dump games, period.\" Concerning an incident involving 2006 US Championship qualification, Shahade blamed the Swiss system for creating perverse incentives. Frederic Friedel reported that the PCA had considered running a series of open tournaments in 1990s, but for similar reasons given by John Nunn ultimately declined, saying that deliberately losing games was \"very real in the many open tournaments that are staged all over the world.\"\n\nIn chess, the \"touch-move\" rule states that if a player (whose turn it is to move) touches one of his pieces, it must be moved if it has a legal move. In addition, if a piece is picked up and released on another square, the move must stand if it is a legal move. If an opponent's piece is touched, it must be captured if it is legal to do so. These rules are often difficult to enforce because the only witnesses are the two players themselves. Nevertheless, violations of these rules are considered to be cheating.\n\nIn one famous instance, Garry Kasparov changed his move against Judit Polgár in 1994 after momentarily letting go of a piece. Kasparov went on to win the game. The tournament officials had video records proving that his hand left the piece, but refused to release the evidence. A factor counting against Polgár was that she waited a whole day before complaining, and such claims must be made during the game. The videotape revealed that Kasparov did let go of the piece for one-quarter of a second. Cognitive psychologist Robert Solso stated that it is too short a time to make a conscious decision.\n\nAnother famous incident occurred in a game between Milan Matulović and István Bilek at the Sousse Interzonal in 1967. Matulović played a losing move but then took it back after saying \"J'adoube\" (\"I adjust\"—which should be announced \"before\" adjusting pieces on their square). His opponent complained to the arbiter but the modified move was allowed to stand. This incident earned Matulović the nickname \"J'adoubović\".\n\nThe 2003 European Championship saw a \"takeback game\" between Zurab Azmaiparashvili and Vladimir Malakhov, who eventually finished first and second in the event. To quote the book \"Smart Chip\" by Genna Sosonko:\nBoth grandmasters were fighting for the lead, and the encounter had huge sporting significance. In an ending that was favourable to him, Azmai[parashvili] picked up the bishop, intending to make a move with it instead of first exchanging rooks. Malakhov recalled: \"Seeing that the rooks were still on the board, he said something like, \"Oh, first the exchange, of course.\" put his bishop back, took my rook, and the game continued. I don't know what should have been done differently in this situation—in Azmai's place, some might have resigned immediately, and in my place, some would have demanded that he make a move with his bishop but I didn't want to ruin the logical development of the duel, so I didn't object when Azmai made a different move: the mistake was obviously nothing to do with chess! When we signed the score sheets, Azmai suggested to me that we consider the game a draw. After the game I was left with an unpleasant aftertaste, but that was due mainly to my own play.\"\n\nTechnology has been used by chess cheats in several ways. Perhaps the most common way is to use a chess program while playing chess remotely, e.g., on the Internet. Another type of cheating, with the aim of boosting one's rating on an Internet chess site, is to sign on with a different IP address and user name (a form of sockpuppetry) to play and lose against themselves. Electronic communication with an accomplice during face-to-face competitive chess is another reported type of cheating. Games can be analyzed after the fact to give a probabilistic determination on whether a player received surreptitious help.\n\nDue to the great multiplication of technological cheating incidents, the following examples concentrate only on those that are either at a high level, or are of historical significance.\n\n\n In the sixth round a player came to me and said he suspected his opponent, W.S. from L., was using illicit aids during the game. He often left the board for protracted periods of time to go to the toilet, even when (especially when) it was his turn to play. He had done this in earlier rounds against other players as well. I watched W.S. and noticed that he played a number of moves very rapidly and then disappeared in the toilet. I followed him and could hear no sound coming from the stall. I looked under the door and saw that his feet were pointing sideways, so that he could not have been using the toilet. So I entered the neighbouring stall, stood on the toilet bowl and looked over the dividing wall. I saw W.S. standing there with a handheld PC which displayed a running chess program. He was using a stylus to operate it. I immediately disqualified the player. When confronted he claimed that he was only checking his emails, so I asked him to show me the computer, which he refused to do. There are witnesses for my investigation in the toilet, and we will ask the chess federation of our state to ban the player from playing in other tournaments.\n\n\nSince the introduction of Elo ratings in the 1960s, a number of attempts have been made to manipulate the rating system, either to deliberately inflate one's rating or to disguise one's strength by deliberately losing rating points.\n\nSandbagging involves deliberately losing rated games in order to lower one's rating so that one is eligible to enter the lower rated section of a tournament with substantial prize money. This is most common in the United States, where the prize money for large open tournaments can be over $10,000, even in the lower rated sections. Sandbagging is very difficult to detect and prove, so USCF has included minimum ratings based on previous ratings or money winnings to minimize the effect.\n\nA limited pool of players who rarely or never play against players from outside of that pool can cause distortions in the Elo rating system, especially if one or more of the players is significantly stronger than the others, or if the results are deliberately manipulated.\n\nClaude Bloodgood was accused of manipulating the USCF rating system in this way; at his peak in 1996 his USCF rating was in excess of 2700, the second highest in the country at the time. As a long-term prison inmate, he was necessarily restricted in the range of opponents available to him. The USCF suspected that he had deliberately inflated the ratings of his opponents; Bloodgood denied this, attributing his inflated rating to a quirk in the rating system resulting from his regularly playing against a limited pool of much weaker players.\n\nThere was widespread reporting of anomalous Burmese (Myanmar) rating movements in the late 1990s, with Milan Novkovic giving an analysis of manipulation in \"Schach\" magazine.\n\nThe most notable international example of ratings manipulation involves Romanian Alexandru Crisan, who allegedly falsified tournament reports to gain a Grandmaster title and was ranked 33rd in the world on the April 2001 FIDE rating list. A committee overseeing the matter recommended his rating be erased and his Grandmaster title revoked. While the Romanian Chess Federation initially favored action against Crisan, eventually he himself became the RCF president and changed the policy, creating such a situation that FIDE intervened to broker a resolution regarding many problems in the RCF, including Crisan's rating. Crisan then was arrested and imprisoned on fraud charges relating to his management of the company Urex Rovinari and disappeared from chess, thus failing to fulfill the conditions of the resolution and so activating the above recommendations regarding title revocation. FIDE did not fully update its online information until August 2015, when all his titles were removed and his rating adjusted downwards to 2132. When writing about the Crisan case, Ian Rogers alleges that Andrei Makarov (at the time a FIDE vice-president and Russian chess federation president) had arranged an IM title for himself through nonexistent tournaments in 1994.\n\nRumors of rigged tournaments are not unheard of in the chess world. For instance, in 2005, FIDE refused to ratify norms from the Alushta (Ukraine) tournaments, claiming that the games did not meet ethical expectations. A number of players involved protested over the matter. \nA different Ukrainian tournament in 2005 was found to be completely fake. Usually the strongest players are not involved in these, as they are more for careerist players to gain title norms or small rating gains, but Zurab Azmaiparashvili was alleged to have rigged the results of the Strumica tournament of 1995 to allow him to reach the chess elite. In 2003, Sveshnikov referred to these high-profile Crisan and Azmaiparashvili incidents as \"open secrets\", at a time when both purported culprits were heavily involved in FIDE politics.\n\nA player with no knowledge of chess can achieve a 50% score in simultaneous chess by replicating the moves made by one of his white opponents in a match against a black opponent, and vice versa; the opponents in effect play each other rather than the giver of the simul. This may be considered cheating in some events such as Basque chess. This can be used against any even number of opponents. Stage magician Derren Brown used the trick against eight leading British chess players in his television show.\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "376533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376533", "title": "Clive Woodward", "text": "Clive Woodward\n\nSir Clive Ronald Woodward (born 6 January 1956) is an English former rugby union player and coach. He was coach of the team from 1997 to 2004, managing them to victory in the 2003 Rugby World Cup. He also coached the 2005 British and Irish Lions tour to New Zealand, losing the test series 3-0 . He is currently a pundit for ITV Sport, working on their coverage of the Six Nations and Rugby World Cup.\n\nWoodward was born in Ely, Cambridgeshire, the son of an RAF pilot. He started school at Corstorphine in Edinburgh and was later sent to the school ship HMS \"Conway\", as his father disapproved of his ambition to play professional football. At \"Conway\", he played rugby union at centre alongside fly-half Iain Duncan Smith, who would later become leader of the Conservative Party. According to Woodward, he was not selected to play for the Welsh Schoolboys side because he was English, but he was good enough to play rugby union for a Welsh school.\n\nAccording to his autobiography, he applied to do a law degree at Durham University, but was turned down even though he was good enough and instead, he found a job at a London bank (NatWest).\nHis first club was Harlequins but he left to go to Loughborough University where he gained a Bachelor of Science degree in sports science followed by a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE). He then played as a centre for Leicester from 1979 to 1985. He made his England debut against on 19 January 1980, as a replacement. England won the Grand Slam in that season, winning all their games. He went on to gain 21 caps for his country, playing his last game on 17 March 1984 against Wales. He was a player on the British Lions' 1980 tour to South Africa and 1983 tour to New Zealand. He was most noted for his centre partnership with fellow Tiger Paul Dodge. Playing for the Barbarians, he also won the Hong Kong Sevens in 1981.\n\nHe returned to the UK in 1990 to start his own IT leasing company and he became coach of the then obscure Henley, who were promoted to the national leagues. After a short but successful spell of coaching at London Irish, he was unable to handle the politics of the club and was forced out. He became assistant coach at Leicester's arch rivals Bath under Andy Robinson, and when Jack Rowell retired as coach of the England team in 1997, Woodward acquired the job.\n\nHe had the job of transforming the England side from the amateur era into the professional one. Having been quoted as requesting that the press judge him on England's performance at the 1999 Rugby World Cup, when they were beaten by South Africa, his job was questioned. Thereafter England steadily improved under Woodward. England were Six Nations champions in 2000 and 2001, and completed the Grand Slam in 2003 with an emphatic 42–6 victory over Ireland in Dublin. England followed up by defeating the All Blacks in New Zealand for the first time since 1973, holding out for a 15–13 win despite being reduced to 13 men in the second half with two forwards in the sin bin. A week later reigning world champions Australia were beaten 25–14 in Melbourne, England's first ever win on Australian soil.\n\nEngland entered the 2003 Rugby World Cup as betting favourites and the number one ranked team in the world. Victories over , , , , and took England to the final, where they faced the hosts and reigning champions . England won 20–17 thanks to a Jonny Wilkinson drop goal in the final seconds of extra time. Woodward was knighted in the 2004 New Year's honours. As of 2016, England are still the only team from the Northern Hemisphere to win the World Cup. From 2000 to 2003, Woodward's England compiled a record of 41 wins from 46 matches, which included a perfect record of 20 wins and no losses at Twickenham and 12 successive wins against the Tri Nations.\n\nThe England squad had to be re-built after the World Cup success, as a number of senior players retired, including captain Martin Johnson, Lawrence Dallaglio and Neil Back. Meanwhile, talismanic fly-half Jonny Wilkinson was sidelined with long-term injuries which would prevent him playing for England again for almost 4 years. England came third in the 2004 Six Nations, losing to Grand Slam winners France and Triple Crown winners Ireland. His last tour as England coach came shortly afterwards, with an ill-fated tour of New Zealand and Australia. England were beaten by New Zealand in two tests, without scoring a single try, going down 36-3 in the first and 36-12 in the second. The team then went to Australia, where they were beaten 51-15.\n\nIn February 2004 he was appointed Head Coach for the 2005 British and Irish Lions tour to New Zealand. The Lions lost the test series 3-0. Woodward's management was criticised by many commentators and players for his initial squad selection, his coaching methods, his handling of the players and the media, his selections on tour - particularly for keeping faith with the England players he knew well - and for not allowing the test team any time to play together before the test series began. He returned from New Zealand with his reputation within rugby severely tarnished.\n\nOn 24 October 2011, Woodward was inducted into the IRB Hall of Fame, alongside all other Rugby World Cup-winning head coaches and captains from the tournament's inception in 1987 through 2007 (minus the previously inducted John Eales).\n\nWoodward's contract with England was due to run until 2007. Following the retirement of key players like Lawrence Dallaglio and Martin Johnson, and finishing third in the 6 Nations after the World Cup success, he found the politics of English rugby difficult to deal with, particularly the Premiership clubs' relations with the England management. Woodward was linked with a switch to football and, although he had denied these rumours, on 1 September 2004, Woodward announced that he would be quitting as England coach.\n\nInitially, a move to Southampton Football Club seemed likely, as Woodward was a friend of chairman Rupert Lowe. Lowe discussed this possibility with the club's board on 2 September 2004. However, in his resignation press conference, Woodward said that his intention was to take the Football Association's Grade Two coaching badges after the 2005 British and Irish Lions tour to New Zealand:\n\nHowever, Woodward continued his move into the Football League in 2005 by becoming Performance Director at Southampton Football Club, without undertaking any coaching at non-league clubs. With no experience of professional football, he again had problems with the politics of the situation, and was widely believed to have had a difficult relationship with the club's then-manager Harry Redknapp. For example, his appointee as head of sports science, Simon Clifford, left the club in November 2005, after only two months, amid resentment from the club's existing staff.\n\nFollowing the departure of Redknapp in December 2005, Woodward was suggested as a possible candidate for the manager's position at the Championship club, despite his lack of experience in the game. He was subsequently appointed Director of Football to work alongside newly appointed Head Coach, George Burley. On 31 August 2006 it was confirmed by Southampton that he was no longer working at the club.\n\nOn 6 September 2006 it was announced that Woodward would be returning to sport as the new director of elite performance for the British Olympic Association. This is a role similar to that for which he was believed to be a candidate at his former employers the Rugby Football Union (Rob Andrew was eventually appointed to the position).\n\nIn 2007, he was appointed to the board of directors of Leicester Tigers as a non-executive director.\n\nOn 6 March 2008, he had the privilege to run with the Olympic torch while going through Russell Square, London.\n\nAt the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing he acted as Deputy Chef de Mission and undertook a review of practices at the games in preparation for 2012 Summer Olympics in London.\n\nIt was announced 4 October 2012, Woodward will leave his post as director of sport at the British Olympic Association after six years.\n\nWoodward released his autobiography, \"Winning!\", in 2004. He writes of the triumph of England in the 2003 Rugby World Cup, the preparations and celebrations, and of his personal life, his playing and coaching career. In \"Winning!\", Woodward refers to Yehuda Shinar as one of the people who helped to turn the team around and who helped them win the World Cup. A biography of him, \"Clive Woodward: the biography\", written by Alison Kervin, was published six months later.\n\nWoodward is an Honorary President of the Wooden Spoon Society, a children's charity that harnesses the support of the rugby world. Woodward played in the annual Gary Player Invitational charity golf tournament to assist golf icon Gary Player raise funds for various children's causes.\n\nClive Woodward is married to Jayne Williams; the couple formerly ran a computer leasing business together. They live near Maidenhead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153425", "title": "Converse (shoe company)", "text": "Converse (shoe company)\n\nConverse is an American shoe company that primarily produces skating shoes and lifestyle brand footwear and apparel. Founded in 1908, it has been a subsidiary of Nike, Inc. since 2003.\n\nDuring World War II, the company shifted its manufacturing from the public, and instead made footwear for the military. It was one of the few producers of athletic shoes and for over a half century the company dominated the American court shoe market. From the 1970s, the company lost its dominant position after other companies presented their own styles.\n\nConverse shoes are distinguished by a number of features, including the company's star insignia, the All Star's rubber sole, smooth rounded toe, and wrap-around strip.\n\nConverse manufactures its products under the Cons, Chuck Taylor All-Star, John Varvatos, and Jack Purcell trade names. In addition to apparel and footwear, the company sells other items through retailers in over 160 countries and through approximately 75 company-owned retail stores across the United States, and employed 2,658 in the U.S. in 2015.\n\nAt age 47, Marquis Mills Converse, who was previously a manager at a footwear manufacturing firm, opened the Converse Rubber Shoe Company in February 1908 in Malden, Massachusetts. The company was a rubber shoe manufacturer, providing winterized rubber soled footwear for men, women, and children. By 1910, Converse was producing shoes daily, but it was not until 1915 that the company began manufacturing athletic shoes.\n\nThe company's catalyst came in 1917 when the Converse All-Star basketball shoe was introduced. Then in 1923, a basketball player named Charles H. \"Chuck\" Taylor walked into Converse complaining of sore feet. Converse gave him a job: he worked as a salesman and ambassador, promoting the shoes around the U.S., and in 1932 Taylor's signature was added to the All-Star patch on the classic, high-topped sneakers. He continued this work until shortly before his death in 1969.\nConverse also customized shoes for the New York Renaissance (the \"Rens\"), the first all–African American professional basketball team. In 1962, center Wilt Chamberlain of the Philadelphia Warriors scored 100 points in an NBA game while wearing a pair of Chucks, taking a 169–147 victory over the New York Knicks in Hershey, Pennsylvania on March 2.\n\nWhen the U.S. entered World War II in 1941, Converse shifted production to manufacturing rubberized footwear, outerwear, and protective suits for the military. The company resumed production of athletic footwear after the war's end. Popular during the 1950s and 1960s, Converse promoted an American image with its Converse Basketball Yearbook. Artist Charles Kerins created cover art that celebrated Converse's role in the lives of high school and college athletes.\nIn the 1970s, Converse purchased the trademark rights to Jack Purcell sneakers from B.F. Goodrich.\n\nConverse lost their monopoly from the 1970s onward, with new competitors, including Puma and Adidas, then Nike, then a decade later Reebok, who introduced new designs to the sports market. Converse found themselves no longer the official shoe of the National Basketball Association (NBA), a title they had relished for many years.\n\nThe chevron and star insignia—a logo that remains on a large portion of Converse footwear other than the All Star—was created by Jim Labadini, an employee.\n\nCanvas-rubber shoes regained popularity in the 1980s as casual footwear, but Converse eventually became over-dependent on the \"All Stars\" brand, whose market collapsed by 1989–1990. By the year 2000, Converse was slipping repeatedly into receivership as debt piled up yearly.\n\nConverse filed for bankruptcy on January 22, 2001. Not too long after, on March 30, its last manufacturing plants in the U.S., closed down, as production fully moved overseas. In April 2001, Footwear Acquisitions, led by Marsden Cason and Bill Simon, purchased the brand from bankruptcy and added industry partners Jack Boys, Jim Stroesser, Lisa Kempa, and David Maddocks to lead the turnaround of America's Original Sports Company.\n\nIn July 2003, Nike paid $309 million to acquire Converse. Nike approached the 1980s revival around 2010 to relaunch the footwear. Nike also expanded the Converse brand to other businesses apart from shoes, much akin to its other brands.\nBy November 2012, Converse had disappeared completely from the NBA, as the last dozen players wearing the brand either left the NBA or switched shoes over a period of a year and a half. Carlos Arroyo went overseas in late 2011, and Maurice Evans last played for the Washington Wizards in April 2012. Nine switched to Nike: Acie Law (who went overseas) in late 2011; JJ Barea and Kirk Hinrich during the 2011–12 season; Luke Harangody and Larry Sanders after the season; Elton Brand, Louis Williams, and Kyle Korver for the 2012–13 season; and Chris Andersen during the season. Udonis Haslem, the last NBA player wearing Converse on the court, followed Miami Heat teammate Dwyane Wade to switch to Li-Ning in late November 2012.\n\nCelebrities who have worn Converse include Snoop Dogg, Kristen Stewart and Rihanna. The growth of Converse as a casual fashion accessory contributed to $1.7 billion in revenue in 2014 and $2 billion in 2015.\n\nIn January 2013, Converse announced plans for a new headquarters building, and moved in April 2015. It was constructed near North Station in downtown Boston, on the Lovejoy Wharf, overlooking the Charles River as part of a major site overhaul and restoration of public waterfront access. The 10-story office building includes a permanent music recording studio for the new \"Converse Rubber Tracks\" project, gym with a separate yoga studio designed in partnership with Nike, and a new retail Flagship Store.\n\nAn improved model of the Chuck Taylor All-Star, the \"Chuck Taylor II\", was announced by company management in July, 2015. The Chuck Taylor II's were released on July 28, 2015. Incorporating Nike technology, it retains the most of outward appearance of the original while employing a modern lightweight lunarlon insole. The notable changes made to the new sneakers are the removal of the wrap around strip, premium canvas with higher quality stitching, and a no slip tongue.\n\nUnder the \"CONS\" name, Converse launched its skateboarding program in 2009 with a team of \"ambassadors\": Kenny Anderson, Anthony Pappalardo, Nick Trapasso, Sammy Baca, Ethan Fowler, Raymond Molinar, and Rune Glifberg.\n\nIn 2012, the company added Jason Jessee and Mike Anderson to its ambassadors team.\n\nIn August 2012, Converse sponsored a skate event at Huntington Beach, California, US. Trapasso, Tom Remillard, Aaron Homoki, Greyson Fletcher, Ben Raemers, Ben Hatchell, Robbie Russo, and Ben Raybourn participated in the competition that was held. Raybourn eventually won the US$20,000 grand prize and Homoki won the US$3,000 Best Trick contest.\n\nAs of July 2014, the CONS skateboard team consisted of original members Anderson, Trapasso, Baca, and Glifberg, while Jessee, Anderson, Julian Davidson, Remillard, Zered Basset, Ben Raemers, Jake Johnson, Eli Reed, Louis Lopez, Sage Elsesser, and Sean Pablo were subsequently added. Bassett filmed a new advertisement that was broadcast online during July 2014, in which he skateboarded through New York City in a newly launched skate shoe version of the Converse Weapon model, the \"CONS Weapon Skate.\"\n\nStarting in July 2008, Converse sent around 180 cease-and-desist letters to over 30 other companies who they claimed were violating the alleged Chuck Taylor All Star trademark and selling so-called look-alike sneakers.\n\nIn October 2014, Converse filed a lawsuit against 30 companies for allegedly infringing on its generic sneaker style's bumper toe, striped midsole and toe cap. The brand argued that companies were violating an alleged common-law trademark by importing sneakers with similar elements. A number of companies settled with Converse and they were dropped from the list.\n\nIn November 2015, Charles Bullock, chief administrative judge at the International Trade Commission, preliminarily ruled that several brands Converse filed against were violating Converse's outsole design trademarks, i.e. the pattern on the bottom of the sole of the shoe. Judge Bullock further ruled that while Skechers \"Twinkle Toes\" brands did share similarities to Converse, \"Twinkle Toes\" were different enough and marketed in a way for it not to be mistaken for Chuck Taylor All-Stars. Judge Bullock also ruled that most of the shoes sold by Highline United under the Ash brand did not infringe and that Converse did not have a valid common law mark for its midsole.\n\nOn June 23, 2016, the anniversary of the death of Chuck Taylor, the International Trade Commission ruled that Converse's alleged trade dress for the midsole design of a combined toe cap, toe bumper, and stripe was not entitled to trademark protection under the common law and found invalid Converse's federal trademark registration. This case is currently on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. An oral hearing in that appeal was conducted on February 8, 2018. The decision in that appeal is pending.\n\nIn 1986, Converse released \"The Weapon\" basketball shoe. Manufactured in two color schemes to match the kit colors of basketball teams, it has been available in both high-top and low cut varieties. The unique aspect of this shoe is the leather construction throughout, including the inside heel which is also heavily padded for comfort. Converse re-released \"The Weapon\" classic (which Kobe Bryant wore at least three times in 2002 and Andre Miller wore in 2002 from mid August to early September) several times from 1999 to 2003 and after, \"The Loaded Weapon\" in 2003, \"The Weapon 86\" in 2008 (and the Poorman version in 2009, and the John Varvatos version in 2012), \"The Weapon EVO\" in 2009, and its successor \"The Star Player EVO\" (sometimes reduced to \"The Star Plyr EVO\" or \"The Star Ply EVO\") in 2010.\n\nThe first endorsers of \"The Weapon\" were Larry Bird and Magic Johnson, who were prominently featured in a Converse commercial set in Bird's hometown of French Lick, Indiana in 1985. They were also worn by Axl Rose in the Guns N' Roses music video \"Estranged\".\n\nSeveral special editions of Converse shoes have been made, including DC Comics, Pink Floyd, The Ramones, AC/DC, Sailor Jerry, Metallica, The Clash, Dr. Seuss, Grateful Dead, Ozzy Osbourne, Jimi Hendrix, Miley Cyrus (who helped advertise rainbow designed converse for Pride Month in 2017 and designed the 2018 collection also for pride month in conjunction with her charity Happy Hippie Foundation ), Drew Brophy, Nirvana, Bad Meets Evil, Green Day, Gorillaz, Matt and Kim, Black Sabbath, the Control, green, brown or camouflage edition, Super Mario and Danny Potthoff. Three new designs were created for high tops, inspired by The Who.\n\nAdditionally, Converse have to date made an appearance in over 650 films, appearing in movies such as \"Back to the Future\", \"I, Robot\", \"Grease\" and \"Stand by Me\".\n\nDavid Tennant (playing the Tenth Doctor) wore a variety of Hi-top Converse on science-fiction show \"Doctor Who\", including red and cream versions.\n\nJuly 2018, Converse teamed up the BT21, a millennial pop character created by South Korean hip-hop group BTS to launch the special collaboration line of Chuck Taylor All-Stars featured the illustrations of BT21 characters, it's currently available limited quantities in Asia starting from July 27.\n\nIn 2018, Tyler, the Creator teased a GOLF le Fleur x Converse One Star sneaker, which was made up of jute. The collection is set to be launched in November 2018 and will be available in two different colors.\n\nA special collection called \"1Hund (RED)\", whereby fifteen percent of the profits are used to support HIV/AIDS prevention, was released by the brand. One hundred artists from around the world were chosen to create designs for the collection as part of the (RED) campaign. Professional skateboarder, Anthony Pappalardo, who, at the time, was also associated with another (RED) participant, Girl skateboards—Pappalardo was sponsored by Chocolate skateboards, a brand distributed by the Crailtap, the distribution company that owns both Girl and Chocolate—released a (RED) edition of his high-selling signature skate shoe model. A short video piece was published on the internet and Pappalardo explains in it:\n\nI got into woodworking about two years ago, through a buddy of mine who I used to skate with every day—he turned into a woodworker. So he gave me this scrap box of wood, and, basically, I just wanted to do something with it ... make something with it. It just definitely started consuming me like skating did. I wanted to read about it, you know? Go on the internet and watch videos about it, and just learn anything and everything I could about woodworking. The first thing I ever made was a bench, and that's, kinda, what I've been making ever since. the cool thing about working with Product (RED) is just by doing the two things that I love, I'm also able to help people.\n\nPappalardo's first signature shoe with Converse was released in February 2010 and it was produced in the (RED) colorway.\n\nIn 2012, Converse is listed as a partner in the (RED) campaign, together with other brands such as Nike Inc., Girl, and Bugaboo. The campaign's mission is to prevent the transmission of the HIV virus from mother to child by 2015 (the campaign's byline is \"Fighting For An AIDS Free Generation\").\n\nIn winter of 2018, Converse teamed up with a number of influential figures and taste-makers from the Los Angeles area to create an exclusive collection paying to those who help move the culture forward in the city. Among those selected by the Boston-based footwear brand for this L.A.-themed collection is Vince Staples, Dr. Woo, Rocket, BornXRaised, and Clot\n\n\nDue to Converse withdrawing from performance basketball shoes, there are no professional players or college teams wearing Converse shoes, except on occasion Asi Taulava.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879435", "title": "Cooling down", "text": "Cooling down\n\nCooling down (also known as limbering down) is an easy exercise, done after a more intense activity, to allow the body to gradually transition to a resting or near-resting state. Depending on the intensity of the exercise, cooling down can involve a slow jog or walk. With lower intensities stretching can be used. Cooling down allows the heart rate to return to its resting rate. Anecdotally cooling down may reduce dizziness for professional or serious athletes and vocal performers after strenuous workouts. Studies are currently inconclusive as to whether the process actually reduces delayed-onset muscle soreness and muscle soreness not caused by lactate production during intense exercise. Some have shown a weak correlation: however, the majority of recent studies discount the relationship. One study has shown that athletes who perform an appropriate cool-down are less likely to become injured.\n\nCool downs should involve the following important steps to ensure an effective cool down. After exercise, a gradual yet continuous decrease in exercise intensity (i.e. from a hard run to an easy jog to a brisk walk) should be the first step in cooling down the body. Duration can vary for different people, but 3–10 minutes is considered adequate. Stretching, especially static stretching allows the muscles to be elongated and lengthened. This is the next step athletes should take to cool down. Rehydration is an essential part of the procedure and should be done either during stretching and light intensity or after these steps. Refuelling the body with water and sports drinks will keep the body hydrated.\n\nStretching is a very important factor in the procedure of cooling down. Stretching allows the bodies muscles to build elasticity and repair from aerobic and anaerobic exercise.\n\nStatic stretching is the appropriate form of stretching to aid in the cooling down procedure. It aids in decreasing the body’s temperature, removing lactic acid from the muscles and increasing flexibility. Each stretch should be held for a minimum of 10–20 seconds and stretched to the point of mild discomfort but not pain. Each muscle used in mid-high intensity exercise should then be stretched during the cool down.\n\nThis is a popular process for elite sporting clubs and athletes. It involves using either ice vests, cooling products or manually cooling down the body through gentle light intensity exercise to cool down the body during half-time or breaks in an activity or sport. Half- time cooling down has proven to decrease body temperature and increase aerobic performance. Many sporting groups use cooling down jackets during half-time. Australian elite sporting teams such as those in the AFL, Olympic teams, military and elite athletes across all sporting fields use cooling down vests to increase performance and gain a competitive advantage over their competition.\n\nDuring aerobic exercise, peripheral veins, particularly those within a muscle, dilate to accommodate the increased blood flow through exercising muscle. The skeletal-muscle pump assists in returning blood to the heart and maintaining cardiac output. A sudden cessation of strenuous exercise may cause blood to pool in peripheral dilated veins which may cause varicose veins. A cool-down period allows a more gradual return to venous tone. The heart will also need to beat faster to adequately oxygenate the body and maintain blood pressure.\n\nIt is theorised that individuals predisposed to, suffering from, or at risk for cardiovascular disease may be at risk for potential negative cardiovascular outcomes if a cool down is not completed following exercise bouts due to a rapid decrease in blood reaching areas of the heart (with narrowed blood vessels due to present cardiovascular disease).\nThis, however, is only a theory, and clinical evidence for this is currently lacking.\n\nMuscular and skeletal injuries have also been found to increase when the cool down procedure is neglected. Ankle injuries are one of the most common injuries athletes and participants are at risk of obtaining when the cool down is performed ineffectively or not at all. Injuries are decreased significantly when the cool down is performed for an adequate amount of time compared to only a short period of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "13076951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13076951", "title": "Donington Grand Prix Collection", "text": "Donington Grand Prix Collection\n\nThe Donington Grand Prix Collection, sometime known as the \"Donington Grand Prix Exhibition\", was a museum of motor racing cars, based at the Donington Park motor racing circuit in Leicestershire, England. The museum closed permanently on 5 November 2018.\n\nWith five halls and over 130 exhibits, the Donington Grand Prix Collection comprises the largest exhibition of Grand Prix cars in the world. The collection contains vehicles from many forms of open-wheel, single-seater racing, but is primarily focussed on Grand Prix and Formula One machinery. The museum was formed by the late Tom Wheatcroft in March 1973 and is based on Wheatcroft's personal collection of vehicles. These include some that Wheatcroft's own motor racing team ran for drivers such as Roger Williamson and Derek Bell, although many cars exhibited are on loan from other owners. Various external collections of automobilia and motor racing ephemera have been donated to the museum over the years.\n\nSpecific attractions include the world's only complete collection of Vanwall cars, a near-complete collection of McLaren Formula One cars from the team's inception to the early 2000s, and extensive collections of Williams and BRM cars (including examples of both notorious BRM V16-powered machines as well as the H16-powered BRM P83). The collection also has examples of four different four-wheel drive Formula One cars, including an unraced Cosworth car. Another star exhibit is the Lotus 18 with which Stirling Moss won the 1961 Monaco Grand Prix, along with Jim Clark's World Championship-winning Lotus 25. Noticeable, however, is the distinct lack of Ferrari vehicles, 3 in all, but fine examples nonetheless. First being a Ferrari 312 driven by Chris Amon, second a 312B and thirdly, a Ferrari F2000 (The particular chassis driven to victory in the 2000 Canadian Grand Prix, one of nine victories for Michael Schumacher in his maiden championship winning series with Ferrari), conversely, the establishment houses the Jordan 191 in which he made his formula 1 debut in 1991. The 1998 Jordan 198, the most successful in Jordan's history, (the chassis being the one Damon Hill drove to victory in a 1-2 with team mate Ralf Schumacher at the 1998 Belgian Grand Prix at Spa Francorchamps) also figures. Another interesting exhibit is an Auto Union, built from pre-war plans following the factory's destruction by Allied bombing during World War II. Wheatcroft has also supplemented the racing car collection with some additional notable cars, including a replica of the personal Bugatti Royale of Ettore Bugatti.\n\nAugmenting the car collections are the world's largest collection of motor racing helmets; Fangio, Graham Hill, Mansell, Hunt and Alonso amongst others, a small collection of racing motorcycles, including a Daijiro Kato Honda and a Barry Sheene Heron Texaco Suzuki and a number of collections of trophies and awards gained by a selection of British drivers and riders. In addition to exhibits, the Donington Grand Prix Collection museum also incorporates a conference suite and gift shop.\n\nThe Donington Grand Prix Collection was closed briefly in late 2009 in the wake of the death of Tom Wheatcroft and Donington Ventures Leisure Ltd. entering administration. It reopened in January 2010, along with the cafe and race control offices.\n\nThe museum sold the Jim Clark Lotus 25 c.2008 to an unknown private collector. Although it is no longer on public display, it has given the car the chance to be raced on track by Damon Hill and David Coulthard. Several other Formula 1 cars have also disappeared from the museum including Jackie Stewart's 1973 championship winning Tyrrell, Lotus 72 and Ferrari F2000. These cars may have been sold in order to solve Donington's financial problems when it enlarged the circuit and attempted to host the 2012 British Grand Prix.\n\n \n\nThe Donington Collection is home to the largest exhibition (being almost comprehensive of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s) of McLaren vehicles. Highlights of the collection include the #1 McLaren M23 driven by Formula 1 World Champion James Hunt in 1977, the McLaren MP4/14 chassis number 4, untouched after crossing the line and affirming Mika Häkkinen as Formula 1 World Champion, also, the 1993 MP4/8 driven to victory by Ayrton Senna on location at the 1993 European Grand Prix. An MP4/4, designed by Gordon Murray carrying chassis number 3 and being the only example of said model to not win a Grand Prix stands in exhibition of the all conquering McLaren of the 1988 Formula One season. Conversely, its lacklustre predecessor, the Steve Nichols designed MP4/3 TAG Porsche twin-turbo stands alongside it in a diachronic exhibition of Mclaren creations. In addition, rarities such as a Häkkinen's MP4/13 in test livery (prior to the unveiling of their new sponsorship ahead of the 1998 season), an M14A driven by Denny Hulme and an MP4/2, the car that took Alain Prost to his first World Drivers' Championship in 1985. Alongside these lie helmets of great drivers who drove for the Woking based outfit over the years such as Senna, Prost, Lauda, Häkkinen, Berger and Coulthard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42633108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42633108", "title": "Düsseldorf Open (ATP Tour)", "text": "Düsseldorf Open (ATP Tour)\n\nThe Düsseldorf Open (formerly known as the Power Horse Cup) was a professional men's tennis tournament played on outdoor Clay in Düsseldorf, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. The event was affiliated with the ATP 250 series, on the ATP Tour. The initial event took place on 18–25 May 2013. The 2014 edition of the tournament took place without a title sponsor.\n\nIn 2015, the event was cancelled before the 2015 ATP World Tour, due a lack of sponsorship, and the tournament's spot in the schedule was awarded to the Geneva Open.\n\nFrom 2006 until 2008, the Düsseldorf Open were an ATP Challenger Tour tournament played at the TG Nord tennis courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9921177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9921177", "title": "Elcho Shield", "text": "Elcho Shield\n\nThe Elcho Shield is an annual Match Rifle competition between national teams of eight from England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales. The trophy holder is able to choose the venue of the competition, however, since the NRA's move to Surrey from Wimbledon in the 19th century, the competition has been held at Bisley Ranges, Surrey, England. Each shooter fires fifteen shots at , , and with, unusually for a shooting discipline, no \"sighting\" or practice shots. The shooters may be coached which allows other team members to judge and make necessary adjustments to the shooter's sights. The rules allow each team two hours at each range to fire all their shots. The match is most regularly held following the national championships in July each year.\n\nThe first match, on Wednesday July 9th 1862, was held over , and solely between Scotland and England. In the event England won by 166 marks. Scotland won the trophy for the first time in 1864 and Ireland joined the fray in 1865.\n\nThe trophy is large and distinctive, known as the Elcho Shield, and is made from a sheet of iron decorated with repousse scenes to a design by the artist G. F. Watts. It was presented to the National Rifle Association of the United Kingdom by its founder and president, Lord Elcho (Francis Richard Charteris, 10th Earl of Wemyss and 6th Earl of March, b. 1818, d. 1914).\n\nThe current holder of the trophy is England (2017).\n\n"}
{"id": "47883954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47883954", "title": "Elvet Meyers", "text": "Elvet Meyers\n\nElvet Meyers (born May 2, 1960) is a sailor who competed for the British Virgin Islands.\n\nMeyers competed at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, he was part of the three man team that entered the Soling class and out of 22 crews they finished 21st.\n"}
{"id": "1631851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631851", "title": "Estádio Nacional", "text": "Estádio Nacional\n\nThe National Stadium Sports Complex (), also known as \"Jamor Sports Complex\", is a national football ground used by the Portugal national team and, as of 2018, by Belenenses SAD. It is located in the civil parish of Algés, Linda-a-Velha e Cruz Quebrada-Dafundo, in the municipality of Oeiras, in the western part of Lisbon District.\n\nThe stadium entered UEFA history as host of the first ever game played in UEFA club competitions. The game was played on 4 September 1955 between Primeira Divisão's third-placed team, Sporting CP, and Yugoslav champions, Serbian side Partizan Belgrade. It ended as a 3–3 draw and was the first game to be played of the first edition of the European Cup.\n\nIn 1933, the decision was made to construct the national stadium alongside the Jamor ravine. The original design was authored by Francisco Caldeira Cabral and Konrad Weisner and Jacobetty Rosa, with working beginning in 1939.\n\nIt was inaugurated on 10 June 1944 (Portugal Day) by the Council president António Oliveira Salazar.\n\nWork was complete in the Quinta da Graça (in 1953), to install the \"Comissão Administrativa do Estádio Nacional\" (\"National Stadium Administrative Commission\").\n\nIn 1961, construction on the hippodrome began, in addition to the first phase of work on the shooting range, by the \"Serviços de Construção e de Conservação\" (\"Construction and Conservation Services\"). \n\nThe \"Plano de Ordenamento do Complexo Desportivo da Jamor\" (\"Jamor Sports Complex Development Plan\") was issued on July 1982, ordered by the DGEMN \"Direção-Geral de Edifícios e Monumentos Nacionais\" (\"Directorate-General for Buildings and National Monuments\"), authored by the architects Vasco Croft (coordinator), Nuno Bártolo and Joaquim Cadima, and by the landscape firm Professor Caldeira Cabral, Associados, Estudos e Projectos, Ld. (under the direction of landscape architects Francisco Caldeira Cabral and agronomist engineer João Caldeira Cabral. During this phase, diagnostic studies were performed to reformulate and re-evaluate the strategic importance of the complex.\n\nIn May 1985, the study \"Estabelecimento de zona de protecção\" (to establish a protection zone) was ordered by the DGEMN, by architects Vasco Croft and Nuno Bártolo, to limit the sports complex zone, providing a buffer for military access, a \"non aedificandi\" zone and urban growth, in addition to spansion for greenspaces and support areas for nautical sports.\n\nIn 1993, a project to construct a sporting pavilion in Jamor was issued.\n\nIn September 2012, the Portuguese Football Federation announced that the stadium would undergo renovation in which work would begin in 2014.\n\nIt was announced by the Rugby governing body ERC on 2 September that the Portuguese team would hold their home games at the Estádio Nacional. However, all their home games were played at the Portuguese national rugby teams home stadium of Estádio Universitário de Lisboa.\n\nOn 6 February 2015, a tender was issued to cover the western edge of the audience seating for the rugby field.\n\nArchitecturally the stadium is noteworthy for its open east side, unusual for a stadium otherwise featuring a typical oval configuration. Its current capacity is 39,000 and it is the venue for the Portuguese football cup final.\n\nThe stadium has traditionally hosted the final of the Portuguese Cup (since 1946); in only five times was this game played in other venues and in total, 52 Cup finals have been played on the grounds. Portuguese football fans have bemoaned the historic stadium, owing to a lack of amenities; following the Euro 2004, there was a movement to move the event to one of the grounds built for the Euro football championships. \n\nThe most prestigious international game ever staged at the \"Estádio Nacional\" was the 1967 European Cup final, played between Celtic and Internazionale with the former winning 2-1 (becoming the first British European champion team, nicknamed the \"Lisbon Lions\").\n\nIn addition to hosting the Portuguese national team since in 1945, the site has held 49 international events for Portugal.\nThe Rugby governing body ERC announced on 2 September 2014 that the Portuguese club Lusitanos XV would hold their home games of the 2013-14 Amlin Challenge Cup at National Stadium. However, all their home games of the 2013-14 Amlin Challenge Cup were played at the Portuguese national rugby teams home stadium of Estádio Universitário de Lisboa.\n\nThere have been notable concert events from the site, including The Police (who performed on 25 September 2007), as part of their The Police Reunion Tour, and the Black Eyed Peas, on 30 May 2010, during their The E.N.D. World Tour.\n"}
{"id": "30927729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30927729", "title": "Football in Iraq", "text": "Football in Iraq\n\nThe sport of football in the country of Iraq is run by the Iraq Football Association. The association administers the national football team as well as the Iraqi Premier League. Football is the most popular sport in Iraq.\n\nThe national team have qualified for the final tournament of the World Cup once in 1986 which was held in Mexico. Success in the Asian Cup has been more widespread, winning the tournament in 2007 and finishing fourth in 1976 and 2015. As of 2015 the women's national team have not entered either of these competitions.\n\nThe under-23 side has had success at the Asian Games winning silver at the 2006 edition in Qatar and bronze in 2014, South Korea. Their best placing in Olympic football has been fourth at Athens in 2004.\n\nAs for 29 June 2015 the men's team were ranked 86th in the world and the women's team joint 138th (and last) due to being inactive.\n\nAl-Shorta SC reached the final of the 1971 AFC Champions League, the biggest tournament in Asian football, but withdrew from the final due to it being against an Israeli team; Israel were subsequently expelled from the AFC and the Arab media considers Al-Shorta to be the tournament's winners that year. Al-Rasheed SC also reached the final in 1989 but lost on away goals. Those same two clubs are the only Iraqi teams to have won the Arab Club Champions Cup; Al-Shorta won the first ever edition in 1982 with Al-Rasheed winning that competition three times in a row (1985, 1986, 1987). In terms of second-tier continental cups, Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya won the AFC Cup in both 2016 and 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23735732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23735732", "title": "Guinea-Bissau at the Lusophony Games", "text": "Guinea-Bissau at the Lusophony Games\n\nOverall performance of Guinea-Bissau in the Lusophony Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "40013216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40013216", "title": "Hazza bin Zayed Stadium", "text": "Hazza bin Zayed Stadium\n\nThe Hazza bin Zayed Stadium () is a multi-purpose stadium, located in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, City of Al Ain, United Arab Emirates. It is the home stadium of Al Ain FC of the UAE Pro-League. The stadium holds 22,717 spectators and opened in 2014. The stadium was named after the chairman of the club, Sheikh Hazza bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.\n\nThe 45,000sqm Hazza bin Zayed stadium is split over seven levels, and is one of the most modern sporting venues in the Middle East. It is one of the most sophisticated sports venues in the region.\n\nThe stadium was broke ground in April 2012 and was completed in December 2014. It was planned that Al Ain faced Manchester City in the inaugural ceremony of the stadium, but City drew 1–1 with Blackburn Rovers in an English FA Cup match on 4 January and a replay with Rovers scheduled on 15 January prevented the English Premier League champions from a trip to the UAE. However the friendly was instead played after the Premier League season was over and Manchester City beat Al Ain 3–0. The stadium will also host the 2017 and 2018 FIFA Club World Cups and the 2019 AFC Asian Cup.\n\nThe 25,000 seat stadium is located in Al Ain, approximately 150 kilometres east of Abu Dhabi, close to the borders of Oman. It was designed and built under a contract for a multi-functional stadium in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nClient was represented by AAFAQ Holdings. The project was realised in close cooperation with sister companies BAM Sports, specialised in stadium construction, and BAM Contractors from Ireland. The scope of work included the construction of a multi-functional stadium with a gross floor area of 45,000 square metres. In addition BAM built a six-storey office building, a sports hall and external works comprising roads, car parking, playing fields and landscaping. The stadium architects were London based Pattern Design.\n\nOne of the most characteristic elements of the stadium is the external facade which consists of fabric elements resembling the trunk of a palm tree that also can be lighted by LED lights in 15 different content modes. On the top of the stadium roof, 200 floodlights are fixed to provide the illumination of after-dark soccer games. Due to the extreme temperatures during the hot summer months, the palm bowl shape of the roof also provides pleasant conditions for both the players and the fans. It is one of the stadium's unique features, which is designed in a way that matches can take place in the shadow after 5pm. On the inside, it reveals the complex geometry of its cantilevered steel trusses, which was achieved by using robotic cutting and welding technology. The stadium is the first stadium in the world to featuring a unique parasol roof designed specifically to fully shade all fans.\n\nHazza Bin Zayed Stadium was voted Stadium of the Year 2014.\n\nThe stadium has been completed after a 16-month ultra-fast track construction project after being started on 1 June 2012. Built to FIFA standards, the stadium covers an area of 45,000 square metres with a capacity of 25,000 seats. The scope of the project further included a sports hall, commercial buildings and extensive exterior landscaping. The stadium is part of another further development that covers 500,000 square metres and includes 700 apartments, green spaces, two office buildings, 50 restaurants, shops and a 170-room hotel.\n\nThe project is the first component of this broader development that will have its effect first on the city of Al Ain, but also on the wider region including the neighboring countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council. It was a design and build contract. BAM introduced a lot of value engineering proposals which had to be integrated into the design and therefore new building permits were required within the 18 months. BAM International started the project in mid-2012 and remained right on schedule with all aspects of the construction, making use of 10.5 million man hours. At peak there were 400 men staff up to the supervisor level and 4500 labourers on site.\n\nThe stadium is an integral part of a new, wider community. Over the next four years, it will become the centrepiece of a planned 500,000 square-metre development that will include a 175-room hotel, a community of 700 residential units in a complex of apartments and green spaces, two office buildings, a sports centre, retail outlets and 50 restaurants.\n\nThere are a number of routes to get to Hazza Bin Zayed Stadium. The stadium is 15 minutes from Al Ain Airport.\n\nRoute A: From Abu Dhabi:\n\nRoute B: From Abu Dhabi:\n\nRoute C: From Dubai:\n\nRoute D: From Fujairah:\n\nHazza bin Zayed Stadium will host eight games of the 2019 AFC Asian Cup, including a Round of 16, quarter-final and semi-final match.\n\n"}
{"id": "54314407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54314407", "title": "Jimmy Lunsford Tennis Complex", "text": "Jimmy Lunsford Tennis Complex\n\nThe Jimmy Lunsford Tennis Complex is a tennis facility located on the campus of Troy University in Troy, Alabama. The complex opened in the spring of 2001 as the Trojan Oaks Tennis Complex. It was renamed the Jimmy C. Lunsford Tennis Complex a few years later in honor of the City of Troy's mayor by the same name who played a key role in getting the facility built. It is a first-class, full-service facility, offering 12 lighted hard courts with a clubhouse and pro shop.\n\nThe facility is one of the largest on-campus tennis facilities in the Sun Belt Conference.\n\nTennis lessons, clinics, and tournaments are all offered at the venue. The facility is owned equally between the City of Troy, Troy University and the Troy City School System.\n\nThe courts play host to the Troy University tennis teams and the Charles Henderson High School tennis teams. The courts have also played host to the USTA Tennis Classic of Troy, a $25,000 professional ITF Women's Circuit tournament. Well-known players in the WTA to have participated in the tournaments are Varvara Lepchenko, Melanie Oudin, Shenay Perry, Bethanie Mattek-Sands, Angela Haynes, and Ahsha Rolle. The tennis complex has also hosted the Sun Belt Shootout over recent years.\n"}
{"id": "47678129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47678129", "title": "Jorhat Gymkhana Club", "text": "Jorhat Gymkhana Club\n\nJorhat Gymkhana Club is a sports venue located in Jorhat, Assam. Club built in 1876 by D. Slimmons. The club has been a venue for horse races, lawn tennis grass courts, swimming pool, billiards, polo, golf, cricket etc. ever since its inauguration. The Governor's Cup is played here every year with a lush green 9-hole golf course circuit.\n\nThe club's golf course is list into the World Heritage list as the oldest golf course in Asia and the third oldest in the world. The club offers facilities in lawn tennis grass courts, swimming pool, billiards, polo, gentleman's bar and cinema theatre. The cricket ground here is known as Jorhat Gymkhana Ground and has a capacity of 8,000 as well as has a turf wicket. The ground hosted the CK Naidu Trophy which is Under-19 Indian Cricket tournament matches. The club is home of Khelmati sports club uses this ground for practising cricket and The Club road was the first asphalt road laid which connect the City Centre with the Jorhat Gymkhana Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "4889789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4889789", "title": "KL Sports City", "text": "KL Sports City\n\nThe KL Sports City (formerly known as National Sports Complex or Kompleks Sukan Negara) in Malaysia is the largest sports complex in the country. It is located in Bukit Jalil, 20 km south of Kuala Lumpur. Described as the \"sports complex in a park\", it was the only one of its kind in the country or region when it was fully developed. It was officially inaugurated by the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tun Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamad, on 1 January 1998 ahead of the 1998 Commonwealth Games in which it staged the Games' opening ceremony. The complex was upgrated to KL Sports City in 2017 for the 2017 Southeast Asian Games.\n\nKompleks Sukan Negara is easily accessed via Shah Alam Expressway, Puchong–Sungai Besi Highway, Maju Expressway and Kuala Lumpur–Seremban Expressway. It is also served by Bukit Jalil LRT station.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22168005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22168005", "title": "Klokke Stadion", "text": "Klokke Stadion\n\nKlokke Stadion, from 1931 on known as Albert Dyserynck Stadion, was a multi-use stadium in Bruges, Belgium. It was the home ground of the Club Brugge K.V. until the \"Olympia Park\" (\"current Jan Breydel Stadium named in 2000\") opened in 1975. The stadium held 25,000 spectators. It was named after Albert Dyserynck, who was president from 1919 to 1931 and had donated the property to the Club.\n\nIn the popular language, this stadion keeps the name of \"Klokke\" after a so-called pub in front of the main entrance. \"Klokke\" in Flemish dialect is \"a clock\". \n\n"}
{"id": "28702591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28702591", "title": "Merefield Ground", "text": "Merefield Ground\n\nMerefield Ground was a cricket ground in Rochdale, Lancashire. The first recorded match on the ground was in 1855, when the Heally Club played a United England Eleven.\n\nIn 1860, the ground held its only first-class match when the North played the South.\n\nThe final recorded match on the ground came in 1888 when Rochdale played the Parsees during their tour of England. The ground was later required for building and built over. The exact location of the ground is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "31389849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31389849", "title": "Muscle memory (strength training)", "text": "Muscle memory (strength training)\n\nMuscle memory has been used to describe the observation that various muscle-related tasks seem to be easier to perform after previous practice, even if the task has not been performed for a while. It is as if the muscles “remember”. The term could relate to tasks as disparate as playing the clarinet and weight-lifting, i.e., the observation that strength trained athletes experience a rapid return of muscle mass and strength even after long periods of inactivity.\nUntil recently such effects were attributed solely to motor learning occurring in the central nervous system. Long-term effects of previous training on the muscle fibers themselves, however, have recently also been observed related to strength training.\n\nUntil recently it was generally assumed that the effects of exercise on muscle was reversible, and that after a long period of de-training the muscle fibers returned to their previous state. For strength training this view was recently challenged by using in vivo imaging techniques revealing specific long lasting structural changes in muscle fibers after a strength-training episode. The notion of a memory mechanism residing in the muscle fibers might have implications for health related exercise advice, and for exclusion times after doping offences. Muscle memory is probably related to the cell nuclei residing inside the muscle fibers, as is described below.\n\nThe muscle cells are the largest cells in the body with a volume thousands of times larger than most other body cells. To support this large volume, the muscle cells are one of the very few in the mammalian body that contain several cell nuclei. Such multinucleated cells are called syncytia. Strength-training increases muscle mass and force mainly by changing the caliber of each fiber rather than increasing the number of fibers. During such fiber enlargement muscle stem cells in the muscle tissue multiply and fuse with pre-existing fibers as to support the larger cellular volume. It has often been assumed that each nucleus can support a certain volume of cytoplasm, and hence that there is a constant volume domain served by each nucleus, although recent evidence suggests that this is an oversimplification. Until recently it was believed that during muscle wasting (atrophy) muscle cells lost nuclei by a nuclear self-destruct mechanism called apoptosis, but recent observations using time laps in vivo imaging in mice do not support this model. Direct observation indicated that no nuclei are lost under such conditions, and the apoptosis observed in the muscle tissue were demonstrated to occur only in other cell nuclei in the tissue, e.g. connective tissue and muscle stem cells called satellite cells. Since in vivo imaging has confirmed that cell nuclei are added during strength training and not lost upon subsequent detraining, the nuclei might provide a mechanism for muscle memory. Thus, upon retraining the extra nuclei are already there and can rapidly start synthesizing new protein to build muscle mass and strength.\n\nThe extra muscle nuclei obtained by a strength training episode, seems to be very long lasting, perhaps permanent, even in muscles that are inactive for a long time. The ability to recruit new nuclei is impaired in the elderly, so it might be beneficial to strength train before senescence.\n\nDoping with anabolic steroids also seem to act partly by recruiting new nuclei. It was recently shown in mice, that a brief exposure to anabolic steroids recruited new muscle nuclei. When the steroids were withdrawn, the muscle rapidly shrank to normal size, but the extra nuclei remained. After a waiting period of 3 months (about 15% of the mouse lifespan), overload exercise led to a muscle growth of 36% within 6 days in the steroid-exposed group, while control muscles that had never been exposed to steroids grew only insignificantly. Since nuclei are long lasting structures in muscle, this suggests that anabolic steroids might have long lasting if not permanent effects on the ability to grow muscle mass.\n\nThe mechanisms implied for the muscle memory suggest that it mainly related to strength training, and a 2016 study conducted at Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm, Sweden, failed to find a memory effect of endurance training. \n"}
{"id": "8343936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343936", "title": "NASCAR rules and regulations", "text": "NASCAR rules and regulations\n\nThe National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR) makes and enforces numerous rules and regulations that transcend all racing series.\n\nNASCAR issues a different rule book for each racing series; however, rule books are published exclusively for NASCAR members and are not made available to the public. Still, many of the rules, such as the scoring system, have been widely publicized both by NASCAR and the media.\n\nEach car is required to display its number on each door of the car and on its roof. The front of the car and bottom of the rear bumper are required to match the decal specifications of the car manufacturer. Each car is required to display a series of around 30 NASCAR sponsor decals just to the left of each door and on the front fenders. These contingency decals represent series sponsors and bonus money teams are eligible to earn during the race, but may be omitted in the event in which they conflict with the team's sponsors or moral beliefs. The series sponsor's logo is displayed on top of the windshield, called the windshield header or windshield banner.\n\nBeginning in 2013, the livery layout for the NASCAR Cup Series was altered, coinciding with the change to the Generation 6 model car. In lieu of the series sponsor like in lower series, the windshield prominently features the last name of the driver (as well as first name or first initial in the case of siblings and family members, as is the case for both Busch brothers, or suffixes for drivers such as Dale Earnhardt, Jr. and Martin Truex, Jr.) placed in the center of the windshield header. Logos of the manufacturer are placed on each corner of the upper windshield. Number and sponsor logos were barred from being placed on the headlights and taillights, as not to obstruct each car model's unique characteristics. A new location for a single sponsor logo, however, was added to the rear of the roof adjacent to the number. In 2014, a new layout was created for participants in the NASCAR Chase for the Championship, requiring the cars to feature yellow roof numbers, front splitters and front fascias. The background of the windshield header would also be colored yellow, with the driver's name displayed in black lettering. A new Chase for the Championship logo would replace the normal NASCAR Cup Series logo in the contingency group. A decal would also be placed next to the driver's name above the door to signify each win a driver earned that season. For 2015, the liveries of the Xfinity and Camping World Truck Series would feature the driver's last name on the upper rear window. Starting in 2017, the Monster Energy logo is now on the front windshield with the driver name moving to the rear windshield in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series.\n\nOutside of these requirements, teams may design the car and place sponsor logos in NASCAR-approved locations, and must submit all paint and graphics schemes and all sponsor identity to NASCAR in advance for approval. One paint scheme requirement for example is that both the driver and passenger side of the car must share the same color pattern, though the front and rear may be different colors. This safety rule, to avoid confusion for spotters, NASCAR officials, and other drivers, was brought into light in October 2014 at Talladega, when Terry Labonte's Go FAS Racing team painted his 32 car in two different color schemes as a tribute to the two-time champion, but prior to NASCAR approval. NASCAR allowed the team to retain the scheme for knock-out qualifying, but forced them to match the two sides for the race. However, by 2016, it seems that NASCAR has either quietly removed this rule or allowed teams to race with a split-side scheme as long as they got the permission to do so, as seen with John Hunter Nemechek's 8 truck in the 2016 American Ethanol E15 225 and both the 3 and 31 cars of RDV Compétition during the 2016 NASCAR Whelen Euro Series.\n\nTeams apply to NASCAR for the use of a car number, and pay for the rights to the number's likeness. NASCAR legally owns and controls all rights to car numbers. When drivers change teams, the team owner usually retains the number. Unlike in other series, such as the former IROC Series, there is no provision for the defending series champion or the points leader to adopt car number 1; it is available to any team. Only one number, No. 61, in the Whelen Modified Tour, has been retired, in memory of nine-time series champion Richie Evans, who was killed at Martinsville Speedway practicing for the final race of the 1985 season. Other historically significant numbers have been ceremoniously retired, except with the permission of the driver or team owner. The number 3 for example, used by Dale Earnhardt and his car owner Richard Childress, has been unofficially retired for all teams and drivers except for an Earnhardt or Childress family member, with Childress paying a licensing fee while the number was out of circulation from 2001 to 2013. In other instances, a number has been relinquished due to a sponsor leaving a team. After the 2002 season, Robert Yates Racing switched from their longtime number 28 to 38 after sponsor Texaco-Havoline ceased their sponsorship.\n\nTeams can run numbers from 0 to 99 (as well as 00 to 09), but no two cars can display the same number during a race. Teams that run 00 to 09 are listed as 100 to 109 for NASCAR's scoring purposes. Except for those numbers (which have been used for full-time teams), part-time teams may be assigned a three-digit number for scoring purposes only (such as Nos. 141 and 241). If two such teams arrive with the same two digit number, the team higher in championship points prevails, and the other team will be forced to change their number for the race.\n\nAlthough NASCAR has a long history of tobacco sponsorship, following the 2003 season, longtime NASCAR partner R. J. Reynolds declined to renew their Winston sponsorship of the Cup Series, replaced by Nextel Corporation. In June 2010, the Food and Drug Administration passed new regulations preventing sponsorship for cigarettes or smokeless tobacco products in any sporting event, including auto racing events. The announcement affected two teams: the No. 33 Truck of Ron Hornaday, Jr. and Kevin Harvick, Inc. lost its Longhorn Moist Snuff sponsorship, while the No. 27 Nationwide Series car of Baker Curb Racing lost its Red Man sponsorship. Baker Curb would shut its doors the next year due to lack of sponsorship.\n\nIn spite of the legislation, tobacco sponsorship continues in the sports through electronic cigarettes, with companies such as Green Smoke, blu (owned by R.J. Reynolds), and Arrowhead sponsoring NASCAR teams. A brand of herbal smokeless tobacco, Smokey Mountain, has also sponsored drivers such as Hornaday, Johnny Sauter, Brian Scott, and Daniel Hemric.\n\nThough NASCAR typically promotes competition between multiple brands, including those that sponsor the sport and individual races, the sanctioning body provides exclusive protection to its series title sponsors, such as Monster Energy in the Cup Series, as well as current fuel supplier Sunoco. This policy, known as the Viceroy rule, prevents sponsorship from direct competitors within a certain series, although it does not prevent a company from moving to a different series within the sport, or advertising a product that does not directly conflict with the title sponsor. For example, Royal Dutch Shell, Texaco and other oil companies have been allowed to promote their motor oil brands (Pennzoil and Havoline respectively) but not their gasoline products. When a new title sponsor creates conflicts with existing team sponsors, NASCAR typically allows the team sponsors to remain under a grandfather clause. The rule is named after the British cigarette brand Viceroy, and is in reference to the 1972 USAC Championship Car season during which title sponsor Marlboro renounced its branding when Viceroy entered the sport to sponsor entries.\n\nThe rule has come into effect on several occasions, most notably when Nextel Communications signed a ten-year $700 million deal to replace Winston as the Cup Series sponsor. Active sponsors Cingular Wireless (sponsoring Richard Childress Racing's No. 31 team) and Alltel (sponsoring Team Penske's No. 12 car of Ryan Newman) were allowed to continue their deals, but both sponsor agreements were put into question when the companies were purchased and sought re-branding. In 2004, Robby Gordon was required to wear a full color Nextel patch on his driving suit. He had worn a dark gray on black subdued Nextel patch when he was sponsored by Cingular when racing for RCR. Between 2007 and 2008, NASCAR and AT&T Mobility (the successor to Cingular) filed suits against each other, with NASCAR seeking to kick all telecommunications companies out of the top series. AT&T was allowed to remain in the sport until 2008. Meanwhile, Verizon, after purchasing Alltel in 2008, moved its sponsorship to the Penske entries in the Xfinity Series and later the IndyCar Series, while the team ran a similar scheme in the Cup Series without Verizon branding until 2010. In a separate 2007 incident, Robby Gordon was allowed to retain his sponsorship from mobile phone manufacturer Motorola after adding logos referring to the company's \"Digital Audio Players\".\n\nA combination race is a race run between multiple series that operate under compatible rules packages. During NASCAR's combination races (currently the two K&N Pro Series (East and West), and formerly the Winston Cup Series/Winston West Series and Busch Series/Busch North Series), there is one race, but points are scored for both series. In previous years, drivers were given points based on how they finished among competitors from the same series. For 2017, drivers will receive points in their series based on their actual finish in the race among all competitors. However, drivers who declare they are running for a championship in both series (East & West) will be awarded points in both series, provided they have the appropriate license for both.\n\nSpecial rules apply as two teams will have the same number. The fastest lap time in qualifying determines which team will have the number for the race, and which team must temporarily change the number for the race. For example, during the 1991 Busch Series season, there were selected races in the Northeast (Loudon, Nazareth, Dover, Oxford) where both the Busch Grand National (now Xfinity) and Busch Grand National North (now K&N Pro East) Series raced in combination races. North team Ricky Craven (also drove his car) and Grand National team Don Beverly Racing (Jimmy Hensley driving) both used No. 25. Whoever had the faster qualifying time in each race used No. 25. Craven used No. 28 at Oxford when Hensley had the faster time, while Hensley used No. 5 when Craven had the faster time at Loudon. Both teams, however, scored respective owner points for the No. 25 in their respective series.\n\nTeams must use a single car from the start of the first practice session through the end of the race. Teams that crash a car in practice or qualifying may go to a backup car, but racing a different car from the one that qualified results in that car having to start at the rear of the field.\n\nEngine and transmission changes are prohibited during a race weekend. Xfinity and Truck Series engines must last two race weekends, excluding restrictor plate races. Changing either will result in starting in the rear of the field. Transmission changes are allowed during road course weekends and during the race weekends at Pocono Raceway. In addition, during Speedweeks at Daytona teams are allowed one free engine change between the qualifying races and final practice session.\n\nDriver changes are permitted, however starting the race with a different driver than whom qualified the car will result in the car starting at the rear of the field. Driver changes during the race are permitted as well, performed during pit stops, but a team must incur any loss in position due to time spent swapping drivers. The driver who starts the race earns all the points, statistics, and purse money.\n\nWhen the yellow flag is displayed and the yellow caution lights around the track come on, the field is frozen immediately at the moment of caution. All scoring ends immediately and cars are to slow to pace vehicle (safety car) speed. Cars will line up behind the pace vehicle in the order in which they passed the last scoring loop on track (there are as many as 18 loops around the track, although the one at the start/finish line is the only one that counts for official race statistics). The exception to this rule is if the yellow flag waves after the white flag is thrown (or, in the case of an overtime attempt, if the yellow flag waves after the race leader has crossed the overtime line) or if the race will not be restarted (typically for rain; but sometimes for darkness if a track does not have night lights), in which case NASCAR will use video evidence to determine the finishing order.\n\nWhen the caution comes out, the pit lane is immediately closed, a rule first implemented following the 1989 Atlanta 500. This is shown by a flashing red light at the entrance to pit road. Entering pit road when it is closed (with certain exceptions) is a penalty of restarting at the rear of the field. When pit road is open, a steady green light will appear at the entrance to pit road, and a green light will come on in the rear window of the pace vehicle.\n\nDuring a \"quickie yellow\" all cars may enter pit road the first time by when it is opened. After the pit stops, the first car one lap down at the moment of caution (known as the free pass car) is permitted to go around the pace car and start the race at the rear of the field, but back on the lead lap.\n\nDuring a full yellow, only lead lap cars may pit the first time by the pit road. Once the lead lap cars who have decided to pit have entered pit road, the free pass car will be sent around the pace car to earn their lap back. The next time by, all cars (including the free pass car) may pit.\n\nCars may pit as often as they wish at the expense of track position, but the free pass car is limited to taking fuel only at the first pit stop opportunity. If the free pass car is judged to have caused the caution (intentionally or not) there will be no free pass car.\n\nAt the one to go signal, the pace car will turn its lights off. At this point, any car that is ahead of the leader of the race will be waved around to the rear of the field. These cars are not permitted to pit until after the green flag comes back out and the race has resumed. The field will then line up double file for the restart. The leader of the race gets lane choice, but the third place car (and odd positions on back) will always start in the inside line, while the fourth place car (and even positions on back) will always start in the outside lane. The restart order is always this: Lead Lap Cars > Cars 1 or more laps down > Free Pass Car > Wave Arounds > Cars who have received a penalty.\n\nOnce the pace car has pulled into the pits, there is a restart \"zone\" consisting of lines painted on the outside wall of the track. The leader of the race is to begin accelerating inside this zone to resume the race. If they do not, the flagman controls the restart. The second place car may not be ahead of the leader at the moment of green flag, however either car on the front row may cross the start/finish line first. Passing is not permitted until the leader of the race crosses the start-finish line. Lane changes are also not permitted until after a car clears the finish line.\n\nPer the NASCAR rule book, a restart is official once the legal lead car crosses the start/finish line. If the green flag is waved, but NASCAR calls off the restart because of an incident before the leader crosses the start/finish line, the restart is deemed aborted.\n\nLike most other sanctioning bodies, NASCAR will use flags to provide the drivers with information regarding track conditions. NASCAR, not adhering to the FIA rules (despite NASCAR being a member club of ACCUS, the U.S. motor racing sporting authority and representative to the FIA World Motor Sport Council), does not use the flag system outlined in the FIA International Sporting Code. Major differences include that in NASCAR (and other championships in North America) the white flag is used to signal that the leader is on the last lap, in FIA ISC regulated events (such as Formula One and most European championships) it is used to signal that a slower car is on track. Also, the blue flag specified in the FIA ISC does not have a diagonal stripe, and the black flag means that a driver is disqualified.\n\nA knockout system similar to Formula One is used. During the time allotted, teams are allowed unlimited attempts to qualify with their fastest lap of each round counting as their official time.\n\nBetween attempts, cars are parked on pit road, where teams may hook up a cooling system through the cal flap in front of the windshield to cool the engine. However, teams are not permitted to raise the hood or make other significant adjustments during qualifying. Also, tires may not be changed without approval from NASCAR, who will only grant approval in cases of flat tires or safety issues.\n\nOn all open engine ovals in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series, tracks shorter than 2 miles in the Xfinity Series, and tracks shorter than 1.5 miles in the Camping World Truck Series, round 1 is 15 minutes long. The fastest 24 advance to round 2 which is 10 minutes long. The fastest 12 advance to round 3 which determines pole position. In addition to determine who advances to round 2, round 1 also determines who will and will not qualify for the race and starting positions 25–40 (Cup Series), 25–40 (Xfinity), or 25–32 (Camping World Truck). Similarly, round 2 will determine starting positions 13–24, with round 3 determining positions 1–12.\n\nOn road courses, there are only two sessions: Round 1 is 25 minutes with the top 12 advancing to Round 2 which is 10 minutes.\n\nIn the event rain falls between rounds, NASCAR has the option of declaring the session over and the speeds from the previous round will count for all remaining starting positions.\n\nDue to how the draft works in restrictor plate racing, and a series of crashes in qualifying during 2015 Speedweeks, a single car qualifying format is used for restrictor plate racetracks. In July 2015, after making rules changes to the cars designed to increase drag and drafting, NASCAR used the format at Indianapolis and Michigan (but discontinued its use at both tracks for 2016). The single car system will only be used at the plate tracks, ovals 2 miles and longer in the Xfinity series, and ovals 1.5 miles or longer in the Truck series.\n\nIn round 1, cars are sent out one at a time at the direction of a NASCAR official. Each car has one warm-up lap, one timed lap, and one cool down lap. NASCAR will release cars roughly half a lap apart to prevent any aerodynamic advantage from being gained from a competitor's car. The order in which cars go on track is the inverse of practice speeds. As with the road course format, the top 12 cars advance to the final round.\n\nAfter the final car has returned to pit road in the first round, all 12 qualifying teams may hook up the cooling system to the car for 10 minutes. Round 2 cars will qualify from slowest to fastest based off their speeds from round 1. The fastest car will win the pole.\n\nThe session results from single car qualifying set the starting lineups for the Can-Am Duel races on Thursday.\nThe duel races are two 60 lap/150 mile races. The first race consists of those who finished qualifying in odd-numbered positions and sets the lineup for odd-numbered positions in the 500. The second race does the same for even-numbered positions. However, there must be an equal number of \"open\" or \"non-chartered\" teams in each Duel race. After the Duel races, the lineup is set as follows:\n\n\nAll three NASCAR national series will set a specific number of starting positions by timed laps and have a specific number of starting positions based on owner points of vehicles that have not already qualified.\n\n\nIn the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series four positions are awarded to the fastest qualifying open teams. In the Xfinity Series, six positions are awarded based on owner points to cars not already qualified. In the Camping World Truck Series, four positions are awarded based on owner points to trucks not already qualified.\n\nThe final position in the Xfinity Series and Camping World Truck Series is reserved for a past series champion. Each past champion can use this past champions' provisional up to six times per season. If the past champions' provisional is not needed, then the position goes to the first team in owner points not already qualified for the race. If a former champion driver's team is one of the top six or four teams, respectively, highest in owner points, not already qualified, then that does not count against usage of the provisional. \nIf there are 40 or less (or 32 or less) vehicles entered in the respective races, no provisionals are charged and the field will be determined by timed laps only.\n\nAfter these positions are awarded, the cars are arranged by lap times.\n\nIn 1991, NASCAR introduced the past champion's provisional (sometimes known as the \"Petty rule\") after Richard Petty failed to qualify in four races in 1989, which resulted in a viewership ratings drop that season. This special provisional allowed a former Cup champion to claim the final starting position if he was too low in the points standings and was unable to qualify by speed. The past champion's provisional worked perfectly until 1997, when Darrell Waltrip failed to make the UAW-GM Quality 500 lineup because Terry Labonte was the more recent champion and was higher in points. NASCAR considered revising the guidelines to the past champion's provisional after Waltrip used it to enter 20 races in 1998. In 2004, NASCAR gave past Cup champions a maximum of 10 past champion's provisionals per season; this number was reduced to six in 2007. This proved disastrous for Dale Jarrett in 2007, as he moved to a fledgling Michael Waltrip Racing with no owner points and failed to qualify in 12 races after being forced to use all of his past champion's provisionals at the start of the season. The past champion's provisional was discontinued from the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series as part of the new Charter system and qualifying system in 2016.\n\nThe Open uses the standard procedure, but with only 8 cars advancing to the final round. All-Star race qualifying consists of the combined time of 3 laps with a 4-tire pit stop. The fastest 5 drivers in the opening round advance to the final round.\n\nThe Eldora Dirt Derby has a unique qualifying format. Each truck will take two timed laps, with the faster lap counting as that truck's official time. The trucks are assigned to one of five heat races where the top five trucks from each will advance to the feature. Those that fail to qualify will have one last chance race, where the top two trucks will also advance. Provisionals will be determined after the last chance race.\n\nThe Advance Auto Parts Clash is an annual invitation-only race held the weekend before the Daytona 500, and sets its lineup via a random draw.\n\nThe following is a list of NASCAR penalties. Penalties listed as \"NASCAR Discretion\" can result in a simple restart at the tail of the field, a multiple lap penalty, or disqualification.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNASCAR conducts a complete technical inspection prior to the first practice session, before and after qualifying, and before the race. A quick safety inspection is also completed prior to each practice session after the first. Penalties for car violations are typically announced the Wednesday after a race, and can range from a simple fine to a suspension (typically a maximum of 12 races) and loss of points. After a race, the top 5 finishers, one other random car, and the first car failing to finish the race not due to an accident will have their cars inspected. The winner, random car, and first car out also have their cars and engines taken by NASCAR for further inspection at the NASCAR Research and Development Center. Further, there is one random race per year where NASCAR confiscates 15-20 engines and takes them to NASCAR's Research and Development Center for evaluation, comparison, and to help decide on future rule changes.\n\nStarting in 2017, NASCAR will attempt to issue more penalties during a race weekend instead of waiting until Wednesday. There will now be L1 and L2 penalties:\n\nAs a member of ACCUS/FIA, NASCAR has a substance abuse policy requiring random testing of drivers, crew members, and officials. Those who have violated the policy (including suspensions for domestic violence) are suspended indefinitely immediately and given the opportunity to enroll in NASCAR's Road to Recovery program to be re-instated into NASCAR.\n\nDuring a race, teams must pit several times for refueling and new tires. Teams are permitted five crew members over the wall at the start of the race; that consists of two tire changers, one tire carrier, a jackman, and a gas man. Once NASCAR gives the OK (usually once the leader begins lapping cars), a 6th crew member is permitted only to service the driver/windshield. With the 2018 NASCAR rule changes, the gas man is now not allowed to make any adjustments to the car when refueling it.\n\nThere is an established pit road speed limit for each race. Since NASCAR cars do not have speedometers, the first pace lap of each race is run at pit road speed so drivers can get a tachometer reading for pit speed. There are a variety of other safety rules (see penalties above) that must be followed.\n\nAt the moment of caution or when there are two laps to go in the stage, pit road is immediately closed. NASCAR uses both a light at the end of pit road and a series of cameras to help determine the moment pit road is closed. The pits are opened once the field is under control of the pace/safety car unless there is an accident near the entrance/exit or on pit road, in which case the pits will remain closed until NASCAR deems the pits are safe to open.\n\nAfter an incident at the June 2015 Chicagoland Xfinity race where the pit flagman waved a green flag but the light at the end of pit road was red, NASCAR added a light to the rear of the pace/safety car to help inform drivers and teams when pit road will be open, and thus removed the flagman from the entrance of pit road. NASCAR's official policy is that in the event of a discrepancy, the light at the end of pit road is official.\n\nStarting in 2017, cars sustaining accident damage that cannot be repaired on pit road within 5 minutes will automatically be removed from the rest of the race. Speeding on pit road will see that time reduced by 15 seconds per infraction. Further, teams are not allowed to replace bodywork once the race begins. Teams using more than 5 crew members will also have their car removed from the race.\n\nFor the 2018 season, NASCAR created a new roster system. This system would standardize the number of at-track team members. Rosters are split into three categories: Organizational, Road Crew, and Pit Crew. \n\nExamples of Organizational roster spots include competition director, team managers, technical director, IT specialists. In the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series, teams are allotted three organizational roster spots for one- and two-car operations, and four spots for three- and four-car outfits. XFINITY and Camping World Truck Series teams are allowed one organizational roster spot each.\n\nExamples of Road Crew include crew chief, car chief, mechanics, engine tuners, engineers, specialists (for areas such as tires, aerodynamics and shocks) and spotters. The limits for these personnel by series: Monster Energy Series, 12; XFINITY, 7; Camping World Trucks, 6. \n\nPit Crews are the same in all series, with the maximum number being 5. \n\nThe exceptions to these numbers are slight. Monster Energy Series teams are allowed one extra road crew position at Indianapolis Motor Speedway and the three road courses (Sonoma, Watkins Glen, Charlotte), where teams often use multiple spotters. Also, an additional road crew roster spot will be allowed for XFINITY teams at 10 races and Truck Series teams at five. \n\nStarting in 2017, NASCAR announced they may reserve the right to move up the start of the race one hour to beat inclement weather (heavy rain and lighting on road courses).\n\nTwo hours before the race, drivers and crew chiefs attend a mandatory driver's meeting. They are required to attend in person, and no exceptions are allowed (which has caused trouble with drivers attempting the Memorial Day Double). Failure to attend the meeting will force drivers to start at the rear of the field. In August 2015, NASCAR announced they would experiment moving the driver's meeting to only one hour before the race since meetings at most races take less than 15 minutes.\n\nRoughly a 30 to 45 minutes before the race start time, driver introductions will be held. Failure to attend these will also require the driver to start at the rear of the field as well.\n\nAt the designated start time, a pre-race invocation is given, followed by the singing of the national anthem. Once the anthem is complete, drivers have exactly five minutes to get in their cars with all the safety equipment fastened and ready to go. At the end of those five minutes, the grand marshal for the race will deliver the command \"Drivers, start your engines!\", at which point each car must start its engine. With the engines running, the cars sit on pit road for approximately three minutes before heading on the track for some warm-up laps before the pace car. The average number of pace laps is three, but there can be more or less depending on a wide variety of circumstances and conditions, including but not limited to track length, track drying efforts after rain, or if a car has a problem and stops on the track during those pace laps. At the end of the pace laps, the field will partake in a rolling start.\n\nIf the last lap of the race is started under caution, the race will be extended per NASCAR Overtime. Once the track is clear, the field will be given the green flag with two laps remaining. If there is another crash/caution before the leader reaches the \"overtime line,\" usually located on the backstretch, then the race will continue to be extended until the leader reaches the line. However, when the leader of the race reaches the overtime line, the next flag (caution or checkered) will end the race (although competitors are required to cross the start/finish line at pace car speed to be scored in their position at the moment of caution).\n\nAfter the race, the winning driver (and, if at the end of the season, championship winning driver) will usually complete a series of burnouts in celebration of their victory, before heading to victory lane for more celebrations and post-race interviews.\n\nSince late 2001, a head and neck restraint has been required for usage of all drivers. Since 2005 the HANS Device (Head and Neck Support Device) has been the only such approved device. Since 2003, helmets have been required for pit crew members as well. Drivers and pit crew members must also wear firesuits. Drivers are required to use carbon fiber seats and headrests for strength and durability. Cars have also been redesigned since the 2001 death of Dale Earnhardt and after spectacular crashes to reflect new discoveries and developments in safety.\n\nAll oval tracks in any of NASCAR's National Series (except Eldora) use the SAFER Barrier and other soft wall technology to lessen impacts.\n\nAfter a series of flips and dangerous crashes in the 1980s, NASCAR began requiring all cars to run a restrictor plate at Daytona and Talladega. The restrictor plate limits air into the engine, reducing horsepower and speed at these tracks from 230-240 mph to 195-200 mph. At these races, in addition to the restrictor plate, there are a variety of other technical rules and regulations to keep the cars stable and on the track. In addition to these technical rules, restrictor plate races are the only races where drivers are prohibited from using the apron of the track to execute a pass. A double yellow line separates the track from the racing surface, leading many to call the rule the \"Yellow Line Rule.\" Driving under the line to advance one's position is subject to a drive-through penalty, or if the foul occurs on the last lap that car will be relegated to the last car on the lead lap in official race results.\n\nNASCAR previously sanctioned an annual 4-day pre-season test at Daytona International Speedway in January for all teams until 2015, when all private testing was banned. After that test, each organization was allowed four 2-day tests. Each test was required to be at a different race track. Rookie drivers were allocated an additional test. Beginning in 2016, each team is eligible to participate in five open tests that will occur at Indianapolis Motor Speedway, Watkins Glen International, Chicagoland Speedway, and Homestead-Miami Speedway.\n\nTire supplier Goodyear is allowed unlimited testing and can ask whichever teams it wants to complete the test. Usually Goodyear chooses the top three finishers from the previous year's event to run the test. However, Goodyear formerly staged a full-field tire test at Indianapolis in late June/early July in preparations for the Brickyard 400.\n\nThe Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series usually runs one day of practice and qualifying on Friday, followed by a second day of practice on Saturday morning, followed by the race on Sunday. If running a Saturday night race, the second day of practice is not held. During impound races, the three-day schedule is maintained, with qualifying taking place of Saturday practice.\n\nThe Xfinity Series will run practice on Friday, followed by qualifying a few hours before the race on Saturday. If a race is on Friday (or the schedule is otherwise compacted for other reasons), it is not uncommon for practice, qualifying, and the race to all be held on the same day. The Camping World Truck Series usually does this.\n\nRain can and often does affect the weekend schedule. When it does, qualifying is routinely cancelled and the starting lineup is set by owners points (previous year's points for the first 3 races). Whenever a race is postponed due to rain, then the race is usually scheduled for the following day (i.e., a Saturday night race postponed to Sunday afternoon or a Sunday afternoon race postponed to Monday afternoon).\n"}
{"id": "32446774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32446774", "title": "Naved Arif", "text": "Naved Arif\n\nNaved Arif Gondal (born 2 December 1981 in Mandi Bahauddin, Pakistan) is a former Pakistani cricketer who is banned for life for his involvement in spot-fixing. He is a left-handed batsman who bowls left-arm medium-fast. He played first-class cricket for Sussex in the English county championship.\n\nIn June 2014 he was banned from cricket for life, a month after he was charged with match-fixing by the England and Wales Cricket Board.\n\nNaved Arif began his career at the Gujranwala Cricket Association in Pakistan. He made his first-class debut on 26 January 2002 against Hyderabad Cricket Association in the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy. He took 5–28 in his first innings. In his first season, he finished as the 4th highest wicket taker in his team despite only playing 3 matches. He took 19 wickets at an average of 16.05 and with an economy of 2.64.\nNaved Arif made his list A debut on 28 February 2003 in the NBP Patrons Cup against Sargodha Cricket Association. He took 1–71 in his 10 overs and scored 49 runs from 37 balls. In his second season of first-class cricket at Gujranwala, Naved Arif took 18 wickets in 4 matches at an average of 20.11.\n\nIn the 2008/09 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy, Naved Arif represented the Sialkot Cricket Association and played a key part of the victorious Trophy winning team, playing 11 matches and taking 62 wickets at an average of 22.38. In the final he took 6–58 in the second innings to help set up a target of 158 runs for Sialkot to win the trophy which they achieved for the loss of 6 wickets. His six wicket haul in the final made him the leading wicket taker in the 2008/09 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy by a single wicket. In the 2009/10 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy, Naved Arif achieved his career best figures of 7–66. He also took 3 wickets in the second innings to achieve his first ever 10 wicket haul in a match with overall figures of 10–96.\n\nNaved Arif signed for Rawtenstall Cricket Club in the Lancashire League during the 2010 season. Arif was largely described as a big success despite taking time to come to terms with English conditions. Arif took 64 wickets during the season with an average of 18.00 and a best of 8–35 against Lowerhouse Cricket Club. He was also a useful run scorer for the club. He scored 769 runs at 40.5 with 5 half centuries. It was at Rawtenstall CC that Arif was given his nickname 'Barry' (as in the Great Barry Arif) a nickname that was adopted by his next club, Sussex CCC.\n\nIn February 2011, Sussex County Cricket Club announced that they had signed Naved Arif for the 2011 season. They stated that he would qualify to play as a non-overseas player due to his Danish-born wife. Mark Robinson, the Sussex coach, said that, \"Naved is a late developer, and with his background in Pakistan he's had to do it the tough way.\" He added, \"His record out there on unhelpful wickets is outstanding and he's got the potential to change games\". Naved Arif made his debut for Sussex in the County Championship match against Lancashire at Liverpool. Arif managed only 1 wicket in the match as Lancashire beat Sussex comfortably. He achieved cult hero status in his home debut at Hove. Once again, Sussex were facing almost certain defeat against Lancashire when Arif put on 90 runs with Monty Panesar for the 10th wicket to save the match. He also achieved his highest score in first-class cricket as he converted his first ever half century into an unbeaten century.\nDespite having the 4th best first-class average for Sussex in 2011, Naved Arif only played 4 matches. He took 15 wickets at 25.86.\nHe made more of an impact in the List A campaign where he played 12 matches and took 9 wickets at 45.77 regularly bowling in tandem with fellow left handed fast bowler, Chris Liddle. In November 2011, Sussex announced that Naved Arif had signed a new one-year contract with Sussex. Naved stated, \"I want to say thank you to Sussex for keeping faith in me. I know I have so much more to give the team in 2012 and I aim to establish myself as a regular\". Cricket manager, Mark Robinson said, \"I’m delighted that Naveed has agreed to come back for another year. Despite his age, he is still in many ways inexperienced. He is still learning and has got lots more to give.\"\n\nNaved Arif is married to a Danish citizen and therefore was qualified to play for Sussex as non-overseas player.\n"}
{"id": "43507153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43507153", "title": "Phú Thọ Indoor Stadium", "text": "Phú Thọ Indoor Stadium\n\nPhu Tho Indoor Sport Stadium () is a multi-purpose indoor arena, located in District 11, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, within walking distance from the 1932-built Phú Thọ Horse Racing Ground. The stadium was constructed for 2003 Southeast Asian Games. Although not officially recognized, the stadium is usually home to Vietnam national futsal team. It has a capacity of 5,000 people for sporting events and a full-house capacity of around 8,000.\n\nThe stadium was built in 2000 along with a practice venue. It was opened on November 20, 2003 and has served major sporting as well as entertainment and exhibition events.\n"}
{"id": "6218985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6218985", "title": "Plastic Stadium", "text": "Plastic Stadium\n\nPlastic Stadium, is a multi-use stadium in Shubra el Khaima, Egypt. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of ENPPI. The stadium has a capacity of 10,000 people. \n"}
{"id": "583875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=583875", "title": "Point guard", "text": "Point guard\n\nThe point guard (PG), also called the one or point, is one of the five positions in a regulation basketball game. A point guard has perhaps the most specialized role of any position. Point guards are expected to run the team's offense by controlling the ball and making sure that it gets to the right player at the right time. Above all, the point guard must totally understand and accept their coach's game plan; in this way, the position can be compared to a quarterback in American football or a playmaker in association football (soccer). While the point guard must understand and accept the coach's gameplan, they must also be able to adapt to what the defense is allowing, and they also must control the pace of the game.\n\nA point guard, like other player positions in basketball, specializes in certain skills. A point guard's primary job is to facilitate scoring opportunities for his/her team, or sometimes for themselves. Lee Rose has described a point guard as a coach on the floor, who can handle and distribute the ball to teammates. This involves setting up plays on the court, getting the ball to the teammate in the best position to score, and controlling the tempo of the game. A point guard should know when and how to instigate a fast break and when and how to initiate the more deliberate sets. Point guards are expected to be vocal floor leaders. A point guard needs always to have in mind the times on the shot clock and the game clock, the score, the numbers of remaining timeouts for both teams, etc.\n\nAmong the taller players who have enjoyed success at the position is Ben Simmons, who at 6’ 10” won the 2018 National Basketball Association Rookie of the Year Award. Behind him is Magic Johnson, who at 6’ 9” (2.06 m) won the National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player Award three times in his career. Other point guards who have been named NBA MVP include Russell Westbrook, Bob Cousy, Oscar Robertson, Allen Iverson, Derrick Rose and two-time winners Steve Nash and Stephen Curry. In the NBA, point guards are usually about 6' 3\" (1.93 m) or shorter, and average about 6' 2\" (1.88 m) whereas in the WNBA, point guards are usually 5' 9\" (1.75 m) or shorter. Having above-average size (height, muscle) is considered advantageous, although size is secondary to situational awareness, speed, quickness, and ball handling skills. Shorter players tend to be better dribblers since they are closer to the floor, and thus have better control of the ball while dribbling. \n\nAfter an opponent scores, it is typically the point guard who brings the ball down court to begin an offensive play. Passing skills, ball handling, and court vision are crucial. Speed is important; a speedy point guard is better able to create separation and space off the dribble, giving him/herself room to work. Point guards are often valued more for their assist totals than for their scoring. Another major evaluation factor is Assist-to-Turnover ratio, which reflects the decision-making skills of the player. Still, a first-rate point guard should also have a reasonably effective jump shot.\n\nThe point guard is positioned on the perimeter of the play, so as to have the best view of the action. This is a necessity because of the point guard's many leadership obligations. Many times, the point guard is referred to by announcers as a \"coach on the floor\" or a \"floor general\". In the past, this was particularly true, as several point guards such as Lenny Wilkens served their teams as player-coaches. This is not so common anymore, as most coaches are now solely specialized in coaching and are non-players. Some point guards are still given a great deal of leeway in the offense. Even point guards who are not given this much freedom, however, are still extensions of their coach on the floor and must display good leadership skills. \n\nAlong with leadership and a general basketball acumen, ball-handling is a skill of great importance to a point guard. Generally speaking, the point guard is the player in possession of the ball for the most time during a game and is responsible for maintaining possession of the ball for his team in the face of any pressure from the opponents. Point guards must be able to maintain possession of the ball in crowded spaces and in traffic and be able to advance the ball quickly. A point guard that has enough ball-handling skill and quickness to be able to drive to the basket in a half-court set is also very valuable and considered by some to be a must for a successful offense.\n\nAfter ball-handling, passing and scoring are the most important areas of the game for a point guard. As the primary decision-maker for a team, a point guard's passing ability determines how well a point guard is able to put his decision into play. It is one thing to be able to recognize the player that is in a tactically advantageous position, but it is another thing entirely to be able to deliver the ball to that player. For this reason, a point guard is usually, but not always, more skilled and focused on passing than shooting. However, a good jump shot and the ability to score off a drive to the basket are still valuable skills. A point guard will often use his ability to score in order to augment his effectiveness as a decision maker and play maker.\n\nIn addition to the traditional role of the point guard, modern teams have found new ways to utilize the position. Notably, several modern point guards have used a successful style of post play, a tactic usually practiced by much larger centers and forwards. Working off of the fact that the opposing point guard is in all probability an undersized player with limited strength, several modern point guards have developed games close to the basket that include being able to utilize the drop step, spin move, and fade away jump shot. \nIn recent years, the sport's shift from a fundamental style of play to a more athletic, scoring-oriented game resulted in the proliferation of so-called combo guards at the point guard position. More explosive and athletic point guards focus on scoring as opposed to play-making, forgoing assists and ball-movement, and often defense, for higher scoring numbers. Young players who are relatively short are now developing the scoring aspects of their skill-sets, whereas previously these players would find it difficult to enter the NBA without true point guard skills. These combo point guards can surprise defenses. Instead of passing after bringing up the ball they quickly drive to the basket or step back for an outside shot. There are some disadvantages to this style of play. A point guard often controls the offense and he also controls who gets the ball and who doesn't, as this type of controlling style of play is necessary to control the tempo of a game. Scoring point guards typically look to score first, thus preventing teammates from getting the ball. This can cause other players to become dis-involved in the offense. Even so, combo guards still require above-average passing skill, but not as much as possessed by \"pure\" point guards (which is what those in the traditional mold of a point guard are referred to).\nA point guard primarily defends on the perimeter, just as he primarily plays on the perimeter on offense. On defense, the point guard is tasked with making the opposing point guard as ineffective as possible. A defensive point guard will try to accomplish this with constant pressure on the ball, making it difficult to maintain possession. A defensive point guard will also pressure opponents in passing lanes in an attempt to generate steals and scoring opportunities for his own team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28288337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28288337", "title": "Portrack Lane", "text": "Portrack Lane\n\nPortrack Lane was a cricket ground in Stockton-on-Tees, Durham. The first recorded match on the ground was in 1839, when Stockton played an All-England Eleven. The ground also hosted 2 first-class matches, the first of which was in 1858 when a combined Yorkshire and Durham team played Nottinghamshire. The second and final first-class match to be played on the ground came in 1861, when Yorkshire with Stockton-on-Tees played Cambridgeshire.\n\nThe final recorded match on the ground saw Stockton play a United South of England Eleven. Shortly after this the ground ceased to be used for cricket matches. The ground was located at the far western end of Portrack Lane. By 1899, an iron works had been built on the ground, with the site today is occupied by an industrial estate and a gas holder.\nPortrack Lane is now primarily known as a major shopping area / complex in Stockton on Tees Asda have had a large superstore on Portrack Lane since 1970. The old store was replaced by a larger new store with a petrol filling station in May 2008. The old building was subsequently demolished.\n\n"}
{"id": "21284938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21284938", "title": "Suphan Buri Provincial Stadium", "text": "Suphan Buri Provincial Stadium\n\nSuphanburi Provincial Stadium (), formerly known as \"Suphan Buri World War II Stadium (\"สนามกีฬาสงครามโลกครั้งที่ 2 จังหวัดสุพรรณบุรี), is a multi-purpose stadium and the home of Suphanburi F.C., located in Suphan Buri, Suphan Buri Province, Thailand. It was opened in 1947 and expanded in 2001.\n\nAfter Suphanburi F.C. came back to the top level as promoted to 2013 Thai Premier League, the stadium was re-expanded during the early time of the 2013 season as the northern stand was additionally built (only three sides beforehand) and entirely seated. The capacity then turned out to be 25,000 (standing (east and south) and seated (north and west)). Subsequent to the 2015 season (2015 Thai Premier League) and prior to the 2016 season (2016 Thai League T1), the roof of the main stand located on the west was renovated as required by the AFC. Since January 2018, to lift up the club's standards and follow the AFC's club licensing enforced 2019 onwards, the stadium became all-seater bringing the capacity down to about 15,000.\n\nIts historical highest attendance was 25,709, for Suphanburi winning 2-1 over Muangthong United in 2015 Thai Premier League on 4 April 2015.\n\nOn 1 February 2014, the stadium also held the match of 2014 Kor Royal Cup (acting as Thai super cup), where Buriram United won the trophy by beating Muangthong United 1-0.\n\nThe follows are the average and highest attendances of Suphanburi F.C. in their domestic league competitions at Suphanburi Provincial Stadium, from 2011 to the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "19842548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19842548", "title": "Table tennis at the 2007 All-Africa Games", "text": "Table tennis at the 2007 All-Africa Games\n\nTable tennis was part of the 2007 All-Africa Games competition schedule.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "24104588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24104588", "title": "Tajikistan at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Tajikistan at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics\n\nTajikistan competed at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics from 15–23 August. A team of 2 athletes was announced in preparation for the competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "25982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25982", "title": "Tug of war", "text": "Tug of war\n\nTug of war (also known as Lbeng Teanh Prot[ in Khmer: ល្បែងទាញព្រ័ត្រ] war of tug, tug o' war, tug war, rope war, rope pulling, tugging war or ) is a sport that directly puts two teams against each other in a test of strength: teams pull on opposite ends of a rope, with the goal being to bring the rope a certain distance in one direction against the force of the opposing team's pull.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" says that the phrase \"tug of war\" originally meant \"the decisive contest; the real struggle or tussle; a severe contest for supremacy\". Only in the 19th century was it used as a term for an athletic contest between two teams who haul at the opposite ends of a rope.\n\nThe origins of tug of war are uncertain, but this sport was practised in Cambodia, ancient Egypt, Greece, India and China where it was held in legend that the Sun and Moon Lakhon Khol or Khmer Mask Drama Dance is a Cambodian traditional theater that has its origins in pre-Angkorian performance. It is believed to have begun during the mid-9th century through the carvings on the walls of Angkor. During the Angkorian period, the drama was developed by a man entirely in the dance of the Royal Palace. The real reason is still unknown, but researchers have shown that the rise of religion has made Buddhism conflict with Buddhism during the reign of Jayavarman VII (1243-1295). Many dancers have been murdered, so they have trained male dancers to create this dance based on Buddhists.\n\nAccording to a Tang dynasty book, \"The Notes of Feng\", tug of war, under the name \"hook pulling\" (牽鉤), was used by the military commander of the State of Chu during the Spring and Autumn period (8th century BC to 5th century BC) to train warriors. During the Tang dynasty, Emperor Xuanzong of Tang promoted large-scale tug of war games, using ropes of up to with shorter ropes attached, and more than 500 people on each end of the rope. Each side also had its own team of drummers to encourage the participants.\n\nIn ancient Greece the sport was called \"helkustinda\" (Greek: ἑλκυστίνδα), \"efelkustinda\" (ἐφελκυστίνδα) and \"dielkustinda\" (διελκυστίνδα), which derives from \"dielkō\" (διέλκω), meaning amongst others \"I pull through\", all deriving from the verb \"helkō\" (ἕλκω), \"I draw, I pull\". \"Helkustinda\" and \"efelkustinda\" seem to have been ordinary versions of tug of war, while \"dielkustinda\" had no rope, according to Julius Pollux. It is possible that the teams held hands when pulling, which would have increased difficulty, since handgrips are more difficult to sustain than a grip of a rope. Tug of war games in ancient Greece were among the most popular games used for strength and would help build strength needed for battle in full armor.\n\nArcheological evidence shows that tug of war was also popular in India in the 12th century:\n\nTug of war stories about heroic champions from Scandinavia and Germany circulate Western Europe where Viking warriors pull on animal skins over open pits of fire in tests of strength and endurance, in preparation for battle and plunder.\n\n1500 and 1600 – tug of war is popularised during tournaments in French châteaux gardens and later in Great Britain\n\n1800 – tug of war begins a new tradition among seafaring men who were required to tug on lines to adjust sails while ships were under way and even in battle.\n\nThe Mohave people occasionally used tug-of-war matches as means of settling disputes.\n\nThere are tug of war clubs in many countries, and both men and women participate.\n\nThe sport was part of the Olympic Games from 1900 until 1920, but has not been included since. The sport is part of the World Games. The Tug of War International Federation (TWIF), organises World Championships for nation teams biannually, for both indoor and outdoor contests, and a similar competition for club teams.\n\nIn England the sport was formally governed by the AAA until 1984, but is now catered for by the Tug of War Association (formed in 1958), and the Tug of War Federation of Great Britain (formed in 1984). In Scotland, the Scottish Tug of War Association was formed in 1980. The sport also features in Highland Games there.\n\nBetween 1976 and 1988 Tug of War was a regular event during the television series \"Battle of the Network Stars\". Teams of celebrities representing each major network competed in different sporting events culminating into the final event, the Tug of War. Lou Ferrigno's epic tug-o'-war performance in May 1979 is considered the greatest feat in 'Battle' history.\n\nThe sport is played almost in every country in the world. However, a small selection of countries have set up a national body to govern the sport. Most of these national bodies are associated then with the International governing body call TWIF which stands for The Tug of War International Federation. As of 2008 there are 53 countries associated with TWIF, among which are Scotland, Ireland, England, India, Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, South Africa and the United States.\n\nIn Indonesia, \"Tarik Tambang\" is a popular sport held in many events, such as the Indonesian Independence Day celebration, school events, and scout events. The rope used is called \"dadung\", made from fibers of \"lar\" between two jousters. Two cinder blocks are placed a distance apart and the two jousters stand upon the blocks with a rope stretched between them. The objective for each jouster is to either a) cause their opponent to fall off their block, or b) to take their opponent's end of the rope from them.\n\nIn Japan, the tug of war (綱引き/Tsunahiki in Japanese) is a staple of school sports festivals. The tug-of-war is also a traditional way to pray for a plentiful harvest throughout Japan and is a popular ritual around the country. The Kariwano Tug-of-war in Daisen, Akita, is said to be more than 500 years old, and is a national folklore cultural asset. The Underwater Tug-of-War Festival in Mihama, Fukui is 380 years old, and takes place every January. The Sendai Great Tug of War in Satsumasendai, Kagoshima is known as \"Kenka-zuna\" or \"brawl tug\". Around 3,000 men pull a huge rope which is long. The event is said to have been started by feudal warlord Yoshihiro Shimadzu, with the aim of boosting the morale of his soldiers before the decisive Battle of Sekigahara in 1600. Nanba Hachiman Jinja's tug-of-war, which started in the Edo period, is Osaka's folklore cultural asset. The Naha Tug-of-war in Okinawa is also famous.\n\nJuldarigi (, also chuldarigi) is a traditional Korean sport similar to tug of war. It has a ritual and divinatory significance to many agricultural communities in the country and is performed at festivals and community gatherings. The sport uses two huge rice-straw ropes, connected by a central peg, which is pulled by teams representing the East and West sides of the village (the competition is often rigged in favor of the Western team). A number of religious and traditional rituals are performed before and after the actual competition.\n\nSeveral areas of Korea have their own distinct variations of \"juldarigi\", and similar tug-of-war games with connections to agriculture are found in rural communities across Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Peruvian children's series \"Nubeluz\" featured its own version of tug-of-war (called \"La Fuerza Glufica\"), where each team battled 3-on-3 on platforms suspended over a pool of water in an effort to pull the other team into the pool.\n\nIn Poland, a version of tug of war is played using a dragon boat, where teams of 6 or 8 attempt to row towards each other.\n\nIn the Basque Country, this sport is considered a popular rural sport, with many associations and clubs. In Basque, it is called \"Sokatira\".\n\nIn the USA - A form of Tug of War using 8 handles is used in competition at camps, schools, churches, and other events. The rope is called an OCT-O PULL and provides two way, four way and 8 way competition for 8 to 16 participants at one time.\n\n\nPuddle Pull is a biannual tug of war contest held at Miami University. The current event is a timed, seated variation of tug of war in which Fraternities & Sororities compete. In addition to the seated participants, each team has a caller who coordinates the movements of the team.\n\nAlthough the university did host an unrelated freshman vs. sophomores tug of war event in the 1910s and 1920s, the first record of modern Puddle Pull is its appearance as a tug of war event in the school's newspaper, The Miami Student, in May 1949. This fraternity event was created by Frank Dodd of the Miami Chapter of Delta Upsilon. Originally, the event was held as a standing tug of war over the Tallawanda stream near the Oxford waterworks bridge in which the losers were pulled into the water. This first event was later seen as a driving force for creating interfraternity competitive activities (Greek Week) at Miami University. As a part of moving to a seated event, a new rule was created in 1966 to prohibit locks and created the event that is seen today with the exception of a large pit that was still being dug in between the two teams. The event is held in a level grass field and uses a 2-inch diameter rope that is at least 50 feet long is used for the event. Footholes or \"pits\" are dug for each participant at 20-inch intervals. The pits are dug with a flat front and an angled back. Women began to compete sporadically starting in the 1960s and would become regular participants as sorority teams in the mid-1980s.\n\nThe Hope College Pull is an annual tug-of-war contest held across the Black River in Holland, Michigan on the fourth Saturday after Labor Day. Competitors are 40 members of the freshman and sophomore classes.\n\nTwo teams of eight, whose total mass must not exceed a maximum weight as determined for the class, align themselves at the end of a rope approximately in circumference. The rope is marked with a \"centre line\" and two markings to either side of the centre line. The teams start with the rope's centre line directly above a line marked on the ground, and once the contest (the \"pull\") has commenced, attempt to pull the other team such that the marking on the rope closest to their opponent crosses the centre line, or the opponents commit a foul.\n\nLowering one's elbow below the knee during a pull, known as \"locking\", is a foul, as is touching the ground for extended periods of time. The rope must go under the arms; actions such as pulling the rope over the shoulders may be considered a foul. These rules apply in highly organized competitions such as the World Championships. However, in small or informal entertainment competitions, the rules are often arbitrarily interpreted and followed.\n\nA contest may feature a moat in a neutral zone, usually of mud or softened ground, which eliminates players who cross the zone or fall into it.\n\nAside from the raw muscle power needed for tug of war, it is also a technical sport. The cooperation or \"rhythm\" of team members play an equally important role in victory, if not more, than their physical strength. To achieve this, a person called a \"driver\" is used to harmonize the team's joint traction power. He moves up and down next to his team pulling on the rope, giving orders to them when to pull and when to rest (called \"hanging\"). If he spots the opponents trying to pull his team away, he gives a \"hang\" command, each member will dig into the grass with his/her boots and movement of the rope is limited. When the opponents are played out, he shouts \"pull\" and rhythmically waves his hat or handkerchief for his team to pull together. Slowly but surely, the other team is forced into surrender by a runaway pull. Another factor that affects the game that is little known are the players' weights. The heavier someone is, the more static friction their feet have to the ground, and if there isn't enough friction and they weigh too little, even if he/she is pulling extremely hard, the force won't go into the rope. Their feet will simply slide along the ground if their opponent(s) have better static friction with the ground. In general, as long as one team has enough static friction and can pull hard enough to overcome the static friction of their opponent(s), that team can easily win the match.\n\nIn addition to injuries from falling and from back strains (some of which may be serious), catastrophic injuries may occur, such as finger, hand, or even arm amputations. Amputations or avulsions may result from two causes: looping or wrapping the rope around a hand or wrist, and impact from elastic recoil if the rope breaks. Amateur organizers of tugs of war may underestimate the forces generated, or overestimate the breaking strength of common ropes, and may thus be unaware of the possible consequences if a rope snaps under extreme tension. The broken ends of a rope made with a somewhat elastic polymer such as common nylon can reach high speeds, and can easily sever fingers. For this reason, specially engineered tug of war ropes exist that can safely withstand the forces generated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52768654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52768654", "title": "Universal Rating System", "text": "Universal Rating System\n\nThe Universal Rating System (URS) is a system for rating chess players devised by Jeff Sonas, Mark Glickman, J. Isaac Miller and Maxime Rischard. It was introduced to determine seedings and qualification for the 2017 Grand Chess Tour.\n\nThe main difference from FIDE's Elo rating system is the combination of all three time controls (classical, rapid and blitz) into a single rating list, whereas FIDE maintains three different rating lists.\n\nThe first rating list was published in January 2017, following two years of research.\n\nMonthly rating lists from August 2016 onwards have been retroactively published. The number one player in every rating so far has been Magnus Carlsen, with Hikaru Nakamura occupying second place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50485158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50485158", "title": "Vasiliki Maniou", "text": "Vasiliki Maniou\n\nVasiliki Maniou (born ) was a Greek group rhythmic gymnast. She represented her nation at international competitions. \n\nShe participated at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. \nShe also competed at world championships, including at the 2009 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "50484985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50484985", "title": "Verónica Ruíz", "text": "Verónica Ruíz\n\nVeronica Ruiz (born 23 January 1989) was a Spanish group rhythmic gymnast. She represents her nation at international competitions.\n\nShe participated at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. She also competed at world championships, including at the 2007 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "1233884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1233884", "title": "Women's International Boxing Federation", "text": "Women's International Boxing Federation\n\nThe Women's International Boxing Federation (WIBF) is one of the more recognized world championship fight sanctioning organizations in women's boxing. Founded in March 1989, it is based in Miami, Florida, and presided by Barbara Buttrick. The WIBF is not associated with the similarly named International Boxing Federation (IBF), which promotes men's and women's boxing.\n\n\n"}
