{"id": "29121597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29121597", "title": "Aldo Capitini", "text": "Aldo Capitini\n\nAldo Capitini (23 December 1899 – 19 October 1968) was an Italian philosopher, poet, political activist, anti-Fascist and educator. He was one of the first Italians to take up and develop Mahatma Gandhi's theories of nonviolence and was known as \"the Italian Gandhi\".\n\nCapitini was born in Perugia in 1899. His father was a municipal official and his mother a tailor. From an early age Capitini became interested in philosophy and literature. Until the age of 17 years he was interested in the Futurism and nationalists who supported intervention of Italy in World War I. From 1918–1919 he abandoned modernism and nationalism for humanitarian, pacifist and socialist causes. He was committed to the study of the Latin language and Greek literature.\n\nCapitini was physically fragile and fell ill, discovering solidarity with those who suffered \"the last\". A long illness in his youth led to his religious conversion and the radical change of his political views. Of this period he said, \"During World War I was a teenager, but I followed the tragedy of humanity. ... Moreover, I suffered a long painful illness and was unable to work. Thus, I understood the limitations of my activist culture in the fibres of my being, which gave paramount value to action, to violence, and to enjoyment, and I felt a deep interest in, and solidarity with, the problems of those who suffer, those who cannot act, and those who are overwhelmed. I would need to envisage a reality where suffering people were perfectly well, and not thrown on the edge of civilization, waiting for death and nothingness. This is how my religious search really started\".\n\nIn 1919 he acquired the Technical Institute diploma, then, in 1924, he enrolled into the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa, completing his master's degree in Philosophy in 1928.\n\nHis encounter with Gandhi's nonviolence in the late 1920s defined his style and methods of action. He became a follower of Gandhi's nonviolence and a vegetarian.\n\nCapitini's religious conversion did not follow the traditional course, which he eventually abandoned when the Catholic Church signed the Lateran Treaty with the Fascist dictatorship in 1929. This made Catholicism the state religion and strengthened the prestige and power of Mussolini, with the Catholic Church becoming an indirect support to his government. As a result, Capitini significantly disassociated with the Catholic Church and became even more committed to his anti-fascist activities. From then on, Capitini tried to promote the reform of religion (starting from the Catholic, expanding to other denominations), with the aim of religion focussing on persons and their needs. He proposed that all religions should go beyond their dogmatism and their authoritarian structure to be at the service of marginalized people and those who had no voice in society.\n\nIn 1930, he began working as a Secretary at the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa. He became close to anti-Fascist students, as a professor being a conscientious objector. In 1933 the director of the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa, the philosopher and Fascist intellectual Giovanni Gentile, asked Capitini to join the Fascist Party. Capitini refused and was dismissed.\n\nHe then applied himself to nonviolent non-cooperation. In order to survive, he returned to his family in Perugia, where he undertook private lessons until the end of World War II in 1945. Capitini adopted the propagation of anti-Fascism as an important personal commitment from 1933 to 1943. To achieve this he met with groups of young people, especially in central Italy. This activity was facilitated by the publication of three books on philosophy and religion. The books were able to pass Fascist censorship because of the ambiguity of their titles, which addressed religious themes. Their publication was supported by the liberal philosopher Benedetto Croce, who, even though in disagreement with the Fascist regime, enjoyed a certain degree of freedom because of his international reputation.\n\nCapitini was imprisoned twice for five months for his anti-fascist activities from 1942 to 1943.\n\nIn July 1944, with Emma Thomas (an English Quaker), Capitini founded the Centro di Orientamento Sociale (Centre for Social Orientation). The Centre began its activities in Perugia with free discussions open to all, about local issues problems and national and international political and economic problems. It was successful and spread to other cities, including Ferrara, Florence, Bologna, Lucca, Arezzo, Ancona, Assisi and Naples, but it failed to establish itself permanently because of the indifference of the Left and the hostility of the Christian Democratic Party.\n\nCapitini, despite his anti-fascist efforts, did not want to be part of the Cold War division of the world, mainly because he did not share many of the aspects of these two world views. He therefore remained isolated and was not able to play an institutional role in the nascent Italian Republic. Nevertheless, from the end of World War II until his death, he was involved in a number of important areas: religious, civil, social and political. Furthermore, he promoted Social Guidance Centres, the Movement of Religion, the Italian Vegetarian Society, and the Association for the Protection and Development of Public Schools. Additionally he became the most important exponent of nonviolence in Italy. In particular, he organized the creation of associations, groups, magazines, national events, public meetings, seminars and conferences.\n\nIn 1946, he arranged the first meeting on religious problems at that time. Representatives of different currents of religious, political, social, religious scholars, and free researchers were involved. With this conference, he wanted to examine the Italian situation and to find a synthesis between social and religious life. In 1947, he held a second seminar, always with the same issues. In the same year, he also held a third symposium. As a result of these important meetings, the Religious Movement was established. Its aim was the struggle for religious freedom in Italy, the promotion of conferences; an association of ex-priests to assist those in difficulty to the discrimination of the Church; and publishing and distribution of books and pamphlets on religious problems. In 1948, the Religious Movement held the first Italian congress for religious reform in Rome.\n\nIn 1950, Capitini organized the first Italian conference in Rome on the subject of conscientious objection.\n\nCapitini attended the World Congress of Religions for Peace Foundation, held in London in 1950. He proposed the establishment of a Nonviolent Religious International Movement; nevertheless the suggestion was not accepted. He protested against the appeal made by the meeting to religious leaders, saying that leaders are responsible for compromise of states and wars, and that the Congress had to address directly appeal to people individually.\n\nCapitini participated in the Congress of Vedanta in London in 1951. The theme was \"Peace, unity of the world, the spiritual community\".\n\nIn January 1952, Capitini promoted an International Conference for Nonviolence in Perugia. At the end of the meeting, he created an International Coordinating Center for Nonviolence. In the same year he held another conference in Perugia to study nonviolence with respect to plant and animal life. The outcome of the conference was the creation of the Italian Vegetarian Society, with Capitini as President and based in Perugia. The vegetarian society became a collective effort after twenty years based on Capitini's personal wishes. However, forty years after his death, the Vegetarian Society continues its activities in the same way, the only difference being its change in name to the Italian Vegetarian Association.\n\nIn 1953, Capitini also held the first West-East Asia Conference in Perugia. The aim of the meeting was to highlight the similarities between Asia and western countries, especially from nonviolence perspective. Therefore, the effort was to avoid repeating the mistakes of a history of oppression, conquests and wars. In 1954, Capitini held a seminar of lectures and discussions on the methodology of Gandhi in Perugia.\nHe became a professor of pedagogy at the University of Cagliari in 1956 and in 1965 granted a transfer to the University of Perugia with the same chair.\n\nIn 1961, with the help of other political forces of the Left, Capitini promoted a 24 km March for Peace and the Brotherhood of Peoples from Perugia to Assisi in 1961, in the context of international tension. Its purpose was to state the wish that 'peace is prepared in time of peace' and to awaken this awareness in public opinion. The event, held in September, was successful and was attended by thousands of people. The success of the March convinced the promoters of the need for continued collaboration in the commitment for peace. The march has been repeated many times since 1961, the most recent in 2011, 50 years after the first one.\n\nOut of the 1961 march, a federation of associations and peoples was born, giving life to the Italian Advisory Council for Peace, Capitini was appointed as President. Nonviolent people, who also participated in it, constituted their own independent group: the Nonviolent Movement for Peace, Secretary Capitini. Capitini organized the National Conference on Disarmament Affairs in Florence in 1962, and held a seminar on techniques of nonviolence in Perugia in 1963, with the participation of leaders of the Committee of 100.\n\nInspired by the peace flags used on British peace marches, Capitini got some women of Perugia hurriedly to sew together coloured strips of material for the 1961 peace march. The use of the flag became widespread with the \"Pace da tutti i balconi\" (\"Peace from every balcony\") campaign in 2002, a protest against the impending war in Iraq and is now used by peace organizations throughout the world. In 2003, the Italian newspaper \"Corriere della Sera\" reported the opinion of leading advertising executives that it had become more popular than the Italian national flag. The original flag was kept by Capitini's collaborator, Dr. Lanfranco Mencaroni, at Collevalenza, near Todi. In 2011, plans were announced to transfer it to the Palazzo dei Priori in Perugia.\n\nAt the 12th Congress of War Resisters' International in Rome in 1966, Capitini gave a paper on \"International nonviolence and permanent revolution\". Two meetings in Perugia were the first congresses of the Nonviolent Movement for Peace. Capitini introduced a report, on the attempts of political, and social revolution, favoring the method of violence and thinking to transform society by the simple grabbing of power. He tried to prove that a nonviolent revolution is much more effective and lasting, partly because it avoids the risks and distortions of the authoritarian practices related to violence.\n\nCapitini promoted A.D.E.S.S.P.I. (Associazione per la difesa e lo sviluppo della scuola pubblica italiana [Association for the protection and development of the Italian public school]). This association was launched to defend and promote the rights of everyone to an education. In particular, the Association defended the freedom of teaching by attempting to make formal education similar to the confessional. To achieve this, the Association was the guarantor and controller of legislative and administrative power. The Association was a very active and efficient in pursuing its goals and Capitini was very active supporter and promoter of the initiatives.\n\nAmong those people he engaged were Danilo Dolci (a social activist, sociologist, popular educator and poet, known for his opposition against poverty, social exclusion and the Mafia in Sicily), and Lorenzo Milani (a priest and educator known for his civic education of the poor, and for his fight against injustice and violence).\n\nCapitini died on 19 October 1968 following the after-effects of surgery.\n\nAlthough Capitini remained a religious man his belief were counter-current to the institutional Church who condemned him and his books. The Catholic Church began a complex process of change and openness to the world with the Second Vatican Council (1962 to 1965); however Capitini was not able to see the fruits of this change, dying a few years later. However, in relation to its vision of 'open religion', the most significant and important innovations introduced by the Catholic Church appeared to him to be timid. The philosophical and religious thoughts of his training were based on, the results from the meeting with Claudio Baglietto (philosopher, and conscientious objector who died in exile in Switzerland), and some components that Fortuna defined in his essay to be integral parts of the Kantian criticism (for the primacy of the moral law), idealism (Georg W.F.Hegel, Benedetto Croce, Giovanni Gentile), Marxian analysis and Gandhian spirituality. To these elements, the political scientist and philosopher Norberto Bobbio (1984) added the influence of Giacomo Leopardi (poet and writer) and Giuseppe Mazzini (politician and philosopher). Capitini, as he wrote in his 'Letters of Religion', published posthumously in the book The Power of All, to escape the trap of traditional religions and to form his own ideas of religion and inspiration for his deeds, he was forced to go back 'to the teachers of religious life'. that he identified with Jesus Christ, Buddha, St. Francis of Assisi, Gandhi and Mazzini. For Capitini, it was necessary that the religious dimension of each person was translated into concrete action in public life. His engagement in politics was always astute and constant, while not wishing to have any specific affiliations with political parties. The first example was his rejection of the fascist card and then his fight against Fascism. At the end of the World War II, he wrote the 'Manifesto of the Liberal socialism', together with the philosopher and political scientist Guido Calogero. Their effort was to combine the best ideas of the liberal school with those of socialism.\n\nWhile he did not choose the path of party politics Capitini undertook an intense political life, gaining experience at the Centre for Social Orientation (CSO) and by making decisions in the field of education and pedagogy for a free and non-confessional public school. The author of this essay considered the most original contribution of Capitini to society and to the intellectual world that he attended, was the concept of 'open religion'. It was an idea so cool and innovative to be rejected and regarded with suspicion from the beginning. With the concept of 'open religion' the philosopher of Perugia wanted to introduce radical changes to the dogmas and practices of traditional religions, and wished to build bridges between Western philosophy and Eastern schools of thought (especially Buddhism). Finally, Capitini wanted to transform society by focussing on the spiritual and material needs of persons, also taking into account their libertarian and egalitarian pressures. Nonviolence is the main instrument of change, becoming a lever of social change in the path of improvement that does not exclude anyone.\n\nFor Capitini, the nonviolence that he put into practice was a product derived from this religious aspiration. Capitini recognized the re-establishment of religion to be an important historical problem, then taking this as a key point of nonviolence. He did not want to empty the religious institutions, but wanted to overcome them instead, re-establishing full consciousness so that politics could be understood as a religious act. His reform of religion was addressed to political action both at a personal and society level. In light of these considerations it is possible to claim that there types of nonviolence exist, 'religious' and 'secular'. Religious nonviolence can be understood as a lifestyle. It is an opening to existence, freedom, development of all people, opposition to oppression and destruction, and as final point it is active resistance. A way of being and living in relationships with others who, before becoming valuable as social action (external to us), must penetrate into our consciousness and be part of us. Meanwhile, secular nonviolence can be understood to be a pragmatic choice to resolve conflicts. Nonviolence becomes an effective method that provides better results, or less damage than, those of violent acts. In this case, the 'minimum' requirement is fulfillment of the two cornerstones of nonviolence: not to use physical violence, nor to offend the dignity of others for the duration of the conflict. In the former, the attitude is related more to the idea of nonviolence expressed by Capitini and Gandhi, in the latter it is possible to identify the contributions of Western scholars, in fact, in the Western academic approach there is the idea of observing the connections between nonviolence and power (the analysis to obtain and maintain power).\n\nThe \"Manifesto of Liberal Socialism\" was outlined by the philosopher Calogero in 1940. In this manifesto, Calogero collected the ideas of opposition to Fascism by Capitini and other intellectuals. Capitini and Calogero sought to join the best elements of liberalism and socialism. They combined freedom and justice to provide a remarkable insight that could overcome Marxist socialism and reactionary liberalism. The Liberal Socialism movement decided to give him a party ticket, in contrast Capitini decided not to join the party, because he wanted it to perform political lobbying.\n\nIn the history of nonviolence in Italy, Capitini was the main protagonist, being defined as 'the Italian Gandhi'. Capitini approached nonviolence in the late twenties and in 1931 Gandhi visited Italy for a few days. Capitini drew many lessons from Gandhian philosophy; he developed an overarching perspective where nonviolence became the source of inspiration for many of its activities and achievements. His work was also inspired by the concept of persuasion and openness. For Capitini the term persuasion, in the sense of complete conviction, indicated faith, and the deep belief in certain values and commitments. He believed that individual acts, according to the criteria of its profound consciousness, can create value and find something that is worth more than material existence and formal spirituality.\n\nPersuasion, a word which Capitini took from the philosopher Carlo Michelstaedter of Gorizia, is the ability to pursue one's own ideals with tenacity, and the power of nonviolence, a gentle power, however determined. The opening is the opposite of the conservative and authoritarian vision of Fascism; it is the elevation of the soul toward God. For Capitini, individuals have to open to 'all human beings, to all people, even to things'. In some way, he wished that society, the Church and, traditions were opened up to a dimension of freedom and a gift to all. First of all, through the idea of nonviolent non-cooperation he found the strength to refuse the card for entry to the fascist party, losing his job at the University. Initially he developed the concept of omnicracy, the power for all, meaning that each person has the right to participate in government and control of public power through meetings, assemblies, and meetings with politicians and those who held institutional roles. These meetings had to be public, informing people what was happening and what decisions were being taken.\n\nIn 1948, Pietro Pinna listened to Capitini at a conference sponsored by the Movement of Religion in Ferrara. In the aftermath of that occurrence, Pinna matured his choice of conscientious objection. He was the first post-war objector. Pinna underwent a first process and a first conviction in 1949 and served Capitini as testimony in his favor. Capitini mobilized to help young Pinna to his choice of conscientious objection. For this initiative Capitini called on the support of his intellectual friends and Members of the Italian Parliament.\n\nHis key religious ideas were:\n\n\nCapitini identifies the idea of co-presence in the value of all, together. However this does not negate personal individuality, instead to be together embraces each creature and saves them, bringing them towards the full realization of the good. Moreover, in the co-presence next to the dead are the live, engaged in one enterprise to overcome the logic of violence. Capitini wanted that reality to become a space of freedom for everybody. Co-presence needs to be implemented together with all beings, living or not, to create values and freedom from all violence and evil. To do this, all institutions and philosophies must be open. Religion is no exception to this rule, or rather religion, especially the Catholic religion, must be open to people in a free and selfless way, because every being is ‘sacred’, every being deserves love and absolute respect. The act of faith is therefore a free act, an open giving. Consequently, there is no need for an institution to serve as a means for salvation. Capitini \"testifies the superficiality of any institution wishing to present itself as a gateway\". It follows that in an open religion perspective, the distinction between priests and ordinary believers does not make sense, because God will enter the lives of everyone. Capitini’s prophetic religion radically refutes traditional religion and designates it as a new reality achieved through concrete actions.\n\nAccording to the insights of Capitini, traditional religions need to be rethought and reformed deeply. He identifies four main reasons to understand with a reasonable likelihood because religions have lost their aptitude to be innovative and must radically transform to society and mankind:\n\na) many facts that constituted the historical basis of religion have proved to be incorrect;\n\nb) many ideas, deemed to be central and fundamental rules, have not proved to be the most feasible and practicable,\n\nc) the essence of religion is no longer considered the adherence to formal rituals and loyalty to the institutions in their crystallized power;\n\nd) religions rather than being prophetic and playing a role in social change, have often proved to be a prop of the established power and an element of conservation, both in social and political patterns.\n\nThe concept of \"free addition\" indicates the difference with traditional religions. Open religion is drawing nearer to people. It is a spontaneous gift, a giving of oneself from within and thus free gift and pure offer. With the concept of \"free addition\" Capitini adds value, a positive trend, an improvement to human life from the persons closest to him. The religious life of Capitini is a life open to you-all, where it is possible to meet God through ‘you’. God is open to all and creates a relationship. Thus, people and all beings can build a journey of justice and freedom in daily life. In this path, nonviolence and non-lie (no lies about peoples' intentions or actions) are the means to foster this new religiosity effectively.\n\nCapitini was one of the first scholars in Italy to understand the significance of relations between East and West. He was probably favoured in this comprehension from having adhered to the idea of nonviolence introduced by Gandhi. In the religious thoughts of Capitini there are many references to Buddhist philosophy. The scholar Vigilante states, in his paper, that there are many similarities between Capitini religiosity, and Buddhism. Capitini lived the experience of suffering as the way to religious conversion. Suffering in Buddhism is a significant feature of the four 'noble truths'. Furthermore, Buddhists view the subject as unthinkable outside of a relational situation with the entire system of living beings. The Buddhist world is interdependent, living beings are interconnected and the salvation of each is possible only with the salvation of others. The respect for life, all life forms, and the desire not to hurt others are also important. Buddhism is aware that the reality is very different from what it ought to be; however mankind has the resources (internal and otherwise) to meet the challenges of reality. Capitini is fully within this vision, it is the vision of nonviolent commitment. Finally, Buddhism has two relevant features for Capitini: a) it teaches universal brotherhood, the attention to the suffering and the equality of all living beings, b) Buddhism is a religion that is not based on authority or on the divinity of its founder, but the effectiveness of its teachings. The latter point ties together theory and practice, thereby Buddhism was a fertile ground for reflection and action of the philosopher from Perugia.\n\nOf Capitini, Fortuna said \"it is enough to give a rapid glance at the titles of Capitini's books and see how many times the words 'religion', 'religiosity' and 'religious' appear to realize that such an insistence not only cannot be random, but testifies to the fundamental and decisive option.\" Without religious motivation Capitini would not have been pushed so hard to act in the social and political life. Nonviolence, and non-cooperation are the means he used to achieve his goals of social change and religious innovation.\n\nCapitini did not enter into the mechanism of political parties; in a bipolar Italian system (communism vs. capitalism) he did not take sides, defining himself as a 'left-wing independent', actively engaging in politics. It was never an indifference, according to the negative definition given to that term by Antonio Gramsci. He was opposed and condemned by the traditional Catholic Church, and was regarded as a utopian dreamer for his idea of nonviolence and for his insight to tackle conflicts through nonviolence. Of him Bobbio said, '\"that was a Gandhian in the land of Machiavelli, a religious heretic in the land of the Counter Reformation (and the associated indifference), a pacifist, religious, and moreover, in a country where a tradition of thought and action pacifist has never existed, \"even to the point that the \" great slaughter \"of the first Italy in World War II caused \"feelings of nonviolent tremors' comparable to occurring in the European context'.\n\nThere is a great consistency of thought with the personal life of Capitini. Moreover, within Capitini exists a vaster intuition and a greater and more perfect vision of the needs of mankind. The discovery of nonviolence makes this an unbeatable view of finding the means for its realization. These instruments are perfectly in line with his philosophy and his way of seeing things. From this was born a fruitful 'marriage' of dozens of initiatives, publications, and writings. His commitment involved many people, associations, and groups. On his ability to act, he generated new patterns of comparison, analysis and action. The most striking demonstration of the validity of his significant commitment is demonstrated by the legacy he left. Forty-three years after his death, the Italian Nonviolent Movement is still in existence, the Nonviolent Action magazine and his meaningful insights are still valid today, being able to draw the attention of scholars and intellectuals who have the expertise to fully assess Capitini's legacy. In addition, there has been a wide spread of nonviolence and its methods, and in Italy the first degree-oriented peace research, was established by the University of Pisa and Florence in the academic year 2001–2002. On the other hand, it must be said that civil Italian society still has to acknowledge the idea of nonviolence as an operational tool for conflict transformation, in order to become an overwhelming majority, and the route of religious change remains very long and difficult. On the whole Capitini has made a significant and real contribution to the development of nonviolence, starting from its condition of 'free religious' and this commitment has not disappeared. The socialist politician Pietro Nenni said a short sentence, it summarizes in a clear, effective and illuminating manner the uniqueness, diversity and commitment of Capitini. On the death of Capitini he wrote: '… Aldo Capitini was counter-current during the time of Fascism and then again in the post-Fascism era. Maybe it is too much for one human life, however beautiful it is’.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1649551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649551", "title": "Anthropopathism", "text": "Anthropopathism\n\nAnthropopathism (from Greek ἄνθρωπος \"anthropos\", \"human\" and πάθος \"pathos\", \"suffering\") is the attribution of human emotions, or the ascription of human feelings or passions to a non-human being, generally to a deity.\n\nBy comparison, the term anthropomorphism originally referred to the attribution of human form to a non-human being, but in modern usage anthropomorphism has come to encompass both meanings.\n\nThis is a technique prevalent in religious writings, where, for instance, human emotion is attributed to God, where he would not normally experience emotion in this sense.\nThis technique is particularly notable in the book of Genesis, as an example of the theme of God as a personal god. Some Bible scholars, however, argue that human emotions ascribed to God are indicative of divine responses within the matrix of human history that are in fact analogous to human emotions though not univocal.\n\n"}
{"id": "24164987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24164987", "title": "Antonio García-Trevijano", "text": "Antonio García-Trevijano\n\nAntonio García-Trevijano Forte (18 July 1927 – 28 February 2018) was a Spanish republican, a political activist, and an author. He was born in Granada, noted for his activism against the Francoist Spain. He was referred to by the University Press of America as \"a leading figure in Spanish politics since the late 1960s and probably one of the most important intellectuals of the 20th century in political and aesthetic theory\".\n\nIn 1974 García-Trevijano organised meetings in Paris between Don Juan de Borbón and the republican groups plus the publishing group Ruedo Ibérico, in which the legitimate heir to the Spanish throne expressed his rejection of Franco's decree appointing his son Juan Carlos as his successor. He acts as a promoter of political freedom throughout Spain and is the leader of the Citizens' Movement towards the Constitutional Republic of Spain (MCRC)\n\nFor his work on behalf of political freedom during Franco's lifetime, García-Trevijano was the subject of a defamation campaign in the newspaper \"Pueblo\". He was tried for high treason before the Court of Public Order (Marshal of Ghent) because of his intervention in Equatorial Guinea. He has had five passports withdrawn, suffered three arrests and two fines, was the victim of a serious attack for his declarations to the BBC when Franco was dying, and was prosecuted by the Public Order Court (Gómez Chaparro) for an offense against the State and imprisoned for four months by order of Manuel Fraga Iribarne.\n\nGarcía-Trevijano wrote a blog and in the \"Journal of the Constitutional Republic\". A political analyst in the Spanish press, he wrote more than 50 articles in the \"Reporter magazine\", over a thousand articles in \"ABC\", \"El País\", \"El Independiente\", \"El Mundo\", and \"La Razón\". He has written several monographs in private law, a short book titled \"The Truth of my Intervention in Guinea\". He has also written the books \"The Democratic Alternative\", \"The Discourse of the Republic\", \"Confronting the Big Lie\"—which has been published in English with the title \"A Pure Theory of Democracy\" by the University Press of America, \"Passions of servitude\", an art book titled \"Donatello, Sculptor of the Childhood\", and a book on philosophy of art entitled \"From Modernity to Modernism. Atheism Aesthetic: Art of the Twentieth Century\". He has also written prologues to \"Palace of Injustice\" and \"El País: Culture as Business\".\n\nGarcía-Trevijano was Professor of Commercial Law at the University of Granada and a notary, and worked as an attorney in Madrid from 1960 until his death. He died on 28 February 2018 from natural causes. He was 90 years old.\n\n\n\n\nArticles and audio-visual documents of Antonio García-Trevijano are available to read, listen and watch in the pro Justice & Democracy web Habeas-Corpus.net\n"}
{"id": "43866463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43866463", "title": "Apache Phoenix", "text": "Apache Phoenix\n\nApache Phoenix is an open source, massively parallel, relational database engine supporting OLTP for Hadoop using Apache HBase as its backing store. Phoenix provides a JDBC driver that hides the intricacies of the noSQL store enabling users to create, delete, and alter SQL tables, views, indexes, and sequences; insert and delete rows singly and in bulk; and query data through SQL. Phoenix compiles queries and other statements into native noSQL store APIs rather than using MapReduce enabling the building of low latency applications on top of noSQL stores.\n\nPhoenix began as an internal project by the company salesforce.com out of a need to support a higher level, well understood, SQL language. It was originally open-sourced on GitHub and became a top-level Apache project on 22 May 2014. Apache Phoenix is included in the Hortonworks distribution for HDP 2.1 and above, is available as part of Cloudera labs, and is part of the Hadoop ecosystem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31599830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31599830", "title": "Biography Work", "text": "Biography Work\n\nBiography work is essentially about interest in the human being and the great mystery of existence we call human life. It is an active practice for developing self-knowledge. It is a search for meaning out of which may arise greater social understanding—deeper, genuine interest in one's fellow man. Biography work is founded upon the vast work of Rudolf Steiner, collectively called spiritual science or anthroposophy--\"wisdom or knowledge of the human being.\" Anthroposophy is often described as a path from the spiritual in the human being to the spiritual in the world or cosmos. A profound relationship exists between the cosmos or macrocosm and the human being as microcosm. Indeed, anthroposophy suggests the human being \"is\" a microcosm of the macrocosm. Yet, biography work works directly with physical existence, life on earth, which itself speaks volumes, if we will but \"learn to read the text\" of the individual experience, as well as that of the archetype. The human being is a bridge then: on the one hand, embedded in the earth, directed by the rhythms of nature, the seasons, night and day, etc.; and, on the other hand, belonging to the spiritual world. \"The only real hope of people today is probably a renewal of certainty that we are rooted in the earth, and at the same time in the cosmos,\" as so beautifully described by Vaclav Havel (\"The Measure of Man\").\n\nThe human life, one's biography, is shaped by the inherently creative and uniquely individual power of the \"I\" or Higher Ego or Higher Self. It is an exploration of the role of the \"I\" in unfolding a life full of gifts, opportunities, illnesses, accidents, struggles, tasks, responsibilities, and perhaps above all questions. Biography work invites new self-understanding and, in turn, awakens interest in the experiences of others. In an evermore virtual world, biography work fosters real meetings and genuine appreciation for the diversity of human endeavor and creativity. \n\nBiography Work was first developed in the 1970s, arising out of a picture of human development given by Rudolf Steiner early in the twentieth century. Steiner described physical, soul, and spiritual development from birth to death in great detail, and included, as a significant aspect of the whole human being, the soul’s further spiritual growth after death and through successive lifetimes, i.e. reincarnation. Steiner knew that in our time there would be tremendous need for increased social understanding, and that study of human development would be an essential foundation of such understanding.\n\nOne of the earliest descriptions of biography work given by Rudolf Steiner appears in the lecture titled \"How Can the Destitution of Soul in Modern Times Be Overcome?\" and is as follows: \"As many descriptions as possible of how human beings really develop—what I would call the positive natural history of individual human development—must be disseminated in an understanding way. Wherever we can we should describe how this or that person developed—we should be able to give a loving account of human development, as we have observed it. The study of life is needed, the will to the understanding of life.\"\n\nDrawing on the many references found in multiple lectures given by Rudolf Steiner, students of his work and leaders in the anthroposophical community began to create practices that are today collectively referred to as \"biography work\" (or sometimes \"social art\"). Two of those leaders, Bernard Lievegoed, a Dutch physician, and Gudrun Burkhard, a physician who still lives and practices in Brazil, both teachers and authors as well, led a pioneering initiative and introduced this new way of life-consultation, first in their respective regions and soon to the world. In the United States, the efforts of George and Gisela O'Neil culminated in the publication (by Florin Lowndes, after the O'Neils' deaths) of \"The Human Life\", a rich depiction of human development, birth to death, a thorough exploration of their original work in developing the life-chart, and a comprehensive collection of references made by Dr. Steiner regarding human biography.\n\nBiography work is about listening. At the heart of biography work is the understanding that each life story is a unique revelation of intention and deep wisdom. For the biography practitioner, each “journey” is sacred, and there is an understanding that the “traveler” is continually informed by both individual and universal truths. Biography practitioners bring a broad perspective, artistic exercises, and true listening to life explorations.\nBiography work is phenomenological; its methods based in phenomenology, particularly as developed by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Biography practitioners (also called biography workers, social artists) work via the following: workshops, adult education courses, one-on-one or small group conversation, counseling, consultation and continuing education for professionals. \n\nThese are offered on a variety of themes and the learning process is typically infused with social art. Sessions might include short talks, biography exercises, work with storytelling, nature observation, artwork, meditation or inner practice, and conversation. One of the gifts of working in groups is a heightened appreciation for each unique life as it resonates within the context of universal patterns. \n\nBeing one of the most human of activities, conversation is central to biography work. \n\nSome certified biography practitioners are also licensed in counseling, psychotherapy, social work and the like. They typically work in a formal or clinical setting and are able to address crises, life-changing events, inner difficulties, and illness.\nBiography practitioners can bring new perspectives to existing professions such as art therapy, medicine, care for the elderly, hospice, work with the homeless, and more.\n\n Center for Biography and Social Art http://www.biographysocialart.org\n Professional Training in Applied Biographical Development http://www.christophori.com\n"}
{"id": "40777691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40777691", "title": "Brahmajna Ma", "text": "Brahmajna Ma\n\nSri Brahmajna Ma (21 February 1880 – 5 November 1934) was an Indian advaitin saint from East Bengal. What little is known about her reveals her as an illumined soul who was established in non-dual realization. Like Ramana Maharshi, she had no guru, but attained enlightenment through her own efforts at self-inquiry.\n\nBrahmajna Ma was named Kadambini Devi by her father Abhaya Charan Chakravarti. She was born in the small village of Bitara, in the Tipperah district of East Bengal (now the Comilla district of Bangladesh), and married at the age of eight, according to the prevalent custom, to a young Brahmin of the nearby village Putia. Her husband died before she was ten years old. She attained final realisation in 1912, after which she travelled to various places in India. She died in Deoghar, Bihar (now Jharkhand) in 1934.\n\nBrahmajna Ma did not want any biography written about her. She herself dictated the following as the complete biography of her life:\n\nSome selected teachings:\n\n\nBrahmajna Ma was a poet. A typical poem follows:\n\n\"The Life and Teaching of Sri Brahmajna Ma\", Swami Prabudhananda, Sadhu Arunachala (Major A W Chadwick), ed. (Deoghar: D N Sen, Santi Asram, Bela Bagan, 1961)\n\n"}
{"id": "22108220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22108220", "title": "Casket with Scenes of Romances (Walters 71264)", "text": "Casket with Scenes of Romances (Walters 71264)\n\nThe object called by the museum Casket with Scenes of Romances (catalogued as Walters 71264) is a French Gothic ivory casket made in Paris between 1330 and 1350, and now in the Walters Art Museum, Baltimore, Maryland. The casket is 4 5/8 inches high, 9 15/16 inches wide and 5 1/16 inches deep (11.8 × 25.2 × 12.9 cm).\n\nThe casket is one of the relatively few surviving Gothic ivory caskets decorated with a variety of themes from courtly literature, called composite caskets for that reason. There are at least eight known surviving examples (and numerous fragments), of which two more are also discussed in this article: firstly a casket in the British Museum with an almost identical set of scenes, and one in the Cluny Museum in Paris, which shares many scenes, but diverges in others.\n\nBy this period, Paris was the main European centre of ivory carving, producing large numbers of religious and secular objects, including small diptychs with religious scenes that used the same relief technique; these and smaller secular objects such as mirror-cases are more common than these caskets, or larger religious statues like the \"Virgin and Child from the Sainte-Chapelle\" of the 1260s. The composite caskets differ slightly from each other, but are sufficiently similar to suggest they all originated from one Paris workshop, or group of workshops, around 1330 to 1350.\n\nThis casket may well have been a gift of courtship or upon marriage, and was probably intended for an aristocratic female owner, to keep her jewels and other valuables in. The carved scenes were possibly originally painted; as the paint on Gothic ivories tended to peel in places, it was very often removed by later dealers and collectors. The unusually large size of the piece allows a wide range of the repertoire of popular scenes from different literary sources in French Gothic art to be shown, which display a variety of medieval attitudes to love and the role of women: \"Themes such as lust and chastity, folly and wisdom are juxtaposed in a series of non-connected scenes\". Susan L. Smith has proposed that composite caskets express the power of love. The Walters casket is first recorded in England in 1757, and was bought by Henry Walters in 1923. The iron mounts are modern, probably 19th century.\n\nThe lid shows scenes of the Castle of love and knights jousting and the sides show other scenes from French medieval romances. The themes of the lid are related to the 13th-century \"Romance of the Rose\" by Guillaume de Lorris and Jean de Meung. The \"Siege of the Castle of Love\" (or \"Assault on\" etc.), at the left on the lid, is a fanciful scene of courtly romance, where knights attack a castle defended by ladies and a cupid, with both sides throwing roses as missiles. This subject does not, as is sometimes claimed, appear in the \"Roman de la Rose\", and first appears in art not long before the date of the casket, as one of few secular scenes in the illuminated manuscript known as the Peterborough Psalter of 1299–1328. But such a scene was staged and acted out by \"many gentlemen and twelve of the fairest and gayest ladies of Padua\" as part of a festival at Treviso in 1214, a century earlier. In the center knights joust in front of ladies.\n\nThe scene at right has differing interpretations: either the victor, whose shield carried three roses, receives a bouquet of roses from a lady as prize, or, more likely, the tournament continues, now between the ladies, fighting with flowers, and the knights using \"oak branches\". This is the only scene on the lid that differs in the British Museum and Paris caskets, where the siege of the castle continues in the section at furthest right. A variation of this set of scenes has examples in the Cleveland Museum of Art, Detroit Institute of Arts, Château de Boulogne-sur-Mer, Walker Art Gallery and the Metropolitan Museum of Art: in the latter (17.190.173) there is an elopement scene at left, then the two central sections are the tournament, with the attack on the Castle of Love behind the elopement at left, and in the last section on the right.\n\nThe front of the casket has, from the left: Aristotle teaching Alexander the Great, Phyllis riding Aristotle, watched by Alexander from a window, and at the right, old people arriving at the Fountain of Youth, and young naked people in it. \"Phyllis riding Aristotle\" is the \"quintessential image from the Power of Women topos\", which was beginning its long career in art at this time. The Fountain of Youth is a regularly occurring scene, of Eastern origin, that shows old people being carried to a miraculous spring which immediately turns them into beautiful young people, one of the relatively few scenes in medieval art where figures are not just \"naked\" but \"nude\". All three scenes are the same in the British Museum casket, and the Walters also has a side from a French casket of similar date but less high-quality carving, showing the first two of these scenes, but changing the last (Walters 71196, shown below). The Walters also has mirror-cases with other examples of the \"Siege of the Castle of Love\" and the \"Fountain of Youth\".\nThe rear side of the casket contains scenes from Arthurian romance described in the Courtauld Institute database of Gothic ivories as: \"Gawain in armour fighting the lion; Lancelot crossing the sword bridge, with spears falling from the sky; Gawain on the perilous bed; bed on wheels and with bells; lion; shield with a lion's paw; spears falling from the sky; the three maidens at the Château Merveil\". The sword bridge features in \"Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart\" by Chrétien de Troyes, and the perilous bed in his \"Perceval, the Story of the Grail\". Both the Walters and British Museum caskets have the same scenes and compositions here, which both depart from the literary sources by having the rain of swords falling not only on Gawain on the bed, but also on Lancelot on the bridge, suggesting that the ivory-carver's or designer's contact with the literature was indirect.\n\nThe two ends show other Arthurian scenes: the adulterous lovers Tristan and Iseult are spied upon by Iseult's husband King Mark of Cornwall, hiding in a tree; his face can be seen reflected in the pool below, which they see, enabling them to switch to innocent conversation. This end also has a scene with a wounded unicorn, a maiden and a man with holding a spear which has been run through the unicorn, in a version of the subject of \"The Hunt of the Unicorn\" where the maiden has been used to lure the unicorn to his death. The other end has a scene with Galahad.\n\nThe Courtauld Institute maintains a database of over 5,000 Gothic ivories. The database catalogues the surviving composite caskets and the known fragments as follows:\n\n\nIn addition there are fragments from a dismantled casket, known from an 18th-century engraving, whose locations are unknown, save the back panel which is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art (2003.131.2):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4363081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4363081", "title": "Conflict thesis", "text": "Conflict thesis\n\nThe \"conflict thesis\" is a historiographical approach in the history of science which maintains that there is an intrinsic intellectual conflict between religion and science and that the relationship between religion and science inevitably leads to hostility; examples to support this thesis have commonly been drawn from the relations between science and religion in Western Europe. The thesis retains support among some scientists and in the public, while most historians of science reject the thesis, especially in its original strict form.\n\nIn the 1800s the relationship between science and religion became an actual formal topic of discourse, while before this no one had pitted science against religion or vice versa, though occasional interactions were expressed in the past. More specifically, it was around the mid-1800s that discussion of \"science and religion\" first emerged because before this time, \"science\" still included moral and metaphysical dimensions, was not inherently linked to the scientific method, and the term \"scientist\" did not emerge until 1834. The scientist John William Draper and the writer Andrew Dickson White were the most influential exponents of the conflict thesis between religion and science. Draper had been the speaker in the British Association meeting of 1860 which led to the famous confrontation between Bishop Wilberforce and Huxley over Darwinism, and in America \"the religious controversy over biological evolution reached its most critical stages in the late 1870s\". In the early 1870s Draper was invited by American science popularizer Edward Livingston Youmans to write a \"History of the Conflict between Religion and Science\" (1874), a book replying to contemporary issues in Roman Catholicism, such as the doctrine of papal infallibility, and mostly criticizing what he claimed to be anti-intellectualism in the Catholic tradition, but also making criticisms of Islam and of Protestantism. Draper's preface summarises the conflict thesis:\n\nIn 1874 White published his thesis in and in book form as \"The Warfare of Science\":\n\nIn 1896, White published \"A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom\", the culmination of over thirty years of research and publication on the subject, criticizing what he saw as restrictive, dogmatic forms of Christianity. In the introduction, White emphasized that he arrived at his position after the difficulties of assisting Ezra Cornell in establishing a university without any official religious affiliation.\n\nJames Joseph Walsh, M.D., the historian of medicine, criticized White's perspective as anti-historical in \"The Popes and Science; the History of the Papal Relations to Science During the Middle Ages and Down to Our Own Time\" (1908), a book dedicated to Pope Pius X:\n\nIn \"God and Nature\" (1986), David Lindberg and Ronald Numbers report that \"White's \"Warfare\" apparently did not sell as briskly as Draper's \"Conflict\", but in the end it proved more influential, partly, it seems, because Draper's strident anti-Catholicism soon dated his work and because White's impressive documentation gave the appearance of sound scholarship\". During the 20th century, historians' acceptance of the conflict thesis declined until rejected in the 1970s. David B. Wilson notes:\n\nIn his course on science and religion, historian Lawrence Principe summarizes Draper's and White's works by saying, \"While we can look today with astonishment upon the shoddy character of Draper and White’s writings, their books have had enormous impact, and we can’t deny that. Much of this is due to their great success in their creating a myth for science as a religion. Their myth of science as a religion is replete with battles, and martyrdoms, and saints, and creeds. And as we know, or should know, myths are often much more powerful than historical realities.\"\nIn the coursebook, Principe writes, \"No serious historians of science or of the science-religion issue today maintain the warfare thesis...The origins of the warfare thesis lie in the late 19th century, specifically in the work of two men - John William Draper and Andrew Dickson White. These men had specific political purposes in mind when arguing their case, and the historical foundations of their work are unreliable.\"\n\nRegarding the scholarship of Draper's work, Principe says\nPrincipe's summary comment on Draper's work at the end of his coursebook reads: \"The book that started the conflict myth. Take a sense of humor and/or a stiff drink with this dated bit of melodrama.\"\n\nHistorians of science today have moved away from a conflict model, which is based mainly on two historical episodes (those involving Galileo and Darwin) in favor of a \"complexity\" model, because religious figures took positions on both sides of each dispute and there was no overall aim by any party involved in discrediting religion. Biologist Stephen Jay Gould said: \"White's and Draper's accounts of the actual interaction between science and religion in Western history do not differ greatly. Both tell a tale of bright progress continually sparked by science. And both develop and use the same myths to support their narrative, the flat-earth legend prominently among them\". In a summary of the historiography of the conflict thesis, Colin A. Russell, the former President of Christians in Science, said that \"Draper takes such liberty with history, perpetuating legends as fact that he is rightly avoided today in serious historical study. The same is nearly as true of White, though his prominent apparatus of prolific footnotes may create a misleading impression of meticulous scholarship\".\n\nIn \"Science & Religion\", Gary Ferngren proposes a complex relationship between religion and science:\n\nSome modern historians of science (such as Peter Barker, Bernard R. Goldstein, and Crosbie Smith) propose that scientific discoveries - such as Kepler's laws of planetary motion in the 17th century, and the reformulation of physics in terms of energy, in the 19th century - were driven by religion. Religious organizations and clerics figure prominently in the broad histories of science, until the professionalization of the scientific enterprise, in the 19th century, led to tensions between scholars taking religious and secular approaches to nature. Even the prominent examples of religion's apparent conflict with science, the Galileo affair (1614) and the Scopes trial (1925), were not pure instances of conflict between science and religion, but included personal and political facts in the development of each conflict.\n\nThe Galileo affair is one of the few examples commonly used by advocates of the conflict thesis. Maurice Finocchiaro writes that the Galileo affair epitomizes the common view of \"the conflict between enlightened science and obscurantist religion,\" and that this view promotes \"the myth that alleges the incompatibility between science and religion.\" Finocchiaro writes, \"I believe that such a thesis is erroneous, misleading, and simplistic,\" and refers to John Draper, Andrew White, Voltaire, Einstein, Bertrand Russell, and Karl Popper as writers or icons who have promoted it. Finocchiaro also describes as mythical the notion that Galileo \"saw\" the earth's motion, since this direct observation was only possible in the 21st century, and the idea that Galileo was \"imprisoned,\" since he was \"actually held under house arrest.\" He notes that the situation was complex and objections to the Copernican system included scientific, philosophical, and theological arguments.\n\nThe Galileo affair was a sequence of events, beginning around 1610, culminating with the trial and condemnation of Galileo Galilei by the Roman Catholic Inquisition in 1633 for his support of heliocentrism. In 1610, Galileo published his \"Sidereus Nuncius (Starry Messenger)\", describing the surprising observations that he had made with the new telescope, namely the phases of Venus and the Galilean moons of Jupiter. With these observations he promoted the heliocentric theory of Nicolaus Copernicus (published in \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" in 1543). Galileo's initial discoveries were met with opposition within the Catholic Church, and in 1616 the Inquisition declared heliocentrism to be formally heretical. Heliocentric books were banned and Galileo was ordered to refrain from holding, teaching or defending heliocentric ideas.\n\nPope Urban VIII had been an admirer and supporter of Galileo, and there is evidence he did not believe the inquisition's declaration rendered heliocentrism a heresy. Urban may have rather viewed Heliocentrism as a potentially dangerous or rash doctrine that nevertheless had utility in astronomical calculations. In 1632 Galileo, now an old man, published his \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems\", which implicitly defended heliocentrism, and was popular. Pope Urban VIII had asked that his own views on the matter be included in Galileo's book, and were voiced by a character named \"Simplicio\" who was a simpleton. This angered the Pope and weakened Galileo's position politically. Responding to mounting controversy over theology, astronomy and philosophy, the Roman Inquisition tried Galileo in 1633 and found him \"vehemently suspect of heresy\", sentencing him to indefinite imprisonment. Galileo's \"Dialogue\" was banned, the publication of his past or future works forbidden, he was ordered to \"abjure, curse and detest\" heliocentric ideas. Galileo was kept under house arrest until his death in 1642.\n\nObservations that favored the Copernican model over the Ptolemaic or other alternative models accumulated over time: the emergence of Newtonian mechanics later in the 17th century, the observation of the stellar aberration of light by James Bradley in the 18th century, the analysis of orbital motions of binary stars by William Herschel in the 19th century, and the accurate measurement of the stellar parallax in 19th century. According to physicist Christopher Graney, Galileo's own observations did not actually support the Copernican view, but were more consistent with Tycho Brahe's hybrid model where the Earth didn't move, and everything else circled around it and the Sun. Copernicus' work \"De revolutionibus\" remained on the Index of banned books until 1758.\n\nThis thesis is still held to be true in whole or in part by some prominent contemporary scientists such as Stephen Hawking who has said \"There is a fundamental difference between religion, which is based on authority, [and] science, which is based on observation and reason. Science will win because it works.\" Others, such as Steven Weinberg, grant that it is possible for science and religion to be compatible since some prominent scientists are also religious, but he sees some significant tensions that potentially weaken religious beliefs overall.\n\nA study done on scientists from 21 American universities showed that most did not perceive conflict between science and religion. In the study, the strength of religiosity in the home in which a scientist was raised, current religious attendance, peers' attitudes toward religion, all had an impact on whether or not scientists saw religion and science as in conflict. Scientists who had grown up with a religion and retained that identity or had identified as spiritual or had religious attendance tended to perceive less or no conflict. However, those not attending religious services were more likely to adopt a conflict paradigm. Additionally, scientists were more likely to reject conflict thesis if their peers held positive views of religion.\n\nScience historian Ronald Numbers suggests the conflict theory lingers in a popular belief, inclusive of scientists and clerics alike, and that while history reflects an intrinsic and inevitable intellectual conflict between (Judeo-Christian) religion and science, it is perpetuated by the polemics surrounding controversies involving creation–evolution, stem cells, and birth control. Many religious groups have made statements regarding the compatibility of religion and science, urging, for example, \"school board members to preserve the integrity of the science curriculum by affirming the teaching of the theory of evolution as a core component of human knowledge. We ask that science remain science and that religion remain religion, two very different, but complementary, forms of truth.\" The Magis Center for Reason and Faith was founded specifically to apply science in support of belief in a deity and the Christian religion. Some scholars such as Brian Stanley and Denis Alexander propose that mass media are partly responsible for popularizing conflict theory, most notably the Flat-earth myth that prior to Columbus people believed the Earth was flat. David C. Lindberg and Numbers point out that \"there was scarcely a Christian scholar of the Middle Ages who did not acknowledge Earth's sphericity and even know its approximate circumference\". Numbers gives the following as mistakes arising from conflict theory that have gained widespread currency: \"the Church prohibited autopsies and dissections during the Middle Ages\", \"the rise of Christianity killed off ancient science\", and \"the medieval Christian church suppressed the growth of the natural sciences\". Some Christian writers, notably Reijer Hooykaas and Stanley Jaki, have argued that Christianity was important, if not essential, for the rise of modern science. Lindberg and Numbers, however, see this apologetical writing as lacking in careful historical study and overstating the case for a connection.\n\nResearch on perceptions of science among the American public concludes that most religious groups see no general epistemological conflict with science, and that they have no differences with nonreligious groups in propensity to seek out scientific knowledge, although there may be epistemic or moral conflicts when scientists make counterclaims to religious tenets. The Pew Center made similar findings and also noted that the majority of Americans (80–90%) strongly support scientific research, agree that science makes society and individual's lives better, and 8 in 10 Americans would be happy if their children were to become scientists. Even strict creationists tend to express very favorable views towards science. A study of US college students concluded that the majority of undergraduates in both the natural and social sciences do not see conflict between science and religion. Another finding in the study was that it is more likely for students to move from a conflict perspective to an independence or collaboration perspective than vice versa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24525988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24525988", "title": "Eric T. Olson (philosopher)", "text": "Eric T. Olson (philosopher)\n\nEric T. Olson is an American philosopher who specializes in metaphysics and philosophy of mind. Olson is best known for his research in the field of personal identity, and for advocating animalism, the theory that human beings are animals. Olson received a BA from Reed College and a PhD from Syracuse University. Olson is currently a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, a position he has held since 2003, and previously held a lectureship at Cambridge University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26959319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26959319", "title": "Fangshi", "text": "Fangshi\n\nFangshi () was a category of Chinese technical specialists that flourished from the third century BCE to the fifth century CE. English translations of \"fangshi\" encompass alchemist, astrologer, diviner, exorcist, geomancer, doctor, magician, mountebank, monk, mystic, necromancer, occultist, omenologist, physician, physiognomist, technician, technologist, thaumaturge, and wizard.\n\nThe Chinese word \"fangshi\" combines \"fang\" \"direction; side; locality; place; region; formula; (medical) prescription; recipe; method; way\" and \"shi\" \"scholar; intelligentsia; gentleman; officer; yeoman; soldier; person trained in a certain field\".\n\nMany English-language texts transliterate this word as \"fangshi\" or \"fang-shih\", but some literally translate it.\n\nThe Chinese historian Yu Ying-shih (1965:105) concludes that \"as a general term, \"fang-shih\" may be translated 'religious Taoists' or 'popular Taoists,' since all such arts were later incorporated in the Taoist religion. Only in specific cases depending on contexts, should the term be translated 'magicians,' 'alchemists,' or 'immortalists.'\" \"Fangshi\" \"is an elusive term that defies a consistent translation\" (Toh 2010:4).\n\nThere is general agreement that the \"shi\" in \"fangshi\" 方士 means \"master; gentleman; trained specialist\" (cf. \"Daoshi\" \"Daoist priest; diviner\"), but considerable disagreement about the meaning of \"fang\".\n\nThe etymology of \"fangshi\" is \"subject to various interpretations\", writes DeWoskin.\nBy the end of the Later Chou, there are several occurrences of the word \"fang\" in two new binomes, \"fang-shu\" [方書] and \"fang-shuo\" [方說], literally, \"fang books\" and \"fang theories\". The word \"fang\" in its various common contexts meant \"efficacious,\" \"formulaic,\" \"parallel,\" \"correlative,\" \"comparative,\" \"medicinal,\" \"spiritual,\" or \"esoteric.\" Throughout archaic times, the word also occurs commonly in the compound \"ssu-fang\" [四方], meaning four outlying areas, and hence refers to people, places, and cultures removed from the central court. Each of these meanings is potentially a factor in the etymology of the term.\" (1983:1–2) \nHarper says \"DeWoskin's attempt at a definition for \"fang shih\" which admits every possible meaning of \"fang\" into its analysis renders the term meaningless\".\nBased upon words that Han texts use to describe occult practices, \"fangshu\" 方書 \"recipe book; treatise on an art/skill; collection of medical prescriptions\" and \"fangban\" 方板 \"recipe tablet; treatise on an art/skill\", Harper concludes, \"The possession of writings containing occult knowledge which might be revealed to select patrons was the chief characteristic of all who were known as \"fang shih\".\"\nDescribing the background of \"fangshi\", DeWoskin suggests an \"other\" etymology.\nIt is possible to group the antecedents of fang-shih thought and techniques into three distinct areas: astrology and calendrics; the practices of \"wu\" mediums and conjury; and pharmaceutical and hygienic medicine. Virtually all the fang-shih prominent enough to be included in dynastic histories specialized in only one of these areas. Because the three areas are not historically related, and the typical fang-shih does not embrace them all, the grouping suggests that the common sense of the name \"fang-shih\" was somewhat akin to \"others,\" and did not attach to any readily definable school or tradition. (1983:6)\nHarper also faults this hypothesis, concluding, \"A more judicious examination could not lead to this sort of \"reductio ad absurdum\".\"\n\nSummarizing how Chinese authors used the word \"fangshi\" from the Han through the Song Dynasties, Sivin lists four general criteria. \n\n\"Fangshi\" are first recorded in early Chinese canonical \"Twenty-Four Histories\": Sima Qian's (c. 91 BCE) \"Shiji\" 史記 \"Records of the Grand Historian\", Ban Gu's (82 CE) \"Hanshu\" 漢書 \"Book of Han\", Chen Shou's (289 CE) \"Sanguozhi\" 三國志 \"Records of Three Kingdoms\", and Fan Ye's (445 CE) \"Houhanshu\" 後漢書 \"Book of Later Han\". DeWoskin (1983) translated \"fangshi\" biographies from the latter three histories, but some reviewers (e.g., Boltz 1985 and Harper 1986) criticized him for ignoring Ngo's (1976) French translation of the same biographies.\n\nThese historical texts document that during the late Warring States period (475–221 BCE), \"fangshi\" originated in northeastern China and specialized in \"xian\" 仙 \"immortality; transcendence\" techniques. During the Qin Dynasty (221–206 BCE) and Han Dynasty (206 BCE-220 CE), \"fangshi\" were patronized by emperors who sought the elixir of immortality. By the middle of the Six Dynasties Period (220–569 CE), the role of \"fangshi\" had declined and their techniques had been adapted into Daoist religion and traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nThe word \"fangshi\" first appears in the \"Fengshan shu\" 封禪書 \"Treatise on the Feng and Shan Sacrifices\" of the \"Records of the Grand Historian\". This context concerns Qin Shi Huang (r. 221–210 BCE), the first Qin emperor traveling and performing sacrifices in the northeastern coastal states of Qi 齊 and Yan 燕 (present-day Shandong, Hebei, and Liaoning). During the era of King Wei (r. c. 356–320 BCE) and King Xuan (r. 319–301 BCE) of Qi and King Zhao (r. 311–279 BCE) of Yan, \"fangshi\" claimed to have studied the techniques of Zou Yan, who systematized Yin-Yang and the Five Phases.\nSong Wuji, Zhengbo Qiao, Chong Shang, Xianmen Gao, and Zui Hou were all men of Yan who practiced magic and followed the way of the immortals, discarding their mortal forms and changing into spiritual beings by means of supernatural aid. Zou Yan won fame among the feudal lords for his theories of the \"yin\" and \"yang\" and the succession of the five elements, but the [方士] magicians who lived along the seacoast of Qi and Yan, though they claimed to transmit his teachings, were unable to understand them. Thus from this time there appeared a host of men, too numerous to mention, who expounded all sorts of weird and fantastic theories and went to any lengths to flatter the rulers of the day and to ingratiate themselves with them. (tr. Watson 1996:14)\nCompare Welch's (1957:96) translation, \"they practiced the Tao of recipes and immortality (\"fang hsien tao\" [方僊道]). Their bodies were released, dissolved, and transformed. They relied on serving ghosts (\"kuei\" [鬼]) and spirits (\"shen\" [神]).\" These early \"fangshi\" asserted to know of three divine mountains where the elixir of immortality existed, Penglai 蓬萊, Fangzhang 方丈, and Yingzhou 瀛洲 in the Bohai Sea.\nFrom the age of Kings Wei and Xuan of Qi and King Zhao of Yan, men were sent from time to time to set out to sea and search for the islands of Penglai, Fangzhang, and Yingzhou. These were three spirit mountains which were supposed to exist in the Gulf of Bohai. They were not very far from the land of men, it was said, but the difficulty was that, whenever a boat was about to touch their shores, a wind would always spring up and drive it away. In the past, people said, there had been men who succeeded in reaching the, and found them peopled by fairy sprits who possessed the elixir of immortality. All the plants and birds and animals of the islands were white, and the palaces and gates were made of gold and silver. Seen from afar, the three spirit mountains looked like clouds but, as one drew closer, they seemed instead to be down under the water. In any event, as soon as anyone got near to them, the wind would suddenly come and drag the boat away, so that in the end no one could ever reach them. (tr. Watson 1996:14)\nThe \"Shiji\" also records that the Qin emperor dispatched the \"fangshi\" Xu Fu 徐福 to obtain the elixir of life from the \"xian\" Anqi Sheng who lived on Mount Penglai in 219 BCE, and then sent Lu Sheng 盧生 \"Master Lu\" in 215 BCE. The emperor subsequently dispatched three other \"fangshi\" expeditions to the spirit islands, but none returned to China.\n\nEmperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BCE) lavishly patronized \"fangshi\", writes DeWoskin (1985:378), \"to such an extent that virtually anyone with a plausible 'secret tradition' rushed to court to collect his reward.\" Emperor Wu's uncle and advisor Liu An (179–122 BCE, compiler of the \"Huainanzi\") gathered \"several thousand\" \"fangshi\" and compiled their techniques of \"shenxian\" 神仙 \"spirit transcendence\" and \"huangbai\" 黃白 \"alchemy \". Two famous \"fangshi\" advised Emperor Wu to emulate the legendary Yellow Emperor's practices. The alchemist Li Shaojun attempted to recreate the Yellow Emperor's rite to transform cinnabar into gold. The architect Gongyu Dai 公玉帶 claimed to have the Yellow Emperor's plans for a 12-story pentagonal hall, which Emperor Wu had rebuilt in 102 BCE.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi (2008:407–408) elucidates the \"fangshi\" category's chronological development by contrasting its place in these early Chinese histories. In the \"Records of the Grand Historian\", \"the methods (\"fang\" 方) used by the \"fangshi\" generally concerned demons and spirits: methods for retreating from old age (\"quelao fang\" 却老方), methods involving demons and gods (\"guishen fang\" 鬼神方), and methods for gods, monsters and anomalies (\"shen guai qi fang\" 神怪奇方).\" The \"Book of Later Han\" chapter on \"fangshi\" broadened the category to include omen and portent techniques such as \"fengjiao\" 風角 \"wind angles\". The \"Records of Three Kingdoms\" combined the Han historical categories of \"fangshi\" 方士 and \"shushu\" 數術 \"numbers and arts\" (divination and omenology) into a chapter on \"fangshu\" 方術 \"methods and arts\". \"Thus, the \"fangshi\", originally experts in matters of the spirits, came by the late Han to include the ubiquitous experts in detecting shifts in the balance of the natural world.\"\n\n方士 Fangshi originated in southern China. Sin was punished by ailments in the view of the Heavenly Masters. The Shangqing syncretized the Heavenly Masters with fangshi. Buddhism, Fangshi, and Heavenly Masters were synchronized in Lingbao. Buddhism, Celestial Masters and fangshi all contributed to the religious canon of Lingbao. Celestial Master petitions to divinities were copied by the canon of the Lingbao and fangshi rites were also copied by them.\n\n\"Fangshi\" employed numerous techniques, methods, and practices. DeWoskin (1983:22-29) lists forty-two mentioned in historical biographies of \"fangshi\". Some are familiar (e.g., dunjia 遁甲 \"Evading Stems; sexagenary cycle divination\" and \"wuyi\" 巫醫 \"Medium Healing; shamanic medicine\"), while others are obscure. For instance, DeWoskin explains \"fengjiao\" 風角 \"Wind Angles\" divination.\n\"Wind Angles (Feng-chiao)\": The wind from eight angles (four sides and four corners) is observed for its direction, strength, and other qualities. ... The nature of the analysis is still to be determined, but some sources link the practice to expertise in the five tones (\"wu-yin\"), specifically the ability to hear and differentiate pitches that are inaudible to most people. (1983:27) \nCsikszentmihalyi (2008:408) clarifies \"fengjiao\". \"This practice, which may date back to the Shang dynasty, involves using the temperature, strength, and changes in direction in seasonal winds to determine the local increase and decrease in Yin and Yang \"qi\".\" The Yinqueshan Han Slips, discovered in 1972, contain manuscripts about \"fengjiao\" and \"nayin\" 納音 \"Matching Sounds\".\n\nCiting examples of the techniques named \"tuibu\" 推步 \"astrology\" and \"tingzhuan\" 筳篿 \"cleromancy\", Harper says \"inaccuracy abounds\" in DeWoskin's translations.\nWhat is the reader to think, for example, when DeWoskin translates the term \"t'ui pu\" as \"astral influences\" and explains that it relates to \"projections from sky readings\" (p. 23)? A more literal rendering of \"t'ui pu\" would be \"plotting the paces\" and the term refers primarily to determining the paths of the sun, moon, and planets. \"T'ing chuan\" (\"bamboo twisters\" in DeWoskin's translation) is identified as \"a type of crack making\" and DeWoskin gives the following fuller description of the technique: \"This technique is one of a number of crack and fracture-reading approaches. Sections of bamboo are broken and the resultant cracks are read\" (p. 27). In fact, \"t'ing chuan\" refers to a form of divination by lots, similar to divination with yarrow stalks, in which the counters are slivers of broken bamboo or sometimes twigs broken off plants. DeWoskin appears to have made up his own explanation. His brief summations of other techniques are similarly uninformative or inaccurate. (1986:396) \n\nSome \"fangshi\" practices like \"shefu\" 射覆 \"shoot cover\" were closer to parlor magic than esoteric techniques. DeWoskin explains\nThe repertory by which \"fang-shih\" won their patronage included not only storytelling, but glib dissertations on astrology, omenology, and esoteric philosophy and various performances of magical arts. The histories record many instances of a \"fang-shih\" challenge game, \"she-fu\" 射覆, where masters the likes of Tung-fang Shuo, Kuan Lu 管輅, and Guo P'u 郭璞 (276–324) guessed the identity of hidden objects before gatherings of dinner guests or skeptical officials. (1985:379)\n\nMany famous \"fangshi\" \"method masters\" are considered Daoists.\n\nThe term \"fangshi\" sometimes occurs in contemporary usage. For instance, Wong (1992) applies the \"fangshi\" tradition to explain the author Liu E 劉鶚 and his (1904) novel the \"Travels of Lao Can\".\n\nThe \"fangshi\" tradition has diverse origins and affiliations. When first recorded around the fourth century BCE, \"fangshi\" were connected with Zhou dynasty astrology, divination, and record-keeping. During the Qin and Han dynasties, \"fangshi\" developed many new techniques, which were gradually absorbed by Daoist religions (e.g., Shangqing School), Daoist movements (e.g., Way of the Five Pecks of Rice), Chinese alchemy (both internal \"Neidan\" and external \"Waidan\"), Buddhist meditation, and traditional Chinese medicine.\n\n\"The genealogy of the \"fangshi\" is complex\", Robinet (1997:37) writes. \"They go back to the archivist-soothsayers of antiquity, one of whom supposedly was Laozi himself; under the Shang and Zhou they were the only ones who knew divination and writing.\" DeWoskin describes how the \"fangshi\" consolidated several ancient Chinese traditions.\nTheir divination practices can be traced back to late Shang-dynasty oracle-bone culture, Chou-dynasty milfoil-stalk procedures, and Chou astrological and calendric technology. This historical connection between divination practices, especially calendric and astrological types, and the chronicling of events is reflected in the conspicuous literacy of the \"fang-shih\" and their propensity for authoring biographical, geographical, and other narratives. Their medical practices combine elements of the Confucian medical tradition (\"ju-i\" 儒醫) and popular medical practices, derived in large part from shamanic ritual. Hence they practiced a range of therapies from acupuncture and pharmacology to incantation and talismanic exorcism. Their immortality practices encompass both alchemical (\"wai-tan\" 外丹) and hygienic (\"nei-tan\" 內丹) techniques adumbrated in the Taoist classics and elaborated in the emerging religious Taoist movements. (1985:379) \n\nDaoist religions appropriated many \"fangshi\" techniques. Holmes Welch hypothesized that Daoism was a river that united four streams of philosophy, hygiene, alchemy, and Penglai mythology. \"Fangshi\" are associated with the latter two.\nIt was probably between 350 and 250 B.C. that the names of Lao Tzu, Chuang Tzu, and Lieh Tzu became associated with what we shall call \"philosophical Taoism\"; their books testified in turn to the existence of a \"hygiene school,\" which cultivated longevity through breathing exercises and gymnastics; early in the same period the theory of the Five Elements was propounded by Tsou Yen, whose followers are thought to have started research on the elixir of life; and lastly, along the northeastern coasts of China, ships began to sail out in search of the Isles of the Blest, hoping to return with the mushroom that \"prevented death\". (1957:89–90)\nWelch (1957:96–97) concludes that \"fangshi\" developed alchemy, \"although Tsou Yen gradually acquired alchemistical stature, he himself knew nothing of the art. It was probably developed by those of his followers who became interested in physical experimentation with the Five Elements. The first elixir they developed was cinnabar, or mercuric sulphide.\"\n\nJoseph Needham traced the origins of Daoism to an alliance between \"fangshi\", \"wu\" 巫 \"shamans; doctors\" and philosophers such as Laozi and Zhuangzi:\nAt the heart of ancient Taoism there was an artisanal element, for both the wizards and the philosophers were convinced that important and useful things could be achieved by using one's hands. They did not participate in the mentality of the Confucian scholar-administrator, who sat on high in his tribunal issuing orders and never employing his hands except in reading and writing. This is why it came about that wherever in ancient China one finds the sprouts of any of the natural sciences the Taoists are sure to be involved. The \"fang shih\" 方士 or 'gentlemen possessing magical recipes' were certainly Taoist, and they worked in all kinds of directions as star-clerk and weather-forecasters, men of farm-lore and wort-cunning, irrigators and bridge-builders, architects and decorators, but above all alchemists. Indeed the beginning of all alchemy rests with them if we define it, as surely we should, as the combination of macrobiotics and aurifaction. (2000:58) \nNeedham defined his \"carefully chosen\" words: \"macrobiotics\" \"the belief that, with the aid of botany, zoology, mineralogy, and alchemy, it is possible to prepare drugs or elixirs which will prolong life, giving longevity (\"shou\" 壽) or immortality (\"pu ssu\" 不死)\" and \"aurifaction\" \"the belief that it is possible to make gold from other quite different substances, notably the ignoble metals\".\n\nCsikszentmihalyi summarizes Daoist-\"fangshi\" connections,\nThe \"methods\" of the \"fangshi\" may be seen as forerunners of organized Taoist practices on several levels. In the Han, the concept of the Dao served to explain the efficacy of the myriad of newly forming disciplines, and many of these disciplines were the province of the \"fangshi\". This explains why the term \"daoshi\" (道士 masters of the Dao) was already beginning to replace the term \"fangshi\" (方士) in the \"Hanshu\", resulting in its gradual eclipse of the latter term. On a more concrete level, many specific techniques of spirit transcendence, medicine, and alchemy initially used by \"fangshi\" found their way into later Taoist practice. (2008:408-9) \n\nGu Yong 谷永 (d. 8 BCE), minister to Emperor Cheng of Han, specialist on the \"Yijing\", is known for harsh criticism of the contemporary \"fangshi\" practices:\n\nAll those occultists, who turn their backs on the right path of benevolence and correct duty, who do not revere the model of the Five Classics but who rather are brimming with claims about the strange and marvelous, about spirits and ghosts, who stand in unquestioning reverence of the sacrificial practices of every locale... who say that immortals are to be found in this world and who imbibe all manner of longevity drugs, who capriciously set out on distant quests and travel so high that their shadows are cast upwards... who have mastered the transformation of base metal to gold, who have made uniform the five colors and five stores within their bodies — those occultists cheat people and delude the masses.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1878793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1878793", "title": "Form criticism", "text": "Form criticism\n\nForm criticism as a method of biblical criticism classifies units of scripture by literary pattern and then attempts to trace each type to its period of oral transmission. Form criticism seeks to determine a unit's original form and the historical context of the literary tradition. \n\nHermann Gunkel (1862-1932), Martin Noth, Gerhard von Rad, and other scholars originally developed form criticism for Old Testament studies; they used it to supplement the documentary hypothesis with reference to its oral foundations. Karl Ludwig Schmidt, Martin Dibelius (1883-1947) and Rudolf Bultmann later applied form criticism to the Gospels.\n\nOver the past few decades, form criticism's emphasis on oral tradition has waned in Old Testament studies. This is largely because scholars are increasingly skeptical about our ability to distinguish the \"original\" oral traditions from the literary sources that preserve them. As a result, the method as applied to the Old Testament now focuses on the Bible's literary genres, becoming virtually synonymous with genre criticism.\n\nForm criticism begins by identifying a text's genre or conventional literary form, such as parables, proverbs, epistles, or love poems. It goes on to seek the sociological setting for each text's genre, its \"situation in life\" (German: \"Sitz im Leben\"). For example, the sociological setting of a law is a court, or the sociological setting of a psalm of praise (hymn) is a worship context, or that of a proverb might be a father-to-son admonition. Having identified and analyzed the text's genre-pericopes, form criticism goes on to ask how these smaller genre-pericopes contribute to the purpose of the text as a whole.\n\nAs developed by Rudolf Bultmann (1884–1976) and others, form criticism attempts to rediscover the original kernel of meaning of a text. Bultmann described this process as \"demythologising\", although the word must be used with caution. \"Myth\" is not intended to convey a sense of \"untrue\", but the significance of an event in the narrator's agenda. What, ultimately, does the writer mean by it?\n\nIn the case of the Canonical gospels, this demythologising aims to reveal the underlying kerygma or \"message\" conveyed by a passage: what does a Gospel say about the nature and significance of Christ and about his teaching? Form criticism thus attempts to reconstruct the theological opinions of the primitive church and of pre-talmudic Judaism.\n\nStudies based on form criticism state that the Evangelists drew upon oral traditions when composing the canonical gospels. This oral tradition consisted of several distinct components. Parables and aphorisms are the \"bedrock of the tradition.\" Pronouncement stories, scenes that culminate with a saying of Jesus, are more plausible historically than other kinds of stories about Jesus. Other sorts of stories include controversy stories, in which Jesus is in conflict with religious authorities; miracles stories, including healings, exorcisms, and nature wonders; call and commissioning stories; and legends. The oral model developed by the form critics drew heavily on contemporary theory of Jewish folkloric transmission of oral material, and as a result of this form criticism one can trace the development of the early gospel tradition. However, \"Today it is no exaggeration to claim that a whole spectrum of main assumptions underlying Bultmann's \"Synoptic Tradition\" must be considered suspect.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27669600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27669600", "title": "Frédérick Têtu", "text": "Frédérick Têtu\n\nFrédérick Têtu is a teacher born in the city of Québec (Qc, Canada) in 1967. He holds a B.A. and a master’s degree in philosophy from the Université Laval (Canada), and a bachelor of law (LL.B) from McGill University (Canada). He has done further studies in political science at Boston College (USA).\n\nIn 2017 he co-founded Quebec municipal party \"Québec 21\" to challenge sitting mayor Régis Labeaume. He also announced, on June 1st 2017, that he would run for a seat as municipal councilor.\n\nHowever, after giving a radio interview while highly intoxicated (alcohol) , he quit the campaign and never came back. In a post-interview, radio anchor Yannick Marceau said he kept Têtu in the studio to \"protect other drivers on the road\" signalling the candidate might otherwise have driven under influence . \n\n"}
{"id": "46710907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46710907", "title": "Hannah E. Hashkes", "text": "Hannah E. Hashkes\n\nDr. Hannah E. Hashkes is an Israeli philosopher of Jewish Thought.\n\nHashkes studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and wrote her PHD dissertation on American Pragmatism.\n\nHashkes has lectured in philosophy, Judaic Studies and Women’s studies in various colleges and universities in the United States and Israel.\n\nHer book, Rabbinic Discourse as a System of Knowledge, \"The Study of Torah is Equal to Them All\" was published by Brill in March 2015.\n"}
{"id": "206369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206369", "title": "Henry Longueville Mansel", "text": "Henry Longueville Mansel\n\nThe Very Reverend Henry Longueville Mansel, D.D. (6 October 18201 July 1871) was an English philosopher and ecclesiastic.\n\nHe was born at Cosgrove, Northamptonshire (where his father, also Henry Longueville Mansel, fourth son of General John Mansel, was rector). He was educated at Merchant Taylors' School, London and St John's College, Oxford. He took a double first in 1843, and became tutor of his college. He was appointed reader in moral and metaphysical philosophy at Magdalen College in 1855, and Waynflete Professor of Metaphysical Philosophy in 1859. He was a great opponent of university reform and of the Hegelianism which was then beginning to take root in Oxford. In 1867 he succeeded Arthur Penrhyn Stanley as regius professor of ecclesiastical history, and in 1868 he was appointed dean of St Paul's. He died in Cosgrove on the first of July 1871.\n\nThe philosophy of Mansel, like that of Sir William Hamilton, was mainly due to Aristotle, Immanuel Kant and Thomas Reid. Like Hamilton, Mansel maintained the purely formal character of logic, the duality of consciousness as testifying to both self and the external world, and the limitation of knowledge to the finite and \"conditioned.\" His doctrines were developed in his edition of Aldrich's \"Artis logicae rudimenta\" (1849) — his chief contribution to the reviving study of Aristotle — and in his \"Prolegomena logica: an Inquiry into the Psychological Character of Logical Processes\" (1851, 2nd ed. enlarged 1860), in which the limits of logic as the \"science of formal thinking\" are rigorously determined.\n\nIn his Bampton lectures on \"The Limits of Religious Thought\" (1858, 5th ed. 1867; Danish trans. 1888) he applied to Christian theology the metaphysical agnosticism which seemed to result from Kant's criticism, and which had been developed in Hamilton's \"Philosophy of the Unconditioned\". While denying all knowledge of the supersensuous, Mansel deviated from Kant in contending that cognition of the ego as it really is belongs among the facts of experience. Consciousness, he held — agreeing thus with the doctrine of \"natural realism\" which Hamilton developed from Reid — implies knowledge both of self and of the external world. The latter Mansel's psychology reduces to consciousness of our organism as extended; with the former is given consciousness of free will and moral obligation.\n\nThese lectures led Mansel to a bitter controversy with the Christian socialist theologian Frederick Maurice.\n\nA summary of Mansel's philosophy is contained in his article \"Metaphysics\" in the 5th edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1860). He also wrote\n\nHe contributed a commentary on the first two gospels to the \"Speaker's Commentary\" (1881).\n\nMansel was married to the daughter of Admiral Sir Robert Moorsom \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9629684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9629684", "title": "Historias de la Conquista del Mayab", "text": "Historias de la Conquista del Mayab\n\nHistorias de la Conquista del Mayab (\"Histories of the Conquest of the Mayab\") is a Mexican manuscript ostensibly written in 1725 by an otherwise unknown friar, Joseph de San Buena Ventura, who compiled it from various older sources. The manuscript is now regarded as a forgery created in the 1950s or 1960s, with information derived from a Spanish translation of Sylvanus G. Morley's 1947 book \"The Ancient Maya\". It is written on modern paper, which cannot date from earlier than the 19th century.\n\n\"Historias de la Conquista del Mayab\" appears to have been produced by the same forger as \"Las Memorias de Guerrero\", the \"Historia de la pazificacion de las tierras de los indios itzaes y las ganzias de el tayasal y de todos los pueblos de la alaguna en el año 1697\", and the Canek Manuscript, with which it bears a number of similarities.\n\nThe manuscript was acquired by the Archivo de Historia de México Condumex in Mexico City shortly after 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "2789545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2789545", "title": "Ivan Ilyin", "text": "Ivan Ilyin\n\nIvan Alexandrovich Ilyin (March 28, 1883 – December 21, 1954) was a Russian religious and political philosopher, White emigre publicist and an ideologue of the Russian All-Military Union.\n\nIvan Ilyin was born in Moscow in an aristocratic family that claimed Rurikid descent. His father, Alexander Ivanovich Ilyin, had been born and spent his childhood in the Grand Kremlin Palace since Ilyin's grandfather had served as the commandant of the Palace. Alexander Ilyin's godfather had been emperor Alexander III of Russia. Ivan Ilyin's mother, Caroline Louise née Schweikert von Stadion, was a German Russian and confessing Lutheran whose father, Julius Schweikert von Stadion, had been a Collegiate Councillor under the Table of Ranks. She converted to Russian Orthodoxy, took the name Yekaterina Yulyevna, and married Alexander Ilyin in 1880. Ivan Ilyin was brought up also in the centre of Moscow not far from the Kremlin in Naryshkin Lane. In 1901 he entered the Law faculty of the Moscow State University. Ilyin generally disapproved of the Russian Revolution of 1905 and did not participate actively in student political actions. While a student Ilyin became interested in philosophy under influence of Professor Pavel Ivanovich Novgorodtsev (1866-1924), who was a Christian philosopher of jurisprudence and a political liberal. In 1906 Ilyin graduated with a law degree, and from 1909 he began working there as a scholar.\n\nIn 1911, Ilyin moved for a year to Western Europe to work on his thesis: \"Crisis of rationalistic philosophy in Germany in the 19th century\". He then returned to work in the university and delivered a series of lectures called \"Introduction to the Philosophy of Law\". Novgorodtsev offered Ilyin to lecture on theory of general law at Moscow Commerce Institute. In total, he lectured at various schools for 17 hours a week.\n\nAt that time, Ilyin studied the philosophy of Hegel, particularly his philosophy of state and law. He regarded this work not only as a study of Hegel but also as preparation for his own work on theory of law. His thesis on Hegel was finished in 1916 and published in 1918.\n\nIn 1914, after the breakout of World War I, Professor Prince arranged a series of public lectures devoted to the \"ideology of the war\". Ilyin contributed to this with several lectures, the first of which was called \"The Spiritual Sense of the War\". He was an utter opponent of any war in general but believed that since Russia had already been involved in the war, the duty of every Russian was to support his country. Ilyin's position was different from that of many Russian jurists, who disliked Germany and Tsarist Russia equally.\n\nAt first Ilyin perceived the February Revolution as the liberation of the people. Along with many other intellectuals he generally approved of it. However, with the October Revolution complete, disappointment followed. On the Second Moscow Conference of Public Figures he said, \"The revolution turned into self-interested plundering of the state\". Later, he assessed the revolution as the most terrible catastrophe in the history of Russia, the collapse of the whole state. However, unlike many adherents of the old regime, Ilyin did not emigrate immediately. In 1918, Ilyin became a professor of law in Moscow University; his scholarly thesis on Hegel was published.\n\nAfter April 1918, Ilyin was imprisoned several times for alleged anti-communist activity. His teacher Novgorodtsev was also briefly imprisoned. In 1922, he was eventually expelled among some 160 prominent intellectuals, on the so-called \"philosophers' ship\".\n\nFrom 1922 to 1938 he lived in Berlin. He had a German mother and wrote as well in German as in Russian. Between 1923 and 1934 Ilyin worked as a professor of the Russian Scientific Institute in Berlin. He was offered the professorship in the Russian faculty of law in Prague under his teacher Pavel Novgorodtsev but he declined. He became the main ideologue of the Russian White movement in emigration and between 1927 and 1930 was a publisher and editor of the Russian-language journal \"(Russkiy Kolokol\", Russian Bell). He lectured in Germany and other European countries.\n\nIn 1934, the German Nazis fired Ilyin and put him under police surveillance. In 1938 with financial help from Sergei Rachmaninoff he was able to leave Germany and continue his work in Geneva, Switzerland. He died in Zollikon near Zürich on December 21, 1954.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin was personally involved in moving his remains back to Russia, and in 2009 consecrated his grave.\n\nIn exile, Ivan Ilyin argued that Russia should not be judged by the Communist danger it represented at that time but looked forward to a future in which it would liberate itself with the help of Christian Fascism. Starting from his 1918 thesis on Hegel's philosophy, he authored many books on political, social and spiritual topics pertaining to the historical mission of Russia. One of the problems he worked on was the question: what has eventually led Russia to the tragedy of the revolution? He answered that the reason was \"the weak, damaged self-respect\" of Russians. As a result, mutual distrust and suspicion between the state and the people emerged. The authorities and nobility constantly misused their power, subverting the unity of the people. Ilyin thought that any state must be established as a corporation in which a citizen is a member with certain rights and certain duties. Therefore, Ilyin recognized inequality of people as a necessary state of affairs in any country. But that meant that educated upper classes had a special duty of spiritual guidance towards uneducated lower classes. This did not happen in Russia.\n\nThe other point was the wrong attitude towards private property among common people in Russia. Ilyin wrote that many Russians believed that private property and large estates are gained not through hard labour but through power and maladministration of officials. Therefore, property becomes associated with dishonest behaviour.\n\nIn his 1949 article, Ilyin argued against both totalitarianism and \"formal\" democracy in favor of a \"third way\" of building a state in Russia:\n\nFor Ilyin to talk of a Ukraine separate from Russia as to be a mortal enemy of Russia. He disputed that an individual could choose their nationality any more than cells can decide whether they are part of a body.\n\nThe two above mentioned factors led to egalitarianism and to revolution. The alternative way of Russia according to Ilyin was to develop due \"conscience of law\" of an individual based on morality and religiousness. Ilyin developed his concept of the \"conscience of law\" for more than 20 years until his death. He understood it as a proper understanding of law by an individual and ensuing obedience to the law. During his life he refused to publish his major work \"About the Essence of Conscience of Law\" and continued to rewrite it. He considered the conscience of law as essential for the very existence of law. Without proper understanding of law and justice, the law would not be able to exist.\n\nAnother major work of Ilyin, \"On Monarchy\", was not finished. He planned to write a book concerning the essence of monarchy in the modern world and its differences from the republic consisting of twelve chapters, but he died having written the introduction and seven chapters. Ilyin argued that the main difference lay not in legal matters but in the conscience of law of common people. According to Ilyin, the main distinctions were the following:\n\nIlyin was a monarchist. He believed that monarchical conscience of law corresponds to such values as religious piety and family. His ideal was the monarch who would serve for the good of the country, would not belong to any party and would embody the union of all people, whatever their beliefs are.\n\nHowever he was critical of the monarchy in Russia. He believed that Nicholas II was to a large degree the one responsible for the collapse of Imperial Russia in 1917. His abdication and the subsequent abdication of his brother Mikhail Alexandrovich were crucial mistakes which led to the abolition of monarchy and consequent troubles.\n\nHe was also critical of many figures of the emigration, including Kirill Vladimirovich, Grand Duke of Russia, who had proclaimed himself the new tsar in exile.\n\nA number of Ilyin's works (including those written after the German defeat in 1945) advocated fascism. Ilyin saw Hitler as a defender of civilization from Bolshevism and approved the way Hitler had, in his view, derived his antisemitism from the ideology of the Russian Whites.\n\nAlthough Ilyin was related by marriage to several notable Jewish families he was accused of antisemitism by Roman Gul, a fellow émigré writer. According to a letter by Gul to Ilyin the former expressed extreme umbrage at Ilyin's suspicions that all those who disagreed with him were Jews.\n\nIn his article \"The main thing\" of \"Our Tasks\" Ilyin writes: \"It is impossible to build the great and powerful Russia on any hatred: not on social class hatred (social-democrats, communists, anarchists), nor on racial hatred (racists, antisemites), nor on political hatred.\"\n\nIlyin's views influenced other 20th-century Russian authors such as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn as well as many Russian nationalists. As of 2005, 23 volumes of Ilyin's collected works have been republished in Russia.\n\nThe Russian filmmaker Nikita Mikhalkov, in particular, was instrumental in propagating Ilyin's ideas in post-Soviet Russia. He authored several articles about Ilyin and came up with the idea of transferring his remains from Switzerland to the Donskoy Monastery in Moscow, where the philosopher had dreamed to find his last retreat. The ceremony of reburial was held in October 2005.\n\nFollowing the death of Ilyin's wife in 1963, Ilyin scholar Nikolai Poltoratzky had Ilyin's manuscripts and papers brought from Zurich to Michigan State University, where he was a professor of Russian. In May 2006, MSU transferred Ilyin's papers to the Russian Culture Fund, affiliated with the Russian Ministry of Culture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18972136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18972136", "title": "Ivo Urbančič", "text": "Ivo Urbančič\n\nIvo Urbančič (12 November 1930 – 7 August 2016) was a Slovenian philosopher. He is considered by many to be one of the fathers of the phenomenological school in Slovenia.\n\nBorn Ivan Urbančič in Robič near Kobarid, in what was then the Italian administrative region of Julian March to a peasant Slovene family, his family left the region when he was a child to escape Fascist persecution and moved to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. \n\nThey spent six years in the village of Bistrica in southwest Macedonia, where a colony of Slovene immigrants from the Julian March was established. In 1937, they moved to Slovenia, in the village of Črešnjevec near Slovenska Bistrica, where young Ivo met with Jože Pučnik, with whom he established a lifelong friendship.\n\nAfter finishing the technical high school in Kranj, he attended a one-year course in communication technology in Belgrade. In 1960, Pučnik convinced him to enroll in the University of Ljubljana, where he studied philosophy. In his student years, he became involved with a group of young intellectuals, known as the \"Critical generation\". In 1970, he obtained his PhD at the University of Zagreb. Between 1969-70, he studied at the University of Vienna, and between 1971-72 in Cologne where he worked with the philosopher Karl-Heinz Volkmann-Schluck. In 1964, he became a researcher at the Institute for Sociology and Philosophy at the University of Ljubljana. \n\nIn the late 1980s, he worked as an editor at the publishing house \"Slovenska matica\", where he supervised the translation and first edition of many major Western thinkers in Slovene language. Among others, he was instrumental in the publishing of the complete works of Nietzsche. In the early 1980s, he was one of the co-founders of the alternative review \"Nova revija\". In 1987, he was among the authors of the Contributions to the Slovenian National Program, an intellectual manifesto demanding a democratic, pluralistic and independent Slovenia. In 1989. he was among the co-founders of the Slovenian Democratic Union, one of the first democratic political parties opposing the Communist regime in Slovenia. \n\nUrbančič died in Ljubljana in 2016, aged 85.\n\nUrbančič was one of the first who introduced the thought of Heidegger to Slovenia. He also wrote several monographies on Nietzsche. Urbančič wrote several works on the history of philosophy in the Slovene Lands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19966735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19966735", "title": "Jan Van Bragt", "text": "Jan Van Bragt\n\nJan Van Bragt (1928–2007) was a scholar of Japanese religion and philosophy at the Nanzan Institute for Religion and Culture in Nagoya, Japan, where he served as its first acting director in 1976. He had earlier studied at Kyoto University (1965–1971), and later translated into English one of the master works of Kyoto School philosopher Nishitani Keiji, \"Religion and Nothingness\" (University of California Press, 1983). He was also a key member of the Japan Society for Buddhist-Christian Studies, serving as its president from 1989 to 1997.\n\nBorn in 1928 in Sint-Antonius-Brecht, Flanders, Belgium, Van Bragt joined the Congregation of the Immaculate Heart of Mary at the age of 18, was ordained a priest in 1952, then earned a master's degree from the Congregation's seminary, where he taught philosophy while doing doctoral research on Hegel at the University of Leuven, which awarded him a doctorate in 1961. He left right away for Japan, where he spent 18 months learning the language and another 18 months as an assistant pastor at Sakai Catholic Church near Osaka before beginning further academic work at Kyoto University.\n\n"}
{"id": "18248741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18248741", "title": "Jean-Baptiste de Mirabaud", "text": "Jean-Baptiste de Mirabaud\n\nJean-Baptiste de Mirabaud (1675, Paris – 24 June 1760, Paris) was a French writer and translator.\n\nHe studied with the Oratorians and fought at the battle of Steenkerque in 1692. A friend of Jean de La Fontaine, he wrote various works of literature, history and philosophy, but failed to publish them. The Duchess of Orléans (1677-1749) made him her secretary and put him in charge of her two daughters' educations. In 1724, he published a translation of \"Jerusalem Delivered\" by Torquato Tasso, which brought him much admiration and led to his election two years later to the Académie française. In 1741, his translation of \"Orlando Furioso\" by Ludovico Ariosto had a more mixed reception. Becoming secrétaire perpétuel to the Académie in 1742, he left this post in 1755 when he felt age no longer allowed him to carry it out.\n\nThe name of Mirabaud remains associated with that of Baron d'Holbach, who had his \"Système de la Nature\" published under Jean-Baptiste Mirabaud's name in 1770. Voltaire, who violently condemned the Baron's work, denounced the deception thus\" \"Alas! our good Mirabaud was not capable of writing a single page of the book of our redoutable adversary.\" »\n\nOn his death in 1760, Buffon gave him a glowing homage : \"Mirabaud always joined feeling to esprit, and we liked to read him just as we liked to hear him ; but he had so little attachment to what he produced, he so feared the noise and glare, that he sacrificed those which could contribute most to his glory . »\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15941", "title": "Jean-Jacques Rousseau", "text": "Jean-Jacques Rousseau\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau (, ; ; 28 June 1712 – 2 July 1778) was a Genevan philosopher, writer and composer. Born in Geneva, his political philosophy influenced the progress of the Enlightenment throughout Europe, as well as aspects of the French Revolution and the development of modern political and educational thought.\n\nHe befriended fellow philosophy writer Denis Diderot in 1742, and would later write about Diderot's romantic troubles in his autobiography, \"Confessions\".\n\nHis \"Discourse on Inequality\" and \"The Social Contract\" are cornerstones in modern political and social thought. Rousseau's sentimental novel \"Julie, or the New Heloise\" (1761) was important to the development of preromanticism and romanticism in fiction. His \"Emile, or On Education\" (1762) is an educational treatise on the place of the individual in society. Rousseau's autobiographical writings—the posthumously published \"Confessions\" (composed in 1769), which initiated the modern autobiography, and the unfinished \"Reveries of a Solitary Walker\" (composed 1776–1778)—exemplified the late-18th-century \"\", and featured an increased focus on subjectivity and introspection that later characterized modern writing.\n\nDuring the period of the French Revolution, Rousseau was the most popular of the philosophers among members of the Jacobin Club. He was interred as a national hero in the Panthéon in Paris, in 1794, 16 years after his death.\n\nRousseau was born in Geneva, which was at the time a city-state and a Protestant associate of the Swiss Confederacy. Since 1536, Geneva had been a Huguenot republic and the seat of Calvinism. Five generations before Rousseau, his ancestor Didier, a bookseller who may have published Protestant tracts, had escaped persecution from French Catholics by fleeing to Geneva in 1549, where he became a wine merchant.\nRousseau was proud that his family, of the \"moyen\" order (or middle-class), had voting rights in the city. Throughout his life, he generally signed his books \"Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Citizen of Geneva\".\n\nGeneva, in theory, was governed \"democratically\" by its male voting \"citizens\". The citizens were a minority of the population when compared to the immigrants, referred to as \"inhabitants\", whose descendants were called \"natives\" and continued to lack suffrage. In fact, rather than being run by vote of the \"citizens\", the city was ruled by a small number of wealthy families that made up the \"Council of Two Hundred\"; these delegated their power to a twenty-five member executive group from among them called the \"Little Council\".\n\nThere was much political debate within Geneva, extending down to the tradespeople. Much discussion was over the idea of the sovereignty of the people, of which the ruling class oligarchy was making a mockery. In 1707, a democratic reformer named Pierre Fatio protested this situation, saying \"a sovereign that never performs an act of sovereignty is an imaginary being\". He was shot by order of the Little Council. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's father, Isaac, was not in the city at this time, but Jean-Jacques's grandfather supported Fatio and was penalized for it.\n\nThe trade of watchmaking had become a family tradition by the time of Rousseau's father, Isaac Rousseau. Isaac followed his grandfather, father and brothers into the business, except for a short stint teaching dance as a dance master. Isaac, notwithstanding his artisan status, was well educated and a lover of music. \"A Genevan watchmaker\", Rousseau wrote, \"is a man who can be introduced anywhere; a Parisian watchmaker is only fit to talk about watches\".\n\nIn 1699, Isaac ran into political difficulty by entering a quarrel with visiting English officers, who in response drew their swords and threatened him. After local officials stepped in, it was Isaac who was punished, as Geneva was concerned with maintaining its ties to foreign powers.\n\nRousseau's mother, Suzanne Bernard Rousseau, was from an upper-class family. She was raised by her uncle Samuel Bernard, a Calvinist preacher. He cared for Suzanne after her father Jacques (who had run into trouble with the legal and religious authorities for fornication and having a mistress) died in his early thirties. In 1695, Suzanne had to answer charges that she had attended a street theater disguised as a peasant woman so she could gaze upon M. Vincent Sarrasin, whom she fancied despite his continuing marriage. After a hearing, she was ordered by the Genevan Consistory to never interact with him again. She married Rousseau's father at the age of 31. Isaac's sister had married Suzanne's brother eight years earlier, after she had become pregnant and they had been chastised by the Consistory. The child died at birth. Later, the young Rousseau was told a romantic fairy-tale about the situation by the adults in his family—a tale where young love was denied by a disapproving patriarch but that prevailed by sibling loyalty that, in the story, resulted in love conquering all and two marriages uniting the families on the same day. Rousseau never learnt the truth.\n\nRousseau was born on 28 June 1712, and he would later relate: \"I was born almost dying, they had little hope of saving me\". He was baptized on 4 July 1712, in the great cathedral. His mother died of puerperal fever nine days after his birth, which he later described as \"the first of my misfortunes\".\n\nHe and his older brother François were brought up by their father and a paternal aunt, also named Suzanne. When Rousseau was five, his father sold the house that the family had received from his mother's relatives. While the idea was that his sons would inherit the principal when grown up and he would live off the interest in the meantime, in the end the father took most of the substantial proceeds. With the selling of the house, the Rousseau family moved out of the upper-class neighborhood and moved into an apartment house in a neighborhood of craftsmen—silversmiths, engravers, and other watchmakers. Growing up around craftsmen, Rousseau would later contrast them favorably to those who produced more aesthetic works, writing \"those important persons who are called artists rather than artisans, work solely for the idle and rich, and put an arbitrary price on their baubles\". Rousseau was also exposed to class politics in this environment, as the artisans often agitated in a campaign of resistance against the privileged class running Geneva.\n\nRousseau had no recollection of learning to read, but he remembered how when he was 5 or 6 his father encouraged his love of reading:\n\nWitnessing the local townsfolk participate in militias made a big impression on Rousseau. Throughout his life, he would recall one scene where, after the volunteer militia had finished its manoeuvres, they began to dance around a fountain and most of the people from neighboring buildings came out to join them, including him and his father. Rousseau would always see militias as the embodiment of popular spirit in opposition to the armies of the rulers, whom he saw as disgraceful mercenaries.\n\nWhen Rousseau was 10, his father, an avid hunter, got into a legal quarrel with a wealthy landowner on whose lands he had been caught trespassing. To avoid certain defeat in the courts, he moved away to Nyon in the territory of Bern, taking Rousseau's aunt Suzanne with him. He remarried, and from that point Jean-Jacques saw little of him. Jean-Jacques was left with his maternal uncle, who packed him, along with his own son, Abraham Bernard, away to board for two years with a Calvinist minister in a hamlet outside Geneva. Here, the boys picked up the elements of mathematics and drawing. Rousseau, who was always deeply moved by religious services, for a time even dreamed of becoming a Protestant minister.\n\nVirtually all our information about Rousseau's youth has come from his posthumously published \"Confessions\", in which the chronology is somewhat confused, though recent scholars have combed the archives for confirming evidence to fill in the blanks. At age 13, Rousseau was apprenticed first to a notary and then to an engraver who beat him. At 15, he ran away from Geneva (on 14 March 1728) after returning to the city and finding the city gates locked due to the curfew.\n\nIn adjoining Savoy he took shelter with a Roman Catholic priest, who introduced him to Françoise-Louise de Warens, age 29. She was a noblewoman of Protestant background who was separated from her husband. As professional lay proselytizer, she was paid by the King of Piedmont to help bring Protestants to Catholicism. They sent the boy to Turin, the capital of Savoy (which included Piedmont, in what is now Italy), to complete his conversion. This resulted in his having to give up his Genevan citizenship, although he would later revert to Calvinism in order to regain it.\n\nIn converting to Catholicism, both De Warens and Rousseau were likely reacting to Calvinism's insistence on the total depravity of man. Leo Damrosch writes: \"An eighteenth-century Genevan liturgy still required believers to declare 'that we are miserable sinners, born in corruption, inclined to evil, incapable by ourselves of doing good'\". De Warens, a deist by inclination, was attracted to Catholicism's doctrine of forgiveness of sins.\n\nFinding himself on his own, since his father and uncle had more or less disowned him, the teenage Rousseau supported himself for a time as a servant, secretary, and tutor, wandering in Italy (Piedmont and Savoy) and France. During this time, he lived on and off with De Warens, whom he idolized and called his \"maman\". Flattered by his devotion, De Warens tried to get him started in a profession, and arranged formal music lessons for him. At one point, he briefly attended a seminary with the idea of becoming a priest.\n\nWhen Rousseau reached 20, De Warens took him as her lover, while intimate also with the steward of her house. The sexual aspect of their relationship (a \"ménage à trois\") confused Rousseau and made him uncomfortable, but he always considered De Warens the greatest love of his life. A rather profligate spender, she had a large library and loved to entertain and listen to music. She and her circle, comprising educated members of the Catholic clergy, introduced Rousseau to the world of letters and ideas. Rousseau had been an indifferent student, but during his 20s, which were marked by long bouts of hypochondria, he applied himself in earnest to the study of philosophy, mathematics, and music. At 25, he came into a small inheritance from his mother and used a portion of it to repay De Warens for her financial support of him. At 27, he took a job as a tutor in Lyon.\n\nIn 1742, Rousseau moved to Paris in order to present the Académie des Sciences with a new system of numbered musical notation he believed would make his fortune. His system, intended to be compatible with typography, is based on a single line, displaying numbers representing intervals between notes and dots and commas indicating rhythmic values. Believing the system was impractical, the Academy rejected it, though they praised his mastery of the subject, and urged him to try again. He befriended Denis Diderot that year, connecting over the discussion of literary endeavors.\nFrom 1743 to 1744, Rousseau had an honorable but ill-paying post as a secretary to the Comte de Montaigue, the French ambassador to Venice. This awoke in him a lifelong love for Italian music, particularly opera:\nRousseau's employer routinely received his stipend as much as a year late and paid his staff irregularly. After 11 months, Rousseau quit, taking from the experience a profound distrust of government bureaucracy.\n\nReturning to Paris, the penniless Rousseau befriended and became the lover of Thérèse Levasseur, a seamstress who was the sole support of her mother and numerous ne'er-do-well siblings. At first, they did not live together, though later Rousseau took Thérèse and her mother in to live with him as his servants, and himself assumed the burden of supporting her large family. According to his \"Confessions\", before she moved in with him, Thérèse bore him a son and as many as four other children (there is no independent verification for this number).\n\nRousseau wrote that he persuaded Thérèse to give each of the newborns up to a foundling hospital, for the sake of her \"honor\". \"Her mother, who feared the inconvenience of a brat, came to my aid, and she [Thérèse] allowed herself to be overcome\" (\"Confessions\"). In his letter to Madame de Francueil in 1751, he first pretended that he wasn't rich enough to raise his children, but in Book IX of the \"Confessions\" he gave the true reasons of his choice: \"I trembled at the thought of intrusting them to a family ill brought up, to be still worse educated. The risk of the education of the foundling hospital was much less\".\n\nTen years later, Rousseau made inquiries about the fate of his son, but no record could be found. When Rousseau subsequently became celebrated as a theorist of education and child-rearing, his abandonment of his children was used by his critics, including Voltaire and Edmund Burke, as the basis for \"ad hominem\" attacks.\n\nBeginning with some articles on music in 1749, Rousseau contributed numerous articles to Diderot and D'Alembert's great \"Encyclopédie\", the most famous of which was an article on political economy written in 1755.\n\nRousseau's ideas were the result of an almost obsessive dialogue with writers of the past, filtered in many cases through conversations with Diderot. In 1749, Rousseau was paying daily visits to Diderot, who had been thrown into the fortress of Vincennes under a \"lettre de cachet\" for opinions in his \"Lettre sur les aveugles\", that hinted at materialism, a belief in atoms, and natural selection. According to science historian Conway Zirkle, Rousseau saw the concept of natural selection \"as an agent for improving the human species.\"\n\nRousseau had read about an essay competition sponsored by the Académie de Dijon to be published in the \"Mercure de France\" on the theme of whether the development of the arts and sciences had been morally beneficial. He wrote that while walking to Vincennes (about three miles from Paris), he had a revelation that the arts and sciences were responsible for the moral degeneration of mankind, who were basically good by nature. Rousseau's 1750 \"Discourse on the Arts and Sciences\" was awarded the first prize and gained him significant fame.\n\nRousseau continued his interest in music. He wrote both the words and music of his opera \"Le devin du village\" (\"The Village Soothsayer\"), which was performed for King Louis XV in 1752. The king was so pleased by the work that he offered Rousseau a lifelong pension. To the exasperation of his friends, Rousseau turned down the great honor, bringing him notoriety as \"the man who had refused a king's pension\". He also turned down several other advantageous offers, sometimes with a brusqueness bordering on truculence that gave offense and caused him problems. The same year, the visit of a troupe of Italian musicians to Paris, and their performance of Giovanni Battista Pergolesi's \"La serva padrona\", prompted the Querelle des Bouffons, which pitted protagonists of French music against supporters of the Italian style. Rousseau as noted above, was an enthusiastic supporter of the Italians against Jean-Philippe Rameau and others, making an important contribution with his \"Letter on French Music\".\n\nOn returning to Geneva in 1754, Rousseau reconverted to Calvinism and regained his official Genevan citizenship. In 1755, Rousseau completed his second major work, the \"Discourse on the Origin and Basis of Inequality Among Men\" (the \"Discourse on Inequality\"), which elaborated on the arguments of the \"Discourse on the Arts and Sciences\".\n\nHe also pursued an unconsummated romantic attachment with the 25-year-old Sophie d'Houdetot, which partly inspired his epistolary novel, \"Julie, ou la nouvelle Héloïse\" (also based on memories of his idyllic youthful relationship with Mme de Warens). Sophie was the cousin and houseguest of Rousseau's patroness and landlady Madame d'Épinay, whom he treated rather highhandedly. He resented being at Mme. d'Épinay's beck and call and detested the insincere conversation and shallow atheism of the \"Encyclopedistes\" whom he met at her table. Wounded feelings gave rise to a bitter three-way quarrel between Rousseau and Madame d'Épinay; her lover, the journalist Grimm; and their mutual friend, Diderot, who took their side against Rousseau. Diderot later described Rousseau as being \"false, vain as Satan, ungrateful, cruel, hypocritical, and wicked... He sucked ideas from me, used them himself, and then affected to despise me\".\n\nRousseau's break with the \"Encyclopedistes\" coincided with the composition of his three major works, in all of which he emphasized his fervent belief in a spiritual origin of man's soul and the universe, in contradistinction to the materialism of Diderot, La Mettrie and D'Holbach. During this period, Rousseau enjoyed the support and patronage of Charles François Frédéric de Montmorency-Luxembourg and the Prince de Conti, two of the richest and most powerful nobles in France. These men truly liked Rousseau and enjoyed his ability to converse on any subject, but they also used him as a way of getting back at Louis XV and the political faction surrounding his mistress, Madame de Pompadour. Even with them, however, Rousseau went too far, courting rejection when he criticized the practice of tax farming, in which some of them engaged.\n\nRousseau's 800-page novel of sentiment, \"Julie, ou la nouvelle Héloïse\", was published in 1761 to immense success. The book's rhapsodic descriptions of the natural beauty of the Swiss countryside struck a chord in the public and may have helped spark the subsequent nineteenth-century craze for Alpine scenery. In 1762, Rousseau published \"Du Contrat Social, Principes du droit politique\" (in English, literally \"Of the Social Contract, Principles of Political Right\") in April. Even his friend Antoine-Jacques Roustan felt impelled to write a polite rebuttal of the chapter on Civil Religion in the \"Social Contract\", which implied that the concept of a Christian republic was paradoxical since Christianity taught submission rather than participation in public affairs. Rousseau helped Roustan find a publisher for the rebuttal.\n\nRousseau published \"Emile, or On Education\" in May. A famous section of \"Emile\", \"The Profession of Faith of a Savoyard Vicar\", was intended to be a defense of religious belief. Rousseau's choice of a Catholic vicar of humble peasant background (plausibly based on a kindly prelate he had met as a teenager) as a spokesman for the defense of religion was in itself a daring innovation for the time. The vicar's creed was that of Socinianism (or Unitarianism as it is called today). Because it rejected original sin and divine revelation, both Protestant and Catholic authorities took offense.\n\nMoreover, Rousseau advocated the opinion that, insofar as they lead people to virtue, all religions are equally worthy, and that people should therefore conform to the religion in which they have been brought up. This religious indifferentism caused Rousseau and his books to be banned from France and Geneva. He was condemned from the pulpit by the Archbishop of Paris, his books were burned and warrants were issued for his arrest. Former friends such as Jacob Vernes of Geneva could not accept his views, and wrote violent rebuttals.\n\nA sympathetic observer, David Hume \"professed no surprise when he learned that Rousseau's books were banned in Geneva and elsewhere\". Rousseau, he wrote, \"has not had the precaution to throw any veil over his sentiments; and, as he scorns to dissemble his contempt for established opinions, he could not wonder that all the zealots were in arms against him. The liberty of the press is not so secured in any country... as not to render such an open attack on popular prejudice somewhat dangerous.\"\n\nAfter Rousseau's \"Emile\" had outraged the French parliament, an arrest order was issued by parliament against him, causing him to flee to Switzerland. Subsequently, when the Swiss authorities also proved unsympathetic to him—condemning both \"Emile\", and also \"The Social Contract\"—Voltaire issued an invitation to Rousseau to come and reside with him, commenting that: \"I shall always love the author of the 'Vicaire savoyard' whatever he has done, and whatever he may do...Let him come here [to Ferney]! He must come! I shall receive him with open arms. He shall be master here more than I. I shall treat him like my own son.\"\n\nRousseau later expressed regret that he had not replied to Voltaire's invitation. In July 1762, after Rousseau was informed that he could not continue to reside in Bern, d'Alembert advised him to move to the Principality of Neuchâtel, ruled by Frederick the Great of Prussia. Subsequently, Rousseau accepted an invitation to reside in Môtiers, fifteen miles from Neuchâtel. On 11 July 1762, Rousseau wrote to Frederick, describing how he had been driven from France, from Geneva, and from Bern; and seeking Frederick's protection. He also mentioned that he had criticized Frederick in the past and would continue to be critical of Frederick in the future, stating however: \"Your Majesty may dispose of me as you like.\" Frederick, still in the middle of the Seven Years' War, then wrote to the local governor of Neuchatel, Marischal Keith who was a mutual friend of theirs:\n\nRousseau, touched by the help he received from Frederick, stated that from then onwards he took a keen interest in Frederick's activities. As the Seven Years' War was about to end, Rousseau wrote to Frederick again, thanking him for the help received and urging him to put an end to military activities and to endeavor to keep his subjects happy instead. Frederick made no known reply, but commented to Keith that Rousseau had given him a \"scolding\".\n\nFor more than two years (1762–1765) Rousseau lived at Môtiers, spending his time in reading and writing and meeting visitors such as James Boswell (December 1764). In the meantime, the local ministers had become aware of the apostasies in some of his writings, and resolved not to let him stay in the vicinity. The Neuchâtel Consistory summoned Rousseau to answer a charge of blasphemy. He wrote back asking to be excused due to his inability to sit for a long time due to his ailment. Subsequently, Rousseau's own pastor, Frédéric-Guillaume de Montmollin, started denouncing him publicly as the Antichrist. In one inflammatory sermon, Montmollin quoted Proverbs 15:8: \"The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is his delight\"; this was interpreted by everyone to mean that Rousseau's taking communion was detested by the Lord. The ecclesiastical attacks inflamed the parishioners, who proceeded to pelt Rousseau with stones when he would go out for walks. Around midnight of 6–7 September 1765, stones were thrown at the house Rousseau was staying in, and some glass windows were shattered. When a local official, Martinet, arrived at Rousseau's residence he saw so many stones on the balcony that he exclaimed \"My God, it's a quarry!\" At this point, Rousseau's friends in Môtiers advised him to leave the town.\n\nSince he wanted to remain in Switzerland, Rousseau decided to accept an offer to move to a tiny island, the Ile de St.-Pierre, having a solitary house. Although it was within the Canton of Bern, from where he had been expelled two years previously, he was informally assured that he could move into this island house without fear of arrest, and he did so (10 September 1765). However, on 17 October 1765, the Senate of Bern ordered Rousseau to leave the island and all Bernese territory within fifteen days. He replied, requesting permission to extend his stay, and offered to be incarcerated in any place within their jurisdiction with only a few books in his possession and permission to walk occasionally in a garden while living at his own expense. The Senate's response was to direct Rousseau to leave the island, and all Bernese territory, within twenty four hours. On 29 October 1765 he left the Ile de St.-Pierre and moved to Strasbourg. At this point:\n\nHe subsequently decided to accept Hume's invitation to go to England.\n\nOn 9 December 1765, having secured a passport from the French government to come to Paris, Rousseau left Strasbourg for Paris where he arrived after a week, and lodged in a palace of his friend, the Prince of Conti. Here he met Hume, and also numerous friends, and well wishers, and became a very conspicuous figure in the city. At this time, Hume wrote: \n\nOne significant meeting could have taken place at this time: Diderot wanted to reconcile and make amends with Rousseau. However, since both Diderot and Rousseau wanted the other person to take the initiative in this respect, no meeting between the two took place.\n\nOn 1 January 1766, Grimm wrote a report to his clientele, in which he included a letter said to have been written by Frederick the Great to Rousseau. This letter had actually been composed by Horace Walpole as a playful hoax. Walpole had never met Rousseau, but he was well acquainted with Diderot and Grimm. The letter soon found wide publicity; Hume is believed to have been present, and to have participated in its creation. On 16 February 1766, Hume wrote to the Marquise de Brabantane: \"The only pleasantry I permitted myself in connection with the pretended letter of the King of Prussia was made by me at the dinner table of Lord Ossory.\" This letter was one of the reasons for the later rupture in Hume's relations with Rousseau.\n\nOn 4 January 1766, Rousseau left Paris along with Hume, the merchant de Luze who was an old friend of Rousseau, and Rousseau's pet dog Sultan. After a four-day journey to Calais, where they stayed for two nights, the travelers embarked on a ship to Dover. On 13 January 1766 they arrived in London. Soon after their arrival, David Garrick arranged a box at the Drury Lane Theatre for Hume and Rousseau on a night when the King and Queen were also present. Garrick was himself performing in a comedy by himself, and also a tragedy by Voltaire. Rousseau became so excited during the performance that he leaned too far and almost fell out of the box; Hume observed that the King and Queen were looking at Rousseau more than at the performance. Afterwards, Garrick served supper for Rousseau who commended Garrick's acting: \"Sir, you have made me shed tears at your tragedy, and smile at your comedy, though I scarce understood a word of your language.\"\n\nAt this time, Hume had a favorable opinion of Rousseau; in a letter to Madame De Brabantane, Hume wrote that after observing Rousseau carefully he had concluded that he had never met a more affable and virtuous person. According to Hume, Rousseau was \"gentle, modest, affectionate, disinterested, of extreme sensitivity.\" Initially, Rousseau was lodged by Hume in the house of Madam Adams in London, but he began receiving so many visitors that he soon wanted to move to a quieter location. An offer came to lodge him in a Welsh monastery, and he was inclined to accept it, but Hume persuaded him to move to Chiswick. He now asked for Therese to rejoin him.\n\nMeanwhile, James Boswell was in Paris, and offered to escort Thérèse to Rousseau. (Boswell had earlier met Rousseau and Therese at Motiers; he had subsequently also sent Therese a garnet necklace and written to Rousseau seeking permission to occasionally communicate with her). Hume foresaw what was going to happen: \"I dread some event fatal to our friend's honor.\" Boswell and Therese were together for more than a week, and as per notes in Boswell's diary they consummated the relationship, having intercourse several times. On one occasion, Therese told Boswell: \"Don't imagine you are a better lover than Rousseau.\"\n\nSince Rousseau was keen to relocate to a more remote location, Richard Davenport—a wealthy and elderly widower who spoke French—offered to accommodate Therese and Rousseau at Wootton Hall. On 22 March, Rousseau and Therese set forth for Wootton, against Hume's advice. Hume and Rousseau would never meet again. Initially Rousseau was pleased with his new accommodation at Wootton Hall, and wrote favorably about the natural beauty of the place, and how he was feeling reborn, forgetting past sorrows.\n\nOn 3 April 1766, the letter featuring Horace Walpole's hoax on Rousseau was published in a British daily without mention of Walpole being the actual author; that the editor of the publication was Hume's personal friend compounded Rousseau's grief. Gradually articles critical of Rousseau started appearing in the British press; Rousseau felt that Hume, as his host, ought to have defended him. Moreover, in Rousseau's estimate, some of the public criticism contained details which only Hume was privy to. Further, Rousseau was aggrieved to find that Hume had been lodging in London with Francois Tronchin, son of Rousseau's enemy in Geneva.\n\nAbout this time, Voltaire anonymously published his \"Letter to Dr. J.-J. Pansophe\" in which he gave extracts from many of Rousseau's prior statements critical of the British; the most damaging portions of Voltaire's writeup were reprinted in a London periodical. Rousseau now decided that there was a conspiracy afoot to defame him. A further cause for Rousseau's displeasure was his concern that Hume was tampering with his mail. The misunderstanding had arisen because Rousseau tired of receiving voluminous correspondence whose postage he had to pay. Hume offered to open Rousseau's mail himself and forward the important letters to Rousseau; this offer was accepted. However, there is some evidence of Hume intercepting even Rousseau's outgoing mail.\n\nAfter some correspondence with Rousseau, which included an eighteen-page letter from Rousseau describing the reasons for his resentment, Hume concluded that Rousseau was losing his mental balance. On learning that Rousseau had denounced him to his Parisian friends, Hume sent a copy of Rousseau's long letter to Madame de Boufflers. She replied stating that Hume's alleged participation in the composition of Horace Walpole's \"faux\" letter was the reason for Rousseau's anger in her estimate.\n\nWhen Hume learnt that Rousseau was writing the \"Confessions\", he assumed that the present dispute would feature in the book. Adam Smith, Turgot, Marischal Keith, Horace Walpole, and Mme de Boufflers advised Hume not to make his quarrel with Rousseau public; however, many members of D'Holbach's Coterie—particularly, d'Alembert—urged him to reveal his version of the events. In October 1766, Hume's version of the quarrel was translated into French and published in France; in November it was published in England. Grimm included it in his \"correspondance\"; ultimately, \n\nAfter the dispute became public, due in part to comments from notable publishers like Andrew Millar, Walpole told Hume that quarrels such as this only end up becoming a source of amusement for Europe. Diderot took a charitable view of the mess: \"I knew these two philosophers well. I could write a play about them that would make you weep, and it would excuse them both.\" Amidst the controversy surrounding his quarrel with Hume, Rousseau maintained a public silence; but, he resolved now to return to France. To encourage him to do so swiftly, Therese advised him that the servants at Wootton Hall sought to poison him. On 22 May 1767, Rousseau and Therese embarked from Dover to Calais.\n\nOn 22 May 1767, Rousseau reentered France even though an arrest warrant against him was still in place. He had taken an assumed name, but was recognized, and a banquet in his honor was held by the city of Amiens. Many French nobles offered him a residence at this time. Initially, Rousseau decided to stay in an estate near Paris belonging to Mirabeau. Subsequently, on 21 June 1767, he moved to a chateau of the Prince of Conti in Trie.\n\nAround this time, Rousseau started developing feelings of paranoia, anxiety, and of a conspiracy against him. Most of this was just his imagination at work, but on 29 January 1768, the theatre at Geneva was destroyed through burning, and Voltaire mendaciously accused Rousseau of being the culprit. In June 1768, Rousseau left Trie, leaving Therese behind, and went first to Lyon, and subsequently to Bourgoin. He now invited Therese to this place and \"married\" her under his alias \"Renou\" in a faux civil ceremony in Bourgoin on 30 August 1768.\n\nIn January 1769, Rousseau and Thérèse went to live in a farmhouse near Grenoble. Here he practiced botany and completed the \"Confessions\". At this time he expressed regret for placing his children in an orphanage. On 10 April 1770, Rousseau and Therese left for Lyon where he befriended Horace Coignet, a fabric designer and amateur musician. At Rousseau's suggestion, Coignet composed musical interludes for Rousseau's prose poem \"Pygmalion\"; this was performed in Lyon together with Rousseau's romance \"The Village Soothsayer\" to public acclaim. On 8 June, Rousseau and Therese left Lyon for Paris; they reached Paris on 24 June.\n\nIn Paris, Rousseau and Therese lodged in an unfashionable neighborhood of the city, the Rue Platrière—now called the Rue Jean-Jacques Rousseau. He now supported himself financially by copying music, and continued his study of botany. At this time also, he wrote his \"Letters on the Elements of Botany\". These consisted of a series of letters Rousseau wrote to Mme Delessert in Lyon to help her daughters learn the subject. These letters received widespread acclaim when they were eventually published posthumously. \"It's a true pedagogical model, and it complements \"Emile\",\" commented Goethe.\n\nFor defending his reputation against hostile gossip, Rousseau had begun writing the \"Confessions\" in 1765. In November 1770, these were completed, and although he did not wish to publish them at this time, he began to offer group readings of certain portions of the book. Between December 1770, and May 1771, Rousseau made at least four group readings of his book with the final reading lasting seventeen hours. A witness to one of these sessions, Claude Joseph Dorat, wrote: \n\nAfter May 1771, there were no more group readings because Madame d'Épinay wrote to the chief of police, who was her friend, to put a stop to Rousseau's readings so as to safeguard her privacy. The police called on Rousseau, who agreed to stop the readings. The \"Confessions\" were finally published posthumously in 1782.\n\nIn 1772, Rousseau was invited to present recommendations for a new constitution for the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, resulting in the \"Considerations on the Government of Poland\", which was to be his last major political work.\n\nAlso in 1772, Rousseau began writing his \"\", which was another attempt to reply to his critics. He completed writing it in 1776. The book is in the form of three dialogues between two characters; a \"Frenchman\" and \"Rousseau\" who argue about the merits and demerits of a third character—an author called \"Jean-Jacques\". It has been described as his most unreadable work; in the foreword to the book, Rousseau admits that it may be repetitious and disorderly, but he begs the reader's indulgence on the grounds that he needs to defend his reputation from slander before he dies.\n\nIn 1766, Rousseau had impressed Hume with his physical prowess by spending ten hours at night on the deck in severe weather during the journey by ship from Calais to Dover while Hume was confined to his bunk. \"When all the seamen were almost frozen to death...he caught no harm...He is one of the most robust men I have ever known,\" Hume noted. By 1770, Rousseau's urinary disease had also been greatly alleviated after he stopped listening to the advice of doctors. At that time, notes Damrosch, it was often better to let nature take its own course rather than subject oneself to medical procedures. his general health had also improved. However, on 24 October 1776, as he was walking on a narrow street in Paris a nobleman's carriage came rushing by from the opposite direction; flanking the carriage was a galloping Great Dane belonging to the nobleman. Rousseau was unable to dodge both the carriage and the dog, and was knocked down by the Great Dane. He seems to have suffered a concussion and neurological damage. His health began to decline; Rousseau's friend Corancez described the appearance of certain symptoms which indicate that Rousseau started suffering from epileptic seizures after the accident.\n\nIn 1777, Rousseau received a royal visitor, when the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II came to meet him. His free entry to the Opera had been renewed by this time and he would go there occasionally. At this time also (1777–78), he composed one of his finest works, \"Reveries of a Solitary Walker\".\n\nIn the spring of 1778, the Marquis Girardin invited Rousseau to live in a cottage in his château at Ermenonville. Rousseau and Thérèse went there on 20 May. Rousseau spent his time at the château in collecting botanical specimens, and teaching botany to Girardin's son. He ordered books from Paris on grasses, mosses and mushrooms, and made plans to complete his unfinished \"Emile and Sophie\" and \"Daphnis and Chloe\".\n\nOn 1 July, a visitor commented that \"men are wicked\", to which Rousseau replied with \"men are wicked, yes, but man is good\"; in the evening there was a concert in the château in which Rousseau played on the piano his own composition of the Willow Song from \"Othello\". On this day also, he had a hearty meal with Girardin's family; the next morning, as he was about to go teach music to Girardin's daughter, he died of cerebral bleeding resulting in an apoplectic stroke. It is now believed that repeated falls, including the accident involving the Great Dane, may have contributed to Rousseau's stroke.\n\nFollowing his death, Grimm, Madame de Staël and others spread the false news that Rousseau had committed suicide; according to other gossip, Rousseau was insane when he died. All those who met him in his last days agree that he was in a serene frame of mind at this time.\n\nOn 4 July 1778, Rousseau was buried on the , which became a place of pilgrimage for his many admirers. On 11 October 1794, his remains were moved to the Panthéon, where they were placed near the remains of Voltaire.\n\nIn common with other philosophers of the day, Rousseau looked to a hypothetical State of Nature as a normative guide.\n\nRousseau criticized Hobbes for asserting that since man in the \"state of nature... has no idea of goodness he must be naturally wicked; that he is vicious because he does not know virtue\". On the contrary, Rousseau holds that \"uncorrupted morals\" prevail in the \"state of nature\" and he especially praised the admirable moderation of the Caribbeans in expressing the sexual urge despite the fact that they live in a hot climate, which \"always seems to inflame the passions\".\n\nRousseau asserted that the stage of human development associated with what he called \"savages\" was the best or optimal in human development, between the less-than-optimal extreme of brute animals on the one hand and the extreme of decadent civilization on the other. \"...[N]othing is so gentle as man in his primitive state, when placed by nature at an equal distance from the stupidity of brutes and the fatal enlightenment of civil man\". Referring to the stage of human development which Rousseau associates with savages, Rousseau writes:\nThe perspective of many of today's environmentalists can be traced back to Rousseau who believed that the more men deviated from the state of nature, the worse off they would be. Espousing the belief that all degenerates in men's hands, Rousseau taught that men would be free, wise, and good in the state of nature and that instinct and emotion, when not distorted by the unnatural limitations of civilization, are nature's voices and instructions to the good life. Rousseau's \"noble savage\" stands in direct opposition to the man of culture.\n\nRousseau believed that the savage stage was not the first stage of human development, but the third stage. Rousseau held that this third savage stage of human societal development was an optimum, between the extreme of the state of brute animals and animal-like \"ape-men\" on the one hand and the extreme of decadent civilized life on the other. This has led some critics to attribute to Rousseau the invention of the idea of the noble savage, which Arthur Lovejoy conclusively showed misrepresents Rousseau's thought. Rousseau's view was that morality was not embued by society, but rather \"natural\" in the sense of \"innate\". It could be seen as an outgrowth from man's instinctive disinclination to witness suffering, from which arise emotions of compassion or empathy. These are sentiments shared with animals, and whose existence even Hobbes acknowledged.\nContrary to what many detractors have claimed, Rousseau never suggests that humans in the state of nature act morally; in fact, terms such as \"justice\" or \"wickedness\" are inapplicable to prepolitical society as Rousseau understands it. Morality proper, self-restraint, can only develop through careful education in a civil state. Humans \"in a state of Nature\" may act with all of the ferocity of an animal. They are good only in a negative sense, insofar as they are self-sufficient and thus not subject to the vices of political society.\n\nIn fact, Rousseau's natural man is virtually identical to a solitary chimpanzee or other ape, such as the orangutan as described by Buffon; and the \"natural\" goodness of humanity is thus the goodness of an animal, which is neither good nor bad. Rousseau, a deteriorationist, proposed that, except perhaps for brief moments of balance, at or near its inception, when a relative equality among men prevailed, human civilization has always been artificial, creating inequality, envy, and unnatural desires.\n\nRousseau's ideas of human development were highly interconnected with forms of mediation, or the processes that individual humans use to interact with themselves and others while using an alternate perspective or thought process. According to Rousseau, these were developed through the innate perfectibility of humanity. These include a sense of self, morality, pity, and imagination. Rousseau's writings are purposely ambiguous concerning the formation of these processes to the point that mediation is always intrinsically part of humanity's development. An example of this is the notion that as an individual, one needs an alternative perspective to come to the realization that they are a 'self'.\n\nIn Rousseau's philosophy, society's negative influence on men centers on its transformation of \"amour de soi\", a positive self-love, into \"amour-propre\", or pride. \"Amour de soi\" represents the instinctive human desire for self-preservation, combined with the human power of reason. In contrast, \"amour-propre\" is artificial and encourages man to compare himself to others, thus creating unwarranted fear and allowing men to take pleasure in the pain or weakness of others. Rousseau was not the first to make this distinction. It had been invoked by Vauvenargues, among others.\n\nIn the \"Discourse on the Arts and Sciences\" Rousseau argues that the arts and sciences have not been beneficial to humankind, because they arose not from authentic human needs but rather as a result of pride and vanity. Moreover, the opportunities they create for idleness and luxury have contributed to the corruption of man. He proposed that the progress of knowledge had made governments more powerful and had crushed individual liberty; and he concluded that material progress had actually undermined the possibility of true friendship by replacing it with jealousy, fear, and suspicion.\n\nIn contrast to the optimistic view of other Enlightenment figures, for Rousseau, progress has been inimical to the well-being of humanity, that is, unless it can be counteracted by the cultivation of civic morality and duty. Only in civil society can man be ennobled—through the use of reason:\nSociety corrupts men only insofar as the Social Contract has not \"de facto\" succeeded, as we see in contemporary society as described in the \"Discourse on Inequality\" (1754). In this essay, which elaborates on the ideas introduced in the \"Discourse on the Arts and Sciences\", Rousseau traces man's social evolution from a primitive state of nature to modern society. The earliest solitary humans possessed a basic drive for self-preservation and a natural disposition to compassion or pity. They differed from animals, however, in their capacity for free will and their potential perfectibility. As they began to live in groups and form clans they also began to experience family love, which Rousseau saw as the source of the greatest happiness known to humanity.\n\nAs long as differences in wealth and status among families were minimal, the first coming together in groups was accompanied by a fleeting golden age of human flourishing. The development of agriculture, metallurgy, private property, and the division of labour and resulting dependency on one another, however, led to economic inequality and conflict. As population pressures forced them to associate more and more closely, they underwent a psychological transformation: they began to see themselves through the eyes of others and came to value the good opinion of others as essential to their self-esteem.\n\nRousseau posits that the original, deeply flawed Social Contract (i.e., that of Hobbes), which led to the modern state, was made at the suggestion of the rich and powerful, who tricked the general population into surrendering their liberties to them and instituted inequality as a fundamental feature of human society. Rousseau's own conception of the Social Contract can be understood as an alternative to this fraudulent form of association.\n\nAt the end of the \"Discourse on Inequality\", Rousseau explains how the desire to have value in the eyes of others comes to undermine personal integrity and authenticity in a society marked by interdependence, and hierarchy. In the last chapter of the \"Social Contract\", Rousseau would ask 'What is to be done?' He answers that now all men can do is to cultivate virtue in themselves and submit to their lawful rulers. To his readers, however, the inescapable conclusion was that a new and more equitable Social Contract was needed.\n\nLike other Enlightenment philosophers, Rousseau was critical of the Atlantic slave trade.\n\n\"The Social Contract\" outlines the basis for a legitimate political order within a framework of classical republicanism. Published in 1762, it became one of the most influential works of political philosophy in the Western tradition. It developed some of the ideas mentioned in an earlier work, the article \"Économie Politique\" (\"Discourse on Political Economy\"), featured in Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\". The treatise begins with the dramatic opening lines, \"Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains. Those who think themselves the masters of others are indeed greater slaves than they.\"\n\nRousseau claimed that the state of nature was a primitive condition without law or morality, which human beings left for the benefits and necessity of cooperation. As society developed, the division of labor and private property required the human race to adopt institutions of law. In the degenerate phase of society, man is prone to be in frequent competition with his fellow men while also becoming increasingly dependent on them. This double pressure threatens both his survival and his freedom.\n\nAccording to Rousseau, by joining together into civil society through the social contract and abandoning their claims of natural right, individuals can both preserve themselves and remain free. This is because submission to the authority of the general will of the people as a whole guarantees individuals against being subordinated to the wills of others and also ensures that they obey themselves because they are, collectively, the authors of the law.\n\nAlthough Rousseau argues that sovereignty (or the power to make the laws) should be in the hands of the people, he also makes a sharp distinction between the sovereign and the government. The government is composed of magistrates, charged with implementing and enforcing the general will. The \"sovereign\" is the rule of law, ideally decided on by direct democracy in an assembly.\n\nRousseau opposed the idea that the people should exercise sovereignty via a representative assembly (Book III, Chapter XV). He approved the kind of republican government of the city-state, for which Geneva provided a model—or would have done if renewed on Rousseau's principles. France could not meet Rousseau's criterion of an ideal state because it was too big. Much subsequent controversy about Rousseau's work has hinged on disagreements concerning his claims that citizens constrained to obey the general will are thereby rendered free:\nThe notion of the general will is wholly central to Rousseau's theory of political legitimacy. … It is, however, an unfortunately obscure and controversial notion. Some commentators see it as no more than the dictatorship of the proletariat or the tyranny of the urban poor (such as may perhaps be seen in the French Revolution). Such was not Rousseau's meaning. This is clear from the \"Discourse on Political Economy\", where Rousseau emphasizes that the general will exists to protect individuals against the mass, not to require them to be sacrificed to it. He is, of course, sharply aware that men have selfish and sectional interests which will lead them to try to oppress others. It is for this reason that loyalty to the good of all alike must be a supreme (although not exclusive) commitment by everyone, not only if a truly general will is to be heeded but also if it is to be formulated successfully in the first place\".\n\nRousseau's philosophy of education concerns itself not with particular techniques of imparting information and concepts, but rather with developing the pupil's character and moral sense, so that he may learn to practice self-mastery and remain virtuous even in the unnatural and imperfect society in which he will have to live. The hypothetical boy, Émile, is to be raised in the countryside, which, Rousseau believes, is a more natural and healthy environment than the city, under the guardianship of a tutor who will guide him through various learning experiences arranged by the tutor. Today we would call this the disciplinary method of \"natural consequences\". Rousseau felt that children learn right and wrong through experiencing the consequences of their acts rather than through physical punishment. The tutor will make sure that no harm results to Émile through his learning experiences.\n\nRousseau became an early advocate of developmentally appropriate education; his description of the stages of child development mirrors his conception of the evolution of culture. He divides childhood into stages:\n\nRousseau recommends that the young adult learn a manual skill such as carpentry, which requires creativity and thought, will keep him out of trouble, and will supply a fallback means of making a living in the event of a change of fortune (the most illustrious aristocratic youth to have been educated this way may have been Louis XVI, whose parents had him learn the skill of locksmithing). The sixteen-year-old is also ready to have a companion of the opposite sex.\n\nAlthough his ideas foreshadowed modern ones in many ways, in one way they do not: Rousseau was a believer in the moral superiority of the patriarchal family on the antique Roman model. Sophie, the young woman Émile is destined to marry, as his representative of ideal womanhood, is educated to be governed by her husband while Émile, as his representative of the ideal man, is educated to be self-governing. This is not an accidental feature of Rousseau's educational and political philosophy; it is essential to his account of the distinction between private, personal relations and the public world of political relations. The private sphere as Rousseau imagines it depends on the subordination of women, in order for both it and the public political sphere (upon which it depends) to function as Rousseau imagines it could and should. Rousseau anticipated the modern idea of the bourgeois nuclear family, with the mother at home taking responsibility for the household and for childcare and early education.\n\nFeminists, beginning in the late 18th century with Mary Wollstonecraft in 1792 have criticized Rousseau for his confinement of women to the domestic sphere—unless women were domesticated and constrained by modesty and shame, he feared \"men would be tyrannized by women… For, given the ease with which women arouse men's senses– men would finally be their victims…\" His contemporaries saw it differently because Rousseau thought that mothers should breastfeed their children. Marmontel wrote that his wife thought, \"One must forgive something,\" she said, \"in one who has taught us to be mothers.\"\n\nRousseau's ideas have influenced progressive \"child-centered\" education. John Darling's 1994 book \"Child-Centered Education and its Critics\" portrays the history of modern educational theory as a series of footnotes to Rousseau, a development he regards as bad. Good or bad, the theories of educators such as Rousseau's near contemporaries Pestalozzi, Mme. de Genlis and, later, Maria Montessori and John Dewey, which have directly influenced modern educational practices, do have significant points in common with those of Rousseau.\n\nHaving converted to Roman Catholicism early in life and returned to the austere Calvinism of his native Geneva as part of his period of moral reform, Rousseau maintained a profession of that religious philosophy and of John Calvin as a modern lawgiver throughout the remainder of his life. Unlike many of the more agnostic Enlightenment philosophers, Rousseau affirmed the necessity of religion. His views on religion presented in his works of philosophy, however, may strike some as discordant with the doctrines of both Catholicism and Calvinism.\n\nRousseau's strong endorsement of religious toleration, as expounded in \"Émile\", was interpreted as advocating indifferentism, a heresy, and led to the condemnation of the book in both Calvinist Geneva and Catholic Paris. Although he praised the Bible, he was disgusted by the Christianity of his day. Rousseau's assertion in \"The Social Contract\" that true followers of Christ would not make good citizens may have been another reason for his condemnation in Geneva. He also repudiated the doctrine of original sin, which plays a large part in Calvinism. In his \"Letter to Beaumont\", Rousseau wrote, \"there is no original perversity in the human heart.\"\n\nIn the 18th century, many deists viewed God merely as an abstract and impersonal creator of the universe, likened to a giant machine. Rousseau's deism differed from the usual kind in its emotionality. He saw the presence of God in the creation as good, and separate from the harmful influence of society. Rousseau's attribution of a spiritual value to the beauty of nature anticipates the attitudes of 19th-century Romanticism towards nature and religion. Rousseau was upset that his deism was so forcefully condemned, while those of the more atheistic philosophers were ignored. He defended himself against critics of his religious views in his \"Letter to Mgr de Beaumont, the Archbishop of Paris\", \"in which he insists that freedom of discussion in religious matters is essentially more religious than the attempt to impose belief by force.\"\n\nRousseau's idea of the \"volonté générale\" (\"general will\") was not original with him but rather belonged to a well-established technical vocabulary of juridical and theological writings in use at the time. The phrase was used by Diderot and also by Montesquieu (and by his teacher, the Oratorian friar Nicolas Malebranche). It served to designate the common interest embodied in legal tradition, as distinct from and transcending people's private and particular interests at any particular time. It displayed a rather democratic ideology, as it declared that the citizens of a given nation should carry out whatever actions they deem necessary in their own sovereign assembly.\n\nThe concept was also an important aspect of the more radical 17th-century republican tradition of Spinoza, from whom Rousseau differed in important respects, but not in his insistence on the importance of equality:\nRobespierre and Saint-Just, during the Reign of Terror, regarded themselves to be principled egalitarian republicans, obliged to do away with superfluities and corruption; in this they were inspired most prominently by Rousseau. According to Robespierre, the deficiencies in individuals were rectified by upholding the 'common good' which he conceptualized as the collective will of the people; this idea was derived from Rousseau's \"General Will\". The revolutionaries were also inspired by Rousseau to introduce Deism as the new official civil religion of France:\nAccording to some scholars, Rousseau exercised minimal influence on the Founding Fathers of the United States, despite similarities between their ideas. They shared beliefs regarding the self-evidence that \"all men are created equal,\" and the conviction that citizens of a republic be educated at public expense. A parallel can be drawn between the United States Constitution's concept of the \"general welfare\" and Rousseau's concept of the \"general will\". Further commonalities exist between Jeffersonian democracy and Rousseau's praise of Switzerland and Corsica's economies of isolated and independent homesteads, and his endorsement of a well-regulated militia, such as those of the Swiss cantons.\n\nHowever, Will and Ariel Durant have opined that Rousseau had a definite political influence on America. According to them: \n\nOne of Rousseau's most important American followers was textbook writer Noah Webster (1758–1843), who was influenced by Rousseau's ideas on pedagogy in \"Emile\" (1762). Webster structured his \"Speller\" in accord with Rousseau's ideas about the stages of a child's intellectual development.\n\nRousseau's writings perhaps had an indirect influence on American literature through the writings of Wordsworth and Kant, whose works were important to the New England transcendentalist Ralph Waldo Emerson, as well as on Unitarians such as theologian William Ellery Channing. \"The Last of the Mohicans\" and other American novels reflect republican and egalitarian ideals present alike in Thomas Paine and in English Romantic primitivism.\n\nThe first to criticize Rousseau were his fellow \"Philosophes\", above all, Voltaire. According to Jacques Barzun, Voltaire was annoyed by the first discourse, and outraged by the second. Voltaire's reading of the second discourse was that Rousseau would like the reader to \"walk on all fours\" befitting a savage.\n\nSamuel Johnson told Boswell, \"I think him one of the worst of men; a rascal, who ought to be hunted out of society, as he has been\".\n\nJean-Baptiste Blanchard was his leading Catholic opponent. Blanchard rejects Rousseau's negative education, in which one must wait until a child has grown to develop reason. The child would find more benefit from learning in his earliest years. He also disagreed with his ideas about female education, declaring that women are a dependent lot. So removing them from their motherly path is unnatural, as it would lead to the unhappiness of both men and women.\n\nBarzun states that, contrary to myth, Rousseau was no primitivist; for him:The model man is the independent farmer, free of superiors and self-governing. This was cause enough for the \"philosophes\"' hatred of their former friend. Rousseau's unforgivable crime was his rejection of the graces and luxuries of civilized existence. Voltaire had sung \"The superfluous, that most necessary thing.\" For the high bourgeois standard of living Rousseau would substitute the middling peasant's. It was the country versus the city—an exasperating idea for them, as was the amazing fact that every new work of Rousseau's was a huge success, whether the subject was politics, theater, education, religion, or a novel about love.\n\nAs early as 1788, Madame de Staël published her \"Letters on the works and character of J.-J. Rousseau\". In 1819, in his famous speech \"On Ancient and Modern Liberty\", the political philosopher Benjamin Constant, a proponent of constitutional monarchy and representative democracy, criticized Rousseau, or rather his more radical followers (specifically the Abbé de Mably), for allegedly believing that \"everything should give way to collective will, and that all restrictions on individual rights would be amply compensated by participation in social power.\"\n\nFrederic Bastiat severely criticized Rousseau in several of his works, most notably in \"The Law\", in which, after analyzing Rousseau's own passages, he stated that:\n\nBastiat believed that Rousseau wished to ignore forms of social order created by the people—viewing them as a thoughtless mass to be shaped by philosophers. Bastiat, who is considered by thinkers associated with the Austrian School of Economics to be one of the precursors of the \"spontaneous order\", presented his own vision of what he considered to be the \"Natural Order\" in a simple economic chain in which multiple parties might interact without necessarily even knowing each other, cooperating and fulfilling each other's needs in accordance with basic economic laws such as supply and demand. In such a chain, in order to produce clothing, multiple parties have to act independently—\"e.g.\" farmers to fertilize and cultivate land to produce fodder for the sheep, people to shear them, transport the wool, turn it into cloth, and another to tailor and sell it. Those persons engage in economic exchange by nature, and don't need to be ordered to, nor do their efforts need to be centrally coordinated. Such chains are present in every branch of human activity, in which individuals produce or exchange goods and services, and together, naturally create a complex social order that does not require external inspiration, central coordination of efforts, or bureaucratic control to benefit society as a whole. This, according to Bastiat, is a proof that humanity itself is capable of creating a complex socioeconomic order that might be superior to an arbitrary vision of a philosopher.\n\nBastiat also believed that Rousseau contradicted himself when presenting his views concerning human nature; if nature is \"sufficiently invincible to regain its empire\", why then would it need philosophers to direct it back to a natural state? Conversely, he believed that humanity would choose what it would have without philosophers to guide it, in accordance with the laws of economy and human nature itself. Another point of criticism Bastiat raised was that living purely in nature would doom mankind to suffer unnecessary hardships.\n\nThe Marquis de Sade's \"Justine, or the Misfortunes of Virtue\" (1791) partially parodied and used as inspiration Rousseau's sociological and political concepts in the \"Discourse on Inequality\" and \"The Social Contract\". Concepts such as the state of nature, civilization being the catalyst for corruption and evil, and humans \"signing\" a contract to mutually give up freedoms for the protection of rights, particularly referenced. The Comte de Gernande in \"Justine\", for instance, after Thérèse asks him how he justifies abusing and torturing women, states: The necessity mutually to render one another happy cannot legitimately exist save between two persons equally furnished with the capacity to do one another hurt and, consequently, between two persons of commensurate strength: such an association can never come into being unless a contract [\"un pacte\"] is immediately formed between these two persons, which obligates each to employ against each other no kind of force but what will not be injurious to either. . . [W]hat sort of a fool would the stronger have to be in order to subscribe to such an agreement?\n\nEdmund Burke formed an unfavorable impression of Rousseau when the latter visited England with Hume and later drew a connection between Rousseau's egoistic philosophy and his personal vanity, saying Rousseau \"entertained no principle... but vanity. With this vice he was possessed to a degree little short of madness\".\n\nIn 1919, Irving Babbitt, founder of a movement called the \"New Humanism\", wrote a critique of what he called \"sentimental humanitarianism\", for which he blamed Rousseau. Babbitt's depiction of Rousseau was countered in a celebrated and much reprinted essay by A.O. Lovejoy in 1923. In France, fascist theorist Charles Maurras, founder of \"Action Française\", \"had no compunctions in laying the blame for both \"Romantisme et Révolution\" firmly on Rousseau in 1922.\"\n\nDuring the Cold War, Rousseau was criticized for his association with nationalism and its attendant abuses, for example in . This came to be known among scholars as the \"totalitarian thesis\". Political scientist J.S. Maloy states that \"the twentieth century added Nazism and Stalinism to Jacobinism on the list of horrors for which Rousseau could be blamed. […] Rousseau was considered to have advocated just the sort of invasive tampering with human nature which the totalitarian regimes of mid-century had tried to instantiate.\" But he adds that \"The totalitarian thesis in Rousseau studies has, by now, been discredited as an attribution of real historical influence.\" Arthur Melzer, however, while conceding that Rousseau would not have approved of modern nationalism, observes that his theories do contain the \"seeds of nationalism\", insofar as they set forth the \"politics of identification\", which are rooted in sympathetic emotion. Melzer also believes that in admitting that people's talents are unequal, Rousseau therefore tacitly condones the tyranny of the few over the many. Others counter, however, that Rousseau was concerned with the concept of equality under the law, not equality of talents. For Stephen T. Engel, on the other hand, Rousseau's nationalism anticipated modern theories of \"imagined communities\" that transcend social and religious divisions within states.\n\nOn similar grounds, one of Rousseau's strongest critics during the second half of the 20th century was political philosopher Hannah Arendt. Using Rousseau's thought as an example, Arendt identified the notion of sovereignty with that of the general will. According to her, it was this desire to establish a single, unified will based on the stifling of opinion in favor of public passion that contributed to the excesses of the French Revolution.\n\nThe book \"Rousseau and Revolution\", by Will and Ariel Durant, begins with the following words about Rousseau:\n\nThe German writers Goethe, Schiller, and Herder have stated that Rousseau's writings inspired them. Herder regarded Rousseau to be his \"guide\", and Schiller compared Rousseau to Socrates. Goethe, in 1787, stated: \"\"Emile\" and its sentiments had a universal influence on the cultivated mind.\"\nThe elegance of Rousseau's writing is held to have inspired a significant transformation in French poetry and drama—freeing them from rigid literary norms. Other writers who were influenced by Rousseau's writings included Leopardi in Italy; Pushkin and Tolstoy in Russia; Wordsworth, Southey, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, and Keats in England; and Hawthorne and Thoreau in America. According to Tolstoy: \"At fifteen I carried around my neck, instead of the usual cross, a medallion with Rousseau's portrait.\"\n\nRousseau's \"Discourse on the Arts and Sciences\", emphasizing individualism and repudiating \"civilization\", was appreciated by, among others, Thomas Paine, William Godwin, Shelley, Tolstoy, and Edward Carpenter. Rousseau's contemporary Voltaire appreciated the section in Emile titled \"Profession of Faith of the Savoyard Vicar\".\n\nModern admirers of Rousseau include John Dewey and Claude Lévi-Strauss. According to Matthew Josephson, Rousseau has remained controversial for more than two centuries, and has continued to gain admirers and critics down to the present time. However, in their own way, both critics and admirers have served to underscore the significance of the man, while those who have evaluated him with fairness have agreed that he was the finest thinker of his time on the question of civilization.\n\nRousseau was a successful composer of music, who wrote seven operas as well as music in other forms, and made contributions to music as a theorist. As a composer, his music was a blend of the late Baroque style and the emergent Classical fashion, and he belongs to the same generation of transitional composers as Christoph Willibald Gluck and C. P. E. Bach. One of his more well-known works is the one-act opera \"Le devin du village\", containing the duet \"Non, Colette n'est point trompeuse\" which was later rearranged as a standalone song by Beethoven. He also composed several noted motets, some of which were sung at the Concert Spirituel in Paris. Rousseau's Aunt Suzanne was passionate about music and heavily influenced Rousseau's interest in music. “Though my taste, or rather passion, for music, did not show itself until a considerable time after, I am fully persuaded it is to her I am indebted for it.” Rousseau took formal instruction in music at the house of Francoise-Louise de Warens. She housed Rousseau on and off for about 13 years, giving him jobs and responsibilities. In 1742, Rousseau developed a system of musical notation that was compatible with typography and numbered. He presented his invention to the Academie Des Sciences, but they rejected it, praising his efforts and pushing him to try again. In 1743, Rousseau wrote his first opera, Les Muses Galantes, which was first preformed in 1745. In 1952, an Italian opera group arrived in Paris to perform works of opera buffa, causing the public to split over support for the new Italian opera and support for the traditional French opera. Rousseau and Jean-Philippe Rameau argued over the causes for superiority of Italian music over French. Rousseau argued that Italian music was superior based on the principle that melody must have priority over harmony. Rameau argued that Italian music was superior based on the principle that harmony must have priority over melody. Rousseau's plead for melody introduced the idea that in art, the free expression of a creative person is more important than the strict adherence to traditional rules and procedures. This is now known today as a characteristic of Romanticism. Rousseau argued for musical freedom, and changed people's attitudes towards music. His works were acknowledged by composers such as Christoph Willibald Gluck and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. After composing his opera, Le devin du village, The Village Soothsayer, in 1752, Rousseau felt he could not go on working for the theater because he was a moralist who had decided to break from worldly values.\n\nWorks:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6938710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6938710", "title": "John P. Anton", "text": "John P. Anton\n\nJohn P. Anton (; November 2, 1920 – December 10, 2014) was Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Greek Philosophy and Culture at the University of South Florida. He was Corresponding Member of the Academy of Athens, Honorary Member of the Parnassus Literary Society, Honorary Member Phi Beta Kappa and a member of the Florida Philosophical Association. He featured in the \"Who is Who in the World\", the \"Dictionary of International Biography\", the \"Directory of American Scholars\". He received four Honorary Doctorates from: the University of Athens, the University of Patras, the University of Ioannina and the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. His areas of specialization were classical Greek philosophy, History of Philosophy, American Philosophy, Philosophy of Art, and Metaphysics.\nHe studied at Columbia University and earned his B.S, M.A. and Ph.D. in Philosophy. In 1973 he was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto II.\n\nProfessor Anton authored ten books and edited eighteen books, among them \"Essays in Ancient Greek Philosophy\" (with A. Preus, five volumes, SUNY Press). He was the editor of the autobiographical work titled \"Upward Panic\" by Eva Palmer-Sikelianos. Professor Anton was the Editor of the \"Twayne Series\" in the late 1980s and early edited Constantine Santas' \"Aristotelis Valaoritis\" in 1976, which was translated into Greek in 2012 by Fagottoe Books. He has published more than 125 articles in various journals, and presented over 250 papers and addresses at various national and international conferences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55549077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55549077", "title": "Kelly James Clark", "text": "Kelly James Clark\n\nKelly James Clark (born March 3, 1956) is an American philosopher noted for his work in the philosophy of religion, science and religion, and the cognitive science of religion. He is currently Senior Research Fellow at the Kaufman Interfaith Institute and Professor at Grand Valley State University in Grand Rapids Michigan.\n\nClark received his PhD from the University of Notre Dame where his dissertation advisor was Alvin Plantinga. He has held professorships at Calvin College, Oxford University, University of St. Andrews, Notre Dame & Gordon College. He also served as Executive Director for the Society of Christian Philosophers from 1994-2009.\n\nClark's books include \"Religion and the Sciences of Origins, Abraham’s Children, Return to Reason, The Story of Ethics, When Faith Is Not Enough,\" and \"101 Key Philosophical Terms of Their Importance for Theology\", many of which have been translated into multiple languages. In 1995, his book \"Philosophers Who Believe\" was named one of Christianity Today’s Books of the Year. That book detailed the spiritual and intellectual autobiographies of philosophers such as Alvin Plantinga, Nicholas Wolterstorff, Basil Mitchell, Mortimer Adler, Richard Swinburne, Frederick Suppe, Linda Zagzebski, and Nicholas Rescher.\n\nHe has also published many articles in books and peer reviewed journals.\n\nClark is an international advocate for interfaith cooperation, focusing on the Abrahamic religions. As of October 2016, he is project director for “Abrahamic Reflections on Science and Religion” a Templeton Foundation project which brings together 36 scholars from 14 countries to reconcile issues in the fields of science and religion. Scholars include Nidhal Guessoum, Rana Dajani, Nathan Aviezer, & Robert Koons, among others.\n\nClark has lectured around the world and has served as director for international conferences on science and religion, interfaith cooperation, & Chinese philosophy. He has worked extensively with the John Templeton Foundation, organizing many interfaith symposiums, notably “Liberty and Tolerance in an Age of Religious Conflict” at Georgetown University on the 10th anniversary of 9/11. That conference inspired a book of the same name in which fifteen influential practitioners of the Abrahamic religions argued for religious liberty and tolerance from their own faith traditions. Contributors included former United States president Jimmy Carter, Indonesia’s first democratically elected president Abhurrahman Wahid, Rabbis for Human Rights co founder, Rabbi Arik Asherman, Rana Husseini, Nurit Peled-Elhanan, the philosopher Nicholas Wolterstorff & theologian Miroslav Volf. The book earned praise from pioneers for peace such as Bishop Desmond Tutu.\n\nPast conferences include “Science and Religion in China.” and \"Values and Virtues in Contemporary China.\"\n\nHe also writes a regular column for the Huffington Post which confronts Islamophobia and antisemitism while also combating religious extremism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27527078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27527078", "title": "Libellus De Arte Coquinaria", "text": "Libellus De Arte Coquinaria\n\nLibellus De Arte Coquinaria (\"The Little Book of Culinary Arts\") is a culinary manuscript containing thirty-five early Northern European recipes. The Collection is composed of four versions (or pieces) and consists of recipes in Danish, Icelandic, and Low German. Dating from the early thirteenth century, the libellus is considered to be among the oldest of culinary recipe collections. The cookbook exists in a three-part collection consisting of a book of herbs, one of stones, and \"Libellus De Arte Coquinaria\". The two former are written by Henrik Harpestræng.\n\nThe libellus was first published as part of the Collection included in \"An Old Icelandic Medical Miscellany\" [Ms. Royal Irish Academy 23D 43] in 1931 by Henning Larsen.\n\nA translated edition (\"An Early Northern Cookery Book\") that combines the four surviving versions was published by the Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "22832531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22832531", "title": "Linguistics and Philosophy", "text": "Linguistics and Philosophy\n\nLinguistics and Philosophy is a peer reviewed journal addressing \"structure and meaning in natural language\". This journal, along with Studies in Language, is a continuation of the journal Foundations of Language (1965 to 1976).\n\nThe editors-in-chief are Thomas Ede Zimmermann (Goethe University Frankfurt) and Graeme Forbes (University of Colorado at Boulder).\n\n"}
{"id": "24746595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24746595", "title": "Lorenzo Magalotti", "text": "Lorenzo Magalotti\n\nLorenzo Magalotti (24 October 1637 – 2 March 1712) was an Italian philosopher, author, diplomat and poet.\n\nMagalotti was born in Rome into an aristocratic family, the son of Ottavio Magalotti, Prefect of the Pontifical Mail: his uncle Lorenzo Magalotti was a member of the Roman Curia. His cousin Filippo was rector at University of Pisa. The Jesuit Magalotti became the secretary of the Accademia del cimento and a \"gazeteer of the sciences\".\n\nMagalotti started off as one of the most ardent followers of Galileo Galilei but was increasingly distressed by the personal rivalries among the individual members, which constantly undermined the academy's dedication to collective research. Gradually, Magalotti lost interest in science. He became a traveller, an ambassador, and ended up as a poet. He translated Paradise Lost by John Milton, and \"Cyder\" by John Philips into Italian.\n\nMagalotti received four years education at the Collegio Romano and three years at the University of Pisa. He studied law and medicine, but changed to mathematics under Vincenzo Viviani. On 19 June 1657 the Cimento was founded by a group of philosophers and amateurs, pupils of Galilei, who saw observation as their task. They studied the works of Plato, Democritus, Aristotle, Heinsius, Robert Boyle and Pierre Gassendi. The astronomers of the Cimento succeeded in providing the first sustained confirmation of Christiaan Huygens's discoveries: Saturn's rings.\n\nOn 20 May 1660, Lorenzo Magalotti had replaced Segni, and a few years later he wrote the only publication of the academy, the Saggi di naturali Esperienze (\"Essays on Natural Experiments\"). Alessandro Marchetti, Marcello Malpighi, an anatomist, and Antonio Vallisneri, a physician, Vincenzo da Filicaja, Benedetto Menzini, both poets, Francesco Redi, a \"microbiologist\", Viviani, Giovanni Alfonso Borelli, a physicist, and Carlo Renaldini, an astronomer regularly attended its meetings. These were usually held in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. Members performed numerous experiments, in the fields of thermometry, barometry, pneumatics, the velocity of sound and light, phosphorescence, magnetism, amber and other electrical bodies, the freezing of water, etc.\n\nMedicine was without doubt the talked-about subject of the day. The young Danish anatomist Niels Stensen, better known as Steno, arrived from Copenhagen by way of Leiden and Paris early in 1666. The Norman astronomer Adrien Auzout, inventor of a device for measuring planetary diameters, arrived in 1668, fresh from a quarrel with Jean-Baptiste Colbert and armed with a letter from Magalotti, who by then had become Leopoldo's main talent scout abroad.\n\nMagalotti knew as well as anyone that a scientifically valid explanation of the comet of 1664 could have made an important contribution to an explanation of the whole solar system. But instead of attempting one, he amused himself with the obviously ridiculous thesis that the tail of the comet was an optical illusion. As soon as he saw Cassini's much more penetrating and much better-informed explanation, he admitted that he \"cared no more for comets than for rainbows.\" As early as 1664 he had been appointed to the commission charged with supervising the decoration of Palazzo Pitti and from then on, until his death he made a point of getting to know all the practising artists of the city. In 1667 Magalotti had made a pilgrimage to the \"blessed bones of the divine poet\" at Ravenna. Magalotti had met Sir John Finch and Henry Neville, he had improved his English and with his boyhood friend Paolo Falconieri, an architect, he made plans to visit Northern Europe.\n\nThe two companions left in mid-July, crossed the Alps, and arrived in Augsburg in August. By mid-October they were wandering around in the Hague and visited Heinsius, Isaac Vossius, and Jacob Gronovius. On 12 November 1667 Magalotti arrived in Utrecht to visit Johann Georg Graevius. In the meantime Cosimo III de' Medici went on his grand tour. The Grand Duke travelled in a group of 18 people and 14 carriages, accompanied by six cooks and his secretary Appolonio Bassetti. On 28 October 1667, they had arrived in Tyrol, travelled to Mainz to visit the prince-elector, and set direction down the Rhine. On 19 December they arrived in Amsterdam. On his first day he saw the Admiralty of Amsterdam and the warehouses and wharves of the Dutch East India Company. Cosimo planned to start an East India Company from Livorno. The duke took his lodgings in a house at Keizersgracht, keen on keeping a private life, living with the Tuscan merchant and slave-trader Francisco Ferroni.\n\nWhile it is difficult to make out who went where with whom, and supposedly, the somewhat shy, pious, and taciturn Cosimo never went somewhere without company, an excerpt of the diary of Cosimo's visits is following here.\n\nA patron of the arts, Cosimo visited fifteen painters over a four-month period: the Leiden painters Gerard Dou and Frans van Mieris the Elder; Ludolf Bakhuizen, Willem van de Velde the Elder, Jan van Kessel, Nicolaes Maes, and Gabriel Metsu. From Caspar Netscher he bought four paintings. The duke preferenced small paintings, obviously easier to pack. Around Christmas he visited some hidden churches and social institutions. (A popular sight to visit was the madhouse on Kloveniersburgwal.) He met with the Jansenist Johannes van Neercassel. On 30 December 1667 Cosimo went to the Schouwburg of Van Campen, a copy of the Teatro Olimpico in Vicenza. He probably saw \"Medea\" by Jan Vos. They did not understand a word, but it had been attractive to watch. The pit was almost empty, while no others were invited. On 12 January, he attended the prince William III of Orange, who was only 17 at that time and performed in the ballet on that evening. Johan de Witt saved Cosimo from a boring conversation with some Amsterdam burgomasters and introduced him to some nice looking young ladies. Cosimo met John Maurice, Prince of Nassau-Siegen, who had spent a long time in Dutch Brazil.\n\nIn the 17th century many visitors came to Holland to see collections of paintings or rarities. The duke paid a visit to Gerrit van Uylenburgh, who owned part of the collection by Gerard Reynst. Dutch scientists and collectioners Franciscus Sylvius, Frederik Ruysch, Jan Swammerdam and probably Theodor Kerckring and Nicolaes Witsen showed them their cabinet of curiosities. At Swammerdam, who studied all kinds of insects, and knew almost everything about bees, Cosimo was accompanied by Melchisédech Thévenot.\n\nCosimo, who was informed by the geologist and anatomist Niels Stensen, one of the exponents of the Counter Reformation, refused to meet to philosopher Baruch Spinoza, living in Rijnsburg, when Cosimo visited some painters, and the Hortus Botanicus Leiden. He bought a painting by Jan van der Heyden, which has a strange perspective, but Van der Heyden delivered a tool to see the oval bell-tower from the right angle and in a more natural and round shape. On the last day of his stay in Amsterdam he ordered a self-portrait from Rembrandt. He visited Plantin House in Antwerp, then they went to Mechelen, Brussels to order some tapestries and went back to the Dutch Republic.\n\nAround Ash-Wednesday, Cosimo peregrinated via Bentheim to Hamburg. While the inns were less abundant, Cosimo spent the night in a farmhouse, where they could \"conversate with the cows\" in the stable. The travelling became harder because of all the marshes and mudd. Magalotti did not go along and went to London.\n\nHe was shocked to see how much money the English spent on cock fights and how much mess was still left over from the Great Fire of London. Bernardo Guasconi provided them with an invitation to the weekly meetings of the Royal Society. A lecture-demonstration by Robert Hooke, as well as a warm reception by the secretary, Henry Oldenburg, quickly overcame their initial disappointment in finding the society somewhat less formally organised than they had expected. Magalotti was greatly disillusioned about his reception by the King. The two men made a seven-day trip to Windsor, Hampton Court, and Oxford where they visited Robert Boyle. When Magalotti became ill Boyle visited him and sat by\nhis bedside for two or three hours daily. One of the main purposes of the trip had been fully realised. \"Receiving courtesies from wise and learned men is ample recompense for all the trouble and money spent on travelling.\" And a score of prominent scholars and one real king was not a bad record for a thirty-year-old tourist of as yet no particular accomplishment.\n\nThey ended up, toward the end of April, in Paris. He met Henri Louis Habert de Montmor, founder of a famous scientific salon, Jean Chapelain, a specialist on Italian literature, Valentin Conrart, and Ismael Bouillau, his scientific correspondent.\n\nBecause Cosimo's wife, the beautiful, vivacious, headstrong and thoroughly spoiled Marguerite Louise d'Orléans was as intractable as ever, he headed on 18 September, from Livorno for another journey to Spain. Magalotti, as a member of the retinue of 27 men, was giving the job of keeping a diary. Magalotti promised to send catalogues and books to Antonio Magliabechi, a dirty librarian, who did not care about his looks. \nFrom Barcelona they travelled to Madrid where he spend a month; It is supposed the 8-year-old Carlos II, by then hardly able to speak and walk, received him in a private interview. Then they went to Córdoba, Seville and Granada, followed by Talavera la Real and Badajoz. Magalotti found Spain to be bankrupt and demoralised, proud and lavish. Its learning hopelessly out of touch with the rest of Europe; its religion consisted largely of elaborate processions, gaudy reliquaries, and fables. None of the professors at the University of Alcalá could speak more than three words of Latin.\n\nBy January, he had arrived in Lisbon via Setúbal. While Lorenzo Magalotti limits himself to offering us a general view, Filippo Corsini describes in detail the Portuguese defensive system, keeping in mind even the names of some military men who distinguished themselves in the Portuguese Restoration War. In general the Prince preferred to lodge in religious institutions and frequently chatted with the priests. It was the Monastery of Saint Denis of Odivelas that most aroused the curiosity of the Florentines. The Prince and his court left the Portuguese territory from Caminha on 1 March, travelling on a ship that would take them to Galicia, Spain.\n\nFrom La Coruňa they set off for England. Because of an umcomfortable storm they arrived in Kinsale and then headed to Plymouth. Cosimo spent three months in London where Charles II received him. Samuel Pepys described him as \"a very jolly and good comely man\". Cosimo was amiably welcomed by the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge and at Billingbear House. When Billingbear House was visited by the Grand Duke of Tuscany in 1669, Magalotti painted a view of the house during the two-day stay, which is one of various images to be found in an illustrated manuscript in the Laurentian Library, Florence.\n\nCount Magalotti visited Exeter, and wrote of over thirty thousand people being employed in the county of Devon as part of the wool and cloth industries, merchandise that was sold to \"the West Indies, Spain, France and Italy\". They met the miniaturist Samuel Cooper, who painted Cosimo, and John Michael Wright. Cosimo later called at Wright's studio where he commissioned a portrait of the Duke of Albemarle from Wright.\n\nFalconieri presented to the Royal Society in London and to Charles II of England, copies of the newly printed reports of experimental science in Florence, \"Saggi di naturali esperienze\". In England he made a number of good friends, including Isaac Newton; among the over one hundred distinguished persons who came to call on him was Cecil Calvert, 2nd Baron Baltimore, who became his correspondent. Samuel Morland sent him a calculating machine and his loudspeaker. Cosimo became a dedicated Anglophile.\n\nOn 14 June 1669, they left England and travelled to Rotterdam. He met Coenraad van Beuningen and the liberal Charles de Saint-Evremond, whose essais and poetry Magalotti was to study so attentively in later years. Cosimo picked up a few painting he had ordered. Actually he saw Rembrandt a few months before the painter died. Then they went to Haarlem, Alkmaar, Hoorn, Enkhuizen and Molkwar, a small village, built on eight islands, connected with 27 bridges. One day they visited Delft to see some good paintings and met with the widow and nobly three daughters of Maarten Tromp. (Tromp married in 1640 Cornelia van Teding Berkhout, his third wife; she died in Delft in 1680.) Via Nijmegen, Aix-la-Chapelle and Spa they moved south. Cosimo visited Louis XIV, and Marguerite of Lorraine his mother-in-law, in Paris. Via Lyon and Marseille he arrived in Florence on 1 November 1669.\n\nIn his writing travelogs Magalotti was inspired by Jacob Spon and Jean Chardin. He renounced the career of those who \"toured the world [just] to copy epitaphs and count the steps in bell towers.\n\nAfter 1670, Florentine science changed somewhat in character. Magalotti was unsure whether many of Cosimo's projects were worth the huge sums spent by the Grand Duke. For instance, Cosimo aspired to convert England, northern Germany and India to Catholicism, batter the Ottoman Empire by land and by sea, and establish permanent commercial relations with Persia. Magalotti continued his travels without the Grand Duke.\nHe visited Brussels, Cologne, the United Provinces, Hamburg, Copenhagen and Stockholm in 1673/1674 as a Tuscan ambassador to the Imperial court of the Holy Roman Empire in Vienna. He described in his book \"Sweden in the year 1674\" Charles XI of Sweden as \"virtually afraid of everything, uneasy to talk to foreigners, and not daring to look anyone in the face\". Other traits was a deep religious devotion: he was God-fearing, frequently prayed kneeling and attended sermons. Magalotti otherwise described the king's main pursuits as hunting, the upcoming war, and jokes.\n\nIn May 1678 he went home. In 1680 his brother found him a rich widow in Naples, but he told the negotiators he had become impotent. Magalotti decided that he was better suited for some sort of intellectual activity. In 1709 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London.\n\nHe died in Florence in 1712.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8470663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8470663", "title": "Matrices of concepts", "text": "Matrices of concepts\n\nThe matrices of concepts are a conceptual tool put forth by philosopher Paul Franceschi, that aim at providing an alternative to the semiotic square described by Algirdas Greimas. To the difference of the semiotic square, a matrix of concepts is made up of 6 concepts, from which two are neutral, two are positive and two are negative. The relationships between the 6 concepts of the same matrix can be stated as follows:\n\nThe applications of the matrices of concepts relate to paradigmatic analysis, but also to the dialectical plan, and more generally to the study of concepts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32828028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32828028", "title": "Maximilian Balzan", "text": "Maximilian Balzan\n\nMaximilian Balzan (1637–1711) was a minor Maltese mediaeval philosopher who specialised mainly in physics and art. He was also an accomplished theologian. He had a very successful administrative career, both in the civil as well as the ecclesiastical sphere, and he further gave a significant share in academic circles.\n\nUnfortunately, it is still not known where Balzan was born in Malta. He must have married young, though details of this marriage are yet historically unidentified. It is only known that he had at least one son, John Baptist Balzan, who later became a diocesan priest.\n\nBalzan’s initial higher studies were almost certainly undertaken in view of his future service to the Order of Knights Hospitallers. He studied theology, and canon and civil law. He thus became a lawyer, then judge, and later an \"uditore\" (a sort of minister) to the Order of Knights Hospitallers. He served under four Grand Masters: Nicolas Cotoner, Gregorio Carafa (1680–90), Adrien de Wignacourt (1690–97), and Ramon Perellos y Roccaful.\n\nAppointed ambassador to the German Emperor, Leopold I, Balzan accomplished his duties so well that he was appointed a knight of the Holy Roman Empire. During Gregorio Carafa’s watch, he was instrumental in drawing up a new code of penal law.\n\nWhen his wife died, Balzan became a priest. Thus, he was made Commendatory of the Jerusalemite clergy of the Order of Knights Hospitallers, and advanced to being appointed a deacon at the Bishop’s Cathedral at Mdina, Malta. It was during this period that Balzan gave his full contribution to teaching philosophy at the Cathedral \"studium\". This was around 1699.\n\nWhen Balzan died (1711), he was buried in St. John’s Co-Cathedral, Valletta, Malta. The inscription over his tomb was composed by his son John Baptist, who by that time was, like his father, Commendatory of the Jerusalemite clergy of the Order of Knights Hospitallers.\n\nOnly one work of Balzan seems to have survived. It is in Latin, and bears the following title:\n\nThe manuscript itself was not inscribed by Balzan but by two of his students, both clerics. They were John Francis Zammit and Dominic Zammit, who of course attended Balzan’s lectures and took down his teachings word for word. The transcription might have been endorsed by Balzan himself. Whatever the case, the document was conserved to posterity by Balzan’s own son, John Baptist, who later must have made a donation of it to the Dominicans at Rabat, Malta.\n\nBalzan’s manuscript is an interesting piece of scholarship. In a way its content might also be considered quite original. For instance, the fact that Balzan took into consideration ancient medical theories, such as those by Hippocrates, is indeed out of line with mainstream Scholastic treatises. However, there is even more to Balzan’s mind. He investigates subject matters which no Scholastic generally would. All of this seems to indicate that Balzan was not content to repeat, mechanically, the method and doctrines of Scholastic academics. Though the style of Balzan’s work is basically Scholastic in nature and methodology, however he frequently leaves the beaten track and roams, almost freely, into uncommon spheres of thought.\n\nThe work is composed of an introduction and (in the Scholastic style) three ‘Questions’. All of these four sections are further divided into ‘Disputations’. In the introduction, Balzan explains the principles of physics (Disputation 1), and the principles of matter (Disp. 2). The first part (Question I) deals with metaphysics. It has an introduction on the nature of metaphysics, and two further sections (also called ‘Questions’, though they are clearly ‘Disputations’) dealing with two minor aspects of metaphysics. The second part of Balzan’s work (Question II) explores nature and art, which in itself is quite exceptional for any Scholastic. In Dispute I, he examines the relationship between nature and art; in Dispute II, the natural causes in general; and in Dispute III, the four Aristotelian causes in particular. The third part of the work (Question III) goes into the concepts of movement and rest. Balzan assignes to this subject the lion’s share of his manuscript. After a short introduction, he examines the concept of the infinite (Disputation 1); two qualities of movement: space (Disp. 2) and time (Disp. 3); the concept of a continuum (Disp. 4); the skies and the earth (Disp. 5); and the nature of the heavens (Disp. 6).\n\n"}
{"id": "23748317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748317", "title": "On the Reliability of the Old Testament", "text": "On the Reliability of the Old Testament\n\nOn the Reliability of the Old Testament (William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, Grand Rapids and Cambridge,2003: ) is a book by British Egyptologist Kenneth Kitchen (1932-). The book provides the reader with \"the most sweeping scholarly case in a generation for the traditional beliefs held by Orthodox Jews and Christian conservatives\", according to Richard Ostling. The book was intended to serve as a counterpart to F.F. Bruce's \"Are the New Testament Documents Reliable?\" (1943), and in so doing to counter the arguments of Biblical minimalism, which casts doubt upon the historical value of the Old Testament.\n\nThe book opens with an introductory chapter surveying the history with which it intends to deal, the continuous narrative in the Hebrew Bible from the Genesis creation narrative to the return of the Jews to Jerusalem from the Babylonian captivity in the early days of the Persian Empire in the 5th century BC. The author claims that this history was written at the same time as the events it describes in its various sections, and that this can be confirmed by comparing the Old Testament with non-Biblical sources, both written and archaeological. He clarifies by stating that there are three elements he means to address, history, literature and culture, and three he does not, theology, doctrine, and dogma.\n\nThe core of the book is eight chapters (chapters 2 to 9) surveying Biblical history and comparing it to the ages with which it deals, from the 3rd millennium (the period to which Kitchen traces the origins of the Biblical stories of Noah's Flood and other incidents from the opening chapters of Genesis) to the Babylonian captivity and the return of the Jews to Jerusalem under the leadership of Ezra and Nehemiah. The author presents his conclusions in chapter 10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31272049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31272049", "title": "Peter Plaoul", "text": "Peter Plaoul\n\nPeter Plaoul (1353–1415; , ) was a late medieval Scholastic philosopher and theologian. Born in Liege, he was educated at the University of Paris and remained an active member of the University until he was made Bishop of Senlis in 1409.\n\nWhile the content of his thought remains relatively unknown, Plaoul is often noted for his role in ending the Great Schism. He was present at the three French clergy councils in the 1390s called by King Charles the VI. There he advocated for the withdrawal of obedience from the Avignon Pope. He was also a speaker at the Council of Pisa, where the members attempted to end the schism by electing a third pope. Peter became sick and died before he could take part in the Council of Constance, which finally brought an end to the schism.\n\n"}
{"id": "5154273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5154273", "title": "Positivism dispute", "text": "Positivism dispute\n\nThe positivism dispute (German: \"Positivismusstreit\") was a political-philosophical dispute between the critical rationalists (Karl Popper, Hans Albert) and the Frankfurt School (Theodor Adorno, Jürgen Habermas) in 1961, about the methodology of the social sciences. It grew into a broad discussion within German sociology from 1961 to 1969. The naming itself is controversial, since it was the Frankfurt School proponents who accused the critical rationalists of being positivists—while the latter considered themselves as opponents of positivism. On the political level, it was a dispute between the leftist Frankfurt School proponents supporting revolution, and the allegedly bourgeois critical rationalists supporting reform as the method to be preferred to change society.\n\nThe debate began in 1961 in Tübingen, West Germany at the Conference of the German Society of Sociology. The speakers at the conference were invited to discuss the differences between social and natural sciences and the status of values in the social sciences.\n\nIn 1963, the debate was heated by Jürgen Habermas in the \"Festschrift für Adorno\" (writings in honour of Adorno). The debate became more intensely critical at the Sociology Day in Heidelberg when Herbert Marcuse joined the discussion. A spirited literary debate between Habermas and Hans Albert sprung up and positivism became the centre of the debate.\n\nThe participants also discussed the question of whether Popper's and Albert's critical rationalism had exacerbated ethical problems. The Frankfurt School believed this should be impossible, because as a theory of science critical rationalism is seen to be restricted to the field of knowledge.\n\nThe famous dispute inspired a collection of essays which were published in 1969. This book was translated into several languages, including English in 1976 (see below). This collection revived the debate and introduced these ideas to a broader audience.\n\nThe dispute has its foundation in the value judgment dispute (\"Werturteilsstreit\") in German sociology and economics around the question of whether or not the social sciences is a normative obligatory statement in politics and its measures applied in political actions, and whether or not their measures can be justified scientifically. Consequently, the positivism dispute is also called the Second \"Werturteilsstreit\".\n\nThe precursor of the debate about positivism can be traced back to Max Horkheimer's essay \"Der neueste Angriff auf die Metaphysik\" (\"The Latest Attack on Metaphysics\") published in 1937 that criticizes the logical positivism of the Vienna Circle. The prolonged criticism of positivism led to the formation of two camps: on one side we find \"critical rationalism\" advanced by Karl Popper and on the other side there is the \"critical theory\" advanced in the Frankfurt School. This view was strengthened by the fact that Popper's main work, \"Logic of Scientific Discovery\", was published in the main book series of the Vienna Circle. Popper, however, considered himself an opponent of positivism, and his main work was a sharp attack on it.\n\nBoth camps accept that sociology cannot avoid a value judgement that inevitably influences subsequent conclusions. In critical rationalism the scientific approach should be maintained in sociology and wherever the use of an induction method is not possible it should be avoided. This leads to a sociology having a firm ground in observations and assured deductions that cannot be ignored in politics.\n\nFor critical rationalism, sociology is best conceived as a set of empirical questions subject to scientific investigation. Frankfurt School \"critical theory,\" by contrast, denies that sociology can be severed from its \"metaphysical\" heritage; empirical questions are necessarily rooted in substantive philosophical issues. Drawing on concepts from Hegelian and Marxian traditions, critical theory conceives of society as a concrete totality, a social environment in which various \"psycho-social agencies\" (family, authorities, peers, mass media) shape individual consciousness.\n\nAccording to the Frankfurt school, it is important to discover the society's fabrics to allow for individuals to overcome being cornered. Critical rationalism considers this goal to be impossible and any attempts (changing society out of possibly non-scientific deductions) to be dangerous. The Frankfurt school counters critical rationalism as being itself cornered, disallowing itself from asking scientific questions when just some methods are not available. Looking back in history \"It is not the consciousness of men that determines their being, but their social existence that determines their consciousness\" (Karl Marx). The social existence determines the mindset of scientists as well. All the hypotheses generated by scientists (which would need to be falsified) are limited to this society's thinkable. While critical rationalism provides methods that are supposed to have an influence on society it is this totality that makes the reforms advocated by Popper ineffective for noticeable changes.\n\nPopper, in contrast, held that the Frankfurt school view was historicist ideology failing to see that any attempt to cause a total change of society (i.e., revolution) leads to violence, and that society should better be changed step by step (by reforms) to solve specific problems and abolish specific evils. According to Popper, individuals, including scientists, are free to decide, and are perhaps restricted by their social existence, but not totally determined by it. Changes may then look ineffective and very slow, but will accumulate over time. Popper thinks it is the lesser evil compared to violent revolutions, since such reforms can be undone if they turn out to only make things worse, while revolutions usually lead to lengthy periods of tyranny. Thus, for Popper, the method of reforms should be preferred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5069740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5069740", "title": "Princesse lointaine", "text": "Princesse lointaine\n\nA princess lointaine or princesse lointaine, (in French, \"distant princess\") is a stock character from medieval romances. The romantic interest of many knights errant, she was usually a woman of much higher birth, often far distant from the knight, and usually wealthier than he was, beautiful, and of admirable character. Some knights had, indeed, fallen in love with the princess owing to hearing descriptions of her, without seeing her, as tales said Jaufré Rudel had fallen in love with Hodierna of Tripoli.\n\nThe term has been used subsequently to refer to women whose chief characteristic as love interests has been their unattainability.\n\nIn the analysis of Courtly Love: \"at times, the lady could be a princesse lointaine, a far-away princess, and some tales told of men who had fallen in love with women whom they had never seen, merely on hearing their perfection described, but normally she was not so distant. As the etiquette of courtly love became more complicated, the knight might wear the colors of his lady: where blue or black were sometimes the colors of faithfulness, green could be a sign of unfaithfulness. Salvation, previously found in the hands of the priesthood, now came from the hands of one's lady\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2848825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2848825", "title": "Private language argument", "text": "Private language argument\n\nThe private language argument argues that a language understandable by only a single individual is incoherent, and was introduced by Ludwig Wittgenstein in his later work, especially in the \"Philosophical Investigations\". The argument was central to philosophical discussion in the second half of the 20th century. \n\nIn the \"Investigations\" Wittgenstein does not present his arguments in a succinct and linear fashion; instead, he describes particular uses of language, and prompts the reader to contemplate the implications of those uses. As a result, there is considerable dispute about both the nature of the argument and its implications. Indeed, it has become common to talk of private language \"arguments\".\n\nHistorians of philosophy see precursors of the private language argument in a variety of sources, notably in the work of Gottlob Frege and John Locke. Locke is also a prominent exponent of the view targeted by the argument, since he proposed in his \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" that the referent of a word is the \"idea\" it stands for.\n\nThe private language argument is of central importance to debates about the nature of language. One compelling theory about language is that language maps words to ideas, concepts or representations in each person's mind. On this account, the concepts in one's head are distinct from the concepts in other's head. But I can match my concepts to a word in our common language, and then speak the word. You then match the word to a concept in your mind. So our concepts in effect form a private language which we translate into our common language and so share. This account is found for example in \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", and more recently in Jerry Fodor's language of thought theory.\n\nWittgenstein argues, in his later work, that this account of private language is inconsistent. If the idea of a private language is inconsistent, then a logical conclusion would be that all language serves a social function. This would have profound implications for other areas of philosophical and psychological study. For example, if one cannot have a private language, it might not make any sense to talk of private experiences or of private mental states.\n\nThe argument is found in part one of the \"Philosophical investigations\". This part consists of a series of \"remarks\" numbered sequentially. The core of the argument is generally thought to be presented in §256 and onward, though the idea is first introduced in §243.\n\nIf someone were to behave as if they understood a language of which no-one else can make sense, we might call this an example of a private language. It is not sufficient here, however, for the language to simply be one that has not yet been translated. In order to count as a \"private language\" in Wittgenstein's sense, it must be in principle incapable of translation into an ordinary language – if for example it were to describe those inner experiences supposed to be inaccessible to others. The private language being considered is not simply a language \"in fact\" understood by one person, but a language that \"in principle\" can only be understood by one person. So the last speaker of a dying language would not be speaking a private language, since the language remains in principle learnable. A private language must be unlearnable and untranslatable, and yet it must appear that the speaker is able to make sense of it.\n\nWittgenstein sets up a thought experiment in which someone is imagined to associate some recurrent sensation with a symbol by writing S in their calendar when the sensation occurs. Such a case would be a private language in the Wittgensteinian sense. Furthermore, it is presupposed that \"S\" cannot be defined using other terms, for example \"the feeling I get when the manometer rises\"; for to do so would be to give S a place in our public language, in which case S could not be a statement in a private language.\n\nIt might be supposed that one might use \"a kind of ostensive definition\" for S, by focusing on the sensation and on the symbol. Early in \"The Investigations\", Wittgenstein attacks the usefulness of ostensive definition. He considers the example of someone pointing to two nuts while saying \"This is called \"two\"\". How does it come about that the listener associates this with the \"number\" of items, rather than the type of nut, their colour, or even a compass direction? One conclusion of this is that to participate in an ostensive definition presupposes an understanding of the process and context involved, of the form of life. Another is that \"an ostensive definition can be variously interpreted in \"every\" case\".\n\nIn the case of the sensation S Wittgenstein argues that there is no criterion for the correctness of such an ostensive definition, since whatever \"seems\" right will \"be\" right, 'And that only means that here we can't talk about \"right\".' The exact reason for the rejection of private language has been contentious. One interpretation, which has been called \"memory scepticism\", has it that one might \"remember\" the sensation wrongly, and that as a result one might misuse the term S . The other, called \"meaning scepticism\", has it that one can never be sure of the \"meaning\" of a term defined in this way.\n\nOne common interpretation is that the possibility exists that one might misremember the sensation, and therefore one does not have any firm \"criterion\" for using S in each case. So, for example, I might one day focus on \"that\" sensation, and link it to the symbol S; but the next day, I have no criteria for knowing that the sensation I have \"now\" is the same as the one yesterday, except for my memory; and since my memory might fail me, I have no firm criteria for knowing that the sensation I have now is indeed S.\n\nHowever, memory scepticism has been criticized as applying to public language, also. If one person can misremember, it is entirely possible that several people can misremember. So memory scepticism could be applied with equal effect to ostensive definitions given in a public language. For example, Jim and Jenny might one day decide to call some particular tree T; but the next day \"both\" misremember which tree it was they named. If they were depending entirely on their memory, and had not written down the location of the tree, or told anyone else, then they would appear to be with the same difficulties as the individual who defined S ostensively. And so, if this is the case, the argument presented against private language would apply equally to public language.\n\nThis interpretation (and the criticism of Wittgenstein that arises from it) is based on a complete misreading, however, because Wittgenstein's argument has nothing to do with the fallibility of human memory, but rather concerns the \"intelligibility\" of remembering something for which there is no external criterion of correctness. It is not that we will not, in fact, remember the sensation correctly, but rather that it makes no sense to talk about our memory being either correct or incorrect in this case. The point, as Diego Marconi puts it, is not so much that private language is \"a game at which we can't win, it is a game we can't lose\".\n\nWittgenstein makes this clear in section 258: \"A definition surely serves to establish the meaning of a sign.—Well, that is done precisely by the concentrating of my attention; for in this way I impress on myself the connexion between the sign and the sensation.—But \"I impress it on myself\" can only mean: this process brings it about that I remember the connexion right in the future. But in the present case, I have no criterion of correctness.\" This absence of any criterion of correctness is not a problem because it makes it more difficult for the private linguist to remember his sensation correctly; it is a problem because it undermines the intelligibility of such a concept as remembering the sensation, whether correctly or incorrectly.\n\nWittgenstein explains this unintelligibility with a series of analogies. For example, in section 265 he observes the pointlessness of a dictionary that exists only in the imagination. Since the idea of a dictionary is to justify the translation of one word by another, and thus constitute the reference of justification for such a translation, all this is lost the moment we talk of a dictionary in the imagination; for “justification consists in appealing to something independent\". Hence, to appeal to a private ostensive definition as the standard of correct use of a term would be \"as if someone were to buy several copies of the morning paper to assure himself that what it said was true.\"\n\nAnother interpretation, found for example in the account presented by Anthony Kenny has it that the problem with a private ostensive definition is not just that it might be misremembered, but that such a definition cannot lead to a meaningful statement.\n\nLet us first consider a case of ostensive definition in a public language. Jim and Jenny might one day decide to call some particular tree T; but the next day misremember which tree it was they named. In this ordinary language case, it makes sense to ask questions such as \"is this the tree we named T yesterday?\" and make statements such as \"This is not the tree we named T yesterday\". So one can appeal to other parts of the form of life, perhaps arguing: \"this is the only Oak in the forest; T was an oak; therefore this is T\".\n\nAn everyday ostensive definition is embedded in a public language, and so in the form of life in which that language occurs. Participation in a public form of life enables correction to occur. That is, in the case of a public language there are other ways to check the use of a term that has been ostensively defined. We can \"justify\" our use of the new name T by making the ostensive definition more or less explicit.\n\nBut this is not the case with S. Recall that because S is part of a private language, it is not possible to provide an explicit definition of S. The only \"possible\" definition is the private, ostensive one of associating S with \"that\" feeling. But this is the \"very thing being questioned\". \"Imagine someone saying: 'But I know how tall I am!' and laying his hand on top of his head to prove it.\"\n\nA recurrent theme in Wittgenstein's work is that for some term or utterance to have a sense, it must be conceivable that it be doubted. For Wittgenstein, tautologies do not have sense, do not say anything, and so do not admit of doubt. But furthermore, if any other sort of utterance does not admit of doubt, it must be senseless. Rush Rhees, in his notes on lectures given by Wittgenstein, while discussing the reality of physical objects, has him say:\n\nWe get something similar when we write a tautology like \"p → p\". We formulate such expressions to get something in which there is no doubt – even though the sense has vanished with the doubt.\n\nAs Kenny put it, \"Even to think \"falsely\" that something is S, I must know the meaning of S; and this is what Wittgenstein argues is impossible in the private language.\" Because there is no way to check the meaning (or use) of S \"apart from\" that private ostensive act of definition, it is not possible to \"know\" what S means. The sense has vanished with the doubt.\n\nWittgenstein uses the further analogy of the left hand giving the right hand money. The physical act might take place, but the transaction could not count as a gift. Similarly, one might say S while focusing on a sensation, but no act of naming has occurred.\n\nThe beetle-in-a-box is a famous thought experiment that Wittgenstein introduces in the context of his investigation of pains.\n\nPains occupy a distinct and vital place in the philosophy of mind for several reasons. One is that pains seem to collapse the appearance/reality distinction. If an object appears to you to be red it might not be so in reality, but if you seem to yourself to be in pain you must be so: there can be no case here of seeming at all. At the same time, one cannot feel another person’s pain, but only infer it from their behavior and their reports of it.\n\nIf we accept pains as special qualia known absolutely but exclusively by the solitary minds that perceive them, this may be taken to ground a Cartesian view of the self and consciousness. Our consciousness, of pains anyway, would seem unassailable. Against this, one might acknowledge the absolute fact of one's own pain, but claim skepticism about the existence of anyone else's pains. Alternatively, one might take a behaviorist line and claim that our pains are merely neurological stimulations accompanied by a disposition to behave.\n\nWittgenstein invites readers to imagine a community in which the individuals each have a box containing a \"beetle\". \"No one can look into anyone else's box, and everyone says he knows what a beetle is only by looking at \"his\" beetle.\"\n\nIf the \"beetle\" had a use in the language of these people, it could not be as the name of something – because it is entirely possible that each person had something completely different in their box, or even that the thing in the box constantly changed, or that each box was in fact empty. The content of the box is irrelevant to whatever language game it is used in.\n\nBy analogy, it does not matter that one cannot experience another's subjective sensations. Unless talk of such subjective experience is learned through public experience the actual content is irrelevant; all we can discuss is what is available in our public language.\n\nBy offering the \"beetle\" as an analogy to pains, Wittgenstein suggests that the case of pains is not really amenable to the uses philosophers would make of it. \"That is to say: if we construe the grammar of the expression of sensation on the model of 'object and designation,\" the object drops out of consideration as irrelevant.\"\n\nIt is common to describe language use in terms of the rules that one follows, and Wittgenstein considers rules in some detail. He famously suggests that any act can be made out to follow from a given rule. He does this in setting up a dilemma:\nThis was our paradox: no course of action could be determined by a rule, because every course of action can be made out to accord with the rule. The answer was: if everything can be made out to accord with the rule, then it can also be made out to conflict with it. And there would be neither accord nor conflict here.\nOne can give an explanation of why one followed a particular rule in a particular case. But any explanation for rule following behaviour cannot be given in terms of following a rule, without involving circularity. One can say something like \"She did X because of the rule R\" but if you say \"She followed R because of the rule R\" one can then ask \"but why did she follow rule R?\" and so potentially become involved in a regression. Explanation must have an end.\nHis conclusion: What this shows is that there is a way of grasping a rule which is \"not\" an \"interpretation\", but which is exhibited in what we call \"obeying the rule\" and \"going against it\" in actual cases.\n\nSo following a rule is a practice. And furthermore, since one can think one is following a rule and yet be mistaken, \"thinking\" one is following a rule is not the same as following it. Therefore, following a rule cannot be a private activity.\n\nIn 1982 Saul Kripke published a new and innovative account of the argument in his book \"Wittgenstein on Rules and Private Language\". Kripke takes the paradox discussed in §201 to be the central problem of the \"Philosophical Investigations\". He develops the paradox into a Grue-like problem, arguing that it similarly results in skepticism, but about \"meaning\" rather than about \"induction\". He proposes a new form of addition, which he calls \"quus\", which is identical with \"plus\" in all cases except those in which either of the numbers to be added is greater than 57, thus:\n\nformula_1\n\nHe then asks if anyone could know that previously when I thought I had meant \"plus\", I had not meant \"quus\". He claims that his argument shows that \"Each new application we make is a leap in the dark; any present intention could be interpreted to accord with anything we may choose to do. So there can be neither accord nor conflict\".\n\nKripke's account is considered by some commentators to be unfaithful to Wittgenstein, and as a result has been referred to as \"Kripkenstein\". Even Kripke himself suspected that many aspects of the account were inconsistent with Wittgenstein's original intent, leading him to urge that the book \"should be thought of as expounding neither 'Wittgenstein's' argument nor 'Kripke's': rather Wittgenstein's argument as it struck Kripke, as it presented a problem for him.\"\n\n\"Remarks in Part I of \"Investigations\" are preceded by the symbol \"§\". Remarks in Part II are referenced by their Roman numeral or their page number in the third edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34421879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34421879", "title": "Pseudorationalism", "text": "Pseudorationalism\n\nPseudorationalism was the label given by economist and philosopher Otto Neurath to a school of thought that he was heavily critical of, throughout many of his writings but primarily in his 1913 paper \"The lost wanderers of Descartes and the auxiliary motive\" and later to a lesser extent in his 1935 \"Pseudorationalismus der Falsifikation\", a review of and attack on Popper's first book, \"Logik der Forschung\" (\"The Logic of Scientific Discovery\"), contrasting this approach with his own view of what rationalism should properly be. Neurath aimed his criticism at a Cartesian belief that all actions can be subject to rational analysis, saying that\n\nNeurath considered that \"pseudo-rationalists\", be they philosophers or scientists, made the mistake of assuming that a complete rational system could be devised for the laws of nature. He argued rather that no system could be complete, being based upon a picture of reality that could only ever be incomplete and imperfect. Pseudo-rationalism, in Neurath's view, was a refusal or simple inability to face up to the limits of rationality and reason. \"Rationalism\", he wrote , \"sees its chief triumph in the clear recognition of the limits of actual insight.\". Whereas a pseudorationalist acknowledges no such limits, but rather contents that \"all\" decisions can be subject to the rules of insight. Scientific method is, according to Neurath, pseudorationalist where it contends that the rules for the scientific method will always lead ever closer to the truth.\n\nNeurath further challenged Cartesian \"pseudorationalism\" by asserting that operating upon incomplete data was in fact the norm, where Cartesian thinking would have it be the rare exception. Rather than there being one, final, rational answer to any given problem, Neurath asserted that scientific endeavour required a continuing and never-ending series of choices, made so in part because of the ambiguity of language.\n\n"}
{"id": "30123047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30123047", "title": "Rationalist–constructivist debate", "text": "Rationalist–constructivist debate\n\nThe rationalist–constructivist debate is an ontological debate within international relations theory between rationalism and constructivism. In a 1998 article, Christian Reus-Smit and Richard Price suggested that the rationalist–constructivist debate was, or was about to become, the most significant in the discipline of international relations theory. The debate can be seen as to be centered on preference formation, with rationalist theories (such as neorealism) characterising changes in terms of shifts in capabilities, whereas constructivists focus on preference formation.\n\nRationalists subscribe to positivism, the idea that scientific enquiry must rely upon empirical validation or falsification. Rationalist theories such as neorealism and neoliberalism also have exogeneously given preferences such as can be seen in Kenneth Waltz's \"Theory of International Politics\", where anarchy is a structural constraint on state behaviour.\n\nConstructivists have been seen to challenge the assumptions of rationalism in arguing that the social world is constructed. They emphasize the importance of norms and ideas in international relations.\n\nZehfuss argues that it is wrong to characterise the dialogue between the two theories as a debate due to the lack of debate between the two theories in key international relations journals. Leading rationalist James Fearon and leading constructivist Alexander Wendt argued in an article in 2002 that some form of synthesis between the two theories is possible, and that the two perspectives should have been seen primarily as methodological tools rather than diametrically opposed ontologies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35731771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35731771", "title": "Research ethics consultation", "text": "Research ethics consultation\n\nAnalogous to clinical ethics consultation, Research Ethics Consultation (REC) describes a formal way for researchers to solicit and receive expert ethical guidance related to biomedical research. The first REC service was established at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center in 1997. Today, most REC services are found at academic institutions, and the majority of current services were originally launched in response to the 2006 NIH Clinical and Translational Science Award program, as applicants to that program were required to have procedures in place to address ethical concerns raised by their research.\n\nWhile still a young discipline with no explicit standards, individuals serving as research ethics consultants are expected to be familiar with research ethics and ethical analysis; knowledgeable about the applicable regulations, laws, and policies; and ideally also have some biomedical research experience and scientific expertise. \n\nREC is distinct from related services, such as those of Institutional Review Boards, in that it is typically available at any point during a study (planning, conducting, interpreting, or disseminating results), and can relate to any ethical question. While little is known about the range and distribution of topics put forth for REC, such services may be particularly important and useful for studies of known regulatory and ethical uncertainty (e.g. assessment of minimal risk in pediatric studies) and frontier research for which there is little if any regulation or expert consensus. The recommendations that result from the consultation are non-binding, meaning that the researcher may choose to follow the recommendation, or to pursue a different approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "797758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797758", "title": "Sophie's World", "text": "Sophie's World\n\nSophie's World (Norwegian: \"Sofies verden\") is a 1991 novel by Norwegian writer Jostein Gaarder. It follows the events of Sophie Amundsen, a teenage girl living in Norway, and Alberto Knox, a middle-aged philosopher who introduces her to philosophical thinking and the history of philosophy.\n\n\"Sophie's World\" was originally written in Norwegian and became a best seller in Norway. It won the Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis in 1994. The English version of the novel was published in 1995, and the book was reported to be the best-selling book in the world in that year.\nBy 2011 the novel had been translated into fifty-nine languages, with over forty million print copies sold. It is one of the most commercially successful Norwegian novels outside of Norway, and has been adapted into a film and a PC game.\n\nSophie Amundsen (Sofie Amundsen in the Norwegian version) is a 14-year-old girl who lives in Norway in the year 1990.\n\nThe book begins with Sophie receiving two messages in her mailbox and a postcard addressed to Hilde Møller Knag. Afterwards, she receives a packet of papers, part of a course in philosophy.\n\nSophie, without the knowledge of her mother, becomes the student of an old philosopher, Alberto Knox. Alberto teaches her about the history of philosophy. She gets a substantive and understandable review from the Pre-Socratics to Jean-Paul Sartre. In addition to this, Sophie and Alberto receive postcards addressed to a girl named Hilde from a man named Albert Knag. As time passes Knag begins to hide birthday messages to Hilde in ever more impossible ways, including hiding one inside an unpeeled banana and making Alberto's dog, Hermes, speak.\n\nEventually, through the philosophy of George Berkeley, Sophie and Alberto figure out that their entire world is a literary construction by Albert Knag as a present for Hilde, his daughter, on her 15th birthday. Hilde begins to read the manuscript but begins to turn against her father after he continues to meddle with Sophie's life by sending fictional characters like Little Red Riding Hood and Ebenezer Scrooge to talk to her.\n\nAlberto helps Sophie fight back against Knag's control by teaching her everything he knows about philosophy, through the Renaissance, Romanticism, and Existentialism, as well as Darwinism and the ideas of Karl Marx. These take the form of long pages of text, and, later, monologues from Alberto. Alberto manages to concoct a plan so that he and Sophie can finally escape Albert's imagination. The trick is performed on Midsummer's Eve, during a \"philosophical garden party\" that Sophie and her mother arranged to celebrate Sophie's fifteenth birthday. The party soon begins to follow into chaos as Albert Knag lords his control over the world, causing the guests to react with indifference to extraordinary occurrences. Alberto informs everyone that their world is fictional but the guests react with rage, believing him to be instilling dangerous values in the children. When a Mercedes smashes into the garden, Alberto and Sophie use it as an opportunity to escape. Knag is so focused on writing about the car that he doesn't notice them escaping into the real world.\n\nHaving finished the book, Hilde decides to help Sophie and Alberto get revenge on her father. Alberto and Sophie cannot interact with anything in the real world and cannot be seen by anyone but other fictional characters. A woman from Grimm's Fairy Tales gives them food before they prepare to witness Knag's return to Lillesand, Hilde's home.\n\nWhile at the airport, Knag receives notes from Hilde set up at shops and gateways, instructing him on items to buy. He becomes increasingly paranoid as he wonders how Hilde is pulling the trick off. When he arrives back home, Hilde has forgiven him now that he has learned what it is like to have his world interfered with. Alberto and Sophie listen as Knag tells Hilde about one last aspect of philosophy—the universe itself. He tells her about the Big Bang and how everything is made up of the same material, which exploded outward at the beginning of time. Hilde learns that when she looks at the stars she is actually seeing into the past. Sophie makes a last effort to communicate with her by hitting her and Knag with a wrench. Knag doesn't feel anything, but Hilde feels as though a gadfly stung her, and can hear Sophie's whispers. Sophie wishes to ride in the rowboat but Alberto reminds her that as they are not real people, they cannot manipulate objects. In spite of this, Sophie manages to untie the rowboat and they ride out onto the lake, immortal and invisible to all but a few. Hilde, inspired and mesmerized by philosophy and reconnected with her father, goes out to get the boat back.\n\nIn 1999 \"Sophie's World\" was adapted into a Norwegian movie by screenwriter Petter Skavlan. It was not widely released outside of Norway. Kjersti Holmen won an Amanda Award for her role in the movie.\n\nThe 1999 movie was also presented as an eight-part TV series in Australia and Iceland, again scripted by Petter Skavlan.\n\nIt was also adapted for television in 1995 by Paul Greengrass and shown on the BBC as part of \"The Late Show\". This version starred Jessica Marshall-Gardiner as Sophie, Jim Carter as Albert Knox, and Twiggy as Sophie's Mother.\n\nIn 1999 it was made into a board game by Robert Hyde and Ken Howard, and published by Sophisticated Games Ltd. The game involves answering trivia on famous philosophers and requires players to talk for several minutes on philosophical topics such as animal rights.\n\nIn 1998 it was adapted into a PC and Mac CD-ROM game by The MultiMedia Corporation. The game allows players to learn about philosophy as in the book, while adapting the metafiction elements for a virtual world.\n\nEnglish space rock band Spiritualized named their 1997 studio album \"Ladies and Gentlemen We Are Floating in Space\" after a line in the novel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6600661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6600661", "title": "Stephen Alexander (astronomer)", "text": "Stephen Alexander (astronomer)\n\nStephen Alexander (September 1, 1806 – June 25, 1883) was a noted astronomer and educator. He was born in Schenectady, New York. He was the brother-in-law of Joseph Henry, the first secretary of the Smithsonian, and worked closely with him.\n\nHe graduated from Union College in 1824. He became a tutor in mathematics at Princeton University in 1832; he would later become professor of astronomy and mathematics and advocate for the construction of Princeton's first observatory. Alexander relied on the assistance of a free African American man named Alfred Scudder, who worked for him at Princeton during the 1850s. Because of his role as Alexander's assistant on campus, Scudder received the nickname \"Assistant Professor of Natural Philosophy\" from students.\n\nAlexander was elected an Associate Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1850. In 1860, he was the head of the expedition to observe the solar eclipse in Labrador. He was one of the original members of the National Academy of Sciences in 1862, and a member of the American Philosophical Society, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He also served as the president of this last organization in 1859. His principal writings are \"Physical Phenomena attendant upon Solar Eclipses,\" read before the American philosophical society in 1848- a paper on the \"Fundamental Principles of Mathematics,\" read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1848; another on the \"Origin of the Forms and the Present Condition of some of the Clusters of Stars and several of the Nebulm,\" read before the American Association in 1850; others on the \"Form and Equatorial Diameter of the Asteroid Planets\" and Harmonies in the Arrangement of the Solar System which seem to be Confirmatory of the Nebular Hypothesis of Laplace,\" presented to the National Academy of Science ; a \"Statement and Exposition of Certain Harmonies of the Solar System,\" which was published by the Smithsonian Institution in 1875.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54260709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54260709", "title": "Stephen Daniel", "text": "Stephen Daniel\n\nStephen H. Daniel (born June 9, 1950 in Salisbury, North Carolina) is an American philosopher and professor of philosophy at Texas A&M University. He is known for his expertise on George Berkeley. Daniel is the senior editor of \"Berkeley Studies\" and was the president of International Berkeley Society between 2006 and 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34377865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34377865", "title": "Subversive Symmetry", "text": "Subversive Symmetry\n\nSubversive Symmetry. Exploring the Fantastic in Mark 6:45-56 is a book written in 1999 by George W. Young, Assistant Professor of Biblical Studies at Queen's College, Newfoundland, Canada. He interprets the New Testament episode of Jesus' walk on water () by literary critical methods related to fantastic literature.\n\nIn the first chapter \"Moving beyond tradition\", a historical overview on mainstream exegesis is given.\n\nYoung criticizes that naturalistic explanations depend on a historical critical worldview. However, this method of exegesis would fail to capture the full meaning of the text, just like a factual interpretation. Instead, Young proposes to investigate the pericope as narrative art and to apply literary-critical methods to the text in its final redaction by Mark. Hence, he takes the text as fiction, and he chooses tools and terms often associated with fantasy literature.\n\n\"Mark as narrative art\" gives an overview of literary criticism of Mark. The following chapters highlight methods and parameters of fantastic studies (\"Introduction to Fantastic Studies\" and \"Contours of Fantasy\").\n\nIn \"Reading Mark 6:45-56 as fantastic discourse\", Young gives a verse by verse interpretation of the episode.\n\nHe underlines bidimensionality as a main feature of fantasy: It is situated between the poles of realism and the marvelous or mythic. The episode is anchored in Palestinean geography: The disciples start at the northwestern side of the Sea of Galilee (compare Mk 6,1 and 6,32f.), and they are told to cross the lake in easterly direction to Bethsaida. The first three verses accentuate a three-dimensional separation between Jesus on a mountain and the disciples below in the midst of the sea. This polarization creates a narrative void, where unpredictable events can happen. The concrete spatial structure begins to dissolve, when in v. 48 the disciples' rowing against the wind is described from their perspective; this should not be explained by Jesus' view from a high altitude or his supernatural sight.\n\nVerses 48b - 51 confront two irreconciliable levels of reality: Whereas the disciples remain in the boat, the character of Jesus appears superior to the laws of nature. His sea-walk can only be conceptualized, any placement in three-dimensional space would be absurd, e.g. the question “Did Jesus move with the waves?”. A cardinal theme of fantastic narrative is introduced: Vision provides the main epistemological criteria for the ontological question of the real and unreal. The disciples' “conventionalized reality is subverted”. Their reaction is fear and astonishment, but they have no words to identify the unspeakable. This astonishment is plausible. Together with the certification via the act of seeing it gives to the marvelous event a high degree of verisimilitude. According to Aristotle, this is a “false inference”: Such rhetoric asserts “probable impossibliities”.\n\nJesus' comforting words in v. 50b are rendered in direct speech and present tense. They convey dramatic immediacy at the climax of the story. For a first-century reader, his ὲγώ εἰμι (“I am”) without predicate makes allusion to the divine name appearing 175 times within the Septuagint in this form. Young is more interested in the open-ended aspect of the phrase. Together with the absence of the name “Jesus” between Mk 6:30 and 8:27, it creates semantic instability. This “allows the reader to write and re-write endless predicates, since none are given.”\n\nThe arrival at Gennesaret at the opposite side of Bethsaida has no rational explanation. Once again, it breaks readerly assumptions and even is reported to contradict Jesus' intention. The power operating such a fantastic journey is not named – in ancient narrative the sea was a place of chaos and disorder.\n\nThe chapters \"Rhetoric and the reader\" and \"Summary and conclusion\" raise more general issues of Mark's discourse.\n\nThe narrator's comment (v. 52) refers to a hidden meaning of the story and the previous feeding of the multitude. In contrast to Jesus' words, the rhetoric narrator accuses the disciples to not recognize Jesus' supernatural, messianic power explicitly, due to their lack of perception. Young considers this condemnation as illogical, since it does neither refer to their realistic view nor to their astonishment as adequate reaction to the supernatural. A monological “hyper-reality” is opposed to the open fantastic structure of the text. The comment may be seen as an instance of an unreliable narrator, which motivates the reader to reconsider his and the narrator's point of views. Overall, the “narrative episode [...] is structured upon a conflicting system of perspectives between the disciples, Jesus/the phantom, and the rhetorical narrator”, like an “impossible triangle”. Reality is beyond objectification. Mark created a multilevel story world with inherent contradictions, “but a world that gropes for superior realities, perceptible only through φαντασία” (\"phantasia\").\n\nThe character of Jesus appears as secretive and capricious, his actions as unpredictable and scandalous. In v. 45f., e.g., there is a gap: Jesus only says, but is not reported to really dismiss the crowd (the relative pronoun αὐτοῖς in “and after he had taken leave of them” grammatically refers to the disciples, not the crowd). It appears to be an excuse to separate from the disciples. V. 48c. has often been an enigma: Jesus wants to pass by the disciples, whereas v. 48a suggests that he intends to help them – 8 hours after having seen their distress. Similarly, unsettles and contradicts vv. 23 and 35; contrasts with Jesus' mission directed to everyone (). George W. Young notes parallels to a Greek “capricious god toying aimlessly with his subjects”.\n\nThe book has been cited by several Old and New Testament studies.\n\nDouglas W. Geyer analyzes under the aspects of “the anomalous frightful”, uncertainty and indeterminacy, which foreshadow the crucifixion. He gives many parallels in ancient historical and literary works.\n\nCamille Focant cites Young's interpretation that in v. 48 the usual spatial structures are dissolved and a fantastic element is introduced into the text when Jesus sees the disciples far away. Furthermore, Jesus' walk on water resists concrete representation. He also judges Jesus' intention to pass by the disciples as curious, but interprets this against the background of Old Testament narratives of theophany like , following John P. Meier and others. Focant criticizes Young's explication of the arrival at Gennesaret as a fantastic event, but does not explain the contradiction to the original destination, Bethsaida, as due to an inattentive compilation of two sources by Mark. Instead, he accepts the narrative analysis by E.S. Malbon: the spirit of the disciples has to be opened to the pagan world before they can arrive in a non-Jewish territory.\n"}
{"id": "40315486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40315486", "title": "The Oldest Systematic Program of German Idealism", "text": "The Oldest Systematic Program of German Idealism\n\n\"The Oldest Systematic Program of German Idealism\" () is a 1796/97 essay of unknown authorship. The document was first published (in German) by Franz Rosenzweig in 1917.\n\nAlthough the document is in G. W. F. Hegel's handwriting, it is thought it has been written by either Hegel, F. W. J. Schelling, Friedrich Hölderlin, or an unknown fourth person. Yves Bonnefoy writes that it was \"certainly inspired by Hölderlin.\" According to Glenn Magee, most Hegel scholars assume that Hegel is the author of the document.\n\nSchelling, Hegel, and Hölderlin were classmates and roommates at Tübinger Stift, the seminary of the University of Tübingen at the time, and are collectively known as the \"Tübingen Three\". Hegel and Hölderlin were 27, and Schelling was 22.\n\nRaffaele Milani writes that in the essay, \"...the idea of Beauty unifies all others in a fusion of the self and nature.\" Dieter Henrich called the document a \"program for agitation.\" It called for a new mythology to mediate between the present state and the future envisioned poeticized state, in which poetry will function for the arts and sciences, including philosophy. Jason Josephson-Storm has interpreted the essay as a source on Hegel's view of myth, especially Hegel's perception (in line with other eighteenth- and nineteenth-century German philosophers) that myth has disappeared and left a cultural vacuum, which Josephson-Storm argues anticipates the idea of disenchantment.\n\n"}
{"id": "3029772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3029772", "title": "Thereza Imanishi-Kari", "text": "Thereza Imanishi-Kari\n\nThereza Imanishi-Kari is an associate professor of pathology at Tufts University. Her research focuses on the origins of autoimmune diseases, particularly systemic lupus erythematosus, studied using mice as model organisms. Previously she had been a faculty member at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She is notable for her role in what became known as the \"Baltimore affair\", in which a 1986 paper she co-authored with David Baltimore was the subject of research misconduct allegations. Following a series of investigations, she was fully exonerated of the charges in 1996.\n\nA native of Brazil, Thereza Imanishi-Kari earned a BS degree in biology from the University of Sao Paulo near her home town of Indaiatuba, Brazil. Subsequently she studied at Kyoto University, in Kyoto, Japan, and the University of Helsinki in Finland, which awarded her a PhD in the field of immunogenetics.\n\nImanishi-Kari's research focuses on immunology, particularly on understanding the molecular and cell biology underlying the development of autoimmune disease. She studies systemic lupus erythematosus using mouse models and has been funded for this work by the Lupus Research Institute and the National Institutes of Health. Her interest in immunology was motivated in part by her sister's death due to lupus.\n\nIn 1986, Imanishi-Kari co-authored a scientific paper on immunology with David Baltimore. The paper, published in the scientific journal \"Cell\", showed unexpected results on how the immune system rearranges its genes to produce antibodies against antigens it encounters for the first time (see V(D)J recombination). Margot O'Toole, a researcher in Imanishi-Kari's lab, claimed she could not reproduce some of the experiments in the paper and accused Imanishi-Kari of fabricating the data. Since the research had been funded by the U.S. federal government through the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the matter was taken up by the United States Congress, where it was aggressively pursued by, among others, Representative John Dingell. Largely on the basis of these findings, NIH's fraud unit, then called the Office of Scientific Integrity, accused Dr. Imanishi-Kari in 1991 of falsifying data and recommended she be barred from receiving research grants for 10 years.\n\nIn 1996, a newly constituted U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) appeals panel reviewed the case again and dismissed all charges against Imanishi-Kari. In August 1996 she gained an official position as an assistant professor in the pathology department of the Tufts University School of Medicine. There was widespread criticism of the government's system for dealing with allegations of misconduct, and calls for review of the oversight procedures dealing with the integrity of biomedical research. The case of alleged scientific misconduct and her exoneration was reported in \"Scientific American\". A \"New York Times\" editorial at the time described the final result of the ten-year investigation as \"embarrassment for the Federal Government and belated vindication for the accused scientist\".\n\nThe high profile of the case resulted in a great deal of published commentary on the matter. The mathematician Serge Lang discussed the case in an article published in the journal \"Ethics and Behavior\" in January 1993. Several books, including \"The Baltimore Case\" (1998) by Daniel Kevles of Yale University and \"\" by science historian Horace Freeland Judson, also covered the Baltimore affair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16191987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191987", "title": "Thomas Wilton", "text": "Thomas Wilton\n\nThomas Wilton (active from 1288 to 1322) was an English theologian and scholastic philosopher, a pupil of Duns Scotus, a teacher at the University of Oxford and then the University of Paris, where he taught Walter Burley. He was a Fellow of Merton College from about 1288.\n\nHe attacked some of Burley's theses. He wrote on and rejected the theory of motion of Averroes, provoking a reply by John of Jandun. In discussing the eternity of the world, he connects the views of Maimonides and Aquinas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1342185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342185", "title": "Towards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration", "text": "Towards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration\n\nTowards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration expresses the ethical commitments held in common by the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions.\n\nAt the request of the Council for a Parliament of the World's Religions, Hans Küng, President of the Foundation for a Global Ethic (\"Stiftung Weltethos\"), wrote an initial draft in consultation with fellow scholars and religious leaders. The Council's leaders and Trustees then worked on the final draft in consultation with Küng and their own, extensive network of leaders and scholars from various religions and regions. Most notable in leading this effort were Daniel Gómez-Ibáñez, the Executive Director of the Council, and Thomas A. Baima, a member of the Board of Trustees.\n\nThe declaration identifies two fundamental ethical demands as its foundation. First: the Golden Rule: \"What you wish done to yourself, do to others,\" \"a principle which is found and has persisted in many religious and ethical traditions of humankind of thousands of years.\" Second: every human being must be treated humanely—an insight the beginnings of which exists in every great religious or ethical traditions.\n\nThe two fundamental ethical demands are made concrete in four directives, which are \"convincing and practical for all women and men of good will, religious and non-religious\". These directives are elaborated in the \"Global Ethic\". They are:\n\nThe \"Global Ethic\" acknowledges that some significant differences exist between, and among, the religions. Still, these differences need not, it insists, stop them \"from proclaiming publicly those things\" that they already hold in common and that they jointly affirm. Each tradition holds those things to be true on the basis of their own religious or ethical grounds.\n\nBecause its goal was to express those things about which the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions agree, no religious or theological terms appear in \"the Global Ethic\". Some religions such as Buddhism do not have a god while other religions such as Hinduism have many.\n\nIn his account of the writing of the \"Global Ethic\", Küng describes several working parameters: It should 1) make a clear distinction between the ethical level and the purely legal or political level, 2) not duplicate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights because an ethic is more than rights, 3) avoid political declarations, 4) not devolve into casuistry, 5) forego any attempt to become a philosophical treatise, and, 6) set aside enthusiastic religious proclamations. On a positive programmatic level, the declaration must: 1) penetrate to the deep ethical level of binding values, irrevocable criteria, and basic inner attitudes, 2) be capable of securing moral unanimity and steer clear of statements rejected by the religions, 3) offer constructive criticism, 4) relate to the world as it really is, 5) use language familiar to newspaper readers (no technical jargon!), 6) have a religious foundation since, for the religions, an ethic must have a religious foundation.\n\nIn the summer of 1993, \"The \"Global Ethic\"\" was ratified as an official document of the Parliament of the World's Religions by a vote of its Trustees. It was then signed by more than 200 leaders from 40+ different faith traditions and spiritual communities during the international gathering organized by the Parliament in 1993 in Chicago, Illinois · USA. The majority of participants attending the gathering also endorsed \"the \"Global Ethic\"\" by acclamation. Since 1993 leaders and individuals around the world continue to endorse the \"Global Ethic\" with their signatures. It has served as a common ground for people to discuss, to agree, and to cooperate for the good of all.\n\nSince 1993, agreement has emerged among the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions on issues tied to the environment. Aware of this shift, and because the \"Global Ethic\" was intended from the start to be a living document, the Parliament of the World's Religions decided to expand the \"Global Ethic\" with a fifth directive. Led by Myriam Renaud, the Parliament's Global Ethic Project Director, a task force wrote an initial draft. After soliciting and reflecting on 100+ pages of comments offered by scholars and religious leaders from many of the world's faith traditions and regions, the task force prepared and then submitted a final draft to the Trustees for their vote. The \"Global Ethic\", expanded with a fifth directive, became official in July 2018:\n\nHumanity's shared home was mentioned in the 1993 draft of the \"Global Ethic\". Its first directive states that the lives of animals and plants deserve protection and care and that people, especially with a view to future generations, have a special responsibility for the Earth's air, water and soil. The fifth directive sets out in greater detail what this responsibility entails—for example: \"Caring and prudent use of resources is based on fairness in consumption and takes into account limits on what ecosystems can bear.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977567", "title": "Universal prescriptivism", "text": "Universal prescriptivism\n\nUniversal prescriptivism (often simply called prescriptivism) is the meta-ethical view which claims that, rather than expressing propositions, ethical sentences function similarly to imperatives which are universalizable—whoever makes a moral judgment is committed to the same judgment in any situation where the same relevant facts obtain.\n\nThis makes prescriptivism a universalist form of non-cognitivism. Prescriptivism stands in opposition to other forms of non-cognitivism (such as emotivism and quasi-realism), as well as to all forms of cognitivism (including both moral realism and ethical subjectivism).\n\nSince prescriptivism was introduced by philosopher R. M. Hare in his 1952 book \"The Language of Morals\", it has been compared to emotivism and to the categorical imperative of Immanuel Kant. Unlike Kant, however, Hare does not invoke universalizability as a test of moral permissibility. Instead, he sees it as a consistency requirement that is built into the logic of moral language and helps to make moral thinking a rational enterprise.\n\nHare originally proposed prescriptivism as a kind of amendment to emotivism. Like emotivists, Hare believes that moral discourse is not primarily informative or fact-stating. But whereas emotivists claim that moral language is mainly intended to express feelings or to influence behavior, Hare believes that the central purpose of moral talk is to guide behavior by telling someone what to do. Its main purpose is to \"prescribe\" (recommend) a certain act, not to get someone to do that act or to express one's personal feelings or attitudes.\n\nTo illustrate the prescriptivist view, consider the moral sentence \"Suicide is wrong.\" According to moral realism, such a sentence claims there to be some objective property of \"wrongness\" associated with the act of suicide. According to some versions of emotivism, such a sentence merely expresses an attitude of the speaker; it only means something like \"Boo on suicide!\" But according to prescriptivism, the statement \"Suicide is wrong\" means something more like \"Do not commit suicide.\" What it expresses is thus not primarily a description or an emotion, but an \"imperative\". General value terms like \"good\", \"bad\", right\", \"wrong\" and \"ought\" usually also have descriptive and emotive meanings, but these are not its primary meanings according to prescriptivists.\n\nPrescriptivism has been widely criticized and has few adherents today. Many ethicists reject Hare's claim that moral language is not informative—that the purpose of moral talk is not to express moral truths or moral facts. Numerous critics also question Hare's contention that providing guidance is always the main purpose of moral talk. Hare seems to implicitly assume that moral language is always used in a context of discussion, debate, or command in which one person is telling another person, or persons, what to do. This, it is claimed, ignores the fact that moral talk is a \"language-game\" that is used for a wide variety of purposes. Finally, many critics have argued that prescriptivism conflicts with the commonsense distinction between good and bad reasons for moral beliefs. According to Hare, a racist \"fanatic\" who claims that all minority-group members should be deported, and is willing to stick with this consistently (e.g., even if the racist herself were a member of the minority group), cannot be faulted for either irrationality or falsehood. Ethics, for Hare, is thus ultimately a matter of non-rational choice and commitment. Many of Hare's critics object that reason does and should play a larger role in ethics than he recognizes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13789137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13789137", "title": "Valuation-based system", "text": "Valuation-based system\n\nValuation-based system (VBS) is a framework for knowledge representation and inference. Real-world problems are modeled in this framework by a network of interrelated entities, called variables. The relationships between variables (possibly uncertain or imprecise) are represented by the functions called valuations. The two basic operations for performing inference in a VBS are combination and marginalization. Combination corresponds to the aggregation of knowledge, while marginalization refers to the focusing (coarsening) of it. VBSs were introduced by Prakash P. Shenoy in 1989 as general frameworks for managing uncertainty in expert systems.\n\nVBS are used for knowledge representation in expert systems and data fusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46898685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46898685", "title": "Virtue name", "text": "Virtue name\n\nVirtue names, also known as grace names, are used as personal names in a number of cultures. In the English-speaking world, the Puritans commonly expressed their values through creative names, many in the form of virtue names like Grace, Felicity, Chastity or Hope. These names have entered the standard British and American usage, without the religious connection.\n\nVirtue names, such as Iman, can also be found in the Islamic world.\n\n"}
{"id": "1056121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1056121", "title": "Yeshayahu Leibowitz", "text": "Yeshayahu Leibowitz\n\nYeshayahu Leibowitz (; 29 January 1903 – 18 August 1994) was an Israeli Orthodox Jewish public intellectual and polymath. He was professor of biochemistry, organic chemistry, and neurophysiology at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, as well as a prolific writer on Jewish thought and western philosophy. He was known for his outspoken views on ethics, religion, and politics.\n\nYeshayahu Leibowitz was born in Riga, Russian Empire (now in Latvia) in 1903, to a religious Zionist family. His father was a lumber trader, and his cousin was future chess grandmaster Aron Nimzowitsch. In 1919, he studied chemistry and philosophy at the University of Berlin. After completing his doctorate in 1924, he went on to study biochemistry and medicine, receiving an MD in 1934 from the University of Basel.\n\nHe migrated to Israel in 1935, and settled in Jerusalem. Leibowitz was married to Greta, with whom he had six children.\n\nHis son, Elia, was chairman of the Tel Aviv University astrophysics department, and the longest-serving director of the Wise Observatory. Another son, Uri, was a professor of medicine at Hadassah University Medical Center.\n\nHis daughter, Yiska, is a district prosecutor. His sister, Nechama Leibowitz, was a world-famous biblical scholar.\n\nLeibowitz was active until his last day. He died in his sleep on 18 August 1994.\n\nLeibowitz joined the faculty of mathematics and natural science of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1936. He became a professor of biochemistry in 1941, and was promoted to the position of senior professor of organic chemistry and neurology in 1952. He taught at the Hebrew University for nearly six decades, lecturing in biochemistry, neurophysiology, philosophy, and the history of science.\n\nLeibowitz was an Orthodox Jew who held some controversial views on the subject of \"halakha\", or Jewish law. He wrote that the sole purpose of religious commandments was to obey God, and not to receive any kind of reward in this world or the world to come. He maintained that the reasons for religious commandments were beyond man's understanding, as well as irrelevant, and any attempt to attribute emotional significance to the performance of \"mitzvot\" was misguided and akin to idolatry.\n\nThe essence of Leibowitz's religious outlook is that a person's faith is his commitment to obey God, meaning God's commandments, and this has nothing to do with a person's image of God. This must be so because Leibowitz thought that God cannot be described, that God's understanding is not man's understanding, and thus, all the questions asked of God are out of place. Leibowitz claimed that a person's decision to believe in God (in other words: to obey him) defines or describes that person, not God.\n\nOne result of this approach is that faith, which is a personal commitment to obey God, cannot be challenged by the usual philosophical problem of evil or by historical events that seemingly contradict a divine presence. When someone told Leibowitz that he stopped believing in God after the Holocaust, Leibowitz answered, \"Then you never believed in God\". If a person stops believing after an awful event, it shows that he only obeyed God because he thought he understood God's plan, or because he expected to see a reward. But \"for Leibowitz, religious belief is not an explanation of life, nature, or history, or a promise of a future in this world or another, but a demand\".\n\nLeibowitz was a staunch believer in the separation of state and religion. He believed that mixing the two corrupted faith. He condemned the veneration of Jewish shrines, cynically referring to the Western Wall as the \"Discotel\" (a play on the words \"discothèque\" and \"Kotel\", a transliterated Hebrew word which literally means \"wall\", but capitalized refers to the Western Wall).\n\nIn contrast to his strict views on some religious matters, he was surprisingly liberal in others. On the subject of homosexuality, for example, Leibowitz believed that despite the ban on homosexual relations in Judaism, homosexuals should do their best to remain observant Jews.\n\nLeibowitz served as the editor of the \"Encyclopaedia Hebraica\" in its early stages. Apart from his innumerable articles and essays, Leibowitz authored a wide range of books on philosophy, human values, Jewish thought, the teachings of Maimonides, and politics. Many of his lectures and discourses, including those given as part of the \"Broadcast University\" project run by Israeli Army Radio, were subsequently compiled and printed in book form. Leibowitz was a prolific letter-writer, and his advice or comment was sought out widely. A first collection of his letters (in Hebrew) was published posthumously.\n\nEven before the founding of Israel, Leibowitz was an adamant supporter of a separation between religious institutions and the state – he even personally asked this of David Ben-Gurion. He became progressively critical of government policy following the 1953 Qibya massacre. In his later philosophy, he denied that the state of Israel had any Jewish religious significance, and became an outspoken defender of the complete separation between religion and state. He was among the first Israeli intellectuals to state immediately after the 1967 Six-Day War that if occupation continued, this would lead to the decline in moral stature.\n\nIn a 1968 essay titled \"The Territories\", Leibowitz postulated a hellish future:\n\nThe Arabs would be the working people and the Jews the administrators, inspectors, officials, and police—mainly secret police. A state ruling a hostile population of 1.5 to 2 million foreigners would necessarily become a secret-police state, with all that this implies for education, free speech and democratic institutions. The corruption characteristic of every colonial regime would also prevail in the State of Israel. The administration would suppress Arab insurgency on the one hand and acquire Arab Quislings on the other. There is also good reason to fear that the Israel Defense Forces, which has been until now a people's army, would, as a result of being transformed into an army of occupation, degenerate, and its commanders, who will have become military governors, resemble their colleagues in other nations.\n\nIn 1993, he was selected for the Israel Prize. Before the award ceremony, Leibowitz was invited to speak to the Israel Council for Israeli–Palestinian Peace, where his controversial remarks calling upon Israeli soldiers to refuse orders triggered outrage (and Yitzhak Rabin had threatened to boycott the ceremony). The jury convened to discuss the possibility of withdrawing the prize, but Leibowitz himself announced that he would refuse to accept it, because he did not want to create antagonism when receiving the prize.\n\nLeibowitz has six children. Two of them died while he was alive. Shamai Leibowitz is one of his grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "15730095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15730095", "title": "Zhenren", "text": "Zhenren\n\nZhenren () is a Chinese term that first appeared in the \"Zhuangzi\" meaning \"Daoist spiritual master\", roughly translatable as \"Perfected Person\". Religious Daoism mythologized \"zhenren\" to rank above \"xian\" \"transcendent; immortal\" in the celestial hierarchy, while Chinese Buddhism used it to translate \"arhat\" \"enlightened one\".\n\nThe common Chinese word \"zhen\" 真 \"true; real; authentic\" is linguistically unusual. It was originally written with an ideogram (one of the rarest types in Chinese character classification) depicting \"spiritual transformation\". It originated in the Daoist \"Dao De Jing\" and does not appear in the early Confucian classics.\n\nThe archaic Chinese character 眞 was reduced into 真, which is the Traditional Chinese character, Simplified Chinese character, and Japanese Kanji. (Note the slight font variation between Chinese and Japanese : when enlarged，the Japanese character reveals separation between the central and lower parts.) This modern character 真 appears to derive from \"wu\" 兀 \"stool\" under \"zhi\" 直 \"straight\", but the ancient 眞 has \"hua\" 匕 (a reduced variant of 化) \"upside-down person; transformation\" at the top, rather than \"shi\" 十 \"10\". This antiquated \"zhen\" 眞 derives from Seal Script characters (4th-3rd centuries BCE). It is tentatively identified in the earlier Bronzeware script (with 匕 over \"ding\" 鼎 \"cooking vessel; tripod; cauldron\") and unidentified in the earliest Oracle bone script.\n\nXu Shen's \"Shuowen Jiezi\" (122 CE), the first Chinese dictionary of characters, gives Small seal script and \"ancient text\" forms of \"zhen\" 眞, noting origins in Daoism. It defines 眞 as \"A \"xian\" (Daoist \"transcendent; immortal\") transforming shape and ascending into Heaven\" (僊人變形而登天也), and interprets 眞 as an ideogram with 匕 \"upside-down person\", 目 \"eye\", and ∟ \"conceal\" representing the \"xian\" plus 八 representing the conveyance. In Coyle's interpretation,\nThe etymological components suggest \"transforming\" to a \"higher\" level of character, thus genuineness is to be conceived as fundamentally transformational, that is, as an ongoing process of change. As Wang Bi's (226-249 C.E.) commentary to the \"Yijing\" suggests, \"zhen\" is in \"constant mutation.\" By envisioning a new image, it appears, with \"zhen\", the writers of the \"Laozi\" and \"Zhuangzi\" wanted to distinguish their teaching from others. (1998:198) \n\nDuan Yucai's \"Shuowen\" commentary (1815 CE) confirms that \"zhen\" originally depicted a Daoist \"zhenren\" and was semantically extended to mean \"cheng\" 誠 \"sincere; honest; true; actual; real\". It explains the ideographic components in Daoist \"xian\" terms, 匕 for \"hua\" 化 \"change; transformation\" (see the \"Huashu\"), 目 for the \"eyes; vision\" in \"neidan\" practices, ∟ \"conceal\" for invisibility; and, it notes three traditional \"xian\" conveyances into the heavens (\"qi\", Chinese dragon, and \"qilin\"). \n\nDuan differentiates two semantic sets of words written with the \"zhen\" 真/眞 phonetic element and different radicals. The first words basically mean \"chongshi\" 充實 \"real; solid; substantial; substantiate; fill out; strengthen\".\nThe second set of words basically mean \"ding\" 頂 \"crown (of head); top; tip; summit; prop up; fall down\".\n\nThe modern Standard Chinese pronunciation of 真 is \"zhēn\" \"true; real\". Reconstructed Middle Chinese and Old Chinese pronunciations include \"tyĕn\" < *\"tśyĕn\" (Bernhard Karlgren), \"tśiɪn\" < *\"tjien\" (Zhou Fagao), \"tʃiĕn\" < *\"tien\" (Tōdō Akiyasu), or \"tśin\" < *\"tin\" (Axel Schuessler). \n\nTōdō (1964:743-745) envisions that the original \"upside-down \"zhenren\"\" ideograph pictured a sacrificial victim \"zhen\" 眞 \"falling into; fitting into\" a burial pit being \"tian\" 塡 \"filled in\", and proposes an etymon of *\"TEN\" \"full; stuffed\" (expanding upon Duan Yucai's examples above).\n\nSchuessler's etymological dictionary (2007:610) cites Ming- and Yuan dynasty-era transcriptions of . It suggests etymological connections with Tibetan \"bden pa\" \"true\" (see two truths doctrine) and possibly Chinese \"zhēn\" 貞 \"divination, divine; test; verify; faithful; loyal\".\n\nThe root word of \"zhenren\" is \"zhen\" 真 \"true; real; factual; genuine; authentic; actual; really; truly; indeed\", which has a special Daoist meaning of a person's \"true, original, undamaged character\".\n\nThe \"Hanyu Da Zidian\", which lists meanings in order of historical development, defines 15 for \"zhen\":\nAccording to this historical dictionary of Chinese characters, the first occurrences of \"zhen\" are in Daoist classics. The \"Dao De Jing\" uses it in meaning 2 and the \"Zhuangzi\" uses \"zhen\" in meanings 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8.\n\n\"Zhen\" 真 \"true; real\" originally occurs three times in the \"Dao De Jing\" (ca. 4th-3rd centuries BCE?), where Coyle says,\n[I]t is employed as a special term to contrast with the transitoriness and superficiality of \"man-made\" formalities. In this novel approach, \"genuineness\" is not understood as any sort of \"unchanging reality,\" but rather has to do with change and \"cultivation.\" The first time we encounter \"zhen\" in the \"Inner Chapters\" [see \"Zhuangzi\" 2 below] is in the context of the flux and interrelatedness of life and death, where \"genuineness\" is something ever-present, yet without any apprehensible fixed \"identity\". (1998:197) \nOne of these three \"zhen\" usages describes \"Dao\" \"Way\" and the other two describe \"De\" \"integrity; virtue\".\nHow cavernous and dark! Yet within it there is an essence. Its essence is quite real; Within it there are tokens. (21, tr. Mair 1990:85) \nThe greatest whiteness seems grimy. Ample integrity seems insufficient. Robust integrity seems apathetic. Plain truth seems sullied. (41, tr. Mair 1990:7) \nCultivated in the person, integrity is true. Cultivated in the family, integrity is ample. Cultivated in the village, integrity lasts long. … (54, tr. Mair 1990:23) \n\nWhile the \"Dao De Jing\" has the first occurrences of \"zhen\" \"true; real; etc.\", the \"Zhuangzi\" has the first recorded usages of \"zhenren\" \"true person\". Later \"zhenren\" meanings are found in Buddhist and other texts.\n\nThe \"Zhuangzi\" (ca. 3rd-2nd centuries BCE) has 66 occurrences of \"zhen\", 19 of them in the compound \"zhenren\". Burton Watson translates it as \"True Man\", and notes \"Another term for the Taoist sage, synonymous with the Perfect Man or the Holy Man.\" The most descriptive \"zhenren\" passage repeats it 9 times. \nThere must first be a True Man before there can be true knowledge. What do I mean by a True Man? The True Man of ancient times did not rebel against want, did not grow proud in plenty, and did not plan his affairs. A man like this could commit an error and not regret it, could meet with success and not make a show. A man like this could climb the high places and not be frightened, could enter the water and not get wet, could enter the fire and not get burned. His knowledge was able to climb all the way up to the Way like this.\n\nThe True Man of ancient times slept without dreaming and woke without care; he ate without savoring and his breath came from deep inside. The True Man breathes with his heels; the mass of men breathe with their throats. Crushed and bound down, they gasp out their words as though they were retching. Deep in their passions and desires, they are shallow in the workings of Heaven. \n\nThe True Man of ancient times knew nothing of loving life, knew nothing of hating death. He emerged without delight; he went back in without a fuss. He came briskly, he went briskly, and that was all. He didn't forget where he began; he didn't try to find out where he would end. He received something and took pleasure in it; he forgot about it and handed it back again. This is what I call not using the mind to repel the Way, not using man to help out Heaven. This is what I call the True Man. …\n\nThis was the True Man of old: his bearing was lofty and did not crumble; he appeared to lack but accepted nothing; he was dignified in his correctness but not insistent; he was vast in his emptiness but not ostentatious. Mild and cheerful, he seemed to be happy; reluctant, he could not help doing certain things; annoyed, he let it show in his face; relaxed, he rested in his virtue. Tolerant, he seemed to be part of the world; towering alone, he could be checked by nothing; withdrawn, he seemed to prefer to cut himself off; bemused, he forgot what he was going to say. …\n\nTherefore his liking was one and his not liking was one. His being one was one and his not being one was one. In being one, he was acting as a companion of Heaven. In not being one, he was acting as a companion of man. When man and Heaven do not defeat each other, then we may be said to have the True Man. (6, 大宗師, tr. Watson 1968:77-80) \nGuo Xiang (d. 312 CE), the earliest known \"Zhuangzi\" editor and commentator, explains this passage.\nThe \"zhenren\" unifies Heaven and man, and levels the myriad extensions. The myriad extensions do not oppose each other, and Heaven and man do not overcome each other. Thus being vast he is one, being dark he is omnipresent – he mysteriously unifies the other with his own self. (tr. Coyle 1998:204) \n\nWatson's \"True Man of ancient times\" and \"True Man of old\" translate \"gu zhi zhenren\" 古之真人, which the \"Zhuangzi\" uses 7 times. For instance, this contrast with the \"shenren\" 神人 \"holy person\"\n\nUse the eye to look at the eye, the ear to listen to the ear, and the mind to restore the mind. Do this and your levelness will be as though measured with the line, your transformations will be a form of compliance. The True Man of ancient times used Heaven to deal with man; he did not use man to work his way into Heaven. The True Man of ancient times got it and lived, lost it and died; got it and died, lost it and lived. Medicines will serve as an example. There are monkshood, balloonflower, cockscomb, and chinaroot; each has a time when it is the sovereign remedy, though the individual cases are too numerous to describe. (24, tr. Watson 1968:277) \n\nAnother \"Zhuangzi\" chapter depicts \"zhenren\" as oblivious to punishment.\nGoverning is a difficult thing. To dispense favors to men without ever forgetting that you are doing so – this is not Heaven's way of giving. Even merchants and peddlers are unwilling to be ranked with such a person; and although their occupations may seem to rank them with him, in their hearts they will never acquiesce to such a ranking. External punishments are administered by implements of metal and wood; internal punishments are inflicted by frenzy and excess. When the petty man meets with external punishments, the implements of metal and wood bear down on him; when he incurs internal punishment, the yin and yang eat him up. To escape both external and internal punishment – only the True Man is capable of this. (32, tr. Watson 1968:358) \n\nThe \"Huainanzi\" (2nd century BCE) mentions \"zhenren\" \"true person\" 11 times. One \"Huainanzi\" chapter uses \"zhenren\" to describe a spiritual state in which \"closing the four senses\" results in one's \"jing\" 精 \"essence\" and \"shen\" 神 \"spirit\" returning to the ultimate Daoist \"zhen\" 真 \"truth\".\nHence the spiritual faculties will be hidden in the invisible world, and the spirit will return to the Perfect Body (or the Perfect Realm). … The spirit fills the eye, so he sees clearly; it is present in the ear, so he hears acutely; it abides in the mouth, and so the person's words are with wisdom; it accumulates in the mind, so his thoughts are penetrative. Hence the closing down of the Four Senses gives the body rest from troubles, and the individual parts have no sickness. There is no death, no life, no void, no excess; in such a condition of spirit, like the diamond, it will not wear away; such are the characteristics of the Perfect Man. (8, tr. Morgan 1934:93) \n\nA second chapter uses \"zhenren\" to describe Fu Xi and Nüwa.\nDrifting aimlessly, they led the ghosts and spirits and ascended the Nine Heavens, where they paid court to the Lord as the Sacred Gate and remained reverently silent in the presence of the Great Ancestor. Even then, they would not extol their own merit, or trumpet their own fame. [Rather], they concealed within themselves the \"Tao\" of the True Man and thereby followed the unchanging course of Heaven and Earth. How was this [possible]? With their \"Tao\" and \"Te\" they communicated with what was on high, whereas their knowledge of factual matters was obliterated. (6, tr. Le Blanc 1985:162-3) \n\nA third \"Huainanzi\" chapter contains what Le Blanc considers \"the \"locus classicus\" for the True Man's ability to return to the origin.\"\nHe who can return to that which produced [him] as if he had not yet acquired [physical] form, we call him a True Man. The True Man is he who has not yet begun to differentiate himself from the Great Unity (\"wei shih fen yu t'ai-yi che\" 未始分於太一者). (14, tr. Le Blanc 1985:114) \n\nLe Blanc (1985:195) describes how the \"Huainanzi\" synthesizes the \"other-worldly\" \"zhenren\" \"True Man\" with the \"this-worldly\" \"shengren\" \"Sage\"; \"In pre-Han works, the expression \"chen-jen\" seems to be found only in works of Taoist inspiration and always refers to the quasi-mystical and contemplative strand of Taoism.\" He concludes.\nThe point of the two \"Huai-nan tzu\" fables seems to be that in times of peace the True Man does not reveal his inner greatness. This is a Taoist tenet consistent with the ineffability of \"Tao\". So, petty men of limited scope and skills deride the True Man, who is untrained in any particular skill. But in periods of imminent chaos (the clash of darkness and light, of \"Yin\" and \"Yang\") the True Man suddenly manifests world-shaking power (universal resonance) and completely overwhelms his detractors. (1985:150) \n\nThe southern \"Chuci\" (2nd century CE), which has Daoist elements although not strictly a \"Daoist text\", uses \"zhenren\" in two poems. \"Yuan you\" \"Far-off journey\" contrasts it with \"xian\".\nI honoured the wondrous powers of the Pure Ones,<br> And those of past ages who had become Immortals. <br> They departed in the flux of change and vanished from men's sight, <br> Leaving a famous name that endures after them. (tr. Hawkes 1985:194) \n\"Shou zhi\" \"Maintaining Resolution\" (in the \"Nine Longings\" section) also uses it, translated here as \"Immortals\".\nI visited Fu Yue, bestriding a dragon, <br> Joined up in marriage with the Weaving Maiden, <br> Lifted up Heaven's Net to capture evil, <br> Drew the Bow of Heaven to shoot at wickedness, <br> Followed the Immortals fluttering through the sky. (tr. Hawkes 1985:318) \n\nThe Daoist \"Liezi\" (ca. 4th century CE) uses \"zhenren\" in two chapters. The first usage (3, tr. Giles 1912:60) refers to the \"Zhuangzi\" (6) saying \"zhenren\" slept without dreaming.\nA dream is something that comes into contact with the mind; an external event is something that impinges on the body. Hence our feelings by day and our dreams by night are the result of contacts made by mind or body. it follows that if we can concentrate the maid in abstraction, our feelings and our dreams will vanish of themselves. Those who rely on their waking perceptions will not argue about them. Those who put faith in dreams do not understand the processes of change in the external world. \"The pure men of old passed their waking existence in self-oblivion, and slept without dreams.\" How can this be dismissed as an empty phrase? \n\nThe other chapter usage (8, tr. Forke 1912:47-48) concerns the politician Zi Chan 子產 (d. 522 BCE). He was able to govern the state of Zheng but not control his brothers who loved wine and women – but were secretly \"zhenren\". Zi Chan asks the Daoist sage Deng Xi 鄧析 how to \"save\" them, but misunderstands Deng's answer and admonishes his brothers with Confucianist morality and bribes, \"Hear my words. Repent in the morning, and in the evening you will have already gained the wage that will support you\". His brothers reply,\nLong ago we knew it and made our choice. Nor had we to wait for your instructions to enlighten us. It is very difficult to preserve life, and easy to come by one's death. Yet who would think of awaiting death, which comes so easily, on account of the difficulty of preserving life? You value proper conduct and righteousness in order to excel before others, and you do violence to your feelings and nature in striving for glory. That to us appears to be worse than death. Our only fear is lest, wishing to gaze our fill at all the beauties of this one life, and to exhaust all the pleasures of the present years, the repletion of the belly should prevent us from drinking what our palate delights in, or the slackening of our strength not allow us to revel with pretty women. We have no time to trouble about bad reputations or mental dangers. Therefore for you to argue with us and disturb our minds merely because you surpass others in ability to govern, and to try and allure us with promises of glory and appointments, is indeed shameful and deplorable. But we will now settle the question with you. See now. If anybody knows how to regulate external things, the things do not of necessity become regulated, and his body has still to toil and labour. But if anybody knows how to regulate internals, the things go on all right, and the mind obtains peace and rest. Your system of regulating external things will do temporarily and for a single kingdom, but it is not in harmony with the human heart, while our method of regulating internals can be extended to the whole universe, and there would be no more princes and ministers. We always desired to propagate this doctrine of ours, and now you would teach us yours. \nZi Chan is perplexed and speechless, so he goes back to Deng Xi who explains, \"You are living together with real men without knowing it. Who calls you wise? [Z]heng has been governed by chance, and without merit of yours.\"\n\nThe little-known Daoist text \"Wenzi\" has 17 occurrences of \"zhenren\". For example, this context echoes \"Zhuangzi\" (6) in defining \"zhenren\" as sleeping without dreaming.\nThe Way molds myriad beings but is ever formless. Silent and unmoving, it totally comprehends the undifferentiated unknown. No vastness is great enough to be outside it, no minuteness is small enough to be inside it. It has no house but gives birth to all the names of the existent and nonexistent. Real people embody this through open emptiness, even easiness, clear cleanness, flexible yielding, unadulterated purity, and plain simplicity, not getting mixed up in things. Their perfect virtue is the Way of heaven and earth, so they are called real people. Real people know how to deem the self great and the world small, they esteem self-government and disdain governing others. They do not let things disturb their harmony, they do not let desires derange their feelings. Concealing their names, they hide when the Way is in effect and appear when it is not. They act without contrivance, work without striving, and know without intellectualizing. … Therefore real people deliberately return to essence, relying on the support of spirit, thus attaining completeness. So they sleep without dreams and awake without worries. (tr. Cleary 1991:7-8) \n\nAccording to Daniel Coyle, \nFrom the period of the Han to the Six Dynasties the \"zhenren\" took on a more religious significance, becoming one of the linchpins of \"Daoism.\" Movements of alchemy, life-prolonging techniques, and the quest for \"immortality\" flourished, yet most mystical allusions remained firmly ground in the \"Zhuangzi\". From the Zhuangzian perspective, the \"religious\" experience (etymologically, that which binds together) becomes a personal rapture that elevates one from the microcosmic to an altogether macrocosmic perspective – a perspective that affirms continuity as the fabric of unity – that somehow binds one to the totality of existence in a personal integration and affirmation of all. (1998:205) \n\nDaoists applied the honorific title \"Zhenren\" to their sages. Zhou Yishan 周義山 (b. 80 BCE) was called Ziyang Zhenren 紫陽真人 \"True Person of Purple Yang\", a name later applied to Zhang Ziyang 張紫陽, author of the \"Wuzhen pian\" (note \"zhen\" \"reality; perfection\" in the title). \n\nMiura (2007:1266) notes that religious Daoism associated the \"zhenren\" with the \"xianren\" \"transcendent; immortal\" and quotes the \"Ziyang zhenren neizhuan\" 紫陽真人內傳 \"Inner Biography of the True Person of Purple Yang\" (4th century CE) that there are upper, middle, and lower degrees of \"xian\", with \"zhenren\" occupying the upper rank in the celestial bureaucracy.\n\nAfter originating in early Daoist texts, the \"zhenren\" \"true person\" was semantically expanded to mean Buddhist \"arhat\" and miscellaneous senses such as \"honest person\".\n\nChinese Buddhists adapted \"zhenren\" 真人 to translate the loanword \"arhat\" or \"arahant\" \"one who has achieved enlightenment\", which was also transcribed as \"aluohan\" 阿羅漢 or \"luohan\" 羅漢. Buddhist usage contrasts \"zhenren\" \"arhat\" with \"niren\" 逆人 \"contrary person; hateful person; unprincipled person\".\n\nThe oldest example is the Tang Dynasty (c. 649) Buddhist dictionary \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" \"Pronunciation and Meaning in the \"Tripitaka\"\", edited by Xuan Ying 玄應. \n\nChinese \"zhen\" \"true; etc.\" was used to translate various other Buddhist expressions. \"Mantra\" \"instrument of thought\" translates as Chinese \"zhenyan\" 真言 \"true words\" and Japanese \"Shingon\" Buddhism. \"Tathata\" \"thusness, suchness, the unconditioned, unchanging reality\" is Chinese \"zhenru\" 真如 \"true resemblance\" and Japanese \"shinnyo\" (see Shinnyo En).\n\nChinese authors used \"zhenren\" \"true person\" to name sage-rulers, honest people, a star, an evolutionary term, and proper names. \n\n\"Zhenren\" can mean \"heaven-sent ruler\". Beginning around the end of the 1st century BCE, says Miura (2007:1266), \"the idea spread that a \"zhenren\" who had received the Heavenly Mandate (\"tianming\" 天命) would appear to renew the world.\" Emperor Guangwu of Han was called Baishui Zhenren 白水真人 \"True Person of the White Water\", and Cao Cao of the Kingdom of Wei was also called a \"zhenren\". The Records of the Grand Historian (ca. 100 BCE) may have a classical precedent for this meaning. It records that the \"First Emperor\" Qin Shi Huang (r. 221-210 BCE) was fascinated with \"xian\" immortality and decided to call himself \"zhenren\" rather than the homophonous Chinese honorific \"zhen\" 朕 \"(imperial) I, we\". The emperor summoned the Daoist practitioner Lu Sheng 盧生 who said, \"The \"zhenren\" enters water but does not get wet, enters fire but does not get burned, flies among the clouds, and has a length of life equal to that of Heaven and Earth\" (tr. Miura 2007:1265). The \"Taipingjing\" 太平經 \"Scripture of Great Peace\" (6th century CE) contrasts the \"zhenren\" who rules on earth with a \"shenren\" 神人 \"divine person\" who rules in heaven.\n\n\"Zhenren\" can mean \"honest person; well-behaved person\", nearly synonymous with \"zhenren\" 貞人 \"person of high moral standing and integrity\" and \"zhengren\" 正人 \"honest/loyal man; gentleman\". The earliest recorded example is the \"Book of Han\" (5th century CE) biography of Yang Yun 楊惲 (fl. 1st century BCE). This meaning is expressed in the idiom \"zhengren mian qian bu shuo jia\" 真人面前不說假 \"don't tell lies in front of a true/honest person\".\n\nAmong Traditional Chinese star names, \"Zhenren\" 真人is a literary reference to Gamma Ursae Majoris, near the Big Dipper.\n\nIn modern Chinese terms of human evolution, \"zhenren\" means \"true human\" as distinct from other primates.\n\nZhenren is a proper name of characters in Chinese folklore (e.g., Taiyi Zhenren), Chinese mythology (Cihang Zhenren), and Chinese literature (Luo Zhenren). Note that Japanese 真人 can be pronounced \"shinjin\" in the Daoist sense and Masato (e.g., Masato Shimon) or Mahito (Mahito Tsujimura) as a given name.\n\nGenerations of Western researchers have struggled with translating and explaining the Daoist technical expression \"zhenren\".\n\n\"Zhuangzi\" translators and scholars have variously rendered \"zhenren\" 真人.\nNote the diachronic improvements of these \"zhenren\" translations. In Chinese, \"ren\" 人 means \"person; people; human\" and not \"man\", which is \"nan\" 男 \"man; male\"\n\nAmes explains his rationale for translating \"zhenren\" as \"Authentic Person\".\nThe common translations of \"zhenren\" – \"True Man\" or \"Real Man\" – belies the fact that etymologically \"zhen\" implies both \"authenticity\" and \"transformation.\" That is, whatever the human exemplar might be, he or she is one who is able to express personal integrity and uniqueness in the context of a transforming world. The choice of \"authentic\" to translate \"zhen\" is calculated. With the same root as \"author,\" it captures the primacy given to the creative contribution of the particular person. It further registers this contribution as what is most fundamentally \"real\" and \"true.\"It is because of the primacy of the \"authorship\" of the \"authentic person\" in creating human order that \"there must be the Authentic Person before there can be authentic knowledge.\" (1998:2) \nCoyle prefers \"genuine\" over \"authentic\",\n\"Authentic person\" works well, conveying the idea of \"authorship,\" but it connotes an idea of \"human agency\" that Zhuangzi is trying to avoid. \"Genuine person\" seems to work best as it carries the least amount of \"philosophical\" baggage. Etymologically, \"genuine\" comes from the Latin \"genuinus\", \"natural,\" which is akin to \"gignere\", to beget (possibly an alteration of \"ingenuus\", native, or freeborn), and thus connotes a processionality necessary to any Zhuangzian interpretation. (1998:206) \nThere are semantic advantages to English translations of \"zhenren\" as a \"Person\" who is \"Perfected\", \"Realized\", or \"Genuine\". Another possibility is \"Actualized Person\" in the psychological sense of self actualization.\n\nMorgan provides an early description of the \"zhenren\".\n[T]he Perfect Man of the Taoist system, always acts in the spirit of \"wu wei\", of apparently doing nothing. He withdraws from the active arena of affairs and retires into seclusion and does not interfere in public agitations and turmoil; but, as we have already seen, their influence is very effective. The silence they observe carries out the Tao of \"wu wei\", which is of priceless value. But merely learned persons do not appreciate this method nor understand the value of the \"wu wei\" method: and they engage in purposeless discussions and the vanity of words. (1934:280) \nIn recent years, scholars of Daoism have been reevaluating the \"zhenren\" ideal. \n\nYearley (1983) characterizes the \"zhenren\" in terms of skepticism from a \"radical Zhuangzi\" framework, intraworldly mysticism, centered responsiveness, the \"mind as a mirror\" image, subtle detachment, and viewing life as an \"esthetic panorama.\"\n\nIzutsu (1984:448) says \"[T]he Perfect Man is in every respect a Perfect image of Heaven and Earth, i.e., the Way as it manifests itself as the world of Being\". He analyzes the \"zhenren\" in terms of \"unperturbedness\", flexibility, and \"wu wei\". \nSuch being his basic spiritual state, the Perfect Man perceives in the whole world nothing to disturb his cosmic balance of mind, although he does notice accurately all things that happen to him and to others. He does participate in the activities of the world together with all other men, yet at the same time, at the very core of his heart, he remains detached from the clamor and bustle of the world. Calmness and tranquility are the most salient features that characterize both the inside and outside of the Perfect Man. (1984:454) \n\nFox believes \"zhenren\" inspire us to immerse ourselves into the world and not to detach ourselves into the transcendental Dao.\nTherefore it can be said that the \"Zhuangzi\" describes the behavior and attitude of what we might call the \"perfectly well-adjusted person,\" someone who is perfectly at ease in all situations. It is not clear, however, if Zhuangzi thinks that everyone \"should\" be like this, or that everyone \"could\" be like this, or that \"anyone\" could be like this. To generalize in this fashion would itself be inconsistent with the nonformulaic personality of the text. Instead, the text simply presents us with strange and unsettling, though ultimately fascinating and compelling, stories that disturb our balance and force us to adjust. In this way, reading the text becomes a transformative project in itself. (2003:222) \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33415552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33415552", "title": "Éric Geoffroy", "text": "Éric Geoffroy\n\nÉric Geoffroy (Belfort, 1956) is a French philosopher, islamologist, writer and scholar in the Sufi studies teaching at the University of Strasbourg a long time \"alma mater\" to European orientalism. He is an affiliate of the Alawiya Sufi Brotherhood.\n\nA staunch critic of the notion of a Clash of Civilizations, which he transcends into a \"Dialogue of Traditions\" Eric Geoffroy argues that Islam's main dimension is pacific and spiritual. In the tradition of the Early French Sufi Studies and notably in the 19th and 20th century with Ivan Aguéli and René Guénon two French initiates to Sufism with a typically French cultural identity, Geoffroy notably studies the many influences of Sufism in the Western culture and the European Identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "44978276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44978276", "title": "Ḥiyal", "text": "Ḥiyal\n\nḤiyal (حيل, singular \"ḥīla\" حيلة \"contortion, contrivance; device, subterfuge\") is \"legalistic trickery\" in Islamic jurisprudence.\nThe main purpose of \"ḥiyal\" is to avoid straightforward observance of Islamic law in difficult situations while still obeying the letter of the law.\nAn example of \"hiyal\" is the practice of \"dual purchase\" (\"baiʿatān fī baiʿa\") to avoid the prohibition of usury by making two contracts of purchase and re-purchase (at a higher price), similar to the modern futures contract.\n\nThe earliest development of this field is the \"Kitāb al-maḫārij fī l-ḥiyal\" (\"book of evasion and trickery\") by Muhammad al-Shaybani (d. 805). A more comprehensive treatment is the \"Kitāb al-ḥiyal wa-l-maḫārij\"\nby Al-Ḫaṣṣāf (d. 870). \nThe study of \"ḥiyal\" was not uncontroversial in Islamic jurisprudence. It was at first classed as haram by the Shafiite school, although its great popularity eventually led to aspects of \"ḥiyal\" being recognized even in Shafiite treatises. By the 10th century, Shafiite authors wrote a number of \"ḥiyal\" treatises of their own, of which the work by al-Qazwini (died 1048) has survived, while others continued to denounce \"ḥiyal\", among them al-Ghazali.\nSince the 15th century, Shafiite opposition to \"ḥiyal\" had mostly disappeared, due to the fatwas by Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani outlawing its criticism.\n\nMeanwhile, \"ḥiyal\" was more vigorously opposed by the Hanbali school. Al-Bukhari dedicated an entire book in his \"Sahīh\" to the refutation of \"ḥiyal\" and Abū Yaʿlā, a Hanbali judge of the 11th-century Abbasid caliph Al-Qāʾim wrote a \"Kitāb Ibṭāl al-ḥiyal\" (\"book of invalidation of \"ḥiyal\"\").\nLike the Shafiites, the Hanbali school eventually came to a more moderate view of the practice. 14th-century Hanbali scholar Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya distinguished three types of \"ḥiyal\", (1) clearly inadmissible, (2) clearly admissible and (3) of doubtful admissibility, i.e. recognized by Abū Hanīfa but not by other authorities. 14th century Malaki scholar Al-Shatibi stated that al-hiyal are \"generally illegal\".\n\nDebate on \"ḥiyal\" within the establishment of Islamic jurisprudence continues into the modern period.\nIn 1974, a publication by Muhammad ʿAbd-al-Wahhāb Buhairī, Al-Azhar University professor for hadith and fiqh, published a monograph on the question \"Al-Ḥiyal fi š-šarīʿa al-islāmīya\" (\"trickery in Islamic law\"), according to which only a limited number of \"ḥiyal\" are permissible.\nAmong the \"ḥiyal\" permitted by Buhairī is \"taʿrīḍ\" (deception by ambiguity) if it is employed to prevent a Muslim from coming to harm. \nSince the 1980s, there has been a trend of increased debate on the \"purposes of sharia\" (\"Maqāṣid aš-šarīʿa\") \nin the context of which a number of scholars have argued for a revival of \"ḥiyal\" as a legitimate tool to improve the flexibility of sharia interpretation in view of the problem of Islam and modernity.\nThe nascent Islamic finance industry has also made invoked \"ḥiyal\" to defend its practices.\n\nprimary sources (Ḥiyal literature in Islamic jurisprudence)\n\nsecondary literature\n\n"}
