{"id": "6159580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6159580", "title": "1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane", "text": "1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane\n\n1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane, (dibromochloropropane) better known as DBCP, is the active ingredient in the nematicide Nemagon, also known as Fumazone.\n\nIt is a soil fumigant formerly used in American agriculture. In mammals it causes male sterility at high levels of exposure. After discovery of its deleterious health effects on humans, the compound was banned from use in 1979 by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The continuing presence of the chemical as a contaminant in ground water remains a problem for many communities for years after end of use.\n\n\n\nDBCP residues have persisted in contaminated soil and groundwater long after applications have ceased. For example, in agricultural areas around Turlock in the Central Valley of California, DBCP was applied to crops in the 1970s. As late as 1989, DBCP persistence was reported in groundwater that was previously used for beneficial purposes, and numerous nearby wells had to be shut down at that time.\n\nWorkers at the Dow Chemical plant producing DBCP were made sterile by exposure to DBCP. These male reproductive effects were consistent with animal experiments showing that DBCP sterilizes rabbits. One contract worker at the production plant successfully sued the company. Most workers remained with the company and in a company sponsored medical program until the facility was sold in 1987. At that time, some of the workers did file suit against the company. However, the suit was denied due to statute of limitations issues.\n\nMost domestic uses of the chemical were banned in 1977. Amid growing concerns over DBCP's effects on male workers, Dow ceased production and reclaimed DBCP that had been shipped to its users.\n\nHowever, despite warnings from Dow about its health effects, the Dole Food Company, which was using the chemical on its banana plantations in Latin America, threatened to sue Dow if it stopped DBCP shipments. Dow then shipped half a million gallons of DBCP to Dole, much of it reclaimed from other users. Plantation workers who became sterile or were stricken with other maladies subsequently sued Dow and Dole in Nicaraguan courts, alleging that their ailments were caused by DBCP exposure. Under a special law that was passed specifically for DBCP litigation, the Nicaraguan courts ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and awarded them over US$600 million in damages. When plaintiff lawyers tried to enforce one of those judgments in the United States, the U.S. District Court in Florida held that \"the credible and unrefuted medical testimony in this case is that it is factually impossible for what is represented in the Judgment to have occurred,\" and that due process \"do[es] not permit awarding damages in the face of clear scientific evidence of the absence of causation,\" or, as in this case, \"with proof that [the defendants] are not at fault.\" A group of workers then filed lawsuits in the United States, and on November 5, 2007, a Los Angeles jury awarded them US$3.2 million. On July 15, 2010, that judgment was thrown out after the Court presiding over the case found that the claims were part of \"a massive fraud perpetrated on the court\". On April 23, 2009, a Los Angeles judge also threw out two similar cases against Dole and Dow Chemical due to fraud and extortion by lawyers in Nicaragua recruiting fraudulent plaintiffs to make claims against the company. The ruling casts doubt on US$2 billion in judgments in similar lawsuits.\n\nWorkers in Côte d'Ivoire, using the Alien Tort Claims Act, and claiming sterility, crimes against humanity, and genocide, sued (in \"Abagninin v. AMVAC Chemical Corp.\" [No. 07-56326]), these manufacturers of DBCP: Amvac Chemical, Dow Chemical, Shell Oil Company, as well as Dole Food Company, who used it on overseas crops, but never used it in Côte d'Ivoire. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled against the workers in September 2008, stating that the plaintiffs did not show that the defendants had \"specific intent\" to intend harm against the workers and the citizens of the country. To be found guilty of genocide the defendant must have knowingly set out to commit the offense.\n\nDBCP causes a dramatic decrease in male fertility, ranging from oligospermia (low sperm count) to azoospermia (lack of sperm).\n\n"}
{"id": "22618039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22618039", "title": "1989 Chilean grape scare", "text": "1989 Chilean grape scare\n\nThe Chilean grape scare was a 1989 incident involving two grapes from Chile allegedly found tainted with cyanide after a threat was supposedly made by phone to the US Embassy in Santiago. No additional contaminated fruit was found, but the United States Food and Drug Administration banned the import of Chilean fruit and warned people not to eat grapes or Chilean fruit despite the fact investigators found no traces of cyanide in any other fruit shipped from Chile to Philadelphia.\n\nThe individual who supposedly telephoned the U.S. embassy in Santiago on March 2 told them some Chilean grapes contained cyanide. No individual or group ever claimed responsibility for poisoning the two grapes or making the phone call. Just two grapes were said to have been injected with cyanide and the country's fruit export sector was thrown into panic. Thousands of farm workers lost their jobs and the Government was forced to provide temporary subsidies to offset the more than $400 million in losses.\n\nBecause cyanide is highly reactive and the fact that a punctured grape decomposes rapidly, it is not possible for a grape to be injected with cyanide (or anything else for that matter) and arrive in the U.S. intact, two to three weeks later. This fact led the GAO (General Accounting Office) to investigate to determine whether the scare was a result of poor laboratory processes. The investigation was inconclusive.\n\n"}
{"id": "6934934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6934934", "title": "Acedia", "text": "Acedia\n\nAcedia (; also accidie or accedie , from Latin \"acedĭa\", and this from Greek ἀκηδία, \"negligence\", ἀ- \"lack of\" -κηδία \"care\") is a state of listlessness or torpor, of not caring or not being concerned with one's position or condition in the world. It can lead to a state of being unable to perform one's duties in life. Its spiritual overtones make it related to but arguably distinct from depression. Acedia was originally noted as a problem among monks and other ascetics who maintained a solitary life.\n\nThe \"Oxford Concise Dictionary of the Christian Church\" defines acedia (or accidie) as \"a state of restlessness and inability either to work or to pray\". Some see it as the precursor to sloth—one of the seven deadly sins. In his sustained analysis of the vice in Q. 35 of the \"Second Part (Secunda Secundae)\" of his \"Summa Theologica\", the 13th-century theologian Thomas Aquinas identifies acedia with \"the sorrow of the world\" (compare \"Weltschmerz\") that \"worketh death\" and contrasts it with that sorrow \"according to God\" described by St. Paul in 2 Cor. 7:10. For Aquinas, acedia is \"sorrow about spiritual good in as much as it is a Divine good.\" It becomes a mortal sin when reason consents to man's \"flight\" (\"fuga\") from the Divine good, \"on account of the flesh utterly prevailing over the spirit.\" Acedia is essentially a flight from the divine that leads to not even caring that one does not care. The ultimate expression of this is a despair that ends in suicide.\n\nAquinas's teaching on acedia in Q. 35 contrasts with his prior teaching on charity's gifted \"spiritual joy\", to which acedia is directly opposed, and which he explores in Q. 28 of the \"Secunda Secundae\". As Aquinas says, \"One opposite is known through the other, as darkness through light. Hence also what evil is must be known from the nature of good.\"\n\nMoral theologians, intellectual historians and cultural critics have variously construed acedia as the ancient depiction of a variety of psychological states, behaviors or existential conditions: primarily laziness, apathy, ennui or boredom.\n\nThe demon of acedia holds an important place in early monastic demonology and proto-psychology. In the late fourth century Evagrius of Pontus, for example, characterizes it as \"the most troublesome of all\" of the eight genera of evil thoughts. As with those who followed him, Evagrius sees acedia as a temptation, and the great danger lies in giving in to it. Evagrius' contemporary, the Desert Father John Cassian, depicted the apathetic restlessness of \"acedia\", \"the noonday demon\", in the coenobitic monk:\n\nHe looks about anxiously this way and that, and sighs that none of the brethren come to see him, and often goes in and out of his cell, and frequently gazes up at the sun, as if it was too slow in setting, and so a kind of unreasonable confusion of mind takes possession of him like some foul darkness.\n\nIn the medieval Latin tradition of the seven deadly sins, acedia has generally been folded into the sin of sloth. The Benedictine Rule directed that a monk displaying the outward signs of \"acedia\" \n\"should be reproved a first and a second time. If he does not amend he must be subjected to the punishment of the rule so that the others may have fear.\n\nAcedia is indicated by a range of signs. These signs (or symptoms) are typically divided into two basic categories: somatic and psychological. Acedia frequently presents signs somatically. Such bodily symptoms range from mere sleepiness to general sickness or debility, along with a host of more specific symptoms: weakness in the knees, pain in the limbs, and fever. An anecdote attributed to the Desert Mother Amma Theodora also connects somatic pain and illness with the onset of acedia. A host of psychological symptoms can also signify the presence of acedia, which affects the mental state and behavior of the afflicted. Some commonly reported psychological signs revolve around a lack of attention to daily tasks and an overall dissatisfaction with life. The best-known of the psychological signs of acedia is tedium, boredom or general laziness. Author Kathleen Norris in her book \"Acedia and Me\" asserts that dictionary definitions such as torpor and sloth fail to do justice to this \"temptation\"; she believes a state of restlessness, of not living in the present and seeing the future as overwhelming is more accurate a definition than straight laziness: it is especially present in monasteries, due to the cutting off of distractions, but can invade any vocation where the labor is long, the rewards slow to appear, such as scientific research, long term marriages, etc. Another sign is a lack of caring, of being unfeeling about things, whether that be your appearance, hygiene, your relationships, your community's welfare, the world's welfare etc.; all of this, Norris relates, is connected to the hopelessness and vague unease that arises from having too many choices, lacking true commitment, of being \"a slave from within\". She relates this to forgetfulness about \"the one thing needful\": remembrance of God.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1770434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1770434", "title": "Alfredo Palacio", "text": "Alfredo Palacio\n\nLuis Alfredo Palacio González (born January 22, 1939) is an Ecuadorian cardiologist and former politician who served as President of Ecuador from April 20, 2005 to January 15, 2007. From January 15, 2003 to April 20, 2005, he served as vice president, after which he was appointed to the presidency when the Ecuadorian Congress removed President Lucio Gutiérrez from power following a week of growing unrest with his government.\n\nBorn in Guayaquil, Palacio is a physician by profession, specializing in cardiology. He studied in his home town and, later, at Cleveland, Ohio, doing residency at Case Western Reserve University, followed by a two-year cardiology fellowship at Barnes-Jewish Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri, in the United States. He later lectured in cardiology and public health at the University of Guayaquil's faculty of medicine.\n\nPalacio was chosen as Lucio Gutiérrez's running mate in the 2002 election. It was a common sight during the campaign to see Gutiérrez, dressed in his army fatigues, accompanied by Palacio, wearing surgical scrubs. Palacio had previously served as the minister for health during the administration of Sixto Durán Ballén. Many of the ministers he chose were from the Democratic Left (Ecuador).\n\nOne of Palacio's first proposals made as president was to hold a Constitutional Assembly to amend Ecuador's 1998 Constitution. For a period of several months prior to assuming office, he had been a critic of the Gutiérrez regime, saying that the country was \"falling apart\" and in need of \"intensive care\".\n\nRafael Correa was elected president in November 2006 and replaced Palacio as president on January 15, 2007.\n\nPalacio was one of the candidates for the position of director-general of the World Health Organization, to be decided in a vote on November 9, 2006. However, on October 18, 2006, he announced he would not be pursuing the position, preferring to concentrate on his presidency until the very last day of his mandate. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31293932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31293932", "title": "American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry", "text": "American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry\n\nThe American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit professional association in the United States dedicated to facilitating psychiatric care for children and adolescents. The Academy is headquartered in Washington, D.C. Various levels of membership are available to physicians specialized in child psychiatry or pediatrics, as well as medical students interested in the field, in the United States and abroad.\n\nEstablished in 1953 as the American Academy of Child Psychiatry (AACP), it became the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) in 1989.\n\nThe Academy's official mission, adopted in 1994 with later emendations, is to \"Promote the healthy development of children, adolescents, and families through research, training, prevention, comprehensive diagnosis and treatment and to meet the professional needs of child and adolescent psychiatrists throughout their careers.\"\n\nSince 1962, the AACAP has published its monthly journal, \"Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry\" (\"JAACAP\"). There have been concerns about industry-sponsored clinical trials published in the journal. \"JAACAP\" editors have repeatedly declined to retract the journal's 2001 article on study 329, a clinical trial examining paroxetine and teenagers. The trial was sponsored by, and ghostwritten on behalf of, SmithKline Beecham (now GlaxoSmithKline), and is widely regarded as having downplayed the trial's negative results.\n\n"}
{"id": "53782753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53782753", "title": "Behavior change (individual)", "text": "Behavior change (individual)\n\nA behavioral change can be a temporary or permanent effect that is considered a change in an individual's behavior when compared to previous behavior. It is often considered a mental disorder. This change is generally characterized by abnormal thinking, interpretations, emotions, or changing relationships. Medications can cause this change as a side effect. The interaction between physiological processes and their effect on individual behavior is the basis of psychophysiology.\n\nIn many cases, a person can exhibit behaviors that are harmful. Behavior modification is one method used to correct harmful behaviors. Cognitive behavioral therapy can be used in the effort to change the behavior of an individual. It requires the willing participation of the individual being counseled to be effective.\nTraining of counselors and their interventions can increase the likelihood of behavioral changes in those they counsel.\n\nIn some instances, the reaction to a medication is an expected effect. In other instances, a behavior change may indicate that the dosage of medication is at a toxic level, or is an indication of hypersensitivity to the medication. Geriatric patients are more susceptible to these effects.\n"}
{"id": "19930786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19930786", "title": "Berne Convention (1906)", "text": "Berne Convention (1906)\n\nThe Berne Convention (formally, the International Convention respecting the Prohibition of the Use of White (Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Matches ()) of 1906 is a multilateral treaty negotiated in Berne, Switzerland, which prohibits the use of white phosphorus in the manufacture of matches. The treaty also prohibits the import and sale of such matches.\n\nThe background to the treaty was the extensive medical problems such as phossy jaw facing workers in match production. The treaty was concluded on 26 September 1906. It entered into force on 1 January 1912. The Convention remains in force for 48 states. Switzerland is the depositary for the treaty.\n\nIn 1925 Edward J. Phelan, future Director General of the International Labour Organization, stated that the establishment of the ILO \"may in one sense be traced to the Berne Convention of 1906\", partly as a result of lobbying by the International Association for Labour Legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158799", "title": "Choline", "text": "Choline\n\nCholine is a water-soluble vitamin-like essential nutrient. It is a constituent of lecithin, which is present in many plants and animal organs. The term \"cholines\" refers to the class of quaternary ammonium salts containing the \"N\",\"N\",\"N\"-trimethylethanolammonium cation (X on the right denotes an undefined counteranion).\n\nThe cation appears in the head groups of phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin, two classes of phospholipid that are abundant in cell membranes. Choline is the precursor for the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, which is involved in many functions including memory and muscle control.\n\nCholine was first isolated by Adolph Strecker from pig and ox bile (Greek: χολή, \"chole\") in 1862. When it was first chemically synthesized by Oscar Liebreich in 1865, it was known as neurine. In 1898 neurine was shown to be chemically identical to choline. In 1998, choline was classified as an essential nutrient by the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine.\n\nCholine and its metabolites serve three purposes: structural integrity and signaling roles for cell membranes, cholinergic neurotransmission (acetylcholine synthesis), and a source for methyl groups via its metabolite, trimethylglycine (betaine), which participates in the biosynthesis of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM).\n\nSome animals cannot produce choline, but must consume it through their diet to remain healthy. Humans make a small amount of choline in the liver. In the United States, choline is recommended as an essential nutrient. Possible benefits include reducing the risk of neural tube defects and fatty liver disease. It has also been found that intake of choline during pregnancy can have long-term beneficial effects on memory for the child.\n\nCholine deficiency is rare in the general population. The European Food Safety Authority states there are no Recommended Daily Intakes in the EU and \"no indications of inadequate choline intakes available in the EU\".\n\nThe following are choline values for a selection of foods in quantities that people may consume in a day.\n\nBesides cauliflower, other cruciferous vegetables may also be good sources of choline.\n\nThe USDA Nutrients Database has choline content for many foods.\n\nThe Australian, New Zealand, and European Union national nutrition bodies note there have been no reports of choline deficiency in the general population. The USA joins these three in not publishing a Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA), due to lack of consensus evidence. They have, however, published Adequate Intake (AI) values. The US Institute of Medicine (IOM) notes that these figures are based on just one study and that there was little data and the choline made by the body (assuming a dietary intake of zero) may be enough for some groups. Australia, New Zealand and Canada use the figures published by the US IOM. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) published its own Adequate Intake values, most recently in 2016. For U.S. dietary supplement labeling purposes the amount in a serving is expressed as a percent of Daily Value (%DV) based on the AI. For choline, as shown in Reference Daily Intake, 100% of the Daily Value is 550 mg.\n\nStudies on a number of populations have found that the average intake of choline was below the Adequate Intake. In the United States, a recently published government survey on food consumption reported that for men and women ages 20 and older the average choline intakes were, respectively, 402 and 278 mg/day. For post-menopausal women, 280 mg/day\n\nCholine deficiency may play a role in liver disease, atherosclerosis, and possibly neurological disorders. One sign of choline deficiency is an elevated level of the liver enzyme ALT. If low choline intake causes an elevated homocysteine level, it raises the risk for preeclampsia, premature birth, and very low birth weight.\n\nInvolvement of choline in long-term health and development of clinical disorders, such as cardiovascular diseases, cognitive decline in aging and regulation of blood lipid levels, has not been well-defined.\n\nThe US Food and Drug Administration requires that infant formula not made from cow's milk be supplemented with choline. Choline-providing dietary supplement ingredients include: choline chloride, choline bitartrate, citicoline (CDP-choline), L-alpha-glycerophosphocholine (Alpha-GPC), lecithin, phosphatidylcholine.\n\nThe human body can produce choline by methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine by N-methyltranferase (PEMT) to form phosphatidylcholine in the liver, or it may be consumed from the diet. It has been demonstrated that both \"de novo\" production and dietary consumption are necessary, as humans eating diets lacking choline develop fatty liver, liver damage, and muscle damage. However, because of the close interplay between choline, folate, methionine, and vitamin B, (whose pathways overlap), the function of choline can be complex.\n\nTo begin with, methionine can be formed two ways, either from methyl groups derived from folate, or from methyl groups derived from betaine (which gets its methyl groups from choline). Changes in one of these pathways is compensated for by the other, and if these pathways do not adequately supply methyl groups to produce methionine, the precursor to methionine, homocysteine, rises.\n\nCholine in food exists in either a free or esterified form (choline bound within another compound, such as phosphatidylcholine, through an ester linkage). Although all forms are most likely usable, some evidence indicates they are unequally bioavailable (able to be used by the body). Lipid-soluble forms (such as phosphatidylcholine) bypass the liver once absorbed, while water-soluble forms (such as free choline) enter the liver portal circulation and are generally absorbed by the liver. Both pregnancy and lactation increase demand for choline dramatically. This demand may be met by upregulation of PEMT via increasing estrogen levels to produce more choline \"de novo\", but even with increased PEMT activity, the demand for choline is still so high that bodily stores are generally depleted. This is exemplified by the observation that \"Pemt -/-\" mice (mice lacking functional PEMT) will abort at 9–10 days unless fed supplemental choline.\n\nWhile maternal stores of choline are depleted during pregnancy and lactation, the placenta accumulates choline by pumping choline against the concentration gradient into the tissue, where it is then stored in various forms, mostly as acetylcholine, (an uncommon occurrence outside of neural tissue). The fetus itself is exposed to a very high choline environment as a result, and choline concentrations in amniotic fluid can be ten times higher than in maternal blood. This high concentration is assumed to allow choline to be abundantly available to tissues and cross the blood-brain barrier effectively.\n\nCholine is in high demand during pregnancy as a substrate for building cellular membranes, (rapid fetal and mother tissue expansion), increased need for one-carbon moieties (a substrate for addition of methylation to DNA and other functions), raising choline stores in fetal and placental tissues, and for increased production of lipoproteins (proteins containing \"fat\" portions). In particular, there is interest in the impact of choline consumption on the brain. This stems from choline's use as a material for making cellular membranes, (particularly in making phosphatidylcholine). Human brain growth is most rapid during the third trimester of pregnancy and continues to be rapid to approximately five years of age. During this time, the demand is high for sphingomyelin, which is made from phosphatidyl choline (and thus from choline), because this material is used to myelinate (insulate) nerve fibers. Choline is also in demand for the production of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, which can influence the structure and organization of brain regions, neurogenesis, myelination, and synapse formation. Acetylcholine is even present in the placenta and may help control cell proliferation/differentiation (increases in cell number and changes of multiuse cells into dedicated cellular functions) and parturition.\n\nCholine uptake into the brain is controlled by a low-affinity transporter located at the blood-brain barrier. Transport occurs when arterial plasma choline concentrations increase above 14 μmol/l, which can occur during a spike in choline concentration after consuming choline-rich foods. Neurons, conversely, acquire choline by both high- and low-affinity transporters. Choline is stored as membrane-bound phosphatidylcholine, which can then be used for acetylcholine neurotransmitter synthesis later. Acetylcholine is formed as needed, travels across the synapse, and transmits the signal to the following neuron. Afterwards, acetylcholinesterase degrades it, and the free choline is taken up by a high-affinity transporter into the neuron again.\n\nWhile folate is most well known for preventing neural tube nonclosure (the basis for its addition to prenatal vitamins), folate and choline metabolism are interrelated. Both choline and folate (with the help of vitamin B) can act as methyl donors to homocysteine to form methionine, which can then go on to form SAM (S-Adenosyl methionine) and act as a methyl donor for methylation of DNA. Dietary choline deficiency alone without concurrent folate deficiency can decrease SAM concentration, suggesting that both folate and choline are important sources of methyl groups for SAM production. Inhibition of choline absorption and use is associated with neural-tube defects in mice, and this may also occur in humans. A retrospective case control study (a study that collects data after the fact, from cases occurring without the investigator causing them to occur) of 400 cases and 400 controls indicated that women with the lowest daily choline intake had a four-fold greater risk of having a child with a neural-tube defect than women in the highest quartile of intake.\n\nIn humans, the brain continues to develop after birth, and does not become similar to its adult structure until around four years of age. By feeding infants formula instead of milk, and presumably through differences in choline amount in the breast milk of mothers consuming different choline levels, the still-developing brain of an infant may be impacted, which may, in part, contribute to the differences seen between individual adult humans in memory and recall.\n\nThe human mammary gland is composed of several cell types, including adipose (fat cells), muscle, ductal epithelium, and mammary epithelium (referred to sometimes as lactocytes). The mammary epithelium is the site for excretion of raw materials into the milk supply, including choline. This occurs, for the fat portion of the milk, by apocrine secretion, where vacuoles containing materials bud off the cell into the lumen (storage) of the alveolus (milk secretion gland). From here the milk will be released upon stimulation with oxytocin via suckling.\n\nCholine can be found in milk as free choline, phosphocholine, glycerophosphocholine, sphingomyelin, and phosphatidylcholine, and choline levels within breast milk are correlated with choline levels in maternal blood. Choline consumed via breast milk has been shown to impact blood levels of choline in breast-fed infants – indicating that choline consumed in breast milk is entering the neonatal system. Choline may enter the milk supply either directly from the maternal blood supply, or choline-containing nutrients may be produced within the mammary epithelium. Choline reaches the milk through a transporter specific for choline from the maternal blood supply (against a concentration gradient) into the mammary epithelial cells. At high concentrations (greater than that typically seen in humans), choline can diffuse across the cell membrane into the mammary epithelium cell. At more normal concentrations, it passes via what is believed to be a calcium/sodium-dependent, phosphorylation-related, active transporter into the cell.\n\nHuman milk is rich in choline, but formulas derived from other sources, particularly soy, have lower total choline concentrations than human milk. Bovine milk and bovine-derived formulas had similar or higher glycerophosphocholine compared to human milk, and soy-derived formulas had lower glycerophosphocholine content. Phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin concentrations were similar between bovine formulas and human milk, but soy-derived infant formulas had more phosphatidylcholine than human or bovine sources. Soy-derived formulas had less sphingomyelin than human milk, which is a concern, since sphingomyelin is used for producing myelin, which insulates neurons. Free choline concentrations in mature human milk were 30–80% lower than those found in bovine milk or formulas. Mature human milk also has lower free choline than colostrum-transitional human milk. Phosphocholine is particularly abundant in human milk.\n\nCholine is a precursor to trimethylamine, which persons suffering from trimethylaminuria are unable to break down. Persons with this disorder may suffer from a strong fishy or otherwise unpleasant body odor, due to the body's release of odorous trimethylamine. A body odor will occur even on a normal diet \"i.e.\", one that is not particularly high in choline. Persons with trimethylaminuria are advised to restrict the intake of foods high in choline; this may help to reduce the sufferer's body odor.\nCholine can be obtained with a variety of counterion. Choline chloride is a major nutritional supplement for example. The salicylate salt of choline is used topically for pain relief of aphthous ulcers.\n\nCholine hydroxide is a phase transfer catalysts for hydroxide. It is used for stripping photoresists in circuit boards. Choline hydroxide slowly degrades into trimethylamine. The tartrate is also known.\n\n"}
{"id": "12218108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12218108", "title": "CommNet", "text": "CommNet\n\nCommNet is an informal network of communications managers from European Union-funded research projects. It focuses on food quality and safety.\n\nCommNet was established in early 2005 based on an initiative from the Network of Excellence CASCADE. It is an informal network and started with Communicators from about 15 different Integrated Projects and Networks of Excellence. Later, more projects have been added, and the network now counts more than 20 Framework Programme 6 projects supported by the European Commission Directorate General for Research’s Food Quality and Safety Programme.\n\n\nAbout 3000 scientists are fully or partly engaged in the consortia forming the CommNet. The members of CommNet address common issues related to the design and implementation of communication activities within European Union’s funded projects in the health and food sector.\n\nCommNet members are responsible for managing communication of EU food and health research with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), authorities, and other policy-makers that are stakeholders in Community research, European Commission officials, science journalists, especially those with special interest in the biosciences, ongoing FP6 consortia, newly FP6 research consortia, planned European Union Framework Programme 7 (FP7) research consortia and other groups interested in the management of science–society issues or communication of the biosciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4706881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4706881", "title": "Creme Puff (cat)", "text": "Creme Puff (cat)\n\nCreme Puff (August 3, 1967 – August 6, 2005) was a domestic cat, owned by Jake Perry of Austin, Texas. She was the oldest cat ever recorded, according to the 2010 edition of \"Guinness World Records\",\nwhen she died aged 38 years and 3 days. Perry had another cat, Granpa, who was claimed to have been born in Paris in 1964 and died in 1998, aged 34 years and 2 months. Granpa was posthumously awarded 1999 Cat of the Year by \"Cats & Kittens\" magazine. Granpa was featured in an earlier edition of \"Guinness World Records\". The co-authors of at least one book have pondered whether the longevity of Perry's cats may have had something to do with an unusual diet of, among other things, bacon and eggs, asparagus, broccoli, and coffee with heavy cream, concluding that Perry \"must be doing something right.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37268189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37268189", "title": "Descending perineum syndrome", "text": "Descending perineum syndrome\n\nDescending perineum syndrome (also known as levator plate sagging) refers to a condition where the perineum \"balloons\" several centimeters below the bony outlet of the pelvis during strain, although this descent may happen without straining. The syndrome was first described in 1966 by Parks \"et al\".\n\nAbnormal descent of the perineum may be asymptomatic, but otherwise the following may feature:\n\n\nOther researchers concluded that abnormal perineal descent did not correlate with constipation or perineal pain, and there are also conflicting reports of the correlation of fecal incontinence with this condition.\n\nOne of the main causes is suggested to be excessive and repetitive straining during defecation. Other causes include weakness of the pelvic floor muscles (secondary to age-related neuropathic degeneration or traumatic injury during pregnancy and labor.\n\nDiagnosis is by rectal examination. A specialized tool called a \"Perineocaliper\" can be used to measure the descent of the perineum. A retro anal ultrasound scan may demonstrate the condition. \"Anti sagging tests\", whereby the abnormal descent is corrected temporarily, may help to show whether symptoms are due to descending perineum syndrome or are in fact due to another condition.\n\nNormally, the anal margin lies just below a line drawn between the coccyx (tailbone) and the pubic symphysis. In descending perineum syndrome the anal canal is situated several cm below this imaginary line, or it descends 3–4 cm during straining.\n\nDefecography may also demonstrate abnormal perineal descent.\n\nSurgical treatments may be used to treat the condition, and include retro-rectal levatorplasty, post-anal repair, retro-anal levator plate myorrhaphy.\nThe condition mainly occurs in women, and it is thought by some to be one of the main defects encountered problem in perineology.\n"}
{"id": "22232605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22232605", "title": "Durham-Humphrey Amendment", "text": "Durham-Humphrey Amendment\n\nThe Durham-Humphrey Amendment explicitly defined two specific categories for medications, legend (prescription) and over-the-counter (OTC). This amendment was co-sponsored by then Senator (and later Vice President) Hubert H. Humphrey Jr., who was a pharmacist in South Dakota before beginning his political career. The other sponsor of this amendment was Carl Durham, a pharmacist representing North Carolina in the House of Representatives.\n\nThe bill requires any drug that is habit-forming or potentially harmful to be dispensed under the supervision of a health practitioner as a prescription drug and must carry the statement, \"Caution: Federal law prohibits dispensing without a prescription.\" \n\nUntil this law, there was no requirement that any drug be labeled for sale by prescription only. The amendment defined prescription drugs as those unsafe for self-medication and which should therefore be used only under a doctor's supervision.\n\nLegend drugs must be dispensed with direct medical supervision, but over-the-counter drugs can be purchased and used without a prescription.\n\nThe law also legalized verbal transmission of prescriptions and provided for the legal right of a pharmacist to refill prescriptions as indicated in a provider's initial prescription.\n\n"}
{"id": "9218826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9218826", "title": "Easterlin paradox", "text": "Easterlin paradox\n\nThe Easterlin Paradox is a finding in happiness economics formulated in 1974 by Richard Easterlin, then professor of economics at the University of Pennsylvania, and the first economist to study happiness data. The Paradox states that at a point in time happiness varies directly with income both among and within nations, but over time happiness does not trend upward as income continues to grow. It is the contradiction between the point-of-time and time series findings that is the root of the Paradox. Various theories have been advanced to explain the Paradox, but the Paradox itself is solely an empirical generalization.\n\nThe original evidence for the Paradox was United States data. Subsequently, supporting findings were given for other developed nations, and, more recently for less developed countries and countries transitioning from socialism to capitalism. The original conclusion for the United States was based on data from 1946 to 1970; later evidence through 2014 confirmed the initial finding—the trend in United States happiness has been flat or even slightly negative over a roughly seven decades stretch in which real incomes more than tripled.\n\nThe time series conclusion of the Paradox refers to long term trends. As the economy expands and contracts, fluctuations in happiness occur together with those in income , but the fluctuations in income occur around a rising trend line, whereas those in happiness take place around a horizontal trend line. The Paradox refers, not to the fluctuations, but to the absence of a synchronous relation between the trends. \n\nObjections to the Paradox focus on the time series generalization, that trends in happiness and income are not related. In a 2008 article economists Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers state that “the core of the Easterlin paradox lies in Easterlin’s failure to isolate statistically significant relationships between average levels of happiness and economic growth through time,” and present time series evidence of a significant positive statistical association between happiness and income. A 2012 article by the same authors and Daniel Sacks returns to this time series criticism with new data, though at times the article asserts that the Paradox is a contradiction between two types of cross section evidence -- data for persons and for countries. Outside of economics, two founding fathers in the study of self-reported happiness, Ed Diener in psychology, and Ruut Veenhoven in sociology, have each, with their collaborators, also presented evidence of a significantly positive time series relationship. A rebuttal by Easterlin points out that these studies do not focus on identifying long term trends; rather, they are based on time series that are short or have only two observations –in both cases insufficient observations to establish a trend. The positive association they present is that between the fluctuations in happiness and income, not the trends. \n\nIt is sometimes said that the flattening of the happiness trend occurs after some minimum level of income. No time series evidence has been advanced to support this claim, and time series for China and Japan, both of which start from low income levels, give no indication of a threshold. \n\n\nClark, A., P. Frijters, and M. Shields (2008). “Relative Income, Happiness, and Utility: An Explanation for the Easterlin Paradox and Other Puzzles,” Journal of Economic Literature: 46(1), 95-144.\n\nBeja, E. (2014). “Income Growth and Happiness: Reassessment of the Easterlin Paradox,” International Review of Economics: 61 (4), 329-346.\n\nDeNeve, J., D. Ward, G. Keulenaer, B. van Landeghem, G. Kavetsos, and M. Norton (2018). “The Asymmetric Experience of Positive and Negative Economic Growth: Global Evidence Using Subjective Well-Being Data,” Review of Economic Statistics: 100 (2), 362-375.\n\n"}
{"id": "5075621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075621", "title": "Fat tax", "text": "Fat tax\n\nA fat tax is a tax or surcharge that is placed upon fattening food, beverages or on overweight individuals. It is considered an example of Pigovian taxation. A fat tax aims to discourage unhealthy diets and offset the economic costs of obesity.\n\nA fat tax aims to decrease the consumption of foods that are linked to obesity. A related idea is to tax foods that are linked to increased risk of coronary heart disease. Numerous studies suggest that as the price of a food decreases, individuals get fatter. In fact, eating behavior may be more responsive to price increases than to nutritional education. Estimates suggest that a 1 cent per ounce tax on sugar-sweetened beverages may reduce the consumption of those beverages by 25%. However, there is also evidence that obese individuals are less responsive to changes in the price of food than normal-weight individuals.\n\nTo implement a fat tax, it is necessary to specify which food and beverage products will be targeted. This must be done with care, because a carelessly chosen food tax can have surprising and perverse effects. For instance, consumption patterns suggest that taxing saturated fat would induce consumers to increase their salt intake, thereby putting themselves at greater risk for cardiovascular death. Taxation of sodium has been proposed as a way of reducing salt intake and resulting health problems. Current proposals frequently single out sugar-sweetened drinks as a target for taxation. Cross-sectional, prospective, and experimental studies have found an association between obesity and the consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks. However, experimental studies have not always found an association, and the size of the effect can be very modest.\n\nSince the poor spend a greater proportion of their income on food, a fat tax might be regressive. Taxing foods that provide primarily calories, with little other nutritional value reduces this problem, since calories are readily available from many sources in diet of industrialized nations. To make a fat tax less burdensome for the poor, proponents recommend earmarking the revenues to subsidize healthy foods and health education. Additionally, proponents have argued that the fat tax is less regressive to the extent that it lowers medical expenditures and expenditures on the targeted foods among the poor. Indeed, there is a higher incidence of diet-related illnesses among the poor than in the general population.\n\nUnlike placing restrictions on foods or ingredients, a fat tax would not limit consumer choice, only change relative prices.\n\nPublic health practitioners and scholars in a range of different countries have called for a fat tax on unhealthy foods. The reasoning behind implementing a fat tax is the hope that people will avoid risky dietary behaviours, improving health outcomes in society. Research indicates that the current obesity epidemic is increasing as a result of the fast food industry expanding. Junk food outlets are changing the dietary habits of society, pushing out traditional restaurants and leading to the detrimental health effects of obesity, diabetes and heart disease. Taxes on tobacco have seen smoking rates decrease, and as a result there have been calls for fat taxes to be implemented in more countries in an attempt to reduce the consumption of unhealthy foods.\n\nIn 1942, U.S. physiologist A. J. Carlson suggested levying a fee on each pound of overweight, both to counter an \"injurious luxury\" and to make more food available for the war effort. The concept was reintroduced by Milton Merryweather and P. Franklin Alexander in the late 1970s, but became well known in the early 1980s by Kelly D. Brownell, director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale. Brownell proposed that revenue from junk food taxes be used to subsidize more healthful foods and fund nutrition campaigns.\n\nIn a 1994 Op-Ed in \"The New York Times\", Brownell noted that food costs were out of balance, with healthy foods costing more than unhealthy ones. The New York Times Op-Ed piece that proposed the \"fat tax\" elicited controversy and outrage nationwide. Author Kelly Brownell became the focal point of this controversy, especially from Rush Limbaugh, who spoke out adamantly against the tax and the general principle of governmental intrusion into food choices and a possible invasion of privacy. Brownell’s proposal was listed as number seven on the list of U.S. News & World Report's \"16 Smart Ideas to Fix the World.\" Because of this and other work, Brownell was named by Time Magazine as one of the \"World's Most Influential People.\" In 2000 a paper in the British Medical Journal outlined the potential impact on deaths from ischemic heart disease of a tax on the main sources of saturated fats.\nIn December 2003, The World Health Organization proposed that nations consider taxing junk foods to encourage people to make healthier food choices. According to the WHO report, \"Several countries use fiscal measures to promote availability of and access to certain foods; others use taxes to increase or decrease consumption of food; and some use public funds and subsidies to promote access among poor communities to recreational and sporting facilities.\"\n\nBruce Silverglade, director of legal affairs for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, said his nonprofit nutrition advocacy organization welcomed the recommendations and has spent years fighting for measures like a Junk Food Tax. The proposal got more traction when New York Assemblyman Felix Ortiz proposed taxes on junk food and entertainment contributing to sedentary lifestyles to fund nutrition and exercise programs. It should also be remembered that taxing foodstuffs is not an argument for increasing taxation. Other taxes can be reduced commensurately if the overall objective is to keep the tax take neutral. The fat tax is an argument for raising taxes on activities that we prefer to discourage (consumption of certain foodstuffs) rather than raising taxes on socially desirable activities. Therefore, opponents of this type of taxation must identify which taxes are preferable to taxing these foodstuffs.\n\nOther advocates of the tax, such as Jonathan Gruber point to the effect taxes have had on alcohol and tobacco use. Five studies published between 1981 and 1998 found that drinking declined as the price of alcohol increased. The same holds for tobacco. In California in 1988, Proposition 99 increased the state tax by 25 cents per cigarette pack and allocated a minimum of 20% of revenue to fund anti-tobacco education. From 1988 to 1993, the state saw tobacco use decline by 27%, three times better than the U.S. average.\n\nA CBS News poll from January 2010 reported that a tax on items such as soft drinks and foods considered to be junk food, is opposed 60% to 38%. An even larger number, 72% of Americans, also believed that a tax would not actually help people lose weight. However, the question of whether or not taxation influences diet is an empirical question and not simply a matter of public opinion. While a February 2010 poll by the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute found that New York City residents overwhelmingly favor a soft drink tax, with 76 percent wanting the tax, and 22 percent opposing it. The poll found both Republicans and Democrats favor the tax.\nIn October 2011, British prime minister David Cameron told reporters that his government might introduce a Fat Tax as part of the solution to Britain's obesity problem.\n\nJapan implemented the 'metabo' law which included the measurement of waist sizes in 2008 in attempt to overcome increasing obesity rates. \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"To reach its goals of shrinking the overweight population by 10 percent over the next four years and 25 percent over the next seven years, the government will impose financial penalties on companies and local governments that fail to meet specific targets. The country’s Ministry of Health argues that the campaign will keep the spread of diseases like diabetes and strokes in check.\" The 'metabo' law involved conducting an annual waist measurement check of people aged between 40 and 75, which was administered by employers and local government. The role of employers and local government was to ensure there was a minimum of 65% participation, with a goal to decrease Japan's obesity rates by 25% by 2015 and failure to meet these goals results in a fine.\n\nIn October 2011, Denmark introduced a fat tax on butter, milk, cheese, pizza, meat, oil and processed food if the item contains more than 2.3% saturated fat. However, in November 2012, the Danish Tax Ministry announced it would abolish the fat tax, stating that it failed to change Danes' eating habits, had encouraged cross border trading, put Danish jobs at risk and had been a bureaucratic nightmare for producers and outlets. The failure of Denmark's fat tax was also due to financial reasons, with politicians identifying the fat tax as a funding source for the government, rather than a health initiative that attempted to improve the health outcomes of society. The proposed sugar tax plans were also scrapped.\n\nMette Gjerskov, the Danish minister of food, agriculture and fisheries, stated that \"the fat tax is one of the most criticized we had in a long time. Now we have to try to improve public health by other means.” Although the tax resulted in an additional $216 million in revenue, it also led to numerous complaints from Danish retailers that their customers were taking their business to other countries, such as Sweden and Germany, to take advantage of their lower prices.\n\nIn the Indian state of Kerala which is ruled by CPI(M), as a part of June 2016 budgets, the government proposed a 14.5 per cent 'fat tax' on burgers, pizzas and other junk food served in branded restaurants which officials from the quick service industry termed as 'detrimental' to consumption. Industry estimates suggest there are 50-75 outlets of organised fast-food restaurant chains in Kerala, including global brands McDonald's, Chicking, Burger King, Pizza Hut, Domino's Pizza and Subway. Kerala is the first state in India to introduce a \"fat tax\" on burgers, pizzas, doughnuts and tacos served in branded restaurants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1428240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1428240", "title": "Fertility medication", "text": "Fertility medication\n\nFertility medication, better known as fertility drugs, are drugs which enhance reproductive fertility. For women, fertility medication is used to stimulate follicle development of the ovary. There are currently very few fertility medication options available for men.\n\nAgents that enhance ovarian activity can be classified as either Gonadotropin releasing hormone, Estrogen antagonists or Gonadotropins.\n\nEither Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) or any Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (i.e. Lupron) may be used. GnRH stimulates the release of gonadotropins (LH and FSH) from the anterior pituitary in the body.\n\nFertility medication inhibiting the effects of estrogen includes Clomiphene and Aromatase inhibitors.\n\nClomiphene (trademarked as Clomid) is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). It is the most widely used fertility drug. It is used as an ovarian stimulator by inhibiting the negative feedback of estrogen at the hypothalamus. As the negative feedback of estrogen is inhibited, the hypothalamus secretes GnRh which in turn stimulates the anterior pituitary to secrete LH and FSH which help in ovulation.\n\nAlthough primarily a breast cancer treatment, aromatase inhibitors can also work as fertility medication, probably through a mechanism similar to clomiphene.\n\nGonadotropins are the hormones in the body that normally stimulate the gonads (testes and ovaries). For medication, they can be extracted from urine or by genetic modification.\n\nFor example, the so-called menotropins consist of LH and FSH extracted from human urine from menopausal women. FSH and FSH analogues are mainly used for ovarian hyperstimulation as well as reversal of anovulation.\n\nThere are also recombinant variants which are created by inserting the DNA coding for it into bacteriae. The bacterial DNA is then called Recombinant DNA. Examples of recombinant FSH are Follistim and Gonal F, while Luveris is a recombinant LH.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is normally produced during pregnancy. However, it can also replace LH as an ovulation inducer.\n\nhMG is a medication containing a follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and a lutenizing hormone (LH).\n\nThere currently are no effective medications to treat oligospermia, so other assisted reproductive technologies are used.\n\nResearch in male fertility medication is currently ongoing. A study in Egypt assessed the efficacy of a combination of clomiphene and vitamin E in improving sperm count and sperm motility in male infertility.\n\nEstrogen antagonists and gonadotropins may stimulate multiple follicles and other ovarian hormones leading to multiple birth and possible ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.\n\n\nManufacturers:\n"}
{"id": "27367453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27367453", "title": "Health Education &amp; Behavior", "text": "Health Education &amp; Behavior\n\nHealth Education & Behavior is a bimonthly peer-reviewed healthcare journal covering applied behavioral and social science in public health published by SAGE Publications. It is an official journal of the Society for Public Health Education (SOPHE).\n\nThe journal was established in 1957 as \"Health Education Monographs\" which was produced on an occasional basis with no set publishing schedule until 1974, when it became a quarterly publication with standard volume numbering and pagination. The first issue of 1974 became volume 2, issue 1. All previous issues covering issues 1 to 36, from 1957 to 1973, were designated to constitute volume 1. During this period, \"Health Education Monographs\" was printed by various small publishing companies or cooperatively by SOPHE and the World Health Organization. No volume was published in 1979 due to extensive ongoing changes, including a new publisher, editor, and format.\n\nIn 1980, the journal was renamed \"Health Education Quarterly\" and a publication agreement was negotiated with Human Sciences Press. John Wiley & Sons became the publisher with volume 10 in 1983 and the journal changed to its present publisher, SAGE Publications, in 1995. In 1997, the journal expanded to six issues annually to accommodate the growing volume of submissions and was renamed \"Health Education & Behavior\".\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed by CAB Abstracts, CINAHL, Current Contents/Social & Behavioral Sciences, Global Health, Index Medicus/MEDLINE/PubMed, ProQuest databases, Psychological Abstracts, PsycINFO, PsycLIT, SafetyLit, Scopus, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Sociological Abstracts. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal's 2015 impact factor is 2.312.\n"}
{"id": "16541067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541067", "title": "Health in Vietnam", "text": "Health in Vietnam\n\nLife expectancy has risen by two years for males and females in Vietnam between 2000 and 2012. This is half of the average rise in life expectancy for other parts of the world during the same time period.\n\nMalnutrition is still common in the provinces, and the life expectancy and infant mortality rates are stagnating. In 2001 government spending on health care corresponded to just 0.9 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). Government subsidies covered only about 20 percent of health care expenses, with the remaining 80 percent coming out of individuals’ own pockets.\n\nIn 2012, almost 22% of deaths could be attributed to strokes. This leading cause of death was followed by heart disease with 7% of deaths, and Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with 4.9% of deaths. The two largest risk factors for adults are tobacco use and raised blood pressure.\n\nContraception is widely used and most births are attended to by trained healthcare providers. Only about 60% of women receive antenatal care during their pregnancies.\n\nBeginning in the late 1980s, the quality of health care began to decline as a result of budgetary constraints, a shift of responsibility to the provinces, and the introduction of charges. Inadequate funding has led to delays in planned upgrades to water supply and sewage systems. Consequently, almost half the population has no access to clean water, a deficiency that promotes such infectious diseases as malaria, dengue fever, typhoid, and cholera. Additionally, inadequate funding has contributed to a shortage of nurses, midwives, and hospital beds. In 2000 Vietnam had only 250,000 hospital beds, or 14.8 beds per 10,000 people, a very low ratio among Asian nations, according to the World Bank. Government expenditure on health has declined and the health system is largely financed through user-fees which has direct implications for the rural poor, deterring them from accessing health care.\n\nSeveral health defects have been correlated with the use of the chemical dioxin, also known as Agent Orange, during the Resistance War Against America (Vietnam War). Dioxin was used in the war as a defoliant and is now considered a carcinogen. Major differences in dioxin levels have been measured in the blood and breast milk of those living in areas that had been sprayed with Agent Orange when compared to other areas of Vietnam. This carcinogen is associated with tumors, immune deficiency, reproductive and developmental disorders, nervous system defects, and a variety of other birth defects including Spina bifida. Agent Orange continues to be a risk factor in Vietnam today because of its continued presence in soil, wildlife, and food. In addition, the effects continue to be seen in generations born to those exposed to Agent orange. Beginning in 2007, Vietnam Veterans are now compensated for detrimental health effects due to Exposure.\n\nVietnam has made progress in combating malaria, for which the mortality rate declined sharply, to about 5 percent of the rate in the early 1990s, after the country introduced antimalarial drugs and treatment.\n\nThe Viet Nam National Tuberculosis Control Program (NTP) worked with a control strategy recommended by the World Health Organization to lower Tuberculosis (TB) rates, and successfully exceeded target goals in 1997. However, although there was a decrease in TB incidence among women and persons over 35, the rates of Tuberculosis among young men in Vietnam significantly increased during this time, causing a stabilization of the overall rate. According to the World Health Organization, Vietnam has the 12th highest incidence of Tuberculosis worldwide. There are an estimated 89 positive cases for every 100,000 individuals. With an intensified vaccination program, better hygiene, and foreign assistance, Vietnam hopes to sharply reduce the number of TB cases and annual number of new infections.\n\nA 2012 study of tuberculosis control in Vietnam identified a shortcoming in the current strategy of attending solely to symptomatic patients, as it has not been marked by any significant decrease in TB rates. Instead, the authors of the research advocated for a strategy of contact tracing that would focus on household members of Tuberculosis patients in Hanoi. The study found a high incidence of TB rates in the household contacts tested and concluded that household contact investigation would be a feasible disease management strategy in Vietnam.\n\nAs of January 2005, Vietnam had diagnosed 101,291 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) cases, of which 16,528 developed acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and 9,554 died. But the actual number of HIV-positive individuals is estimated to be much higher. An average of 40–50 new infections are reported every day in Vietnam. Vietnam hopes to contain the HIV infection rate at the current official rate of 0.35 percent, which is about average worldwide, by limiting the disease as much as possible to sex workers and intravenous drug users. However, if the current trend continues, the number of infected persons could reach 1 million by 2010. One of the impediments to containing HIV/AIDS is that the victims face discrimination and stigmatization that are more severe than almost anywhere else in the world, according to a United Nations official. However non-governmental organizations, like the Supporting Community Development Initiatives (SCDI) for example, are devoted to improve the situation and quality of life of HIV/AIDS affected people. In June 2004, the Bush Administration announced that Vietnam would be one of 15 nations to receive funding as part of a US$15 billion global AIDS plan.\n\nVietnam experienced a boom of dengue fever when 181,054 infection cases and 30 deaths were reported in almost localities in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. As many as 14,079 dengue fever cases with three deaths have been reported this year so far across the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "58155298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58155298", "title": "Helsmoortel-Van der Aa syndrome", "text": "Helsmoortel-Van der Aa syndrome\n\nHelsmoortel-Van der Aa syndrome is a condition caused by mutations in the activity-dependent neuroprotector homeobox (ADNP) gene. This condition is rare with <100 cases described up to 2018. \n\nThis condition is caused by mutations in the ADNP gene. This gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 20 (20q13.13).\n\nThe ANDP gene is involved in the autophagy pathway. Its precise role in this process is under active investigation.\n\nThese are variable and include autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disability, dysmorphic features and hypotonia. \n\nThis is made by sequencing the ADNP gene.\n\nTreatment is symptomatic. This may include speech, occupational, and physical therapy and specialized learning programs depending on individual needs.\n\nTreatment of neuropsychiatric features may also be needed.\n\nNutritional support is sometimes needed. \n\nTreatment of the ophthalmologic and cardiac finding that may co exist is also indicated.\n\nThe gene was described in 1999.\n\nADNP has been associated with abnormalities in the autophagy pathway in schizophrenia.\n"}
{"id": "38684756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38684756", "title": "Howard Clinebell", "text": "Howard Clinebell\n\nHoward John Clinebell (June 3, 1922 – April 13, 2005) was a minister in the United Methodist Church and a professor in pastoral counseling. He pioneered a counseling approach that combined psychotherapy and religion.\n\nHoward Clinebell was born in Springfield, Illinois on June 3, 1922 to Howard J. and Clem (Whittenberg) Clinebell. He \"graduated from DePauw University in Indiana and Garrett Theological Seminary in Illinois. He earned a doctorate at Columbia University in New York City.\" In addition he studied psychotherapy at the William White Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Psychoanalysis in New York City.\n\nIn the mid-1950s Clinebell joined the staff at the First United Methodist Church in Pasadena. He went on to become counselor at Methodist Hospital in Arcadia. In 1959 he joined the Claremont faculty as a professor of pastoral psychology. Clinebell retired in 1988.\n\nClinebell is author or co-author of more than 20 books of which the most influential are \"Understanding and Counseling the Alcoholic Through Religion and Psychology\" (1956) and \"Basic Types of Pastoral Counseling\" (1966, revised edition \"Basic Types of Pastoral Care and Counseling\" 1984). With his book on counseling of alcoholics Clinebell introduced the concept to view alcoholism as a disease rather than a character deficiency in religious circles. As one of the fathers of the pastoral counseling movement Clinebell was an early advocate of training in psychotherapy for seminarians aiming to work as counselors. He was a founding member of the American Association of Pastoral Counselors.\n\nBesides pastoral counseling Clinebell addressed topics like personal problems in the context of relationships, the effects of social systems on individual lives, and the relationship of human beings to the environment.\n\nClinebell died April 13, 2005 of complications from Parkinson's disease at Vista del Monte Retirement Community in Santa Barbara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "203297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203297", "title": "Hydrocephalus", "text": "Hydrocephalus\n\nHydrocephalus is a condition in which an accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) occurs within the brain. This typically causes increased pressure inside the skull. Older people may have headaches, double vision, poor balance, urinary incontinence, personality changes, or mental impairment. In babies, it may be seen as a rapid increase in head size. Other symptoms may include vomiting, sleepiness, seizures, and downward pointing of the eyes.\nHydrocephalus can occur due to birth defects or be acquired later in life. Associated birth defects include neural tube defects and those that result in aqueductal stenosis. Other causes include meningitis, brain tumors, traumatic brain injury, intraventricular hemorrhage, and subarachnoid hemorrhage. The four types of hydrocephalus are communicating, noncommunicating, \"ex vacuo\", and normal pressure. Diagnosis is typically made by examination and medical imaging.\nHydrocephalus is typically treated by the surgical placement of a shunt system. A procedure called a third ventriculostomy may be an option in a few people. Complications from shunts may include overdrainage, underdrainage, mechanical failure, infection, or obstruction. This may require replacement. Outcomes are variable, but many people with shunts live normal lives. Without treatment, death may occur.\nAbout one to two per 1,000 newborns have hydrocephalus. Rates in the developing world may be more. Normal pressure hydrocephalus is estimated to affect about 5 per 100,000 people with rates increasing with age. Description of hydrocephalus by Hippocrates date back more than 2000 years. The word \"hydrocephalus\" is .\n\nThe clinical presentation of hydrocephalus varies with chronicity. Acute dilatation of the ventricular system is more likely to manifest with the nonspecific signs and symptoms of increased intracranial pressure. By contrast, chronic dilatation (especially in the elderly population) may have a more insidious onset presenting, for instance, with Hakim's triad (Adams triad).\n\nSymptoms of increased intracranial pressure may include headaches, vomiting, nausea, papilledema, sleepiness, or coma. Elevated intracranial pressure may result in uncal or tonsillar herniation, with resulting life-threatening brain stem compression.\n\nHakim's triad of gait instability, urinary incontinence, and dementia is a relatively typical manifestation of the distinct entity normal-pressure hydrocephalus. Focal neurological deficits may also occur, such as abducens nerve palsy and vertical gaze palsy (Parinaud syndrome due to compression of the quadrigeminal plate, where the neural centers coordinating the conjugated vertical eye movement are located). The symptoms depend on the cause of the blockage, the person's age, and how much brain tissue has been damaged by the swelling.\n\nIn infants with hydrocephalus, CSF builds up in the central nervous system, causing the fontanelle (soft spot) to bulge and the head to be larger than expected. Early symptoms may also include:\n\nSymptoms that may occur in older children can include:\n\nBecause hydrocephalus can injure the brain, thought and behavior may be adversely affected. Learning disabilities including short-term memory loss are common among those with hydrocephalus, who tend to score better on verbal IQ than on performance IQ, which is thought to reflect the distribution of nerve damage to the brain. However, the severity of hydrocephalus can differ considerably between individuals, and some are of average or above-average intelligence. Someone with hydrocephalus may have coordination and visual problems, problems with coordination, or clumsiness. They may reach puberty earlier than the average child (see precocious puberty). About one in four develops epilepsy.\n\nCongenital hydrocephalus is present in the infant prior to birth, meaning the fetus developed hydrocephalus \"in utero\" during fetal development. The most common cause of congenital hydrocephalus is aqueductal stenosis, which occurs when the narrow passage between the third and fourth ventricles in the brain is blocked or too narrow to allow sufficient cerebral spinal fluid to drain. Fluid accumulates in the upper ventricles, causing hydrocephalus.\n\nOther causes of congenital hydrocephalus include neural-tube defects, arachnoid cysts, Dandy-Walker syndrome, and Arnold-Chiari malformation.\nThe cranial bones fuse by the end of the third year of life. For head enlargement to occur, hydrocephalus must occur before then. The causes are usually genetic, but can also be acquired and usually occur within the first few months of life, which include intraventricular matrix hemorrhages in premature infants, infections, type II Arnold-Chiari malformation, aqueduct atresia and stenosis, and Dandy-Walker malformation.\n\nIn newborns and toddlers with hydrocephalus, the head circumference is enlarged rapidly and soon surpasses the 97th percentile. Since the skull bones have not yet firmly joined together, bulging, firm anterior and posterior fontanelles may be present even when the patient is in an upright position.\n\nThe infant exhibits fretfulness, poor feeding, and frequent vomiting. As the hydrocephalus progresses, torpor sets in, and infants show lack of interest in their surroundings. Later on, their upper eyelids become retracted and their eyes are turned downwards (\"sunset eyes\") (due to hydrocephalic pressure on the mesencephalic tegmentum and paralysis of upward gaze). Movements become weak and the arms may become tremulous. Papilledema is absent, but vision may be reduced. The head becomes so enlarged that they eventually may be bedridden.\n\nAbout 80–90% of fetuses or newborn infants with spina bifida—often associated with meningocele or myelomeningocele—develop hydrocephalus.\n\nThis condition is acquired as a consequence of CNS infections, meningitis, brain tumors, head trauma, toxoplasmosis, or intracranial hemorrhage (subarachnoid or intraparenchymal), and is usually painful.\n\nThe cause of hydrocephalus is not known with certainty and is probably multifactorial. It may be caused by impaired CSF flow, reabsorption, or excessive CSF production.\n\n\nBased on its underlying mechanisms, hydrocephalus can be classified into communicating and noncommunicating (obstructive). Both forms can be either congenital or acquired.\n\nCommunicating hydrocephalus, also known as nonobstructive hydrocephalus, is caused by impaired CSF reabsorption in the absence of any CSF-flow obstruction between the ventricles and subarachnoid space. This may be due to functional impairment of the arachnoidal granulations (also called arachnoid granulations or Pacchioni's granulations), which are located along the superior sagittal sinus, and is the site of CSF reabsorption back into the venous system. Various neurologic conditions may result in communicating hydrocephalus, including subarachnoid/intraventricular hemorrhage, meningitis, and congenital absence of arachnoid villi. Scarring and fibrosis of the subarachnoid space following infectious, inflammatory, or hemorrhagic events can also prevent resorption of CSF, causing diffuse ventricular dilatation.\n\nNoncommunicating hydrocephalus, or obstructive hydrocephalus, is caused by a CSF-flow obstruction. \n\n\nHydrocephalus is usually due to blockage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) outflow in the ventricles or in the subarachnoid space over the brain. In a person without hydrocephalus, CSF continuously circulates through the brain, its ventricles and the spinal cord and is continuously drained away into the circulatory system. Alternatively, the condition may result from an overproduction of the CSF, from a congenital malformation blocking normal drainage of the fluid, or from complications of head injuries or infections.\n\nCompression of the brain by the accumulating fluid eventually may cause neurological symptoms such as convulsions, intellectual disability and epileptic seizures. These signs occur sooner in adults, whose skulls are no longer able to expand to accommodate the increasing fluid volume within. Fetuses, infants, and young children with hydrocephalus typically have an abnormally large head, excluding the face, because the pressure of the fluid causes the individual skull bones—which have yet to fuse—to bulge outward at their juncture points. Another medical sign, in infants, is a characteristic fixed downward gaze with whites of the eyes showing above the iris, as though the infant were trying to examine its own lower eyelids.\n\nThe elevated intracranial pressure may cause compression of the brain, leading to brain damage and other complications. Conditions among affected individuals vary widely.\n\nIf the foramina of the fourth ventricle or the cerebral aqueduct are blocked, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can accumulate within the ventricles. This condition is called internal hydrocephalus and it results in increased CSF pressure. The production of CSF continues, even when the passages that normally allow it to exit the brain are blocked. Consequently, fluid builds inside the brain, causing pressure that dilates the ventricles and compresses the nervous tissue. Compression of the nervous tissue usually results in irreversible brain damage. If the skull bones are not completely ossified when the hydrocephalus occurs, the pressure may also severely enlarge the head. The cerebral aqueduct may be blocked at the time of birth or may become blocked later in life because of a tumor growing in the brainstem.\n\nHydrocephalus can be successfully treated by placing a drainage tube (shunt) between the brain ventricles and abdominal cavity. Some risk exists of infection being introduced into the brain through these shunts, however, and the shunts must be replaced as the person grows. A subarachnoid hemorrhage may block the return of CSF to the circulation.\n\nThis should be distinguished from external hydrocephalus. This is a condition generally seen in infants and involving enlarged fluid spaces or subarachnoid spaces around the outside of the brain. This is generally a benign condition that resolves spontaneously by 2 years of age. Imaging studies and a good medical history can help to differentiate external hydrocephalus from subdural hemorrhages or symptomatic chronic extra-axial fluid collections which are accompanied by vomiting, headaches, and seizures.\n\nHydrocephalus treatment is surgical, creating a way for the excess fluid to drain away. In the short term, an external ventricular drain (ETV), also known as an extraventricular drain or ventriculostomy, provides relief. In the long term, some patients will need any of various types of cerebral shunt. It involves the placement of a ventricular catheter (a tube made of silastic) into the cerebral ventricles to bypass the flow obstruction/malfunctioning arachnoidal granulations and drain the excess fluid into other body cavities, from where it can be resorbed. Most shunts drain the fluid into the peritoneal cavity (ventriculoperitoneal shunt), but alternative sites include the right atrium (ventriculoatrial shunt), pleural cavity (ventriculopleural shunt), and gall bladder. A shunt system can also be placed in the lumbar space of the spine and have the CSF redirected to the peritoneal cavity (lumbar-peritoneal shunt). An alternative treatment for obstructive hydrocephalus in selected patients is the endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV), whereby a surgically created opening in the floor of the third ventricle allows the CSF to flow directly to the basal cisterns, thereby shortcutting any obstruction, as in aqueductal stenosis. This may or may not be appropriate based on individual anatomy. For infants, ETV is sometimes combined with choroid plexus cauterization, which reduces the amount of cerebrospinal fluid produced by the brain. The technique, known as ETV/CPC was pioneered in Uganda by neurosurgeon Ben Warf and is now in use in several U.S. hospitals.\n\nExamples of possible complications include shunt malfunction, shunt failure, and shunt infection, along with infection of the shunt tract following surgery (the most common reason for shunt failure is infection of the shunt tract). Although a shunt generally works well, it may stop working if it disconnects, becomes blocked (clogged) or infected, or it is outgrown. If this happens, the CSF begins to accumulate again and a number of physical symptoms develop (headaches, nausea, vomiting, photophobia/light sensitivity), some extremely serious, such as seizures. The shunt failure rate is also relatively high (of the 40,000 surgeries performed annually to treat hydrocephalus, only 30% are a patient's first surgery) and patients not uncommonly have multiple shunt revisions within their lifetimes.\n\nAnother complication can occur when CSF drains more rapidly than it is produced by the choroid plexus, causing symptoms of listlessness, severe headaches, irritability, light sensitivity, auditory hyperesthesia (sound sensitivity), nausea, vomiting, dizziness, vertigo, migraines, seizures, a change in personality, weakness in the arms or legs, strabismus, and double vision to appear when the patient is vertical. If the patient lies down, the symptoms usually vanish quickly. A CT scan may or may not show any change in ventricle size, particularly if the patient has a history of slit-like ventricles. Difficulty in diagnosing overdrainage can make treatment of this complication particularly frustrating for patients and their families. Resistance to traditional analgesic pharmacological therapy may also be a sign of shunt overdrainage or failure.\n\nThe diagnosis of CSF buildup is complex and requires specialist expertise. Diagnosis of the particular complication usually depends on when the symptoms appear, that is, whether symptoms occur when the patient is upright or in a prone position, with the head at roughly the same level as the feet.\n\nBecause the shunt systems are too expensive for most people in developing countries, such people often die without getting a shunt. Worse, the rate of revision in shunt systems adds to their cost, many times over. Looking at this point, a study compares shunt systems and highlights the role of low-cost shunt systems in most of the developing countries. It compares the Chhabra shunt system to shunt systems from developed countries and finds no difference in the outcomes of procedures using the different systems.\n\nReferences to hydrocephalic skulls can be found in ancient Egyptian medical literature from 2500 BC to 500 AD. Hydrocephalus was described more clearly by the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates in the fourth century BC, while a more accurate description was later given by the Roman physician Galen in the second century AD.\n\nThe first clinical description of an operative procedure for hydrocephalus appears in the \"Al-Tasrif\" (1000 AD) by the Arab surgeon, Abulcasis, who clearly described the evacuation of superficial intracranial fluid in hydrocephalic children. He described it in his chapter on neurosurgical disease, describing infantile hydrocephalus as being caused by mechanical compression. He wrote:\n\nIn 1881, a few years after the landmark study of Retzius and Key, Carl Wernicke pioneered sterile ventricular puncture and external drainage of cerebrospinal fluid for the treatment of hydrocephalus. It remained an intractable condition until the 20th century, when cerebral shunt and other neurosurgical treatment modalities were developed.\n\nIt is a lesser-known medical condition; relatively little research is conducted to improve treatment, and still no cure has been found. In developing countries, the condition often goes untreated at birth. Before birth, the condition is difficult to diagnose, and access to medical treatment is limited. However, when head swelling is prominent, children are taken at great expense for treatment. By then, brain tissue is undeveloped and neurosurgery is rare and difficult. Children more commonly live with undeveloped brain tissue and consequential intellectual disabilities and restrictions.\n\nSeptember was designated National Hydrocephalus Awareness Month in July 2009 by the U.S. Congress in HR373. The resolution campaign is due in part to the advocacy work of the Pediatric Hydrocephalus Foundation, Inc. Prior to July 2009, no awareness month for this condition had been designated. Many of the hydrocephalus organizations within the United States use various ribbon designs as a part of their awareness and fundraising activities.\n\nOne exceptional case of hydrocephalus was a man whose brain shrank to a thin sheet of tissue, due to a buildup of cerebrospinal fluid in his skull. As a child, the man had a shunt, but it was removed when he was 14. In July 2007, at age 44, he went to a hospital due to mild weakness in his left leg. When doctors learned of the man's medical history, they performed a CT scan and MRI scan, and were astonished to see \"massive enlargement\" of the lateral ventricles in the skull. Dr. Lionel Feuillet of Hôpital de la Timone in Marseille said, \"The images were most unusual... the brain was virtually absent.\" Intelligence tests showed the patient had an IQ of 75, considered \"borderline intellectual functioning\", just above what would be officially considered mentally challenged.\n\nThe patient was a married father of two children, and worked as a civil servant, leading an at least superficially normal life, despite having enlarged ventricles with a decreased volume of brain tissue. \"What I find amazing to this day is how the brain can deal with something which you think should not be compatible with life\", commented Dr. Max Muenke, a pediatric brain-defect specialist at the National Human Genome Research Institute. \"If something happens very slowly over quite some time, maybe over decades, the different parts of the brain take up functions that would normally be done by the part that is pushed to the side.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37953948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37953948", "title": "IDEAL framework", "text": "IDEAL framework\n\nIDEAL (Idea, Development, Exploration, Assessment, Long-term study) is a framework for describing the stages of innovation in surgery and other interventional procedures. The purpose of IDEAL is to improve the quality of research in surgery by emphasizing appropriate methods, transparency of data and rigorous reporting of outcomes.\n\nTo achieve this, the IDEAL framework provides a set of recommendations for improving the evidence base from research at each stage of innovation, as outlined in the seminal paper published in \"The Lancet\" in 2009. The recommendations emphasize evaluating new procedures prospectively, entering patients and studies into registries and databases to capture all incidences of a procedure, and reporting outcomes by established protocols. It is the first and only such framework for evidence-based practice that was established specifically for surgery and interventional procedures.\n\nThe IDEAL framework was the result of an expert consensus developed from a series of meetings held at Balliol College, Oxford from 2007-2009. This group was known as the Balliol Collaboration. The purpose of the meetings was to address the challenges unique to establishing the optimal evidence base in surgery, including practical, methodological, and ethical challenges. Attendees to the meeting (the “IDEAL collaboration”) included experts in evidence-based medicine, including Cochrane Collaboration founder Iain Chalmers, public health expert Muir Gray, statistician and founder of the Centre for Statistics in Medicine in Oxford Doug Altman, clinician-researchers, methodologists, and manufacturers of medical devices.\n\nThe five stages of IDEAL, and the recommendations for each stage, are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the original publication in \"The Lancet\", the authors outline a number of proposals for key stakeholders in the generation of surgical evidence. These include journal editors, funders of services and research, regulators, and professional societies.\n\nThe original IDEAL collaboration consists of attendees to the Balliol meetings. Subsequent members include other stakeholders in evidence-based surgery and interventional procedures. The IDEAL collaboration is led by Oxford surgeon-researcher Peter McCulloch.\n\nWhile the initial Balliol meetings were intended to address innovations in surgery and interventional procedures, it soon became clear that there were also deficits in the evaluation of medical devices and implants used in such procedures. In December 2011, the Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the United States Food and Drug Administration held a public workshop on using the IDEAL framework to help develop high-quality evidence for devices and implants. In September 2012, the FDA published its strategy for improved postmarket surveillance based in part on the discussions from the IDEAL meeting, including the promotion of registries for devices, better assessment of evidence already published, and improved reporting of adverse events.\nIDEAL collaborators have written several editorials and commentaries in journals such as the \"British Medical Journal\" and \"The Lancet\" concerning the regulation of devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "32560458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32560458", "title": "Institute of Health Sciences (Ireland)", "text": "Institute of Health Sciences (Ireland)\n\nThe Institute of Health Sciences was established in 2008 by Anneliese Dressel and Suzanne Laurie. Anneliese Dressel is most known as a radio personality for her weekly slot on C103 which is a radio station in County Cork, Ireland. This education facility offer students certificate and diploma courses for those wishing to pursue a career in nutritional sciences and health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15232178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15232178", "title": "International Society for Pharmacoepidemiology", "text": "International Society for Pharmacoepidemiology\n\nThe International Society for Pharmacoepidemiology (ISPE) was launched officially by Stanley A. Edlavitch, David E. Lilienfeld, and Hugh A. Tilson in 1989 during the Fifth International Conference on Pharmacoepidemiology (ICPE) in Minneapolis. (The initial conference, in 1985, was the International Conference on Linked Databases.) ISPE is the only international acting society dealing with the topics of pharmacoepidemiology in the context of pharmacovigilance or drug safety; the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) addresses outcomes research epidemiology. The society has organized yearly conferences since its foundation. The society's office is located in Bethesda, Maryland, and its executive director is Mark Epstein. A number of the major figures in drug safety and pharmacovigilance have served as its Presidents, and its Officers and Trustees have been drawn from the leadership of the pharmacoepidemiology community. Members of the Society come from 53 nations and mostly come from academia, pharmaceutical industry, Contract Research Organizations and governmental institutions (e.g., U.S. Food and Drug Administration, National Institutes of Health, EMEA, BfArM, Robert Koch Institute (RKI)) acting als drug regulators. The official journal of the society is \"Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety\" which is indexed in MEDLINE and the regularly edited newsletter \"Scribe\" is available on the above-mentioned website of ISPE. (The original Society newsletter was the PharmacoEpidemiology Newsletter (PEN), created by Stanley A. Edlavitch (edited by Edlavitch and David E. Lilienfeld) in 1985. In 1992, the Society returned the PEN to Edlavitch.) The current president of the society is John D. Seeger, from the Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics at Harvard Medical School/Brigham and Women's Hospital \nBoston, MA.\n\nThe ISPE is directed by a structured Board of Trustees, ensuring that each of its various constituencies has some voice within the organization. The major areas within which pharmacoepidemiology is practiced (industry, government, academia) provides the framework for the three forums within which ISPE members may raise items for discussion by the ISPE Board.\n\n"}
{"id": "18038039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18038039", "title": "Kassian method", "text": "Kassian method\n\nThe Kassian Method is a system of manual therapy supposedly taken from traditional Ukrainian medicine that was developed by Professor Nikolaj Andreevich Kassian at The National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Kassian proposed to use this therapy as a way to treat diseases of the lumbosacral spine without the use of drugs. Observation and testing of patients before treatment became a core principle of the Kassian method. He latter applied this technique to treatment Arthritis of hands, feet and knees.\n\nIt is claimed that 95% of patients feel improvement after the Kassian Method is used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1835881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1835881", "title": "Lenox Baker", "text": "Lenox Baker\n\nLenox Dial Baker Sr. (November 10, 1902 – June 2, 1995) was an American orthopedic surgeon and athletic trainer at both Duke University and University of Tennessee. The Lenox Baker Children's Hospital at Duke is named in his honor. He graduated from the Duke University School of Medicine, where he was later a professor.\n\nHe was the first director (later secretary) of the North Carolina Department of Human Resources (later renamed the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services).\n\nBaker was inducted into the North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame in 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "28085993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28085993", "title": "List of Fellows of the American College of Medical Informatics", "text": "List of Fellows of the American College of Medical Informatics\n\nThe American College of Medical Informatics is a Learned society that comprises elected Fellows. Those for which the achievements have been documented on Wikipedia are provided below. Each person's name, and election year are given.\n"}
{"id": "51379318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51379318", "title": "List of burn centres in Canada", "text": "List of burn centres in Canada\n\nThis is a list of burn centres in Canada. A burn centre or burn care facility is typically a hospital ward which specializes in the treatment of severe burn injuries. There are currently 25 burns units across Canada. Most provinces have at least one burn unit, and sometimes a centre for adults and another for children.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are no designated burn centres in Prince Edward Island, though PEI hospitals treated 19 child burn cases between April 2015 and January 2016. There was no breakdown of how many burn-treated children at IWK Hospital in Nova Scotia were from PEI.\n\n\n\nThere are no known burn centres in the territories of Yukon, Nunavut, and the Northwest Territories\n"}
{"id": "3284167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3284167", "title": "List of dentists", "text": "List of dentists\n\nThis is a list of dentists who have gained a degree of notability, particularly with regard to the history of those in the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53475752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53475752", "title": "List of most-produced firearms", "text": "List of most-produced firearms\n\nThis page lists more than 100 small arms designs which have been produced in numbers exceeding one million since the late 18th century. Many more types have been made in the hundreds of thousands. Many of the firearms on this list are military weapons which were used during both World Wars, so it is unsurprising that they were manufactured in such high numbers. Others are civilian hunting and sporting weapons, which generally sell very well in countries such as the U.S. and Canada. Many of those produced have been destroyed, deactivated or fallen into disrepair, but others will have been kept in working order and sold or passed on from one generation to another down the years.\n\nIn 2018, Small Arms Survey reported that there are over one billion small arms distributed globally, of which 857 million (about 85 percent) are in civilian hands. U.S. civilians alone account for 393 million (about 46 percent) of the worldwide total of civilian held firearms. This amounts to \"120.5 firearms for every 100 residents.\" The World’s armed forces control about 133 million (about 13 percent) of the global total of small arms, of which over 43 percent belonging to two countries the Russian Federation (30.3 million) and China (27.5 million). Law enforcement agencies control about 23 million (about 2 percent) of the global total of small arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "55848061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55848061", "title": "List of syndromes", "text": "List of syndromes\n\nThis is an alphabetically-sorted list of medical syndromes.\n\n"}
{"id": "47365311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47365311", "title": "Mass deworming", "text": "Mass deworming\n\nMass deworming, also called preventive chemotherapy, is the process of treating large numbers of people, particularly children, for helminthiasis (for example soil-transmitted helminths (STH)) and schistosomiasis in areas with a high prevalence of these conditions. It involves treating everyone – often all children who attend schools, using existing infrastructure to save money – rather than testing first and then only treating selectively. Serious side effects have not been reported when administering the medication to those without worms, and testing for the infection is many times more expensive than treating it. So for the same amount of money, mass deworming can treat more people more cost-effectively than selective deworming. Mass deworming is one example of mass drug administration.\n\nMass deworming of children can be carried out by administering mebendazole and albendazole which are two types of anthelmintic drug. The cost of providing one tablet every six to twelve months per child (typical doses) is relatively low.\n\nOver 870 million children are at risk of parasitic worm infection. Worm infections interfere with nutrient uptake; can lead to anemia, malnourishment and impaired mental and physical development; and pose a serious threat to children’s health, education, and productivity. Infected children are often too sick or tired to concentrate at school, or to attend at all. In 2001, the World Health Assembly set a target for the World Health Organization (WHO) to treat 75% of school-aged children by 2010. There has been disagreement on the evidence regarding the extent of the long-term benefits for children who have been part of mass deworming programmes. Proponents of mass deworming argue that the methodology of studies that discount the value of mass deworming is biased, sample sizes have been small, and studies did not evaluate more subtle long-term impacts. As a result, they argue that such studies should not be used alone in deciding mass deworming policy.\n\nSome non-governmental organizations specifically support mass deworming. The Deworm the World Initiative, a project of the non-governmental organization Evidence Action, is one of the highest-rated charities by the evaluator Givewell because of the low cost of deworming children, large-scale implementation, and wider benefits to society.\n\nIntestinal parasitic worms (collectively called soil-transmitted helminths) affect approximately 1.5 billion people, according to WHO estimates, with 218 million needing preventive treatment for schistosoma-type worms in 2015.\n\nThe World Health Organization recommends mass deworming of children who live in endemic areas, in order to reduce morbidity by reducing the overall worm burden. The WHO advises that worm infections adversely affect nutritional status, impair cognitive processes, and can cause conditions such as intestinal obstruction or lesions in the urinary tract and liver. Periodic drug treatment is expected to bring about health benefits such as reduced micronutrient loss, reduced environmental contamination, improved nutritional status and cognitive function, and better school performance in certain circumstances.\n\nIn 2001, the World Health Assembly set a target for the WHO to treat 75 percent of school-aged children by 2010. In 2014, over 396 million preschool and school-aged children were treated, corresponding to 47 percent of children at risk.\n\nDeworming programmes for children usually administer an anthelmintic drug such as albendazole or mebendazole (or praziquantel in a weight based or height based dose for schistosomiasis). The treatment is given as a single dose in a pill formulation. Other drugs used, though not approved by the WHO, include pyrantel pamoate, piperazine, piperazine citrate, tetrachloroethylene, and levamisole. In mass deworming programs, all children are given the medication, whether they are infected or not. In endemic areas, the deworming needs to be repeated regularly. The frequency of the treatment depends on the prevalence and severity of infection which is determined by periodic surveys but is usually required annually.\n\nTo increase the benefits of mass deworming and to lower the rate of reinfection, accompanying measures of mass deworming programmes should include water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) interventions. A good example for such a combined intervention is the Essential Health Care Program implemented by the Department of Education in the Philippines: This national programme combines twice annual deworming of school children with group handwashing with soap at set times of the day at the school premises. This so-called \"Fit for School\" approach has also been implemented in Indonesia in 2014.\n\n\nReinfection with worms may begin shortly after the pill has killed the intestinal worm population. Regular re-treatment together with an increased focus on other aspects of water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) reduces the rates of infection in areas where parasitic worms are endemic.\n\nResistance of worms to anthelmintic drugs over time is a possibility.\n\nMass deworming has been determined to be cheap when calculated on a 'per child/per year' or $/DALY basis. Screening test to detect if a child is actually infected would be up to 12 times more expensive.\n\nThe cost of treating a child for infection of soil transmitted helminths and schistosomes costs different amounts in different countries when administered as part of mass school-based deworming, but Evidence Action states that their recent programmes cost $0.56 or less per child per dose. This programme is recommended by Giving What We Can and the Copenhagen Consensus Centre as one of the most efficient and cost-effective solutions. Modelling studies also suggest that deworming programmes are highly cost effective.\n\nNational deworming programmes target children of school age, which the WHO defines as being between 5 and 14 years of age. By 2015, the total global number estimated to be in deworming programmes was 495 million and national deworming programs had been started in a number of countries. The world's largest deworming programme was started in 2015 in India, with an aim to target 240 million children at risk for parasitic worms.\n\nNational deworming programmes listed by country in alphabetical order:\n\nDeworming programmes are widely accepted, although there have been some reports of parents refusing to allow their children to receive medication due to fears of illness, such as those reported in the media in the Philippines.\nOne survey in the Philippines reported that some parents will not allow their children to receive deworming tablets, while the majority would. Another in rural China found that scepticism and local myths about the deworming programme could affect the uptake of medication.\n\nThe UN is involved in mass deworming programmes via the World Food Programme, UNICEF and World Health Organization.\n\nNGOs involved in deworming advocacy or delivery include: the Deworm the World Initiative from Evidence Action, Goods For Good, Save the Children, Counterpart International, Helen Keller International, the Carter Center, Inmed Partnerships for Children, Operation Blessing International, and Children Without Worms.\n\nBiotechnology companies in the developing world have targeted neglected tropical diseases - which many helminth infections are classified as - and mass drug administration due to a need to improve global health.\n\nFor example, Johnson & Johnson has in 2012 pledged 200 million deworming tablets per year.\n\nThe national deworming programme was established as a partnership between the Pan American Health Organization - which serves as the Regional Office of the WHO, the Global Network for Neglected Tropical Diseases, the Inter-American Development Bank, Nicaraguan Government ministries, International NGOs and the main donor Children Without Worms.\n\nChildren Without Worms is a public-private partnership between The Task Force for Global Health and Johnson & Johnson, who donated the mebendazole medication. Intestinal helminths are a major problem in Nicaragua with 73% of rural households lacking clean drinking water and 73% lacking sanitation.\n\nSince 2009, drug donations from Johnson & Johnson have enabled annual deworming of school-aged children and medication supplied by other NGOs has enabled deworming of pre-school children, although questions were raised as to whether the frequency should have been increased.\n\nThe Philippines Soil Transmitted Helminth Control Program is run by the Department of Health and implemented by the Department of Education in the Philippines. It is a partnership with the WHO, University of the Philippines Manila, UNICEF, World Vision International, Feed the Children, Helen Keller International, Plan International and Save the Children. It involves giving all children doses of Albendazole or Mebendazole.\n\nHowever, in 2013 the Director of the National Institute of Health in the Philippines questioned the effectiveness of the programme because it only covered only 20% of affected children with an infection rate of 44%. By 2015, 16 million children were targeted in the deworming programme. with some media claims that some of the medication was found to be expired. Government officials later denied this. Other national press reports in July 2015 stated that a small number of children had been admitted to hospital due to an \"adverse effect\" of the deworming medication.\n\nSuccessful deworming and positive health outcomes were also achieved by the Essential Health Care Program implemented by the Department of Education in the Philippines. This national programme includes giving school children deworming drugs twice a year, as well as group handwashing with soap and brushing teeth daily with fluoride toothpaste as a group activity at set times of the day at the school premises. In 2012 UNICEF described it as an \"outstanding example of at scale action to promote children’s health and education\".\n\nPublic health campaigns to reduce helminth infections in the U.S. may be traced as far back as 1910, when the Rockefeller Foundation began the fight against hookworm – the so-called \"germ of laziness\" – which was found to infect 40% of children in the American South.\nRecords of the programme suggest that it led to increased school enrollment and attendance for children, and improved literacy and income for adults who were treated as children. \nThis campaign was enthusiastically received by educators throughout the region; as one Virginian school observed: \"children who were listless and dull are now active and alert; children who could not study a year ago are not only studying now, but are finding joy in learning... for the first time in their lives their cheeks show the glow of health.\" From Louisiana, a grateful school board added: \"As a result of your treatment...their lessons are not so hard for them, they pay better attention in class and they have more energy...In short, we have here in our school-rooms today about 120 bright, rosy-faced children, whereas had you not been sent here to treat them we would have had that many pale-faced, stupid children.\"\n\nMilitary personnel returning from the Second World War were found to be bringing intestinal worms back to the United States, so in 1947 the American Society of Parasitologists called for increased attention on deworming.\n\nFollowing World War II, the World Health Organization \"has been the principal body concerned with the international support of research and control programmes\" of schistosomiasis.\n\nIn 2001, the World Health Assembly declards the goal of 75% of schoolchildren in endemic areas receiving deworming treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "36560955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36560955", "title": "Mercy College of Health Sciences", "text": "Mercy College of Health Sciences\n\nMercy College of Health Sciences is the only private Catholic college located in downtown Des Moines, Iowa. Established by the Sisters of Mercy in 1899, Mercy College prepares graduates for service and leadership in the healthcare community with a wide range of bachelor, associate, and certificate programs. Mercy College's liberal arts and sciences education develops compassionate caregivers and leaders.\n\nIn 1893, three sisters from Mercy Hospital in Davenport, Iowa founded a hospital in Des Moines, IA. Their first location was Hoyt Sherman Place and in 1899 Mercy Hospital Training School was established. This evolved into Mercy School of Health Sciences, from which Mercy College of Health Sciences was established in downtown Des Moines in 1995.\n\nMercy College of Health Sciences offers the following programs and degrees:\n\nMercy College of Health Sciences is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission.\n"}
{"id": "53468913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53468913", "title": "Modified cornstarch therapy", "text": "Modified cornstarch therapy\n\nModified cornstarch therapy is a form of cornstarch used to treat glycogen storage disease. It is typically given at night to try to keep blood sugar levels from going low. Many children under one year of age, however, do not like uncooked cornstarch and other formulations are being studied.\n"}
{"id": "25213736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25213736", "title": "Music-specific disorders", "text": "Music-specific disorders\n\nNeuroscientists have learned a lot about the role of the brain in numerous cognitive mechanisms by understanding corresponding disorders. Similarly, neuroscientists have come to learn a lot about music cognition by studying music-specific disorders. Even though music is most often viewed from a \"historical perspective rather than a biological one\" music has significantly gained the attention of neuroscientists all around the world. For many centuries music has been strongly associated with art and culture. The reason for this increased interest in music is because it \"provides a tool to study numerous aspects of neuroscience, from motor skill learning to emotion\".\n\nAn important technique that is used by neuroscientists in understanding the cognition of music involves understanding musical disorders. This article describes some of the disorders that have been identified by neuroscientists. They range from disorders involving pitch, rhythm and melody, playing instruments and creating music. This article explores two of the most commonly found music related disorders—(1)\n\nBefore delving into the disorders related to music, it is important to have a basic understanding of the following terms:\n\nIn the physical sense of the term, the word \"pitch\" refers to the frequency of a sound. Another term that is frequently used by music neuroscientists is \"fine-grained pitch processing\" which refers to the ability of a person to distinguish minor changes or fluctuations in pitch. Processing pitch is an extremely integral part of music cognition. Recent developments in brain scanning techniques have shown neuroscientists that the posterior secondary cortex plays an extremely important part in the processing of pitch in the brain. In music, \"pitch relation\" is more important than pitch itself. A subset of five to seven pitches creates a scale. The scale tones are \"not equivalent and are organized around a central tone, called the tonic\" (Peretz 2005).\n\nTemporal organization of music is commonly referred to as \"rhythm\". In 1982 the neuroscientist Fraisse claimed that there are mainly two types of time relations that are fundamental to musical temporal organization: (1) \"the segmentation of an ongoing sequence into temporal groups\" based on the duration values (in musical terms a whole, half, quarter, eighth or sixteenth note), and (2) \"extraction of an underlying temporal regularity or beat\".\n\nIn the brain, it is believed that the right hemisphere better handles meter, while the left hemisphere better handles rhythm. Scientists have studied patients with brain lesions in their right temporal auditory cortex and realized that they were unable to \"tap a beat or generate a steady pulse\".\n\n\"Timbre\" refers to the quality of a musical note that enables us to distinguish between different kinds of sound production. It is the characteristic of music that helps us recognize an instrument or source of a particular sound—such as a piano, saxophone, or a flute.\n\nIt is important to note that music unfolds over time, thus the \"auditory cognitive system must depend to a large degree on mechanisms that allow a stimulus to be maintained on-line to be able to relate one element in a sequence to another that occurs later\" (Peretz 2005). Research has shown that working memory mechanisms for pitch information over a short period of time may be different from those involved in speech. In addition to the role that auditory cortices play in working memory for music, neuroimaging and lesion studies prove that frontal cortical areas also play an important role.\n\nMusic is not merely \"limited to perception and memory\", but is also closely related to emotion. The mode of music (major or minor), and the tempo of a song (fast or slow) can invoke joy or sorrow in the listener. In the brain, emotional analysis is carried out by \"a common cortical relay, suggesting no direct access to subcortical, limbic structures\".\n\nWith a growing interest in music cognition amongst neuroscientists, music-specific disorders are becoming more relevant in research and in understanding music processing in the brain. In the past decade, myriad music-specific disorders have been identified, causes ranging from congenital to acquired (specific lesions in the brain).\n\nAmusia refers to the inability of certain individuals to recognize simple tunes. Amusia is commonly referred to as tone-deafness, tune-deafness, dysmelodia, or dysmusia. The first documented case of congenital amusia was reported in 2002 by leading music neuroscientists from the Department of Psychology at the University of Montreal, Canada. The case followed the case of a middle-aged woman who \"lacks most basic musical abilities\". Some of the techniques that are used in studying this disorder are functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), positron emission tomography or PET scans, and anatomical MRI.\n\nAmusia may be congenital or acquired. Congenital amusia, as the term suggests, is acquired as a result of birth or one's genes; while acquired amusia occurs as a result of accidental brain damage, stress, or cognitive deficits. Symptoms of this disease vary from lack of basic melodic discrimination, recognition despite normal audiometry, above average intellectual, memory, as well as language skills (Peretz 2002). Another conspicuous symptom of amusia is the ability of the affected individual to carry out normal speech, however, he or she is unable to sing. Amusic individuals \"show a particular deficit in discriminating musical pitch variations and in recognizing familiar melodies\". Neuroscientists are now classifying congenital amusia as a \"new class of learning disabilities that affect musical abilities\" (Ayotte 2002).\n\nThe term \"agnosia\" refers to a loss of knowledge. Acquired music agnosia is the \"inability to recognize music in the absence of sensory, intellectual, verbal, and mnesic impairments\". Music agnosia is most commonly acquired; in most cases it is a result of bilateral infarction of the right temporal lobes. In his article, Satoh states \"when pure word deafness, auditory sound agnosia, and receptive amusia occur simultaneously, the state is called auditory agnosia\" (Satoh 2007). However, one must understand the subtle difference between auditory and music agnosia; the former refers to the inability to recognize environmental sounds while the latter refers to the inability to recognize music.\n\nThe main symptoms of music agnosia range from the inability to recognize pitch, rhythm, chords, and notes to the inability to discriminate and recognize familiar songs, and judge tonality, and reproduce musical phrases. As was previously mentioned the main causes for music agnosia are lesions in the right or bilateral temporal lobes (Satoh 2007) or unilateral strokes.\n\nMusical hallucinations (MH) can be described as perceptions of musical sounds in the absence of external auditory stimuli. Although imagined sounds can be non-musical; such as bells, whistles and sirens, case studies indicate that music “[takes] precedence over all other auditory hallucinations” (Sacks, 2006). Furthermore, MH may often take the form of songs from childhood and may be connected with strong childhood emotions.\n\nIn a literature review by Evers and Ellger (2004), manifestations of MH can also be attributed to: a) psychiatric disorder, b) brain lesion, c) epilepsy and d) intoxication. Of great interest to researchers are individuals who experience MH with focal lesions and epileptic brain activity. Until recently, neurologists believed in a hemispheric dominance theory of music. Brain scans of subjects with lesions seem to refute this notion. Evers and Ellger (2004) found no significant difference in the hemisphere associated with the lesion as the major cause of MH.\n\nThere are a range of music-specific disorders that afflict many individuals in any given population. However, since music cognition is a newly developing area of interest in the neuroscientific community, a lot more research is yet to be done and the knowledge that currently exists is vague and indefinitive. The inability to recognize or reproduce music is a major psychological disorder, as it incapacitates an individual to appreciate music and experience its therapeutic powers. Music is known for its healing and relaxing properties, therefore it is even more important that more robust experiments and research be performed in this relatively new area of neuroscience.\n\n"}
{"id": "54016248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54016248", "title": "Nevada State Hospital", "text": "Nevada State Hospital\n\nNevada State Hospital was a public psychiatric hospital located in Nevada, Missouri, constructed in 1887. The hospital was built in the design of the Kirkbride Plan.\n\nProvisions for the hospital were approved by the state of Missouri in 1885, and the hospital was constructed in 1887. The hospital officially closed in 1991, and was demolished in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "2139889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139889", "title": "Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system", "text": "Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system\n\nThe Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system (abbreviated to NTI-TSS, or NTI-tension suppression system), is a type of occlusal splint that is claimed to prevent headache and migraine by reducing sleep bruxism (night-time tooth clenching and grinding). Sleep bruxism is purported to lead to a hyperactivity of the trigeminal nerve, often triggering typical migraine events. The hyperactivity of trigeminal neurons during trigemino-nociceptive stimulation is a proposed cause of migraine and is correlated with imaging of migraine sufferers. The objective of the NTI-TSS is to relax the muscles involved in clenching and bruxing, thus supposedly diminishing the chances for migraines and tension headaches to develop through the reduction in nociceptive stimulation normally caused by parafunctional activity. It is sometimes used for temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD).\n\nThe NTI-TSS is a small transparent plastic device which is, in its most widely used form, worn over the front four teeth, of either arch, at night, and intended to prevent contact of the canines and molars. It is normally fitted by a dentist trained in the technique, and is constructed by a dental laboratory.\n\nAs the NTI-TSS does not cover all of the teeth, it is classed as a partial coverage occlusal splint. Partial coverage splints are recommended by some experts, but they have the potential to cause unwanted tooth movements if worn 24 hours a day 7 days a week with no tooth contact (which is never recommended), which rarely can be severe. Since the patient cannot wear the NTI-tss device while chewing food, the posterior alveolar structures receive regular stimulation every day, therefore, there is no opportunity for a functional adaptation of the occlusal scheme, that is supra-eruption of the teeth. Research shows that alveolar bone requires at least 8 days of lack of stimulation before bone growth at the apex (supra-eruption) can initiate. Periodontal ligament that surrounds the root and holds the tooth in place - if this ligament is stimulated (exercised) it will continue holding the teeth in correct position.\n\nAs for anterior intrusion, the lack of continuous apical force does not provide adequate opportunity to intrude an incisor. A 2010 review of scientific studies carried out to investigate the use of occlusal splints in TMD concluded the following with regards anterior bite appliances (another term for partial coverage occlusal splints that cover only the front teeth):\n\n\"Other types of appliances, including [...] anterior bite appliances, have some RCT (randomized control trial) evidence of efficacy in reducing TMD pain. However, the potential for adverse events with these appliances is higher and suggests the need for close monitoring in their use.\" \n"}
{"id": "27582066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27582066", "title": "NovaCare Rehabilitation", "text": "NovaCare Rehabilitation\n\nNovaCare Rehabilitation is a division of the Select Medical Corporation. NovaCare Rehabilitation operates as part of Select Medical Corporation's Outpatient Division which includes approximately 975 locations in 33 states and the District of Columbia and operates primarily as Select Physical Therapy, NovaCare Rehabilitation, Kessler Rehabilitation Center, First Choice Rehabilitation, Saco Bay Physical Therapy and KORT. Select Medical acquired the company in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "9377517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9377517", "title": "Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994", "text": "Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994 () is a piece of Malaysian legislation which was gazetted on 25 February 1994 by the Malaysian Parliament.\n\nThe principle of the Act is \"To make further provision for securing that safety, health and welfare of persons at work, for protecting others against risks to safety or health in connection with the activities of persons at work, to establish the National Council for Occupational Safety and Health and for matters connected therewith.\"\n\nThe Act applies throughout Malaysia to the industries specified in the First Schedule. Nothing in this act shall apply to work aboard ships governed by the Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1952 [Ord. No. 70 of 1952], the Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1960 of Sabah [Sabah Ord. No. 11 of 1960] or Sarawak [Sarawak Ord. No. 2 of 1960] or the armed forces.\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994, in its current form (1 January 2006), consists of 15 Parts containing 67 sections and 3 schedules (including no amendment).\n\n\nThe National Council for Occupational Safety and Health was established in 1995. Its main objective is \"to ensure the safety, health and welfare of employees in the workplace is secure\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9889337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9889337", "title": "Oncology Drug Advisory Committee", "text": "Oncology Drug Advisory Committee\n\nThe Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) receives requests for technical and clinical evaluation of new drugs by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The committee, consisting of members from academic and clinical oncology biostatistics, the general public, and the pharmaceutical industry, makes non-binding recommendations to both the CDER and CBER divisions of the FDA about the advisability of approving new medications to treat cancer.\n\nOncologic Drugs Advisory Committee, official webpage: http://www.fda.gov/AdvisoryCommittees/CommitteesMeetingMaterials/Drugs/OncologicDrugsAdvisoryCommittee/default.htm\n\nFDA Advisory Committees Calendar (including ODAC): http://www.fda.gov/AdvisoryCommittees/Calendar/default.htm\n"}
{"id": "45618586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45618586", "title": "Perry Kendall", "text": "Perry Kendall\n\nDr. Perry Kendall, (born 1943) is a Public health physician who was the first Provincial Health Officer (PHO) for the Canadian province of British Columbia's health ministry and was awarded the Order of British Columbia for contributions to Public health field and to harm reduction policy and practice.\n\nAfter about 20 years, Kendall retired from the Provincial Health Office role on Jan.31, 2018 and was replaced by Dr. Bonnie Henry. \n\nBorn in the United Kingdom in 1943, Dr. Kendall completed his undergraduate medical training at University College Hospital Medical School in 1968 before spending a year as Senior House Officer at the University Hospital of the West Indies in Kingston, Jamaica.\n\nIn 1972 he moved to Toronto, Canada working in general practice at the Hassle Free Clinic. Over the next two decades, Kendall moved back and forth between the provinces of Ontario and British Columbia. He moved to Vancouver in 1974 to work for the Vancouver Health Department's Pine Free Clinic and East Health Unit while acquiring a master's degree in Health Care Planning and Epidemiology and a Fellowship in Community Medicine. He then returned to Ontario in 1984 to work as a manager with the Ontario Ministry of Health until 1987, when he returned to British Columbia as Medical Officer of Health for the Capital Regional District, in which capacity he opened one of Canada's first needle exchange programs.\n\nIn 1989 he started a six-year career as Medical Officer of Health for the City of Toronto where he pioneered programs for HIV/AIDS and drug abuse prevention, established Harm Reduction as the official City policy for substance abuse, and city tobacco control by-laws. In 1995, Kendall was appointed President of the Addiction Research Foundation of Ontario, one of six academic health science centres in Toronto and a WHO Collaborating Centre, until consolidation with other organizations occurred in 1998.\n\nThe provincial government of Premier Glen Clark created the position of Provincial Health Officer (PHO) as an independent officer for the Ministry of Health through the \"Public Health Act\"\n\nAfter a year serving as Vice-President, Seniors' Health, with the Capital Health Region in Victoria, British Columbia, Dr. Kendall was appointed as the first Provincial Health Officer for the province of British Columbia in May 3, 1999.\n\nThe Health Act outlines the role of the (PHO). As senior medical health officer for British Columbia, the PHO's responsibilities include:\n\nDr. Kendall also participates on a number of provincial and national committees and co-chairs the Pan-Canadian Public Health Network Council. As PHO, he worked with the Chief Medical Health Officers of the regional health authorities (e.g. Dr. John Blatherwick of Vancouver Coastal Health). Kendall appointed Evan Adams and Bonnie Henry as Deputy Provincial Health Officers.\n\nIn late 2014, Kendall announced he would retire as PHO in early 2015 but later rescinded his decision to retire for approximately a year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15687473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15687473", "title": "Pharmaceutical care", "text": "Pharmaceutical care\n\nThe most well-known definition for pharmaceutical care came from Doug Hepler and Linda Strand in their article ‘\"Opportunities and responsibilities in pharmaceutical care\"’ from 1990. This was a landmark paper because it marked the start of the international movement to make pharmaceutical care more visible, and get the term and the type of care implemented in hospital and community pharmacy practice. During the following years both authors worked to make the concept applicable in practice. The definition reads: ‘\"Pharmaceutical care is the responsible provision of drug therapy for the purpose of achieving definite outcomes that improve the patients’ quality of life’\".\n\nAnother definition reads: Pharmaceutical care is the direct or indirect responsible provision of drug therapy for the purpose of achieving the elimination or reduction of a patient's symptoms; arresting or slowing of a disease process; or preventing a disease.\n\nIn 2013, a European organization, the Pharmaceutical Care Network Europe (PCNE), created a new definition that could satisfy experts from a multitude of countries. After a review of existing definitions, a number of options were presented to the participants and in a one-day meeting consensus on a definition was reached.\n\n\"‘Pharmaceutical Care is the pharmacologist/pharmacist’s contribution to the care of individuals in order to optimize medicines use and improve health outcomes\"’.\n\nThe ultimate goal of pharmaceutical care (optimize medicines use and improving health outcomes) exists in all practice settings and in all cultures where medicines are used. It involves two major functions: identifying potential and manifest problems in the pharmacotherapy (DRPs), and then resolving the problems and preventing the potential problems from becoming real for the patient and his therapy outcomes. This should preferably be done together with other health care professionals and the patient through a review of the medication (and diseases) and subsequent counselling and discussions\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26970327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26970327", "title": "Ptaquiloside", "text": "Ptaquiloside\n\nPtaquiloside is a norsesquiterpene glucoside produced by bracken ferns (majorly \"Pteridium aquilinum\") during metabolism. It is identified to be the main carcinogen of the ferns and to be responsible for their biological effects, such as haemorrhagic disease and bright blindness in livestock and oesophageal, gastric cancer in humans. Ptaquiloside has unstable chemical structure and acts as a DNA alkylating agent under physiological conditions. It was first isolated and characterized by Yamada and co-workers in 1983.\nThe pure form ptaquiloside is a colorless amorphous compound. It is readily soluble in water and fairly soluble in ethyl acetate. Except in the plants, ptaquiloside has been detected in the milk and meat of affected livestock, as well as in the underground water and dry soil around bracken fern vegetation. The prevalence of ptaquiloside in daily sources along with its carcinogenic effects make it an increasing biological hazard in modern days.\n\nThe presence of ptaquiloside has been detected in a variety of ferns, including the species in the genera \"Pteridium\" (bracken), \"Pteris\", \"Microlepia\", and \"Hypolepis\". \"Pteridium aquilinum\" (commonly known as bracken fern) is the most common ptaquiloside-containing fern with a wide geographical and ecological distribution. It is present in all continents from subtropic to subarctic areas. Bracken fern is a very adaptable plant and is capable of forming dense, rapidly expanding populations in course of the first phases of the ecological succession in forest cleanings and other disturbed rural areas. Its aggressive growth, characterized by an extensive rhizome system and rapidly growing fronds, sometimes enables it to be a dominant species in certain plant communities.\nThe ptaquiloside content of bracken varies widely across species and changes with the part of the plant, the plant growing site and the collecting season. According to previous studies, the concentrations of ptaquiloside in bracken varied between 0 to 1% of the dry weight of the plant. Generally, ptaquiloside is found to occur in the highest concentrations in the young developing parts of bracken, such as the croziers and unfolding parts during the spring and early summer, while the concentrations of ptaquiloside in the rhizomes are rather low. However, studies on the concentrations of ptaquiloside in Danish bracken by Rasmussen et al. showed that the concentrations of ptaquiloside in the rhizomes were significantly higher than the previously reported values.\n\nPtaquiloside can pass into the milk produced by bracken-fed cows and sheep. In 1996, Alonso-Amelot, Smith and co-workers found that ptaquiloside was excreted in milk at a concentration of 8.6 ± 1.2% of the amount ingested by a cow from bracken, and was linearly dose-dependent. On the basis of their experiments and the assumption that a person drinks 0.5 litres of milk daily, they estimated that this person might ingest about 10 mg of ptaquiloside per day, although only some of that amount will be absorbed. Ptaquiloside can also leach from the bracken leaves into water and soil. Numerous studies have reported the presence of ptaquiloside in the underground/surface water, and soil near bracken vegetation. The degradation speed of ptaquiloside in the soil is affected by the acidity, clay content, carbon content, temperature and presumably microbioactivity. Acidic condition (pH<4) and high temperature (at least 25℃) facilitate ptaquiloside degradation, while the half-life of ptaquiloside in less acidic sandy soil is reported to be between 150 and 180 hours.\n\nMain routes that can lead to human exposure to the toxic effects of bracken fern include ingestion of the plant (particularly the croziers and young fronds), inhalation of the airborne spores, consumption of the milk and meat of affected animals, and drinking ptaquiloside contaminated water.\n\nPtaquiloside has unstable chemical structure and readily undergoes glucose liberation. The resulting ptaquilodienone is the active form of ptaquiloside and accounts for the observed biological effects. The cyclopropyl group in the dienone is highly reactive as an electrophile, not only because it is conjugated with the keto group, but because it also constitutes a cyclopropyl carbinol system, from which the facile formation of the stable non-classical cation is well-known.\n\nIn acidic conditions, ptaquiloside gradually undergoes aromatization with the elimination of D-glucose to afford ptaquilosin, and finally pterosin B. Under weakly alkaline conditions, ptaquiloside and its aglycone ptaquilosin are converted into an unstable conjugated dienone intermediate. This ptaquilodienone is the activated form of ptaquiloside and is regarded as the ultimate carcinogen of bracken ferns. Due to the constitution of a cyclopropyl carbinol system, ptaquilodienone is a strong electrophile and acts as a powerful alkylating agent that reacts directly with biological nucleophiles including amino acids, nucleosides, and nucleotides under weakly acidic conditions at room temperature (as shown in the scheme below).\nUnder physiological conditions, ptaquiloside readily liberates glucose to produce the ptaquilodienone. The alkylation of amino acids with the dienone mostly takes place at the thiol group in cysteine, glutathione and methionine. The alkylation at the carboxylate group of each amino acid, forming the corresponding ester, is also observed to a small extent based on the previously reported literature. The dienone reacts with both adenine (majorly at N-3) and guanine (majorly at N-7) residues of DNA to form the DNA adducts. The alkylation induces spontaneous depurination and cleavage of DNA at adenine base site. In a model reaction with a deoxytetranucleotide (as shown on the right), a covalent adduct is found at a guanine residue and the N-glycosidic bond breaks to release the adduct. In 1998, Prakash, Smith and co-workers showed that the alkylation of adenine by ptaquiloside in codon 61 followed by depurination and error in the DNA synthesis resulted in the activation of H-\"ras\" proto-oncogene in the ileum of calves fed bracken.\n\nBracken is known to have various biological effects, such as carcinogenicity and its well-defined syndromes in livestock and laboratory animals. Ptaquiloside is proved to be responsible for several of these biological effects, some of which are species specific.\n\nCattle that consume bracken ferns develop acute bracken poisoning and chronic bovine enzootic haematuria (BEH). The main feature of acute bracken poisoning in cattle is the depression of bone marrow activity, which gives rise to severe leucopenia (particularly of the granulocytes), thrombocytopenia, and acute haemorrhagic crisis. However, most of the researchers believe ptaquiloside is not the direct causing agent of the acute bracken fern poisoning. The main feature of haematuria is urinary bladder tumors and haematuria in cattle after prolonged exposure to bracken. Based on the extensive studies, a positive correlation is shown between the ptquiloside concentration and the incidence of BEH.\n\nSheep fed by a diet containing bracken develop acute haemorrhagic disease and bright blindness. The main features of the blindness include progressive retinal atrophy and stenosis of the blood vessels. In 1993, Yamada group proved ptaquiloside was the compound causing retinal degeneration. \n\nRats that were given a diet containing ptaquiloside for a prolonged period developed tumors in both the ileum and urinary bladder. Prakash, Smith and co-workers showed that ptaquiloside-induced carcinogenesis was initiated by the activation of the H-\"ras\" oncogene. Other non-ruminants such as pig, rabbit, and guinea pig, also develop syndromes after ingestion of ptaquiloside, which include haematuria, tumors and organ abnormities (see the diagram).\n\nBracken fern increases the oncogenic risk in humans. Epidemiological survey revealed that bracken fern consumption was positively correlated with esophageal cancer and with gastric cancer in many geographical areas of the world. In 1989, Natori and co-workers showed that ptaquiloside had clastogenic effect and caused chromosomal aberration in mammalian cells. In 2003, Santos group reported significantly increased levels of chromosomal abnormalities, such as chromatid breaks in cultured peripheral lymphocytes.\n\nThe use of bracken fern as human food is mainly a historical question. The rhizomes of these plants served as human food in Scotland during the First World War. In America (USA, Canada), Russia, China and Japan, fern is grown commercially for human use. The usual procedure that is performed before eating the plant is to pre-treat the fern with boiling water in the presence of different chemicals, such as sodium bicarbonate and wood ash, to degrade or inactivate ptaquiloside and other toxic agents. Nevertheless, some carcinogenic activity persists even after the treatment. As shown by Kamon and Hirayama, the risk of oesophageal cancer was increased approximately by 2.1 in men and 3.7 in women who regularly consume bracken in Japan. Recent researches have suggested that sulfur-containing amino acids can potentially be used under appropriate conditions as detoxifying agents for ptaquiloside and selenium supplementation can prevent as well as reverse the immunotoxic effects induced by ptaquiloside.\n\nPtaquiloside in the aqueous extract of bracken can be detected using different instrumental methods: thin-layer chromatography–densitometry (TLC-densitometry), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GCMS), and liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The diagnostic tests of ptaquiloside inside cells include gene mutation detection, immunohistochemical detection of tumor biomarkers, chromosomal aberrations, oxidative stress for EBH, PCR, real-time PCR and DNase-SISPA (sequence-independent single primer amplification).\n\nIn 1989 and 1993, Yamada and co-workers reported the first enantioselective total synthesis of both the enantiomers of ptaquilosin, the aglycone of ptaquiloside. In the first step, the menthyl ester of cyclopentane-1,2-dicarboxylic acid 1 was partially hydrolyzed to afford the monomenthyl ester, which was later alkylated with methallyl bromide in the presence of HMPA to selectively produce 2. The product 2 was then converted to the acid chloride and treated with stannic chloride to effect Friedel-Crafts acylation to give enone 3. Hydride reduction, selective oxidation of the allylic alcohol, and silylation were then performed to provide compound 4. On treatment with base and a chloroethyl sulfonium salt, a mixture of spirocyclopropanes was obtained. The minor product 5a can be isomerized with p-toluenesulfonic acid to 5b with 81% yield. Desaturation by selenylation/dehydroselenation and basic peroxide oxidation afforded epoxide 6. Mild reduction, methyl Grignard addition, and oxidation gave compound 7. Methylation of the cyclopentanone under Noyori’s condition using the TASF enolate produced a mixture of isomers. The undesired isomer 8a can be equilibriumed with potassium tert-butoxide in 81% yield to exclusively generate 8b. Reduction, deprotection, and oxidation afforded 9. On treatment with oxygen in warm ethyl acetate, the aldehyde on 9 was oxidized to the acyl radical for decarbonylation. Stereoselective trapping of the tertiary radical by oxygen gave the hydroperoxide 10. Under mild reduction, the naturally occurred (-)-ptaquilosin 11 was obtained. The Yamada’s synthesis proceeded in 20 steps with an overall yield of 2.9%. Similarly, the unnatural (+)-enantiomer of ptaquilosin was synthesized from the diastereomer of 2.\n\nMultiple synthetic studies directed towards ptaquilosin 11 have been reported since 1989. In 1994, Padwa and co-workers described the synthesis of the core skeleton of ptaquilosin by a highly convergent approach. In 1995, Cossy and co-workers reported novel routes to the racemic and optically active ptaquilosin skeleton. Their properly functionalized tricyclic compound would be of great utility for the synthesis of 11.\n"}
{"id": "533143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533143", "title": "Rhinitis", "text": "Rhinitis\n\nRhinitis, also known as coryza, is irritation and inflammation of the mucous membrane inside the nose. Common symptoms are a stuffy nose, runny nose, sneezing, and post-nasal drip.\nThe inflammation is caused by viruses, bacteria, irritants or allergens. The most common kind of rhinitis is allergic rhinitis, which is usually triggered by airborne allergens such as pollen and dander. Allergic rhinitis may cause additional symptoms, such as sneezing and nasal itching, coughing, headache, fatigue, malaise, and cognitive impairment. The allergens may also affect the eyes, causing watery, reddened, or itchy eyes and puffiness around the eyes. The inflammation results in the generation of large amounts of mucus, commonly producing a runny nose, as well as a stuffy nose and post-nasal drip. In the case of allergic rhinitis, the inflammation is caused by the degranulation of mast cells in the nose. When mast cells degranulate, they release histamine and other chemicals, starting an inflammatory process that can cause symptoms outside the nose, such as fatigue and malaise. In the case of infectious rhinitis, it may occasionally lead to pneumonia, either viral or bacterial. Sneezing also occurs in infectious rhinitis to expel bacteria and viruses from the respiratory system.\nRhinitis is very common. Allergic rhinitis is more common in some countries than others; in the United States, about 10%–30% of adults are affected annually. Mixed rhinitis (MR) refers to patients with nonallergic rhinitis and allergic rhinitis. MR is a specific rhinitis subtype. It may represent between 50 and 70% of all AR patients. However, true prevalence of MR has not been confirmed yet.\n\nRhinitis is categorized into three types (although infectious rhinitis is typically regarded as a separate clinical entity due to its transient nature): (i) infectious rhinitis includes acute and chronic bacterial infections; (ii) nonallergic (vasomotor) rhinitis includes idiopathic, hormonal, atrophic, occupational, and gustatory rhinitis, as well as rhinitis medicamentosa (drug-induced); (iii) allergic rhinitis, triggered by pollen, mold, animal dander, dust, Balsam of Peru, and other inhaled allergens.\n\nRhinitis is commonly caused by a viral or bacterial infection, including the common cold, which is caused by Rhinoviruses, Coronaviruses, and influenza viruses, others caused by adenoviruses, human parainfluenza viruses, human respiratory syncytial virus, enteroviruses other than rhinoviruses, metapneumovirus, and measles virus, or bacterial sinusitis, which is commonly caused by \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", \"Haemophilus influenzae\", and \"Moraxella catarrhalis\". Symptoms of the common cold include rhinorrhea, sneezing, sore throat (pharyngitis), cough, congestion, and slight headache.\n\nNonallergic rhinitis refers to rhinitis that is not due to an allergy. The category was formerly referred to as vasomotor rhinitis, as the first cause discovered was vasodilation due to an overactive parasympathetic nerve response. As additional causes were identified, additional types of nonallergic rhinitis were recognized. Vasomotor rhinitis is now included among these under the more general classification of nonallergic rhinitis. The diagnosis is made upon excluding allergic causes. It is an umbrella term of rhinitis of multiple causes, such as occupational (chemical), smoking, gustatory, hormonal, senile (rhinitis of the elderly), atrophic, medication-induced (including rhinitis medicamentosa), local allergic rhinitis, non-allergic rhinitis with eosinophilia syndrome (NARES) and idiopathic (vasomotor or non-allergic, non-infectious perennial allergic rhinitis (NANIPER), or non-infectious non-allergic rhinitis (NINAR).\n\nIn vasomotor rhinitis, certain nonspecific stimuli, including changes in environment (temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, or weather), airborne irritants (odors, fumes), dietary factors (spicy food, alcohol), sexual arousal, exercise, and emotional factors trigger rhinitis. There is still much to be learned about this, but it is thought that these non-allergic triggers cause dilation of the blood vessels in the lining of the nose, which results in swelling and drainage.\n\nNon-allergic rhinitis can co-exist with allergic rhinitis, and is referred to as \"mixed rhinitis\". The pathology of vasomotor rhinitis appears to involve neurogenic inflammation and is as yet not very well understood. The role of transient receptor potential ion channels on the non-neuronal nasal epithelial cells has also been suggested. Overexpression of these receptors have influence the nasal airway hyper-responsiveness to non-allergic irritant environmental stimuli (e.g., extremes of temperature, changes in osmotic or barometric pressure). Vasomotor rhinitis appears to be significantly more common in women than men, leading some researchers to believe that hormones play a role. In general, age of onset occurs after 20 years of age, in contrast to allergic rhinitis which can be developed at any age. Individuals with vasomotor rhinitis typically experience symptoms year-round, though symptoms may be exacerbated in the spring and autumn when rapid weather changes are more common. An estimated 17 million United States citizens have vasomotor rhinitis.\n\nDrinking alcohol may cause rhinitis as well as worsen asthma (see alcohol-induced respiratory reactions). In certain populations, particularly those of East Asian countries such as Japan, these reactions have a nonallergic basis. In other populations, particularly those of European descent, a genetic variant in the gene that metabolizes ethanol to acetaldehyde, ADH1B, is associated with alcohol-induced rhinitis. It is suggested that this variant metabolizes ethanol to acetaldehyde too quickly for further processing by ALDH2 and thereby leads to the accumulation of acetaldehyde and rhinitis symptoms. In these cases, alcohol-induced rhinitis may be of the \"mixed rhinitis\" type and, it seems likely, most cases of alcohol-induced rhinitis in non-Asian populations reflect true allergic response to the non-ethanol and/or contaminants in alcoholic beverages, particularly when these beverages are wines or beers. Alcohol-exacerbated rhinitis is more frequent in individuals with a history of rhinitis exacerbated by aspirin.\n\nAspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), particularly those that inhibit cyclooxygenase 1 (COX1), can worsen rhinitis and asthma symptoms in individuals with a history of either one of these diseases. These exacerbations most often appear due to NSAID hypersensitivity reactions rather than NSAID-induced allergic reactions.\n\nThe antihistamine azelastine, applied as a nasal spray, may be effective for vasomotor rhinitis. Fluticasone propionate or budesonide (both are steroids) in nostril spray form may also be used for symptomatic treatment. The antihistamine cyproheptadine is also effective, probably due to its antiserotonergic effects.\n\nA systematic review on non-allergic rhinitis reports improvement of overall function after treatment with capsaicin (the active component of chili peppers). The quality of evidence is low, however.\n\nAllergic rhinitis or hay fever may follow when an allergen such as pollen, dust, or Balsam of Peru is inhaled by an individual with a sensitized immune system, triggering antibody production. These antibodies mostly bind to mast cells, which contain histamine. When the mast cells are stimulated by an allergen, histamine (and other chemicals) are released. This causes itching, swelling, and mucus production.\n\nSymptoms vary in severity between individuals. Very sensitive individuals can experience hives or other rashes. Particulate matter in polluted air and chemicals such as chlorine and detergents, which can normally be tolerated, can greatly aggravate the condition.\n\nCharacteristic physical findings in individuals who have allergic rhinitis include conjunctival swelling and erythema, eyelid swelling, lower eyelid venous stasis, lateral crease on the nose, swollen nasal turbinates, and middle ear effusion.\n\nEven if a person has negative skin-prick, intradermal and blood tests for allergies, they may still have allergic rhinitis, from a local allergy in the nose. This is called local allergic rhinitis. Many people who were previously diagnosed with nonallergic rhinitis may actually have local allergic rhinitis.\n\nA patch test may be used to determine if a particular substance is causing the rhinitis.\n\nRhinitis medicamentosa is a form of drug-induced nonallergic rhinitis which is associated with nasal congestion brought on by the use of certain oral medications (primarily sympathomimetic amine and 2-imidazoline derivatives) and topical decongestants (e.g., oxymetazoline, phenylephrine, xylometazoline, and naphazoline nasal sprays) that constrict the blood vessels in the lining of the nose.\n\nChronic rhinitis is a form of atrophy of the mucous membrane and glands of the nose.\n\nChronic form of dryness of the mucous membranes.\n\nChronic rhinitis associated with polyps in the nasal cavity.\n\nMost prominent pathological changes observed are nasal airway epithelial metaplasia in which goblet cells replace ciliated columnar epithelial cells in the nasal mucous membrane. This results in mucin hypersecretion by goblet cells and decreased mucociliary activity. Nasal secretion are not adequately cleared with clinical manifestation of nasal congestion, sinus pressure, post-nasal dripping, and headache. Over-expression of transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels, such as TRPA1 and TRPV1, may be involved in the pathogenesis of non-allergic rhinitis.\n\nNeurogenic inflammation produced by neuropeptides released from sensory nerve endings to the airways is a proposed common mechanism of association between both allergic and non-allergic rhinitis with asthma. This may explain higher association of rhinitis with asthma developing later in life. Environmental irritants acts as modulators of airway inflammation in these contiguous airways. Development of occupational asthma is often preceded by occupational rhinitis. Among the causative agents are flours, enzymes used in processing food, latex, isocyanates, welding fumes, epoxy resins, and formaldehyde. Accordingly, prognosis of occupational asthma is contingent on early diagnosis and the adoption of protective measures for rhinitis.\n\nIn the case of infectious rhinitis, vaccination against influenza viruses, adenoviruses, measles, rubella, \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", \"Haemophilus influenzae\", diphtheria, \"Bacillus anthracis\", and \"Bordetella pertussis\" may help prevent it.\n\nThe management of rhinitis depends on the underlying cause.\n\nFor allergic rhinitis, intranasal corticosteroids are recommended. For severe symptoms intranasal antihistamines may be added.\n\nRhinitis is pronounced , while coryza is pronounced .\n\n\"Rhinitis\" comes from the Ancient Greek ῥίς \"rhis\", \"gen\".: ῥινός \"rhinos\" \"nose\". \"Coryza\" has a dubious etymology. Robert Beekes rejected an Indo-European derivation and suggested a Pre-Greek reconstruction . According to physician Andrew Wylie, \"we use the term [\"coryza\"] for a cold in the head, but the two are really synonymous. The ancient Romans advised their patients to clean their nostrils and thereby sharpen their wits.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18018626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018626", "title": "Safeguard (magazine)", "text": "Safeguard (magazine)\n\nSafeguard is a New Zealand magazine devoted to occupational health and safety. It features articles and information on managing health and safety in the workplace and is aimed at employers in all industries and at health and safety professionals. The magazine was launched as a quarterly in 1988 by the Occupational Safety and Health Service (OSH) of the Department of Labour. It was subsequently taken over by a commercial company, Colour Workshop.\" Safeguard\" is now published bi-monthly by Thomson Reuters (Auckland).\n\n"}
{"id": "39690101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39690101", "title": "Small arms ammunition pressure testing", "text": "Small arms ammunition pressure testing\n\nSmall arms ammunition pressure testing is used to establish standards for maximum average peak pressures of chamberings, as well as determining the safety of particular loads for the purposes of new load development. In metallic cartridges, peak pressure can vary based on propellant used, primers used, charge weight, projectile type, projectile seating depth, neck tension, chamber throat/leade parameters. In shotshells, the primary factors are charge weight, projectile weight, wad type, hull construction, and crimp quality.\n\nThe two modern standardized test methodologies in use are the Commission Internationale Permanente pour l'Epreuve des Armes à Feu Portatives or C.I.P. methodology, and the Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute or SAAMI methodology. The SAAMI methodology is widely used in the US, while C.I.P. is widely used in the mainly European C.I.P. member states. While both modern methodologies use piezo pressure transducer sensors to generate pressure readings, differences in the test setup mean that the same pressures will often generate very different readings depending on the method used.\n\nBecause C.I.P. and SAAMI maximum pressures are measured differently, it is important to know which methodology was used to measure peak pressures. While C.I.P. pressures are often quoted in megapascals in Wikipedia and bars by C.I.P., and SAAMI in psi, it is not unusual to see C.I.P. pressures converted to psi or vice versa.\n\nC.I.P. uses a drilled case to expose the pressure transducer directly to propellant gases. The piezo measuring device (transducer) is positioned at a distance of from the breech face when the length of the cartridge case permits that, including limits. When the length of the cartridge case is too short, pressure measurement will take place at a chambering specific defined shorter distance from the breech face depending on the dimensions of the case. The defined distance for a particular chambering is published in the TDCC data sheet of the chambering.<br>\nIn a rifle cartridge case like the .308 Winchester, the TDCC M = 25.00 value denotes the transducer must be positioned at a distance of from the breech face.<br>\nIn a relatively short pistol cartridge case like the 9×19mm Parabellum (9mm Luger in C.I.P. nomenclature), the TDCC M = 12.50 value denotes the transducer must be positioned at a distance of from the breech face.\n\nSome have incorrectly concluded that C.I.P. measures pressure at the case mouth to account for the variations from SAAMI pressure.\n\nAs transducer C.I.P. almost exclusively uses one type of Piezoelectric sensor (named \"channel sensor\") made by the Swiss company Kistler that requires drilling of the cartridge case before firing the proofing cartridge in a specially made test barrel. The Kistler ballistic pressure measurement sensor 6215 has a maximum working pressure of and is mounted recessed inside the cartridge case (the face of high-pressure sensor does not contact the cartridge case) and requires that the test cartridge case have a hole drilled in it prior to testing. The test cartridge must be inserted into the chamber in such a way that the hole in the test cartridge case lines up with a gas port hole that channels the gas pressure from the cartridge case to the face of the sensor. The measurement accuracy of the pressure measurements with 21st century high-pressure sensors is expected to be ≤ 2%.\n\nSAAMI pressure testing protocol uses a conformal Piezoelectric Quartz Transducer for pressure testing of centerfire pistol and revolver, centerfire rifle, and rimfire cartridges. The primary source of the conformal transducers is the US company PCB Piezotronics. The SAAMI pressure testing protocol uses test barrels that have a hole located in the chamber at a location specific to the cartridge. The SAAMI conformal transducer is fitted into a hole that penetrates the test barrel chamber in such a way that the transducer's face, precision machined to match curvature of the chamber wall at the mounting location a specific distance from the breech face, functions as part of the chamber wall. When the cartridge is fired the gas pressure causes the cartridge case to expand, contacting the chamber walls. The portion of the cartridge case in contact with the face of the conformal transducer exerts a pressure on the transducer which in turn generates a minute electronic impulse that is amplified and results in a reading in pounds per square inch (psi). The SAAMI conformal transducer has the benefit of not requiring a drilled cartridge case and the corresponding challenges of inserting and alignment required of drilled cartridge case. Instead it requires a simple pressure test of a sample case from the lot of cartridge cases being used in the test ammunition. This pressure test determines the gas pressure required to cause the case to expand and come in contact with the face of the conformal transducer upon firing. This measurement is referred to as the \"offset\" and makes allowance for the \"loss\" of that gas pressure prior to the cartridge case coming in contact with the transducer and generating the impulse. The offset is added to the pressure reading to arrive at the peak pressure reading. Other benefits of the SAAMI conformal transducer are: very adaptive to the high volume quality control testing demands of commercial and law enforcement ammunition production; protection of the transducer from direct exposure to the high temperature combustion gases and hence a comparatively long service life; maximum working pressure. Cartridges with the same chamber wall diameter at the mounting point of the transducer and which operate within specific chamber pressure limits may use the same transducer interchangeably reducing instrumentation costs.\n\nFor shotshell ammunition, the technical variations are easier to solve since only one type of Piezoelectric sensor (called \"tangential sensor\") is available from the PCB Piezotronics and Kistler International companies to be used without drilling without variations amongst SAAMI guidelines and C.I.P. rulings.\n\nA low cost method of gathering pressure data uses a resistive stress gauge attached to the exterior of the chamber. These systems are usually calibrated to emulate the results of an existing standardized system such as the SAAMI system, so that the results will be directly comparable. Because this system does not require a specialized test barrel, only a firearm that has an accessible external chamber wall, it is much lower cost.\n\nNATO defines 5.56mm, 7.62mm, 9mm and 12.7mm using the NATO EPVAT test methods, which includes pressure testing.\nUnlike the civilian testing methods NATO EPVAT testing procedures for the \"NATO rifle chamberings\" require the pressure sensor or transducer to be mounted ahead of the case mouth. The advantage of this mounting position is that there is no need to drill the cartridge case to mount the transducer. Drilling prior to firing is always a time consuming process (fast quality control and feedback to production is essential during the ammunition manufacturing process). The disadvantage of this mount is that the pressure rises much faster than in a drilled cartridge case. This causes high frequency oscillations of the pressure sensor (approx 200 kHz for a Kistler 6215 transducer) and this requires electronic filtering with the drawback that filtering also affects the lower harmonics where a peak is found causing a slight error in the measurement. This slight error is not always well mastered and this causes a lot of discussion about the filter order, cutoff frequency and its type (Bessel or Butterworth).\nFor the 9mm NATO EPVAT specifies that for 9×19mm Parabellum (9mm Luger in C.I.P. nomenclature and 9mm NATO in NATO nomenclature), the transducer must be positioned at the mid case position () from the breech face instead of C.I.P.'s from the breech face.\nFor NATO EPVAT testing of military firearms ammunition NATO design EPVAT test barrels with Kistler 6215 channel sensor transducers are used.\n\nThe United States Armed Forces, however, defines test procedures for 5.56mm NATO in SCATP-5.56, 7.62mm NATO in SCATP-7.62, and .45 ACP in SCATP-45. These procedures are based on the SAAMI test methodology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24207962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24207962", "title": "Swedish Workplace HIV/AIDS Programme", "text": "Swedish Workplace HIV/AIDS Programme\n\nThe Swedish Workplace HIV/AIDS Programme (SWHAP) is a joint initiative by the International Council of Swedish Industry (NIR) and the Swedish Industrial and Metalworkers’ Union (IF Metall). The SWHAP concept is based on close co-operation between the company management, the local trade union branches and workers' representatives. The programme contributes to the establishment and support to HIV and AIDS programmes at Swedish companies and their partners in Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2010, SWHAP supported close to 90 workplaces directly and reached out to 20,000 employees, yet benefiting far more if taking into account the families and surrounding communities. The programme presently operates in Botswana, Kenya, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. SWHAP is financed by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, Sida.\n\nWith an estimated 33 million people infected, the HIV and AIDS pandemic has severe humanitarian consequences as well as enormous effects on households, businesses and societies at large. HIV and AIDS is a workplace issue because it affects workers and their families, enterprises and communities which depend on them. For that reason, the workplace is one arena (out of many) to address the causes and implications of HIV and AIDS. The workplace has a vital role to play in the wider struggle to control the pandemic. Workplace programmes support prevention, expand access to care and ARV treatment, and promote non-discrimination. Globally, the International Labour Organization (ILO) has created \"Code of Practice on HIV/AIDS and the World of Work\", a document that provides practical guidelines for HIV and Aids programmes at enterprise, community, and national levels.\nSWHAP is one of several initiatives that have been taken to address HIV and AIDS at the workplace level. In particular in Sub-Saharan Africa but also in other countries both employers' federations, trade unions, specialised business coalitions on HIV/AIDS and NGOs have increasingly addressed the issue \n\nThe overall development goal of SWHAP is for employers and employees at Swedish related workplaces in the Sub-Saharan region to have created effective HIV and AIDS programmes that contribute to the development of a wider private sector response. In order to achieve this, the programme has three primary objectives: \n\n• Workplace Programmes have been initiated and improved in an expanded number of companies.\n\n• Extensive experiences from SWHAP workplace programmes and from a broadening network of shared practice have been documented and used by other actors.\n\n• SWHAP has influenced the global HIV and AIDS Workplace arena by sharing experience and information in a variety of contexts.\n\nMore specific goals include that management and employees should be stimulated to work hand in hand in the fight against HIV and AIDS, that already existing workplace programmes should be supported with fresh resources and that individual companies should be stimulated to increase similar HIV and AIDS activities. The programme also aims at developing an effective network between the participating workplaces. Likewise to spread information about HIV and AIDS to an external audience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5697585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5697585", "title": "Testicular sperm extraction", "text": "Testicular sperm extraction\n\nTesticular sperm extraction (TESE) is the process of removing a small portion of tissue from the testicle under local anesthesia and extracting the few viable sperm cells present in that tissue for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). The testicular sperm extraction process is recommended to men who cannot produce sperm by ejaculation due to azoospermia, such as that caused by primary testicular failure, congenital absence of the vas deferens or non-reconstructed vasectomy.\n\nIntracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and testicular sperm extraction (TESE) have reduced the need for donor sperm.\n\nSerum inhibin-B weakly indicates presence of sperm cells in the testes, raising chances for successfully achieving pregnancy through TESE, although the association is not very substantial, having a sensitivity of 0.65 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.56–0.74) and a specificity of 0.83 (CI: 0.64–0.93) for prediction the presence of sperm in the testes in non-obstructive azoospermia.\n\nSeminal plasma proteins TEX101 and ECM1 were recently proposed for the differential diagnosis of azoospermia forms and subtypes, and for prediction of TESE outcome.\n"}
{"id": "31287876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31287876", "title": "The Cyprus Foundation for Muscular Dystrophy Research", "text": "The Cyprus Foundation for Muscular Dystrophy Research\n\nThe Cyprus Foundation for Muscular Dystrophy Research was established in 1987 by Lady Langley and Dr. Lefkos T. Middleton. Its initial name was \"Muscular Dystrophy Research Trust of Cyprus\" and was changed to its current name in 1995.\n\nIt is the parent organization of The Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics\n\n"}
{"id": "1749550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749550", "title": "Vas-occlusive contraception", "text": "Vas-occlusive contraception\n\nVas-occlusive contraception is a form of male contraception that blocks sperm transport in the vas deferens, the tubes that carry sperm from the epididymis to the ejaculatory ducts. Various vas-occlusive contraceptive methods have been researched for human-use, with interest in both reversible and irreversible methods, with the purpose of finding a suitable alternative to vasectomy and possible hormonal contraceptive treatments that are currently being researched. Potential methods include clips, plugs, valves, and other devices.\n\nThere are numerous vas-occlusive contraceptive methods and devices that have been researched. Outlined here are a few main categories and descriptions.\n\nAn intravasal control valve is a reversible valve implanted in the vas deferens with the ability to either inhibit or permit sperm passage depending on the position of the device. Bionyx has developed a T-shaped intravasal control valve composed of gold and stainless steel for use in humans. Through rotation, a perforated ball within the T can be used to obstruct sperm flow or allow sperm flow. Skilled microsurgery is required for the ICV implant.\n\nInjection of non-toxic and sclerotic chemicals in the vas deferens can result in blockage of sperm transport due to scarring on the vas deferens wall. At least 26 different chemical combinations have been attempted to achieve sterilization. A combination of carbolic and n-butyl alpha cyanoacrylate has resulted in complete blockage of the vas deferens through adhesion to the luminal surface. This chemical combination resulted in a 96% azoospermia and a 99% pregnancy prevention eight years follow injection in humans. The scar tissue created is not always compact and successful in occluding the vas deferens, which results in the 4% azoospermia failure rate. The injection of the chemical combination of ethanol and formaldehyde also resulted in sterility in humans. However, these chemical combinations are irreversible.\n\nThere are two types of \"vas-occlusive plugs\": injectable plugs and non-injectable plugs. Injection of medical polyurethane (MPU) to form a plug in the vas deferens resulted in azoospermia in 96% of men, though these result were seen 24 months after injection. Studies on over 130 men following removal of the plug within five years showed successful restoration of fertility. The Shug, short for \"silicon plug\", is an example of a non-injectable plug, though there is little to no research on the Shug following 2008. The Shug is composed of two silicon plugs with accompanying nylon tails that attach to the vas deferens wall. It is surgically inserted into the vas deferens and must also be removed surgically. Shug human trials showed a 97% decrease in sperm motility through the vas deferens. However, plugs have been shown to have a lower efficacy rate when compared to traditional vasectomy overall.\n\nInsertion of an Intravasal Thread (IVT), also known as an Intravasal Device (IVD), in the vas deferens has been shown to inhibit sperm transport via mechanical obstruction and the removal of the IVT results in restored vas deferens patency. However, this method has differential species-specific results: in pigs, a plastic IVT had no significant effect on sperm count; in dogs, a plastic and polyethylene IVT consistently blocked sperm transport during the experimental period and removal of the device restored sperm transport after a period of two weeks; and in human subjects, a urethane-coated nylon IVT resulted in significantly reduced sperm count but could not guarantee absolute sterility at the same rate as a vasectomy.\n\nReversible inhibition of sperm under guidance (RISUG) is a non-toxic polymer gel-based contraceptive that is injected into the lumen of the vas deferens and results in infertility within 10 days following injection. RISUG is composed of styrene maleic anhydride (SMA) dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (dimethyl sulfoxide), which is believed to both partially occlude the vas deferens by coating the inner walls of the vas deferens with the polymer chemical, while also deactivating the sperm that are able to pass through the partially occluded vas deferens, thereby preventing successful fertilization. The exact mechanism of the deactivation effect on sperm is still unknown. RISUG inhibits sperm transport but allows fluid to pass through, which prevents pressure from building up in the vas deferens. RISUG has been shown successful in previous human clinical trials in India and is currently undergoing Phase III clinical trials.\n\nVasalgel was inspired by RISUG and created by the Parsemus Foundation in order to be used outside of India. Vasalgel is composed of 25% styrene-alt-maleic acid (SMA acid) dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide. The major difference between RISUG and Vasalgel is that Vasalgel is composed of SMA acid without SMA anhydride, which allows for a longer shelf-life, smaller probability of hydrolysis to an acid, and less complex production process. Vasalgel was successful in achieving azoospermia in rabbits within 36 days of injection, as well as returned vas deferens patency, and is expected to begin human trials in the United States in 2016.\n\nVas-occlusive contraception methods are expected to have similar side effects to vasectomy, such as formation of sperm antibodies, though with lower rates.\n\n\n\n"}
