{"id": "40229330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40229330", "title": "1925 Indian riots", "text": "1925 Indian riots\n\nThe 1925 Indian riots refers to the sixteen communal riots which occurred throughout British India. Reported as being among the worst were in March in Delhi, during September in Aligarh, at Arvi in the Wardha district and in Solapur.\n\nThe Aligarh riot occurred on 22 September in the United Provinces of British India (now Uttar Pradesh). Of the sixteen communal riots that occurred that year, it was counted as one of the most severe. The London Times wrote two stories on the riots. The riot, was confined to Aligarh which is in the top five of most riot prone cities in India. According to a report from the Singapore Free Press, on 24 September 1925, it had been said the rioting was caused by Mohammedan throwing stones at some Hindus during the festival of Ramlila, the Hindus retaliated and in the ensuing violence sixty Muslim men and women were injured and twelve Hindus were hospitalized.\n\nSheikh Abdullah speaking at a Muslim League conference at Aligarh likened the year-long violence to the Crusades, arguing that the most serious danger that Muslims had ever had to deal with was the current Hindu resurgence. The official number of those killed in the riot was six, four Muslims and two Hindus.\n\n"}
{"id": "54769467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54769467", "title": "Adeline Palmier Wagoner", "text": "Adeline Palmier Wagoner\n\nAdeline Palmier Wagoner (February 14, 1868 – April 21, 1929) was an American volunteer organizational leader and author. She served as president of the St. Louis, Missouri, branch of the National Plant, Flower and Fruit Guild, a charity for the poor and afflicted, and as president of the Shakespeare Tercentenary Society.\n\nAdeline Palmier Myers was born on February 1, 1868, in St. Louis, Missouri. She was the daughter of Frederick Myers and Louisa Palmier (b. 1837). Myers's mother wrote the words for \"Let Us Sing of Old Missouri\", music by Johanna Mohr, arranged by Esther M. Harkins.\n\nMyers had one sister who married Walter Dray, of Chicago. Wagoner's mother was the daughter of Michel Beaulier Palmier (1800–1851), granddaughter of Jean Beaulieu (dit Palmier), a captain of the War of 1812, and great-granddaughter of Michel Joseph Beaulieu, captain of the first regularly organized militia of Illinois, and Angelique Chauvin, daughter of a French officer of Fort de Chartres, Illinois.\n\nMyers graduated from the Central High School and the Normal High School. She was elected class historian, representative, and wrote and delivered the class poem. As a young girl, she was a prominent member of the McCullagh Dramatic Club, of which Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman was president, and Wayman C. McCreery, secretary. Myers played the principal parts with Augustus Thomas, William Beaumont Smith, Guy Lindsley, and others who laters became professionals in the theater world. She took the leading part in one of Thomas' first plays, \"The Cattle King\". She also assisted in raising money for the Young Women's Christian Association, as well as taken part in carnivals given for the benefit of hospitals, asylums, etc.\n\nAdeline Wagoner was the vice-president and recording secretary of the Chapter 0 of the P.E.O. Sisterhood, founded on January 21, 1869, as a seven-member sorority at Iowa Wesleyan College in Mount Pleasant, Iowa. It was the second sorority to be founded in the U.S.\n\nIn St. Louis, Wagoner was the president of The National Plant, Flower and Fruit Guild, whose motto was \"When we can and what we can\". The members of the guild headed by Wagoner asked for donation of fruit, flowers, magazines, delicacies for the table, clothing, etc. These articles were then distributed regularly, and particularly on anniversaries and holidays.\n\nIn 1913 the guild distributed 21,000 bunches of flowers, 36 bushels of fruit, 16 gallons of strawberries, 500 glasses of jelly, hundreds of magazines, 200 potted plants, and different articles of clothing, such as shawls, stockings, and handkerchiefs, Christmas boxes and bags by the hundreds, and a great quantity of tobacco. In the summer of 1913 they distributed seeds to children to plant back-yard gardens, open-lot gardens, and window boxes. Eight prizes were awarded to the best arranged window boxes.\n\nFlorence Putnam was in charge of the Flowers department. Some of the other women who were most active in assisting Wagoner, and who hold the important offices in the local organization, were Mrs. Frederick Kreismann, Mrs. James McCourtney, Mrs. H.H. Wagoner (Sophronia Wilson Wagoner), Mrs. H.H. Evans, Mrs. U.L. Clark, Mrs. William Huppert, Mrs. Relle Forse, Mrs. Hugh Romanoski, Mrs. A.A. Flanders, Mrs. E.J. Kramer and Mrs. J. Rossman.\n\nThe Guild did also volunteering work at the Poor House, later City Infirmary or St. Mary's Infirmary (currently a NRHP place in Downtown St. Louis): they brought tobacco, pencils, pads of paper, shoe strings, knives, etc., for the men; in the woman's department they put potted plants by each bed, and a little basket of sewing materials with a box of cake, candy and fruit, also quilt pieces and little ornaments for the hair and dress; for the consumptive ward, where the most critical patients were kept, they brough sunshine and angel cakes; vegetable plants for the gardens were donated by the City Workhouse gardens.\n\nWagoner was the president of the Shakespeare Tercentenary Society, based at the Planters Hotel. The honorary president was Dr. Denton J. Snider, a Shakespeare scholar. Originally a study club, dedicated to a consideration of Snider's Hegelian interpretation of Shakespeare, it became, after Wagoner took over the management, more and more social in orientation. In 1916 Wagoner curated the exhibition \"Shakespeare Tercentenary Celebration\" at the Scruggs-Vandervoort-Barney auditorium, St. Louis, of which she also curated the catalogue: curious, instructive and beautiful objects pertaining to Shakespeare and the stage. She was also vice-president of the National Shakespeare Federation.\n\nOn December 6, 1917, \"World News\" published \"Little Orphant Annie's Tale of the War\" by Wagoner, dedicated to the National Council of Defense.\n\nDuring World War I, Wagoner took part in the Liberty bond campaign and volunteered for the Red Cross. In 1916 Wagoner received a letter from Elisabeth Bass, secretary of the National Woman's Liberty Loan Committee, extending congratulations and thanks for her efforts.\n\nOn August 10, 1921, Wagoner chaired the celebration commemorating Missouri's admission to the Union and was secretary of the Lafayette Celebration Committee.\n\nIn 1921 Wagoner contributed the essay \"A man for all ages\" for the commemorative meeting of the early Saint Louis movement in philosophy, psychology, literature, art and education, in honor of Dr. Denton J. Snider's 80th birthday, held on January 14 and 15, 1921, at the Vandervoort's Music Hall, St. Louis.\n\nIn 1890 Adeline Myers married Harry Epply Wagoner, insurance broker and president of the Wagoner Mercantile Company, a mail order house, son of Henry Hoover Wagoner (1824–1906) and Sophronia L. Wilson. They had one son, Stanley Blewett (September 9, 1891 – April 16, 1949, buried at Bellefontaine Cemetery), a graduate of Yale College (B.A. 1913), where he had been most prominent during the four years, having won many gold medals in all Eastern college meets. She died on April 21, 1929. After her death, Harry Wagoner remarried with Caroline U. Hoffman, a housekeeper of the American Hotel.\n\nWagoner won several prizes as a golf player at Glen Echo Country Club and Algonquin Golf Club. She was also an expert swimmer, diver, and equestrienne. She was winning in her manner, and kindly disposed to all.\n\nAngelique Chauvin Beaulieu was born in 1742, educated at Quebec, and in 1760 married Michel Beaulieu, making her home in Cahokia, a French-controlled town in Illinois Country, where she became a social leader on account of her superior education and accomplishments. Illinois Governor Reynolds said of her, \"She was the director-general in moral and medical matters; the peacemaker of the village, whose society was sought by old and young for their improvement.\" In 1914, Wagoner wrote \"Madame Beaulieu: A Colonial Dame\".\n"}
{"id": "22188701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22188701", "title": "Alvarez case", "text": "Alvarez case\n\nThe Alvarez incest case was uncovered late March 2009 when 59-year-old Arcedio Alvarez was arrested in Mariquita, Colombia, accused of imprisoning and sexually abusing his daughter Alba Nidia Alvarez over a period of 25 years, beginning from when she was 9 years old. The daughter also gave birth to 14 children, 6 of whom died. Alvarez has been named \"The monster of Mariquita\" by national press.\n\nArcedio Alvarez Quintero (born in 1950) was a convicted child molester and sex offender from Mariquita, Colombia. Throughout his years in Mariquita he practiced farming with his family, becoming a farmer himself as an adult.\n\nIn 2009, Alvarez Quintero was prosecuted for molesting and abusing his biological daughter for years, resulting in 14 children, 6 of whom died due to malnutrition and lack of proper care. Alvarez Quintero claimed that his crimes were part of “God’s plan” and furthermore denied any biological relationship to the victim, but this was later disproved after confirmation of his biological relationship to the victim. Alvarez Quintero became known as the Monster of Mariquita, and the Colombia Fritzl, after the infamous Austrian murderer, rapist, and child molester, Josef Fritzl.\n\nAfter the death of Alvarez Quintero’s wife, he began to abuse his 5-year-old daughter Nidia. The rapes are believed to have started when she was about 7 years old, and continued for roughly 26 years, resulting in 14 pregnancies, the first when Nidia was just 13 years old. Of the 14 children to come from this abuse, 6 of them died before the prosecution due to denial of medical care by Alvarez Quintero, and of the 8 surviving children, the oldest was 19 years old at the time, and the youngest was only a few months old. Alvarez Quintero also never let his daughter leave their home during the time of the abuse and would often tell her that their relationship was simply “God’s will”. As the children grew, Alvarez Quintero began to assault his young daughters and may have been grooming his sons to do the same.\n\nArcedio Alvarez’s victims included his daughter Alba Nidia, 35 at the time of the trial, and her children by him, his grandchildren. Six of their children died due to lack of needed medical attention when Alvarez refused to take them to the hospital. Alba Nidia herself was abused from age 5; although Alvarez reportedly taught her to read and write, he also convinced her that his abuse was acceptable. Alba Nidia grew up poor in a small home in central Colombian Little information exists about her education, but she did mention in one of the reports that her father taught her how to read and write Her mother died when she was young. Her father abused and had sexual relation lying to her and telling her what they were doing was right since she was 5 after her mother died. Alba Nidia was the only daughter of Arcedio Alvarez (Monster of Mariquita). Her children were their father’s grandchildren as well.\n\nArcedio Alvarez was caught and arrested in March 2009 and became a convicted child molester after being charged with the heinous crimes against his daughter, whose sexual abuse and mental scarring had gone on for over 30 years. After Alba came forward in 2009 about what had been happening to her ever since she was young, investigation revealed that most of the town where they lived knew of the suspicious things occurring and never said anything about it. The investigation began when councilwoman Gilma Jimenez, brought to light the horrible conditions Alba and her children were living in with her father and how poor their health was. When this first came to light, Arcedio repeatedly claimed that Alba was only an adopted daughter and that they had agreed to their strange relationship. However, several lab tests proved that Alba Nidia was undoubtedly Arcedio’s daughter.\n\nDuring the investigation, Alvarez needed police protection when attending his court dates due to the severity of his crimes and the hatred the community felt toward him. Alvarez continued to plead not guilty, claiming that Alba was adopted and that they held no biological connection at all. This case and his crimes led to changes in the Colombian law requiring those who have raped children to go to prison for life. Alvarez was found guilty of all his crimes against his daughter and her children, and was eventually sentenced to a minimum of fifteen years in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "16689466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16689466", "title": "Asian Indians in Belize", "text": "Asian Indians in Belize\n\nAsian Indians, also known as East Indians, are citizens of Belize of Indian ancestry. The community made up 3.9% of the population of Belize in 2010.\n\nAsian Indians began arriving in Belize in the 1880s as part of the Indian indenture system set up by the British Indian government after slavery was abolished. Initially coming in as indentured, many of them stayed on to work the sugar plantations and were joined by other Indian immigrants. Indians are spread out over many villages and towns primarily in the Corozal and Toledo districts and live in reasonably compact rural communities. They are fairly well integrated into the Belizean population through intermarriage. However, they are still identifiable through their physiognomy and are known as 'Hindus'. These set of Indians were almost entirely composed of Bhojpuris, Awadhis, Rajasthanis, and other Hindustani (Hindi-Urdu)- speaking people of the Hindustani Belt in North India. A minority of indentured laborers were from South India.\n\nIn 1907, the Canadian Government made an unsuccessful attempt to transfer Indian independence activists residing in the province of British Columbia to Belize (then known as British Honduras). A Canadian delegation led by the chief clerk of the Canadian Ministry of the Interior Harkin, and a small Indian delegation including Teja Singh traveled to British Honduras in November 1907 to determine if conditions were suitable for the move. Upon his return to Canada, Teja Singh stated that Indians were being sent to Honduras for slave-labour and claimed that Canadian officials had attempted to bribe the Indian delegation to secure a positive report. The Canadian government blamed Teja Singh's statements for the failure of the proposed transfer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37521681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37521681", "title": "Australians in Japan", "text": "Australians in Japan\n\nThere are approixmately 9,900 resident Australians in Japan. \n\nRichard Court, current Australian ambassador to Japan\n\n"}
{"id": "6382196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6382196", "title": "Bomb the Suburbs", "text": "Bomb the Suburbs\n\nBomb The Suburbs is a collection of essays by William Upski Wimsatt, a former graffiti tagger. It is a mix of storytelling, journalism, photojournalism and original research, on a broad range of topics, such as suburban sprawl, hip hop culture, youth activism, graffiti, and Chicago. It was photoedited by artist Margarita Certeza Garcia, and published in 1994 by Subway & Elevated Press, a division of Soft Skull Press, with , and republished in 2000. The first edition had 3,000 copies.\n\n\"Bomb The Suburbs\" led to subsequent books and political activism. In an essay in his \"No More Prisons\" compilation, entitled \"In Defense of Rich Kids\", Wimsatt responded to classist criticism of his affluent background: \n"}
{"id": "21551803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21551803", "title": "Casa-Grande &amp; Senzala", "text": "Casa-Grande &amp; Senzala\n\nPublished in 1933, Casa-Grande e Senzala () is a book by Gilberto Freyre, about the formation of Brazilian society. The \"casa-grande\" (\"big house\") refers to the slave owner's residence on a sugarcane plantation, where whole towns were owned and managed by one man. The \"senzala\" (\"slave quarters\") refers to the dwellings of the black working class, where they originally worked as slaves, and later as servants.\n\nThe book deals with race/class separation and miscegenation and is generally considered a classic of modern cultural anthropology. In Freyre's opinion, the hierarchy imposed by those in the Casa-Grande was an expression of a patriarchal society. In this book the author refutes the idea that Brazilians were an \"inferior race\" because of race-mixing. He points to the positive elements that permeated Brazilian culture because of miscegenation (especially among the Portuguese, Indians, and Africans). Portugal, like Brazil, is described as being culturally and racially influenced by \"an energetic infusion of Moorish and Negro blood, the effects of which persist to this day in the Portuguese people and the Portuguese character\".\n"}
{"id": "31479334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31479334", "title": "Charles W. Bullard", "text": "Charles W. Bullard\n\nCharles W. Bullard was an American criminal. Known as Piano Charley, he became a notorious safecracker. His name derived from his skill as a musician. \n\nOne of his criminal partnerships was with Adam Worth. In 1869, together with Fredericka Mandelbaum and others, Worth helped Bullard to escape from prison where he was serving a sentence for stealing $100,000 worth of goods from the Hudson River Railway Express. For the escape, Mandelbaum and her associates rented an office across the street from the prison and tunneled into Bullard's cell, bribing two guards to keep them quiet. \n\nLater that year, on November 20, Bullard and Worth worked together to rob the vault of Boylston National Bank in Boston. They escaped with an estimated $200,000. However, aware of the intense police interest in the crime, they were forced to move to England and live under false names.\n"}
{"id": "28358268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28358268", "title": "Church attendance", "text": "Church attendance\n\nChurch attendance is a central religious practice for many Christians; some Christian denominations, such as the Catholic Church require church attendance on the Lord's Day (Sunday); the Westminster Confession of Faith is held by the Reformed Churches and teaches first-day Sabbatarianism, thus proclaiming the duty of public worship in keeping with the Ten Commandments. Similarly, The General Rules of the Methodist Church also requires \"attending upon all the ordinances of God\" including \"the public worship of God\". Until 1791, the government of the United Kingdom required attendance at church services of the Church of England (the mother Church of the Anglican Communion and a state Church) at least twice a year. To this end, all major branches of Christianity, however, encourage church attendance, with one Christian apostolate providing the following biblical imperatives: \n\nThe Lutheran Christian theologian stated that church attendance is the \"foundation for the Christian life\" as \"the Christian Bible and the sacraments provide the framework for the faith\"; he also states that it is important for believers because it aids in the prevention of backsliding, as well as offers \"the company of other believers\".\n\nAccording to data from the European Social Survey in 2012 around a third of European Christians say they attend services once a month or more. Conversely about two-thirds of Latin American Christians and according to the World Values Survey about 90% of African Christians (in Ghana, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa and Zimbabwe) said they attended church regularly. The Gallup International, a self-reporting survey conducted via telephone, indicates that 37% of Americans report that they attend religious services weekly or near-weekly in 2013. The Pew Research Center stated, however, that there is a \"sharp increase in church attendance around the two most significant Christian holidays, Christmas and Easter.\" As such, on Christmas (a Principal Feast in the Anglican Communion, a holy day of obligation in the Catholic Church and a Festival in the Lutheran Churches), LifeWay Research found that \"six out of 10 Americans typically attend church\". Countries that hold or have held a policy of state atheism have actively discouraged church attendance, often persecuting Christians who continued to worship.\n\nThe Gallup International, a self-reporting survey conducted via telephone, indicates that 37% of Americans report that they attend religious services weekly or near-weekly in 2013. Self-reporting surveys conducted online indicate substantially lower weekly attendance rates, and methods of measurement that don't rely on self-reporting estimate even lower rates; for instance, a 2005 study published in the Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion found that just 22% of Americans attend services weekly.). This compares to other countries claims such as 15% of French citizens, 10% of UK citizens, 8.8% of Australian citizens and 5.6% of Dutch citizens. In the U.K., in 2011, an average once-a-week attendance in Anglican churches went down by 0.3% compared with 2012, thus exhibiting a stabilizing trend. Previously, starting from 2000, an average rate of weekly church attendance in Britain was dropping down 1% annually. In 2013, the Pew Research Center reported that 37% of all Americans attended church on a weekly basis. In its turn, Gallup estimated the once-a-week church attendance of the Americans in 2013 as 39%.\n\nBased on 1990-1991 data, it was estimated that the country with the highest rate of church attendance in the world was Nigeria (89%) and with the lowest - the Soviet Union (2%). Nigeria's data was notable, as Nigeria is very religiously diverse - the population is 50.1% Muslim and 48.2% Christian. The state authorities in the USSR, which dissolved in 1991, discouraged church construction; they had a hostile relationship with traditional organized religions and instead promoted Marxist-Leninist ideology, which espoused state atheism. Approximations of the current church attendance in the modern Russian Federation vary from 3-4% to 7% attending on weekly basis.\n\nA survey commissioned by the \"Época Magazine\" in 2005 showed that 29% of Brazilians attend church weekly, and indicated that it is lesser than in the United States but higher than in Western Europe and Japan, indeed showing that contrary to the local popular belief, Brazilians of the time could indeed be regarded as a religious people even in practice (though it is ponderable that the growth of the population declaring to be solely irreligious in nationwide censuses grew about 100% between 2000 and 2010, and 200% between 2000 and 2013, from 4% to 12%, and general secularization also grew among the portion of the population that remained religious).\n\nIn a 2006, \"Financial Times (FT)/Harris Poll\" conducted online surveyed 12,507 adults over 16 years old in the United States (2,010 U.S. adults were surveyed) and five European countries (France, Italy, Germany, Great Britain and Spain). The survey found that only 26% of those polled attended religious services \"every week or more often\", 9% went \"once or twice a month\", 21% went \"a few times a year\", 3% went \"once a year\", 22% went \"less than once a year\", and 18% never attend religious services. \"Harris Interactive\" stated that the magnitude of errors cannot be estimated due to sampling errors and non-response bias. A previous nearly identical survey by Harris in 2003 found that only 26% of those surveyed attended religious services \"every week or more often\", 11% went \"once or twice a month\" 19% went \"a few times a year\", 4% went \"once a year\", 16% went \"less than once a year\", and 25% never attend religious services.\n\nCalculating the church's average weekend attendance is important since it determines the size of a given church. For example, in the U.S., an average weekend attendance of more than 2,000 people separates a mega church from a large church, and an average weekend attendance between 51 and 300 people defines the large church; while a small church is the church with an attendance lower than 50 people. (Alternative definitions, such as house church, simple church, intentional community, were proposed by the Barna Group, an American private consulting firm.) A narrow definition of a regular church attendee can be viewed as a synonym for a Sunday service visitation, while a broad definition, names as a regular attendee a person who comes to church during three out of eight weekends.\n\nThe frequency at which Christians attend church services varies greatly around the world. In some countries weekly attendance at religious services is common among Christians, while in others weekly attendance is rare. The following attendance statistics are mostly based on self-reporting surveys and may not accurately reflect real attendance figures.\nThe following attendance statistics are taken from the 2004 Gallup report, based on self-reporting telephone surveys. However, it is unclear whether the survey was solely of Christians in the respective country or the entire population (including non-Christians).\nA study by the European Social Survey conducted in 2008 found these rates of respondents \"never\" attending religious service (excluding special occasions):\n\nThe frequency by which Christians attend church services also vary on a state-by-state basis in the United States of America.\n\nChurch attendance remains stronger among older demographics, and more common for women. There is evidence that links church attendance with health benefits. The Pew Research Center, which conducts the extensive research and information program \"Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life\", has linked regular church attendance with happiness. Several studies associated church attendance with decreased risk of Alzheimer's disease. Research by Rita W. Law and David A. Sbarra demonstrated that \"church attendance was found to have a protective effect against the emergence of mood problems among older adults.\" Graham et al. discovered that \"consistent pattern of lower systolic and diastolic blood pressures among frequent church attenders was found compared to that of infrequent attenders which was not due to the effects of age, obesity, cigarette smoking, or socioeconomic status.\" Oman D et al. found that \"infrequent (never or less than weekly) attenders had significantly higher rates of circulatory, cancer, digestive, and respiratory mortality (p < 0.05), but not mortality due to external causes.\" With respect to students, Glanville et al. found \"that religious attendance promotes higher intergenerational closure, friendship networks with higher educational resources and norms, and extracurricular participation.\" Research conducted at the Harvard School of Public Health found \"that regularly attending church services together reduces a couple’s risk of divorce by a remarkable 47 percent\".\n\nA 2005 European Union survey found that religious belief increased with age and was higher among women, those who were leaning towards right-wing politics, and those reflecting more upon philosophical and ethical issues. In particular, the Iona Institute documented increasing church attendance in Ireland, despite sex-abuse scandals that plagued the Catholic Church. Some suggest the rise is due to the effects of the economic recession.\n\nResearch shows that there is a correlation between church attendance and the level of education. For instance, in a Pew Research study from 1996, approximately 34% of high school dropouts went to church on a typical Sunday, while 44% of those with a college degree or higher did. 48% of married individuals attended church on a typical Sunday, compared with 29% of divorced and 31% of never-married individuals. While it is likely that the well-educated and married might over-report their church attendance more often, these findings nevertheless demonstrate that they have maintained a stronger church-going identity than other Americans. A number of studies have been undertaken to examine the topic of religiosity and intelligence and religiosity and education. Studies also indicate that there is a higher rate of church attendance among married couples.\n\nSeveral research studies in the USA and Europe found that church attendance practices of parents, especially fathers, can be highly influential in forming the future church attendance practices of their children.\n\nIn Switzerland, the Fertility and Family Survey was commissioned by the Federal Statistical Office (Switzerland) to enable Switzerland to take part in this international project launched by the UNECE Population Activities Unit. The survey was conducted between October 1994 and May 1995, with the results being published in 2000 by the Council of Europe. The results are representative of Switzerland's permanent resident population aged 20–49 and presented in the table below.\n\nPractice of religion according to practice of parents (%)\nA non-practicing mother with a regular father will see a minimum of two-thirds of her children ending up at church. In contrast, a non-practicing father with a regular mother will see two-thirds of his children not attending church. If his wife is similarly irregular that figure rises to 80 percent.\n\nAn American study found similar results on the impact of fathers:\n\nAn unrelated survey in the USA also found fathers to be highly influential in church attendance. It found that if a child is the first person in a household to become a Christian, there is a 3.5% probability everyone else in the household will follow. If the mother is the first to become a Christian, there is a 17% probability everyone else in the household will follow. However, when the father is first, there is a 93% probability everyone else in the household will follow.\n\nChurch attendance in advanced industrial societies is in gradual general decline with people shifting from weekly to monthly or holiday attendance. Sociologists have attributed this trend to a number of reasons, starting from a simple boredom during services and lack of motivation, to generational incompatibility of belief systems and social changes attributed to modernity. Research across 65 different nations showed that out of 20 advanced industrial countries - 16 demonstrated a declining rate of monthly church attendance.\n\nAn article published in the \"Christianity Today Magazine\" emphasized that at least in America church attendance since the 1990s has remained stable. Indeed, 50% of Americans replied that God is very important in their lives, comparing with 40% of Irish, 28% of Canadians, 26% of Spaniards, 21% of Australians, and 10% of the French.\n\nThe percent of Americans who regularly attend religious services has fluctuated over time, but presently is at a low point. In Gallup Poll surveys, the yearly aggregate of those who answer \"yes\" to the question \"Did you, yourself, happen to attend church or synagogue in the last seven days, or not?\" was 36% in 2014, 2015, and 2016. This is a very long-running Gallup question: \"In 1939, when Gallup first asked this question, 41% said 'yes.' That percentage dropped to 37% in 1940 and rose to 39% in 1950. It continued to climb, reaching as high as 49% at multiple points in the 1950s. Attendance then settled down to figures around 40% for decades, before dropping to 36%\" beginning in 2014.\n\nThe decline in church attendance is more pronounced in developed European countries, where it is suggested that the secular culture overrides interest in religion. In Poland Church attendance has declined from more than 50% in 1979 to 40% in 2012.\n\nIn the early 1990s, American sociologists Kirk Hadaway, Penny Marler, and Mark Chaves found that weekly attendance at Protestant and Catholic churches in one rural county in Ohio was only about 20%, whereas self-reported church attendance was 36%. The following studies confirmed a long-suspected gap between actual and self-reporting church attendance. The researchers have been wary of accusing over-reporters of dishonesty, as they found in the study that those who over-report do so mainly to maintain perceptions of themselves as \"churched\" Americans, not because they are afraid to reveal to the interviewer that they are \"bad Christians.\" The findings point to a bigger issue as many people in the world may be over-reporting church attendance because of their self-perception and identity as churchgoing people, indicating a certain psychological aspect to the over-reporting of church attendance. Although surveys of church attendance are aimed to study religious behavior, many respondents view them as questions about their identity. This is especially true among Americans who consider themselves \"regular churchgoers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55981540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55981540", "title": "Church of Hakeem", "text": "Church of Hakeem\n\nThe Church of Hakeem is a new religion of Christian inspiration, based in California, that was founded by the preacher Hakeem Abdul Rasheed. His doctrine states that the money earned comes from God as a result of a religious spiritual awakening. Its practice consists in delivering, within 70 to 90 days, donations increased up to 400% percent. In the congregations, the pastor Hakeem exhorted the faithful to stop having doubts and negative thoughts. The leaders of the church committed the crime of diverting the funds, and were judged by the american justice. Members and contributors recovered the funds. The founder was charged with fraud charges by mail to request more funds. He was also sentenced to five days in prison, for failing to comply with the order to give the information requested. This decision was paralyzed on the basis of the right to privacy and the right of association.\n"}
{"id": "47577641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47577641", "title": "Comparison of United States incarceration rate with other countries", "text": "Comparison of United States incarceration rate with other countries\n\nThe United States has the highest prison and jail population (2,121,600 in adult facilities in 2016), and the highest incarceration rate in the world (655 per 100,000 population in 2016). According to the World Prison Population List (11th edition) there were around 10.35 million people in penal institutions worldwide in 2015. The US had 2,173,800 prisoners in adult facilities in 2015. That means the US held 21.0% of the world's prisoners in 2015, even though the US represented only around 4.4 percent of the world's population in 2015.\n\nComparing other English-speaking developed countries, whereas the incarceration rate of the US is 655 per 100,000 population of all ages, the incarceration rate of Canada is 114 per 100,000 (as of 2015), England and Wales is 146 per 100,000 (as of 2016), and Australia is 160 per 100,000 (as of 2016). Comparing other developed countries, the rate of Spain is 133 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Greece is 89 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Norway is 73 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Netherlands is 69 per 100,000 (as of 2014), and Japan is 48 per 100,000 (as of 2014).\n\nComparing other countries with similar percentages of immigrants, Germany has a rate of 78 per 100,000 (as of 2017), Italy is 96 per 100,000 (as of 2018), and Saudi Arabia is 197 per 100,000 (as of 2017). Comparing other countries with a zero tolerance policy for illegal drugs, the rate of Russia is 411 per 100,000 (as of 2018), Kazakhstan is 194 per 100,000 (as of 2018), Singapore is 201 per 100,000 (as of 2017), and Sweden is 57 per 100,000 (as of 2016).\n\nThe incarceration rate of the People's Republic of China varies depending on sources and measures. According to the World Prison Brief, the rate for only sentenced prisoners is 118 per 100,000 (as of 2015). The rate for prisoners including estimations for the number of pre-trial detainees and those in administrative detention is 164 per 100,000 (as of 2015). In a 2010 interview Harry Wu, a U.S.-based human rights activist and ex-Chinese labor camp prisoner, estimates that \"in the last 60 years, more than 40–50 million people\" were in Chinese labor camps, but that period includes the mass incarcerations of the 1950s or the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) and is not representative of modern China.\n\nTotal US incarceration (prisons and jails) peaked in 2008. On January 1, 2008 more than 1 in 100 adults in the United States were in prison or jail. Total correctional population (prison, jail, probation, parole) peaked in 2007. If all prisoners are counted (including juvenile, territorial, ICE, Indian country, and military), then in 2008 the USA had around 24.7% of the world's 9.8 million prisoners.\n\nA 2008 \"New York Times\" article, said that \"it is the length of sentences that truly distinguishes American prison policy. Indeed, the mere number of sentences imposed here would not place the United States at the top of the incarceration lists. If lists were compiled based on annual admissions to prison per capita, several European countries would outpace the United States. But American prison stays are much longer, so the total incarceration rate is higher.\"\n\nIn the United States, women make up more than one tenth of the whole prison population. In most countries, the proportion of female inmates to the larger population is closer to one in twenty. Australia is the exception where the rate of female imprisonment increased from 9.2 percent in 1991 to 15.3 percent in 1999.\n\nIn addition, the United States has significant racial disparities in rates of incarceration. According to Michelle Alexander, the United States \"imprisons a larger percentage of its black population than South Africa did at the height of apartheid\". The black imprisonment rate of South Africa could not have come close to today’s American rate simply due to limited room. Notably, there’s something of an international theme in countries comparing themselves to apartheid South Africa. There were instances where Australian journalists were drawing the same contrast relative to rates of imprisonment in their country. In the Huffington Post piece \"Mass Incarceration's Failure\", attorney Antonio Moore states \"The incarceration rate for young black men ages 20 to 39, is nearly 10,000 per 100,000. To give context, during the racial discrimination of apartheid in South Africa, the prison rate for black male South Africans, rose to 851 per 100,000.\"\n\nA major contributor to the high incarceration rates is the length of the prison sentences in the United States. One of the criticisms of the United States system is that it has much longer sentences than any other part of the world. The typical mandatory sentence for a first-time drug offense in federal court is five or ten years, compared to other developed countries around the world where a first time offense would warrant at most 6 months in jail. Mandatory sentencing prohibits judges from using their discretion and forces them to place longer sentences on nonviolent offenses than they normally would do.\n\nEven though there are other countries that have a higher rate of committing inmates to prison annually, the fact that the United States keeps their prisoners longer causes the total incarceration rate to become higher. To give an example, the average burglary sentence in the United States is 16 months, compared to 5 months in Canada and 7 months in England.\n\nThe US incarceration rate peaked in 2008 when about 1 in 100 US adults was behind bars. This incarceration rate exceeded the average incarceration levels in the Soviet Union during the existence of the infamous Gulag system, when the Soviet Union's population reached 168 million, and 1.2 to 1.5 million people were in the Gulag prison camps and colonies (i.e. about 0.8 imprisoned per 100 USSR residents, according to numbers from Anne Applebaum and Steven Rosefielde). Some of the latter Soviet Union's yearly incarceration rates from 1934 to 1953, however, likely were the world's historically highest for a modern age country. In \"The New Yorker\" article \"The Caging of America\" (2012), Adam Gopnik writes: \"Over all, there are now more people under 'correctional supervision' in America—more than six million—than were in the Gulag under Stalin at its height.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29298523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29298523", "title": "Cook and Date", "text": "Cook and Date\n\nCookandDate is a Canadian company that offers dating events for singles. Founded by Cristina Mucciardi in 2007, the evening's format has guests interact by cooking several courses and a sit-down meal.\n\nWhile having originated in Montreal, CookandDate events also take place in Toronto and New York City. \nIn 2010, CookandDate announced a string of singles events to be hosted by celebrity chefs. Its first featured Chuck Hughes, host of the cable cooking show \"Chuck's Day Off\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42295806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42295806", "title": "Corruption in Cameroon", "text": "Corruption in Cameroon\n\nCorruption in Cameroon has been called \"Cameroon's worst-kept secret\" by Thomson Reuters, and Cameroon has had \"persistent problems with corruption\" according to BBC News. The Corruption Perceptions Index (2014) by Transparency International ranked Cameroon 136 out of 175 countries and found that the police are seen by Cameroonians as the most corrupt institution in the government. \n\nThe government of Cameroon has taken some steps addressing the problem of corruption in the country: in order to increase transparency in its oil sector, Cameroon joined the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative in late 2013.\n\nCameroon also witnessed the prosecution of corruption committed by a former prime minister, Ephraim Inoni, who was sentenced to 20 years in prison in 2013 for embezzlement. Several high corruption risk sectors, such as customs and public procurement, pose obstacles for doing business in Cameroon.\n\nDavid Wallechinsky ranked President of Cameroon Paul Biya with three others (Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo of Equatorial Guinea, and King Mswati of Swaziland) as the most corrupt dictators in the world. He describes Cameroon's electoral process in these terms: \"Every few years, Biya stages an election to justify his continuing reign, but these elections have no credibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "53643469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53643469", "title": "Drug disposal", "text": "Drug disposal\n\nDrug disposal is the discarding of drugs. Individuals commonly dispose of unused drugs that remain after the end of medical treatment. Health care organizations dispose of drugs on a larger scale for a range of reasons, including having leftover drugs after treating patients and discarding of expired drugs. Failure to properly dispose of drugs creates opportunities for others (of whom the drug is unintended) to take them inappropriately. Inappropriate disposal of drugs can also cause drug pollution.\n\nPeople dispose of drugs in various ways; even organizations with expertise on drugs may give inconsistent information to consumers about drug disposal.\n\nMedication waste includes both hazardous and non-hazardous waste, controlled substances, and expired pharmaceuticals.\n\nMedication waste can come from multiple levels in the drug's lifespan. First, it can come from production factories from where they were created. This includes unwanted pharmaceutical ingredients and materials that can no longer be used in the drug manufacturing process. Second, medication waste can be generated from healthcare facilities including hospitals, clinics, and pharmacies. Medication waste from this source can be from over prescribing of drugs from healthcare providers, hospital labs, expired drugs, opened drug containers and partially used medications. Furthermore, these wastes can include materials, such as syringes, vials, IV bags, and tubing that contain excess drugs or contaminated in the process of handling hazardous pharmaceuticals, such as chemotherapy drugs. Some states have regulations that require healthcare facilities to destroy unused medications. Lastly, pharmaceutical waste can come from excessive consumption of over-the-counter medications from patients.\n\nSometimes normal use of a drug can result in waste. For example, when someone uses a dermal patch, after the patch is used, it will still retain significant potency, necessitating safe disposal.\n\nMedical authorities advise that consumers not store any drug that they would not have a reason at present to possess. Storing drugs creates a possibility that someone will use them inappropriately and suffer harm. Accidental ingestion of medications prescribed for another individual is a leading source of poisonings in American households. According to Poison Control Centers in the United States, in 2007 approximately 23,783 of 255,732 cases involving inappropriate medication use were associated with inadvertent exposure. 5,000 of these cases involved children under the age of 6 years old. Due to the variations in the way children's bodies metabolize drugs, medication poisoning in children can be extremely fatal. \n\nThe most obvious way for individuals to dispose of drugs is through the household waste management service. Experts advise checking other options first, because simply discarding drugs with other trash creates the possibility that someone could use them and be harmed. Medical authorities recommend against disposing of drugs by passing them on to other consumers.\n\nThe best source of local advice will be the community pharmacy. Pharmacies already handle drugs and will recommend what sort of disposal method is most appropriate. Many pharmacies will collect drugs and dispose of them as a community service. Some regions have special government services that offer to take back and dispose of drugs. Sometimes, either a pharmacy or government service will provide a way to mail drugs to a special drug disposal facility. If there are no other options and one must put drugs into the trash, a recommended safer way to do so is by mixing the drug with unattractive trash. Putting pills into the toilet can cause drug pollution, but this might be justified as a way to quickly disposing of dangerous drugs.\n\nThere have been many attempts in the United States to encourage consumers to bring their leftover drugs to disposal centers. Some examples of disposal programs include having a special event at a community center with prior advertisements for people to bring their drugs to the event, or otherwise educating individuals and concerned organizations about the correct way to dispose of drugs. One study reviewing the efficacy of these programs found that their impact was too low to have the desired result of decreasing community access to leftover drugs.\n\nDisposal of large amounts of drugs can cause drug pollution and negatively impact the environment. Organizations might choose to dispose of large amounts of drugs by returning them to the manufacturer, putting them in landfills, using Incineration, or dumping the drugs into sewers.\n\nDrugs associated with substance abuse and prohibited drugs receive special attention in their disposal. The police might seize such drugs as contraband, and then have to destroy them. In other cases, some legal drugs create risks for abuse and need more attention in disposal than drugs that are not attractive for abuse. It is challenging for governments to discuss how to properly dispose of controversial drugs.\n\nOne small regional study in the United States reported the outcomes of a public health program to take back unused opioids. This study found that individuals who returned opioids tended to return more than half of what they were prescribed, which could be an indication that these people had twice as much medication as they wanted. The study was too limited to form a general conclusion, but it provided information to guide further discussion and research on whether people would participate in opioid take back programs, what sorts of drugs are more likely to be returned, and how much people would return.\n\nThere is a list of medications in which the U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommends to be disposed of via flushing down the toilet if consumers are unable to take these drugs to a drug take-back program. These medications contain controlled substances that are dangerous to pets and other people in the home and should be disposed of immediately when no longer needed. Examples include Dilaudid (hydromorphone hydrochloride) tablets, fentanyl patches and morphine sulfate oral solution. These products should immediately flush due to high potential for abuse and overdose.\n\nIn 2001, the European Parliament released a Directive regarding the disposal practices of medicinal products. Directive 2001/83/EC stated that the outer packaging of medications needed to include special disposal precautions. In 2004, the EU put out another directive that further clarified the 2001 directive and called for establishment of medication collection protocols and information regarding specific collection protocols for the state or country be placed on the packaging.\nAs outlined in National Health Service SI 2014/349: The National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 2013, local pharmacies are obligated to take back unused and unwanted medications generated in the home. Per these same regulations, pharmacies are responsible for sorting the medications and returning them to the NHS.\n\nCanada has no specific nationwide drug take back or disposal policy, but most provinces have individual plans.Most pharmacies in Canada can take back unused and expired medications any day of the year.\n\nIn the United States, used prescriptions are serious safety concerns because they can be accidentally ingested, overdosed or diverted for illegal use.\n\nTo address these concerns, the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) created National Prescription Drug Take Back Days that occurs twice annually in April and October. These Take Back Days are part of a mission to create safe medication disposal sites, prevent drug diversion or transfer of the prescribed drug for illicit use, and provide education for the public. In April 2017, the 13th National Drug Take Back Day included 5,498 collection sites across the country and 450 tons unused or expired prescription medicines were collected. Additionally, The National Association of Drug Diversion Investigators (NADDI) sponsors a website to locate Rx Drug Drop Boxes for safe medication disposal outside of National Prescription Drug Take Back Days.\n\nThe \"Secure and Responsible Drug Disposal Act of 2010\" was proposed to amend the \"Controlled Substances Act\" created in 1970 which prohibits the disposal of controlled substances unless a member of law enforcement has authorization from the DEA to directly receive and dispose of the controlled substance. This bars drug take back programs from being able to receive and dispose of controlled medications for members of the public, which in turn can lead to the potential misuse of these drugs. Misuse of prescription medications has been a growing epidemic, with deaths from opioids quadrupling since 1999. It was shown that in 2006, about 1/3 of new prescription drug abusers were 12-17 year olds. With these statistics, Congress decided to take an active role in trying to make drug take back programs more readily available. Therefore, the \"Secure and Responsible Drug Disposal Act of 2010\" was created to allow the Attorney General permission in creating new policies to provide citizens “convenient and safe” disposal of their unwanted medications to authorized people or facilities. Congress created this act with a goal of preventing drug diversion and environmental harm/pollution by these drugs.\n\nIn addition to the drug disposal of 2012, other national agencies have also promoted the use of the drug take back programs. In 2011, White House announced the first national Prescription Abuse Prevention Plan. The Prescription Abuse Prevention Plan expanded support to the prescription drug disposal programs and decreased the supply of unused prescription drugs. The Environmental Protection Agency also encouraged the use of prescription drug disposal programs with guidelines for household disposal of medication and recommendations on the incineration of the household pharmaceutical product. The American Pharmacist Association and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America also partnered with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to raise awareness for consumers to properly dispose medication. The campaign encouraged consumer to not flush unused medications or pour them down the sink. The campaign also recognized pharmacists' role to inform consumers of the different disposal techniques and which medications are appropriate for flushing.\n\nAlameda County was the first county in the United States to make the manufacturer pay for safe disposal of pharmaceutical waste. This ordinance required companies that manufacture drugs sold and distributed in Alameda County must operate and pay for a \"Product Stewardship Program.\" Examples of these programs include a drug kiosk or mail-back program and volunteer collectors, such as law enforcement and pharmacies. Due to this program 8 other counties in California adopted similar programs, including San Mateo, Santa Barbara, Santa Clara, Marin, Los Angeles, Santa Cruz, Sonoma, Contra Costa, San Luis Obispo, and Tehama Counties. \n\nIn California, entities including pharmacies in retail and hospital settings may host drug take-back programs as long as they follow requirements under Article 9.1 of Division 17 of Title 16 of the California Code of Regulations. These pharmacies are required to register with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and notify the Board of Pharmacy and DEA within 30 days of starting or stopping a program. These pharmacies must have collection receptacles located in authorized locations and have liners that are certified to meet American Society for Testing Materials standards. The pharmacies must also follow protocols like accepting prescription drugs to be sent back to an authorized DEA destruction site and no employee can be part of the program if they have a history with controlled substance-related felonies. The pharmacy may not sort, count, or review the unwanted prescription medications once collected and they are required to report tampering of any receptacles to the Board of Pharmacy within 14 days. It is important to note that these pharmaceutical take-back programs only take prescription medications, not drug samples or medical waste.\n\nOn September 30, 2018, California passed SB 212: Solid waste: pharmaceutical and sharps waste stewardship. Similar to the Alameda County Ordinance, this is a statewide drug and needle program funded by manufacturers or distributors. The bill requires that these entities create their own stewardship program or be part of a stewardship program, which will be approved by CalRecycle. The bill mandates a minimum of 5 collection sites per county or if the county is larger it requires 1 per 50,000 people. They also require retail pharmacies to serve as an \"authorized collector.\" Authorized collectors serve their counties in one location or 15% of store locations in the county, depending which is greater. The bill will begin January 2019, with approvals by CalRecyle completed and implementation of the programs started January 2021. \n\n"}
{"id": "1291656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291656", "title": "Early modern period", "text": "Early modern period\n\nThe early modern period of modern history follows the late Middle Ages of the post-classical era. Although the chronological limits of the period are open to debate, the timeframe spans the period after the late portion of the post-classical age (c. 1500), known as the Middle Ages, through the beginning of the Age of Revolutions (c. 1800) and is variously demarcated by historians as beginning with the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, with the Renaissance period, and with the Age of Discovery (especially with the voyages of Christopher Columbus beginning in 1492, but also with Vasco da Gama's discovery of the sea route to the East in 1498), and ending around the French Revolution in 1789.\n\nHistorians in recent decades have argued that from a worldwide standpoint, the most important feature of the early modern period was its globalizing character. The period witnessed the exploration and colonization of the Americas and the rise of sustained contacts between previously isolated parts of the globe. The historical powers became involved in global trade, as the exchange of goods, plants, animals, and food crops extended to the Old World and the New World. The Columbian Exchange greatly affected the human environment.\n\nNew economies and institutions emerged, becoming more sophisticated and globally articulated over the course of the early modern period. This process began in the medieval North Italian city-states, particularly Genoa, Venice, and Milan. The early modern period also included the rise of the dominance of the economic theory of mercantilism. The European colonization of the Americas, Asia, and Africa occurred during the 15th to 19th centuries, and spread Christianity around the world.\n\nThe early modern trends in various regions of the world represented a shift away from medieval modes of organization, politically and economically. Feudalism declined in Europe, while the period also included the Protestant Reformation, the disastrous Thirty Years' War, the Commercial Revolution, the European colonization of the Americas, and the Golden Age of Piracy.\n\nBy the 16th century the economy under the Ming Dynasty was stimulated by trade with the Portuguese, the Spanish, and the Dutch, while Japan engaged in the Nanban trade after the arrival of the first European Portuguese during the Azuchi-Momoyama period.\n\nOther notable trends of the early modern period include the development of experimental science, accelerated travel due to improvements in mapping and ship design, increasingly rapid technological progress, secularized civic politics, and the emergence of nation states. Historians typically date the end of the early modern period when the French Revolution of the 1790s began the \"late modern\" period.\n\nAround the beginning of the Ming dynasty (1368—1644), China was leading the world in mathematics as well as science. However, Europe soon caught up to China's scientific and mathematical achievements and surpassed them. The reason behind China's lag in advancement has speculated by many scholars. A historian named Colin Ronan claims that though there is no one specific answer, there must be a connection between China's urgency for new discoveries being weaker than Europe's and China's inability to capitalize on its early advantages. Ronan believes that China's Confucian bureaucracy and traditions led to China not having a scientific revolution, which led China to have fewer scientists who would break the existing orthodoxies, like Galileo Galilei. Despite inventing gunpowder in the 9th century, it was in Europe that the classic handheld firearms, matchlocks, were invented, with evidence of use around the 1480s. China was using the matchlocks by 1540, after the Portuguese brought their matchlocks to Japan in the early 1500s. China during the Ming Dynasty established a bureau to maintain its calendar. The bureau was necessary because the calendars were linked to celestial phenomena and that needs regular maintenance because twelve lunar months have 344 or 355 days, so occasional leap months have to be added in order to maintain 365 days per year.\n\nIn the 16th century the Ming dynasty flourished over maritime trade with the Portuguese, Spanish and Dutch Empires. The trade brought in a massive amount of silver, which China at the time needed desperately. Prior to China's global trade, its economy ran on a paper money. However, in the 14th century, China's paper money system suffered a crisis, and by the mid-15th century, crashed. The silver imports helped fill the void left by the broken paper money system, which helps explain why the value of silver in China was twice as high as the value of silver in Spain during the end of the 16th century.\n\nThe Ming Dynasty suffered an economic collapse in the seventeenth-century because of heavy inflation of silver, and the European trade depression of the 1620s. The economy sunk to the point where all of China's trading partner cut ties with them: Philip IV restricted shipments of exports from Acapulco, the Japanese cut off all trade with Macau, and the Dutch severed connections between Gao and Macau.\n\nThe damage to the economy was compounded by the effects on agriculture of the incipient Little Ice Age, natural calamities, crop failure and sudden epidemics. The ensuing breakdown of authority and people's livelihoods allowed rebel leaders, such as Li Zicheng, to challenge Ming authority.\n\nThe Ming Dynasty fell around 1644 to the Qing Dynasty, the last ruling dynasty of China, ruling from 1644 to 1912 (with a brief, abortive restoration in 1917). During its reign, the Qing Dynasty became highly integrated with Chinese culture.\n\nFollowing contact with the Portuguese on Tanegashima Isle in 1543, the Japanese adopted several of the technologies and cultural practices of their visitors, whether in the military area (the arquebus, European-style cuirasses, European ships), religion (Christianity), decorative art, language (integration to Japanese of a Western vocabulary) and culinary: the Portuguese introduced tempura and valuable refined sugar.\n\nThe Azuchi–Momoyama period saw the political unification that preceded the establishment of the Tokugawa shogunate. Although a start date of 1573 is often given, in more broad terms, the period begins with Oda Nobunaga's entry into Kyoto in 1568, when he led his army to the imperial capital in order to install Ashikaga Yoshiaki as the 15th, and ultimately final, shōgun of the Ashikaga shogunate, and it lasts until the coming to power of Tokugawa Ieyasu after his victory over supporters of the Toyotomi clan at the Battle of Sekigahara in 1600.\n\nThe Edo period from 1600 to 1868 characterized early modern Japan. The Tokugawa shogunate was a feudalist regime of Japan established by Tokugawa Ieyasu and ruled by the \"shōguns\" of the Tokugawa clan. The period gets its name from the capital city, Edo, now called Tokyo. The Tokugawa shogunate ruled from Edo Castle from 1603 until 1868, when it was abolished during the Meiji Restoration in the late Edo period (often called the Late Tokugawa shogunate).\n\nIn 1392, General Yi Seong-gye established the Joseon dynasty (1392–1910) with a largely bloodless coup. Yi Seong-gye moved the capital of Korea to the location of modern-day Seoul. The dynasty was heavily influenced by Confucianism, which also played a large role to shaping Korea's strong cultural identity. King Sejong the Great (1418–1450), one of the only two kings in Korea's history to earn the title of great in their posthumous titles, reclaimed Korean territory to the north and created the Korean alphabet, Hangeul.\n\nDuring the end of the 16th century, Korea was invaded twice by Japan, first in 1592 and again in 1597. Japan failed both times due to Admiral Yi Sun-sin, Korea's revered naval genius, who lead the Korean Navy using advanced metal clad ships called turtle ships. Because the ships were armed with cannons, Admiral Yi's navy was able to demolish the Japanese invading fleets, destroying hundreds of ships in Japan's second invasion. During the 17th century, Korea was invaded again, this time by the Manchurian, who would later take over China as the Qing Dynasty. In 1637, King Injo was forced to surrender to the Qing forces, and was ordered to send princesses as concubine to the Qing Prince Dorgon.\n\nAfter invasions from Manchuria, Joseon experienced nearly 200 years of peace. However, whatever power the kingdom recovered during its isolation further waned as the 18th century came to a close, and Korea was faced with internal strife, power struggles, international pressure and rebellions at home. The Joseon dynasty declined rapidly in the late 19th century.\n\nOn the Indian subcontinent, the Lodi dynasty ruled over the Delhi Sultanate during its last phase. The dynasty founded by Bahlul Lodi ruled from 1451 to 1526. The dynasty's last ruler, Ibrahim Lodhi, was defeated and killed by Babur in the first Battle of Panipat.\n\nThe Vijayanagara Empire was based in the Deccan Plateau, but its power was diminished after a major military defeat in 1565 by the Deccan sultanates. The empire is named after its capital city of Vijayanagara.\n\nThe rise of the Great Mughal Empire is usually dated from 1526, around the end of the Middle Ages. It was an Islamic Persianate imperial power that ruled most of the area as Hindustan by the late 17th and the early 18th centuries. The empire dominated South and Southwestern Asia.\n\nAt the start of the modern era, the Spice Route between India and China crossed Majapahit, an archipelagic empire based on the island of Java. It was the last of the major Hindu empires of Maritime Southeast Asia and is considered one of the greatest states in Indonesian history. Its influence extended to states in Sumatra, the Malay Peninsula, Borneo and eastern Indonesia, but the effectiveness of the influence is the subject of debate. Majapahit found itself unable to control the rising power of the Sultanate of Malacca, which grew to stretch from Muslim Malay settlements of Bukit (Phuket), Setol (Satun), Pantai ni (Pattani) bordering Ayutthaya Kingdom of Siam (Thailand) in the north to Sumatra in the southwest. The Portuguese invaded its capital in 1511 and in 1528 the Sultanate of Johor was established by a Malaccan prince to succeed Malacca.\n\nDuring the early modern era, the Ottoman state enjoyed an expansion and consolidation of power, leading to a \"Pax Ottomana\". This was perhaps the golden age of the Ottoman Empire. The Ottomans expanded southwest into North Africa while battling with the re-emergent Persian Shi'a Safavid Empire to the east.\n\nIn the Saracen sphere, the Ottomans seized Egypt in 1517 and established the regencies of Algeria, Tunisia, and Tripoli (between 1519 and 1551), Morocco remaining an independent Arabized Berber state under the Sharifan dynasty.\n\nIn the Ethiopian Highlands, the Solomonic dynasty established itself in the 13th century. Claiming direct descent from the old Axumite royal house, the Solomonic ruled the region well into modern history. In the 16th century, Shewa and the rest of Abyssinia were conquered by the forces of Ahmed Gurey of the Adal Sultanate to the northwest. The conquest of the area by the Oromo ended in the contraction of both Adal and Abyssinia, changing regional dynamics for centuries to come.\n\nThe Ajuran Empire, which was one of the largest and strongest empires in the Horn of Africa, began to decline in the 17th century, and several powerful successor states came to prominence. The Geledi Sultanate, established by Ibrahim Adeer, was a notable successor of the Ajuran Sultanate. The Sultanate reached its apex under the successive reigns of Sultan Yusuf Mahamud Ibrahim (reigned 1798 to 1848), who successfully consolidated Geledi power during the Bardera wars, and Sultan Ahmed Yusuf, who forced regional powers such as the Omani Empire to pay tribute. The Majeerteen Sultanate was a Somali Sultanate in the Horn of Africa. Ruled by King Osman Mahamuud during its golden age, it controlled much of northern and central Somalia in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The polity had all of the organs of an integrated modern state and maintained a robust trading network. Along with the Sultanate of Hobyo ruled by Sultan Yusuf Ali Kenadid, the Majeerteen Sultanate was eventually annexed into Italian Somaliland in the early 20th century, following the military Campaign of the Sultanates.\n\nThe Songhai Empire took control of the trans-Saharan trade at the beginning of the modern era. It seized Timbuktu in 1468 and Jenne in 1473, building the regime on trade revenues and the cooperation of Muslim merchants. The empire eventually made Islam the official religion, built mosques, and brought Muslim scholars to Gao.\n\nAround the beginning of the modern era, the Benin Kingdom was an independent trading power in the southeastern coastline of West Africa, blocking the access of other inland nations to the coastal ports. Benin may have housed 100,000 inhabitants at its height, spreading over twenty-five square kilometres, enclosed by three concentric rings of earthworks. By the late 15th century Benin was in contact with Portugal. At its apogee in the 16th and 17th centuries, Benin encompassed parts of southeastern Yorubaland and the western Igbo.\n\nThe Safavid Empire was a great Shia Persianate empire after the Islamic conquest of Persia and established of Islam, marking an important point in the history of Islam in the east. The Safavid dynasty was founded about 1501. From their base in Ardabil, the Safavids established control over all of Persia and reasserted the Iranian identity of the region, thus becoming the first native dynasty since the Sassanids to establish a unified Iranian state. Problematic for the Safavids was the powerful Ottoman Empire. The Ottomans, a Sunni dynasty, fought several campaigns against the Safavids.\n\nWhat fueled the growth of Safavid economy was its position between the burgeoning civilizations of Europe to its west and Islamic Central Asia to its east and north. The Silk Road, which led from Europe to East Asia, revived in the 16th century. Leaders also supported direct sea trade with Europe, particularly England and The Netherlands, which sought Persian carpet, silk, and textiles. Other exports were horses, goat hair, pearls, and an inedible bitter almond hadam-talka used as a spice in India. The main imports were spice, textiles (woolens from Europe, cotton from Gujarat), metals, coffee, and sugar. Despite their demise in 1722, the Safavids left their mark by establishing and spreading Shi'a Islam in major parts of the Caucasus and West Asia.\n\nIn the 16th to early 18th centuries, Central Asia was under the rule of Uzbeks, and the far eastern portions were ruled by the local Pashtuns. Between the 15th and 16th centuries, various nomadic tribes arrived from the steppes, including the Kipchaks, Naymans, Kanglis, Khongirad, and Manguds. These groups were led by Muhammad Shaybani, who was the Khan of the Uzbeks.\n\nThe lineage of the Afghan Pashtuns stretches back to the Hotaki dynasty. Following Muslim Arab and Turkic conquests, Pashtun \"ghazis\" (warriors for the faith) invaded and conquered much of northern India during the Lodhi dynasty and Suri dynasty. Pashtun forces also invaded Persia, and the opposing forces were defeated in the Battle of Gulnabad. The Pashtuns later formed the Durrani Empire.\n\nThis era in Western Europe is referred to as the early modern European period and includes the Protestant Reformation, the European wars of religion, the Age of Discovery and the beginning of European colonialism, the rise of strong centralized governments, the beginnings of recognizable nation-states that are the direct antecedents of today's states, the Age of Enlightenment, and from the associated scientific advances the first phase of the Industrial Revolution. The emergence of cultural and political dominance of the Western world during this period is known as the Great Divergence.\n\nThe early modern period is taken to end with the French Revolution, the Napoleonic Wars, and the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire at the Congress of Vienna.\nAt the end of the early modern period, the British and Russian empires had emerged as world powers from the multipolar contest of colonial empires, while the three great Asian empires of the early modern period, Ottoman Turkey, Mughal India and Qing China, all entered a period of stagnation or decline.\n\nThe expression \"early modern\" is at times incorrectly used as a substitute for the term Renaissance. However, \"Renaissance\" is properly used in relation to a diverse series of cultural developments that occurred over several hundred years in many different parts of Europe — especially central and northern Italy — and it spans the transition from late medieval civilization to the opening of the early modern period. In the visual arts and architecture, the term 'early modern' is not a common designation as the Renaissance period is clearly distinct from what came later. Only in the study of literature is the early modern period a standard designation. European music of the period is generally divided between Renaissance and Baroque. Similarly, philosophy is divided between Renaissance philosophy and the Enlightenment. In other fields, there is far more continuity through the period such as warfare and science.\n\nWhen gunpowder was introduced to Europe, it was immediately used almost exclusively in weapons and explosives for warfare. Though it was invented in China, gunpowder arrived in Europe already formulated for military use and European countries took advantage of it and were the first to create the classic firearms. The advances made in gunpowder and firearms was directly tied to the decline in the use of plate armor because of the inability of the armor to protect one from bullets.\n\nIn the early modern period, the Holy Roman Empire was a union of territories in Central Europe under a Holy Roman Emperor the first of which was Otto I. The last was Francis II, who abdicated and dissolved the Empire in 1806 during the Napoleonic Wars. Despite its name, for much of its history the Empire did not include Rome within its borders.\n\nThe Renaissance was a cultural movement that spanned roughly the 14th to the 17th century, beginning in Italy in the Late Middle Ages and later spreading to the rest of Europe. The term is also used more loosely to refer to the historic era, but since the changes of the Renaissance were not uniform across Europe, this is a general use of the term. As a cultural movement, it encompassed a rebellion of learning based on classical sources, the development of linear perspective in painting, and gradual but widespread educational reform.\n\nJohannes Gutenberg is credited as the first European to use movable type printing, around 1439, and as the global inventor of the mechanical printing press. Nicolaus Copernicus formulated a comprehensive heliocentric cosmology (1543), which displaced the Earth from the center of the universe. His book, \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (\"On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres\") began modern astronomy and sparked the Scientific Revolution. Another notable individual was Machiavelli, an Italian political philosopher, considered a founder of modern political science. Machiavelli is most famous for a short political treatise, The Prince, a work of realist political theory.\n\nAmong the notable royalty of the time, Charles the Bold, known as \"Charles the Bold (or Rash)\" to his enemies, he was the last Valois Duke of Burgundy, and his early death was a pivotal, if under-recognized, moment in European history. Charles has often been regarded as the last representative of the feudal spirit — a man who possessed no other quality than a blind bravery. Upon his death, Charles left an unmarried nineteen-year-old daughter, Mary of Burgundy, as his heir. Her marriage would have enormous implications for the political balance of Europe. The Habsburg Emperor secured the match for his son, the future Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, with the aid of Mary's stepmother, Margaret. In 1477, the territory of the Duchy of Burgundy was annexed by France. In the same year, Mary married Maximilian, Archduke of Austria, giving the Habsburgs control of the remainder of the Burgundian Inheritance.\n\nClaude de Lorraine was the first Duke of Guise, from 1528 to his death. Claude distinguished himself at the battle of Marignano (1515), and was long in recovering from the twenty-two wounds he received in the battle. In 1521, he fought at Fuenterrabia, and Louise of Savoy ascribed the capture of the place to his efforts. In 1523 he became governor of Champagne and Burgundy, after defeating at Neufchâteau the imperial troops who had invaded this province. In 1525 he destroyed the Anabaptist peasant army, which was overrunning Lorraine, at Lupstein, near Saverne (Zabern). On the return of Francis I from captivity in 1528, Claude was made Duke of Guise in the peerage of France, though up to this time only princes of the royal house had held the title of duke and peer of France. The Guises, as cadets of the sovereign house of Lorraine and descendants of the house of Anjou, claimed precedence of the Bourbon princes of Condé and Conti.\n\nThe 3rd Duke of Alba was a nobleman of importance in the early modern period, nicknamed the \"Iron Duke\" by the Protestants of the Low Countries because of his harsh rule and cruelty. Tales of atrocities committed during his military operations in Flanders became part of Dutch and English folklore, forming a central component of the Black Legend.\n\nIn England, Henry VIII was the King of England and a significant figure in the history of the English monarchy. Although in the greater part of his reign he brutally suppressed the influence of the Protestant Reformation in England, a movement having some roots with John Wycliffe in the 14th century, he is more popularly known for his political struggles with Rome. These struggles ultimately led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and establishing himself as the Supreme Head of the Church of England. Though Henry reportedly became a Protestant on his death-bed, he advocated Catholic ceremony and doctrine throughout his life. Royal support for the English Reformation began with his heirs, the devout Edward VI and the renowned Elizabeth I, whilst daughter Mary I temporarily reinstated papal authority over England. Henry also oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542. He is also noted for his six wives, two of whom were beheaded.\n\nChristianity was challenged at the beginning of the modern period with the fall of Constantinople in 1453 and later by various movements to reform the church (including Lutheran, Zwinglian, and Calvinist), followed by the Counter Reformation.\n\nThe Hussite Crusades involved the military actions against and amongst the followers of Jan Hus in Bohemia ending ultimately with the Battle of Grotniki. Also known as the Hussite Wars, they were arguably the first European war in which hand-held gunpowder weapons such as muskets made a decisive contribution. The Taborite faction of the Hussite warriors were basically infantry, and their many defeats of larger armies with heavily armored knights helped effect the infantry revolution. In totality, the Hussite Crusades were inconclusive.\n\nThe last crusade, the \"Crusade of 1456\", was organized to counter the expanding Ottoman Empire and lift the Siege of Belgrade, and was led by John Hunyadi and Giovanni da Capistrano. The siege eventually escalated into a major battle, during which Hunyadi led a sudden counterattack that overran the Turkish camp, ultimately compelling the wounded Sultan Mehmet II to lift the siege and retreat. The siege of Belgrade has been characterized as having \"decided the fate of Christendom\". The noon bell ordered by Pope Callixtus III commemorates the victory throughout the Christian world to this day.\n\nNearly a hundred years later, the Peace of Augsburg officially ended the idea that all Christians could be united under one church. The principle of \"cuius regio, eius religio\" (\"whose the region is, [it shall have] his religion\") established the religious, political and geographic divisions of Christianity, and this was established in international law with the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, which legally ended the concept of a single Christian hegemony, i.e. the \"One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic Church\" of the Nicene Creed. Each government determined the religion of their own state. Christians living in states where their denomination was \"not\" the established church were guaranteed the right to practice their faith in public during allotted hours and in private at their will. With the Treaty of Westphalia, the Wars of Religion came to an end, and in the Treaty of Utrecht of 1713 the concept of the sovereign national state was born. The \"Corpus Christianum\" has since existed with the modern idea of a tolerant and diverse society consisting of many different communities.\n\nThe modern Inquisition refers to any one of several institutions charged with trying and convicting heretics (or other offenders against canon law) within the Catholic Church. In the modern era, the first manifestation was the Spanish Inquisition of 1478 to 1834. The Inquisition prosecuted individuals accused of a wide array of crimes related to heresy, including sorcery, blasphemy, Judaizing and witchcraft, as well for censorship of printed literature. Because of its objective — combating heresy — the Inquisition had jurisdiction only over baptized members of the Church (which, however, encompassed the vast majority of the population in Catholic countries). Secular courts could still try non-Christians for blasphemy (most of the witch trials went through secular courts).\n\nThe Protestant Reformation and rise of modernity in the early 16th century entailed the start of a series of changes in the \"Corpus Christianum\". Martin Luther challenged the Catholic Church with his Ninety-Five Theses, generally accepted as the beginning of the Reformation, a Christian reform movement in Europe, though precursors such as Jan Hus predate him. The Protestant movement of the 16th century occurred under the protection of the Electorate of Saxony, an independent hereditary electorate of the Holy Roman Empire. The Elector Frederick III established a university at Wittenberg in 1502. The Augustinian monk Martin Luther became professor of philosophy there in 1508. At the same time, he became one of the preachers at the castle church of Wittenberg.\n\nOn 31 October 1517, Luther posted his \"Ninety-Five Theses\" on the door of the All Saints' Church, which served as a notice board for university-related announcements. These were points for debate that criticized the Church and the Pope. The most controversial points centered on the practice of selling indulgences (especially by Johann Tetzel) and the Church's policy on purgatory. The reform movement soon split along certain doctrinal lines. Religious disagreements between various leading figures led to the emergence of rival Protestant churches. The most important denominations to emerge directly from the Reformation were the Lutherans, and the Reformed/Calvinists/Presbyterians. The process of reform had decidedly different causes and effects in other countries. In England, where it gave rise to Anglicanism, the period became known as the English Reformation. Subsequent Protestant denominations generally trace their roots back to the initial reforming movements.\n\nThe Diet of Worms in 1521, presided by Emperor Charles V, declared Martin Luther a heretic and an outlaw (although Charles V was more preoccupied with maintaining his vast empire than with arresting Luther). As a result of Charles V's distractions in East Europe and in Spain, he agreed through the Diet of Speyer in 1526 to allow German princes to effectively decide themselves whether to enforce the Edict of Worms or not, for the time being. After returning to the empire, Charles V attended the Diet of Augsburg in 1530 to order all Protestants in the empire to revert to Catholicism. In response, the Protestant territories in and around Germany formed the Schmalkaldic League to fight against the Catholic Holy Roman Empire. Charles V left again to handle the advance of the Ottoman Turks. He returned in 1547 to launch a military campaign against the Schmalkaldic League and to issue an imperial law requiring all Protestants to return to Catholic practices (with a few superficial concessions to Protestant practices). Warfare ended when Charles V relented in the Peace of Passau (1552) and in the Peace of Augsburg (1555), which formalized the law that the rulers of a land decide its religion.\n\nOf the late Inquisitions in the modern era, there were two different manifestations:\nThis Portuguese inquisition was a local analogue of the more famous Spanish Inquisition. The Roman Inquisition covered most of the Italian peninsula as well as Malta and also existed in isolated pockets of papal jurisdiction in other parts of Europe, including Avignon.\n\nThe Catholic Reformation began in 1545 when the Council of Trent was called in reaction to the \"Protestant Rebellion\". The idea was to reform the state of worldliness and disarray that had befallen some of the clergy of the Church, while reaffirming the spiritual authority of the Catholic Church and its position as the sole true Church of Christ on Earth. The effort sought to prevent further damage to the Church and her faithful at the hands of the newly formed Protestant denominations.\n\nIn development of the Third Rome ideas, the Grand Duke Ivan IV (the \"Awesome\" or \"the Terrible\") was officially crowned the first Tsar (\"Caesar\") of Russia in 1547. The Tsar promulgated a new code of laws (Sudebnik of 1550), established the first Russian feudal representative body (Zemsky Sobor) and introduced local self-management into the rural regions. During his long reign, Ivan IV nearly doubled the already large Russian territory by annexing the three Tatar khanates (parts of disintegrated Golden Horde): Kazan and Astrakhan along the Volga River, and Sibirean Khanate in South Western Siberia. Thus by the end of the 16th century Russia was transformed into a multiethnic, multiconfessional and transcontinental state.\n\nThe Age of Discovery was a period from the early 15th century and continuing into the early 17th century, during which European ships traveled around the world to search for new trading routes and partners to feed burgeoning capitalism in Europe. They also were in search of trading goods such as gold, silver and spices. In the process, Europeans encountered peoples and mapped lands previously unknown to them. This factor in the early European modern period was a globalizing character; the 'discovery' of the Americas and the rise of sustained contacts between previously isolated parts of the globe was an important historical event.\n\nThe search for new routes was based on the fact that the Silk Road was controlled by the Ottoman Empire, which was an impediment to European commercial interests, and other Eastern trade routes were not available to the Europeans due to Muslim control. The ability to outflank the Muslim states of North Africa was seen as crucial to European survival. At the same time, the Iberians learnt much from their Arab neighbors. The northwestern region of Eurasia has a very long coastline, and has arguably been more influenced by its \"maritime history\" than any other continent. Europe is uniquely situated between several navigable seas, and intersected by navigable rivers running into them in a way that greatly facilitated the influence of maritime traffic and commerce. In the maritime history of Europe, the carrack and caravel both incorporated the lateen sail that made ships far more maneuverable. By translating the Arab versions of lost ancient Greek geographical works into Latin, European navigators acquired a deeper knowledge of the shape of Africa and Asia.\n\nMercantilism was the dominant school of economic thought throughout the early modern period (from the 16th to the 18th century). This led to some of the first instances of significant government intervention and control over the economy, and it was during this period that much of the modern capitalist system was established. Internationally, mercantilism encouraged the many European wars of the period and fueled European imperialism. Belief in mercantilism began to fade in the late 18th century, as the arguments of Adam Smith and the other classical economists won out.\n\nThe Commercial Revolution was a period of economic expansion, colonialism, and mercantilism that lasted from approximately the 16th century until the early 18th century. Beginning with the Crusades, Europeans rediscovered spices, silks, and other commodities rare in Europe. This development created a new desire for trade, which expanded in the second half of the Middle Ages. European nations, through voyages of discovery, were looking for new trade routes in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which allowed the European powers to build vast, new international trade networks. Nations also sought new sources of wealth. To deal with this new-found wealth, new economic theories and practices were created. Because of competing national interest, nations had the desire for increased world power through their colonial empires. The Commercial Revolution is marked by an increase in general commerce, and in the growth of non-manufacturing pursuits, such as banking, insurance, and investing.\n\nIn the Old World, the most desired trading goods were gold, silver, and spices. Western Europeans used the compass, new sailing ship technologies, new maps, and advances in astronomy to seek a viable trade route to Asia for valuable spices that Mediterranean powers could not contest.\n\nIn terms of shipping advances, the most important developments were the creation of the carrack and caravel designs in Portugal. These vessels evolved from medieval European designs from the North Sea and both the Christian and Islamic Mediterranean. They were the first ships that could leave the relatively placid and calm Mediterranean, Baltic or North Sea and sail safely on the open Atlantic.\n\nWhen the carrack and then the caravel were developed in Iberia, European thoughts returned to the fabled East. These explorations have a number of causes. Monetarists believe the main reason the Age of Exploration began was because of a severe shortage of bullion in Europe. The European economy was dependent on gold and silver currency, but low domestic supplies had plunged much of Europe into a recession. Another factor was the centuries-long conflict between the Iberians and the Muslims to the south.\n\nThe Golden Age of Piracy is a designation given to one or more outbursts of piracy in the early modern period, spanning from the mid-17th century to the mid-18th century. The buccaneering period covers approximately the late 17th century. The period is characterized by Anglo-French seamen based on Jamaica and Tortuga attacking Spanish colonies and shipping in the Caribbean and eastern Pacific. A sailing route known as the Pirate Round was followed by certain Anglo-American pirates at the turn of the 18th century, associated with long-distance voyages from Bermuda and the Americas to rob Muslim and East India Company targets in the Indian Ocean and Red Sea. The post-Spanish Succession period extending into the early 18th century, when Anglo-American sailors and privateers left unemployed by the end of the War of the Spanish Succession turned en masse to piracy in the Caribbean, the American eastern seaboard, the West African coast, and the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe 15th to 18th century period is marked by the first European colonies, the rise of strong centralized governments, and the beginnings of recognizable European nation states that are the direct antecedents of today's states. Although the Renaissance included revolutions in many intellectual pursuits, as well as social and political upheaval, it is perhaps best known for European artistic developments and the contributions of such polymaths as Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, who inspired the term \"Renaissance man\".\n\nDuring the Baroque period the Thirty Years' War in Central Europe decimated the population by up to 20%. In 1648, the Peace of Westphalia, consisting of the treaties of Osnabrück and Münster, signed on May 15 and October 24, respectively, ended several wars in Europe and established the beginning of sovereign states. The treaties involved the Holy Roman Emperor, Ferdinand III (Habsburg), the Kingdoms of Spain, France and Sweden, the Netherlands and their respective allies among the princes and the Republican Imperial States of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nThe Peace of Westphalia resulted from the first modern diplomatic congress. Until 1806, the regulations became part of the constitutional laws of the Holy Roman Empire. The Treaty of the Pyrenees, signed in 1659, ended the war between France and Spain and is often considered part of the overall accord.\n\nThe Age of Absolutism describes the monarchical power that was unrestrained by any other institutions, such as churches, legislatures, or social elites of the European monarchs during the transition from feudalism to capitalism. Monarchs described as absolute can especially be found in the 17th century through the 19th century. Nations that adopted Absolutism include France, Prussia, and Russia. Nobles tended to trade privileges for allegiance throughout the eighteenth century, so that the interests of the nobility aligned with that of the crown. Absolutism is characterized by the ending of feudal partitioning, consolidation of power with the monarch, rise of state power, unification of the state laws, drastic increase in tax revenue collected by the monarch, and a decrease in the influence of nobility.\n\nFor much of the reign of Louis XIV, who was known as the \"Sun King\" (French: \"le Roi Soleil\"), France stood as the leading power in Europe, engaging in three major wars—the Franco-Dutch War, the War of the League of Augsburg, and the War of the Spanish Succession—and two minor conflicts—the War of Devolution, and the War of the Reunions. Louis believed in the Divine Right of Kings, the theory that the King was crowned by God and accountable to him alone. Consequently, he has long been considered the archetypal absolute monarch. Louis XIV continued the work of his predecessor to create a centralized state, governed from the capital to sweep away the remnants of feudalism that persisted in parts of France. He succeeded in breaking the power of the provincial nobility, much of which had risen in revolt during his minority called the Fronde, and forced many leading nobles to live with him in his lavish Palace of Versailles.\n\nMen who featured prominently in the political and military life of France during this period include Mazarin, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, Turenne, Vauban. French culture likewise flourished during this era, producing a number of figures of great renown, including Molière, Racine, Boileau, La Fontaine, Lully, Le Brun, Rigaud, Louis Le Vau, Jules Hardouin Mansart, Claude Perrault and Le Nôtre.\n\nBefore the Age of Revolution, the English Civil War was a series of armed conflicts and political machinations between Parliamentarians and Royalists. The first and second civil wars pitted the supporters of King Charles I against the supporters of the Long Parliament, while the third war saw fighting between supporters of King Charles II and supporters of the Rump Parliament. The Civil War ended with the Parliamentary victory at the Battle of Worcester. The monopoly of the Church of England on Christian worship in England ended with the victors consolidating the established Protestant Ascendancy in Ireland. Constitutionally, the wars established the precedent that an English monarch cannot govern without Parliament's consent. The English Restoration, or simply put as the Restoration, began in 1660 when the English, Scottish and Irish monarchies were all restored under Charles II after the Commonwealth of England that followed the English Civil War. The Glorious Revolution of 1688 establishes modern parliamentary democracy in England.\n\nThe War of the Spanish Succession was a war fought between 1701 and 1714, in which several European powers combined to stop a possible unification of the Kingdoms of Spain and France under a single Bourbon monarch, upsetting the European balance of power. It was fought mostly in Europe, but it included Queen Anne's War in North America. The war was marked by the military leadership of notable generals like the duc de Villars, the Jacobite Duke of Berwick, the Duke of Marlborough and Prince Eugene of Savoy.\n\nThe Peace of Utrecht established after a series of individual peace treaties signed in the Dutch city of Utrecht concluded between various European states helped end the War of the Spanish Succession. The representatives who met were Louis XIV of France and Philip V of Spain on the one hand, and representatives of Queen Anne of Great Britain, the Duke of Savoy, and the United Provinces on the other. The treaty enregistred the defeat of French ambitions expressed in the wars of Louis XIV and preserved the European system based on the balance of power. The Treaty of Utrecht marked the change from Spanish to British naval supremacy.\n\nThe term \"colonialism\" is normally used with reference to discontiguous overseas empires rather than contiguous land-based empires, European or otherwise. European colonisation during the 15th to 19th centuries resulted in the spread of Christianity to Sub-Saharan Africa, the Americas, Australia and the Philippines.\n\nChristopher Columbus discovered the Americas in 1492. Subsequently, the major sea powers in Europe sent expeditions to the New World to build trade networks and colonies and to convert the native peoples to Christianity. Pope Alexander VI divided newly discovered lands outside Europe between Spain and Portugal along a north-south meridian 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde islands (off the west coast of Africa). The division was never accepted by the rulers of England or France. (See also the Treaty of Tordesillas, which followed the papal decree.)\n\nWhat is now called Latin America, a designation first used in the late 19th century, was claimed by Spain and Portugal. The Western Hemisphere, the New World, was divided between the two Iberian powers by the Treaty of Tordesillas in what until the late 16th-century, was an area that could be called \"Ibero-America.\" Spain called its overseas empire there \"The Indies,\" with Portugal calling its territory in South America Brazil, after the dyewood found there. Spain concentrated building its empire where there were large indigenous populations, \"Indians,\" who could be compelled to work and large deposits of precious metals, mainly silver. Both New Spain (colonial Mexico) and Peru fit those criteria and the Spanish crown established viceroyalties to rule those two large areas. As Spanish settlements and the economy grew in size and complexity, the Spanish established viceroyalties in the eighteenth century during administrative reforms Rio de la Plata (southeastern South America) and New Granada (northern South America).\n\nInitially, Portuguese settlements (Brazil) in the coastal northeast were of lesser importance in the larger Portuguese overseas empire, where lucrative commerce and small settlements devoted to trade were established in coastal Africa, India and China. With sparse indigenous populations that could not be coerced to work and no known deposits of precious metals, Portugal sought a high-value, low-bulk export product and found it in sugarcane. Black African slave labour from Portugal's West African possessions was imported to do the grueling agricultural work. As the wealth of the Ibero-America increased, some Western European powers (Dutch, French, British, Danish) sought to duplicate the model in areas that the Iberians had not settled in numbers. They seized Caribbean islands from the Spanish and transferred the model of sugar production on plantations with slave labour and settled in northern areas of North America in what are now the Eastern Seaboard of the United States and Canada.\n\nNorth America outside the zone of Spanish settlement was a contested area in the 17th century. Spain had founded small settlements in Florida and Georgia but nowhere near the size of those in New Spain or the Caribbean islands. France, The Netherlands, and Great Britain held several colonies in North America and the West Indies from the 17th century, 100 years after the Spanish and Portuguese established permanent colonies. The British colonies in North America were founded between 1607 (Virginia) and 1733 (Georgia). The Dutch explored the east coast of North America and began founding settlements in what they called New Netherland (now New York State.). France colonized what is now Eastern Canada, founding Quebec City in 1608. France's loss in the Seven Years' War resulted in the transfer of New France to Great Britain. The Thirteen Colonies, in lower British North America, rebelled against British rule in 1775, largely due to the taxation that Great Britain was imposing on the colonies. The British colonies in Canada remained loyal to the crown, and a provisional government formed by the Thirteen Colonies proclaimed their independence on July 4, 1776 and subsequently became the original 13 United States of America. With the 1783 Treaty of Paris ending the American Revolutionary War, Britain recognised the former Thirteen Colonies' independence.\n\nA recent development in early modern history is the creation of Atlantic World as a category. The term generally encompasses western Europe, West Africa, North and South and America and the Caribbean islands. It seeks to show both local and regional development and the connections between the various geographical regions.\n\nConcerning the development of Eastern philosophies, much of Eastern philosophy had been in an advanced state of development from study in the previous centuries. The various philosophies include Indian philosophy, Chinese philosophy, Iranian philosophy, Japanese philosophy, and Korean philosophy.\n\nThe Islamic Golden Age reached its peak in the High Middle Ages, stopped short by the Mongol invasions of the 13th century. The re-establishment of three major Muslim empires by the 16th century (the aforementioned Ottoman Safavid and Mughal Empires) gave rise to a Muslim cultural revival. The Safavids established Twelver Shi'a Islam as Iran's official religion, thus giving Iran a separate identity from its Sunni neighbors.\n\nThe early modern period was initiated by the Protestant Reformation and the collapse of the unity of the medieval Western Church.\nThe theology of Calvinism in particular has been argued as instrumental to the rise of capitalism (\"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\").\n\nThe Counter-Reformation was a period of Catholic revival in response to the Protestant Reformation during the mid-16th to mid-17th centuries. The Counter-Reformation was a comprehensive effort, involving ecclesiastical or structural reforms as well as a political dimension and spiritual movements.\n\nSuch reforms included the foundation of seminaries for the proper training of priests in the spiritual life and the theological traditions of the Church, the reform of religious life by returning orders to their spiritual foundations and new spiritual movements focusing on the devotional life and a personal relationship with Christ, including the Spanish mystics and the French school of spirituality. It also involved political activities that included the Roman Inquisition.\n\nNew religious orders were a fundamental part of this trend. Orders such as the Capuchins, Ursulines, Theatines, Discalced Carmelites, the Barnabites, and especially the Jesuits strengthened rural parishes, improved popular piety, helped to curb corruption within the church and set examples that would be a strong impetus for Catholic renewal.\n\nWith the adoption of large-scale printing after 1500, Italian Renaissance Humanism spread northward to France, Germany, Holland and England, where it became associated with the Protestant Reformation. In France, pre-eminent Humanist Guillaume Budé (1467–1540) applied the philological methods of Italian Humanism to the study of antique coinage and to legal history, composing a detailed commentary on Justinian's Code. Although a royal absolutist (and not a republican like the early Italian \"umanisti\"), Budé was active in civic life, serving as a diplomat for Francis I and helping to found the Collège des Lecteurs Royaux (later the Collège de France). Meanwhile, Marguerite de Navarre, the sister of Francis I, herself a poet, novelist and religious mystic, gathered around her and protected a circle of vernacular poets and writers, including Clément Marot, Pierre de Ronsard and François Rabelais.\n\nThe philosophy of 17th-century Europe marks the departure from medieval scholasticism and the often occultist approach of Renaissance philosophy.\nThe period was typified in Europe by the great system-builders, philosophers who presented unified systems of epistemology, metaphysics, logic, and ethics and often politics and the physical sciences as well.\n\nImmanuel Kant classified his predecessors into two schools: the rationalists and the empiricists, The three main rationalists are normally taken to have been René Descartes, Baruch Spinoza, and Gottfried Leibniz.\n\nThe first great advances towards modern science were made in the mid-17th century, most notably the theory of gravity by Isaac Newton (1643–1727). Newton, Spinoza, John Locke (1632–1704) and Pierre Bayle (1647–1706) were philosophers sparking the Age of Enlightenment in the following century.\n\nThe Great Divergence is epitomized by the \"Age of Enlightenment\" (or \"Age of Reason\").\nThe Enlightenment, starting in the 1750s, flourished until about 1790–1800, after which the emphasis on reason gave way to Romanticism's emphasis on emotion and a Counter-Enlightenment gained force.\n\nThe centre of the Enlightenment was France, where it was based in the salons and culminated in the great \"Encyclopédie\" (1751–1772), edited by Denis Diderot (1713–1784) with contributions by hundreds of leading philosophes (intellectuals) such as Voltaire (1694–1778) and Montesquieu (1689–1755). The French Enlightenment was received in Germany, notably fostered by Frederick the Great, the king of Prussia, and gave rise to a flowering of German philosophy, represented foremost by Immanuel Kant.\n\nThe French and German developments were further influential in Scottish, Russian, Spanish and Polish philosophy.\n\nIn modern history, the end of the early period falls in the late 18th century, as an Age of Revolutions dawns, beginning with those in North America and France. Subsequent important political changes occurred throughout Europe, including upheavals following the Napoleonic Wars, the redrawing of the map of Europe through the Second Treaty of Paris, the rise of new concepts of nationalism and the reorganization in military forces. The end of the early modern period is usually also associated with the Industrial Revolution, which began in Britain in the mid-18th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38802668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38802668", "title": "Economic democracy", "text": "Economic democracy\n\nEconomic democracy is a socioeconomic philosophy that proposes to shift decision-making power from corporate managers and corporate shareholders to a larger group of public stakeholders that includes workers, customers, suppliers, neighbors and the broader public. No single definition or approach encompasses economic democracy, but most proponents claim that modern property relations externalize costs, subordinate the general well-being to private profit and deny the polity a democratic voice in economic policy decisions. In addition to these moral concerns, economic democracy makes practical claims, such as that it can compensate for capitalism's inherent effective demand gap.\n\nProponents of economic democracy generally argue that modern capitalism periodically results in economic crises characterized by deficiency of effective demand as society is unable to earn enough income to purchase its output production. Corporate monopoly of common resources typically creates artificial scarcity, resulting in socio-economic imbalances that restrict workers from access to economic opportunity and diminish consumer purchasing power. Economic democracy has been proposed as a component of larger socioeconomic ideologies, as a stand-alone theory and as a variety of reform agendas. For example, as a means to securing full economic rights, it opens a path to full political rights, defined as including the former. Both market and non-market theories of economic democracy have been proposed. As a reform agenda, supporting theories and real-world examples range from decentralization and economic liberalization to democratic cooperatives, public banking, fair trade and the regionalization of food production and currency.\nAccording to many analysts, deficiency of effective demand is the most fundamental economic problem. That is, modern society does not earn enough income to purchase its output. For example, geographer David Harvey claims, \"Workers spending their wages is one source of effective demand, but the total wage bill is always less than the total capital in circulation (otherwise there would be no profit), so the purchase of wage goods that sustain daily life (even with a suburban lifestyle) is never sufficient for the profitable sale of the total output\". While balanced mixed economies have existed briefly throughout history, veteran Project Manager for the U.S. Treasury Department, Richard C. Cook and other critics claim that command economies are predominate, citing state capitalism and imperialism as related. As common resources are monopolized by imperial centers of wealth and power, conditions of scarcity are imposed artificially upon the majority, resulting in large-scale socio-economic imbalance.\n\nIn the Georgist view of any economic system, \"wealth\" includes all material things produced by labor for the satisfaction of human desires and having exchange value. Land, labor and capital are generally considered the essential factors in producing wealth. Land includes all natural opportunities and forces. Labor includes all human exertion. Capital includes the portion of wealth devoted to producing more wealth. While the income of any individual might include proceeds from any combination of these three sources—land, labor and capital are generally considered mutually exclusive factors in economic models of the production and distribution of wealth. According to Henry George: \"People seek to satisfy their desires with the least exertion\". Human beings interact with nature to produce goods and services that other human beings need or desire. The laws and customs that govern the relationships among these entities constitute the economic structure of a given society.\n\nAlternately, David Schweickart asserts in his book, \"After Capitalism\": \"The structure of a capitalist society consists of three basic components:\n\n\nSupply and demand are generally accepted as market functions for establishing prices. Organisations typically endeavor to 1) minimize the cost of production; 2) increase sales; in order to 3) maximize profits. But, according to David Schweickart, if \"those who produce the goods and services of society are paid less than their productive contribution\", then as consumers they cannot buy all the goods produced, and investor confidence tends to decline, triggering declines in production and employment. Such economic instability stems from a central contradiction: Wages are both a cost of production and an essential source of effective demand (needs or desires backed with purchasing power), resulting in deficiency of effective demand along with a growing interest in economic democracy.\n\nIn chapter 3 of his book, \"Community Organizing: Theory and Practice\", Douglas P. Biklen discusses a variety of perspectives on \"The Making of Social Problems\". One of those views suggests that \"writers and organizers who define social problems in terms of social and economic democracy see problems not as the experiences of poor people, but as the relationship of poverty to wealth and exploitation\". Biklen states that according to this viewpoint:\n\nIn his 1879 book \"Progress and Poverty\", Henry George argued that a majority of wealth created in a \"free market\" economy was appropriated by land owners and monopolists through economic rents, and that concentration of such unearned wealth was the root cause of poverty. \"Behind the abstraction known as 'the market' lurks a set of institutions designed to maximize the wealth and power of the most privileged group of people in the world—the creditor-rentier class of the first world and their junior partners in the third\". Schweickart claimed that private savings are not only unnecessary for economic growth, they are often harmful to the overall economy.\n\nIn an advanced industrial society, business credit is necessary for a healthy economy. A business that wants to expand production needs to command the labor of others, and money is the default mechanism for exercising this authority. It is often cheaper for a business to borrow capital from a bank than to stockpile cash.\n\nIf private savings are loaned out to entrepreneurs who use them to buy raw materials and hire workers, then aggregate demand is not reduced. However, when private savings are not reinvested, the whole economy suffers recession, unemployment, and disappearance of savings which characterize deficiency of effective demand.\n\nIn this view, unemployment is not an aberration, indicating any sort of systemic malfunction. Rather, unemployment is a necessary structural feature of capitalism, intended to discipline the workforce. If unemployment is too low, workers make wage demands that either cut into profits to an extent that jeopardizes future investment, or are passed on to consumers, thus generating inflationary instability. Schweickart suggested, \"Capitalism cannot be a full-employment economy, except in the very short term. For unemployment is the \"invisible hand\"—carrying a stick—that keeps the workforce in line.\" In this view, Adam Smith's \"invisible hand\" does not seem reliable to guide economic forces on a large scale.\n\nAssuming business credit could come from public sources rather than from private savers, Schweickart and other analysts consider interest payments to private savers both undeserved and unnecessary for economic growth. Moreover, the personal decision to save rather than consume decreases aggregate demand, increases the likelihood of unemployment, and exacerbates the tendency toward economic stagnation. Since wealthy people tend to save more than poor people, the propensity of an economy to slump because of excess saving becomes ever more acute as a society becomes more affluent. Richard Wilkinson and Kate Pickett suggested that health and social problems are significantly worse in more unequal wealthy nations. They argue that there are \"pernicious effects that inequality has on societies: eroding trust, increasing anxiety and illness, (and) encouraging excessive consumption\"\n\nRegarding a social and economic democracy perspective on social problems, Douglas P. Biklen states:\n\nThe discipline of economics is largely a study of scarcity management; \"the science which studies human behavior as a relationship between ends and scarce means which have alternative uses\". Absent scarcity and alternative uses of available resources, many analysts claim there is no economic problem\". For example, Richard C. Cook asserts that conditions of scarcity are artificially maintained by corporate structures that confine abundance to an exclusively entitled minority. In this view, socio-economic imbalance stems not from a failure to manage limited resources in a world of scarcity, but from mismanagement of virtually unlimited abundance and prosperity. American businessman Edward Kellogg (1790–1858) supports this perspective in his 1849 book, \"Labor and Other Capital\", where he states:\n\nWhile he considers these functions a public wrong, Kellogg also asserted the responsibility of the public to find and implement a remedy. Generally considered monopoly power, some view this \"public wrong\" as the most influential factor in artificial scarcity. For example, Henry George further suggested:\n\nFor example, many analysts consider invention a \"more or less costless store of knowledge, captured by monopoly capital and protected in order to make it secret and a 'rare and scarce commodity', for sale at monopoly prices. So far as invention is concerned, a price is put on them not because they are scarce but in order to make them scarce to those who want to use them.\" Patent monopolies raise share prices above tangible labor value. The difference between labor-value and monopoly-value raises goods prices, and is collected as \"profit\" by intermediaries who have contributed nothing to earn it.\n\nAnalysts generally agree that such conditions typically result in a deficiency of effective demand. Labor does not earn enough to buy what enterprises produce. For example, Richard C. Cook maintains that the difference between earnings and prices is typically appropriated by industrial and banking centers of capital through monopoly control of finance and other market resources. Such exclusive entitlement tends to artificially impose conditions of economic scarcity upon the majority of the population. While the accelerating advance of technology, developed and maintained by labor, tends to generate abundance, this process depresses wages as workers are replaced by machines, ironically minimizing the purchasing power of workers in the market. According to Jack Rasmus, author of \"The Trillion Dollar Income Shift\", in June 2006, investment bank Goldman Sachs reported: \"The most important contribution to the higher profit margins over the past five years has been a decline in Labor's share of national income.\" \n\nArtificially restricted access of labor to common resources is generally considered monopoly or enclosure of the commons. Due to the economic imbalance inherently imposed, such monopoly structures tend to be centrally dictated by law, and must be maintained by military force, trade agreements, or both.\n\nIn 1911, American journalist Ambrose Bierce defined \"land\" as:\n\nIn \"The Servile State\" (1912), Hilaire Belloc referred to the Enclosures Movement when he said, \"England was already captured by a wealthy oligarchy before the series of great industrial discoveries began\". If you sought the accumulated wealth preliminary to launching new industry, \"you had to turn to the class which had already monopolized the bulk of the means of production in England. The rich men alone could furnish you with those supplies\".\n\nAccording to Peter Barnes, author of \"Capitalism 3.0\", when Adam Smith wrote \"The Wealth of Nations\" in 1776, the dominant form of business was partnership, in which regional groups of co-workers ran co-owned businesses. From this perspective, many considered the corporate model—stock sold to strangers—inherently prone to fraud. While numerous scandals historically support this dim view of corporate policy, small partnerships could not possibly compete with the aggregate capital generated by corporate economies of scale. The greatest advantage of corporations over any other business model is their ability to raise capital from strangers. The corporate model benefits from laws that limit stockholders' liability to the amounts they have invested.\n\nIn \"A Preface To Economic Democracy\", Robert A. Dahl suggests that agrarian economy and society in the early United States \"underwent a revolutionary transformation into a new system of commercial and industrial capitalism that automatically generated vast inequalities of wealth, income, status, and power.\" Dahl claims that such inequalities result from the \"liberty to accumulate unlimited economic resources and to organize economic activity into hierarchically governed enterprises.\"\n\nAccording to author Greg MacLeod, the concept of the corporation originated in Roman times. However, \"the modern business corporation evolved radically from its ancient roots into a form with little relation to the purpose as understood by historians of law.\" John Davis, a legal historian, noted that the precursor of the business corporation was the first monastery, established in the sixth century, the purpose of which was to serve society. Most business corporations before 1900 developed in Great Britain, where they were established by royal charter, with the expectation of contributions to society. Incorporation was a privilege granted in return for service to the crown or the nation. MacLeod goes on to say:\n\nBy the mid-nineteenth century, corporations could live forever, engage in any legal activity, and merge with or acquire other corporations. In 1886, the U.S. Supreme Court legally recognized corporations as “persons”, entitled under the Fourteenth Amendment to the same protections as living citizens. Unlike average citizens, large corporations had large flows of money at their disposal. With this money they can hire lobbyists, donate copiously to politicians, and sway public opinion.\n\nBut, despite Supreme Court rulings, the modern corporation is not a real person. Rather, the publicly traded stock corporation is what Barnes terms an \"automaton\", explicitly designed to maximize return to its owners. A corporation never sleeps or slows down. It externalizes as many costs as possible, and never reaches an upper limit of profitability, because no such limit has yet been established. As a result, corporations keep getting larger. In 1955, sales of the Fortune 500 accounted for one-third of U.S. gross domestic product. By 2004 they commanded two-thirds. In other words, these few hundred corporations replaced smaller firms organized as partnerships or proprietorships. Corporations have established a homogeneous global playing field around which they can freely move raw materials, labor, capital, finished products, tax-paying obligations, and profits. Thus, corporate franchise has become a perpetual grant of sovereignty, including immortality, self-government, and limited liability. By the end of the twentieth century, corporate power—both economic and political—stretched worldwide. International agreements not only lowered tariffs but extended corporate property rights and reduced the ability of sovereign nations to regulate corporations.\n\nDavid Schweickart submits that such \"hypermobility of capital\" generates economic and political insecurity. \"If the search for lower wages comes to dominate the movement of capital, the result will be not only a lowering of worldwide wage disparities (the good to which some economists point) but also a lowering of total global income (a straight-out utilitarian bad).\" Jack Rasmus, author of \"The War At Home\" and \"The Trillion Dollar Income Shift\", argues that the increasing concentration of corporate power is a cause of the large-scale debt, unemployment, and poverty characteristic of economic recession and depression. According to Rasmus, income inequality in contemporary America increased as the relative share of income for corporations and the wealthiest one percent of households rose while income shares declined for 80-percent of the United States workforce. After rising steadily for three decades after World War II, the standard of living for most American workers has sharply declined between the mid-1970s to the present. Rasmus likens the widening income gap in contemporary American society to the decade leading up to the Great Depression, estimating \"well over $1 trillion in income is transferred annually from the roughly 90 million working class families in America to corporations and the wealthiest non-working-class households. While a hundred new billionaires were created since 2001, real weekly earnings for 100 million workers are less in 2007 than in 1980 when Ronald Reagan took office\".\n\nAccording to economist Richard D. Wolff, the 1970s brought an end to the labor shortage which had facilitated more than a century of rising average real wages in the United States. Wolff says Americans responded to the resulting deficiency of effective demand by working more hours and excessive borrowing; the latter paving the way for the financial crisis of 2007–08.\n\nAccording to David Harvey, \"the export of capital and the cultivation of new markets around the world\" is a solution \"as old as capitalism itself\" for the deficiency of effective demand. Imperialism, as defined by \"Dictionary of Human Geography\", is \"the creation and/or maintenance of an unequal economic, cultural, and territorial relationship, usually between states and often in the form of an empire, based on domination and subordination.\" \"These geographic shifts\", according to David Harvey, \"are the heart of uneven geographic development\".\n\nVladimir Lenin viewed imperialism as the highest stage of capitalism. He asserted that the merging of banks and industrial cartels gave rise to finance capital, which was then exported (rather than goods) in pursuit of greater profits than the home market could offer. Political and financial power became divided among international monopolist firms and European states, colonizing large parts of the world in support of their businesses. According to analyst Michael Parenti, imperialism is \"the process whereby the dominant politico-economic interests of one nation expropriate for their own enrichment the land, labor, raw materials, and markets of another people.\" Parenti says imperialism is older than capitalism. Given its expansionist nature, capitalism has little inclination to stay home. While he conceded imperialism is not typically recognized as a legitimate allegation about the United States, Parenti argued:\n\nIn his book, \"The Political Struggle for the 21st century\", J.W. Smith examines the economic basis for the history of imperial civilization. On a global scale, he says developed nations tended to impede or prohibit the economic and technological advancement of weaker developing countries through the military force, martial law, and inequitable practices of trade that typically characterize colonialism. Rhetorically termed as \"survival of the fittest\", or \"might makes right\", such economic crises stem from the imbalances imposed by corporate imperialism. Just as cities in the Middle Ages monopolized the means of production by conquering and controlling the sources of raw materials and countryside markets, Smith claims that contemporary centers of capital now control our present world through private monopoly of public resources sometimes known as \"the commons\". Through inequalities of trade, developing countries are overcharged for import of manufactured goods and underpaid for raw material exports, as wealth is siphoned from the periphery of empire and hoarded at the imperial-centers-of-capital:\n\nSmith goes on to say that, like other financial empires in history, the contemporary model forms alliances necessary to develop and control wealth, keeping peripheral nations impoverished providers of cheap resources for the imperial capital centers. Belloc estimated that, during the British Enclosures, \"perhaps half of the whole population was proletarian\", while roughly the other \"half\" owned and controlled the means of production. Under modern Capitalism, J.W. Smith claimed that fewer than 500 individuals possess more wealth than half of the earth's population. The wealth of 1/2 of 1-percent of the United States population roughly equals that of the lower 90-percent. \n\nRichard Cook claimed that the United States maintained stability by economically dominating the world as a means of filling the gap between production and consumption. Beginning with loans to European combatants during World War I, and continuing through the lend-lease program of World War II, U.S. domination of trade peaked through economic recovery measures following those wars. Though forming the basis for U.S. prosperity during the 1950s and 1960s, U.S trade domination was exhausted by the mid-1970s, when the United States implemented a policy known as dollar hegemony, intended to stabilize the economy.\n\nAdvocating for an \"alternative economic system free of capitalism's structural flaws\", economist Richard D. Wolff says reform agendas are fundamentally inadequate, given that capitalist corporations, the dominant institutions of the existing system, retain the incentives and the resources to undo any sort of reform policy. For example, Wolff goes on to say:\n\nAccording to David Schweickart, a serious critique of any problem cannot be content to merely note the negative features of the existing model. Instead, we must specify precisely the structural features of an alternative: \"But if we want to do more than simply denounce the evils of capitalism, we must confront the claim that 'there is no alternative'—by proposing one.\" Schweickart argued that both full employment and guaranteed basic income are impossible under the restrictions of the U.S. economic system for two primary reasons: a) unemployment is an essential feature of capitalism, not an indication of systemic failure; and b) while capitalism thrives under polyarchy, it is not compatible with genuine democracy. Assuming these \"democratic deficits\" significantly impact the management of both the workplace and new investment, many proponents of economic democracy tend to favor the creation and implementation of a new economic model over reform of the existing one.\n\nFor example, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. claimed \"Communism forgets that life is individual. Capitalism forgets that life is social, and the Kingdom of Brotherhood is found neither in the thesis of Communism nor the antithesis of Capitalism but in a higher synthesis. It is found in a higher synthesis that combines the truths of both\". Regarding the gap between productivity and purchasing power, Dr. King maintained:\n\nAccording to historian and political economist, Gar Alperovitz: \"King’s final judgment stands as instructive evidence of his understanding of the nature of systemic challenge — and also as a reminder that given the failures of both traditional socialism and corporate capitalism, it is time to get serious about clarifying not only the question of strategy, but what, in fact, the meaning of changing the system in a truly democratic direction might one day entail.\"\n\nTrade unionist and social activist Allan Engler argued further that economic democracy was the working-class alternative to capitalism. In his book, \"Economic Democracy\", Engler stated:\n\nAssuming that \"democracy is not just a political value, but one with profound economic implications, the problem is not to choose between plan and market, but to integrate these institutions into a democratic framework\". Like capitalism, economic democracy can be defined in terms of three basic features:\n\n\nIn real-world practice, Schweickart concedes economic democracy will be more complicated and less \"pure\" than his model. However, to grasp the nature of the system and to understand its essential dynamic, it is important to have a clear picture of the basic structure. Capitalism is characterized by private ownership of productive resources, the market, and wage labor. The Soviet economic model subordinated private ownership of productive resources to public ownership by collectivizing farms and factories. It further subordinated the market to central planning—but retained the institution of wage labor.\n\nMost proposed models for economic democracy generally begin with democratizing the workplace and the ownership of capital. Other proposals advocate replacing the market with some form of planning, as well.\n\nIn worker self-management, each productive enterprise is controlled by those who work there. Workers are responsible for the operation of the facility, including organization, discipline, production techniques, and the nature, price, and distribution of products. Decisions concerning distribution are made democratically. Problems of authority delegation are solved by democratic representation. Management is chosen by the worker, not appointed by the State, not elected by the community at large and not selected by a board of directors elected by stockholders. Ultimate authority rests with the enterprise's workers, following the one-person, one-vote principle.\n\nAccording to veteran World Bank economic adviser David P. Ellerman it's the employment contract that needs to be abolished, not private property. In other words, \"a firm can be socialized and yet remain 'private' in the sense of not being government-owned.\" In his book, \"The Democratic Firm\", Ellerman stated:\n\nAlternately, in Schweickart's model, workers control the workplace, but they do not \"own\" the means of production. Productive resources are regarded as the collective property of the society. Workers run the enterprise, use its capital assets as they see fit, and distribute the profits among themselves. Here, societal \"ownership\" of the enterprise manifests itself in two ways: 1) All firms pay tax on their capital assets, which goes into society's investment fund. In effect, workers rent capital assets from society. 2) Firms are required to preserve the value of the capital stock entrusted to them. This means that a depreciation fund must be maintained to repair or replace existing capital stock. This money may be spent on capital replacements or improvements, but not to supplement workers' incomes. \n\nItaly's Legacoop and Spain's Mondragon multi-sectoral worker-cooperatives have both been able to reach significant scale and demonstrate long-term sustainability. According to a study conducted by Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the greatest lesson to be learned from these European experiences is the importance of developing an economically integrated network of cooperatives rather than a single cooperative. The report goes on to say:\n\nWhile there is no single approach or 'blueprint' for social control of investment, many strategies have been proposed. For example, Gar Alperovitz claims many real-world strategies have already emerged to democratize and decentralize the ownership of wealth and capital. In addition to worker cooperatives, Alperovitz highlights ESOPs, credit unions and other cooperative forms, social enterprises, municipally-owned utilities and public banks as starting points for what he has termed a \"Pluralist Commonwealth\".\n\nAlternately, David Schweickart proposes a flat-rate tax on capital assets to replace all other business taxes. This \"capital assets tax\" is collected and invested by the central government. Funds are dispersed throughout society, first to regions and communities on a per capita basis, then to public banks in accordance with past performance, then to those firms with profitable project proposals. Profitable projects that promise increased employment are favored over those that do not. At each level, national, regional and local, legislatures decide what portion of their funds is to be used for public capital expenditures, then send the remainder to the next lower level. Associated with most banks are entrepreneurial divisions, which promote firm expansion and new firm creation. For large (regional or national) enterprises, local investment banks are complemented by regional and national investment banks. These too would be public institutions that receive their funds from the national investment fund.\n\nBanks are public, not private, institutions that make grants, not loans, to business enterprises. According to Schweickart, these grants do not represent \"free money\", since an investment grant counts as an addition to the capital assets of the enterprise, upon which the capital-asset tax must be paid. Thus the capital assets tax functions as an interest rate. A bank grant is essentially a loan requiring interest payments but no repayment of principal.\n\nWhile an economy of worker-self-managed enterprises might tend toward lower unemployment than under capitalism - because banks are mandated to consistently prioritize investment projects that would increase employment - Schweickart notes that it does not guarantee full employment. Social control of investment serves to increase employment. If the market provides insufficient employment, the public sector becomes the employer of last resort. The original formulation of the U.S. Humphrey-Hawkins Act of 1978 assumed that only in this way could full employment be assured in a market economy. Economic Democracy adopts this approach. Social control of investment then blocks the cyclical unemployment typical of capitalism.\n\nHungarian historian Karl Polanyi suggested that market economies should subordinate themselves to larger societal needs. He states that human-beings, the source of labor, do not reproduce for the sole purpose of providing the market with workers. In The Great Transformation Polanyi says that, while modern states and market economies tend to grow under capitalism, both are mutually interdependent for functional development. In order for market economies to be truly prosperous, he claims social constructs must play an essential role. Polanyi claimed that land, labor, and money are all commodified under capitalism, though the inherent purpose of these items was never intended \"for sale\"—what he labels \"fictitious commodities.\" He says natural resources are \"God-given\", money is a bookkeeping entry validated by law, and labor is a human prerogative, not a personal obligation to market economies.\n\nSchweickart's economic democracy is a form of market economy, at least insofar as the allocation of consumer and capital goods is concerned. Firms buy raw materials and machinery from other firms and sell their products to other enterprises or consumers. \"Prices are largely unregulated except by supply and demand, although in some cases price controls or price supports might be in order – as they are deemed in order in most real-world forms of capitalism.\"\n\nWithout a price mechanism sensitive to supply and demand, it is extremely difficult for a producer or planner to know what and how much to produce, and which production and marketing methods are the most efficient. Otherwise, it is difficult to motivate producers to be both efficient and innovative. Market competition resolves these problems, to a significant if incomplete degree, in a non-authoritarian, non-bureaucratic fashion.\n\nEnterprises still strive to make a profit. However, \"profit\" in a worker-run firm is calculated differently than under capitalism. For a capitalist firm, labor is counted as a cost. For a worker-run enterprise it is not. Labor is not another \"factor of production\" on par with land and capital. Labor is the residual claimant. Workers get all that remains, once other costs, including depreciation set asides and the capital assets tax, have been paid.\n\nBecause of the way workplaces and the investment mechanism are structured, Schweickart's model aims to facilitate fair trade, not free trade, between nations. Under Economic Democracy, there would be virtually no cross-border capital flows. Enterprises themselves would not relocate abroad, since they are democratically controlled by their own workers. Finance capital stays mostly at home, since funds for investment are publicly generated and are mandated by law to be reinvested domestically. \"Capital doesn't flow into the country, either, since there are no stocks nor corporate bonds nor businesses to buy. The capital assets of the country are collectively owned – and hence not for sale.\"\n\nAccording to Michael Howard, \"in preserving commodity exchange, a market socialism has greater continuity with the society it displaces than does nonmarket socialism, and thus it is more likely to emerge from capitalism as a result of tendencies generated within it.\" But Howard also suggested, \"one argument against the market in socialist society has been that it blocks progress toward full communism or even leads back to capitalism\". From this perspective, nonmarket models of economic democracy have also been proposed.\n\nEconomic democracy is described as an integral component of an inclusive democracy in Takis Fotopoulos' \"Towards An Inclusive Democracy\" as a stateless, moneyless and marketless economy that precludes private accumulation of wealth and the institutionalization of privileges for some sections of society, without relying on a mythical post-scarcity state of abundance, or sacrificing freedom of choice.\n\nThe proposed system aims to meet the basic needs of all citizens (macroeconomic decisions), and secure freedom of choice (microeconomic decisions). Therefore, the system consists of two basic elements: (1) democratic planning, which involves a feedback process between workplace assemblies, demotic assemblies and a confederal assembly, and (2) an artificial market using personal vouchers, which ensures freedom of choice but avoids the adverse effects of real markets. Although David Pepper called this system \"a form of money based on the labour theory of value\", it is not a money model since vouchers cannot be used as a general medium of exchange and store of wealth.\n\nAnother distinguishing feature of inclusive democracy is its distinction between basic and non-basic needs. Remuneration is determined separately according to the cost of basic needs, and according to degree of effort for non-basic needs. Inclusive democracy is based on the principle that meeting basic needs is a fundamental human right which is guaranteed to all who are in a physical condition to offer a minimal amount of work. By contrast, participatory economics guarantees that basic needs are satisfied only for public goods or are covered by compassion and by a guaranteed basic income for the unemployed and those who cannot work. Many advocates of participatory economics and Participism have contested this.\n\nAs part of inclusive democracy, economic democracy is the authority of demos (community) in the economic sphere—which requires equal distribution of economic power. Therefore, all macroeconomic decisions (overall level of production, consumption and investment, amounts of work and leisure implied, technologies to be used and so on) are made collectively and without representation. However, microeconomic decisions are made by the individual production or consumption unit through a proposed system of vouchers.\n\nAs with the case of direct democracy, economic democracy is only feasible if the participants can easily cooperate.\n\nWhile reform agendas tend to critique the existing system and recommend corrective measures, they do not necessarily suggest alternative models to replace the fundamental structures of capitalism; private ownership of productive resources, the market and wage labor.\n\nRather than an economic shortfall, many analysts consider the gap between production and purchasing power a social dividend. In this view, credit is a public utility rather than debt to financial centers. Once reinvested in human productive potential, the surplus of societal output could actually increase Gross Domestic Product rather than throttling it, resulting in a more efficient economy, overall. Social Credit is an economic reform movement that originates from theories developed by Scottish engineer Major C. H. Douglas. His aim to make societal improvement the goal of economic systems is reflected in the term \"Social Credit\", and published in his book, entitled \"Economic Democracy\". In this view, the term \"economic democracy\" does not mean worker control of industry. While technological advancement tends to increase unemployment along with productivity, Douglas suggests that our perspective will determine whether this problem is a \"catastrophe\" or a \"magnificent achievement\":\n\nA national dividend and a compensated price mechanism are the two most essential components of the Social Credit program. While these measures have never been implemented in their purest form, they have provided a foundation for Social Credit political parties in many countries and for reform agendas that retain the title, \"economic democracy\".\n\nFollowing Douglas and a reform program based on direct government spending set forth by groups such as the American Monetary Institute, veteran Project Manager for the U.S. Treasury Department, Richard C. Cook proposes two general measures, which together he terms, \"economic democracy\":\n\n\n\nWhile Smith and others suggest an economic crisis might be necessary to drive a movement toward large-scale economic democracy, Cook argues that \"most economic reform programs address symptoms, not causes\":\n\nCook avoided collectivist solutions. Rather, he affirmed the value of \"democratic capitalism,\" combined with a shift to more public control of credit, and suggested a new approach to achieving worldwide prosperity, starting with economic recovery in the United States. Cook's argument stemmed from prior success in the United States treating credit as a public utility, including colonial paper currencies which allowed an emerging American society to monetize the value of its goods and services, the Greenbacks issued by President Abraham Lincoln during the American civil war, and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC) which moved to recapitalize failing state banks in rural areas and small towns during the Great Depression. While President Herbert Hoover's efforts failed, Cook credits RFC programs with providing low interest loans to the railroad industry, farmers, exporters, state and local governments, and wartime industries over a period of at least 20 years.\n\nCook also proposed a national dividend, sometimes known as a Basic Income Guarantee or \"BIG\", was advocated in the United States by economists, politicians and reformers, including Thomas Paine, Milton Friedman, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and John Kenneth Galbraith. Friedman originally proposed a negative income tax to support this system, but then opposed the bill because its revised implementation would have merely supplemented rather than replacing existing tax-structures. Cook suggested that racism might have been at the root of BIG's demise in the late 1960s, as \"many beneficiaries of the program would have been African-American\". In 2006, Representative Bob Filner (D-CA) proposed a modest basic income guarantee via an inflation-adjusted refundable tax credit. According to the U.S. Basic Income Guarantee Network:\n\nCook suggests existing U.S. (GDP) could support such a system. GDP of $12.98-trillion minus $9.21-trillion in purchasing power (\"wages\") equals a difference of $3.77-trillion. Distributed equally amongst United States citizens, Cook estimates a \"National Dividend\" of approximately $12,600 could be provided annually to every U.S. citizen. A primary function of monetary reform is to \"provide sufficient individual income\"—not merely \"create jobs\"—for American workers displaced by technological advancement, outsourcing, and other economic influences beyond their control. Funding of the National Dividend would be drawn from a national credit account, which would include all factors that generate production costs and create new capital assets. The national credit account could also be used for price subsidies to discourage manufacturers from cutting costs by shipping jobs overseas. \nRather than Federal Reserve Notes, circulated only through debt payable to a bank with interest, the National Dividend would be \"real money\", based on the productive capacity of the economy expressed as GDP. Cook says, \"it's important to realize that Social Credit is not a socialist system. Rather it is 'democratic capitalism,' in contrast to the 'finance capitalism' that has become so damaging\". Rooted in the ideals of Social Credit, proposed by Douglas in the 1920s, Cook explains:\n\nIn his book, \"Capitalism 3.0\", Peter Barnes likens a \"National Dividend\" to the game of Monopoly, where all players start with a fair distribution of financial opportunity to succeed, and try to privatize as much as they can as they move around \"the commons\". Distinguishing the board game from real-world business, Barnes claims that \"the top 5 percent of the population owns more property than the remaining 95 percent\", providing the smaller minority with an unfair advantage of approximately \"$5-trillion\" annually, at the beginning of the game. Contrasting \"redistribution\" of income (or property) with \"predistribution\", Barnes argues for \"propertizing\" (without corporately privatizing) \"the commons\" to spread ownership universally, without taking wealth from some and giving it to others. His suggested mechanism to this end is the establishment of a \"Commons Sector\", ensuring payment from the Corporate Sector for \"the commons\" they utilize, and equitably distributing the proceeds for the benefit of contemporary and future generations of society.\n\nOne real-world example of such reform is in the U.S. State of Alaska, where each citizen receives an annual share of the part of the state's oil revenues via the \"Alaska Permanent Fund Dividend\". Barnes suggests this model could extend to other states and nations because \"we jointly own many valuable assets\". As corporate pollution of common assets increased, the permits for such pollution would become more scarce, driving prices for those permits up. \"Less pollution would equal more revenue\", and over time, \"trillions of dollars could flow into an American Permanent Fund\".\n\nHowever, none of these proposals aspire to the mandates recommended by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.:\n\nBarnes deemed any such reform unlikely. Thomas Paine originally recommended a National Dividend to compensate for the brutality of British Enclosures, but his idea was never adopted.\n\nRather than superficially compensating for legalized inequities, Smith recommends abolishing or redefining property rights laws with particular respect for \"the commons\". According to Smith exclusive title to natural resources and technologies should be converted to inclusive conditional titles—the condition being that society should collect rental values on all natural resources. Smith suggests the basic principles of monopolization under feudalism were never abandoned, and residues of exclusive feudal property rights restrict the potential efficiency of capitalism in Western cultures. He estimated that roughly 60 percent of American capital is little more than capitalized values of unearned wealth. He proposed that elimination of these monopoly values would double economic efficiency, maintain quality of life, and reduce working hours by half. Wasteful monetary flows could be stopped only by eliminating all methods of monopolization typical in Western economies.\n\nSmith divided \"primary (feudal) monopoly\" into four general categories: banking; land; technology and communications. He listed three general categories of \"secondary (modern) monopoly\"; insurance, law, health care. Smith further claimed that converting these exclusive entitlements to inclusive human rights would minimize battles for market share, thereby eliminating most offices and staff needed to maintain monopoly structures, and stop the wars generated to protect them. Dissolving roughly half the economic activity of a monopoly system would reduce the costs of common resources by roughly half, and significantly minimize the most influential factors of poverty.\n\nIn Smith's view, most taxes should be eliminated, and productive enterprise should be privately owned and managed. Inventors should be paid well and all technology placed in the public domain. Crucial services currently monopolized through licensing should be legislated as human rights.\n\nSmith envisioned a balanced economy under a socially owned banking commons within an inclusive society with full and equal rights for all. Federated regions collect resource rents on land and technology to a social fund to operate governments and care for social needs. Socially owned banks provide finance capital by creating debt-free money for social infrastructure and industry. Rental values return to society through expenditure on public infrastructures. Local labor is trained and employed to build and maintain water systems, sewers, roads, communication systems, railroads, ports, airports, post offices, and education systems. Purchasing power circulates regionally, as labor spends wages in consumption and governments spend resource rent and banking profits to maintain essential services.\n\nAccording to Smith, all monetary systems, including money markets, should function within fractional-reserve banking. Financial capital should be the total savings of all citizens, balanced by primary-created money to fill any shortfall, or its destruction through increased reserve requirements to eliminate any surplus. Adjustments of required reserves should facilitate the balance between building with socially created money or savings. Any shortage of savings within a socially owned banking system should be alleviated by simply printing it.\n\nA cooperative is an autonomous association of persons united voluntarily to meet their common economic, social, and cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly-owned and democratically-controlled enterprise. By various names, cooperatives play an essential role in all forms of Economic Democracy. Classified as either consumer cooperatives or worker cooperatives, the cooperative business model is fundamental to the interests of economic democracy.\n\nAccording to the International Cooperative Alliance's Statement on the Cooperative Identity, \"cooperatives are democratic organizations controlled by their members, who actively participate in setting policies and making decisions. Men and women serving as elected representatives are accountable to the membership. In primary cooperatives members have equal voting rights (one member, one vote) and cooperatives at other levels are also organized in a democratic manner.\"\n\nAccording to the United States Federation of Worker Cooperatives: \"Worker cooperatives are business entities that are owned and controlled by their members, the people who work in them. The two central characteristics of worker cooperatives are: 1) workers invest in and own the business and (2) decision-making is democratic, generally adhering to the principle of one worker-one vote.\" Worker cooperatives occupy multiple sectors and industries in the United States, mostly in the Northeast, the West Coast and the Upper Midwest, totaling 300 democratic workplaces in the United States, employing over 3,500 people and generating over $400 million in annual revenues. While a few are larger enterprises, most are small. Growing steadily between 1990 and 2010, technology and home health care experienced most of the recent increase.\n\nWorker cooperatives generally employ an industrial model called workplace democracy, which rejects the \"master-servant relationship\" implicit in the traditional employment contract. According to Wilkinson and Pickett, neither ownership or participation alone are sufficient to establish democracy in the workplace. \"[M]any share-ownership schemes amount to little more than incentive schemes, intended to make employees more compliant with management and sometimes to provide a nest-egg for retirement... To make a reliable difference to company performance, share-ownership has to be combined with more participative management methods.\" Dahl further argued that self-governing enterprises should not be confused with other systems they might resemble:\n\nIn worker cooperatives, net income is called surplus instead of profit and is distributed among the members based on hours worked, seniority, or other criteria. In a worker cooperative, workers own their jobs, and therefore have a direct stake in the local environment and the power to conduct business in ways that benefit the community rather than destroying it. Some worker cooperatives maintain what is known as a “multiple bottom line”, evaluating success not merely in terms of net income, but also by factors like their sustainability as a business, their contribution to the community, and the happiness and longevity of their workers.\n\nWorker-control can take many forms depending on the size and type of the business. Approaches to decision-making include: an elected board of directors, elected managers, management job roles, no management at all, consensus, majority vote, or combinations of the above. Participation in decision-making becomes the responsibility and privilege of each member. In one variation, workers usually invest money when they begin working. Each member owns one share, which provides its owner with one vote in company decision-making. While membership is not a requirement of employment, only employees can become members.\n\nAccording to Kenneth W. Stikkers, the Mondragon cooperatives in the Basque region of Spain have achieved a previously unknown level of economic democracy. Established in 1956, Mondragon has since become an economic model that transcends the capitalist-socialist dichotomy and thereby helps us to imagine creative solutions to current economic problems. Economist Richard D. Wolff argues that Mondragon is an example of \"a stunningly successful alternative to the capitalist organization of production.\"\n\nA consumers' cooperative is owned by its customers for their mutual benefit. Oriented towards service rather than profit, consumers often provide capital to launch or purchase the enterprise. In practice, consumer cooperatives price goods and services at competitive market rates. The co-op returns profits to the consumer/owner according to a formula instead of paying a separate investor group.\n\nIn his book, \"From Mondragon To America\", Greg MacLeod argues that \"in consumer cooperatives where the customer-members own the capital and the employees are subject to capital, the normal dynamic is the adversarial relationship of labor to capital. Sometimes the result is strikes of labor against management.\" In some cooperatives, however, consumer/owners are workers as well. For example, Mondragon has developed a large \"hybrid\" cooperative which sells groceries and furniture in Spain.\n\nConsumer cooperatives vary in organization and operations, but typically follow the Rochdale Principles. Consumer cooperatives may also form Co-operative Federations. These may take the form of co-operative wholesale societies, through which they collectively purchase goods at wholesale prices and, in some cases, cooperatively own factories. Alternatively, they may be members of Co-operative unions.\n\nConsumer cooperatives are very different from \"discount clubs,\" which charge annual fees in exchange for a discount on purchases. The club is not owned or governed by the members and profits go to investors, not to members.\n\nMost food co-ops are consumer cooperatives that specialize in grocery products. Members patronize the store and vote in elections. The members elect a board of directors to make high-level decisions and recruit managers. Food cooperatives were originally established to provide fresh, organic produce as a viable alternative to packaged imports. The ideas of local and slow food production can help local farmers prosper, in addition to providing consumers with fresher products. But the growing ubiquity of organic food products in corporate stores testifies to broadening consumer awareness, and to the dynamics of global marketing.\n\nFor example, associated with national and international cooperative communities, Portland Oregon cooperatives manage to survive market competition with corporate franchise. As Lee Lancaster, financial manager for Food Front, states, \"cooperatives are potentially one democratic economic model that could help guide business decisions toward meeting human needs while honoring the needs of society and nature\". He admits, however, it is difficult to maintain collaboration among cooperatives while also avoiding integration that typically results in centralized authority.\n\nAccording to Thomas H. Greco, Jr., author of New Money for Healthy Communities \"The pinnacle of power in today's world is the power to issue money. If that power can be democratized and focused in a direction which gives social and ecological concerns top priority, then there may yet be hope for saving the world\". In this regard, he recommended the regionalization of currencies. Cook suggested that \"under the Bretton Woods system, the Federal Reserve acted as the world's central bank. This gave America enormous leverage over economic policies of its principal trading partners\". Cook claimed that developing nations were susceptible to exploitation mainly because they have no independent monetary system, using the U.S. dollar instead. This fed the fractional reserve banking system, operated by the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Japan. Developing nations paid heavily for this service through market interest rates and because banking profits and property ownership emigrate to financial centers elsewhere.\n\nAccording to Smith, \"Currency is only the representation of wealth produced by combining land (resources), labor, and industrial capital\". He claimed that no country was free when another country has such leverage over its entire economy. But by combining their resources, Smith claimed that developing nations have all three of these foundations of wealth:\n\nSmith further explained that developed countries need resources from the developing world as much as developing countries need finance capital and technology from the developed world. Aside from the superior military power of the imperial centers, the undeveloped world actually has superior bargaining leverage. With independent trading currencies, developing countries could barter their resources to the developed world for the latest industrial technologies. Barter avoids \"hard money monopolization\" and the unequal trade between weak and strong nations that result. Smith suggested that barter was how Germany resolved many financial difficulties \"put in place to strangle her\", and that \"World Wars I and II settled that trade dispute\". He claimed that their intentions of exclusive entitlement were clearly exposed when the imperial centers resorted to military force to prevent such barter and maintain monopoly control of others' resources.\n\nWorkplace democracy has been cited as a possible solution to the problems that arise from excluding employees from decision-making such as low-employee morale, employee alienation, and low employee engagement.\n\nPolitical theorist Isabelle Ferreras argues that there exists “a great contradiction between the democratic nature of our times and the reality of the work experience.” She argues that the modern corporation's two basic inputs, capital and labor, are treated in radically different ways. Capital owners of a firm wield power within a system of shareholder democracy that allocates voice democratically according to how much capital investment they place in the firm. Labor, on the other hand, rarely benefits from a system to voice their concerns within the firm. She argues that firms are more than just economic organizations especially given the power that they wield over people's livelihoods, environment, and rights. Rather, Ferreras holds that firms are best understood as political entities. And as political entities “it is crucial that firms be made compatible with the democratic commitments of our nations.”\n\nGermany and to a lesser extent the broader European Union have experimented with a way of workplace democracy known as Co-determination, a system that allows workers to elect representatives that sit on the board of directors of a company. Common criticisms of workplace democracy include that democratic workplaces are less efficient than hierarchical workplace, that managers are best equipped to make company decisions since they are better educated and aware of the broader business context.\n\nOne of the biggest criticisms against capitalism is that it concentrates economic and, as a result, political power in few hands. Theorists of economic democracy have argued that one solution to this unequal concentration of power is to create mechanism that distribute ownership of productive assets across the entire population. In \"Justice as Fairness: A Restatement\", John Rawls argues that only two systems could embody the main features of his principles of justice: liberal socialism or a property-owning democracy. Within property-owning democracy Rawls envisions widespread use of worker-owned cooperatives, partial-employee ownership of firms, systems to redistribute one's asset after death to prevent the accumulation of wealth, as well as a strong system of asset-based redistribution that encourages workers to own productive assets.\n\nOperating under the idea that making ownership more widespread leads to more equitable outcomes various proposals of asset-based welfare and asset-redistribution have been conceived. Individualistic and liberal asset-based welfare strategies such as the United Kingdom's Child Trust Fund of the United States Individual Development Account aimed to help people save money so that it could be invested on education, home-ownership, or entrepreneurship. More expirmental and left-leaning proposals include worker owned cooperatives, ESOPS, or Roemers coupon socialism.\n\nLudwig von Mises argued that ownership and control over the means of production belongs to private firms and can only be sustained by means of consumer choice, exercised daily in the marketplace. \"The capitalistic social order\", he claimed, therefore \"is an economic democracy in the strictest sense of the word\". Critics of this claim point out that consumers only vote on the value of the product when they make a purchase—they are not participating in the management of firms, or voting on how the profits are to be used.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58263785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58263785", "title": "El Psicópata", "text": "El Psicópata\n\nEl Psicópata () an unidentified Costa Rican serial killer responsible for the murders of 19 people from 1986 to 1996 in the cities of Cartago, Curridabat and Desamparados.\n\nHe was named by the Civil Police of Costa Rica in 1996, who were investigating similar crimes that were not solved in the previous years. However, according to Costa Rican legislation, the crime statute limit has expired, and if a suspect (or suspects) were found, they can no longer be charged for any of the murders.\n\nOther crimes have been attributed to him, such as those of El Descuartizador, who was never captured either.\n\nHis victims were single women or heterosexual couples who were usually attacked in places with little traffic during the night, especially in the area between Cartago, Curridabat and Desamparados, which at that time was called \"the triangle of death\".\n\nA facial composite of the murderer was drawn up, although nobody was arrested for the crimes. The analysis of the profile indicated that the subject in question was a man of Costa Rican origin who lived in Nicaragua (although this was just one possibility, among many others).\n\nIt was stated that the murderer could be a Costa Rican who in 1996 was 43 years old, and who was enrolled in the Nicaraguan guerilla (the Costa Rican authorities considered him dead as a result of this conflict, until the individual presented his vital records requesting a cédula de identidad). This was not confirmed either, and even this last suspect (a close relative of Ligia Camacho's family, whose name was not revealed) appeared before the authorities with his lawyer, in order to prove his innocence.\n\nA popular rumor but unconfirmed rumor was that the murderer could belong to one of the most powerful families in the country, more specifically to the family of former President José Figueres Ferrer, and for that reason was never discovered.\n\nPolice officials declared that the murderer had probably undergone some psychological trauma in his youth, related to his mother or perhaps some sentimental companion, due to the cruelty he showed against the women.\n\nThe then director of the OIJ said in 1996 that there was not the slightest evidence, except modus operandi and the weapon's caliber, and that these were just circumstantial evidence, never binding to a specific weapon.\n\nThe police managed to handle up to six different suspects.\n\nOn November 26, 1996, the OIJ issued a press release (the first since the beginning of the murders), in which they tried to outline who El Psícopata was.\n\nIn said statement, a telephone line and a postal address were offered to give confidential reports, although this did not have greater results. A change of direction of the investigation was also tried, because before that date, it was thought that El Psícopata was a murderer of a moralistic type, but then tried to orient his profile towards that of a lustful killer who killed to consummate his sexual fantasies, although the reason for this turn in the investigation was never clarified.\n\nThis redirection in the investigations was refuted even by professionals who had been involved in the investigation, such as the doctor Fernando Garzona Meseguer, who maintained that El Psícopata had no sexual purposes in his crimes, and that if sexual contact was made with his victims, it was the motivation for the murders.\n\nIt happened on June 14, 1987, in the victim's own home. Ligia was reading a book on her bed, when she was shot from outside her house, dying on the spot. This event contradicts the modus operandi of El Psícopata, since the latter used to attack in solitary places, and not in houses or neighborhoods. The only proof that it was the same criminal was a ballistic test.\n\nFingerprints were also found, but as no suspects were arrested, a positive comparison could not be made.\n\nThe last suspected crime of El Psícopata occurred on October 26, 1996, in the Patarrá area of Desamprados, south of San José. Mauricio Cordero and Ileana Álvarez were in a Nissan Sentra, when they were surprised by a stranger who forced them to abandon their car and walk 500m. Then he proceeded to shoot both of them. While no one was ever caught for this or other crimes attributed to El Psícopata, the Judicial Police of Costa Rica identified a modus operandi identical to the murders of those two and 19 other people, between 1986 and 1996.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3122083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3122083", "title": "Four Happiness Boys", "text": "Four Happiness Boys\n\nThe image of the Four Happiness Boys is believed to have begun during the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) by a child prodigy by the name of Jie Jin.\n\nBy the age of five, this remarkable child had studied and mastered the ancient Chinese ‘Four Books’ and the ‘Five Classics' and soon made his way into formal studies alongside other renowned Chinese scholars of the period. The \"Four Happiness Boys\" is the ancient Chinese image or drawing of two interconnected boys to create the illusion of four laughing boys lying in four directions. The picture symbolizes ‘four happiness joined together’, which basically were: (a) a wedding night, (b)passing the imperial exams, (c) running into a friend in a faraway place, and (d) rain after a long drought – instances all considered to be among life’s major fortunes in ancient China. \n\nTo this day, this image continues to be painted, drawn or cast in many materials including bronze, brass, and porcelain and is often given as a symbolic wedding gift for an abundant marriage, many generations of children, and good fortune and happiness.\n\n"}
{"id": "27155637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27155637", "title": "Gay Doctors Ireland", "text": "Gay Doctors Ireland\n\nGay Doctors Ireland (GDI) is an organisation of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) physicians and medical students in Ireland. It was founded in 2010 as Ireland's first association for LGBT doctors.\n\nGDI is an educational, professional and social support network for LGBT doctors and medical students. The group's inaugural annual general meeting featured Doctor Jesse Ehrenfeld of Harvard University.\n\nAmong the issues addressed by the group is the Irish Blood Transfusion Service controversial ban on gay men donating blood. In September 2011, GDI criticised Deputy Brian Walsh's efforts to deny surgery to transgender patients.\n\nIn April 2011, GDI announced an annual LGBT Health Research Bursary for medical students, the first of its kind in Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "13066623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13066623", "title": "Gibraltar National Day", "text": "Gibraltar National Day\n\nGibraltar National Day, celebrated annually on 10 September, is the official national day of the British overseas territory of Gibraltar. The day commemorates Gibraltar's first sovereignty referendum of 1967, in which Gibraltarian voters were asked whether they wished to either pass under Spanish sovereignty, or remain under British sovereignty, with institutions of self-government.\n\nIn 1992, the Chief Minister of Gibraltar Joe Bossano, travelled to the United Nations to argue for the right to self-determination inspiring the formation of the Self Determination for Gibraltar Group (SDGG) which was at the time headed by Dennis Matthews, a one-time active member of the Integration with Britain Party (IWBP). In order to generate popular support for self-determination they held the first National Day at John Mackintosh Square (the \"Piazza\") on 10 September 1992 to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the day the 1967 sovereignty referendum was held on. Coincidentally, the 10 September was also the day the Gibraltar Legislative Council became representative and responsible for internal affairs in 1964.\n\nThe first National Day was so successful that the avalanche of people that spontaneously turned up could not fit into John Mackintosh Square. The Government then took the responsibility of providing some help organising the event, since it fostered the right to self-determination that the Gibraltarians had been demanding at the United Nations since 1963. Therefore, the Government declared the 10 September a public holiday and gave the SDGG a grant for them to administer. In 1993 the venue was changed to the larger Grand Casemates Square, until it was again changed in 1998 to the even larger Naval Ground.\n\nThe active opposition of the Spanish Government to self-determination combined with the negative posture of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, strengthened the resolution of the vast majority of the Gibraltarians to press ahead for their decolonisation by the year 2000 in accordance with the high principles of the Charter and the target date set by the United Nations to eradicate colonialism.\n\nInstead, the British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, proposed joint sovereignty with Spain, which further intensified the sense of national identity reinforced by the National Day.\n\nThe 10th National Day, held in 2001 included a speech by William Serfaty, the then leader of the SDGG, which stressed the themes of national identity, unity, resisting Spanish pressure and decolonisation.\n\nSubsequent National Days have comparatively been quieter affairs with fewer invited guests and shorter political speeches. In 2007 the running of the political rally was taken over by the Government from the SDGG. In July 2008 the Government announced they would change the format of National Day to take effect the same year. The main change was their decision to no longer organise a political rally. The reason given was to emphasise civic celebration of Gibraltar rather than political revindication. Other changes included relocating the main event to the smaller John Mackintosh Square from Grand Casemates Square, appointing the Mayor of Gibraltar to conduct the main event rather than any political leader, the presentation of the Gibraltar Medallion of Honour and the reading of the Gibraltar National Day Declaration.\n\nThe official Gibraltar National Day events begin with a children’s fancy dress competition held at the lobby of the Parliament building in Main Street followed by a street party at John Mackintosh Square where food and drink stalls are set up providing Gibraltarian food such as calentita. Later a selected school choir sings songs with a Gibraltar theme, namely \"Llévame Donde Nací\" and \"Virgencita de Europa\". This is followed by the main event, the Mayor's recitation of the names of the recipients of the Gibraltar Medallion of Honour and the reading of the Gibraltar National Day Declaration from atop the City Hall's balcony. This was previously followed by the traditional release from atop the Parliament building of 30,000 red and white balloons, representing Gibraltar's population, which had featured on this day since 1992. The balloon release tradition has been ended this year due to the threat that it poses to wildlife, marine wildlife in particular. In the meantime, the school choir leads the general public in the singing of the Gibraltar Anthem.\n\nA funday for children featuring bouncy castles and fairground rides is then held at Grand Casemates Square. There is live music is played all afternoon at Governor’s Parade (the \"Piazzella\") and the Rock on the Rock Club, all free of charge, as opposed to the Gibraltar Music Festival a paid event leading up to national day.\n\nSince 2007, there has been a verbena for the older members of the community.\n\nThe day culminates with a half-hour-long synchronised fireworks display released from the Detached Mole in the Gibraltar Harbour at night followed by a rock concert.\n\nIn 2008, the Government announced that it would change the format of \"Gibraltar National Day\" celebrations with effect from this year. This followed the new Constitution in which Britain recognised Gibraltar's right to self-determination. The changes to the format were intended to emphasise Gibraltar's civic celebration rather than political revindication. There would be a gathering of the community at John Mackintosh Square for a collective celebratory event.\n\nThe SDGG returned from its state of inactivity and organised a political rally at Grand Casemates Square featuring the leader of the SDGG, and those of the Opposition political parties: Gibraltar Liberal Party and the Progressive Democratic Party. The event was scheduled to last a maximum of 30–45 minutes, allowing those participating to attend the main event of civic functions held at John Mackintosh Square. Speeches were short (around 5 minutes) kept to the leader of the SDGG and those of the other three parties. The event was well attended and seen as a success.\n\nThe GSD Government did not send a representative as they considered the main rally held at John Mackintosh Square to be the only \"official\" one.\n\nIn July 2008, the Chief Minister of Gibraltar, Peter Caruana announced that the Government would establish a civic award scheme, to be known as the Gibraltar Medallion of Honour, which would be awarded by Parliament. The award is formally presented annually by the Mayor of Gibraltar prior to the release of the balloons on \"Gibraltar National Day\".\n\nThe 2009 recipients of the Gibraltar Medallion of Honour were:\n\nSince 2008, a Gibraltar National Day declaration is read by the Mayor of Gibraltar at a civic rally held at outside the City Hall. It was first read out publicly by Mayor Solomon Levy.\n"}
{"id": "20790630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20790630", "title": "Greeks in Denmark", "text": "Greeks in Denmark\n\nThere is a small community of Greeks in Denmark. , Statistics Denmark recorded 1,180 people of Greek origin living in Denmark, with 954 in Zealand, 177 in Jutland, 48 in Funen, and 1 in Bornholm.\n\nUnskilled migrants began coming from Evros and Kastoria to Denmark in the 1960s; they worked primarily in the fur trade. Most of those initial migrants have returned to Greece as this sector became economically depressed. Political refugees fleeing the Greek military junta of 1967–1974 were numerically minor, but evoked a great deal of sympathy from the politically liberal Danish population. The number of Greek international students choosing Denmark as their destination showed an uptick after 1981, when Greece became a member of the European Economic Community.\n\nMany migrants consist of Greek men in international marriages with Danish women. The number of Greek women married to Danish men is smaller. Either way, such relationships have an unusually high rate of divorce. Spouses typically return to Greece if they separate from their Danish partner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52012119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52012119", "title": "Gynopedia", "text": "Gynopedia\n\nGynopedia is a nonprofit organization that runs an open resource wiki for sexual, reproductive and women's health care around the world. The website was founded by Lani Fried in 2016. The site focuses on women's health but aims to provide unbiased information for people of all sexes and genders. The main topics discussed on the site include access to contraception, emergency contraception, testing for sexually-transmitted diseases, medications, menstrual products, gynecologists, pregnancy, abortion, counseling services, women's resources and LGBTQ resources. As of November 2017, the website covers nearly 100 cities with extensive information on a variety of available resources regarding sexual and reproductive health. \n\nGynopedia is a primarily English-language website, but volunteer translators has begun translating pages into other languages, such as French. The website aims to add more languages and become a valuable resource to many users around the globe.\n"}
{"id": "46618307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46618307", "title": "Insular Danish", "text": "Insular Danish\n\nInsular Danish (Danish: \"Ømål\") are the traditional Danish dialects spoken on the islands of Zealand, Langeland, Funen, Falstria, Lolland and Møn. They are recorded in the Dictionary of Danish Insular Danish (\"Ømålsordbogen\") which has been collected since the 1920s, and published in biannual volumes since 1992. There are significant differences between the different insular varieties, but they also share a number of features. A major difference is between Modern Danish and the traditional insular dialects are that some of them lack the stød but kept the tonal accent. Also, they kept three noun genders.\n\nInsular Danish kept three grammatical genders, but most other Danish varieties reduced the gender system to two. By 1900, Zealand insular dialects had been reduced to two genders under the influence from the standard language, but other varieties like Funen dialect had not.\n\nThe old Insular or Funen dialect could also use personal pronouns in certain cases, particularly to refer to animals. A classic example in traditional Funen dialect is the sentence \"Katti, han får unger\" (literally, \"The cat, he is having kittens\"). The cat is masculine in gender and so referred to as \"han\" (\"he\") even if it is a female cat.\n"}
{"id": "10310498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10310498", "title": "Inuit doll", "text": "Inuit doll\n\nInuit dolls are made out of soapstone and bone, materials common to the people of northern Alaska, Greenland and Northern Canada. Many are clothed with animal fur or skin. Their clothing articulates the traditional style of dress necessary to survive cold winters, wind, and snow. Dolls could have been gifts to young Inuit girls, to be used as teaching devices and passing down of culture. With these dolls, young girls learn various skills necessary for their survival such as skin preparation, cutting & sewing, proper use of materials, designs and significance of symbols in their cultures. Inuit dolls were enjoyed by both young and old Inuit individuals and give an excellent insight into Inuit culture.\n\nThe earliest found dolls were made by Inuit living in Brooman Point Village, Bathurst Island over two thousand years ago. Since the migration of humans over the land bridge in the Bering Strait, these dolls were common in Inuit culture. While the history of creating these dolls are unknown, the tradition may have started over 1,000 years ago. There are at least two different types of Inuit dolls from the Canadian region, Play dolls and Collector's Dolls.\n\nAt the young age of ten, Inuit girls are taught by their mothers how the clothe a family. This is mainly taught by learning to sew making their own dolls with removable clothing. They learn about the roles of wives and mothers by playing with these dolls. Once Inuit people moved to camps and settlements, young girls started going to school and started learning different kinds of lessons and schools. This change in education for young Inuit girls, the play dolls began disappearing. The last generation to grow up with the play dolls were girls from the early 1950s.\n\nThese dolls were typically made by Inuit people for people in the south. Some are owned by museums and others are owned by private collectors and institutions. The collector’s dolls were divided into four categories: dolls dressed in traditional fur garments, wearing fabric garments, made by elders from Spence Bay, and lastly made by the best dollmakers in Spence Bay.\n\nThe dolls made by elders are full of energy and imagination. They are sculptures made from fur and fabric. Some are reminders of what the culture used to be like and others are just fantasy of the imagination the dollmaker. The dolls made by Spence Bay’s best dollmakers are full of intense artistry. Dolls could have been made from caribou antler to create a certain texture. Dollmakers could have also used soapstone to create eyes and generate certain emotions and feelings. Dollmakers have also made dolls specifically called Packing Dolls that generally wear an amauti. Packing dolls refer to dolls that have a parka that is designed with a baby pouch tailored as part of the mother’s clothing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908727", "title": "Iranian Arabs", "text": "Iranian Arabs\n\nIranian Arabs ( \"ʿArab Īrān\"; \"Arabhāye Irān\") refers to the citizens or residents of Iran who are ethnically Arab. Iranian Arabs form around 2% of Iran's population which is around 1.5 million people.\n\nThe Arab presence in Iran did not begin with the Arab conquest of Persia in 633 AD. For centuries, Iranian rulers had maintained contacts with Arabs outside their borders, dealt with Arab subjects and client states (such as those of Iraq and Yemen), and settled Arab tribesmen in various parts of the Iranian plateau. It follows that the \"Arab\" conquests and settlements were by no means the exclusive work of Arabs from the Hejaz and the tribesmen of inner Arabia. The Arab expedition to Iran began before the Muslim conquests and continued as a result of the joint exertions of the civilized Arabs (ahl al-madar) as well as the desert Arabs (ahl al-wabar).\n\nAccording to the Minorities at Risk Project 2001, about 40% of Arabs are unskilled workers living in urban areas. The Arabs in the rural areas are primarily farmers and fishermen. The Arabs living along the Persian Gulf coastal plains are mostly pastoral nomads. Tribal loyalties are strong among rural Arabs, but also have an influence in urban areas. These affect Arab socialisation and politicisation.\n\nPayame Noor University, which has 229 campuses throughout the country, in 2008 declared that Arabic will be the \"second language\" of the university, and that all its services will be offered in Arabic, concurrent with Persian.\n\nShapur II the Great (309–379 A.D.) of the Sassanid Empire, after a punitive expedition across the Persian Gulf early in his reign, transplanted several clans of the Taghleb to Dārzīn (Daharzīn) near Bam, several clans of the Abd al-Qays and Tamīm to Haǰar (the Kūh-e Hazār region) southeast of Kermān, several clans of the Bakr ben Wāʾel to Kermān, and several clans of the Hanzala to Tavvaz, near present-day Dālakī in Fārs.\n\nAlthough after the Arab conquest of the Sassanid Persian empire in the 7th century, many Arab tribes settled in different parts of Iran, it is the Arab tribes of Khuzestan that have retained their identity in language, culture, and Shia Islam to the present day. But ethno-linguistic characteristics of the region must be studied against the long and turbulent history of the province, with its own local language \"khuzi\", which may have been of Elamite origin and which gradually disappeared in the early medieval period. The immigration of Arab tribes from outside the province was also a long-term process. There was a great influx of Arab-speaking immigrants into the province from the 16th to the 19th century, including the migration of the Banu Kaab and Banu Lam. There were attempts by the Iraqi regime during the Iran–Iraq War (1980–88) to generate Arab nationalism in the area but without any palpable success.\n\nSampling NRY diversity, it was found that the Y-DNA haplogroups F and J2 are carried at very high frequency among the Iranian Arabs—those two markers alone accounting for over half of Iranian Arab haplogroups. This high ratio of haplogroup F, in particular, relates them, in a genetic sense, to peoples of the Eastern Mediterranean and of the Barbary Coast, while an elevated frequency of haplogroup J-M172 is typical of Near Eastern peoples and reflective of the genetic legacy of early agriculturalists in, and their diffusion from, the Neolithic Near East \"c\". 8000–4000 BCE. Haplogroup R1a1, and R1, typical of Indo-Iranian groups, is also important, occurring in over 11% of the sample; haplogroup G is present in over 5%.\n\nMost Iranian Arabs in Khūzestān Province are bilingual, speaking Arabic as their mother tongue, and Persian as a second language. The variety of Arabic spoken in the province is Khuzestani Arabic, which is a Mesopotamian dialect shared by Arabs across the border in Iraq. It can be easily understood by other Arabic-speakers.\n\nFrom the immigrant Arab tribes of Khuzestan (from the present-day Iraq), the Banu Kaab at Dawraq (the later Fallāhīya and the present-day Shadegan) and the Mawlāʾī at Hoveyzeh can be mentioned.\n\nThe well-known Bani Turuf tribe is settled in the Dasht e Azadegan (formerly Dasht-e Mīshān) around the town of Hūzagān (formerly Hoveyzeh), and consists of seven tribes, the Sovārī, Marzaā, Shorfa, Banī Sāleh, Marvān, Qāṭeʿ, and Sayyed Nemat. North of the lands of the ʿAnāfeja of the Āl Katīr, in the area called Mīānāb, between the Kārūn and Karkheh Rivers, dwell several Arab tribes, of which the best known are the Kaab (probably an offshoot of the Banī Kaʿb of southern Khuzestan), the ʿAbd al khānī, the Mazraa, the Al Bū Rāwīya, and the Sādāt. These tribes gradually immigrated into Iran during and after the early years of the Qajar period.\n\nKhamseh Arab nomads live in eastern Fars Province (From Lar and close surrounding areas to Khorrambid and Bavanat). Arabs that live in eastern Fars Province and Hormozgan mostly belong to the tribes of Banu Tamim, Banu Kaab and Banu Hammed.\n\nMost Khorasani-Arabs belong to the tribes of Sheybani, Zangooyi, Mishmast, Khozaima and Azdi. Khorasan Arabs are Persian speakers and only a few speak Arabic as their mother tongue. Khorasani-Arabs in the cities Birjand, Mashhad and Nishapur are a big ethnic group.\n\nElton Daniel in \"The History of Iran\" (Greenwood Press, 2001), states that the Arabs of Iran \"are concentrated in the province of Khuzistan and number about half a million\". The \"Historical Dictionary of Iran\" puts the number at 1 million. Iranian Arabs form 2% of Iran's population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45079721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45079721", "title": "Irish Exhibition of Living Art", "text": "Irish Exhibition of Living Art\n\nThe Irish Exhibition of Living Art (IELA) was a yearly exhibition of Irish abstract expressionism and avant-garde Irish art that was started in 1943 by Mainie Jellett.\n\nDuring World War II, Ireland remained mostly uninvolved in the war that swept through most the rest of Europe, known only as \"the Emergency\" in Ireland. Taking a \"neutral\" stance in the war, Ireland did not engage directly in the war on either side and declined to make any kind of established allegiance to the Axis or Allied powers. As a result, Ireland experienced a period of isolation from the rest of the Western world, with few Irishmen travelling abroad and few foreigners travelling to Ireland. This period of isolation set in motion a period of criticism and questioning of the fledgling country's national identity and ideals, with various factions unhappy with the status quo in the island nation. Some of the primary concerns for those unsatisfied with the state of the Ireland at the time included a government unconcerned with the republican ideals the nation was created with, widespread poverty in Ireland, and a general inability for the nation to be a major player on the world stage capable of defending itself. With these concerns and isolation, the Irish people sought to question the direction Ireland was headed in. And in this war period and the time that immediately followed, Ireland and its artists also sought to question what constituted \"Irish art\" and how that would impact Irish identity.\n\nArt in Ireland during the 1930s and 1940s still primarily consisted of traditional representational art. Championed by the Royal Hibernian Academy and the National College of Art, this traditionalist art remained the favored style of visual artistic creation following the Emergency period. Many Irish artists rejected the established institutions and sought philosophical inspiration from other fields, particularly that of literature. Although it was not until the late 1930s that the character of Irish art was to be seriously challenged as Irish artists began seeking an Irish artistic identity. With artists like Mainie Jellett leading the way, artists of Ireland, who more frequently received no formal education due to some of the institutions more restrictive policies, found an outlet to challenge the traditionalist movements in Ireland through organizations like the IELA.\n\nPrior to the opening of the IELA, only one major exhibition took place each year in Dublin, which was the Annual Exhibition of the Royal Hibernian Academy. The RHA, and other major art institutions in Ireland at this time, supported art that accurately portrayed reality. And while the established art forums favored traditional representational art, there was some push back from groups of artists in favor of modernist art. One of the most well-known of these prior to the IELA was known as the White Stag Group which was formed in the late 1930s. The White Stag Group, formed by Kenneth Hall and Basil Rakoczi, had middle-class English roots that eventually took hold in Dublin and the rest of Ireland. It wasn't until organizations like the IELA and White Stag Group came about that non-traditional Irish art had a means of being displayed in a way that was accessible and popular.\n\nThe IELA was formed in 1943 after a group of middle-class artists in Ireland sought to oppose the traditional hegemony created by the Royal Hibernian Academy (RHA) and the National College of Art in Ireland. Artists in this group included Norah McGuinness, Mainie Jellett, Evie Hone, Fr. Jack Hanlon and Louis le Brocquy, among others. While not all of them subscribed completely to the modernism of the rest of western Europe and the United States, these artists did seek to stray off the path established by Irish art institutions. Many artists that founded the IELA were influenced by the dissenting Impressionist art circles in Paris who broke away from the French Academy. Even though they understood this may cause friction with established institutions in Ireland, many of the founders saw the French as an example to be followed. However, many artists managed to form a delicate balance, seeing as artists who displayed their work in the IELA also displayed pieces through the other traditional institutions such as the RHA. Nonetheless, the IELA's main goal was to provide a forum for artists who sought to reshape the Irish artistic landscape and provided them the means through which to do that.\n\nThe beginnings of the IELA can be traced to an open criticism of the RHA by Jellett which ultimately led to other modernist artists like le Brocquy having their works rejected for exhibitions hosted annually by the RHA. In response to this, Jellett and other modernist artists established the IELA to create a forum to display the work of artists regardless of what school or style they subscribed to. Reviews of the IELA's first show in 1943 indicated the division in the art world over artistic identity and creativity. In some instances, this division was deeply entrenched, especially in the National College of Art, which was opposed to modernist movements for some time. However, this opposition was not felt as strongly in every established institution in the country. Even though steadfastness for traditional art was common, much of the art world in Ireland remained fairly well connected and eased their opposition to the tide of modernism coming from continent-inspired artists. Both the modernist and traditionalist camps had their work displayed by the same institutions in some instances. Ultimately, this coexistence allowed for institutions like IELA to be friendly with organizations such as the RHA, without which the IELA would have no traction in the Dublin art world.\n\nNot only did the IELA seek to break from the traditional norms of Irish art, it was displayed some progressive trends for its time, whether intentionally or otherwise. For example, women artists played a critical role in the formation and establishment of the IELA. The first two presidents of the Exhibition, Mainie Jellett and Norah McGuinness, were women who held the position during the formative years of the Exhibition. Jellett, who served as the president before her death in 1944, played a key role in its formation, and McGuinness, who served for over 20 years after its foundation, played a critical role in maintaining the direction that the IELA stood for. In the decades following its conception, the IELA became a fixture in the Irish art world. However, while they did become established, they did not allow themselves to lose sight of the founding principles of the institution. True to the spirit of the IELA, the original management stepped down and handed off the Exhibition to a younger generation of artists in 1972. The IELA continued to influence young artists well into the future.\n\nTo this day, the IELA remains a showcase for contemporary art and has since expanded to include other art forms such as performance, video, and installation art. The IELA has played an enormous role in developing the Irish art scene and providing an outlet through which the artists of Ireland can display their works while also challenging the norm in Irish art, even being called a part of the \"birth of Modernism in the visual arts in Ireland.\" The Exhibition even expanded to include postmodernist art to expose both the public and artists alike to new developing styles.\n"}
{"id": "3076848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076848", "title": "James Ibori", "text": "James Ibori\n\nJames Onanefe Ibori (born 4 August 1959) is a Nigerian politician who was Governor of Delta State in Nigeria from 29 May 1999 to 29 May 2007. An ethnic Urhobo by descent, Ibori is a member of the People's Democratic Party (PDP). He is an influential leader in the Niger Delta region and a national figure in Nigeria.\n\nBorn to the family of late Chief Ukavbe Ibori and Mrs. Comfort Oji Ibori of Otefe in Oghara clan, Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State, he attended Baptist High School, Oghareki, now Oghareki Grammar School, before proceeding to the University of Benin where he obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Economics and Statistics. \nIbori moved to London, England in the 1980s where he married his wife, Theresa. He worked as a cashier at Wickes DIY store in Ruislip, Middlesex. In 1990, the couple were arrested for theft from the store, and fined £300. In 1991, he was convicted of handling a stolen credit card, and fined £100.\n\nReturning to Nigeria, between 1994 and 1997 he served as a consultant to the Federal Government of President Sani Abacha, in the areas of public policy formulation and implementation. \nIn 1999, Ibori took out a mortgage on a property in Abbey Road, London. To mask his previous convictions in the UK, he obtained a false birth certificate and then passport, medically impossible as it was dated a month after his elder sisters birthdate.\n\nIbori's political career began in 1990 when he joined the National Republican Convention (NRC). In 1991, he was nominated to contest for the Federal House of Representatives seat, to represent Ethiope Federal Constituency. He lost the election to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate.\n\nWhen the Sani Abacha Transition Programme kicked off, he joined the Grassroots Democratic Movement (GDM). The GDM clinched a good number of local, state and federal positions, including one of the three senatorial seats in the state. The transition programme was abruptly terminated with the death of Abacha. Ibori then with the leaders of other defunct political groups in Delta State, formed the Delta National Congress (DNC).\n\nThe DNC later merged with many others of like ideas to birth the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It was on the platform of the PDP that he contested and won the January 9, 1999 Delta State Gubernatorial Election.\n\nProposed as governor of Delta State, under Nigerian law Ibori had to swear that he had no previous convictions. Using the false birth certificate and passport that he had used for the mortgage application in London, he passed the tests falsely, and was elected to become the governor from 1999. In 2003, he was re-elected as governor for another four-year term.\n\nAt the PDP's ruling party's pre-election convention in 2006, Ibori was on hand to lift up the hand of the victorious Umaru Yar'Adua. After Yar'Adua was selected as their presidential candidate, Ibori was accused of bank-rolling Yar'Adua's 2007 campaign, and promised a Vice-Presidential position in return. But after Yar'Adua died in office, Vice-President Goodluck Jonathan succeeded Yar'Adua, an avowed political opponent of Ibori.\n\nIbori's corruption charges started with filling of petitions by his kinsmen under the auspices of Delta State Elders and Stateholders Forum influenced by the foremost Ijaw leader, Chief E. K. Clark, OFR, CON who was also the former Minister of Information. The petition was sent to Nuhu Ribadu,the head of Nigeria's financial crimes agencies who initially failed to act on the petition which made the Forum, who, with other activists, revealed Ibori's crimes and made spirited efforts to bring Ibori and EFCC before court to compel Ibori's prosecution with the aid of their lawyer Kayode Ajulo.\n\nIn 2007, the Metropolitan Police raided the London offices of lawyer Bhadresh Gohil. Hidden in a wall behind a fireplace, they found computer hard drives containing details of a myriad off-shore companies, run for Ibori by Gohil, fiduciary agent Daniel Benedict McCann, and corporate financier Lambertus De Boer. All of these men were later jailed for a total of 30 years.\n\nAs a result of these corruption allegations, the United Kingdom courts froze Ibori's assets there, valued at about £17 million ($35 million), in early August 2007. His wife, Nkoyo, was arrested at Heathrow Airport in London on 1 November 2007, in connection with the probe of the assets of her husband, particularly in the United Kingdom. She was released after being questioned. In an exclusive interview with CNN, Ibori denied allegations against him claiming they were politically motivated. He accused Nuhu Ribadu and the UK Courts of playing politics.\n\nOn December 12, 2007, Ibori was arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at the Kwara State Lodge in Asokoro, Abuja. The charges he faces include theft of public funds, abuse of office, and money laundering. These corruption charges brought against Ibori by the government of former President Obasanjo are among many begun by anticorruption czar Nuhu Ribadu against former officials of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP. Ribadu additionally alleged that Ibori attempted to bribe him to drop the charges with a cash gift of $15 million, which Ribadu immediately lodged in the Central Bank of Nigeria CBN. The cash remains in the CBN as an exhibit.\n\nOn December 17, 2009, A Federal High Court sitting in Asaba, Delta State, discharged and acquitted Ibori of all 170 charges of corruption brought against him by EFCC. The EFCC filed a notice of appeal against the December 17, 2009 judgement, and has begun a new round of investigations on the former governor following a petition by members of the Delta State Elders, Leaders and Stakeholders Forum, which was made available to the public in March 2010.\n\nIn April 2010, about three months after the take over of government by Goodluck Jonathan, Ibori's case file was reopened. A new allegation that he embezzled N40 billion ($266 million) was pressed against him. Attempts to arrest him were unsuccessful. It was reported that he fled from Abuja to Lagos and then to the creeks of Oghara, his homeland in the Niger Delta. It was reported that he has been guarded by armed militias and they once had a shoot out with government security forces. He claimed that the charges were frivolous and that he was a victim of political persecution.\n\nIn April 2010, Ibori fled Nigeria, prompting the EFCC to request the assistance of Interpol. On 12 July 2010 the Governor of the CBN, Malam Sanusi Lamido revealed that Ibori had used Delta State as collateral for N40 billion loan when he was governor.\n\nOn 13 May 2010, Ibori was arrested in Dubai, United Arab Emirates under Interpol arrest warrants, issued from United Kingdom courts and enacted by the Metropolitan Police. Ibori was granted bail pending an extradition hearing. A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police confirmed that the United Kingdom would \"seek Mr Ibori's extradition\".\n\nThe Nigerian government and the United Kingdom then agreed to work together on Ibori's extradition to the United Kingdom. even as his movement became restricted by the Dubai authority. Punch Newspaper however reported on 27 May 2010, that Ibori was seeking political asylum in Dubai.\n\nIbori's case and extradition became one of the longest, most complex and expensive operations mounted by Scotland Yard in recent years. Prosecutors alleged that companies owned by Ibori and his family were beneficiaries from the sale of state assets, including shares in a mobile telephone operator, as well as crude oil deliveries. The EFCC confirmed on Thursday June 10, 2010, that Ibori was in custody awaiting extradition to the UK.\n\nIn London, where Ibori is being sought in the case of money laundering, the authority continued with the prosecution of his associates who were in the dock for helping Ibori to launder money.\n\nOn 1st and 2 June 2010, UK juries found James Ibori's sister, Christine Ibie-Ibori and his associate, Udoamaka Okoronkwo, guilty on counts of money laundering, in a verdict delivered at the Southwark Crown Court, London. Mr. James Ibori, via his media aide released a statement questioning the validity of the verdict which he claimed absolved the two other women, Ms Okoronkwo and Adebimpe Pogoson who were charged alongside his sister. The jury's verdict of 2 June 2010 however returned a guilty decision against Okoronkwo as well. Christine Ibie-Ibori and Udoamaka Okoronkwo were each sentenced to 5 years in prison on Monday 7 June 2010 by the UK court even as the defense counsel pleaded for mercy that the convicts were merely manipulated by James Ibori.\n\nOn 27 February 2012, accused of stealing US$250 million from the Nigerian public purse, Ibori pleaded guilty to ten counts of money laundering and conspiracy to defraud at Southwark Crown Court, London.\n\nFollowing the guilty plea entered by Ibori, the EFCC brought before an Appeal Court the 6 year old ruling of a Federal High Court in Asaba which acquitted Ibori in 2009. They EFCC sought the court to set aside the ruling of the lower court on the grounds that the presiding judge, Justice Awokulehin, erred in law while delivering his judgement. A three-man panel of justices at the Benin Division of the Court of Appeal on May 15, 2014 ruled that the ex- governor has a case to answer. With this judgment, the coast is clear for Ibori to face further trial in Nigeria upon the completion of his jail term in London.\n\nOn Tuesday, April 17, 2012, Ibori was sentenced to 13 years by Southwark Crown Court for his crimes. Among possessions confiscated were:\n\nAfter the sentencing hearing, Sue Patten, head of the Crown Prosecution Service central fraud group, said it would bid to confiscate the assets Ibori had acquired his riches \"at the expense of some of the poorest people in the world\".\n\nJames Ibori was released from prison in December 2016 after a court order. He served 4 years out of the 13 years he was sentenced to.\n\nThere is indication of his arraignment in Nigeria courts as it is believed that his conviction in United Kingdom is not related to several other financial improprieties committed by him.\n\n"}
{"id": "38469856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38469856", "title": "Kaidipang language", "text": "Kaidipang language\n\nKaidipang is a Philippine language spoken in North Sulawesi (Celebes), Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "18375549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18375549", "title": "Karagash", "text": "Karagash\n\nThe Karagash (or as they call themselves, Qaragashly, and Qaragash-nogailar) are one of the ethnic Nogay groups that live in the vicinity of Astrakhan, Russia. They are one of the two groups designated as the Astrakhan Tatars. The largest Karagash settlement is the town of Rastopulovka.\n\n"}
{"id": "24241423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24241423", "title": "Kasgar", "text": "Kasgar\n\nThe Kasgar are a Muslim community, found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India . After independence of Pakistan in 1947, many Kasgar migrated and resettled in Pakistan. They are now found mainly in Sindh province and have become part of Muhajir community.\n\nThe Kasgar (from Persian کاسگر meaning goblet-makers) are an occupational group who are makers of the \" kas kuza (Persian: کاسه کوزه)\" goblets and other earthen pots. They are concentrated in the Awadh region of Uttar Pradesh. Information regarding the origin of the community is obscure. They are similar to Muslim kumhar in west uttar pradesh.\nThe Kasgar are an endogamous community, and they practice both parallel and cross cousin marriages.\n\nAmong the Kasgar, the caste council known as a panchayat, plays an important role in resolving disputes among the community. They perceive themselves to be of Shaikh status. The community is split by sectarian affiliation, with some members belonging to the Shia sects, while others are Sunni.\n"}
{"id": "33611832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33611832", "title": "Kinga language", "text": "Kinga language\n\nKinga is a Bantu language of Tanzania. Magoma is ethnically distinct, and mutual intelligibility with the Magoma variety is low.\n"}
{"id": "51835803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51835803", "title": "Kurds in Israel", "text": "Kurds in Israel\n\nKurds in Israel refers to people of Kurdish origin residing in Israel. The Kurdish population in Israel is small and is mainly composed of individuals and families, who fled Iraq and Turkey during the Iraqi–Kurdish and the Kurdish–Turkish conflicts during the 20th century, as well as temporal residents arriving in Israel for medical care.\n\nHistorically, a small Arabized population of Kurdish origins exists in Galilee and Jerusalem area, though it has mostly intermixed with local Arabs; their exact numbers are not available since they are counted as ethnic Arabs in the official Israeli census. Some Arabized families of Kurdish background can still be identified by specific surnames.\n\nThe Kurdish population in Israel is small and is mainly composed of individuals and families, who fled Iraq and Turkey during the Iraqi–Kurdish and the Kurdish–Turkish conflicts during the 20th century. In 2006, the number of Kurdish refugees from Turkey was estimated at 200. Another estimate for both Iraqi and Turkish Kurds was 150 persons in 2007.\n\nIn March 2001, a group of 19 Kurdish men entered Israel via Lebanon, asking for asylum, but were denied. In mid-2001, a group of 42 Kurdish refugees attempted to enter Israel via Lebanon, illegally crossing the Israeli–Lebanese border, but were returned to Lebanon.\n\nIn 2007, 40 Iraqi Kurdish children, mostly from Iraqi Kurdistan, were hosted with their parents and medically treated in Israel, as part of the project initiated by Israeli \"Save a Child’s Heart Organization\" (SACH). In 2013, it was reported that Israel accepted three Kurdish children from Iraqi Kurdistan for medical treatment. The children were settled into Wolfson Medical Center in Holon, southern Tel Aviv area. They were some of the 183 children with Iraqi nationality, entering Israel for medical treatment since the establishment of the program.\n\nIn January 2015, Yazidi organizations made an official request from Israeli government to absorb Yazidi refugees from Iraq. There was no official statement by Israeli government as a result, but Yazidi sources claimed that refugee absorption took place and thanked Israeli government. There was no response from Israeli Parliament members, upon asking them on this matter of absorbing Yazidi refugees.\n\nIsrael is a home to some 200,000 Jews of Kurdistani origins, who are mostly descended from nearly 50 thousand Kurdish Jews evacuated from Iraq during Operation Ezra and Nehemiah in the early 1950s. Israeli Jews of Kurdistani background preserve ties with the ethnic Kurdish communities in the Middle East, including with the Kurdish individuals residing in Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "28782976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28782976", "title": "Lovari", "text": "Lovari\n\nLovari (\"horse-dealer\", from Hungarian \"ló\", \"horse\") is a subgroup of the Romani people, who speak their own dialect, influenced by Hungarian and West Slavic dialects. They live predominantly throughout Central Europe (Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and Germany) as well as in Romania, Croatia, France, Italy, Greece and Ukraine.\n\nThe \"Lovari\" are a Romani people who speak a dialect influenced by Hungarian and West Slavic dialects. The Lovari are further divided into the Machvaya, named after the Mačva region, which they settled from modern day Hungary.\n\nTheir historical trade was horse-trading and fortune-telling.\n\nLovari's traditional costume is based on traditional Central European Romani national costumes and is seldom used nowadays. They also have very strict contamination customs.\n\nTucson, Arizona and Hamilton, Ontario both house large numbers of Machvaya as do the United States, Canada, Brazil and the United Kingdom as a whole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1472296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1472296", "title": "Ngalop people", "text": "Ngalop people\n\nThe Ngalop ( ; \"earliest risen people\" or \"first converted people\" according to folk etymology) are people of Tibetan origin who migrated to Bhutan as early as the ninth century. Orientalists adopted the term \"Bhote\" or Bhotiya, meaning \"people of Bod (Tibet)\", a term also applied to the Tibetan people, leading to confusion, and now is rarely used in reference to the Ngalop.\n\nThe Ngalop introduced Tibetan culture and Buddhism to Bhutan and comprise the dominant political and cultural element in modern Bhutan. Furthermore, cultural, ethnic, and linguistic identity in Bhutan are not always mutually exclusive. For these reasons, Ngalops are often simply identified as Bhutanese. Their language, Dzongkha, is the national language and is descended from Old Tibetan. The Ngalop are dominant in western and northern Bhutan, including Thimphu and the Dzongkha-speaking region. The term Ngalop may subsume several related linguistic and cultural groups, such as the Kheng people and speakers of Bumthang language.\n\nThe Ngalop are concentrated in the western and central valleys of Bhutan, whose total population in 2010 was about 708,500. Together the Ngalop, Sharchops and tribal groups constituted up to 72 percent of the population in the late 1980s according to official Bhutanese statistics. The 1981 census claimed Sharchops represented 30% of the population and Ngalops about 17%. \"The World Factbook\", however, estimates the \"Bhote\" Ngalop and Sharchop populations together to total about 50 percent, or 354,200. Assuming Sharchops still outnumber Ngalops some three to two, the total Ngalop population is around 141,700.\n\nNgalops speak Dzongkha. As Ngalops are politically and culturally dominant in Bhutan, Dzongkha is the language of government and education throughout the kingdom. Other groups that identify as culturally Ngalop speak the Kheng and Bumthang languages. To a large extent, even the Sharchops of eastern Bhutan, who speak Tshangla, have adopted Ngalop culture and may identify as Ngalop.\n\nNgalops largely follow Tibetan Buddhism, particularly the Drukpa Lineage of the Kagyu school of Vajrayana that is the state religion of Bhutan. A significant number also follow the Nyingma school, which was dominant in early Bhutanese history.\n\nBon practitioners are a minority, although the practices of the Ngalops, like that of most Bhutanese, are characterized by incorporated elements of the older ethnic religion that is also referred to by the term \"Bon\".\n\nThe primary agricultural crops are Bhutanese red rice, potatoes, barley, and other temperate climate crops. Ngalop people build houses out of timber, stone, clay, and brick. The Ngalop are also known for building large fortress-monasteries known as dzongs that now serve as government offices. The Druk Gyalpo and most of the government are Ngalop, and all citizens of the country are required to follow the national dress code, the driglam namzha, which is Ngalop in origin.\n\nThe Ngalops follow matrilineal lines in the inheritance of land and livestock.\n\n"}
{"id": "24722165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24722165", "title": "Nicaraguan Red Cross", "text": "Nicaraguan Red Cross\n\nThe Nicaraguan Red Cross (Cruz Roja Nicaragüense), is a member of the Red Cross Society and the national ambulance service in Nicaragua. Founded on January 10, 1934, it remains the country's emergency medical response organization. The Nicaraguan Red Cross has its headquarters in Managua.\n\n"}
{"id": "25170461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25170461", "title": "Publication cycle", "text": "Publication cycle\n\nPublication cycle is the process through which authors take their ideas and put them into viewable form. This includes all forms of publication, from initial research reports, to articles posted on websites, and the commonly recognized magazine articles and books.\n\nThe cycle begins with the authors deciding on what topic they wish to publish about. This can be a very quick step for some authors, who decided on a topic and develop it more later in the process, or the author can take a large amount of time fully developing a complete idea.\n\nThis is when authors take their ideas and find out all the information that is readily available. For scientific publication, this includes previously done experiments as well has conducting more experiments that focus mainly on the chosen topic. For literary authors, this step includes reading previous publications and to see if any other authors have published work similar to theirs.\n\nInformal communication is when authors get together and exchange ideas without there being any formal purposes or any structured agenda to guide them along. This includes dinners, going to the bar, phone calls, parties, and small gatherings.\n\nIdea protection is when authors formalize their ideas and reserve their rights to them. This includes patents, copyright, trademark, registered trademarks, and creative commons. It is important for authors to protect their work so that others do not take credit for their work.\n\nThis can be done in many different ways. There are formal reports, such as lab reports, research documents, and other white paper publications. Informal versions include posts on person web pages, blogs, and new forms like facebook posts.\n\nThese meetings include both formal and inform forms of communication and are great ways not only to present your findings but also begin the cycle. Presentations and discussions are held to publicize research.\n\nOne of the more public and common types of publications, these are one of the most popular types of printed publications. These are used at many levels such as small towns, college campuses, and regional or national levels.\n\nThese vary a lot throughout their process, but they generally have the same objective in mind: to present an idea or position These can range from a personal to corporate journal and have many various subjects. Depending on the level, the journal article may be peer-reviewed by others in the field or a dedicated editing staff.\n\nThis is possibly one of the longest processes due to the many levels of review that go into the production of a book. There are usually many editions of books because each must be reviewed and revised before it actually goes into production. Also, many revisions to manuscripts may be made because of grammatical errors or a focus that needs to be fleshed out in more detail.\n\nThere are many varieties of these documents. They can range from bills, deeds, constitutions or government contracts. These carry the most complexity with them because it must be kept updated regularly to reflect the current version of the document. Amendments to government documents make these documents have a longer publication cycle than most other documents because they must constantly be revised and it has to publicly be known that an amendment has been added and usually there are a series of checks these documents must pass through before their publication cycle has ended.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3622054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3622054", "title": "Punjabi Shaikh", "text": "Punjabi Shaikh\n\nPunjabi Shaikh () are prominent branch of Shaikh in South Asia.\n\nSheikh (Arabic and Punjabi: شيخ ), is an Arabic word meaning elder of a tribe, lord, honorable revered old man, or Islamic scholar. In South Asia it is used as an ethnic title generally attributed to Muslim trading families.\n\nThe Punjabi Shaikh are a multi-ethnic community descended from native traders who converted to Islam. \nIn South Asia, after the advent of Islam, some higher and lower castes in India), such as Brahmins, Baniyas and Khatris, converted to Islam in the Punjab region and adopted this title. They are known as Punjabi Shaikh (Punjabi) پنجابی شيخ. Punjabi Shaikhs are mostly urban and non agriculturist but a few families also cultivate their own land in the western districts. Their main professions are business and public service. In Punjab, they stereotypically have a reputation for business acumen. Many Rajput clans had converted to Islam, also known as Muslim Rajputs, during the early 12th century and were also given the honorary title of Sheikh (elder of the tribe) by Pirs. Sheikh Rajputs were the earliest in Rajputs to embrace Islam. Another example Khawaja Shaikh, with their sub-division the Chiniotis and the Qanungoh Shaikh are two such communities.\n\nBefore the independence of Pakistan in 1947, Khatris were living in all the districts of Punjab. Most of them were concentrated in the western districts. People from all classes; Khatris, Rajputs, Jats, Gujjars, Gakhars, etc.; had converted to Islam. The Siddiqui Shaikhs and Quraishi Shaikhs, Abbasis are communities that are the descended from these converted classes. They are found in Punjab as Punjabi speaking Shaikhs and also found in Sindh as Sindhi speaking Shaikhs. The Siddiqui Shaikhs are also living in northern India and also in Rajasthan, East Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana as well as in Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Telangana.\n\nThe Saraswat Brahmin, including Mohyals, adopted Sheikh as their title upon high caste conversions to Islam. The Kayastha also adopted Islam as Muslim Kayasths they became part of Shaikh community.\n\nMembers of the Shaikh community are those who after converting to Islam from different Hindu Upper castes formed Muslim Khatris, Sunni Khoja, Khawaja () and community belong many prominent Muslim trading families of South Asia such as Arora, Chawla, Sehgal, Paracha, Chattaa, Bathla adopted the title of Shaikh.\n\nQanungoh Shaikhs () belonged to all the districts of the Punjab. They have different lineages and represent families who were holding hereditary office of \"Qanungoh\" (\"Law readers\") during the Muslim period.\n\nThis designation was used in the Punjab and other provinces of India and Pakistan for hereditary registrar of landed property in a subdivision of a district.\n\nThe Siddiqui and farooqui are also clans of Shaikh found in the Punjab. The Siddiqui and Farooqui mostly are Muslim Kayasths who converted to Islam from the Hindu Kayastha caste. The These clans are also found in northern Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Pataudi and Haryana. They are usually Urdu speaking community while some can be found to be Punjabi speaking.\n\nThe Kashmiri Shaikh are another community living in different districts of the Kashmir and Punjab. They emigrated from Kashmir during the 19th and 20th centuries. Allama Shaikh Muhammad Iqbal belonged to this group. Muhammad Iqbal grandfather Shaikh Rafiq migrated to Sialkot in the early 19th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29290534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29290534", "title": "Real-time economy", "text": "Real-time economy\n\nReal-time economy is an environment where all the transactions between business entities are in digital format, increasingly generated automatically, and completed in real-time (as they occur) without store and forward processing. The real-time enterprise is a giant spreadsheet of sorts, in which new information, such as an order, is automatically processed and percolates through a firm's computer systems and those of its suppliers. The core objective of the real time economy is the reduction of latency between and within processes. Latency reduction will reduce capital occupancy costs by occupying assets (physical and labor) for less time.\n\nThe concept of Real-Time Economy was created and is under development by the University of Aalto in Finland.\n"}
{"id": "16012907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16012907", "title": "Resettlement and villagization in Ethiopia", "text": "Resettlement and villagization in Ethiopia\n\nResettlement and villagization in Ethiopia has been an issue from the late nineteenth century up to the present, due to the overcrowded population of the Ethiopian highlands. As the population of Ethiopia has increased in the twentieth century, the need to move inhabitants has only increased as available cropland per family declined to its current level of less than one hectare per farmer.\n\nThe policy of encouraging voluntary resettlement and villagization in Ethiopia began in 1958, when the government established the first known planned resettlement in Sidamo Province.\n\nShortly after the 1974 revolution, as part of their policy of land reform it became Derg policy to accelerate resettlement. Article 18 of the 1975 Land Reform Proclamation stated that \"the government shall have the responsibility to settle peasants or to establish cottage industries to accommodate those who, as a result of distribution of land . . . remain with little or no land.\" Accordingly, in 1975/76 there were eighty-eight settlement centers accommodating 38,818 households. The government conducted most of these resettlement programs under the auspices of the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission (RRC) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. By 1982 there were 112 planned settlements populated by more than 120,000 people. The settlements were concentrated mainly in the south and southwest. In 1984 Addis Ababa announced its intention to resettle 1.5 million people from the drought-affected northern regions to the south and southwest, where arable land was plentiful. By 1986, according to Mulatu Wubne, the government had resettled more than 600,000 people. More than 250,000 went to Welega; about 150,000 settled in the Gambela area of Illubabor; and just over 100,000 went to Pawe, the largest planned resettlement in Gojjam and largely sustained by Italian financial support. In addition, another 78,000 went to Kaffa, Shewa, and western Begemder.\n\nIn mid-1986 the government halted the resettlement program, largely to fend off the negative reaction from the international community. Richard Pankhurst, in his review of the book \"Politics and the Ethiopian Famine, 1984-1985\", notes that some critics of the regime at the time compared \"the resettlement centres to Hitler's concentration camps\", and having visited them noted that Ethiopia is \"a poor and economically underdeveloped country. Resettlement is therefore being carried out 'on a shoe-string', and the centres, like the country at large, face many difficulties.\" But in November 1987 the program resumed, and in March 1988 Mengistu Haile Mariam spoke of the need to move at least 7 million people; 100,000 - 200,000 were resettled when the program resumed in 1987 and March 1988 when it was suspended. He claimed resettlement would resolve the country's recurring drought problem and would ease population pressure from northern areas where the land had been badly overused. Western donors and governments, whom Addis Ababa expected to help with the program, remained apprehensive of the government's intentions, however. Some believed that the plan to resettle 1.5 million people by 1994 was unrealistic, given the country's strained finances. Others argued that resettlement was a ploy to depopulate areas of unrest in the ongoing conflict, particularly in Eritrea and Tigray. Additional arguments against resettlement included charges of human rights violations, forced separations of families, and lack of medical attention in resettlement centers, which resulted in thousands of deaths from malaria and sleeping sickness.\n\nGebru Tareke, studying the government records of this resettlement program, provides a more accurate picture. \"Between 1984 and 1986,\" he writes, \"594,190 people were hastily, forcibly, and pitilessly uprooted from the cool, dry highlands of Shewa, Tigray, and Wello to the hot, wet lowlands of Gojjam, Illubabor, Kafa and Wellega, and an estimated cost of 767 million birr (US $374 million).\" Of this number, the largest group 367,016 or 62% came from Wollo; 108,241 or 18% from Shewa; 89,716 or 15% from Tigray. \"The seven sites for settlement were randomly selected by Mengistu and Legesse Asfaw. No ecologists, agronomists, horticulturalists, economists, or anthropologists were consulted, and no consent from either the resettlers or the host population was solicited.\" The new settlers encountered harsh conditions: as many as 33,000 or 5.5% died from starvation and tropical diseases, while at least 84,000 or 14% more are believed to have fled these new settlements. As for the claims that the resettlement was primarily motivated to depopulate the rebel areas, or to establish buffer areas against the rebel groups, Gebru is largely dismissive, noting that no people were removed from Eritrea, for example, and that the population transferred from Tigray and Wollo were too small to have made any meaningful difference.\n\nIn 1985 the government initiated a new relocation program known as villagization. The objectives of the program, which grouped scattered farming communities throughout the country into small village clusters, were to promote rational land use; conserve resources; provide access to clean water and to health and education services; and strengthen security. Government guidelines stipulated that villages were to house 200 to 300 households, with 100-square-meter compounds for each family.\n\nIn 1985 Addis Ababa established a national coordinating committee to oversee the villagization plan's implementation. By March 1986, about 4.6 million people in Shewa, Arsi, and Hararghe had been relocated into more than 4,500 villages. Although the government had villagized about 13 million people by 1989, international criticism, deteriorating security conditions, and lack of resources doomed the plan to failure. Nevertheless, Mengistu remained committed to the villagization concept.\n\nOpponents of villagization argued that the scheme was disruptive to agricultural production because the government moved many farmers during the planting and harvesting seasons. There also was concern that villagization could have a negative impact on fragile local resources, particularly on water and grazing land; accelerate the spread of communicable diseases; and increase problems with plant pests and diseases. In early 1990, the government essentially abandoned villagization when it announced new economic policies that called for free-market reforms and a relaxation of centralized planning.\n\nThe pressure on large-scale state farms was under attack by Western donors, who channeled their agricultural aid to the peasant sector. These donors maintained that experiences elsewhere in Africa and in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union had shown that state farms were inefficient and a drain on scarce resources.\n\nVoluntary resettlement programs were renewed in the mid-2000s, as the government encouraged farmers to move from less productive to more productive regions. Some new settlements showed promise; however, at others the problems of self-sufficiency once again reared their heads.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17857610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17857610", "title": "Right of self-defense in Maryland", "text": "Right of self-defense in Maryland\n\nIn the state of Maryland, the right of self-defense is mostly governed by case law, but there is also a statute.\n\nMaryland continues to follow common law principles on the use of force in self-defense, although there is a statute (discussed below) on the subject of immunity from civil lawsuits for the use of force to defend a home or a business.\n\nIn the case of \"Baltimore Transit Co. v. Faulkner\", 179 Md. 598, 20 A.2d 485 (1941), which involved a civil lawsuit for assault and battery, the Court of Appeals of Maryland set forth the general common law principles of the doctrine of self-defense:\n\nThe law of self-defense justifies an act done in the reasonable belief of immediate danger. If an injury was done by a defendant in justifiable self-defense, he can neither be punished criminally nor held responsible for damages in a civil action. . . . One who seeks to justify an assault on the ground that he acted in self-defense must show that he used no more force than the exigency reasonably demanded. The belief of a defendant in an action for assault that the plaintiff intended to do him bodily harm cannot support a plea of self-defense unless it was such a belief as a person of average prudence would entertain under similar circumstances. The jury should accordingly be instructed that to justify assault and battery in self-defense the circumstances must be such as would have induced a rea[s]onable man of average prudence to make such an assault in order to protect himself. The question whether the belief of the defendant that he was about to be injured was a reasonable one under all the circumstances is a question for the consideration of the jury.\n\nThe Court of Appeals said in the case that, even if the plaintiff had struck the defendant's employees first, the plaintiff would still be entitled to prevail in an action for battery if the defendant's employees, in repelling the plaintiff's acts, \"used unreasonable and excessive force, meaning such force as prudent men would not have used under all the circumstances of the case.\" \"Id.\", 179 Md. at 600, 20 A.2d at 487.\n\nMaryland also continues to follow common law principles on the issue of when one may use deadly force in self-defense. In the case of \"State v. Faulkner\", 301 Md. 482, 485, 483 A.2d 759, 761 (1984), the Court of Appeals of Maryland summarized those principles, and stated that a homicide, other than felony murder, is justified on the ground of self-defense if the following criteria are satisfied:\n\n\"See also Roach v. State\", 358 Md. 418, 429-30, 749 A.2d 787, 793 (2000).\n\nIn addition, when one is in one's home, one may use deadly force against an attacker if deadly force is necessary to prevent the attacker from committing a felony that involves the use of force, violence, or surprise (such as murder, robbery, burglary, rape, or arson). \"See Crawford v. State\", 231 Md. 354, 190 A.2d 538 (1963).\n\nMaryland also follows the common law rule that, outside of one's home, a person, before using deadly force in self-defense, has the duty \"'to retreat or avoid danger if such means were within his power and consistent with his safety.'\" \"DeVaughn v. State\", 232 Md. 447, 453, 194 A.2d 109, 112 (1963), \"cert. denied\", 376 U.S. 527 (1964), quoting \"Bruce v. State\", 218 Md. 87, 97, 145 A.2d 428, 433 (1958). \"See also Burch v. State\", 346 Md. 253, 283, 696 A.2d 443, 458 (1997).\n\nBut a person does not have to retreat if it would not be safe for the person to do so. \"[I]f the peril of the defendant was imminent, he did not have to retreat but had a right to stand his ground and to defend and protect himself.\" \"Bruce v. State\", \"supra\", 218 Md. at 97, 145 A.2d at 433.\n\nThe duty to retreat also does not apply if one is attacked in one's own home. \"[A] man faced with the danger of an attack upon his dwelling need not retreat from his home to escape the danger, but instead may stand his ground and, if necessary to repel the attack, may kill the attacker.\" \"Crawford v. State\", 231 Md. 354, 361, 190 A.2d 538, 541 (1963). The Court of Appeals said in \"Crawford\", a case in which the defendant fatally shot a younger man who was attempting to break into his home to beat and rob him:\n\n\nThis principle is known as the \"Castle Doctrine\", \"the name being derived from the foundational principle that 'a man's home is his castle' and his ultimate retreat.\" \"Barton v. State\", 46 Md. App. 616, 618, 420 A.2d 1009, 1010-1011 (1980). A man \"is not bound to flee and become a fugitive from his own home, for, if that were required, there would, theoretically, be no refuge for him anywhere in the world.\" .\nA person does not have to be the owner of the home or the head of the household in order to be able to invoke the \"Castle Doctrine.\" Instead, \"any member of the household, whether or not he or she has a proprietary or leasehold interest in the property, is within its ambit . . . .\" .\n\nHowever, even in one's own home, the degree of force used in self-defense must not be \"excessive.\" \"Crawford v. State\", \"supra\", 231 Md. at 362, 190 A.2d at 542. Quoting a treatise on criminal law, the Court of Appeals said in \"Crawford\":\n\nAlthough self-defense is commonly called a \"defense,\" a defendant who invokes self-defense in a criminal case in Maryland does not have the burden of proving that he or she acted in self-defense.\n\nInstead, the defendant in a criminal case only has a burden of \"production\" on the issue of self-defense. This means that a defendant who wishes to invoke the doctrine only needs to \"generate the issue\" by introducing some evidence that he or she acted in self-defense. If the defendant satisfies that burden of production and thus generates the issue, then it is the \"prosecution\" that has the burden of proving that the defendant did \"not\" act in self-defense. In other words, once the defendant satisfies his or her burden of production on the issue of self-defense, then the prosecution has the burden of \"persuasion\" on the issue of self-defense.\n\nIf the defendant does not generate the issue of self-defense, then the prosecution does not have to prove that the defendant had not acted in self-defense.\n\nThe Court of Appeals of Maryland adopted these principles in the case of \"State v. Evans\", 278 Md. 197, 207-08, 362 A.2d 629, 636 (1976). The Court said allocating the burdens of production and persuasion in this manner was required by the Supreme Court's decision in \"Mullaney v. Wilbur\", 421 U.S. 684 (1975).\n\nIn \"civil\" cases, by contrast, self-defense remains a defense, meaning that the burden of proving its applicability is on the defendant. \"See Baltimore Transit Co. v. Faulkner, supra,\" 179 Md. at 600-01, 20 A.2d at 487.\n\nIf the duty-to-retreat criteria is met, then the following self-defense criteria are examined, as contained within the Maryland Criminal Pattern Jury Instruction. Optional or alternate inclusions into the jury instruction are enclosed with < >. Phrases surrounded with () are substituted with specific instances of the case.\n\nSelf-defense is a defense, and the defendant must be found not guilty if all of the following three factors are present:\n\n\"Deadly-force is that amount of force reasonably calculated to cause death or serious bodily harm. If the defendant is found to have used deadly-force, it must be decided whether the use of deadly-force was reasonable. Deadly-force is reasonable if the defendant actually had a reasonable belief that the aggressor's force was or would be deadly and that the defendant needed a deadly-force response.\"\n\n\"In addition, before using deadly-force, the defendant is required to make all reasonable effort to retreat. The defendant does not have to retreat if the defendant was in <their> home, retreat was unsafe, the avenue of retreat was unknown to the defendant, the defendant was being robbed, the defendant was lawfully arresting the victim. If the defendant was found to have not used deadly-force, then the defendant had no duty to retreat.\"\n\nDefense of others is a defense, and the defendant must be found not guilty if all of the following four factors are present:\n\nDefense of one's home is a defense, and the defendant must be found not guilty if all of the following three factors are present:\n\nDefense of property is a defense, and the defendant must be found not guilty if all of the following three factors are present:\n\n\"A person may not use deadly force to defend <his> <her> property. Deadly force is that amount of force reasonably calculated to cause death or serious bodily harm.\"\n\nMaryland Civil Pattern Jury Instruction 15:4(a) & (b) states:\n\nWhile the use of force in self-defense may be justifiable, the person defending himself or herself still runs the risk of being sued by the attacker for monetary damages. In 2010, the Maryland General Assembly passed, and Governor Martin O'Malley signed, a bill to address this issue and to provide for an immunity to such civil lawsuits in certain cases in which a person used force, including deadly force, to defend his or her home or business. The statute — § 5-808 of the Courts and Judicial Proceedings Article of the Maryland Code — provides as follows:\n\nThe statute essentially codifies the common law rule of self-defense. It is arguable that the statute makes the \"Castle Doctrine\" applicable to actions committed to defend a person's business. But the statute is not entirely clear on that point, because of its requirement that the force be \"reasonable under the circumstances\" and the absence of specific language saying that the defendant may stand his or her ground in the business. Importantly, the statute also provides that, if a defendant prevails in a defense under the statute, then the court \"may\" order the plaintiff to pay the defendant's costs and reasonable attorney's fees. The statute further provides that the immunity which it creates does not apply if the defendant had been convicted of certain criminal charges in connection with the incident.\n\nBy its terms, the statute does not apply to criminal prosecutions.\n\nThe General Assembly enacted the statute nine years after an incident that occurred on the night of March 19, 2001, in which one or both of the co-owners of a cement company in Glyndon, Maryland opened fire on three intruders on the company's premises, killing one of them and wounding the other two. The company's premises had also been burglarized the two previous nights, and the two co-owners (who were brothers) were staying overnight at the business to guard it. In February 2004, the estate and young son of the deceased intruder sued the two brothers and their company for damages. According to online records of the Maryland court system, the plaintiffs dropped the lawsuit on January 28, 2005. It is not stated in the online records whether or not the case was settled.\n\nWithin days of the shooting in 2001, bills were introduced in each of the two chambers of the General Assembly to shield business owners from civil lawsuits for deadly force against a person \"who unlawfully and forcefully enters\" the business. The state Senate passed its bill, but the House of Delegates took no action on the measure or on the bill that had been introduced in the House. In 2004, 2005, 2008, and 2009, the House of Delegates passed bills on the subject, but none of the bills made it out of committee in the state Senate. The statute that the General Assembly enacted in 2010 had wording that was different from the language of the prior bills.\n\n"}
{"id": "46511038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46511038", "title": "Sabeen Mahmud", "text": "Sabeen Mahmud\n\nSabeen Mahmud (20 June 1974 – 24 April 2015) () was a progressive Pakistani human rights activist and social worker who founded the Karachi-based cafe \"The Second Floor\". She also presided over the Karachi branch of TiE.\n\nBorn and raised in Karachi, she was educated at Karachi Grammar and later at the Kinnaird College. She later founded an interactive media and technology consulting firm and worked to establish the Citizens Archive of Pakistan. She set up \"The Second Floor (T2F)\" in 2007 aimed at providing a community space for open dialogue. Under Sabeen's leadership, T2F arranged a series of liberal social activities. She also co-lead protests against the \"Red Mosque\" in Islamabad, and also took part in \"Pakistan for All\", a campaign to end sectarianism and religious intolerance in Pakistan.\n\nOn 24 April 2015, she hosted a debate on Balochistan conflict which included activist's like Mama Qadeer. After the event, she was shot dead by a gunman on her way home after hosting a seminar at T2F. As of 20 May 2015, Pakistani authorities have arrested the culprit behind Mahmud's murder. Sabeen is referred to as part of 'Pakistan’s liberal, urban, globalised civil society'.\n\nMahmud wanted to challenge injustice and discrimination, and to encourage critical thinking; she told \"Dawn\" that her biggest dream is to \"change the world for the better through the Internet.\" She founded PeaceNiche, an organisation that provides a \"social platform\" for public good.\n\nMahmud founded a small tech company called \"bits\" with Zaheer Kidvai, with whom she worked in 2 other companies from the age of 14.5, and considered him her mentor. In 2006, she founded The Second Floor (T2F), a cafe that hosted public forum discussions, film screenings, poetry writing, stand-up comedy and live theatre. In 2013, Sabeen co-hosted Pakistan's first civic hackathon, held at T2F in Karachi, which was designed to bring together people from different disciplines to brainstorm ways to solve civic problems. Mahmud hosted public figures, including Ayesha Siddiqa who authored a controversial book on military financing, leading to the Inter-Services Intelligence contacting The Second Floor.\n\nIn 2013, she told \"Wired\" magazine that she didn't want an armed security guard in The Second Floor \"I said, that’s the price you pay for having a public space. I’m not having people checked and a military guy there because of a pervasive fear.\" She went on to state \"Read Chomsky. Things are dangerous and bad things happen. But you can’t let fear control you, you’ll never get anything done.\" Her work received coverage in international media.\n\nDuring the late hours of 24 April 2015, Mahmud, while traveling in her Suzuki Swift (registration Number AWH 541), was fatally shot by gunmen near the DHA library on her way home after hosting a seminar. As her car stopped at a red light less than 500 metres to the north of T2F, Saad Aziz who was riding a motorcycle driven by Aliur Rehman aka Tony rode up alongside it and shot Mahmud, who was in the driving seat, four or five times with a 9mm gun.\n\nAccording to a police official, the murder was a direct target killing and was booked by the police under the Terrorism Act. Her mother was also critically wounded in the attack and taken to the Aga Khan Hospital for treatment. The seminar, titled 'Unsilencing Balochistan (Take 2)', was held at the T2F cafe and focused on Balochistan. Among the guest speakers was the Baloch activist Mama Qadeer.\n\nAccording to Mama Qadeer, Sabeen and her mother left shortly after the event ended. The event had been rescheduled from 21 April to 24 April, and at a different venue, as organisers had received threats earlier. The Chief Minister of Sindh Qaim Ali Shah condemned the killing and called an inquiry into the incident. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif extended his condolences to the family and sought a report from investigating authorities. The activist's death was also met with shock by prominent media and civil society members on social media. Nasreen Jalil, Mosharraf Zaidi, Altaf Hussain, Fasi Zaka, Raza Rumi, Hamid Mir, Arif Alvi, Fatima Bhutto, Taimur Rahman, Kamila Shamsie, Malala Yousafzai and Sharmila Farooqi, among others, poured condemnations over the incident. General Asim Bajwa, director general of the Inter-Services Public Relations, strongly condemned the killing and assured that intelligence agencies would provide assistance in capturing the perpetrators. The Taliban denied responsibility for the attack. A panel in memory of Mahmud was held at the 2015 Islamabad Literature Festival. On 23 May 2015 an international Hackathon was organized in loving memory of Sabeen Mahmud.\nOn 20 May, Chief Minister of Sindh Qaim Ali Shah stated that the mastermind behind Sabeen's murder had been arrested. The culprit also confessed his involvement in the bus shooting against Ismailis in Karachi. The accused was identified as Saad Aziz.\n\nPakistani journalist Kiran Nazish has claimed in a recent article that the murder was done under instructions from the ISI. She has claimed to be threatened by the intelligence service in 2015 to receive the same fate as her friend Sabeen\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8268647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8268647", "title": "Supranational aspects of international organizations", "text": "Supranational aspects of international organizations\n\nMany international organizations also have supranational aspects, meaning that decisions can be made by the organization as a whole that are binding on member states that disagree.\n\n\"Political Unification Revisited: On Building Supranational Communities\" by Amitai Etzioni offers the definition of supranationality that is used in this entry. Etzioni writes that supranationality can be thought of as \"a composite of several elements.\" These elements can be present alone or all together. The three elements of supranationality are defined as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "45337283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45337283", "title": "The Genealogist", "text": "The Genealogist\n\nThe Genealogist is a bi-annual genealogical magazine founded in 1980 by the \"American Society of Genealogists (ASG)\" and by Dr. Neil D. Thompson, FASG. Articles are published in full detail, including references. The magazine allows shorter articles, but focuses on articles that are often too large or complex for other genealogical publishing forums. Each issue has a minimum of 128 pages.\n\nThe primary goals of the magazine is the same as the ASG This is ...\n\n\nIt is currently being edited by Charles M. Hansen, Colonel, US Army retired, FASG and Gale Ion Harris, Ph.D., FASG.\n\nFrom 1997 (vol. 11) to 2009 (vol. 23) The magazine was published by Picton Press. Since Vol. 24, No. 1 (Spring 2010), it has been published and distributed directly by The American Society of Genealogists.\n\n"}
{"id": "17054629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17054629", "title": "The Metropolitan Club", "text": "The Metropolitan Club\n\nThe Metropolitan Club is a private social club in Manhattan, New York City. It was founded in 1891 as men only, but now allows women into membership.\n\nThe Metropolitan Club was formed in 1891 by J. P. Morgan, who served as its first president. \n\nIt was actually the second organization with that name in its neighborhood. \"The New York Times\" reported Tuesday, March 10, 1891, about the name selected the prior Saturday:\n\nThere is already a Metropolitan Club, which for some years has occupied quarters in the neighborhood in which the millionaires think of building.\n\nActually, the first organization to claim the name \"Metropolitan Club\" seemed to be described by \"The Times\" for over a decade without the prefix \"The\".\nOther original members of the club included William Kissam Vanderbilt and James A. Roosevelt. \"Each member, which included Vanderbilts and Whitneys, contributed $5,000 to buy the plot of land.\"\n\nThe architects of the original building (erected in 1893) were McKim, Mead & White.\n\nThe east wing, erected in 1912, was designed by Ogden Codman Jr.\n\nIts 1894 clubhouse, designed by Stanford White, stands at 1-11 East 60th Street, on the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue. The land on which the Clubhouse stands (100 feet fronting on Fifth Avenue and 200 feet on 60th Street) was acquired from the Duchess of Marlborough who signed the purchase agreement in the United States Consulate in London. Cornelius Vanderbilt II signed the purchase agreement on behalf of the club.\n\nThe address of the Club's building is \"One East 60th Street\"; the address for parking is 11 East 61st Street (\"between Madison and Fifth Avenues\" - \"615 Garage Corporation\").\n\nWhether it is true or not that GOLF originated as Gentlemen-Only-Ladies-Forbidden, The Metropolitan Club was originally men-only. Today this is not the case, as noted in the \"DRESS CODE\" of the club's \nHouse Rules.\n\nExcept in private spaces, \"Cellular Phones\" and Laptops are prohibited. There is no provision in the \"No animals or pets are permitted\" rule for seeing-eye dogs.\n\nThe club has had an ongoing involvement in the social life of the upper class:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14519034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14519034", "title": "Turks in Azerbaijan", "text": "Turks in Azerbaijan\n\nTurks in Azerbaijan are Turkish people who live in Azerbaijan Republic. The community is largely made of Ottoman Turkish descendants, Meskhetian Turks and recent immigrants from Turkey.\n\nOttoman Turks began to settle in Azerbaijan when the region came under the rule of the Ottoman Empire between 1578 and 1603 and then again in the second Ottoman conquest of 1724 until the end of World War I in 1918. The First All-Union Census of the Soviet Union in 1926 recorded 8,570 Ottoman Turks living in the Soviet Union. The Ottoman Turks are no longer listed separately in the census; it is presumed that those who were living in Azerbaijan have either been assimilated into Azeri society or have left the country. Approximately 19,000 descendants of the Ottoman Turks (not including the Meskhetian Turks) are estimated to be living in Azerbaijan.\n\nThe Meskhetian Turks first arrived in Azerbaijan at the end of the nineteenth century, and more followed in 1918-1920. However, migration to Azerbaijan increased dramatically after World War II when the Soviet Union was preparing to launch a pressure campaign against Turkey. Vyacheslav Molotov, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, demanded to the surrender of three Anatolian provinces (Kars, Ardahan and Artvin); thus, war against Turkey seemed possible, and Joseph Stalin wanted to clear the strategic Turkish population situated in Meskheti, located near the Turkish-Georgian border which were likely to be hostile to Soviet intentions. Thus, in 1944, the Meskhetian Turks were forcefully deported from the Meskheti region in Georgia and accused of smuggling, banditry and espionage in collaboration with their kin across the Turkish border. Nationalistic policies at the time encouraged the slogan: \"Georgia for Georgians\" and that the Meskhetian Turks should be sent to Turkey \"where they belong\". Joseph Stalin deported the Meskhetian Turks to Central Asia (especially to Uzbekistan), thousands dying en route in cattle-trucks, and were not permitted by the Georgian government of Zviad Gamsakhurdia to return to their homeland. \n\nBetween the late 1950s and 1970s, about 25,000 to 30,000 Meskhetian Turks settled in Azerbaijan; furthermore, approximately 50,000 Meskhetian Turkish refugees came to Azerbaijan due to continued discrimination when the Meskhetian Turks living in Uzbekistan became the victims of riots by the ethnic Uzbeks in the Ferghana valley which led to over a hundred deaths. Most of the first wave of Meskhetian Turkish refugees from the Ferghana Valley settled in the Saatli and Sabirabad region and the regions of Khachmaz, Beylagan and Baku. Some 5,000 Meskhetian Turks have also arrived to Azerbaijan from Russia during the 1990s, and a few hundred arrived from Nagorno-Karabakh to Azerbaijan proper during the 1991-1994 war.\n\nAzerbaijan has witnessed increasing numbers of immigrants from Turkey. By 2009, 17,577 Turkish citizens were living in Azerbaijan.\n\nThe Meskhetian Turks are settled mostly in rural areas and in the cities of Baku, Beylagan, Khachmaz, Saatli, and Sabirabad. Those living in urban areas tend to be better off than those in agricultural areas.\n\nAccording to the 2009 Azerbaijani population census there were 38,000 Turks living in Azerbaijan. However, official data regarding the Turkish community in Azerbaijan is unlikely to provide a true indication of the population as much of the community is officially registered as \"Azerbaijani\". Furthermore, no distinction is made in the census between Meskhetian Turks and Turks from Turkey who have become Azerbaijani citizens, both groups are classified in the official census as \"Turks\" or \"Azerbaijani\". \n\nApproximately 19,000 descendants of Ottoman Turkish migrants are still living in Azerbaijan and practice Sunni Islam. However, since the twentieth century a new wave of Turkish migrants arrived from Georgia (Meskhetia) and Turkey. In the late 1950s and 1970s approximately 25,000 to 30,000 Meskhetian Turks settled in Azerbaijan and a further 50,000 Meskhetian Turkish refugees arrived from Uzbekistan in 1989. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 100,000 Meskhetian Turks were living in Azerbaijan in 1999 Academic estimates have suggested that the Meskhetian Turkish community of Azerbaijan numbers 90,000 to 110,000. In addition, as of 2009, there were 17,577 Turkish citizens living in Azerbaijan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36360057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36360057", "title": "Utmanzai (Sarbani tribe)", "text": "Utmanzai (Sarbani tribe)\n\nUtmanzai (Pashto: اتمان زی), also spelled Uthmanzai or Atmaanzai, is a Pashtun tribe in Pakistan and Afghanistan.\n\nUtmanzai are generally considered to be a clan of Yusufzai, but they are, in fact, cousin tribes. Ottman, the ancestor of Utmanzais was the son of Umar, who was the brother of Yusuf, the ancestor of Yusufzais. They live in Charsadda, Topi, Kotha, Maini, Batakara in Swabi District, Abbottabad, Sari Pandori, Khalabat Township, Haripur District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa of Pakistan. In Punjab they are settled in Kasur District and on displacement after construction of Tarbela Dam, have settled in Attock, Hazara, Jhang, Toba Tek Singh and Khanewal Districts of Punjab .\n\nThe Utmanzai hold the extreme east of the right bank of the River Indus, also settling in a small area in the south of the Gadoon valley, and early in the 15th century were called across the Indus by the Gujjars of Hazara as allies against the Tareen Afghans, and appropriated the Gandgarh tract from Tarbela to the southern border of Hazara. Prior to the 1960s, a huge population of Utmanzai tribe were living at the both sides of Indus river. People living there were migrated to different places in Pakistan due to the establishment of new Dam called Tarbela Dam near Tarbela Village. Most of them have settled in Haripur Khalabat Township. Some of them have settled in Punjab district Attock (Utmanabad, Pathankot, Islamkot, Sultanpur, Dareak). In Afghanistan Utmanzai lives near to the Pak-Afghan border(Torkham) in the village name Gardee Ghose.\n\nIn the times of Ahmad Shah Durani,Baba Said Khan, the head of the Said Khani family of the Utmanzai Pathans, held towns of Kota and Topi in Yusafzai area. He also founded Kalabat town to protect his possessions in Hazara. He was perpetually\nfighting with the Other Pashtun tribes such as the Tarins, but managed to hold his own and gradually to extend his estates. His grand grandson,\nSadula Khan, was one of the boldest opponents of the Sikhs,defeating Sardar Hari Singh at Nara in the Gandgarh hills,Hazara\nin the year 1824. A white pillar was put up by the British Major Abbott to mark the spot where Sadula Khan and his\nretainers had fought and conquered.\n"}
{"id": "40847794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40847794", "title": "Women in Guyana", "text": "Women in Guyana\n\nWomen in Guyana are South American women who lives in or are from Guyana. In general, Guyanese women play significant roles in modern-day Guyanese society as house-workers, farmers, market vendors, teachers, nurses, civil servants, and clerks. A few women of Guyana have become senior position holders in the Government of Guyana; there had even been one Guyanese who took the role as the President of Guyana. Education-wise, women in Guyana have outperformed male Guyanese in regional examinations. There are currently more women in Guyana who attend education in universities. \n\nMany Guyanese women living in urban areas of Guyana have taken roles as breadwinners for their families, particularly in working-class families. \n\nIn religion, obeah women participate as religious leaders in folk religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68442", "title": "Yeoman", "text": "Yeoman\n\nA yeoman was a member of a social class in late medieval to early modern England. In early recorded uses, a yeoman was an attendant in a noble household; hence titles such as \"Yeoman of the Chamber\", \"Yeoman of the Crown\", \"Yeoman Usher\", \"King's Yeoman\", Yeomen Warders, Yeomen of the Guard. The later sense of yeoman as \"a commoner who cultivates his own land\" is recorded from the 15th century; in military context, yeoman was the rank of the third order of \"fighting men\", below knights and squires, but above knaves.\nA specialized meaning in naval terminology, \"petty officer in charge of supplies\", arose in the 1660s.\n\nThe term is first recorded c. 1300. Its etymology is unclear. It may be a contraction of Old English \"iunge man\", meaning \"young man\" (compare knave, meaning \"boy\"), but there are alternative suggestions, such as derivations from an unattested \"*ġeaman\" (a hypothetical cognate of Old Frisian \"gaman\", from \"gea-\" \"province\") meaning \"villager; rustic\".\nThe Canon's Yeoman's Prologue and Tale appears in Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", written between 1387 and 1400.\n\nDuring the late 14th to 18th centuries, yeomen were farmers who owned land (freehold, leasehold or copyhold). Their wealth and the size of their landholding varied. Sir Anthony Richard Wagner, Garter Principal King of Arms, wrote that \"a Yeoman would not normally have less than 100 acres\" (40 hectares) \"and in social status is one step down from the Landed gentry, but above, say, a husbandman\". Often it was hard to distinguish minor landed gentry from the wealthier yeomen, and wealthier husbandmen from the poorer yeomen.\n\nThe \"Concise Oxford Dictionary\" (edited by H.W. & F.G. Fowler, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1972 reprint, p. 1516) states that a yeoman was \"a person qualified by possessing free land of 40/- (shillings) annual [feudal] value, and who can serve on juries and vote for a Knight of the Shire. He is sometimes described as a small landowner, a farmer of the middle classes\".\n\nThe term had a military sense as in the Yeomanry Cavalry of the late 18th century and Imperial Yeomanry of the late 1890s. The 'yeoman archer' was unique to England and Wales (in particular, the south Wales areas of Monmouthshire with the famed archers of Gwent; and Glamorgan, Crickhowell, and Abergavenny; and South West England with the Royal Forest of Dean, Kingswood Royal Forest near Bristol, and the New Forest). Though Kentish Weald and Cheshire archers were noted for their skills, it appears that the bulk of the 'yeomanry' was from the English and Welsh Marches (border regions).\n\nThe original Yeomen of the Guard (originally archers) chartered in 1485 were most likely of Brittonic descent, including Welshmen and Bretons. They were established by King Henry VII, himself of Welsh descent, who was exiled in Brittany during the Wars of the Roses. He recruited his forces mostly from Wales and the West Midlands of England on his journey to victory at Bosworth Field.\n\nYeomen were often constables of their parish, and sometimes chief constables of the district, shire or hundred. Many yeomen held the positions of bailiffs for the High Sheriff or for the shire or hundred. Other civic duties would include churchwarden, bridge warden, and other warden duties. It was also common for a yeoman to be an overseer for his parish. Yeomen, whether working for a lord, king, shire, knight, district or parish served in localised or municipal police forces raised by or led by the landed gentry.\n\nSome of these roles, in particular those of constable and bailiff were carried down through families. Yeomen often filled ranging, roaming, surveying, and policing roles. In Chaucer's Friar's Tale, a yeoman who is a bailiff of the forest who tricks the Summoner turns out to be the devil ready to grant wishes already made.\n\nThe earlier class of franklins (freemen or French or Norman freeholders) were similar to yeomen: wealthy peasant landowners, freeholders or village officials. They were typically village leaders (aldermen), constables or mayors. Franklin militias were similar to later yeomanries. Yeomen took over those roles in the 14th century as many of them became leaders, constables, sheriffs, justices of the peace, mayors and significant leaders of their country districts. It was too much, for even ‘valets’ known as ‘yeoman archers’ were forbidden to be returned to parliament, indicating they even held power at a level never before held by the upper class of commoners. In districts remoter from landed gentry and burgesses, yeomen held more official power: this is attested in statutes of the reign of Henry VIII indicating yeomen along with knights and squires as leaders for certain purposes.\n\nThe yeoman also comprised a military class or status (usually known as in the third order of the fighting class, between squire and page). By contrast, in contemporary feudal continental Europe, the divide between commoners and gentry was far wider: though a middle class existed, it was less esteemed than the yeoman of England of that time.\n\nIn the United States, yeomen were identified in the 18th and 19th centuries as non-slaveholding, small landowning, family farmers. In Southern areas where land was poor, like East Tennessee, the landowning yeomen were typically subsistence farmers, but some managed to grow some crops for market. Whether they engaged in subsistence or commercial agriculture, they controlled far more modest landholdings than those of the planters, typically in the range of 50–200 acres. In the North, practically all the farms were operated by yeoman farmers as family farms.\n\nThomas Jefferson was a leading advocate of the yeomen, arguing that the independent farmers formed the basis of republican values. Indeed, Jeffersonian Democracy as a political force was largely built around the yeomen. After the Civil War, organizations of farmers, especially the Grange, formed to organize and enhance the status of the yeoman farmers.\n\nIn the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Coast Guard, the enlisted rating of yeoman describes an enlisted service member who performs administrative and clerical work ashore and embarked aboard vessels at sea. They deal with protocol, naval instructions, enlisted evaluations, commissioned officer fitness reports, naval messages, visitors, telephone calls and mail (both conventional and electronic). They organize files and operate office equipment and order and distribute office supplies. They write and type business and social letters, notices, directives, forms and reports.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7225075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7225075", "title": "Çük", "text": "Çük\n\nÇük (Çuq; or ; Cyrillic: \"Чук\", \"Чүк\", \"Чӳк\", \"Чӱк\") was a holiday of Keräşen Tatars, Chuvashes, Udmurts, preserved before the beginning of 20th century. It was celebrated as summer, before the Whitsunday or at the \"Poqraw\" eve (The Intercession). Commoners arranged a collective meal, and called for rain. Recent years Çük is celebrated in several districts of Tatarstan and is held in the manner of Sabantuy, in Chuvash чӳке(н) - rinse.\n\n\n"}
