{"id": "4468025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4468025", "title": "Academy of Performing Arts in Prague", "text": "Academy of Performing Arts in Prague\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts in Prague (, AMU) is a university in the centre of Prague, Czech Republic, specialising in the study of music, dance, drama, film, television and multi-media. It is the largest art school in the Czech Republic, with more than 350 educators and researchers, and 1500 students. \n\nThe academy consists of three faculties: a Film and TV School (FAMU); Music and Dance Faculty (HAMU); and Theatre Faculty (DAMU), offering Bachelor, Masters, and Doctoral level courses, as well as conducting artistic research, and in some departments also research in art history and theory. AMU has two cross-faculty pedagogical facilities: a Languages Centre and a Sports, Rehabilitation and Movement Centre. The university also has two facilities outside Prague designed for residential multi-day creative projects.\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts was founded by a Presidential Decree of 27 October 1945, and opened to students the next year, in the winter semester of 1946. The establishment of the school was initiated by a group of artists and writers, including , , and , during World War II. Professors of the older Prague Conservatory also supported the idea of transforming the former maestro school into a university. Writers, artists and other film-makers with practical experience in the film industry, including Jaroslav Bouček, Karel Plicka, Otakar Vávra, Ivan Olbracht, Vítězslav Nezval, and , contributed to the school’s future curriculum, designing it to reflect new trends in post-war film development. Later the Film Studio and the DISK theatre, belonging to the Theatre Faculty, were added. The Opera Studio of the Music Faculty also uses the DISK theatre. When the medium of television emerged, the Film and TV School began offering study programmes for TV specialists. It also has a department with a still photography curriculum.\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts consists of a Film and TV School (FAMU), Music and Dance Faculty, Theatre Faculty, and a rector’s office. Besides the DISK theatre and Film Studio, the Academy's teaching facilities include sound and photography studios, laboratories, workshops, dancing and training halls. The Lichtenštejn Palace, renovated in 1991, contains a grand concert hall dedicated to the Czech composer Bohuslav Martinů and the Inspirace theatre.\n\nThe Academy owns out-of-town practice and teaching centres in Poněšice and Beroun. The Study and Training Centre in Poněšice, South Bohemia, is situated on the River Vltava River, and is used for special training programmes, sports and language courses for students and other users. The Study, Training and Accommodation Centre in Beroun, 30 kilometres west of Prague, is used for training and study activities and workshops for DAMU, HAMU, FAMU and Studio FAMU. \n\nThe Theatre Faculty of the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague (DAMU) was established in 1945 as part of the newly created arts university. Teachers at the faculty have included prominent personalities of modern Czech theatre including Otomar Krejča, , Ivan Vyskočil. DAMU is a member of the European League of Institutes of the Arts (ELIA) and the European Network of Cultural Administration Training Centres (ENCATC).\n\nThe Film and TV School of the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague (FAMU) was established in 1946, as the world’s fifth university-level arts school with a programme in film education. At the end of the 1960s, a number of the school's graduates emerged as part of the Czechoslovak New Wave movement, including Věra Chytilová, Miloš Forman, and Jiří Menzel. Later graduates of the school to receive international acclaim included Agnieszka Holland, Emir Kusturica, and Jan Svěrák. FAMU is a founding member of the International Association of Film and Television Schools (CILECT), and a member of ELIA and the European Grouping of Film and Television Schools (GEECT).\n\nThe Music and Dance Faculty of the Academy of Performing Arts (; HAMU) was established in 1945 as one of the academy’s three components, as a successor to the master school of the Prague Conservatory. The school provides education in the fields of music and dance in Czech and English at Bachelor, Masters and doctoral levels. The faculty has 12 departments (the Departments of String, Keyboard, Wind and Percussion Instruments, Jazz Interpretation, Voice and Opera Directing, Musical Sound, Theory and History of Music, Conducting, Composition and Pantomime). The faculty also includes three research facilities: the Institute of Music Theory, the Institute for Dance Theory, and the Musical Acoustics Research Centre (MARC). HAMU is the organiser of the orchestral cycle \"The Best\" and the Skrznaskrz festival, which features collaborations between all three AMU faculties as well as other fine arts schools.\n\nThe academy runs bachelor, master, and doctoral study programmes covering Art of Music, Art of Dance, Art of Drama, Art of Film, TV and Photography, and New Media. Bachelor study programmes usually last three years and students receive Bachelor of Arts degrees (BcA). Master study programmes usually take two further years. After passing the state examination, students receive Master of Arts degrees (MgA). Doctoral study programmes are established at all the faculties. On passing a doctoral examination and presenting a doctoral theses, students are awarded doctorates (Ph.D). The academy offers other special courses outside the regular university study programme, some of which can be used as credit.\n\nStudents at the academy are only accepted after completing secondary school education and successfully passing entrance exams. Each faculty has its own\nrequirements for the entrance exams.\n\nThe official language of instruction of the course units is Czech, but each faculty offers some degree programs in English. A limited number of short-term courses are taught in English or in German, and for others a preparatory course in Czech is necessary.\n\nAMU has a library with more than 180,000 volumes of academic literature, sound recordings and audio-visual works, and students are also entitled to use other libraries free of charge, such as the University library and the library of the Czech Academy of Sciences. Students of the academy have free or discounted entry to some cultural events, such as theatre performances, concerts, exhibitions, lectures and films. The academy has co-operative links with other schools in the Czech Republic and internationally, which include artistic competitions, festivals, and reciprocal exchange performances.\n\nAMU's facilities include theatres, film and television studios, and concert halls. A university publishing service, AMU Press (NAMU), publishes literature about AMU artistic activities. The final projects of students studying disciplines with a significant graphic component are exhibited in the AMU Gallery (GAMU), which also hosts one-off thematic exhibitions. AMU has two halls of residence: one on Hradební Street in the centre of Prague, reconstructed in the academic year 2006/07, and another on the southern outskirts of Prague. The academy's Language Centre provides classes in English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Russian and Czech for students and employees. The AMU Sports, Rehabilitation and Movement Centre organises various sports activities for students.\n\nSeveral of the directors considered part of the Czechoslovak New Wave attended FAMU, including Miloš Forman (b. 1932), Jiří Menzel (b. 1938), Jan Němec, Juraj Jakubisko, Věra Chytilová, Ivan Passer, and Vojtěch Jasný.\n\nAlso among FAMU's alumni are a group of Yugoslav film directors known as the \"Praška filmska škola\" (Prague Film School) who rose to prominence in the 1970s after graduating from FAMU. Five prominent Yugoslav directors born from 1944 to 1947 attended classes at FAMU: Lordan Zafranović (b. 1944), Srđan Karanović (b. 1945), Goran Marković (b. 1946), Goran Paskaljević (b. 1947), and Rajko Grlić (b. 1947). Emir Kusturica (b. 1954) also attended FAMU, graduating in 1978, and is also sometimes considered a member of the \"Praška škola\". Cinematographers Živko Zalar (who has worked with Grlić, Karanović and Marković), Predrag Pega Popović (who has worked with Zafranović and Marković), Vilko Filač (who has worked with Kusturica), Valentin Perko, and Pavel Grzinčič, also studied at FAMU.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2890040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890040", "title": "Accentus", "text": "Accentus\n\nAccentus (or Accentus Ecclesiasticus; Ecclesiastical accent) is a style of church music that emphasizes spoken word. It is often contrasted with \"concentus\", an alternative style that emphasizes harmony. The terms \"accentus\" and \"concentus\" were probably introduced by Andreas Ornithoparchus in his \"Musicae Activae Micrologus\", Leipzig, 1517. \"\"Concentus\" might be chief ruler over all things that are sung...and \"Accentus\" over all things that are read,\" according to Ornithoparchus. The style is also known as liturgical recitative, though it differs in some important ways from other types of recitative.\n\nIn the medieval church, all that portion of the liturgical song which was performed by the entire choir, or by sections of it, was called \"concentus\"; thus hymns, psalms, mass ordinary, and alleluias were, generally speaking, included under this term, as well as anything with more complex or distinctive melodic contours. On the other hand, such parts of the liturgy which the priest, the deacon, the subdeacon, or the acolyte sang alone were called \"accentus\"; such were the collects, the epistle and gospel, the preface, or anything which was recited chiefly on one tone, rather than sung, by the priest or one of his assistants. The accentus should never be accompanied by harmonies, whether of voices or of instruments, although the concentus may receive such accompaniment. The intoning words \"Gloria in excelsis Deo\" and \"Credo in Unum Deum\", being assigned to the celebrant alone, should not be repeated by the choir or accompanied by the organ or other musical instrument.\n\nThere were originally seven types of \"Accentus Ecclesiasticus\", depending on how the voice should be inflected at the punctuation marks ending phrases or sentences. In \"accentus immutabilis\", the voice remains at the same tone; in \"accentus medus\" it falls by a third at a colon; in \"accentus gravis\" it falls by a fifth at a period; in \"accentus actus\" it falls by a third and returns to the original tone at a comma; in \"accentus moderatus\" it rises by a second and returns to the original tone at a comma; in \"accentus interrogata\" it falls by a second and returns to the original tone at a question mark; and in \"accentus finalis\", it rises by a second and then falls stepwise to a fourth below the original tone at the end.\n"}
{"id": "1261794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261794", "title": "At the Movies (Australian TV program)", "text": "At the Movies (Australian TV program)\n\nAt the Movies was an Australian television program on ABC hosted by film critics Margaret Pomeranz and David Stratton, where they discussed the films opening in theatres that week.\n\nThe program, which began in mid-2004, is a continuation of the pair's earlier program \"The Movie Show\", which aired on SBS One from 1986 to 2004. The pair left SBS after expressing dissatisfaction with high-level decisions.\n\nThe weekly half-hour program consists of film reviews and discussions as well as interviews with cast and crew members. The hosts also occasionally broadcast from film events such as the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nThe pair's 25 years of presenting film reviews on television was celebrated in a special show on 26 October 2011, filmed before an audience and special guests, hosted by Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush.\n\nOn 16 September 2014, Stratton and Pomeranz announced they would be retiring at the end of the 2014 series. The final episode aired on 9 December 2014 and Stratton and Pomeranz said farewell to over 700,000 viewers, making it one of the most watched season finales on the ABC in the history of the station.\n\nOnly seven films have achieved a \"5 star\" rating by both Pomeranz and Stratton.\n\nIn the previous SBS format, several films achieved 5 stars from both Margaret and David, including films such as \"Goodfellas\", \"The Thin Red Line\", \"Schindler's List\", \"\", \"Aliens\", \"Eyes Wide Shut\". \"Russian Ark\", \"The Thin Blue Line,\" \"Evil Angels,\" \"Return Home,\" \"The Piano\"\", and Lantana.\"\n\nPomeranz and Stratton both appeared in a parody of themselves and \"At the Movies\" in the fourth episode of the ABC show \"Lawrence Leung's Choose Your Own Adventure\". They have also appeared in the ABC shows \"The Chaser's War on Everything\", \"Review with Myles Barlow\" and \"Good Game\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8244332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8244332", "title": "Australian rules football in China", "text": "Australian rules football in China\n\nAustralian rules football has been played in China since the 1990s. Interest in Australian football in China received a boost after the AFL, the premier professional football competition in Australia, invested in an AFL exhibition match in Shanghai in 2010, an AFL academy in 2011, and built a dedicated AFL oval in Tianjin in 2011.\n\nThere are a number of senior clubs spread throughout China, including in the bigger cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Tianjin, as well as Auskick programs in other cities such as Suzhou, Jiangsu province.\n\nAustralian rules was first played in Beijing in 2004, with the foundation of the Australian Expatriate team, the Beijing Bombers.\n\nThe Bombers play an annual China Cup series against the other Australian expatriate team the Shanghai Tigers, as well as starting a 3-team metro league known as the Beijing AFL in 2009.\n\nIn late 2011 into early 2012 Darrell Egan Founded the Dongguan Panther Blues team at a middle school in Humen Dongguan. The team is also known in Australia as the China Blues consists of 15 to 18 years old student players, with some old school players up to the age of 20. The team went on to play Chinese teams of locals which formed in mid 2013 and is now coached under team's original captain Lin Honghue (Leighton Lin). Darrell Egan now acts as the team's Australian Liaison manager. The Dongguan Panther Blues established the first Chinese team of locals in China in 2014. Carlton Blues player Wally Koochew (See Below) being a pioneer as the first Chinese player in VFL/AFL history the Dongguan Blues team are also the pioneers in China.\n\nThe Guangzhou Scorpions Australian expatriate team was formed in 2010, playing matches against the Hong Kong Dragons and Macau Lightning.\n\nThe Hong Kong Dragons Australian expatriate team was formed in 1990, and have been one of Asia's most successful Australian rules football clubs since this time. The Dragons play against other Asian teams regularly and have competed at all Asian Australian Football Championships to date.\n\nAuskick, the Australian football program for juniors, grew in the early 2000's after two Victorian expatriate families managed to secure official support and equipment from the AFL in Australia. Players trained at the iconic grounds at Happy Valley as well as the Australian International School Hong Kong (AISHK).\n\nA second Australian expatriate team in the Pokfulam region of Hong Kong was in existence in 2010, playing as the Pokfulam Vikings and conducting some matches against the Dragons.\n\nThe Dragons also coordinate an Auskick juniors program.\n\nAustralian football began in Macau in 2009, with the introduction of Auskick and matches at the International School of Macau. The Macau Lightning Australian expatriate senior team debuted in 2010, with matches against the Hong Kong Dragons and Pokfulam Vikings. They made their first Asian Championships appearance in Shanghai in October 2010, but failed to win any matches at the tournament.\n\nA club was established in Shanghai under the name of the Shanghai Tigers in 2002. The Tigers have a playing list consisting mainly of expatriate Australians, with some British, American and South African players as well.\n\nThe city of Suzhou does not currently have any senior clubs, although in 2007, 18 schools had introduced the sport into their curriculum.\n\nThe sister city relationship between Tianjin and Melbourne saw the beginnings of football development in 2005. By 2007, a development organisation called the AFL China had been formed, with Tianjin Normal University having two Australian football teams at its main campuses.\n\nThe Tianjin program is sponsored by the Melbourne Football Club and the Melbourne City Council, through links formed by former Melbourne Lord Mayor John So.\n\nA junior program called the Gobi Desert AFL existed at a primary school in Hami, Xinjiang in the 1990s, but this has now disappeared.\n\nA representative team mainly consisting of expat Australians in China has competed under the names China Blues and China Reds in International fixtures and Asian AFL Championships. The first national representative team composed entirely of Chinese nationals appeared as the China Red Demons at the 2008 Australian Football International Cup.\n\n\nChinese Australians have been playing Australian rules football since the late 19th century. The Ballarat Chinese Football Premiership was covered extensively between 1892 and 1896, in local newspapers.\n\nWally Koochew played four games for Carlton during 1908, in the Victorian Football League (VFL), becoming the league's first Australian player with Chinese heritage.\n\nBetween 1973 and 1985, Les Fong was a prominent and acclaimed player in the Western Australian Football League (WAFL), which held equal status to the VFL during that period. He was also selected for six State of Origin games for the Western Australian team, including the first such game (1977). Fong played 284 games for West Perth in the WAFL and remains the club's longest-serving captain (1980–85).\n\nIn August 2012, Lin Jong, a player with the of Taiwanese and East Timorese background, was elevated to the senior list and made his debut against .\n\nIn March 2016 Team China captain Chen Shaoliang, 23, joined Port Adelaide on an AFL international scholarship for the season.\n"}
{"id": "18461993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18461993", "title": "Avatar: The Last Airbender – Into the Inferno", "text": "Avatar: The Last Airbender – Into the Inferno\n\nAvatar: The Last Airbender – Into the Inferno (known as Avatar: The Legend of Aang – Into the Inferno in Europe) is a video game based on the Nickelodeon animated TV series \"\". Like the previous two games which were set in the and seasons, the game's setting is based upon the show's third and final season. The Wii version was released on October 13, 2008 in North America and on November 1, 2008 in the UK.\nA PS2 version is also available and was released on October 31, 2008 in the UK.\n\nGameplay styles vary on different platforms. In the Nintendo DS version, the characters have very large heads, giving the game a cartoonish feel. ice bridge ability returns from the previous games. Sokka's boomerang is used to disintegrate out-of-reach objects or to solve puzzles; the player draws a path for the boomerang to follow. Toph can Earthbend small platforms to get over gaps with spikes and Aang can make Whirlwinds to either change directions of objects or to get them across gaps.\n\nThe Nintendo Wii and Sony PlayStation 2 versions provide a completely different way to play. Fire balls, rocks and water can all be picked up by holding the B button and are guided using the primary controller (Wii Remote on Nintendo Wii) provided there is a nearby source. Aang can form a sphere of high winds (canonically called an \"air ball\") to break down obstacles and blow away objects by making a circle with the primary controller. Toph can lift up earth and throw it, pull earth out of walls and lift it up to make pillars. Katara can Bend water to put out fires and can freeze it into a block by shaking the secondary controller (Nunchuk on Nintendo Wii). Ice can also be pulled out of waterfalls and ice pillars can be made. Zuko can guide fire and burn things. Sokka throws his boomerang when the B button is pressed. Aang is unique, in that canonically he can bend all four elements, but only fights using Airbending.\n\nThe game received mixed reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "30728240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30728240", "title": "Baltic 1985: Corridor to Berlin", "text": "Baltic 1985: Corridor to Berlin\n\nBaltic 1985: Corridor To Berlin is a computer wargame published in 1984 by Strategic Simulations. Developed by Roger Keating, it was the third in the \"When Superpowers Collide\" series.\n\nIn 1985, after NATO halts a Soviet invasion of West Germany, and a communist invasion of Saudi Arabia is thwarted by the American Rapid Deployment Forces, the Soviets rush forces from the West German front into Poland to put down an anti-Soviet uprising. NATO takes advantage of the moment by invading East Germany to relieve the siege of West Berlin and evacuate its personnel trapped behind enemy lines.\n\nThe player may choose to play either the NATO or Soviet forces, and can play in turns against another human component or against the computer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39668938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39668938", "title": "Battle of the Atom", "text": "Battle of the Atom\n\n\"Battle of the Atom\" is a 10-part comic book crossover storyline published by Marvel Comics that debuted in September and October 2013 and ran through multiple X-Men books.\n\nThe story involves the X-Men of the future traveling to present time in order to force the time-displaced X-Men to return to their rightful time, as their presence in the current timeline will result in disastrous consequences.\n\n\"Battle of the Atom\" was announced in April 2013. The story involves the X-Men of the future traveling to present time in order to force the All-New X-Men to return to their rightful time, as their presence in the current timeline will result in disastrous consequences.\n\nBrian Michael Bendis, writer of \"All-New X-Men\", stated that the use of time travel in the story is less important than the theme of characters exploring how the choices they make early in life affect them later on in life, in a manner similar to the 1986 feature film \"Peggy Sue Got Married\". Musing on the nature of fate, and how these ideas inspired both his previous comics work, and \"Battle of the Atom\" in particular, Bendis explained:\n\nWhen Kitty Pryde's group of time displaced Original Five (O5) X-Men and Cyclops' Uncanny X-Men are forced to team up to stop an out of control new mutant, young Cyclops is killed by a Sentinel. He is resurrected moments later by one of Cyclops' recruits, who is a healer. However, in the brief moments that Young Cyclops was dead, the adult Cyclops blinked out of existence and the world around the two groups suddenly began to shudder and shake, as if reality was collapsing from the time paradox.\n\nThis causes another round of debate from Wolverine's X-Men about returning the O5 to their proper place in the timeline. The debate is suddenly interrupted by the arrival of a group of older X-Men led by an aged Kitty Pryde, the grandson of Charles Xavier, and an adult Jean Grey (the time displaced O5 Jean Grey, having never returned to the past), dressed as the new Xorn. They seek to force the X-Men to go back to the past.\n\nRealizing that something does not seem right, O5 Jean escapes with O5 Cyclops. The X-Men and \"Future X-Men\" pursue, with Xorn explaining that a catastrophe will soon befall the X-Men if the O5 do not return to their original place in the timeline. The exact nature of that catastrophe is left ambiguous.\n\nO5 Jean & Scott eventually make contact with Cyclops team of Uncanny X-Men, and after some consideration Scott agrees to help his younger self and young Jean. Realizing that Scott's thinking on the matter is compromised, Emma Frost telepathically alerts the X-Men and Future X-Men of Young Jean's and Scotts location. However, upon seeing Xorn attack her younger self, Emma has a change of heart and attacks Xorn with the Cuckoos and O5 Jean.\n\nXorn is able to defeat the combined powers of Emma and her Cuckoos, but O5 Jean is eventually able to defeat her. Xorn gives O5 Jean a glimpse of the future, a ploy on her part, which convinces O5 Jean that they need to go back to their proper place in the timeline. The three teams of X-Men part ways, with Cyclops unsure if this fight is really over.\n\nMagik, who is also suspicious of the motives of these new X-Men, travels to the future along with O5 Beast and O5 Iceman. It is discovered that these \"Future X-Men\" are really the \"Future Brotherhood\", and motives are purely self-serving. This new Brotherhood was created when Alison Blaire, also known as the X-Man Dazzler, is elected president and quickly assassinated, with the identity of the assassin unrevealed. The true \"Future X-Men\" agree to travel back in time and confront the Brotherhood.\n\nUpon arriving at the X-mansion with O5 Jean, Scott and Angel, it is discovered that the O5 Beast and Iceman are in the future. The Brotherhood realizes that they will soon have to fight Cyclops's team and the true \"Future X-Men\", and accelerate their plans. It is revealed that the \"Future Kitty Pryde\" is really Raze, the shape shifting son of Mystique and Wolverine. They attack the original X-Men, including an incapacitated Wolverine. Raze is able to infiltrate Scott's team and capture O5 Iceman and Beast.\n\nThe O5 X-Men are brought to Beast's time machine and an attempt is made to send them back in time. However, an unknown force prevents this process from being completed. As the other Brotherhood members are overwhelmed by the Uncanny X-Men and the Future X-Men, the surviving Brotherhood members flee to Cape Citadel, the site of the first battle between the O5 X-Men and Magneto.\n\nThe Brotherhood attacks the military to attract the attention of S.H.I.E.L.D. The fully united force of the Uncanny X-Men, Wolverine's team of X-Men, and the \"Future\" X-Men arrive to stop them. Xorn is able to control the S.H.I.E.L.D. weapon systems on site and launch the government Sentinels, which were being created in secret. The X-Men defeat the government Sentinels, and turn their attention to Xorn. She is able to hold the combined forces off, but her powers overload and she explodes.\n\nThe exact catastrophe that befalls the X-Men due to the O5's presence is not revealed. The Future X-Men return to their proper place in the timeline with their casualties. The whereabouts of the Brotherhood member Raze is unknown. The O5 X-Men, due to being nearly forced to go back in time, decide to leave the Jean Grey School and join the Uncanny X-Men. Kitty Pryde, disgusted that the modern X-Men tried to send the original five back by force, even hunting Cyclops and Jean down like criminals, quits and joins the O5 Team to continue to mentor them.\n\nO5 X-Men\nWolverine's X-Men\nCyclops's X-Men\nFuture Brotherhood\nFuture X-Men\n\nSeptember 2013\n\nOctober 2013\n\n\"Battle of the Atom\" has been reviewed by a number of different websites, including IGN, iFanboy and Comic Book Resources.\n\nIn January 2014, a mobile card game based on the event was released for Android devices.\n"}
{"id": "44715518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44715518", "title": "CDV Software", "text": "CDV Software\n\nCDV Software Entertainment AG (formerly CDV Software GmbH, stylized as cdv) was a German publisher of video games founded 1989 in Karlsruhe. On April 17, 2000 cdv became a Frankfurt stock market traded company. In the beginning of the 2000s CDV was the biggest German publisher in the German video game market. They opened a UK office in 2008. In 2010, VG247 reported that they filed for preliminary insolvency when SouthPeak Games failed to pay a settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "195718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195718", "title": "Cinematography", "text": "Cinematography\n\nCinematography (from ancient greek κίνημα, \"kìnema\" \"movement\" and γράφειν, \"gràphein\" \"to write\") is the science or art of motion-picture photography by recording light or other electromagnetic radiation, either electronically by means of an image sensor, or chemically by means of a light-sensitive material such as film stock.\n\nCinematographers use a lens to focus reflected light from objects into a real image that is transferred to some image sensor or light-sensitive material inside a movie camera. These exposures are created sequentially and preserved for later processing and viewing as a motion picture. Capturing images with an electronic image sensor produces an electrical charge for each pixel in the image, which is electronically processed and stored in a video file for subsequent processing or display. Images captured with photographic emulsion result in a series of invisible latent images on the film stock, which are chemically \"developed\" into a visible image. The images on the film stock are projected for viewing the motion picture.\n\nCinematography finds uses in many fields of science and business as well as for entertainment purposes and mass communication.\n\nThe word \"cinematography\" is based on the Greek words (\"kinema\"), meaning \"movement, motion\" and (\"graphein\") meaning \"to record\", together meaning \"recording motion\". The word used to refer to the art, process, or job of filming movies, but later its meaning became restricted to \"motion picture photography\".\n\nIn the 1830s, moving images were produced on revolving drums and disks, with independent invention by Simon von Stampfer (stroboscope) in Austria, Joseph Plateau (phenakistoscope) in Belgium, and William Horner (zoetrope) in Britain.\n\nIn 1845, Francis Ronalds invented the first successful camera able to make continuous recordings of the varying indications of meteorological and geomagnetic instruments over time. The cameras were supplied to numerous observatories around the world and some remained in use until well into the 20th century.\n\nWilliam Lincoln patented a device, in 1867, that showed animated pictures called the \"wheel of life\" or \"zoopraxiscope\". In it, moving drawings or photographs were watched through a slit.\n\nOn 19 June 1873, Eadweard Muybridge successfully photographed a horse named \"Sallie Gardner\" in fast motion using a series of 24 stereoscopic cameras. The cameras were arranged along a track parallel to the horse's, and each camera shutter was controlled by a trip wire triggered by the horse's hooves. They were 21 inches apart to cover the 20 feet taken by the horse stride, taking pictures at one thousandth of a second. At the end of the decade, Muybridge had adapted sequences of his photographs to a zoopraxiscope for short, primitive projected \"movies,\" which were sensations on his lecture tours by 1879 or 1880.\n\nNine years later, in 1882, French scientist Étienne-Jules Marey invented a chronophotographic gun, which was capable of taking 12 consecutive frames a second, recording all the frames of the same picture.\n\nThe late nineteenth to the early twentieth century brought rise to the use of film not only for entertainment purposes but for scientific exploration as well. French biologist and filmmaker Jean Painleve lobbied heavily for the use of film in the scientific field, as the new medium was more efficient in capturing and documenting the behavior, movement, and environment of microorganisms, cells, and bacteria, than the naked eye. The introduction of film into scientific fields allowed for not only the viewing \"new images and objects, such as cells and natural objects, but also the viewing of them in real time\", whereas prior to the invention of moving pictures, scientists and doctors alike had to rely on hand drawn sketches of human anatomy and its microorganisms. This posed a great inconvenience in the science and medical worlds. The development of film and increased usage of cameras allowed doctors and scientists to grasp a better understanding and knowledge of their projects.\n\nThe experimental film \"Roundhay Garden Scene\", filmed by Louis Le Prince on 14 October 1888, in Roundhay, Leeds, England, is the earliest surviving motion picture. This movie was shot on paper film.\n\nW. K. L. Dickson, working under the direction of Thomas Alva Edison, was the first to design a successful apparatus, the Kinetograph, patented in 1891. This camera took a series of instantaneous photographs on standard Eastman Kodak photographic emulsion coated onto a transparent celluloid strip 35 mm wide. The results of this work were first shown in public in 1893, using the viewing apparatus also designed by Dickson, the Kinetoscope. Contained within a large box, only one person at a time looking into it through a peephole could view the movie.\n\nIn the following year, Charles Francis Jenkins and his projector, the Phantoscope, made a successful audience viewing while Louis and Auguste Lumière perfected the Cinématographe, an apparatus that took, printed, and projected film, in Paris in December 1895. The Lumière brothers were the first to present projected, moving, photographic, pictures to a paying audience of more than one person.\n\nIn 1896, movie theaters were open in France (Paris, Lyon, Bordeaux, Nice, Marseille); Italy (Rome, Milan, Naples, Genoa, Venice, Bologna, Forlì); Brussels; and London.\n\nIn 1896, Edison showed his improved Vitascope projector, the first commercially successful projector in the U.S.\n\nCooper Hewitt invented mercury lamps which made it practical to shoot films indoors without sunlight in 1905.\n\nThe first animated cartoon was produced in 1906.\n\nCredits began to appear at the beginning of motion pictures in 1911.\n\nThe Bell and Howell 2709 movie camera invented in 1915 allowed directors to make close-ups without physically moving the camera.\n\nBy the late 1920s, most of the movies produced were sound films.\n\nWide screen formats were first experimented with in the 1950s.\n\nBy the 1970s, most movies were color films. IMAX and other 70mm formats gained popularity. Wide distribution of films became commonplace, setting the ground for \"blockbusters.\"\n\nFilm cinematography dominated the motion picture industry from its inception until the 2010s when digital cinematography became dominant. Film cinematography is still used by some directors, especially in specific applications or out of fondness of the format.\n\nFrom its birth in the 1880s, movies were predominantly monochrome. Contrary to popular belief, monochrome doesn't always mean black and white; it means a movie shot in a single tone or color. Since the cost of tinted film bases was substantially higher, most movies were produced in black and white monochrome. Even with the advent of early color experiments, the greater expense of color meant films were mostly made in black and white until the 1950s, when cheaper color processes were introduced, and in some years the percentage of films shot on color film surpassed 51%. By the 1960s, color became by far the dominant film stock. In the coming decades, the usage of color film greatly increased while monochrome films became scarce.\n\nAfter the advent of motion pictures, a tremendous amount of energy was invested in the production of photography in natural color. The invention of the talking picture further increased the demand for the use of color photography. However, in comparison to other technological advances of the time, the arrival of color photography was a relatively slow process.\n\nEarly movies were not actually color movies since they were shot monochrome and hand-colored or machine-colored afterwards. (Such movies are referred to as \"colored\" and not \"color\".) The earliest such example is the hand-tinted Annabelle Serpentine Dance in 1895 by Edison Manufacturing Company. Machine-based tinting later became popular. Tinting continued until the advent of natural color cinematography in the 1910s. Many black and white movies have been colorized recently using digital tinting. This includes footage shot from both world wars, sporting events and political propaganda.\n\nIn 1902, Edward Raymond Turner produced the first films with a natural color process rather than using colorization techniques. In 1908, kinemacolor was introduced. In the same year, the short film \"A Visit to the Seaside\" became the first natural color movie to be publicly presented.\n\nIn 1917, the earliest version of Technicolor was introduced. Kodachrome was introduced in 1935. Eastmancolor was introduced in 1950 and became the color standard for the rest of the century.\n\nIn the 2010s, color films were largely superseded by color digital cinematography.\n\nIn digital cinematography, the movie is shot on digital medium such as flash storage, as well as distributed through a digital medium such as a hard drive.\n\nBeginning in the late 1980s, Sony began marketing the concept of \"electronic cinematography,\" utilizing its analog Sony HDVS professional video cameras. The effort met with very little success. However, this led to one of the earliest digitally shot feature movies, \"Julia and Julia\", being produced in 1987. In 1998, with the introduction of HDCAM recorders and 1920 × 1080 pixel digital professional video cameras based on CCD technology, the idea, now re-branded as \"digital cinematography,\" began to gain traction in the market.\n\nShot and released in 1998, \"The Last Broadcast\" is believed by some to be the first feature-length video shot and edited entirely on consumer-level digital equipment. In May 1999, George Lucas challenged the supremacy of the movie-making medium of film for the first time by including footage filmed with high-definition digital cameras in \"\". In late 2013, Paramount became the first major studio to distribute movies to theaters in digital format, eliminating 35mm film entirely. Since then the demand of movies to be developed onto digital format rather than 35mm has increased drastically.\n\nAs digital technology improved, movie studios began increasingly shifting towards digital cinematography. Since the 2010s, digital cinematography has become the dominant form of cinematography after largely superseding film cinematography.\n\nNumerous aspects contribute to the art of cinematography, including:\n\nThe first film cameras were fastened directly to the head of a tripod or other support, with only the crudest kind of leveling devices provided, in the manner of the still-camera tripod heads of the period. The earliest film cameras were thus effectively fixed during the shot, and hence the first camera movements were the result of mounting a camera on a moving vehicle. The first known of these was a film shot by a Lumière cameraman from the back platform of a train leaving Jerusalem in 1896, and by 1898, there were a number of films shot from moving trains. Although listed under the general heading of \"panoramas\" in the sales catalogues of the time, those films shot straight forward from in front of a railway engine were usually specifically referred to as \"phantom rides\".\n\nIn 1897, Robert W. Paul had the first real rotating camera head made to put on a tripod, so that he could follow the passing processions of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee in one uninterrupted shot. This device had the camera mounted on a vertical axis that could be rotated by a worm gear driven by turning a crank handle, and Paul put it on general sale the next year. Shots taken using such a \"panning\" head were also referred to as \"panoramas\" in the film catalogues of the first decade of the cinema. This eventually led to the creation of a panoramic photo as well.\n\nThe standard pattern for early film studios was provided by the studio which Georges Méliès had built in 1897. This had a glass roof and three glass walls constructed after the model of large studios for still photography, and it was fitted with thin cotton cloths that could be stretched below the roof to diffuse the direct ray of the sun on sunny days. The soft overall light without real shadows that this arrangement produced, and which also exists naturally on lightly overcast days, was to become the basis for film lighting in film studios for the next decade.\n\nCinematography can begin with digital image sensor or rolls of film. Advancements in film emulsion and grain structure provided a wide range of available film stocks. The selection of a film stock is one of the first decisions made in preparing a typical film production.\n\nAside from the film gauge selection – 8 mm (amateur), 16 mm (semi-professional), 35 mm (professional) and 65 mm (epic photography, rarely used except in special event venues) – the cinematographer has a selection of stocks in reversal (which, when developed, create a positive image) and negative formats along with a wide range of film speeds (varying sensitivity to light) from ISO 50 (slow, least sensitive to light) to 800 (very fast, extremely sensitive to light) and differing response to color (low saturation, high saturation) and contrast (varying levels between pure black (no exposure) and pure white (complete overexposure).\nAdvancements and adjustments to nearly all gauges of film create the \"super\" formats wherein the area of the film used to capture a single frame of an image is expanded, although the physical gauge of the film remains the same. Super 8 mm, Super 16 mm, and Super 35 mm all utilize more of the overall film area for the image than their \"regular\" non-super counterparts. The larger the film gauge, the higher the overall image resolution clarity and technical quality. The techniques used by the film laboratory to process the film stock can also offer a considerable variance in the image produced. By controlling the temperature and varying the duration in which the film is soaked in the development chemicals, and by skipping certain chemical processes (or partially skipping all of them), cinematographers can achieve very different looks from a single film stock in the laboratory. Some techniques that can be used are push processing, bleach bypass, and cross processing.\n\nMost of modern cinema uses digital cinematography and has no film stocks , but the cameras themselves can be adjusted in ways that go far beyond the abilities of one particular film stock. They can provide varying degrees of color sensitivity, image contrast, light sensitivity and so on. One camera can achieve all the various looks of different emulsions. Digital image adjustments such as ISO and contrast are executed by estimating the same adjustments that would take place if actual film were in use, and are thus vulnerable to the camera's sensor designers perceptions of various film stocks and image adjustment parameters.\n\nFilters, such as diffusion filters or color effect filters, are also widely used to enhance mood or dramatic effects. Most photographic filters are made up of two pieces of optical glass glued together with some form of image or light manipulation material between the glass. In the case of color filters, there is often a translucent color medium pressed between two planes of optical glass. Color filters work by blocking out certain color wavelengths of light from reaching the film. With color film, this works very intuitively wherein a blue filter will cut down on the passage of red, orange, and yellow light and create a blue tint on the film. In black-and-white photography, color filters are used somewhat counter intuitively; for instance a yellow filter, which cuts down on blue wavelengths of light, can be used to darken a daylight sky (by eliminating blue light from hitting the film, thus greatly underexposing the mostly blue sky) while not biasing most human flesh tone. Certain cinematographers, such as Christopher Doyle, are well known for their innovative use of filters. Filters can be used in front of the lens or, in some cases, behind the lens for different effects. Christopher Doyle was a pioneer for increased usage of filters in movies. He was highly respected throughout the cinema world.\n\nLenses can be attached to the camera to give a certain look, feel, or effect by focus, color, etc.\n\nAs does the human eye, the camera creates perspective and spatial relations with the rest of the world. However, unlike one's eye, a cinematographer can select different lenses for different purposes. Variation in focal length is one of the chief benefits. The focal length of the lens determines the angle of view and, therefore, the field of view. Cinematographers can choose from a range of wide-angle lenses, \"normal\" lenses and long focus lenses, as well as macro lenses and other special effect lens systems such as borescope lenses. Wide-angle lenses have short focal lengths and make spatial distances more obvious. A person in the distance is shown as much smaller while someone in the front will loom large. On the other hand, long focus lenses reduce such exaggerations, depicting far-off objects as seemingly close together and flattening perspective. The differences between the perspective rendering is actually not due to the focal length by itself, but by the distance between the subjects and the camera. Therefore, the use of different focal lengths in combination with different camera to subject distances creates these different rendering. Changing the focal length only while keeping the same camera position doesn't affect perspective but the camera angle of view only.\n\nA zoom lens allows a camera operator to change his focal length within a shot or quickly between setups for shots. As prime lenses offer greater optical quality and are \"faster\" (larger aperture openings, usable in less light) than zoom lenses, they are often employed in professional cinematography over zoom lenses. Certain scenes or even types of filmmaking, however, may require the use of zooms for speed or ease of use, as well as shots involving a zoom move.\n\nAs in other photography, the control of the exposed image is done in the lens with the control of the diaphragm aperture. For proper selection, the cinematographer needs that all lenses be engraved with T-stop, not f-stop so that the eventual light loss due to the glass doesn't affect the exposure control when setting it using the usual meters. The choice of the aperture also affects image quality (aberrations) and depth of field.\n\nFocal length and diaphragm aperture affect the depth of field of a scene – that is, how much the background, mid-ground and foreground will be rendered in \"acceptable focus\" (only one exact plane of the image is in precise focus) on the film or video target. Depth of field (not to be confused with depth of focus) is determined by the aperture size and the focal distance. A large or deep depth of field is generated with a very small iris aperture and focusing on a point in the distance, whereas a shallow depth of field will be achieved with a large (open) iris aperture and focusing closer to the lens. Depth of field is also governed by the format size. If one considers the field of view and angle of view, the smaller the image is, the shorter the focal length should be, as to keep the same field of view. Then, the smaller the image is, the more depth of field is obtained, for the same field of view. Therefore, 70mm has less depth of field than 35mm for a given field of view, 16mm more than 35mm, and early video cameras, as well as most modern consumer level video cameras, even more depth of field than 16mm. \n\nIn \"Citizen Kane\" (1941), cinematographer Gregg Toland and director Orson Welles used tighter apertures to create every detail of the foreground and background of the sets in sharp focus. This practice is known as deep focus. Deep focus became a popular cinematographic device from the 1940s onwards in Hollywood. Today, the trend is for more shallow focus. To change the plane of focus from one object or character to another within a shot is commonly known as a \"rack focus\".\n\nEarly in the transition to digital cinematography, the inability of digital video cameras to easily achieve shallow depth of field, due to their small image sensors, was initially an issue of frustration for film makers trying to emulate the look of 35mm film. Optical adapters were devised which accomplished this by mounting a larger format lens which projected its image, at the size of the larger format, on a ground glass screen preserving the depth of field. The adapter and lens then mounted on the small format video camera which in turn focused on the ground glass screen. \n\nDigital SLR still cameras have sensor sizes similar to that of the 35mm film frame, and thus are able to produce images with similar depth of field. The advent of video functions in these cameras sparked a revolution in digital cinematography, with more and more film makers adopting still cameras for the purpose because of the film-like qualities of their images. More recently, more and more dedicated video cameras are being equipped with larger sensors capable of 35mm film-like depth of field.\n\nThe aspect ratio of an image is the ratio of its width to its height. This can be expressed either as a ratio of 2 integers, such as 4:3, or in a decimal format, such as 1.33:1 or simply 1.33.\n\nDifferent ratios provide different aesthetic effects. Standards for aspect ratio have varied significantly over time.\n\nDuring the silent era, aspect ratios varied widely, from square 1:1, all the way up to the extreme widescreen 4:1 Polyvision. However, from the 1910s, silent motion pictures generally settled on the ratio of 4:3 (1.33). The introduction of sound-on-film briefly narrowed the aspect ratio, to allow room for a sound stripe. In 1932, a new standard was introduced, the Academy ratio of 1.37, by means of thickening the frame line.\n\nFor years, mainstream cinematographers were limited to using the Academy ratio, but in the 1950s, thanks to the popularity of Cinerama, widescreen ratios were introduced in an effort to pull audiences back into the theater and away from their home television sets. These new widescreen formats provided cinematographers a wider frame within which to compose their images.\n\nMany different proprietary photographic systems were invented and utilized in the 1950s to create widescreen movies, but one dominated film: the anamorphic process, which optically squeezes the image to photograph twice the horizontal area to the same size vertical as standard \"spherical\" lenses. The first commonly used anamorphic format was CinemaScope, which used a 2.35 aspect ratio, although it was originally 2.55. CinemaScope was used from 1953 to 1967, but due to technical flaws in the design and its ownership by Fox, several third-party companies, led by Panavision's technical improvements in the 1950s, dominated the anamorphic cine lens market. Changes to SMPTE projection standards altered the projected ratio from 2.35 to 2.39 in 1970, although this did not change anything regarding the photographic anamorphic standards; all changes in respect to the aspect ratio of anamorphic 35 mm photography are specific to camera or projector gate sizes, not the optical system. After the \"widescreen wars\" of the 1950s, the motion-picture industry settled into 1.85 as a standard for theatrical projection in the United States and the United Kingdom. This is a cropped version of 1.37. Europe and Asia opted for 1.66 at first, although 1.85 has largely permeated these markets in recent decades. Certain \"epic\" or adventure movies utilized the anamorphic 2.39.\n\nIn the 1990s, with the advent of high-definition video, television engineers created the 1.78 (16:9) ratio as a mathematical compromise between the theatrical standard of 1.85 and television's 1.33, as it was not practical to produce a traditional CRT television tube with a width of 1.85. Until that point, nothing had ever been originated in 1.78. Today, this is a standard for high-definition video and for widescreen television.\n\nLight is necessary to create an image exposure on a frame of film or on a digital target (CCD, etc.). The art of lighting for cinematography goes far beyond basic exposure, however, into the essence of visual storytelling. Lighting contributes considerably to the emotional response an audience has watching a motion picture. The increased usage of filters can greatly impact the final image and affect the lighting.\n\nCinematography can not only depict a moving subject but can use a camera, which represents the audience's viewpoint or perspective, that moves during the course of filming. This movement plays a considerable role in the emotional language of film images and the audience's emotional reaction to the action. Techniques range from the most basic movements of panning (horizontal shift in viewpoint from a fixed position; like turning your head side-to-side) and tilting (vertical shift in viewpoint from a fixed position; like tipping your head back to look at the sky or down to look at the ground) to dollying (placing the camera on a moving platform to move it closer or farther from the subject), tracking (placing the camera on a moving platform to move it to the left or right), craning (moving the camera in a vertical position; being able to lift it off the ground as well as swing it side-to-side from a fixed base position), and combinations of the above. Early cinematographers often faced problems that were not common to other graphic artists because of the element of motion.\nCameras have been mounted to nearly every imaginable form of transportation.\n\nMost cameras can also be handheld, that is held in the hands of the camera operator who moves from one position to another while filming the action. Personal stabilizing platforms came into being in the late 1970s through the invention of Garrett Brown, which became known as the Steadicam. The Steadicam is a body harness and stabilization arm that connects to the camera, supporting the camera while isolating it from the operator's body movements. After the Steadicam patent expired in the early 1990s, many other companies began manufacturing their concept of the personal camera stabilizer. This invention is much more common throughout the cinematic world today. From feature-length films to the evening news, more and more networks have begun to use a personal camera stabilizer.\n\nThe first special effects in the cinema were created while the film was being shot. These came to be known as \"in-camera\" effects. Later, optical and digital effects were developed so that editors and visual effects artists could more tightly control the process by manipulating the film in post-production.\n\nThe 1896 movie The Execution of Mary Stuart shows an actor dressed as the queen placing her head on the execution block in front of a small group of bystanders in Elizabethan dress. The executioner brings his axe down, and the queen's severed head drops onto the ground. This trick was worked by stopping the camera and replacing the actor with a dummy, then restarting the camera before the axe falls. The two pieces of film were then trimmed and cemented together so that the action appeared continuous when the film was shown, thus creating an overall illusion and successfully laying the foundation for special effects.\n\nThis film was among those exported to Europe with the first Kinetoscope machines in 1895 and was seen by Georges Méliès, who was putting on magic shows in his Theatre Robert-Houdin in Paris at the time. He took up filmmaking in 1896, and after making imitations of other films from Edison, Lumière, and Robert Paul, he made \"Escamotage d'un dame chez Robert-Houdin (The Vanishing Lady)\". This film shows a woman being made to vanish by using the same stop motion technique as the earlier Edison film. After this, Georges Méliès made many single shot films using this trick over the next couple of years.\n\nThe other basic technique for trick cinematography involves double exposure of the film in the camera, which was first done by George Albert Smith in July 1898 in the UK. Smith's \"The Corsican Brothers\" (1898) was described in the catalogue of the Warwick Trading Company, which took up the distribution of Smith's films in 1900, thus:\n\"One of the twin brothers returns home from shooting in the Corsican mountains, and is visited by the ghost of the other twin. By extremely careful photography the ghost appears *quite transparent*. After indicating that he has been killed by a sword-thrust, and appealing for vengeance, he disappears. A 'vision' then appears showing the fatal duel in the snow. To the Corsican's amazement, the duel and death of his brother are vividly depicted in the vision, and overcome by his feelings, he falls to the floor just as his mother enters the room.\"\nThe ghost effect was done by draping the set in black velvet after the main action had been shot, and then re-exposing the negative with the actor playing the ghost going through the actions at the appropriate point. Likewise, the vision, which appeared within a circular vignette or matte, was similarly superimposed over a black area in the backdrop to the scene, rather than over a part of the set with detail in it, so that nothing appeared through the image, which seemed quite solid. Smith used this technique again in \"Santa Claus\" (1898).\n\nGeorges Méliès first used superimposition on a dark background in \"La Caverne maudite (The Cave of the Demons)\" made a couple of months later in 1898, and elaborated it with multiple superimpositions in the one shot in \"Un Homme de têtes (The Four Troublesome Heads)\". He created further variations in subsequent films.\n\nMotion picture images are presented to an audience at a constant speed. In the theater it is 24 frames per second, in NTSC (US) Television it is 30 frames per second (29.97 to be exact), in PAL (Europe) television it is 25 frames per second. This speed of presentation does not vary.\n\nHowever, by varying the speed at which the image is captured, various effects can be created knowing that the faster or slower recorded image will be played at a constant speed. Giving the cinematographer even more freedom for creativity and expression to be made.\n\nFor instance, time-lapse photography is created by exposing an image at an extremely slow rate. If a cinematographer sets a camera to expose one frame every minute for four hours, and then that footage is projected at 24 frames per second, a four-hour event will take 10 seconds to present, and one can present the events of a whole day (24 hours) in just one minute.\n\nThe inverse of this, if an image is captured at speeds above that at which they will be presented, the effect is to greatly slow down (slow motion) the image. If a cinematographer shoots a person diving into a pool at 96 frames per second, and that image is played back at 24 frames per second, the presentation will take 4 times as long as the actual event. Extreme slow motion, capturing many thousands of frames per second can present things normally invisible to the human eye, such as bullets in flight and shockwaves travelling through media, a potentially powerful cinematographical technique.\n\nIn motion pictures, the manipulation of time and space is a considerable contributing factor to the narrative storytelling tools. Film editing plays a much stronger role in this manipulation, but frame rate selection in the photography of the original action is also a contributing factor to altering time. For example, Charlie Chaplin's \"Modern Times\" was shot at \"silent speed\" (18 fps) but projected at \"sound speed\" (24 fps), which makes the slapstick action appear even more frenetic.\n\nSpeed ramping, or simply \"ramping\", is a process whereby the capture frame rate of the camera changes over time. For example, if in the course of 10 seconds of capture, the capture frame rate is adjusted from 60 frames per second to 24 frames per second, when played back at the standard movie rate of 24 frames per second, a unique time-manipulation effect is achieved. For example, someone pushing a door open and walking out into the street would appear to start off in slow-motion, but in a few seconds later within the same shot, the person would appear to walk in \"realtime\" (normal speed). The opposite speed-ramping is done in \"The Matrix\" when Neo re-enters the Matrix for the first time to see the Oracle. As he comes out of the warehouse \"load-point\", the camera zooms into Neo at normal speed but as it gets closer to Neo's face, time seems to slow down, foreshadowing the manipulation of time itself within the Matrix later in the movie.\n\nG. A. Smith initiated the technique of reverse motion and also improved the quality of self-motivating images. This he did by repeating the action a second time while filming it with an inverted camera and then joining the tail of the second negative to that of the first. The first films using this were \"Tipsy, Topsy, Turvy\" and \"The Awkward Sign Painter\", the latter which showed a sign painter lettering a sign, and then the painting on the sign vanishing under the painter's brush. The earliest surviving example of this technique is Smith's \"The House That Jack Built\", made before September 1901. Here, a small boy is shown knocking down a castle just constructed by a little girl out of children's building blocks. A title then appears, saying \"Reversed\", and the action is repeated in reverse so that the castle re-erects itself under his blows.\n\nCecil Hepworth improved upon this technique by printing the negative of the forwards motion backwards frame by frame, so that in the production of the print the original action was exactly reversed. Hepworth made \"The Bathers\" in 1900, in which bathers who have undressed and jumped into the water appear to spring backwards out of it, and have their clothes magically fly back onto their bodies.\n\nThe use of different camera speeds also appeared around 1900. Robert Paul's \"On a Runaway Motor Car through Piccadilly Circus\" (1899), had the camera turn so slowly that when the film was projected at the usual 16 frames per second, the scenery appeared to be passing at great speed. Cecil Hepworth used the opposite effect in \"The Indian Chief and the Seidlitz powder\" (1901), in which a naïve Red Indian eats a lot of the fizzy stomach medicine, causing his stomach to expand and then he then leaps around balloon-like. This was done by cranking the camera faster than the normal 16 frames per second giving the first \"slow motion\" effect.\n\nIn descending order of seniority, the following staff is involved:\n\n\nIn the film industry, the cinematographer is responsible for the technical aspects of the images (lighting, lens choices, composition, exposure, filtration, film selection), but works closely with the director to ensure that the artistic aesthetics are supporting the director's vision of the story being told. The cinematographers are the heads of the camera, grip and lighting crew on a set, and for this reason, they are often called directors of photography or DPs. The ASC defines cinematography as a creative and interpretive process that culminates in the authorship of an original work of art rather than the simple recording of a physical event. Cinematography is not a subcategory of photography. Rather, photography is but one craft that the cinematographer uses in addition to other physical, organizational, managerial, interpretive. and image-manipulating techniques to effect one coherent process.\nIn British tradition, if the DOP actually operates the camera him/herself they are called the \"cinematographer\". On smaller productions, it is common for one person to perform all these functions alone. The career progression usually involves climbing up the ladder from seconding, firsting, eventually to operating the camera.\n\nDirectors of photography make many creative and interpretive decisions during the course of their work, from pre-production to post-production, all of which affect the overall feel and look of the motion picture. Many of these decisions are similar to what a photographer needs to note when taking a picture: the cinematographer controls the film choice itself (from a range of available stocks with varying sensitivities to light and color), the selection of lens focal lengths, aperture exposure and focus. Cinematography, however, has a temporal aspect (see persistence of vision), unlike still photography, which is purely a single still image. It is also bulkier and more strenuous to deal with movie cameras, and it involves a more complex array of choices. As such a cinematographer often needs to work co-operatively with more people than does a photographer, who could frequently function as a single person. As a result, the cinematographer's job also includes personnel management and logistical organization. Given the in-depth knowledge. a cinematographer requires not only of his or her own craft but also that of other personnel, formal tuition in analogue or digital filmmaking can be advantageous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11077784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11077784", "title": "Circus Smirkus", "text": "Circus Smirkus\n\nCircus Smirkus is a non-profit, award-winning, international youth circus founded in 1987 by Rob Mermin. Based in Greensboro, Vermont, the mission of Circus Smirkus is to promote the skills, culture and traditions of the traveling circus and to inspire youth to engage in the circus arts.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2010, the circus has had more than 4,000 youths aged 10–18 in its summer camps.\n\nThis annual camp was located at Sterling College in Craftsbury, Vermont through 2009. The camp relocated onto the campus of Lyndon Institute in Lyndon, Vermont in 2010.\n\nAs of 2015, the camp moved to the Smirkus HQ, Greensboro, VT. A new campus was built 2014-2015.\n\nSmirkus' performers and coaches have come from Canada, China, Colombia, United Kingdom, Ethiopia, Zambia, Canada, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Moldova, Mongolia, the Netherlands, Russia, Sweden, Thailand, Ukraine, ten Native American nations and 20 US states. At the International Children's Festival at Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts in September 2000, Circus Smirkus was introduced as \"the United Nations of the youth circus world.\"\n\nCircus Smirkus has a summer camp that trains children in areas such as aerials, clowning/performance, acrobatics and juggling. Participants may also choose to train in other skills such as human pyramids, unicycling and stilt walking. The circus opened its Summer 2015 season at new, permanent facilities—a 135-year-old farmhouse on in Greensboro, Vermont. The camp sessions offered throughout the season vary from one night overnight camps, one and two-week camps, and advanced camps, including Junior Road Show, Road Show, Ensemble and Aerial Acts. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35085391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35085391", "title": "Conquest of the Desert (exhibition)", "text": "Conquest of the Desert (exhibition)\n\nConquest of the Desert was a world's fair held in Jerusalem, Israel in 1953 at Binyanei Ha'uma, a convention center in Jerusalem. It focused on the themes of reclamation and population of desert area.\nThe exhibition was opened on 22 September by president Ben Zvi and acting premier Moshe Sharett. It lasted for 22 days, closing on 14 October. It was visited by 600,000 people.\n\nThirteen foreign countries participated. This included the United States, although it declared a boycott of the opening ceremony. The Soviet Union declined to attend. UNESCO and the World Health Organization also attended.\n\nPostage stamps commemorating the exhibition were designed by Abram Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "20209731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20209731", "title": "Dillon's Reprise Room", "text": "Dillon's Reprise Room\n\nDillon's Reprise Room, is a cabaret, located on West 54th Street in Manhattan's Theater District. Over the years, Dillons has been home to successful musical runs of \"Our Sinatra,\" \"Water Coolers,\" and most recently \"Boobs! The Musical,\" as well as some of cabaret's top performers.\n\n"}
{"id": "26933787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26933787", "title": "Early widescreen feature filmography", "text": "Early widescreen feature filmography\n\nA widescreen aspect ratio was first seen in a movie in Paramount's \"Old Ironsides\" of 1926. A few years later in 1928 and '29, a fad broke out for such special features as widescreen and color. Color was the more common choice, being that it was projected the same as black and white while theaters needed wider screens and special lenses for their projectors to show widescreen movies. With the lack of a standard for widescreen aspect ratios, studios had to go to the expense of filming several versions of a widescreen movie to cover the more common kinds of projector lens. The first movie to combine the two was \"Fox Movietone Follies of 1929\", widescreen and partially in color. The next year there were two, \"Song of the Flame\" and \"Kismet\", which are today both lost films. By late 1930, however, most of the planned widescreen movies were shelved as studios began to feel the effects of The Great Depression and were forced to economize.\n\nIn 1953, 20th Century Fox returned to the concept and began using the CinemaScope process to make widescreen movies, such as \"How to Marry a Millionaire\". Widescreen grew in popularity during the 1950s, and since 1960 nearly every American feature film has been widescreen.\n\nBW stands for \"black and white\".\n"}
{"id": "7893964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7893964", "title": "Electronicam", "text": "Electronicam\n\nElectronicam was a television recording system that shot an image on film and television at the same time through a common lens. It was developed by James L. Caddigan for the DuMont Television Network in the 1950s, before electronic recording on videotape was available. Since the film directly captured the live scene, its quality was much higher than the commonly used kinescope films, which were shot from a TV screen.\n\nThe image passes through a lens into a beam splitter that sends half the light to a 35 mm or 16 mm camera mounted on the right side of the television camera. The other half of the light passes to the other side, through a 45-degree angle mirror and into a video camera tube. Because the camera dollies had to support two cameras—one conventional electronic \"image orthicon\" TV camera tube, and one 35mm motion picture camera—the system was bulky and heavy, and somewhat clumsy in operation. This made complex productions problematic. Single-stage shows, such as \"The Honeymooners\", were relatively easy since they had few sets and generally small casts.\n\nIn the studio, when two or three Electronicam cameras were used, a kinescope system recorded the live feed (as broadcast), so the Electronicam films could later be edited to match. The audio was recorded separately, onto either a magnetic fullcoat (1952, and all later) or as an optical soundtrack negative (pre-1952).\n\nThe DuMont Television Network used Electronicam in 1955 to produce most of its studio-based programming since it had (except for occasional sports events) discontinued use of coaxial cable and microwave links to connect stations. Stations would be sent films of shows for broadcast.\n\nThe \"Classic 39\" episodes of \"The Honeymooners\" aired during the 1955–56 television season on CBS were shot with Electronicams, which meant they could be rerun on broadcast TV, and eventually transferred to home video. Without Electronicams, the half-hour \"The Honeymooners\" episodes in the 1955-56 season may have been broadcast live, and would only exist as poor-quality kinescopes.\n\nAlso, around 1956 British producer Joseph Arthur Rank brought three Electronicams to the United Kingdom to experiment with, but eventually, he was disappointed with the picture quality.\n\nThe introduction of Ampex's videotape recorder in mid-1956 began to eliminate the need for Electronicam and similar systems, allowing electronic recording from live video cameras.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12675025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12675025", "title": "Ernesto de Quesada", "text": "Ernesto de Quesada\n\nErnesto de Quesada López Chaves (1 November 1886 — 1972) was the Cuban-born impresario who founded Conciertos Daniel, the classical music management agency now known as Hispania Clásica.\n\nErnesto de Quesada was born in the Oriente, in Manzanillo, Cuba, when Cuba was still a Spanish colony (see the history of Cuba). After he completed high school and college, he devoted himself for a time to teaching guajiros how to read, riding his horse or walking long distances to reach them. (In Cuba, guajiro is a synonym for campesino (peasant).)\n\nIn 1905, with his income from teaching and some additional funds borrowed from his parents, de Quesada went to the United States. There he studied English for some months in Boston, Massachusetts, attending church on Sundays to listen to the services and accustom his ears to the new language. He enrolled at Harvard University, where one of his fellow students was Julio Cesar Tello, who would later become an archaeologist in Peru. They remained friends for many years. After completing his philosophy studies at Harvard, de Quesada went to Germany.\n\nIn 1908, in Berlin, de Quesada founded the concert management company Konzertdirektion H. Daniel. As he was only 22 years old and the agency's sole proprietor, he invented an imaginary senior business partner, \"Herr Heinrich Daniel,\" who was said to be out of town whenever anyone asked to speak to him.\n\nIn 1914, on the verge of World War I, de Quesada moved to Madrid, there re-establishing his agency as Conciertos Daniel, with plaques for \"H. Daniel\" and \"Ympresario E. de Quesada\" on the doorway, where the artists he would represent included Gaspar Cassadó and Andrés Segovia. In 1916, he married Ascensión Delgado Casarreales, a graduate (guitar and violin) of the Conservatorio de Música.\n\nIn 1917, as Arthur Rubinstein's music manager for his concerts in Spain and Latin America (from 1916), de Quesada travelled with him from Cádiz to South America on the cruiser \"Infanta Isabel.\" Rubinstein performed his Argentina debut concert in Buenos Aires at the Teatro Odéon (Teatro Colón?) on 2 July 1917, in a tour which included concerts in Montevideo, Santiago de Chile and Valparaíso as well.\n\nIn Spain, Ernesto de Quesada also created “Associations for Musical Culture,” founding an \"Asociación de Cultura Musical\" in each of more than fifty cities in Spain, including small towns where people had never before heard a classical music recital. He also loaned each of them a \"piano de cola\" — a grand piano — without asking for payment. These associations nearly disappeared during the Spanish Civil War, as did the pianos.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War and World War II, Conciertos Daniel was primarily active in Latin America, expanding throughout the continent, where de Quesada's sons Alfonso, Enrique, and Ernesto Jr. worked closely with him. (As correspondence in the mid-1940s with members of the Léner Quartet reveals, concert management tasks were not always straightforward or simple.) Ernesto de Quesada's youngest son, Ricardo de Quesada, head of the agency in Madrid since his father died in 1972, reorganised it as Hispania Clásica in 1996. One of the founder's grandsons, Enrique de Quesada, Jr. in Caracas, is its director for Latin America.\n\nErnesto de Quesada also founded La Sociedad Artística Daniel and La Sociedad Musical Daniel. La Sociedad Musical Daniel was the organizing force on the Latin American side for a twenty-eight-week U.S. government-sponsored ballet tour of Latin America in 1941, which was said by \"Dance Magazine\" to have been \"the first example of an American government's support of dance.\"\n\nWith fellow impresario Sol Hurok and others, de Quesada was present when Daniel Barenboim (then age 13) and Arthur Rubinstein met for the first time, in Paris in 1955.\n"}
{"id": "24194878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24194878", "title": "Fast Lane Daily", "text": "Fast Lane Daily\n\nFast Lane Daily, sometimes referred to as FLD, was an Internet-based video newscast about the automotive industry, created by Emil Rensing, a founder of Next New Networks. Fast Lane Daily was part of AutoStream, Inc. and Time inc. Its first episode first aired on February 17, 2007. As of July 27, 2016, Fast Lane Daily aired its last episode and the show has since been put on indefinite hiatus by its owners, Time Inc., who bought them in February 2016. \n\nFLD was hosted by Derek DeAngelis and ran daily, Monday through Friday. Alex Roy, JF Musial, and Leo Parente moved to the DRIVE channel. Past FLD hosts include Ji Young Min, Tinabeth Piña, Alex Gizela, Carrie Milbank, Andrea Feczko, Michael Spinelli and Ray Wert of Jalopnik.com, Gumball 3000 veteran Alex Roy of Team Polizei, Richard Owens of Supercars.net and Bullrun rally driver Ashley Van Dyke.\n\nAs of July, 2016, FLD had over 312,000 YouTube subscribers and shot over 2,500 episodes (available on its YouTube channel), one of the highest episode counts for an internet show. Historical view count for FLD on YouTube stands at 220 million as of July, 2016.\n\nOn December 20, 2010, FLD aired its 1,000th episode. Most of the clips in the episode were recorded at the Nürburgring when the crew took a trip to Germany during Halloween of the same year. Unlike most episodes, which are normally 5 to 10 minutes in length, the 1,000th episode ran for over 20 minutes and was the first one in high definition.\nOn December 10, 2014, FLD aired its 2,000th episode. The episode took place at the Hennessey Performance with Derek DeAngelis showing off the facility and cars. Unlike the 1,000th episode, the 2,000th episode is only slightly longer than a normal episode at 13 minutes.\n\nOn January 14, 2010, Next New Networks announced that their entire automotive portfolio would continue to be produced by AutoStream. With the move, Fast Lane Daily had a shift in production and format. Before January 2012, news segments of Fast Lane Daily were released Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of every week while Leo Parente's motorsport segment, \"Shakedown\", was released every Friday.\n\nStarting December 23, 2011, there were a number of changes to the show. Parente's \"Shakedown\" and Roy & Musial's \"Road Testament\" are now moved to the YouTube channel DRIVE and Fast Lane Daily together with DRIVE has moved to a new studio in Times Square, New York City.\n\nThere were a total of five segments that recurred each week as part of the show. Every Monday a \"Commenter of the Week\" was recognized, every Tuesday was \"You're Doing it Wrong\", featuring a video involving a less-than-intelligent person and a car, and every Wednesday was \"Friendsday Wednesday\" featuring a subscriber who has done something worth mentioning during the show. On Friday, for \"Rapid Fire News,\" Derek very quickly read off some news that happened during the week. The fifth segment was 'FLD Question of the day' where Derek answered a question that a community member had submitted.\n\nAt the 2008 Webby Awards, Fast Lane Daily won the People's Voice Award in the Sports category. At the 2009 Webby Awards, Fast Lane Daily gained an Honoree Award in the same category.\n\n"}
{"id": "1660165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660165", "title": "Flipper (1964 TV series)", "text": "Flipper (1964 TV series)\n\nFlipper is an American television program first broadcast on NBC from September 19, 1964, until April 15, 1967. Flipper, a bottlenose dolphin, is the pet of Porter Ricks, Chief Warden at Coral Key Park and Marine Preserve (a fictional version of John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park in Key Largo, Florida), and his two young sons, Sandy and Bud. The show has been dubbed an \"aquatic \"Lassie\"\", and a considerable amount of children's merchandise inspired by the show was produced during its first run.\n\nThe television show is an extension of the 1963 film \"Flipper\" starring Chuck Connors and Luke Halpin as Porter and Sandy Ricks, and of its 1964 sequel, \"Flipper's New Adventure\". For the second film the producers scripted that Mrs. Ricks had died, making Porter now a single parent, with Brian Kelly taking over the role as Porter Ricks but now as a trainee Park Ranger rather than a fisherman. In adapting the films to a television series, the producers gave Porter a second, younger son, Bud, portrayed by Tommy Norden, and the TV series sees him returning permanently to the Florida Keys as the Park Ranger of the Coral Key Marine Preserve. The producers also departed from the films in endowing Flipper with an unnatural degree of intelligence and an extraordinary understanding of human motives, behavior, and vocabulary.\n\nThe show was created, by way of the creation of the first film, by Jack Cowden and Ricou Browning, who had experience in underwater filming and underwater performance, notably as the monster in \"The Creature from the Black Lagoon\". In Browning's second filmed portrayal of the Creature, \"Revenge of the Creature\", a scene showcases one of the film's shooting locations, Marineland of Florida (depicted with a fictionalized name), presenting several stunts performed by \"Flippy, the Educated Porpoise\", in a form of product placement. Browning also wrote the book \"Flipper\" based on the ancient legend of Taras, a mythical founder of the Spartan City State of the same name (on the coast of Italy where modern day Taranto is located) who was rescued from shipwreck by a dolphin sent by Poseidon, which was picked up and adapted by famous producer Ivan Tors into the first \"Flipper\" movie.\n\n\"Flipper\" was filmed in Miami at Greenwich Studios (at the time called Ivan Tors Studios) at 12100 Ivan Tors Boulevard in Miami, Florida, USA and at Key Biscayne, Florida. Nassau was an occasional location, especially for underwater footage. The show was produced in cooperation with the Miami Seaquarium, an aquarium also located on Key Biscayne in Miami.\n\nMiami Seaquarium still presents the Flipper Show; a dolphin show in the lagoon that served as the film location for the show.\n\nThe Miami Seaquarium set where \"Flipper\" was filmed also served as the set of another Ivan Tors production, \"Gentle Ben\"; the house where the Ricks family lived was the same house used for the Wedloe family on \"Gentle Ben.\" Flipper was moved to Jimbo's Shrimp (also known as Jimbo's Place), located across from Miami Seaquarium, into the care and exercise of James \"Jimbo\" Luznar, Sr. Flipper lived in a pen in the cove behind Jimbo's Shrimp.\n\nFlipper was portrayed at first by a female dolphin named Susie, though primarily by another female, Kathy, and occasionally by other females named Patty, Scotty and Squirt. Female dolphins were chosen because they are less aggressive than males and their skins (unlike the skins of male dolphins) are usually free from scars and other disfigurations acquired in altercations with other dolphins, making it easier to have them pass for the identical \"Flipper\". The five dolphins performed all of Flipper's scenes except the famous tail walk, a trick they were unable to master completely. A male dolphin named Clown was brought in for scenes involving the tail walk. The famous \"voice\" of Flipper was actually the doctored song of a kookaburra bird.\n\nThe show's theme tune was credited to Henry Vars with lyrics by By Dunham. In France the melody was known as \"La Romance de Paris\" (\"The Love Song of Paris\"). The first five episodes of the second season featured a different version of the theme, with Frankie Randall singing new lyrics. After those episodes, the original style of the theme was brought back. The background music of the long underwater sequences was inspired by Ravel's \"Daphnis and Chloe\".\n\nFilming began in the early summer of 1964, and the first episode of Season 1 was broadcast on September 19, 1964, with the series ending with the 28th episode of Season 3 being broadcast on April 15, 1967; showing on NBC Saturday nights 7:30–8:00 pm, making 88 episodes in total. NBC continued broadcasts with repeats from season 3 until September 1967. One episode (episode 3 in Season 1 called \"SOS Dolphin\") was filmed earlier in 1964 as a pilot immediately after the filming of \"Flipper's New Adventure\" was completed. Brian Kelly appeared in all 88 episodes, Luke Halpin in 85 and Tommy Norden in 84 episodes. Later, reruns of the first two seasons aired January 1968 – June 1968, NBC, Sunday 6:30–7:00 pm and June 1968 – September 1968, NBC, Sunday 7:00–7:30 pm.\n\nIn its debut season in the 1964–65 United States network television schedule, Flipper was a considerable ratings success, rating in the Top 25 especially going up against the long-standing and popular \"The Jackie Gleason Show\" on CBS. Ratings declined only slightly in Season 2 1965–66 United States network television schedule buoyed by its proximity to NBC's popular new Saturday night shows \"I Dream of Jeannie\" and \"Get Smart\". Ratings fell sharply in Season 3 against the strong rise in ratings for Gleason's show.\n\n\n\n\"Flipper\" was notable for the casting of a number of guest actors, a good portion of whom went on to stardom in later years or had already had a stellar acting career.\n\nThe series follows a Bottlenose Dolphin named Flipper who is the wild pet of Porter Ricks, a park warden, and his sons Sandy (15) and Bud (10). Flipper lives in a lagoon near the Ricks cottage at Coral Key Park and Marine Preserve. With the Ricks family, Flipper helps protect the park and preserve and its wild inhabitants. He is also instrumental in apprehending criminals and thugs in the park. Flipper is generally recognized by the characters in the show (and the theme song) as being a particularly intelligent and capable dolphin. Flipper is the special companion of the youngest member of the Ricks family, Bud, and several episodes feature Flipper rescuing Bud from dangerous situations. Flipper is able to somehow communicate through different chatter like tones, head nods and shakes and others attention seeking antics with Sandy and Bud and draw their (and Porter's) attention to danger or in the direction of people needing help. There are few women in the lives of the Ricks males but in the first season, Porter does have a date while Sandy falls for the girl operator of a floating zoo who appears in four episodes. A female oceanographer enters the series in the second season to add a feminine touch to the proceedings but little more than mild flirtations and fondness between her and Porter ensues. Promotional material for the third season announced a new girlfriend for Sandy, although she only appeared in one episode and he has an innocently flirtatious scene with another girl in a separate episode. The series is distinguished for its lush photography of subtropical Florida and its colorful underwater sequences.\n\nThe last first-run episode of \"Flipper\" aired April 15, 1967. In the conclusion of a two-part episode, the characters of Sandy and Bud are written out of the show (by that time both actors Luke Halpin and Tommy Norden had grown out of their roles), as it is detailed how each plans to leave Coral Key — Sandy has been accepted to the Coast Guard Academy in Connecticut, and Bud will be attending a private school remedially in Massachusetts, as arranged by their Aunt Martha. At the same time, a new family (the Whitmans) moves to the area: a widowed mother (portrayed by Karen Steele) and her young son and daughter (portrayed by Stuart Getz and Chris Charney). The two new children are depicted as unfamiliar with maritime life, but they promptly befriend Flipper, and promise to be his new companions after Sandy and Bud leave. Plans were made for a fourth season; revolving around the Whitman children taking the role of Flipper's guardians/playmates and their mother becoming involved in a serious relationship with Porter. It would be assumed that Sandy and Bud would make a cameo visit in an episode or two. All this was for naught, however, as Ivan Tors chose not to continue to make a fourth season in this new format, so NBC cancelled it.\n\n\"Flipper\" has seen periodic syndication since its NBC cancellation. The show has aired on cable's Family Channel, Nickelodeon, Animal Planet, Discovery Kids, in high-definition on satellite provider Voom's Family Room channel, and on digital subchannel Antenna TV. Most of the images of Flipper jumping against a skyline were not in the originally aired version, as the filming took place in an enclosed lagoon. They were filmed at the end of the series and added for syndication.\n\nThe rights to \"Flipper\" were later acquired by The Samuel Goldwyn Company, and in turn acquired by MGM Television (the company that originally produced the series). MGM owns full rights to the series; the series copyright is held by MGM's subsidiary Orion Pictures (whose own holdings include the Goldwyn library).\n\nFlipper appears as a character in the Cartoon Network series \"The Annoying Orange\".\n\nAs of November 2016, \"Flipper\" airs as one of a handful of classic TV series (alongside Ivan Tors' earlier series \"Sea Hunt\") on the primarily movie-oriented digital subchannel This TV. In 2017, \"Flipper\" and \"Sea Hunt\" began airing together on Light TV.\n\nThe series was broadcast in the early 1970s in the USSR and the show was well received by the Soviet people, both old and young alike.\n\n\"Flipper\" merchandise generated for the juvenile market during the show's first run is now scarce and collectible. \"Flipper\" vintage collectibles include: lunch boxes, song books, comic books, coloring books, a Whitman novel, Big Little Books, souvenir spoons, Whitman frame tray puzzles, a board game, Viewmaster reels (based on the two-part episode \"Dolphin Love\"), a battery-operated \"spouting dolphin\" water toy, children's swim trunks with the Flipper logo, and a 1966 Bradley glow-in-the-dark watch. \"Dolphin Paradise\" is a Hangame app based on the Flipper television series.\n\nFlipper received an incomplete VHS release during the 1990s under the title \"Flipper–Original Series\". MGM Home Entertainment (distributed by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment) released the first season on DVD on April 24, 2007. They subsequently released season 2 as an 8 disc set in June 3, 2010. This is a Manufacture-on-Demand (MOD) release, available exclusively from Amazon.com.\n\nAs of February 2017 the series is available on Blu-ray in Japan, South Korea, and Hong Kong.\n\nOn August 29, 2017, Olive Films re-released the first two seasons on DVD in Region 1. They also released seasons 1 and 2 on Blu-ray for the very first time. Season 3 was released on October 31, 2017 on DVD and Blu-ray. \n\nThe Miami Seaquarium celebrated the 50th Anniversary of \"Flipper\" in late 2013 with Tommy Norden and Ricou Browning participating along with a series of commemorative events through 2014. A previous event celebrating the 40th anniversary of \"Flipper\" in 2004 was also held with Luke Halpin and Tommy Norden. \"Flipper\" was nominated for two TV Land awards: in 2004 for the TV Land Favorite Fauna Award and, in 2003, for the TV Land Favorite Pet-Human Relationship Award. \"Flipper\" appeared twice on \"TV Guide\" covers.\n\nWhile the TV show itself was not controversial, several controversies have spun off of it. Ric O'Barry, the head trainer of the Flipper Dolphins (and also Luke Halpin's occasional stunt double), became a world-renowned animal activist after the death of the dolphin who portrayed Flipper most often. O'Barry stars in the Oscar award-winning documentary \"The Cove\", which features dolphin capture and captivity. He also wrote of his time with the Flipper movies and TV series and subsequent animal rights activism in a book entitled \"Behind the Dolphin Smile\".\n\n"}
{"id": "45061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45061", "title": "From Hell", "text": "From Hell\n\nFrom Hell is a graphic novel by writer Alan Moore and artist Eddie Campbell, originally published in serial form from 1989 to 1998 and collected in 1999. \n\nSet during the Whitechapel murders of the late Victorian era, the novel speculates upon the identity and motives of Jack the Ripper. The novel depicts several true events surrounding the murders, although portions have been fictionalised, particularly the identity of the killer and the precise nature and circumstances of the murders. \n\nThe title is taken from the first words of the \"From Hell\" letter, which some authorities believe was an authentic message sent from the killer in 1888. The collected edition is 572 pages long. The 2000 and later editions are the most common prints. The comic was loosely adapted into a film, released in 2001. It was banned in Australia for a couple of months in 2000.\n\n\"From Hell\" was originally serialized as one of several features in \"Taboo\", an anthology comic book published by Steve Bissette's Spiderbaby Grafix. After running in \"Taboo\" #2–7 (1989–1992), Moore and Campbell moved the project to its own series, published first by Tundra Publishing, then by Kitchen Sink Press. The series was published in ten volumes between 1991 and 1996, and an appendix, \"From Hell: The Dance of the Gull-catchers\", was published in 1998. The entire series was collected in a trade paperback and published by Eddie Campbell Comics in 1999; trade paperback and hardcover versions are now published by Top Shelf Productions in the United States and Knockabout Comics in the UK. A fully colorized Master Edition was serialized starting in September 2018.\n\n\"From Hell\" takes as its premise Stephen Knight's theory that the Jack the Ripper murders were part of a conspiracy to conceal the birth of an illegitimate royal baby fathered by Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence, slightly modified: the involvement of Walter Sickert is reduced, and Knight's allegation that the child's mother was a Catholic has been dropped. Knight's theories have been described as \"a good fictional read\" whose \"conclusions have been disproved numerous times\". In an appendix added to the collected \"From Hell\", Moore writes that he did not accept Knight's theory at face value (and he echoed the then-growing consensus that such claims were likely hoaxes), but considered it an interesting starting point for his own fictional examination of the Ripper murders, their era and impact. However, in the serialised publication of \"Dance of the Gull-Catchers\" Moore included an \"author's statement\" which consisted of a blown-up panel from the prologue, depicting the psychic Robert James Lees confessing that although his visions were fraudulent, they were accurate: \"I made it all up, and it all came true anyway. That's the funny part.\"\n\nMoore and Campbell conducted significant research to ensure plausibility and verisimilitude. The collected \"From Hell\" features over forty pages of page-by-page notes and references, indicating which scenes are based wholly on Moore's own imagination and which are based upon specific named sources. Moore's opinions on the reliability of those references are also listed. The annotations are followed by an epilogue in comics format, \"The Dance of the Gull-Catchers\", in which Moore and Campbell expand on the various theories of the Ripper crimes and the likelihood—or rather, the near-impossibility—of the true identity of the culprit ever being established.\n\nPrince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence, also known as Prince Eddy, marries and fathers a child with Annie Crook, a shop girl in London's East End. Prince Eddy had visited the area under an assumed name and Annie is unaware of her husband's royal position. Queen Victoria becomes aware of the marriage and has Albert separated forcibly from his wife, whom she places in an asylum. Victoria then instructs her royal physician Sir William Gull to impair Annie's sanity, which he does by damaging or impairing her thyroid gland. The prince's daughter is taken to Annie's parents by the artist Walter Sickert, a friend of Eddy's who had accompanied him on his trips to the East End. Her father believes the child to be his through an incestuous relationship with his daughter. Sickert reluctantly leaves the child with Annie's parents.\n\nThe potentially scandalous matter is resolved, until a group of prostitutes — Annie's friends Mary Kelly, Polly Nichols, Anne Chapman, and Liz Stride — who are aware of the illegitimate child and its royal connections, attempt to blackmail Sickert to pay off a gang of thugs who are threatening them. After Queen Victoria learns of the blackmail attempt, Gull is once again enlisted, this time to silence the group of women who are threatening the crown. The police are complicit in the crimes — they are granted prior knowledge of Gull's intentions, and are adjured not to interfere until the plot is completed.\n\nGull, a high-ranking Freemason, begins a campaign of violence against the four women, brutally murdering them with the aid of a carriage driver, John Netley. While he justifies the murders by claiming they are a Masonic warning to an apparent Illuminati threat to the throne, the killings are, in Gull's mind, part of an elaborate mystical ritual to ensure male societal dominance over women. While targeting Kelly, Gull also kills Catherine Eddowes, who was using Kelly's name as an alias. As the killings progress, Gull becomes more and more psychologically unhinged, until he finally has a full psychic vision of the future while murdering Kelly.\n\nThe story also serves as an in-depth character study of Gull; exploring his personal philosophy and motivation, and making sense of his dual role as royal assassin and serial killer. Though rooted in factual biographical details of Gull's life, Moore admitted taking substantial fictional license: for example, the real-life Gull suffered a stroke; Moore fictionalises this event as a theophany, with Gull seeing \"Jahbulon\", a masonic figure, fundamentally altering Gull's world view and indirectly leading to the murders.\n\nGull takes Netley on a tour of London landmarks (including Cleopatra's Needle and Nicholas Hawksmoor's churches), expounding on their hidden mystical significance, which is lost to the modern world. Later, Gull forces the semi-literate Netley to write the infamous From Hell letter which lends the work its title. Following this, several people write letters to the police claiming to be the murderer, and the nickname \"Jack the Ripper\" becomes a household name. Gull has a number of transcendent experiences in the course of the murders, culminating with a vivid vision of what London will be like a century after the last murder. It is implied that, through his grisly activities, male dominance over femininity is assured, and the 20th century is thus given its dominant form, though Gull finds it disgusting nevertheless.\n\nInspector Frederick Abberline investigates the Ripper crimes without success until a fraudulent psychic, Robert James Lees, acting on a personal grudge against Gull, identifies him as the murderer. Gull confesses, and Lees and Abberline, shocked, report the matter to superiors within the police, who cover up the discovery. They inform both Abberline and Lees that Gull was operating alone, and gripped by insanity. Abberline later discovers through chance Gull's actual intentions to cover up the matter of the royal \"bastard\" fathered by the Duke of Clarence, and resigns from the Metropolitan Police, protesting the official cover-up of the murders.\n\nGull is tried by a secret Freemasonic council, which determines he is insane; Gull, for his own part, refuses to submit to the council, informing them that no man amongst them may be counted as his peer, and may not therefore judge the \"mighty work\" he has wrought. A phony funeral is staged, Gull is imprisoned under a pseudonym \"Thomas Mason\", and the Freemasons frame boarding school teacher Montague Druitt as a suspect, killing him and making it look like suicide. Years later, and moments before his death, Gull has an extended mystical experience, where his spirit travels through time, observing the crimes of the London Monster, instigating or inspiring a number of other killers (Peter Sutcliffe, Ian Brady), causing Netley's death, as well as serving as the inspiration for both Robert Louis Stevenson's \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\" and William Blake's painting \"The Ghost of a Flea\". The last experience his spirit undergoes before it \"becomes God\" is a view of a woman, who, in the novel's appendices, is implied to be Mary Kelly. She is apparently able to see his spirit and abjures him to begone \"back to Hell\".\n\n\"From Hell\" was partly inspired by the title of Douglas Adams' novel \"Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency\", in that it explores the notion that to solve a crime holistically, one would need to solve the entire society in which it occurred. Moore's take on the Jack the Ripper murders is not a \"whodunit\": he spells out his culprit, William Gull, and the ostensible reasons for his actions very early on. But as Gull remarks, \"Averting Royal embarrassment is but the fraction of my work that's visible above the waterline.\" The murders are an occult ritual, a complex human sacrifice using Victorian London itself as an altar. The symbolism of London's landmarks is explored in the fourth chapter, in which Gull explains his motives to his uncomprehending coachman, and employs psychogeography to tie together these landmarks with the city's history.\n\nGull is depicted as a misogynist who opposes women's suffrage, along with other progressive movements of his time. Women had power over men once, Gull believes, and the irrational, Dionysian unconscious mind once dominated the rational, Apollonian conscious mind. Moore cites writers such as Marilyn French and Robert Graves, who argue (as the fictional Gull does) that women held both political and religious power prior to the rise of patriarchal religions such as Christianity. Gull is reason's lunatic: he believes he is carrying out an act of magic to enforce the rational, masculine hegemony.\n\n\"From Hell\" also explores Moore's ideas on the nature of time. Early on, Gull's friend James Hinton discusses his son Howard's theory of the \"fourth dimension\", which proposes that time is a spatial dimension. All time co-exists, and it is only the limits of our perception that make it appear to progress. Sequences of related events can be seen as shapes in the fourth dimension: history can \"be said to have an architecture\", as Gull puts it. Gull's experiences seem to confirm this: he has visions of the 20th century during the murders, and as he is dying he experiences, and appears to influence, past and future events. Moore had earlier explored similar ideas in \"Watchmen\", where Doctor Manhattan perceives past, present and future simultaneously, and describes himself as \"a puppet who can see the strings\".\n\nPerhaps the most elaborate theme in \"From Hell\" stems from Moore's statement that \"the Ripper murders — happening when they did and where they did — were almost like an apocalyptic summary of... that entire Victorian age. Also, they prefigure a lot of the horrors of the 20th century.\" In Moore's reading of the works of contemporary artists including Émile Zola and the post-impressionist painters, the prostitute had become an icon of the working lives of the impoverished and disenfranchised. He notes that the 1880s saw the Mahdi uprisings, the first time the Western world had to face militant Islamic fundamentalism; physicists were beginning to make discoveries that would pave the way to the atomic bomb; and the growth of both Zionism and anti-Semitism. The period of the killings coincides with the conception of Adolf Hitler and the final scene alludes to the outbreak of World War II. After the final murder, during which Gull has an extended vision of 1990s England, Gull says, \"It is beginning, Netley. Only just beginning. For better or worse, the twentieth century. I have delivered it.\"\n\nMuch of the metaphysical speculation in \"From Hell\" can be attributed to Moore's embrace of gnosticism, which takes a more central role in his other work, most notably his comic series \"Promethea\".\n\nOn a more prosaic level, Moore indicts the inequalities of Victorian society, contrasting Gull and the wealthy circles he moves in with the hand-to-mouth existence of the women he targets; the moral disgust shown at the peccadilloes of the poor with the depths to which the rich are prepared to sink to protect the image of propriety; and the imaginary anti-Semitic conspiracy theories which divert the police's investigations with the real conspiracy that controls them. During one murder, scenes from the killing are interspersed with scenes from a nearby meeting of a socialist club, addressed by William Morris, where a portrait of Karl Marx comes to dominate the scene. In his appendix, Moore sardonically expresses regret that England never had a revolution as France did.\n\nJust about every notable figure of the period is connected with the events in some way, from \"Elephant Man\" Joseph Merrick to Oscar Wilde, from the Native American writer Black Elk to William Morris, the artist Walter Sickert to Aleister Crowley, who makes a brief appearance as a young boy in short trousers, sucking on a candy cane, and lecturing the police about magic.\n\nAccording to his notes in his appendix, Moore was somewhat inconsistent with how \"historically accurate\" the events within the graphic novels are. On one hand, he revealed that he had actually written an entire scene where Abberline gets into an argument with Buffalo Bill and Annie Oakley; he rewrote it after research revealed that Buffalo Bill had left England by the time of the murders. On the other hand, again according to his own notes, he had William Morris appear in London on the night of one of the murders, although historical records show he was out of town that night. Morris, however, does not interact with any of the characters, but is simply seen reading his poem \"Love Is Enough\", while Gull murders Elizabeth Stride in the alley below.\n\nIn \"The Dance of the Gull Catchers\" Moore reports that he had been drawn into and even obsessed with the particulars of the Ripper murders. The Ripperologists—or \"Gull Catchers\" as he refers to them—are depicted as unhinged men running about with large butterfly nets, chasing details and connections, however tenuous. Initially, Moore observes them from a distance, but eventually—while researching and writing \"From Hell\"—he joins them. Moore compares the multitude of increasingly outlandish Ripper theories to a Koch snowflake, where a finite, fixed location, event and era (London, in late 1888) can have an infinite number of nooks and crannies. Ultimately, Moore observes that the longer the Gull Catchers chase after the Ripper, the more the ground underneath them becomes churned and unrecognisable mud; their attempts to uncover the truth only serve to obscure it and cause further confusion.\n\n\"From Hell\" has won several Eisner Awards, including \"Best Serialized Story\" (1993), \"Best Writer\" (1995, 1996, 1997), and \"Best Graphic Album – Reprint\" (2000).\n\nIt also won the \"Prix de la critique\" at the Angoulême International Comics Festival in 2001, for the French edition published by Éditions Delcourt.\n\nThe comic series was a top vote getter for the Comics Buyer's Guide Fan Award for \"Favorite Limited Series\" for 1997, and the collected edition won their Award for Favorite Reprint Graphic Album in 2000.\n\nDuring its initial serialization, \"From Hell\" received the 1996 International Horror Guild Award for Graphic Story/illustrated Narrative.\n\nA film, loosely based on the novel, was made by the Hughes brothers in 2001, starring Johnny Depp, Heather Graham and Ian Holm. It received mixed reviews from critics, with a rating of 57% on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nFX is developing a \"From Hell\" drama series with Don Murphy who produced the film, is executive producing and David Arata will write the adaptation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45583707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45583707", "title": "Ganapati Chakraborty", "text": "Ganapati Chakraborty\n\nGanapati Chakraborty () (1858 - 20 November 1939) was an magician from Kolkata known for his mesmerizing tricks. He is considered to be the pioneer of modern magic in Bengal. He was the mentor of P. C. Sorcar and K Lal.\n\nGanapati was born in a zamindar family in the village of Chhatra near Serampore in Hooghly district. In his childhood, he was not interested in studies. He was rather interested in singing and music. At the age of 17 or 18, he left his home for the company or Hindu monks in order to learn esoteric knowledge and supernatural healing techniques. He also came in touch with one or two magicians.\n\nGanapati began his career at the Great Bengal Circus as comedian where he became famous through his fun tricks. Soon he began to show magic tricks. His two acts \"Illusion Box\" and \"Illusion Tree\" mesmerized the audience. During his 1908 Singapore tour with Professor Bose's Circus, his tricks with the cards and his vanishing act proved to be successful. He developed his famous trick \"Kangsha Karagar\". The audience believed that he was endowed with supernatural powers. He earned the accolade of the best performer in Professor Bose's Circus. He was a man of short temper and unruly speech. Because of this nature, his colleagues bestowed upon him the sobriquet - Durbasa Muni.\n\nLater on, he left Professor Bose's Circus and formed his own circus company with few performers from the former. He toured all over India with his own circus and earned lot of fame and money.\n\nIn his later life, Ganapati built a house and a temple in Baranagar near Kolkata. His spent the rest of his life in spiritual pursuit. He penned in book in Bengali titled 'যাদুবিদ্যা'. He decided to donate this property to Sri Bhupendra Nath Roy Chowdhury\n\n"}
{"id": "9203710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9203710", "title": "George Carl", "text": "George Carl\n\nGeorge Carl (7 May 1916 – 1 January 2000) was a \"vaudevillian\" style comic & clown. Carl was born in Ohio, and started his comedy career traveling with a variety of circuses during his teenage years. In time, Carl would become internationally famous as a clown and visual comedian. Johnny Carson, a fan of Carl's, invited him to appear on The Tonight Show on March 21, 1985 when Carl was 69. His appearance was so well received that he was asked back within weeks for a second appearance which also received raves from viewers.\nHe appeared again on May 27, 1986 doing essentially his same act and received great laughter from an obviously appreciative audience.\n\nWith hardly any props, except for a microphone, a mic stand, his hat, and sometimes a harmonica, Carl would seemingly accidentally become tangled up in the mic cord, get his thumb stuck in the microphone stand and, through a flurry of silent bits, wind up accomplishing nothing at all in the time spent onstage.\n\nAt the age of 79, George Carl made his screen debut in the 1995 film \"Funny Bones\" also starring Jerry Lewis. He played an old music-hall comedian, one of the Parker brothers, who never spoke until a scene in which his character explains the reason performers perform;\n\n\"Our suffering is special. The pain we feel is worse than anyone else. But the sunrise we see is more beautiful than anyone else. The Parkers is...like the moon. There's one side forever dark. Invisible. As it should be. But remember, the dark moon draws the tides also.\"\n\nComedians using similar visual material include Charlie Frye, Bill Irwin, Geoff Hoyle, Barry Lubin, Chipper Lowell, Rob Torres, and Avner the Eccentric.\n\nCarl died of cancer in Las Vegas on January 1, 2000. \n\n"}
{"id": "46454892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46454892", "title": "Hand of Fate (video game)", "text": "Hand of Fate (video game)\n\nHand of Fate is an action role-playing video game developed and published by Defiant Development for Linux, Microsoft Windows, OS X, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, released in February 2015. A PlayStation Vita version was announced but ultimately cancelled due to development issues.\n\n\"Hand of Fate\" has the player work their way through randomized dungeons, generated by cards selected from customizable decks, to try to reach a final boss of each dungeon. Most of the game is played through an in-game tabletop tableau, with the player's actions narrated and executed by the mysterious Dealer, at times requiring the player to make choices to proceed. When combat occurs, the game switches to a third-person perspective brawler-style game, requiring the player to time attacks, blocks, dodges, and other abilities to defeat enemies without losing all their health. As the player progresses, they can earn tokens, which, upon completion of a dungeon (successfully or not), gain them additional cards that they can used to customize their decks for the next dungeon run.\n\n\"Hand of Fate\" received generally positive reviews, and led to the successful crowdfunded physical variation of the game. A sequel, \"Hand of Fate 2\", was released in November 2017.\n\n\"Hand of Fate\" is an action role-playing video game with roguelike and deck-building elements. The player takes the role of a nameless hero that meets a strange Dealer voiced by Anthony Skordi, in a \"cabin at the end of the world\". This dealer narrates the player's adventure, dealing the game's cards, rewards, penalties, lore, and commentary. He also serves as the primary antagonist for the game.\n\nOn starting a new game, the player is given a starting deck of cards, consisting of equipment, hero class, and encounter cards. The player earns more cards as they progress in the game, which they can use to customize their deck up to a fixed size. Furthermore, the dealer has his own deck from which surprising elements such as more challenging encounters and monsters are drawn that also grows as the player gains cards and progresses through the game.\n\nIn the game's Story Mode, the player must defeat thirteen bosses: twelve court cards and the Dealer himself. These bosses, representing the royalty of each suit, must be defeated in order, but the player can return to previous bosses to challenge again and unlock new rewards. After a certain number of these bosses are defeated, the player also unlocks Endless Mode, which provides an infinite number of \"floors\" of increasing difficulty for the player to challenge with every card they have collected up to that point.\n\nTo progress in Story Mode, the player must complete a \"dungeon\" by exploring two or more \"floors\" created by a tableau of randomized, face-down encounter cards dealt from the combined deck of \"both\" player and Dealer. In addition to random encounters, each floor also includes either an exit encounter that lets the player reach the next floor, or a boss encounter on the final floor of that dungeon. The player starts with a limited amount of health, food, and initial equipment, modified by the player's selected class card and certain conditions obtained over the course of the story. To navigate each floor of the dungeon, the player moves a token across the tableau one card at a time, revealing it if face down. When each card is encountered, the Dealer narrates the event and resolves its effects.\n\nEvents can include meeting non-player characters, shops to buy and sell cards that benefit the player for the remainder of that dungeon, enemy encounters, or chance events that may benefit or hinder the player. Some of these events include a tree of options that the player can choose, while chance is presented as four shuffled cards representing rates of success or failure. Each movement step consumes food, and certain events can cause the player to gain or lose health, food, gold, blessings, curses, or equipment. The latter three can augment the player's attack power, defensive power, health, speed, or provide special abilities or conditions both inside and out of combat.\n\nIf the player encounters a monster or maze of traps, the number and type of enemy are determined by cards drawn by the Dealer (if any). The game then enters a third-person perspective action mode, where the player can attack, dodge, reflect and counterattack enemies and traps represented by the cards that were drawn. Damage taken is reflected in the player's overall health, which can be recovered normally with food or at certain shops and healers. On completing some encounters, the Dealer will present special tokens representing new cards that the player will receive at the conclusion of that dungeon, regardless of whether they won or were defeated.\n\nIf the player's character loses all of their health (i.e., by encounter or starvation) or chooses to forfeit from the in-game menu, they lose that dungeon, and the board is reset after they receive their tokens. If the player successfully beats the dungeon's boss, they progress one step forward in the story. The Dealer awaits the player for the final showdown and confrontation, so the player must pay close attention to deck-building, strategy, tactics, and chance in order to succeed.\n\n\"Hand of Fate\" was first shown at the 2013 Game Developers Conference. A playable demo build was shown to the public at PAX Australia in July 2013. By this point, the game had been in development for under six months. Defiant Development are a team of approximately fifteen based in Brisbane, they described \"Hand of Fate\" as their \"first big push\" onto PC platforms following their previous mobile projects. Like all other Defiant games, \"Hand of Fate\" is built in Unity.\n\nThe game was part funded through a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign. It was one of the first Australian projects to launch on Kickstarter. The campaign launched in November 2013 and concluded in December 2013, achieving its target. Not only was the campaign a financial success, it also allowed Defiant to build an audience and get feedback on pre-release builds. A Greenlight campaign was launched simultaneously so that the game could be released on Steam, and the game was approved in January 2014.\n\nA week following the crowdfunding campaign, an alpha build was released for Kickstarter backers. A beta version followed in February 2014, and in July, the game launched for Windows, OS X, and Linux on Steam Early Access. The full version was released for Windows, OS X, Linux, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 17 February 2015.\n\nA sequel, \"Hand of Fate 2\", had been announced with a planned early 2017 release, but was eventually first released on November 7, 2017 for personal computers and PlayStation 4, with an Xbox One version to release shortly afterwards. The sequel will add more challenges that the player must meet to proceed in dungeons, stronger monsters to face in battle, and companions that can be gained during the adventure which assist the player in combat. \"Hand of Fate 2\" will also release on the Nintendo Switch on July 17, 2018.\n\nDefiant worked with the board game development company Rule & Make to transition the video game into a deck-building game called \"Hand of Fate: Ordeals\". The board game allows for one to four players to cooperatively work together to process through quests in a similar manner as the video game. They sought about $22,000 in crowd-funding for publication via a Kickstarter campaign in May 2017; the campaign surpassed its goal within a day, and ended with more than $360,000 pledged.\n\nIn July 2016, Defiant Development partnered with IndieBox to produce an exclusive, custom-designed, physical release of \"Hand of Fate\". This individually-numbered collector’s box included a themed USB drive with DRM-free copy of the game, official soundtrack, instruction manual, Steam key, and several custom-made collectibles.\n\n\"Hand of Fate\" received positive reviews. Aggregating review websites GameRankings and Metacritic gave the Microsoft Windows version 81.58% based on 13 reviews and 78/100 based on 27 reviews, the Xbox One version 79.75% based on 12 reviews and 80/100 based on 11 reviews and the PlayStation 4 version 79.28% based on 18 reviews and 79/100 based on 15 reviews.\n\nThe game sold about 400,000 copies across personal computers and consoles, and it was downloaded more than 1.5 million times as part of a free game promotion for Xbox Live.\n\n"}
{"id": "289598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289598", "title": "Home zone", "text": "Home zone\n\nA home zone is a living street (or group of streets) as implemented in the United Kingdom, which are designed primarily to meet the needs of pedestrians, cyclists, children and residents and where the speeds and dominance of the cars is reduced.\n\nLegislation was introduced by the Highway Act 1835 which banned the playing of football and games on the highway with a maximum penalty of up to forty shillings (£ as of 2015). In 1860 Taverner John Miller, MP for Colchester reported to the House of Commons that in the previous year 44 children had been sent to prison in London and Middlesex for failure to pay fines for playing in the street, highlighting the case of a 12-year-old boy sent to prison for 5 days for playing rounders. In 1925 Nancy Astor MP noted in the Commons that \"There is no more pitiable sight in life than a child which has been arrested for playing in the street\". By 1935 over 2,000 young people under the age of seventeen are prosecuted for playing in the streets.\n\nIn 1934 Leslie Hore-Belisha became Transport Minister and initiated a number of road safety schemes in response the rising number of Road Casualties in Great Britain; these included the zebra crossing and a proposal to introduce play streets to the UK, which had been successfully operating in the USA. Following a trial of 200 Play Streets in Manchester and Salford from 1936, the Street Playground Act 1938 allowed councils to designate streets as playgrounds where games could be played.\n\nIn 1957 the Transport Minister was asked in the Commons if he was aware that playground streets regulations were being ignored and were frequently used by through traffic; the Minister responded saying that the size of Playground Streets signs had recently been increased in size to make them more prominent. Play street legislation was included in section 49 of the Road Traffic Act 1960.\n\nBy 1963 there were 750 such streets around the country, but there was also growing conflict between the needs of children and the needs of motorists. In that year Ernest Marples, the Transport minister, was asked in the Commons if he could make a statement about the issue of car parking in play street; he responded by indicating that he had only occasionally received complaints about parking issues in play streets. In the same year a petition was presented in the Commons from residents objecting to the illegal use of their playground street in Westminster being used by through-traffic and by people parking cars By contrast, the minister was also questioned in the Commons about a recently approved Playgrounds Street Order for a number of streets in Newcastle which was reported to have been opposed by all residents. In 1976 Trevor Huddleston, the Bishop of Stepney commented that Britain appeared to prefer motor cars to children ‘by cluttering up Play Streets with parked cars'. By the 1980s Playgrounds Streets had been largely forgotten; there were streets which retained the signage and accompanying traffic restrictions, however residents' parked cars left no space for play.\n\nThe main enabling legislation for home zones is given in section 268 of the Transport Act 2000 which allows the creation of 'use orders' which are orders that 'permit the use of a road for purposes other than passage'. In 2002 Farley Bank, a cul-de-sac in Hastings was designated as a Play Street giving children traffic-free space for play between 8am and sunset.\n\nFurther guidelines relating to England in circular 02/2006: 'The Quiet Lanes and Home Zones (England) Regulations 2006'.\n\nThese principles are similar to those of the \"shared space\" type schemes, which apply also to a wider range of environments and follow closely the pattern of the Dutch woonerf schemes.\n\nEncouraging children's play is an important aim of many home zone schemes. Home zones have a very good safety record, but are not primarily designed as road safety schemes.\n\nHome zones are encouraged by the UK Government as part of new residential areas. Although it is not possible for prospective residents to be involved in the design of new streets, steps can be taken to involve them in their maintenance and management. Residents must be need to be consulted by the local Traffic Authority on the precise uses that can take place on the street (specified through a 'Use Order') and the appropriate speed of traffic on the street (specified through a 'Speed Order') before the home zone can be legally designated and signed.\n\nHome zones often involved the use of shared space, where the street is not strongly divided into exclusive pedestrian and traffic areas. Concerns have been expressed over the inability of blind and partially sighted people to use shared space streets. Providing a clear route for pedestrians that is kept free of traffic, by using street furniture for example, is one way of meeting the needs of the visually impaired.\n\nWell-designed home zones often include features such as benches, tables and play equipment to encourage social interaction. Street trees and areas of planting, ideally maintained by residents, will often feature. On-street parking also forms part of the layout in most schemes.\n\nTraffic speeds are kept low - with a typical target speed being around 20 km/h (10-15 mph) - through the overall design of the street and features such as sharp changes of direction for traffic and narrowings where only one motor vehicle can pass at a time. Traditional traffic calming features such as road humps can also be used, but should be integrated into the design rather than being added as an engineered afterthought.\n\nExamples of UK practice include Staiths South Bank in Gateshead, which at over 600 homes was the largest newbuild home zone development in the UK at the time it received planning consent. Most contemporary UK schemes have involved public realm works to existing streets in older Victorian housing areas, often to meet regeneration or traffic calming objectives.\n\n"}
{"id": "4287389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4287389", "title": "Human image synthesis", "text": "Human image synthesis\n\nHuman image synthesis can be applied to make believable and even photorealistic renditions of human-likenesses, moving or still. This has effectively been the situation since the early 2000s. Many films using computer generated imagery have featured synthetic images of human-like characters digitally composited onto the real or other simulated film material.\n\n\n\n\nIn SIGGRAPH 2000 Paul Debevec et al. of USC presented their method to capture the reflectance field with their extremely simple light stage.\n\nThe scientific breakthrough required finding the subsurface light component (the simulation models are glowing from within slightly) which can be found using knowledge that light that is reflected from the oil-to-air layer retains its polarization and the subsurface light loses its polarization. So equipped only with a movable light source, movable video camera, 2 polarizers and a computer program doing extremely simple math and the last piece required to reach photorealism was acquired.\n\nFor a believable result both light reflected from skin (BRDF) and within the skin (a special case of BTDF) which together make up the BSDF must be captured and simulated.\n\n\nThe whole process of making digital look-alikes i.e. characters so lifelike and realistic that they can be passed off as pictures of humans is a very complex task as it requires photorealistically modeling, animating, cross-mapping, and rendering the soft body dynamics of the human appearance.\n\nSynthesis with an actor and suitable algorithms is applied using powerful computers. The actor's part in the synthesis is to take care of mimicking human expressions in still picture synthesizing and also human movement in motion picture synthesizing. Algorithms are needed to simulate laws of physics and physiology and to map the models and their appearance, movements and interaction accordingly.\n\nOften both physics/physiology based (i.e. skeletal animation) and image-based modeling and rendering are employed in the synthesis part. Hybrid models employing both approaches have shown best results in realism and ease-of-use.\n\nUsing displacement mapping plays an important part in getting a realistic result with fine detail of skin such as pores and wrinkles as small as 100 µm.\n\nMain applications fall within the domains of virtual cinematography, computer and video games and covert disinformation attacks.\n\nFurthermore, some research suggests that it can have therapeutic effects as \"psychologists and counselors have also begun using avatars to deliver therapy to clients who have phobias, a history of trauma, addictions, Asperger’s syndrome or social anxiety.\" The strong memory imprint and brain activation effects caused by watching a digital look-alike avatar of yourself is dubbed the doppelgänger effect.\nThe doppelgänger effect can heal when covert disinformation attack is exposed as such to the targets of the attack.\n\nThe speech synthesis is verging on being completely indistinguishable from a real human's voice with the 2016 introduction of audio generation software Adobe Voco, a prototype slated to be a part of the Adobe Creative Suite and DeepMind WaveNet, a prototype from Google.\nAbility to steal and manipulate other peoples voices raises obvious ethical concerns.\nThis coupled with the fact that (as of 2016) techniques which allow near real-time counterfeiting of facial expressions in existing 2D video have been believably demonstrated increases the stress on the disinformation situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "54179626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54179626", "title": "Kakao Friends", "text": "Kakao Friends\n\nKakao Friends (stylized as KAKAO FRIENDS) are featured characters based on KakaoTalk emoticons released in November 2012 by Kakao, managed by their subsidiary Kakao Friends Corporation. The company carries out character related businesses. \n\nThe character illustrator is Kwon Soon-ho, also known by his pen name Hozo. Kakao Friends has been used in various products and commercials, and has gained popularity and have become beloved characters in South Korea.\n\nKakao Friends characters were developed in about two months after the idea meeting in July 2012 began. The Kakao Friends manager stated that he created these characters to make the KakaoTalk IM service easy and fun for the public.\n\n\n\n\nSince Kakao Friend's character products have been growing mainly in the market of Kidult culture, Kakao Friends officials stated that they will make character goods by paying attention to these parts. \n\nIn July 2014, the Daum Kakao partnered with Samlip Food and launched four kinds of \"Shanni Kakao Friends Bread\". In the early four species, there were about 130 kinds of sticky cacao friends' strips. In February 2015, they launched a brand of toothpaste with Kakao friend characters on it, in collaboration with LG H & H. An industry official stated that although they had put their company's character on children's products before, this was the first attempt to put their characters on adult products.\nIn May 2015, Burger King collaborated with Kakao Friends and offered a Kakao Friend Doll if one made an order for more than a certain price in the store. [8] Baskin Robbins has also sold ice cream cakes that featured Apeach and Muzi's faces.\n\nIn August 2015, the Daum Kakao launched 'Friend's Pop', the first mobile game that utilized the Kakao Friend character, and launched 'Friends Run', the sequel, in May 2016. Both games were rated top 10 in the Google Play sales.\n\nIn November 2014, the Daum Kakao collaborated with Woori Bank to launch the 'Woori Bank Wallet Kakao Bankbook', a design account book with a bank account and a Kakao friends character account. In June 2015, in conjunction with Hana Card, KakaoPay's exclusive check card was launched using the Kakao Friend character.\n\nBeginning in Sinchon in April 2014, the company opened a store in the form of a pop-up store in major department stores in major cities such as Daegu and Busan, and several stores were established as regular stores. In addition to the character products sold in stores, KaKao Friends characters are used in collaboration with other companies in other fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "57063764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57063764", "title": "List of Prêmio Angelo Agostini winners", "text": "List of Prêmio Angelo Agostini winners\n\nThis article is a list of winners of Prêmio Angelo Agostini, sorted by category.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165226", "title": "Minnesang", "text": "Minnesang\n\nMinnesang (, \"love song\") was a tradition of lyric- and song-writing in Germany that flourished in the Middle High German period. This period of medieval German literature began in the 12th century and continued into the 14th. People who wrote and performed were known as Minnesänger (, \"minnesingers\"), and a single song was called a . \n\nThe name derives from \"minne\", the Middle High German word for love, as that was Minnesang's main subject. The \"Minnesänger\" were similar to the Provençal troubadours and northern French \"trouvères\" in that they wrote love poetry in the tradition of courtly love in the High Middle Ages.\n\nIn the absence of reliable biographical information, there has been debate about the social status of the \"\". Some clearly belonged to the higher nobility – the 14th century Codex Manesse includes songs by dukes, counts, kings, and the Emperor Henry VI. Some \"Minnesänger\", as indicated by the title \"Meister\" (master), were clearly educated commoners, such as Meister Konrad von Würzburg. It is thought that many were \"ministeriales\", that is, members of a class of lower nobility, vassals of the great lords. Broadly speaking, the \"Minnesänger\" were writing and performing for their own social class at court, and should be thought of as courtiers rather than professional hired musicians. Friedrich von Hausen, for example, was part of the entourage of Friedrich Barbarossa, and died on crusade. As a reward for his service, Walther von der Vogelweide was given a fief by the Emperor Frederick II.\n\nSeveral of the best known Minnesänger are also noted for their epic poetry, among them Heinrich von Veldeke, Wolfram von Eschenbach and Hartmann von Aue.\n\nThe earliest texts date from perhaps 1150, and the earliest named Minnesänger are Der von Kürenberg and Dietmar von Aist, clearly writing in a native German tradition in the third quarter of the 12th century. This is referred to as the Danubian tradition.\n\nFrom around 1170, German lyric poets came under the influence of the Provençal troubadours and the French \"trouvères\". This is most obvious in the adoption of the strophic form of the \"canzone\", at its most basic a seven-line strophe with the rhyme scheme ab|ab|cxc, and a musical AAB structure, but capable of many variations.\n\nA number of songs from this period match \"trouvère\" originals exactly in form, indicating that the German text could have been sung to an originally French tune, which is especially likely where there are significant commonalities of content. Such songs are termed contrafacta. For example, Friedrich von Hausen's \"Ich denke underwilen\" is regarded as a contrafactum of Guiot de Provins's \"Ma joie premeraine\".\n\nBy around 1190, the German poets began to break free of Franco-Provençal influence. This period is regarded as the period of Classical Minnesang with Albrecht von Johansdorf, Heinrich von Morungen, Reinmar von Hagenau developing new themes and forms, reaching its culmination in Walther von der Vogelweide, regarded both in the Middle Ages and in the present day as the greatest of the Minnesänger.\n\nThe later Minnesang, from around 1230, is marked by a partial turning away from the refined ethos of classical minnesang and by increasingly elaborate formal developments. The most notable of these later \"Minnesänger\", Neidhart von Reuental introduces characters from lower social classes and often aims for humorous effects.\n\nOnly a small number of Minnelied melodies have survived to the present day, mainly in manuscripts dating from the 15th century or later, which may present the songs in a form other than the original one. Additionally, it is often rather difficult to interpret the musical notation used to write them down. Although the contour of the melody can usually be made out, the rhythm of the song is frequently hard to fathom.\n\nThere are a number of recordings of Minnesang using the original melodies, as well as Rock groups such as Ougenweide performing songs with modern instruments.\n\nIn the 15th century, Minnesang developed into and gave way to the tradition of the Meistersänger. The two traditions are quite different, however; Minnesänger were mainly aristocrats, while Meistersänger usually were commoners.\n\nAt least two operas have been written about the Minnesang tradition: Richard Wagner's \"Tannhäuser\" and Richard Strauss' \"Guntram\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following love poem, of unknown authorship, is found in a Latin codex of the 12th century from the Tegernsee Abbey.\nThe standard collections are\n\nThere are separate editions of Walther's works, and of a number of the most prolific Minnesänger. There are many published selections with Modern German translation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34985558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34985558", "title": "NUE Agency", "text": "NUE Agency\n\nNue Agency is a Creative Music Agency located in New York City. Nue sits at the center of music, brands and technology, transforming the music business through its approach to talent development, deal-making, and brand building. In 2013 they were named to Inc Mag’s 500 list as the 3rd fastest growing Media Company.\n\nNue Agency was founded in 2008 by Jesse Kirshbaum who still serves as the company’s CEO. Soon after, Alex Kirshbaum (Jesse’s brother) would agree to join the company and move back to New York from Florida where he was working in finance.\n\nWith its roots as a booking agency, Nue was the first agency on record for artists such as Clipse, Wale, Mike Posner, Chiddy Bang, White Panda,\nBig Sean, J. Cole, Logic, Capital Cities, Action Bronson, Odd Future, Solange Knowles, Pusha T, Hoodie Allen, and Sound Remedy.\n\nIn 2017, NUE created a partnership with General Electric (GE) and electronic DJ/producer, Gryffin, to compose an original song inspired by the numerous energies and machines that connect our world – specifically the grid. The track, entitled “Illuminate”, premiered in front of a live audience at a Daybreakers dance party in Williamsburg, Brooklyn to kick off Summer 2017.\n\nNue Agency is the lead agency for The Patch. The Patch is a program with Sour Patch Kids that provides comfortable, cozy housing for promising, touring artists at either of their fully renovated properties in Brooklyn, NY, Austin, TX and Hollywood. The artists stay at The Patch houses for free and are encouraged to post photos and videos of them while at the Patch using the hashtags #AustinPatch and #BrooklynPatch. So far, over 100 artists such as X-Ambassadors, Zella Day, Conrad Sewell, Deer Tick (band), Kevin Garrett, Us The Duo, Bosco, Soulection, Priory, Hiatus Kaiyote, Halsey, Echosmith, KYLE, and BØRNS have stayed at the house.\n\nIn September 2015, Sour Patch Kids and Nue Agency won a Clio Music award for their work in brand activation with The Patch.\n\n♯CRWN is a live, candid interview series hosted by journalist, blogger, and entrepreneur Elliott Wilson and executively produced by Nue. Filmed in front of a studio audience, ♯CRWN is an in-depth, interactive conversation that has featured Drake, Macklemore, Big Sean, Lil Wayne, R. Kelly,\nRick Ross, Nicki Minaj, J. Cole, T.I. and many more.\n\nNue Agency operates SoundCtrl, it’s the premier emerging publication chronicling music and technology. Nue also created and is the executive producer for the FlashFWD awards, which brings attention to the innovators revolutionizing the way we create and consume music technology.\n"}
{"id": "30858182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30858182", "title": "Narobov", "text": "Narobov\n\nKolektiv Narobov is a performing arts collective from Ljubljana, Slovenia. In their very beginnings, the members of the collective have been trained in the Northamerican style of theatre improvisation, influenced by some of its most notable practitioners, such as Keith Johnstone, Del Close, Ruth Zaporah, Randy Dixon, and others. However, ever since they have been developing their unique approach to improvisation, combining theatre improvisation techniques with the influences of physical theatre, contemporary dance and clowning. Kolektiv Narobov has made significant steps in applying the principles of spontaneous composition and live interaction with the audience, as done in theatre improvisation, into various other styles and media. These range from experimental theatre, clown and cabaret pieces to site-specific performances and radio plays, all the way to film.\n\nSince the founding of the collective in 2004, Kolektiv Narobov has reached international acclaim, touring, guest-performing and teaching all across Europe, Canada and the United States.\n\nIn 2013, Kolektiv Narobov has joined Zavod Federacija Ljubljana, a big network of Slovenian artists who offer each other organisational, artistic and production support.\n\n\"Should I Stay or Should I Go?\", 2013-2015\n\n\n\n\nKolektiv Narobov have received awards for creative achievements in radio and television (Ježek Award in 2007) and for best experimental theatre improvisation performance (First Prize at Impronale 2007 and Impronale 2010).\n\n"}
{"id": "43415751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43415751", "title": "One Over The Eight", "text": "One Over The Eight\n\nOne Over the Eight was a comedy revue performed on April 5, 1960. It was written by Peter Cook and starred Kenneth Williams.\n\nThe material included a \"One Leg Too Few\" sketch and \"Interesting Facts\" sketch with Williams playing an E L Wisty character. It also featured Sheila Hancock.\n\nThe \"Evening News\" said it was \"Scandalously funny\" while the \"Evening Standard\" said it was \"Snappy and gay.\" It was performed at the Duke of York's Theatre, London.\n\nIt was the sequel to \"Pieces of Eight\".\n"}
{"id": "6496110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6496110", "title": "Pankun", "text": "Pankun\n\nPan-kun (パン君, born October 1, 2001) is a young chimpanzee in Japan often featured on the NTV television show \"Tensai! Shimura Dōbutsuen\" (\"天才！志村動物園\", lit. \"Genius! Shimura Zoo\") and the TBS program \"Dōbutsu Kisō Tengai!\" (\"どうぶつ奇想天外!\", lit. \"Unbelievable Animals!\"). Most of the segments feature him and his bulldog friend, James, embarking on a variety of \"human\" tasks, like buying groceries, planting a rice paddy, or catching insects.\n\nPankun is now owned by Cuddly Dominion, a zoo located beside the volcano Mount Aso, in the Kumamoto Prefecture of Kyūshū. After moving in, Pankun has turned into the main event of the zoo, featuring daily stage shows of various themes in Japanese.\n\nIn 2012 when Pankun was performing for the Aso Cuddly Dominion Zoo, he attacked a student trainee staff and severely injured her. The attack was sudden and it left \"cuts on her forehead, ears, ankles, and back.\" The woman was flown by a helicopter to a hospital where she was hospitalized for weeks. As a result, Pankun was forced to retire from the show business in the Cuddly Dominion zoo.\n\nThe show has also been translated into international versions; for Nickelodeon in India as \"The Munnabhai Show\", for JET TV in Taiwan (狗狗猩猩大冒險), for Modern Nine in Thailand (ขำกลิ้งลิงกับหมา) and TVB in Hong Kong (阿笨與阿占) as \"\", winning Best Foreign Purchased Program at the 2006 TVB Anniversary Awards.\n"}
{"id": "29246047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29246047", "title": "Platform HD", "text": "Platform HD\n\nPlatforma HD () was a Russian operator of satellite TV which broadcasts a package of HD-quality channels over the European territory of Russia. In addition, the package of channels of high-definition was available for retransmission in cable networks.\n\nPlatforma HD broadcasts the programs via satellite Eurobird 9A (9,0°E).\n\nBesides channels from the packages of Platform HD and Platform DV, every subscriber can receive the un-encrypted TV and radio channels free of charge.\n\nFor viewing channels in HD quality the company recommends to use the following receiving equipment:\nSatellite:\nCable:\n\nYou can receive Platform HD signal directly from the satellite or through the cable network.\n\nIn the European part of Russia Platform HD was available via satellite on Eurobird 9А. You can choose the size of a satellite dish according to your region. In order to make a good choice, you have to contact the authorized dealers of the Platform HD.\n\n9 degrees east longitude\n\n\"Platform HD\"\nFrequency:  12,380 MHz\nPolarization:  Vertical (V)\nTransmission standard:  DVB-S2\nModulation:  8PSK\nSymbol rate:  26,400\nFEC:  2/3\nFrequency: 12,303 MHz\nPolarization: Vertical (V)\nTransmission standard: DVB-S2\nModulation: 8PSK\nSymbol rate: 26,400\nFEC: 2/3\n\n\"Platform DV\"\nFrequency: 12,207 MHz \nPolarization: Horizontal (H) \nTransmission standard: DVB-S2 \nModulation: 8PSK \nSymbol rate: 27,500 \nFEC: 2/3\n\nIn February 2010, Platform HD and its technological partners – General Satellite and Samsung Electronics – announced at the International professional exhibition CSTB 2010, they began working over the first 3D television project in Russia. However, the 3D channel is currently at a preparatory stage.\n"}
{"id": "49322117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49322117", "title": "Playing Cards Act", "text": "Playing Cards Act\n\nThe Playing Cards Act is a law in Thailand that prohibits individuals from owning more than 120 playing cards that have not been registered by the Excise Department. The current law was passed in 1943, superseding previous acts. The Playing Cards Acts are part of Thailand's strict anti-gambling laws dating back to 1935. To ensure legal possession of playing cards, under Section 12 of the law, a competent official has the power to enter anywhere between sunrise and sunset to conduct a search.\n\nDespite strict laws governing playing cards, Thailand has a long history of card playing. To meet the demand for cards and to control their availability, under the aegis of the Excise Department of the Thai Finance Ministry, a state enterprise called the Playing Cards Factory was authorised in 1938. The factory produces over 400,000 decks of cards per month. A factory-produced brochure shows the card brands manufactured by the factory. The Playing Cards Factory also serves as a printer for the Thai government.\n\n"}
{"id": "30932296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30932296", "title": "RT America", "text": "RT America\n\nRT America is an American pay television channel based in Washington, D.C., and part of the RT network, a global multilingual television news network based in Moscow, Russia, and funded by the Russian government. Much like public broadcasters PBS in the USA and BBC in the UK, RT America has studios and bureaus in New York City, Miami, and Los Angeles. The channel is the home and the production base of RT's U.S.-based programs.\n\nRT America focuses on covering news in the United States from a Russian perspective. Programs are hosted by American journalists. Similarly, most guests are American (and sometimes Canadian) activists, academics, speakers and analysts with alternative perspectives on \"mainstream\" issues. The channel covers issues that see lesser coverage in the mainstream media, such as using non-GMO ingredients in foods, capitalism, growing wealth inequality, corruption in politics, peace and environmental issues. It maintains a separate schedule of programs each weekday from 4 p.m. to 12 midnight Eastern Time, and like its counterpart in the UK, it simulcasts RT International at all other times.\n\nRT America is the channel for RT content delivery to the United States subscription providers. The channel is also available on Canadian pay TV providers. In addition, the channel is also available worldwide through various means including: online through RT's primary website, Pluto.tv, mobile phone apps, and channel apps on platforms such as Roku and Apple TV.\n\nThe channel is registered as a \"foreign agent\" with the United States Department of Justice under the Foreign Agents Registration Act. A 2017 report by the United States Intelligence Community characterized RT as \"The Kremlin’s principal international propaganda outlet\" and said that RT America had been set up as an autonomous nonprofit organization \"to avoid the Foreign Agents Registration Act\".\n\nThe channel was launched in February 2010 as RT was looking to increase its footprint. It was launched along with Rusiya Al-Yaum in 2007, the Spanish language channel RT Actualidad in 2009, and the RT Documentary channel in 2011. On June 13, 2013, RT previewed Larry King's new Thursday evening political talk show \"Politicking with Larry King\" with a discussion of Edward Snowden's leaking of the PRISM surveillance program. King's programs on RT America are produced by Ora TV. RT later added notable figures such as former Governor of Minnesota Jesse Ventura and Ed Schultz, formerly of MSNBC, as hosts in primetime. Schultz died in 2018.\n\nIn the wake of the alleged Russian meddling in the U.S. elections and the subsequent investigation into the matter, on November 13, 2017, the United States Department of Justice insisted that RT America register as a \"foreign agent\" under the Foreign Agent Registration Act (FARA). On the same day, RT's editor in chief, Margarita Simonyan, said that it would comply with the demand in order to avoid further legal action by the U.S. government, and registered the company as a foreign agent. Under FARA, RT is required to disclose financial information. The network's congressional press credentials were revoked following the network's registration as a foreign agent.\n\nOn March 4, 2014, \"Breaking the Set\" host Abby Martin (whose show was at the time produced by RT America), speaking directly to her viewing audience during the show's closing statement, said that even though she worked for RT, she was against Russia's intervention in Ukraine. She said that \"what Russia did is wrong\", as she is against intervention by any nation into other countries' affairs. Later, Martin asserted that RT still supported her despite her differences of opinion with the Russian government. RT's press office suggested that Martin would be sent to Crimea and responded to accusations of propaganda, stating \"the charges of propaganda tend to pop up every time a news outlet, particularly RT, dares to show the side of events that does not fit the mainstream narrative, regardless of the realities on the ground. This happened in Georgia, this is happening in Ukraine\".\n\nGlenn Greenwald said that American media elites love to mock Russian media, especially RT, as being a source of shameless pro-Putin propaganda, where free expression is strictly barred. Agreeing the \"network has a strong pro-Russian bias\", he suggested that Martin's action \"remarkably demonstrated what 'journalistic independence' means\".\n\nOn March 5, 2014, RT America anchor Liz Wahl resigned on air, claiming RT was a propaganda machine for Vladimir Putin. She was recorded as sayingI cannot be part of a network funded by the Russian government that whitewashes the actions of Putin. I am proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth. And that is why, after this newscast, I am resigning.\n\nWahl stated that what \"broke\" her was that RT censored a question from her interview with Ron Paul about \"Russia's \"intervention\" in Ukraine\". In response, RT released a statement: \"When a journalist disagrees with the editorial position of his or her organization, the usual course of action is to address those grievances with the editor, and, if they cannot be resolved, to quit like a professional. But when someone makes a big public show of a personal decision, it is nothing more than a self-promotional stunt. We wish Liz the best of luck on her chosen path\". In a March 2014 \"Politico\" article, Wahl expanded on that statement, saying, \"For about two and a half years. I’d looked the other way as the network smeared America for the sake of making the Kremlin look better by comparison, while it sugarcoated atrocities by one brutal dictator after another.\"\n\nWhen asked about a clip of her interviewing a guest on RT by Brian Stelter, host of CNN's \"Reliable Sources\", Wahl responded,\nOn January 12, 2017, during a live House of Representatives debate on the Securities and Exchange Commission C-SPAN 1's live broadcast was suddenly interrupted by a cut in of RT America. C-SPAN explained the interruption as a technical malfunction blaming it on an internal routing error which moved the RT America feed from an internal monitor within C-SPAN used to monitor the network alongside others to the broadcast feed for C-SPAN 1.\n\nRT stated that while it was testing its systems in preparation for the inauguration of Donald Trump, its signal was \"mistakenly routed onto the primary encoder feeding C-SPAN 1's signal to the internet, rather than to an unused backup.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933246", "title": "Shochiku", "text": "Shochiku\n\nThe company was founded in 1895 as a kabuki production company, which makes it the oldest company in Japan involved in film production, although Nikkatsu is older as a pure film studio. Founded by the brothers Takejirō Ōtani (大谷竹次郎) and Matsujirō Shirai (白井松次郎), it was named “Matsutake” in 1902 after the combined \"kunyomi\" reading of the \"kanji\" \"take\" (bamboo) and \"matsu\" (pine) from their names, reflecting the traditional three symbols of happiness: bamboo, pine, and plum. The \"onyomi\" reading of \"Shōchiku\" first appeared in 1920 with the founding of the film production subsidiary \"Shōchiku Kinema Gōmei-sha\".\n\nShochiku grew quickly in the early years, expanding its business to many other Japanese live theatrical styles, including \"Noh\" and \"Bunraku\", and established a near monopoly due to its ownership of theaters, as well as \"kabuki\" and \"shimpa\" drama troupes.\n\nThe company began making films in 1920, about a decade after its main rival Nikkatsu. The company sought to break away from the prevailing pattern of \"jidai-geki\" and to emulate Hollywood standards. It was the first film studio to abandon the use of female impersonators and brought new ideas, including the star system and the sound stage to Japan. It built its main studio at Kamata, between Tokyo and Yokohama, and hired Henry Kotani, a Japanese who had worked in Hollywood as an actor and cameraman to direct its first film, \"Island Woman\" (\"Shima no Onna\", 1920). It also hired the prominent theater director Kaoru Osanai to head a school at the studio, which produced the film \"Souls on the Road\" (1921), a film directed by Minoru Murata which is considered \"the first landmark film in Japanese history\".\n\nHowever, Shochiku's early history was difficult, as audiences preferred the more action-packed \"jidai-geki\" historical swashbucklers over the shinpa melodramas, and its Kamata studios were destroyed by the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, forcing a temporary relocation to Kyoto.\n\nWith the reopening of its Kamata studios, Shochiku also introduced the \"shomin-geki\" genre, with stories reflecting the lives of the lower-middle urban classes. These dramas proved immensely popular, and marked the start of the careers of many prominent directors (including Ozu, Naruse, and Hiroshi Shimizu) and actors (including Kinuyo Tanaka).\n\nIn 1931, Shochiku released the first “talkie” made in Japan: \"The Neighbor's Wife and Mine\" \"(Madamu to nyōbō\", 1930). Filming became increasing difficult at the Kamata studios during the 1930s with the rapid industrialization of the surrounding area with munitions factories and metal foundries, and Shochiku decided to close the studio and relocate to Ofuna, near Kamakura in 1936. The following year, Shochiku Kinema was merged with its parent company, Shochiku Entertainment, and adopted the new name of Shochiku Corporation.\n\nDuring the war years, Shochiku's President, Shiro Kido, helped establish the Dai Nippon Eiga Kyokai (Greater Japan Film association), whose purpose was to coordinate the industry's efforts with Japanese government policy. From the mid-1930s until 1945, the films produced by Shochiku and other Japanese movie companies were propagandistic.\n\nAfter the surrender of Japan, Kido and Shochiku's co-founder Otani were arrested and charged with Class-A war crimes by the Allied occupation authorities.\n\nIn 1953, after the end of the occupation, Kido returned to Shochiku and revived the melodramatic style of films which had been a Shochiku trademark in the pre-war era. Directors associated with Shochiku in this era included Ozu, Keisuke Kinoshita, Noboru Nakamura and Hideo Oba. Many of the films during the 1950s were aimed primarily at female audiences. In particular, Hideo Oba’s three-part “What is Your Name?” (Kimi no na wa?, 1953) was the most commercially successful film of the period. Ozu's \"Tokyo Story\", made in 1953, later earned considerable accolades, being selected in the 2012 Sight & Sound international critics poll as the third best film of all time\n\nBy the start of the 1960s, Shochiku’s films were criticized as “old-fashioned” with the popularity of rival Nikkatsu’s \"Taiyo-zoku\" youth-orientated movies. The studio responded by launching the Japanese New Wave (\"Nuberu bagu\") which also launched the career of Nagisa Oshima among others, though Oshima soon went independent; the films of Oshima and other film makers were not financially successful and the company changed its policies.\n\nHowever, the growing threat of television led to the bankruptcy of Shochiku’s competitors, Shintoho in 1961 and Daiei in 1971, whereas Nikkatsu and Toei turned to gangster movies and soft pornography to maintain attendance. Shochiku continued to maintain its family-orientated audience largely due to the phenomenal success of the \"Otoko wa Tsurai yo\" series directed by Yoji Yamada from 1969 through 1997. However, with the death of its star Kiyoshi Atsumi, the series came to an end, and the company faced increasing financial difficulties.\n\nThe Ofuna studio was briefly transformed into a theme park, Kamakura Cinema World, but this was closed in 1998 and the site was sold off in 2000 to Kamakura Women's College.\n\nSince that time, Shochiku has relied on its film studio and backlot in Kyoto.\n\nYamada’s “The Twilight Samurai” (Tasogare Seibei, 2002) was nominated for an Oscar as Best Foreign Language Picture.\n\nShochiku has also served as a distributor of theatrical anime. Major titles have included the \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" films, \"Mobile Suit Gundam\" movies, \"\", \"Piano no Mori\", \"Ghost in the Shell\", \"\", \"\", \"Sword of the Stranger\", \"\" and \"Jungle Emperor Leo\".\n\n\"as of October 2015\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32032626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32032626", "title": "Sidehatch Entertainment Group", "text": "Sidehatch Entertainment Group\n\nSidehatch Entertainment Group (SEG) is a Boston-based music company with brands in concert and festival promotion, marketing, industry consulting, tour bus rentals, software development and client-based services including presentation, performance, and organization.\n\nSEG was founded in 2004 by Ben Maitland-Lewis, whilst attending Berklee College of Music.\n\nPast SEG clients include Wilco, Newport Folk Festival, Daniel Lanois, Piebald, The PTown Festival, Boston Urban Music Project and Bowery Presents.\n\nInternet radio podcast available on iTunes featuring music from SEG artists, interviews with major label artists and professionals such as Fat Mike (NOFX), Bryn Bennett, (Bang Camaro), and Enter Shikari.\n\nThe SEG crew overhauled a 19-passenger shuttle bus, creating an eco-friendly grease burning tour bus, enabling bands to get on the road whilst avoiding the expense of gas prices.\nThe SEG office, located in Charlestown, Boston, shares space with a live venue and recording studio frequented by local Boston as well as touring acts.\n\nFounded in 2009 by Ben Maitland-Lewis and Chris Cave of Sidehatch, Indie Ambassador is a software development company currently in pre-beta, slated to launch during 2011 with a new platform geared towards independent artists. Though not yet released, the platform is 'intended to create a horizontal playing field for bands seeking to do business.'\n\nIndie Ambassador TV, a YouTube channel and an internet blog presented by Indie Ambassador (see above), is designed to feature performances and interviews from a variety of artists who represent the growing trend for independence in the entertainment industry.\n\nBen Maitland-Lewis and Christopher Thomas of Sidehatch Entertainment lead an 8th Grade Academy apprenticeship program (in addition to a college-level internship program) on CD Business. They teach students the fundamentals of creating a Business Plan, a Marketing Plan, how to identify their target audience, pitch the project, and produce a CD to be sold to their local communities and businesses. The money raised from these exercises is invested through the Summit Group and goes to the Alumni Scholarship Fund for the student’s college tuition.\n\n"}
{"id": "42602914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42602914", "title": "Speechless (2012 film)", "text": "Speechless (2012 film)\n\nSpeechless () is a 2012 Hong Kong — mainland China film, directed by Simon Chung, about a mute Frenchman who is found naked by the banks of a river in Wuhan in mainland China. He is rescued and sent to a local hospital where he is treated by a male nurse who cares for him and later discovers the secrets of his past.\n\n\"Speechless\" is the third feature film by director Simon Chung. His previous films were \"Innocent\", released in 2005, and \"End of Love\", in 2009.\n\nThe film premiered at the BFI 26th London Lesbian and Gay Film Festival, on 28 March 2012, and contains brief full-frontal male nudity.\n\nA man is found naked by the side of a river in Wuhan in mainland China. His name is Luke, but he appears to be unable to speak, and is sent to a local hospital for diagnosis. Unable to determine the cause of Luke's condition, the hospital decides that he must be sent elsewhere. Soon, Luke's male nurse, Xiao Jiang, discovers that his superiors have decided to transfer Luke to a mental asylum. He then decides that he must rescue him and smuggle him out to his uncle's village, where they will have to evade capture from the local police.\n\nSlowly, the reason for Luke's speechlessness becomes clear. Xiao Jiang discovers that Luke had previously had a romantic affair with a young male university student, called Han Dong, whom he had met at the university campus, together with Han Dong's girlfriend, Xiao Ning. Xiao Jiang accidentally discovers a secret that provides a key to Luke's past, enabling him to subsequently track down Xiao Ning to find out more. Although she proves to be unhelpful and deceitful, he begins to be able to piece together the mystery of Luke's inability to speak. He learns that Luke's romantic relationship with Han Dong had been discovered by Xiao Ning, who is a devout Christian, and had decided to punish her boyfriend by 'outing' him and publicly humiliating him at church. During Xiao Jiang's unravelling of this mystery, Luke suddenly disappears from the accommodation he had secretly shared with Xiao Jiang. As a result, Xiao Jiang asks for the help of a female friend, Lan, to try to locate Luke, and help resolve once and for all the central mystery of Luke's inability to speak.\n\n\"Speechless\" was filmed in secret in mainland China: in the small city of Shantou, on the East coast of Guangdong Province, and in the northern countryside of Guangdong, in Southern China. The university campus scene, introducing one of the film's most important characters, Han Dong, and his girlfriend, Xiao Ning, was filmed at Shantou University.\n\nThe man playing the role of Han Dong is mainland China model, actor and magician Jian Jiang, who is from Guangzhou, while the woman playing his girlfriend, Xiao Ning, is Indonesian-born and Australian-educated actress Yung Yung Yu. Both of the main actors, Pierre-Matthieu Vital and Qilun Gao, are indirect friends of the film's director, Simon Chung. Vital, who plays Luke, is from France, but lives and works in Guangzhou and regularly visits Hong Kong, where he first met Simon Chung. Vital is not a fluent speaker of Mandarin Chinese, and so Chung had to help train him to speak his lines. The actor playing Vital's attentive nurse, Xiao Jiang, is Beijing actor Qilun Gao, who had previously appeared in another Hong Kong film.\n\nAs filming in China was unofficial, the film was unable to secure a theatrical release in its country of production, although it has been screened once in China, to students at Shantou University, and released in cinemas across Hong Kong. Chung says he wanted his film to explore both a Western perspective of China as well as a Chinese perspective of the West.\n\nThe inspiration for the film came from a real-life case known as the “Piano Man,” in which a man washed up off the eastern coast of England several years ago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16284496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16284496", "title": "Sustainable Tourism CRC", "text": "Sustainable Tourism CRC\n\nSustainable Tourism Cooperative Research Centre (STCRC), headquartered in Gold Coast, Queensland, was an Australian Cooperative Research Centre established by the Australian Government's Cooperative Research Centres Program to establish a competitive and dynamic sustainable tourism industry in Australia. It ceased to operate on 30 June 2010.\n\nSTCRC is a not-for-profit company owned by its industry, government and university partners. STCRC stands as the world’s largest travel and tourism research centre.\n\nSTCRC was established under the Australian Government's Cooperative Research Centres Program to underpin the development of a dynamic, internationally competitive, and sustainable tourism industry. \nSince its inception the STCRC has supported over 170 PhD scholars through a suite of scholarships and the provision of a Career Development Program. STCRC currently supports over 90 postgraduate students. All are of exceptional academic standard. Most hold a first class honours degree and many have also received university awards for excellence. All supplementary scholarship holders also hold an APA or university-equivalent scholarship.\n\nSTCRC's aims are the development and management of intellectual property (IP) to deliver innovation to business, community, and government enhancing environmental, economic and social sustainability of tourism – one of the world's largest, fastest growing industries.\n\nIn doing so, STCRC aims to develop Australia's long-term tourism research capactities through a vigorous postgraduate research education programme. Presently this programme has produced a number of PhD students and the program is supported by scholarships for students in industry-designed projects, and by developing and distributing education and training products.\n\nThe Commercialisation of STCRC research, sustainability oriented technologies and certification programs is done through EC3 Global (now called EarthCheck) which is wholly owned by the STCRC. EarthCheck provides an array of programs and services for companies, communities and other interest groups to set and achieve sustainability targets. With origins leading back to 1987, EarthCheck's research encompasses 250 tourism and environmental sustainability leaders in 16 universities. EarthCheck's influence has grown to encompass hundreds of projects, creating a strong market presence in over 50 countries.\n\nThere are currently 16 Australian universities who are partners with the STCRC, these are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "761409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761409", "title": "Suzan-Lori Parks", "text": "Suzan-Lori Parks\n\nSuzan-Lori Parks is an American playwright, screenwriter, musician and novelist. Her 2001 play \"Topdog/Underdog\" won the Pulitzer Prize for drama in 2002; Parks is the first African American woman to achieve this honor for drama.\n\nParks was born in Fort Knox, Kentucky. She grew up with two siblings in a military family. Parks enjoyed writing poems and songs and even created a newspaper with her brother, called the \"Daily Daily\". In 1974 her father, a career officer in the United States Army, was stationed in West Germany where she attended middle school and attended German high school. The experience showed her \"what it feels like to be neither white nor black, but simply foreign\". After returning to the United States Parks lived and attended school in several states such as Kentucky, Texas, California, North Carolina, Maryland, and Vermont. Parks says her constant relocation could have influenced her writing. She graduated high school at The John Carroll School in 1981 while her father was stationed in Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland.\n\nIn high school, Parks was discouraged from studying literature due to a teacher criticising her spelling. However, upon reading Virginia Woolf's \"To the Light House\", Parks found herself veering away from her initial interest in chemistry, gravitating towards writing. Parks attended and graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1985 with a B.A. in English and German literature while a member of Phi Beta Kappa. She studied under James Baldwin, who encouraged her to become a playwright. James Baldwin describes Parks during this time as, \"an utterly astounding and beautiful creature who may become one of the most valuable artists of our time.\" Parks then studied acting for a year at Drama Studio London in order to better understand the stage.\n\nParks credits the impact of Mount Holyoke on her career later in life. Since acting at the Drama Studio, Suzan-Lori Parks has received 11 awards, being the first female African-American to receive the Pulitzer Prize for her play \"Topdog/Underdog\" in 2002. She has also received a number of grants including the MacArthur Foundation \"Genius\" Grant in 2001, the same year as the production of her play \"Topdog/Underdog\".\n\nWhile she was an undergraduate, her Mount Holyoke English professor Mary McHenry introduced Parks to James Baldwin. Parks was initially opposed to theater, thinking that it was \"where a lot of people with too much attitude wore funny clothes and funny little costumes, and they talked with funny little voices even though they were from, like, New York or New Jersey. And I didn't respect that.\" Parks began to take classes with Baldwin and, at his behest, began to write plays. She was still out of touch with theater; the only plays she was familiar with were those of Shakespeare, only because she was a German/English major. Parks also noted that she was inspired by Wendy Wasserstein, a 1971 Mount Holyoke graduate who won the Pulitzer in 1989 for her play \"The Heidi Chronicles\". Parks also credited another Mount Holyoke professor, Leah Blatt Glasser, with her success.\n\nParks' first screenplay was for Spike Lee's 1996 film \"Girl 6\". She later worked with Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Productions on screenplays for \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\" (2005) and \"The Great Debaters\" (2007).\n\nParks is often noted for her unique voice in the way she experiments and explores with language and dialect, stating how she tries to capture emotion and expression through language: \"The difference between 'k' and 'o.k.' is not just what one might call Black English versus standard English, for example... It's just getting more specific, letting the words hold the emotion. Instead of some parenthetical stage direction.\"\nShe is a winner of the 2017 Poets, Essayists and Novelists (PEN) America Literary Awards in the category Master American Dramatist. She received the 2018 Steinberg Distinguished Playwright Award. This biennial award is given to \"established playwrights whose body of work has made significant contributions to the American theatre.\"\n\nAlthough \"Betting on the Dust Commander\" was not the first play Parks wrote, it was the first of her plays to be produced. Her first play \"The Sinner's Place\", which she wrote for her senior project at Mount Holyoke, was rejected for production by her college's drama department as they considered it too experimental since she wanted to have dirt on the stage during the performance. When her second play, \"Betting on the Dust Commander,\" first premiered, it ran for three nights in a bar in Manhattan's Lower East Side called \"Gas Station.\" It is a short, one-act play set in Kentucky, centering around the lives of a couple, Mare and Lucius, who have been married for 110 years. Parks's unique voice is displayed throughout the text via her use of specific dialect and incorporation of the sounds of sniffling and sneezing as part of the dialogue. The play's title comes from the horse that won the Kentucky Derby in 1970, Dust Commander. As the play goes on, we discover that Dust Commander's Derby is responsible for bringing Mare and Lucius together, and through the couple's discussion of him they think back over their many years of memories together. The motif of dust along with many of the play's lines are intentionally repeated throughout the text, in addition to this Parks does not give the audience any information on how these two characters have managed to live for so long, in this way she destabilizes any linear sense of memory and time. Parks complicates the audience's view of history, relationships, and the past; some argue that Parks's incorporation of these elements and the repetitive style of the text is reminiscent of African rituals and the way that their retelling of stories often incorporate the past in a literal manner. \n\nOne of her best-known works is \"Topdog/Underdog\". This play marked a departure from the heightened language she usually wrote. Parks is an admirer of Abraham Lincoln and believed he left a legacy for descendants of slaves. \"Topdog/Underdog\" explains what that legacy is. It tells the story of two African-American brothers: Lincoln and Booth. Lincoln works at a boardwalk arcade, dressing up like Abraham Lincoln and letting the tourists shoot him with plastic guns. He got this job because he could be paid less than the white man who had the job before. Parks does not judge Lincoln in this play, but rather enjoys bringing him into the other characters' lives and seeing how they are affected. She said, \"Lincoln is the closest thing we have to a mythic figure. In days of Greek drama, they had Apollo and Medea and Oedipus – these larger than life figures that walked the earth and spoke – and they turned them into plays. Shakespeare had kings and queens that he fashioned into his stories. Lincoln, to me, is one of those.\" Parks also believes that Lincoln \"created an opening with that hole in his head.\" She makes the case that everything we do has to pass through everything else, like the eye of a needle. She says we have all passed through the hole in Lincoln's head on our journey to whatever lies ahead. Like many of her other plays, \"Topdog/Underdog\" takes her characters on a quest to find out who they are and to examine the stories and experiences that have shaped their lives. More than anything, she believes that we have an important relationship with the past.\n\nParks decided that she wanted to give herself the task of writing 365 plays in 365 days, hence her play \"365 Plays/365 Days\". This decision was made shortly after one of her books, \"Getting Mother's Body\", was published. She kept herself on schedule and succeeded. She wrote anywhere she had to: on the road, hotel rooms, and modes of transportation. The end result has been produced by more than 700 theaters around the world.\n\nThe plays were presented by 725 performing arts groups, taking turns until the entire cycle was performed. The performances started in 2006, and included venues such as the Denver Center Theatre Company, colleges in England and Australia and the Steel City Theatre Company in Pueblo, Colorado. Other venues were the Steppenwolf Theatre Company and the Goodman Theatre in Chicago, and the Center Theater Group in Los Angeles. The plays were presented at the Public Theater, New York City in November 2006, directed by Michael Greif.\n\n\"Father Comes Home From the Wars, Parts 1, 2 & 3\" premiered Off-Broadway at the Public Theater on March 14, 2014 and closed on March 22, 2014 in a developmental production. Directed by Jo Bonney, the cast featured Sterling K. Brown (Hero), Peter Jay Fernandez (Oldest Old Man), Russell G. Jones (Leader/Runaway), and Jacob Ming-Trent (Runaway slave / Odyssey Dog / Fourth). The play returned to the Public Theater on October 14, 2014 and ran to December 7, 2014, with the same director and cast. Jacob Ming-Trent won the 2015 Lucille Lortel Award for Outstanding Featured Actor in a Play and Parks won the 2015 Obie Award for playwriting presented by the American Theater Wing. The play, which takes place during the American Civil War, is presented in three parts: Part 1, A Measure of a Man; Part 2, The Battle in the Wilderness; and Part 3, The Union of My Confederate Parts. From September 15 to October 22, 2016 the play had its London premiere at the Royal Court in a transfer of the Public Theatre production directed by Jo Bonney. The cast featured Steve Toussaint, Nadine Marshall, Leo Wringer, Sibusiso Mamba, Tom Bateman, and Jimmy Akingbola.\n\nThe play was a finalist for the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for Drama. The Pulitzer committee wrote: \"A distinctive and lyrical epic about a slave during the Civil War that deftly takes on questions of identity, power and freedom with a blend of humor and dignity.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2001, Parks married blues musician Paul Oscher. They divorced in 2011. She is currently engaged to Christian Konopka. They have a child now.\n\nParks noted in an interview that her name is spelled with a \"Z\" as the result of a misprint early in her career:\n\nShe teaches playwriting at Tisch School of the Arts in the Rita & Burton Goldberg Department of Dramatic Writing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35906174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35906174", "title": "Talking Tom and Friends", "text": "Talking Tom and Friends\n\nTalking Tom and Friends (Known as Talking Friends until Late 2014) is a media franchise created and owned by Outfit7 Limited. The franchise focuses on various mobile apps involving anthropomorphic animal characters repeating things said by the user. The first app, \"Talking Tom Cat\", launched in July 2010. As of June 2018, the apps have achieved more than 8 billion downloads.\n\n\nTalking Friends was the first \"Talking Tom\" animated web series. It was produced by Disney Interactive Studios, and ran on YouTube from 8 June to 31 August 2012 for 10 episodes.\n\nOutfit7 Limited launched an animated series called \"Talking Tom and Friends\" in 2015, based on the antics of Talking Tom and his Friends. The show is produced by the Austrian animation-studio 'arx anima'.\n\n\"Talking Tom Shorts\" is an ongoing web series. Unlike the TV series, the characters do not have dialogue. It was released to YouTube starting March 13, 2014.\n\"Minis\" is a South Korean-American animated web series featuring Talking Tom and his friends. The characters are presented in 2D cartoons, and without any particular language dialogue. It is developed and produced by Outfit7 and Plenus.\nThe Talking Tom and Friends brand has expanded beyond second screen entertainment in the years since its launch in 2010. There is now branded merchandise, YouTube music videos, an animated web series and a 3D animated series.\n\nTalking Tom and Talking Angela's music video for their single \"You Get Me\", created in cooperation with Walt Disney Records/Hollywood Records, has received over 330 million views on YouTube as of November 2017. Talking Angela has also recorded her first solo song called ‘That's Falling in Love’.\n\nTalking Tom and Friends launched a range of interactive toys called Superstar in 2012. The plush toys talk and interact with multiple Talking Tom and Friends apps, as well as with each other, using an advanced voice recognition system.\n\n\"My Talking Tom\" had over 11 million downloads and was the top games app in 135 countries worldwide within 10 days of its launch.\n\nThe \"Talking Tom and Friends\" YouTube channel has over 8.1 million subscribers and 2.4 billion views as of August 2018.\n\n\"Talking Tom\" was featured in the 2016 film \"Nine Lives\".\n\nThe My Talking Tom app won the award for \"Best iPad Game: Kids, Education & Family\" at the 2014 Tabby Awards, the global competition for the best tablet app.\n\nMy Talking Tom was also voted the 2014 Tabby Award Users’ Choice favorite in two categories, \"Best iPad Game: Kids, Education & Family\" and \"Best Android Game: Puzzle, Cards & Family\".\n\nThe Talking Tom and Talking Ben Talk Back plush toys won the Best Girls Licensed Toy award at the Australian Toy Association Awards in 2012.\n\nThe \"Talking Tom and Friends\" television series won \"Best Animated Series\" at the 2016 Cablefax Awards. This announcement greenlit season 2 of the series in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246407", "title": "The Bugaloos", "text": "The Bugaloos\n\nThe Bugaloos is an American children's television series, produced by brothers Sid and Marty Krofft, that aired on NBC on Saturday mornings from 1970 to 1972. Reruns of the show aired in daily syndication from 1978 to 1985 as part of the \"Krofft Superstars\" package with six other Krofft series.\n\nThe show features a musical group composed of four British-accented teenagers, who live in fictional Tranquility Forest. They wear insect-themed outfits with antennae and wings that allow them to fly, although they are occasionally shown flying on surfboards. They are constantly beset by the evil machinations of Benita Bizarre, played by comedian Martha Raye. Bizarre, being untalented and ugly herself, is covetous of the Bugaloos' musical prowess.\n\nTouted as the British version of \"The Monkees,\" \"The Bugaloos\" attracted more than 5,000 young actors and actresses to audition for the show's four lead roles, each having to demonstrate aptitude in dance, singing, and acting. Among those auditioning in spring 1970 were Elton John's future manager John Reid, and Phil Collins, who joined the art rock band Genesis later that year.\n\nReid and Collins had been two of the three finalists for the role of \"I.Q.\" given to Scottish musician John McIndoe. \"If one of those guys had gotten it instead of me, rock-'n'-roll history might have changed,\" McIndoe later joked. \"Whenever I see them, I say, 'Hey guys, you were lucky you didn't get the part.'\"\n\nThe show was taped in Los Angeles, California. Seventeen episodes of the series were produced. Like its predecessor \"H.R. Pufnstuf\" (1969), \"The Bugaloos\" ran for only one season (1970–1971), with reruns airing the following year (1971–1972). Following production of the first, and only, season, the Kroffts tried shooting for a second season, and also had a movie deal in the works with Columbia Pictures. However, miscommunication between the Kroffts and the actors resulted in them returning to England that December against the Kroffts' wishes. As a result, a potential second season was ultimately scrapped, along with plans for a movie which was shelved due to the bankruptcy of Columbia Pictures.\n\nAlthough the show featured British actors, it was not screened on British television.\n\nLike most children's television shows of the era, \"The Bugaloos\" contained a laugh track. Cast members John Philpott and Caroline Ellis discussed its usage while viewing an episode of the show for DVD commentary.\n\nThough peace-loving and hippie-like, The Bugaloos are pursued by the ugly, evil, jealous old crone named Benita Bizarre who lives in a gigantic jukebox, and uses it to broadcast her own brand of blaring, obnoxious, unpleasant \"music.\" A dreadful singer, she is furious at the popularity of The Bugaloos's more melodic, upbeat sound, and she plots elaborate, unsuccessful schemes to destroy or enslave them. She frequently makes use of a powerful ultrasonic weapon called the Stereo Zapper, which can render its victim unconscious in seconds.\n\nActor / Character Name / Role In the Band\n\n\nRaye also appeared the same year in the HR Pufnstuf movie as Boss Witch. The Funky Rat costume was also used for essentially the same role (Boss Witch's Chauffeur).\n\n\nVoice characterizations for the various characters in the series were provided by Joan Gerber and Walker Edmiston.\n\nThe Bugaloos were sometimes seen traveling around in their \"Bugaloo Buggy\", a custom-built and very colorful one-of-a-kind dune buggy made specifically for the show by the famous custom car builder, George Barris.\n\nThe show's music director was Hal Yoergler, who also wrote many of the show's songs and produced the \"Bugaloos\" album released in 1970. The title song's lyrics were written by Norman Gimbel, and its music was composed by Charles Fox. Gimbel and Fox were also the songwriters of \"Killing Me Softly with His Song\" and the theme songs to films and programs such as \"Last American Hero\" (\"I Got A Name,\" sung by Jim Croce), \"Happy Days,\" \"Laverne and Shirley,\" and \"The New Adventures of Wonder Woman.\" A cover of the Bugaloos theme performed by Collective Soul is included on the 1995 tribute album \",\" produced by Ralph Sall for MCA Records.\n\nThe Bugaloos released an album in 1970 (Capitol Records ST-621), featuring studio-recorded versions of some of the songs performed on the show. The track list is as follows:\n\nSide 1\n\nSide 2\n\nOne single was released in conjunction with the album: \"For a Friend\"/\"The Senses of Our World\" (Capitol 2946). \"For a Friend\" charted as a minor hit. Billboard Bubbling Under week of December 18, 1970 #118 for one week.\n\nThe track \"Just the Memory Stays Around\" did not appear in any episode, and is available only on the LP. The LP was re-released on CD in January 2000 by Vivid Sound in Japan and in 2006 by Cherry Red Records of London.\n\nThe Bugaloos recorded 15 songs. In addition to the 11 that appear on the released album, four additional songs appeared on the television show, but remain unreleased:\n\nThe music of the Bugaloos suffered the same typecasting fate which met the music of The Partridge Family, despite excellent production values in both cases. \"Just the Memory Stays Around\", \"The Senses of Our World\" and \"Castles in the Air\" (not to be confused with other songs of the same title) deserve particular note. Their lyrics were far above typical children's television fare:\n\n<poem>\"Let your heart see the colors all around you, and the darkness that you fear will disappear... (from \"The Senses of Our World\")\"</poem><poem>\"Even when you're down on the ground, let a part of your heart reach for castles in the air... (from \"Castles in the Air\")\"</poem>\n\nThe complete \"Bugaloos\" series was released on DVD in May 2006 by Rhino Entertainment. The set contained all seventeen digitally remastered, original uncut broadcast episodes, with audio commentary on the pilot episode from creator Sid Krofft and director Tony Charmoli. Cast members John Philpott, Caroline Ellis, and John McIndoe also provided audio commentary on some episodes and participated in interviews. Also included were a video jukebox with a selection of songs from the episodes, a photo gallery, and a \"Bugaloos\" Interactive I. Q. Test, hosted by John \"I. Q.\" McIndoe.\n\nThe whole catalog is available to stream at www.qkids.com and the Qkids app in iTunes Store.\n\nAt Comic Con 2015, Sid and Marty Krofft revealed they were looking into creating an updated version of The Bugaloos as a preschool TV series. It was rumored Cyndi Lauper would play Benita Bizarre. At 2017's Comic Con Sid and Marty released a teaser trailer of the pilot produced for Nickelodeon with clips of the new series with Lise Simms as Benita Bizarre. However, during a May 2018 radio interview with creator Marty Krofft, Marty revealed that the pilot was not picked up by Nickelodeon and was scrapped. According to Marty; they are reshooting the pilot and that Randy Jackson will be involved with the music. At 2018's Comic Con Marty reconfirmed that they are reshooting The Bugaloos pilot and that this time the series won't be for preschoolers. It is unknown if it will be geared toward older kids or teenagers.\n\nThe Bugaloos are the binding childhood memory that the two main protagonists in the 2000 film \"The Tao of Steve\" discover as they begin to bond, as Syd (Greer Goodman) and Dex (Donal Logue) find out that they both had Bugaloos stickers on their respective childhood \"Josie and the Pussycats\" lunchboxes.\n\nThe Bugaloos was mentioned in an episode of Jeopardy as a question on the show in 2002\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35952680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35952680", "title": "The Doll Maker of Kiang-Ning", "text": "The Doll Maker of Kiang-Ning\n\nThe Doll Maker of Kiang-Ning (German: Der Puppenmacher von Kiang-Ning) is a 1923 German silent fantasy film directed by Robert Wiene and starring Werner Krauss, Lia Eibenschütz and Ossip Runitsch. A doll maker in China crafts a puppet which he is convinced is lifelike. He takes it to exhibit at a public event, but is outraged to find an even more convincing and beautiful doll there. It is in fact a real woman pretending to be a doll, but he becomes so obsessed he attempts to steal her and the film ends with her rescue and his tragic death.\n\nThe film had its premiere in Berlin in November 1923. It received a universally negative reception from critics who were particularly unimpressed by the attempt to portray Chinese culture using German actors. The film continues a wider theme in the director Robert Wiene's work which contrasts Western and Eastern cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47621378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47621378", "title": "The Marionettes", "text": "The Marionettes\n\nThe Marionettes (1963) (variously translated as \"The Puppets\" as well) is a puppetry play by Bahram Beyzai, and one of the most important plays of the Persian language. It has been staged numerous times in various languages around the world. Together with two subsequent plays, namely \"Evening in a Strange Land\" (1963) and \"The Story of the Hidden Moon\" (1963), \"The Marionettes\" constitutes the playwright's puppet trilogy.\n\nThe play was composed in 1962-1963 and first published in Tehran early in 1963 by the playwright in a volume along with another play of his named \"Matarsak-ha dar Shab\" (i.e. \"Scarecrows at Night\"). Later in the same year \"The Marionettes\" was again printed by the playwright; this time as the opening play of his puppet trilogy with two new puppet plays. This volume was reprinted by Negah Publishing in the spring of 1978. Finally, a revised version of the play appeared in 2003 in the first volume of Beyzai's collected works, published by Roshangaran Publishing in Tehran.\n\nGisèle Kapuscinski's English translation was published in 1987, soon to be followed by another translation into English by M. R. Ghanoonparvar and John Green in 1989, both in the United States. Still a third translation by Parvin Loloi and Glyn Pursglove appeared in Salzburg in 2005.\n\nIn \"The Marionettes\", \"the dramatis personae are of universal character, almost myth-types;\" as Yarshater explains. They include Hero, Demon, Girl and such other types as Black Man, Merchant, Poet, etc. and of course the puppeteer is ever present. The central theme is the perennial fight between Hero and Demon. Both the central theme and the characters reoccur in the two subsequent puppet plays too, and all the three pieces are \"meant to be performed by actors as well.\"\n\nThe master puppeteer sets out to amuse the audience with his puppets. He promises that the time for Hero's fight against Demon has come. But Hero, weary of unending and futile combats with Demon, avoids engagement. He loves Girl, for the sake of which he has waged an eternal battle: against himself. In the meantime, there comes the news of the appearance of a demon at the city gate. So, to urge the Hero into combat against it, three townspeople come to him imploring to break his vow. Hero will not give in. A fortuneteller girl arrives to warn him of his inevitable and imminent death. Recovering a long, dormant love and sorrow at the sight of the fair girl, Hero sets out to war against the demon. He slays his foe and is mortally wounded himself. None of the townspeople is strong enough to pick his fallen sword up. Black Man, a loyal friend to Hero, drops his gay mood and rejects master puppeteer's requests about amusing the audience.\n\nThe play has had several productions around the world in various languages.\n\nThe earliest was a television production on National Iranian Radio and Television, directed by the playwright, recorded on 19 March 1967, and first broadcast on 17 April. Mahmoud Dowlatabadi, later a prominent novelist, played the Poet in this production.\n\nThe English translation by Parvin Loloi and Glyn Pursglove was staged in England in 2004, with Jodi-Anne George as director of the British premier.\n\n\"The Marionettes\" has three different English translations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17288266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17288266", "title": "The Smurfs (comics)", "text": "The Smurfs (comics)\n\nThe Smurfs () is a Belgian comic series, created by cartoonist Peyo (pen name of Pierre Culliford). The titular creatures were introduced as supporting characters in an already established series, \"Johan and Peewit\" in 1958, and starred in their own series from 1959. Thirty \"Smurf\" comic albums have been created, 16 of them by Peyo. Originally, the \"Smurf\" stories appeared in \"Spirou\" magazine with reprints in many different magazines, but after Peyo left the publisher Dupuis, many comics were first published in dedicated \"Smurf\" magazines, which existed in French, Dutch and German. A number of short stories and one page gags have been collected in comic books next to the regular series of 30. By 2008, \"Smurf\" comics have been translated into 25 languages, and some 25 million albums have been sold. \n\nIn 1952, Peyo created a series in \"Spirou\" magazine titled \"Johan et Pirlouit\" (\"Johan and Peewit\"), set in Europe during the Middle Ages. Johan serves as a brave young page to the king, and Pirlouit (pronounced Peer-loo-ee) functions as his faithful, if boastful and cheating, midget sidekick.\n\nOn October 23, 1958, Peyo introduced a new set of characters to the \"Johan et Pirlouit\" story \"La flûte à six trous\" (tr. \"The Flute with Six Holes\"). This alone caused no great excitement, as the brave duo constantly encountered strange new people and places. This time, they had the mission of recovering a magic flute, which required some sorcery by the wizard Homnibus. And in this manner, they met a tiny, blue-skinned humanoid creature in white clothing called a \"Schtroumpf,\" followed by his numerous peers who looked just like him, with an elderly leader who wore red clothing and had a white beard called \"Papa Smurf\". The characters proved to be a huge success, and the first independent spin-off Smurf stories appeared in \"Spirou\" in 1959, together with the first merchandising.\n\nThis is the list of the original French-language comic issues. Some of them are anthologies of several stories. A number of them were translated into English by Anthea Bell and Derek Hockridge, and published by Hodder & Stoughton (Random House in the USA). The late comic artist Pascal Garray contributed to seventeen editions of \"The Smurf\" comics between 1990 and 2017. Garray last comic, \"Les Schtroumpfs et les haricots Mauves\", is scheduled to be released in September 2017.\n\n\nAlbums made after the death of Peyo, with help from his son Thierry Culliford (born 1956):\nIn the 1970s and '80s, the British children's magazine Look-In ran an original series of one-page comic-strip tales called \"Meet the Smurfs.\"\n\nIn 1982 Marvel Comics released a Three issue mini series featuring full length stories and one page \"American\" style comic strip tales featuring The Smurfs. Marvel Comics also published a large format comic book as well as six mini comic books with a full length story in each comic book.\n\nSince August 2010, Papercutz has been issuing Smurfs comics, translated by Joe Johnson. Following a special preview comic in July 2010 that contained the story \"The Smurfnapper,\" the following graphic novels have been issued to date:\n\nOther Special Books:\n\nPapercutz published \"The Smurf Submarine\" in \"Geronimo Stilton & Smurfs\" for Free Comic Book Day on May 7, 2011.\n\nIn the Belgian Comic Strip Center in Brussels the permanent exhibition brings homage to the pioneers of Belgian comics, among them Peyo. In the room dedicated to his work various objects, comic book pages, sketches... from \"The Smurfs\" comics can be seen.\n\nThe Smurfs is among the many Belgian comics characters to jokingly have a Brussels street named after them. The Rue des Sables/ Zandstraat has a commemorative plaque with the name \"Rue Schtroumpfs/ Smurfstraat\" placed under the actual street sign.\n\nIn 2003 a statue of a Smurf building a statue of Smurfette was revealed in Middelkerke. It was sculpted by Monique Mol.\n\nAt the Grasmarkt in Brussels a five metres high statue of a Smurf on a toadstool can be seen. It was sculpted by Maryline Garbe and revealed on June 25, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "34776786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34776786", "title": "Trapdoor (company)", "text": "Trapdoor (company)\n\nTrapdoor Inc. was a Canadian video game developer based in Montreal. Founded in August 2008 by Ken Schachter, the company developed \"Warp\" and co-published Polytron Corporation's \"Fez\", both in 2012. A third title, \"Heist\", was cancelled mid-development. Trapdoor dissolved in December 2012.\n\nTrapdoor was established in August 2008 by Ken Schachter, formerly chief technology officer for American Apparel and later studio manager of Gameloft Montreal. By October that year, the company also employed former game designer at Gameloft Montreal and Ubisoft Montreal, Alex Charbonneau, as lead game designer. Trapdoor stated that they would strictly follow the International Game Developers Association's developer crediting standard in their upcoming games. Their first game would be an original intellectual property for personal computers, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. By May 2011, Trapdoor employed 15 people, with Schachter managing the studio.\n\nIn November 2010, it was announced that Trapdoor had signed a publishing agreement with Electronic Arts for their game, which was announced to be \"Warp\". \"Warp\" was first released for Xbox 360 in February 2012, and Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 3 the following March. Trapdoor announced in March 2011 that they would co-publish the Polytron Corporation-developed game \"Fez\". \"Fez\" was released in April 2012 for Xbox 360. A third title, codenamed \"Heist\", entered production in early 2012, but was cancelled six months into development.\n\nTrapdoor was quitely disestablished on 16 December 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "30664453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30664453", "title": "Ultimate Parkour Challenge", "text": "Ultimate Parkour Challenge\n\nUltimate Parkour Challenge is a mini-series that premiered on October 22, 2009 on MTV featuring the six of the top parkour and freerunning competitors from around the world expressing their styles against each other in a series of themed challenges filmed in California. The series is hosted by freestyle motocross and parkour enthusiast Andy Bell, and stylish freerunner/martial artist Travis Wong. The first season's episodes aired on Thursdays at 10 pm EST on MTV with repeats airing on MTV2. While the second season's time slot moved to 11 pm EST.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34498055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34498055", "title": "Vibe rock", "text": "Vibe rock\n\nVibe rock (also called Vibe music, or simply Vibe) is a broad term consisting of music that differs in its sound, context and regional roots. Genres under the Vibe rock umbrella consist of but not limited to: Alternative, Rock, Pop Rock, Folk Rock, and Electronic. Vibe rock has been identified as a response to the often \"disempowering story telling and violent messages\" that is prevalent in today's modern popular music. \n\nVibe Rock is a musical movement that holds the belief that we can all get along, communicate, respect and harmonize with one another. A movement that allows a space for both light and dark to come together in the middle to Rock with a smile, dance with abandon and release the human spirit authentically. Because both light and dark forces want to feel strong and vibrant. Vibe Rock is that meeting place for both sides (light and dark forces) to engage in life-affirming music that helps foster strength and vibrancy. The ultimate goal of the Vibe Rock movement is to increase the awareness that we are all truly one voice of the Universe, a chorus of high and low voices that are equally important to the song, just as the dark and light colors are necessary for the painting upon the canvas to become a masterpiece. \n\nVibe Rock has been described as a diverse, non-religious musical movement dedicated to producing music that is lyrically life-affirming . \n\nA popular Vibe Rock mantra: Good Vibes in, Good Vibes out\n\nExamples of Vibe Rock artists: Shine Nine, PAX, Embrace the Waves\n"}
{"id": "1774758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1774758", "title": "Vilnius TV Tower", "text": "Vilnius TV Tower\n\nThe Vilnius TV Tower () is a tower in the Karoliniškės microdistrict of Vilnius, Lithuania. It is the tallest structure in Lithuania, and is occupied by the SC Lithuanian Radio and Television Centre ().\n\nThe tower was designed by V. Obydovas and the engineering section by K. Balėnas. The construction of the tower started on 31 May 1974 and finished on December 30, 1980. The construction was funded by the 11th Five Year Plan of the Soviet Union, which had earmarked funds for strategic investment in the then Lithuanian SSR. The weight of the whole structure is estimated at . The structure is composed of a concrete base, a long hollow reinforced concrete pipe, a reinforced concrete saucer, and a long steel spike. Radio transmitters are housed in the lower part of the concrete tower with antennas attached to the steel spike.\n\nThe observation deck from the ground houses the cafe \"Paukščių takas\" (), offers a picturesque view of the city and its surroundings, and sports a rotating platform that revolves once every 45 minutes. High-speed elevators reach the cafe from ground level in 40 seconds. On clear days, visibility can extend as far as Elektrėnai, a city approximately west, where power plants produced much of the electricity for Vilnius in Soviet times.\n\nThe TV tower played a major role in the events of 13 January 1991, when 14 unarmed civilians lost their lives and 700 were injured opposing the Soviet military seizure of the tower. A small museum dedicated to the January 1991 battle is housed on the ground floor, and various markers in the surrounding area indicate places where Lithuanian citizens died while trying to maintain the blockade against Soviet troops.\nSince 2000, the tower has been decorated to look like a Christmas tree each Christmas season. During the 2006 World Basketball Championship it was decorated with a large basketball net. Vilnius TV Tower became the biggest basketball hoop in the world during the 2011 FIBA European Basketball Championship. The hoop was 35 metres in diameter with a 40  metre-high net, assembled at a height of 170 metres. The lighting of the giant hoop took 2,560 metres of lighting cable and 545 bulbs.\nBungee jumps are available to the public from the roof of the observation deck.\n\n"}
{"id": "40265233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40265233", "title": "Window on China Theme Park", "text": "Window on China Theme Park\n\nThe Window on China Theme Park () is an amusement park in Longtan District, Taoyuan City, Taiwan.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
